- Well, good morning, everyone.。
It's nice to see everybody up here, from up here again.。
And I know that Rebecca, my wife, was here just with you。
all last month for a couple of times, and twice,。
and in an art workshop.。
And the first message she gave was--。
(audience applauding)。
Was on the topic of the power of storytelling。
and Jesus being the goat.。
And her second message was diving into。
one of the parables of the wheat and tare.。
And also, she facilitated an art workshop,。
and I really appreciated some of the artwork。
that she had photos of.。
And my favorite was one where someone made an ice cream,。
given that's my favorite thing right now.。
Time really flies, because the last time I was up here,。
I realized when I was preparing for this message。
was actually last October.。
So it's already been a little over a year.。
And for that message,。
I actually prepared one called "Lightning Our Yolks."。
If some of you are here, you remember that in Acts 15,。
I talked about how we sometimes put on additional。
individual and corporate yolks on ourselves.。
And these are the additional spiritual restrictions。
that we prescribe ourselves,。
that kind of hinder our spiritual faith journeys.。
But instead, Jesus prescribes to us。
that he is lightening our yolks,。
and that he will give us greater joy and freedom,。
because we can know that we have these lighter loads。
that we carry, and he's helping us carry them.。
At the end of the message, I mentioned that。
even though we're afforded greater freedom and greater joy,。
there's still a yolk that we have to carry.。
A lighter one, but we're still expected to maintain。
proper conduct, behavior, and live our lives。
that are, in a way, glorifying to him.。
Carrying this yolk, doing this work,。
still requires a degree of focus, intention, and discipline.。
I really appreciate coming here,。
because Pastor Mark always gives me freedom to choose。
whatever topic I wanna preach up here.。
And it wasn't my intention to actually tie in。
what I talk about today with the message。
that I prepared before, but it kinda ties in together.。
So I really kinda like that it worked out this way.。
I've been praying about what message to give,。
and the message today is what I got,。
and it happens to still connect with what I did last time.。
So anything we do, especially focused work,。
requires a level of preparation, training,。
and right mindset.。
Our message today comes from 1 Corinthians 9, 24 to 27.。
And the sermon title, as you guys saw,。
is Do You Even Lift, Brah?。
The passage today is from 1 Corinthians 9, 24 to 27,。
and I'll read it.。
I know it's a little bit small for you all,。
but I'll read it.。
Do you not know that in a race, all the runners run,。
but only one gets the prize?。
Run in such a way as to get the prize.。
Everyone who competes in the games。
goes into strict training.。
They do it to get a crown that will not last,。
but we do it to get a crown that will last forever.。
Therefore, I do not run like someone running aimlessly.。
I do not fight like a boxer beating the air.。
No, I strike a blow to my body and make it my slave。
so that after I preach to others,。
I myself will not be disqualified for the prize.。
In Rebecca's presentation and messages,。
she prepares very beautiful slides.。
I'm sorry, mine will disappoint。
because they're not nearly as elegant.。
Actually, they're the opposite.。
They're very, very crude.。
But I lean more kind of your common pop culture。
cliche visual tools.。
So hopefully some of you will appreciate.。
And I know there's a broad age and generational range here.。
Some probably as young as high school or college。
and those that might even be retired.。
And so I know that my title requires。
a little bit of explanation for those especially。
that don't know what it actually means.。
The phrase, do you even lift brah?。
Is actually a mocking question used for people。
who attempt to look or act capable in something。
but actually aren't.。
Case in point is someone like this guy, right?。
I think that he's presenting this persona of a lifter,。
very athletic, but I think some of us question。
whether or not he has the ability.。
It's often used against people who want to give,。
this phrase is often used against people。
who give the impression that they're really strong。
and athletic, but in fact, they look very foolish。
and we kind of quickly see through their kind of facade.。
Because those who actually engage in something like lifting。
or athletic training know that it requires a lot of focus。
and a lot of preparation and training.。
I don't know the closest Mandarin translation。
to this particular phrase, but I know that in Cantonese,。
there used to be something that a lot of people use。
in the movies, in Hong Kong movies.。
It's like (speaking in foreign language)。
and so that question is, do you have the qualifications?。
And actually it kind of points out to someone like,。
you kind of try to look the part of something,。
but do you actually have the backing, the credentials。
to support the persona that you're presenting?。
When I mention these ideas, I'm sure some of you have。
some memories that come to mind of your own experiences.。
In my case, I remember years ago。
when I was still going to the gym.。
I don't go to the gym anymore, I have two kids。
and I have a puppy now, so all I do is just take care。
of them and that's sufficient enough exercise for me.。
But I remember that there was a time。
when I was going to the gym and this was at Export。
on State Street and I was there for an hour with my friend。
and I was lifting weights and there was a guy that came in。
and he had full track suit, he had a headband,。
he brought his gym bag and he was ready to look like,。
well he looked like he was ready to lift,。
but in fact he sat down at the bench press。
and he pulled out a whole chicken dinner out of his bag。
with a cup of soda and he just proceeded。
to eat dinner at the gym.。
For the whole hour I was there,。
he didn't even do one exercise,。
he was just sitting and enjoying his meal.。
So that for me is like the perfect example。
of when you would use the question, do you even lift, bruh?。
Because this guy is coming in and showing his athleticism,。
but really there isn't very much of it.。
In our passage, Paul uses the visual image of running。
and this is a metaphor, an image that connects the idea。
with our own spiritual journeys, our spiritual walks.。
He says, do you not know that in a race all runners run,。
but only one gets the prize?。
Run in such a way as to get the prize.。
He's calling us to keep our faith muscles。
well conditioned and activated for the Lord's work。
and for our faith journeys.。
Paul highlights that our faith journey。
is demonstrated through action。
and not just a cognitive process that happens in our minds.。
Living out our faith is more than the mental belief。
that God exists in identifying Jesus as our savior.。
It requires a manifestation of our faith。
through our actions.。
We're not just thinking about what we know as truth,。
we're living it out.。
It's not a basic matter of belief。
through intellectual insight,。
but it's an actively engaging process。
and Paul, in our passage, uses this metaphor。
to connect this for his original audience.。
But it also really kind of ties into what we understand。
in our modern times as well.。
Paul's audience is the Corinthian church。
and the believers are in Corinth,。
which was a major Greek commercial city in his time.。
The idea of running a race was actually very familiar。
to them because they had a long history。
of holding what were known as the Isthmian Games.。
And these were the games that I think。
that our Olympics are actually modeled after.。
These games happened every two years。
and athletic as well as musical competitors。
from all of Greece would descend upon Corinth。
and compete in honor of Poseidon.。
This happened since like 582 BC,。
so by the time Paul was using this example。
of running a race, people were already familiar。
with this for centuries.。
Paul takes an idea that the Corinthians understand。
and uses it to help them visualize。
a right perspective of Christian living.。
Paul turns around the idea as well。
of this big competition being in honor of Poseidon。
and instead attributes what we do。
for God's honor and glory and for his service.。
Throughout his letter to the Corinthians,。
Paul addresses a laundry list of specific matters。
that range from addressing disorderly church conduct。
and leadership to divisions,。
to sexual immorality in the church.。
He addresses things like lawsuits among believers,。
divorce, sexual immorality.。
And I mentioned before that Corinth。
was this important city of commerce in Corinth.。
And to make a comparison, it's not unlike Hong Kong。
or New York or London.。
It was a major port city where there was a lot of trade.。
And with trade in these places,。
it wasn't just the trade of physical goods,。
but trade of physical ideas and culture。
and beliefs as well.。
And with any big city, we know there's big city problems.。
And Corinth was definitely experiencing this as well.。
The church was, by comparison to the Jewish churches。
in kind of the Israeli regions,。
not as grounded in moralistic traditions。
and that culture that they had for a very long time.。
And so with a younger church like the Corinthian church,。
you have leaders and followers that are。
just kind of understanding the outside world。
and are not as mature.。
And they're bringing in the ideas that they understand。
from their usual conditioning into the church.。
And so Paul is writing the church to address。
the deficiencies in their theology。
and their practices.。
Paul addressed topics that are very much practical.。
And he stares away from the idea, again,。
of a passive idea of our faith。
and just understanding it as a concept.。
His belief was demonstrated by him.。
Well, like looking at Abraham,。
our original kind of forefather of the faith,。
we know that God credited his faith as righteousness to him.。
But this wasn't just him believing.。
It was backed by action.。
And we know that Abraham left everything that he knew.。
He left his family, his home,。
and he went to an unknown place。
where God even called him to sacrifice his son.。
And he was obedient.。
So he didn't just believe.。
He demonstrated his belief through action.。
And what I'm saying is that genuine faith。
is exhibited through consistent action.。
And this is a way that we serve and glorify God.。
The race that Paul refers to。
is his race to fulfill the mission of God,。
to proclaim the gospel to as many people as he can。
and to save as many as he can.。
And I'm not trying to present the idea。
that, oh, we're trying to earn our way to salvation.。
We are justified as soon as we believe.。
This is a demonstration of what real faith is。
because it's consistent with how we act.。
It's not just what we say.。
I think the example of loving someone。
is a very helpful one in showing this.。
Authentic love is reinforced by how you express it.。
So if I tell my children that I love them,。
but I don't spend time with them to do the things they like,。
I don't support them, I don't encourage them,。
I can't say that my love is really genuine.。
In the same way, thinking that just belief in God is enough。
is not enough.。
We have to demonstrate it through action。
because even Satan and the demons believe in God。
and they fear him.。
If we're looking at the act of running。
as a metaphor for our faith journey,。
there are specific spiritual practices in our lives。
that then represent our spiritual muscles, so to speak.。
These are our actions like our prayer life,。
our devotions, our grounding ourselves in God's word.。
And like muscles, these areas need to be developed over time。
and conditioned as well so that we can run like an athlete,。
so that we can do the work God calls us to do.。
In our physical bodies, when our bodies are not engaged。
in activity and using our muscles, do you know what happens?。
There's something called atrophy that happens.。
The muscle starts to weaken and it starts to diminish.。
And because the body deems these muscles as non-essential。
'cause we're not using them,。
it just degenerates and fades away.。
This is especially visible, I think, in older folks。
where they're just less active and so their muscles。
begin to shrink and they just become smaller.。
But this can happen with younger folks too.。
If any of you have broken a limb, like an arm or a leg,。
and you put a cast on, and then at the end of your healing。
and you take away the cast, that arm or that leg。
on one side is gonna be smaller than the one。
on the other side because it's atrophied.。
And likewise, with our spiritual condition,。
our spiritual practices, if we don't keep engaged。
in things like reading God's word。
and grounding ourselves in prayer and fellowship。
and these type of actions, we also will begin to。
kind of degenerate in our spiritual strength。
and our spiritual muscle.。
When we engage in training and keeping ourselves。
sharp and ready, we'll be able to handle times of stress。
and even take advantage of times of opportunity.。
There's something called muscle memory.。
Some of you might know it if you guys are athletes.。
And it happens where when through repeated training。
of something, an action, your body just begins。
to know what to do in specific situations。
where you trained it to do something.。
Because your body reverts back to its conditioning。
when you might not be thinking about how to react。
in a certain situation.。
This is why athletes and soldiers train。
and train and train.。
Because in times of pressure and urgency,。
when we don't have the time to think about a certain action。
we wanna take in a situation, our body naturally,。
intuitively responds in the way that we've trained it.。
Likewise, as we engage in prayer and worship。
and grounding ourselves in God's word,。
when there are times of crises,。
we will naturally go to do what we've been training。
ourselves to do.。
We don't think maybe, we don't have the ability to think。
'cause we might be so stressed out,。
but we will naturally gravitate toward that type。
of behavior and why training is so important.。
And it's not just in times of crises.。
It could be training for times of opportunity.。
So let's say like you're on the street,。
you're at a restaurant, you meet a friend of a friend。
and they find out you're a Christian.。
They want to know more about your faith and what it means.。
If you have not been doing the practices that I mentioned,。
you may not have the ability to truly,。
in a well-fashioned way, articulate what the faith。
that you believe in actually means and is.。
And so the training is also to take advantage of opportunity.。
We need to remember that these spiritual muscles we develop。
serve the purpose of loving our God and loving our neighbors。
for advancing God's mission, his church,。
and to build up our fellow brothers and sisters.。
So these muscles that I'm talking about。
aren't for the vanity of our own self-righteousness.。
It's not for us to look in the mirror。
and to feel good about ourselves。
or to present ourselves to others.。
It's all for a purpose.。
And that purpose is to advance God's kingdom。
and to serve him and to build up his church.。
We don't engage in action for ourselves。
or for action for action's sake.。
So the second part of 1 Corinthians 9, 24,。
Paul says, "Run in such a way as to get the prize."。
There's a particular direction, a trajectory,。
and goal we're supposed to train and aim for。
when we're doing our training and our conditioning。
and our running of the race.。
Paul runs with a strong strategic purpose in his mind.。
As he says, "I do not run like someone running aimlessly."。
There's an objective to his actions.。
The problem is that we can get trapped。
in the cycle of keeping ourselves busy。
and doing very churchy things。
because we feel that that equals making progress.。
And like this example of the hamster,。
like he's just running and running and running。
and probably feels like he's going somewhere,。
but he's really going nowhere.。
And a lot of organizations today。
and in a lot of work meetings,。
they kind of go on and on。
and you might have meeting after meeting after meeting.。
And there are times when I've been in work。
where I feel like it's death by meeting.。
Like there's just meeting, meeting, meeting.。
And sometimes people feel like just because you're meeting。
and meeting for long periods of time,。
that there's progress.。
But that's not true.。
I mean, there are probably some of you that have been in,。
I know Pastor Mark has agendaless meetings.。
And this could be for work and it could be for church。
and it goes for hours and hours and hours.。
At the end of it, you're exhausted and you wonder,。
what did we actually accomplish?。
It doesn't seem like we accomplished anything,。
but some folks feel like by the pure fact。
that we're together, that some progress is made.。
And we need to not confuse the flurry of movement。
or busyness as actual progress.。
Paul lays out a very specific goal in his running.。
His main purpose is to advance the gospel。
to as many as he can.。
He discusses this in the section。
right before our focus passage here.。
So we're focusing on 1 Corinthians 9, 24 to 27,。
but in verses 19 to 23, I'm not gonna put it up,。
but I'll just read it out loud.。
He says, "Though I am free and belong to no one,。
"I have made myself a slave to everyone,。
"to win as many as possible.。
"To the Jews, I became like a Jew to win the Jews.。
"To those under the law, I became like one under the law,。
"though I myself am not under the law,。
"so as to win those under the law.。
"To those not having the law,。
"I became like one not having the law,。
"though I am not free from God's law,。
"but am under Christ's law,。
"so as to win those not having the law.。
"To the weak, I became weak to win the weak.。
"I have become all things to all people,。
"so that by all possible means, I might save some.。
"I do all this for the sake of the gospel。
"that I may share in its blessings."。
Paul is saying that he will do whatever it takes。
to achieve his goal, to proclaim God's word,。
and save as many people as he can.。
He's willing to become a slave and serve.。
He's willing to become a Jew and take on Jewish traditions.。
He's willing to become weak and forgo the privilege。
that he has as a Roman citizen in his particular context.。
He's willing to become one apart from the law,。
not having the law, and eat and engage in activities。
with Gentiles, something that the Jews found repulsive.。
So he acts in various ways so that he can relate。
to his target audience, and not just with words.。
Paul's purpose adheres to what Jesus makes clear。
for all of us as our purpose in our spiritual lives。
in Matthew 28.。
And this is, I'm sure, overused,。
but this is the great commission that Jesus leaves us.。
He says, "Therefore go and make disciples of all nations,。
"baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son。
"and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them。
"to obey everything I have commanded you.。
"And surely I am with you always。
"to the very end of the age."。
So this is a command not just for Paul,。
but actually for all of us.。
Paul advocates engaging in action。
and engaging in action with purpose.。
Paul advocates this because also, not just with purpose,。
we also need a sense of urgency in our action.。
It's not okay to just participate in the race,。
uncaring of whether one actually aims to finish。
or cross the finish line.。
He says to run in such a way as to get the prize.。
In the ancient races, there was no second or third place.。
There can only be one.。
And maybe someone can appreciate that movie quote.。
But imagine that there's competition。
when you're running the race.。
No one waits on you.。
You have to push yourself,。
and there's a sense of urgency in all of that.。
You have to push your hardest.。
And these days we have, and I guess my children aren't here,。
these days we have diminished the need。
for competitive urgency in our society,。
especially for the sake of not hurting children's feelings.。
There are awards for everything.。
There's participation awards for just someone。
who participates and shows up.。
And everybody is crowned a winner.。
You might get a medal and a trophy.。
And I think that that bleeds into。
how our spiritual activities and lives are.。
It seems enough to just show up,。
even when we're not fully involved.。
And sadly, I think that breeds spiritual mediocrity.。
Regularly attending church and volunteering are empty。
if our daily life does not reflect Christian behavior,。
and there are no efforts to be made。
to advance God's mission.。
Without the drive to strive,。
I think people fall into the danger。
of stopping short of completing what their holy duties are.。
I think the aspiration of people working hard。
and retiring early is also a very damaging narrative。
for people to follow,。
especially when it bleeds into how we behave.。
Even amongst believers,。
there's this aspiration to retire in our 50s。
and maybe in our 60s at the earliest.。
And folks dream about time they're gonna spend。
on the golf course or on cruises they're gonna go on,。
vacations they're gonna take.。
But this is, in my opinion, a very modern notion.。
We have the luxury now to actually consider。
this more leisurely lifestyle in our later stages of life,。
when we couldn't do that before.。
But I don't think that's actually a very biblical notion.。
And despite modern advances in productivity。
and healthcare and safety in the world,。
there's still many problems where Christians。
are called to answer those issues,。
and where the gospel and Christian work is needed.。
Now, I'm not saying that we should maintain。
the same level of intensity throughout our lives。
and how we do God's work,。
but we're still meant to just keep our eyes on the prize,。
to kind of cross that finish line,。
really until the day we die.。
I had a friend that used to always say,。
I'll rest when I die, and he was a ministry worker.。
And I think that is probably the more biblical thing。
to have in mind when we're actually thinking about。
how we proceed with the later stages of our lives.。
So God deserves our first fruit efforts。
in every part of our lives.。
And we don't need to officially win to be the winner,。
but we have to be in it to win it.。
We have to have a winner's mindset。
where we're aiming for a goal,。
we're pushing our highest, and we actually go for it.。
And that only happens with a sense of urgency。
to advance God's kingdom.。
Our faith requires action.。
That action or these actions require purpose,。
a sense of purpose, frame with purpose,。
and there has to be a level of urgency and immediacy。
to how we approach that work.。
Now, this is a picture of the tortoise and the hare,。
and it's a very famous fable that I assume all of you know.。
We need to be like the tortoise in the fable here,。
where we're constantly pursuing our goal.。
Slow, well, not slow because he's slow,。
but steady wins the race.。
Whereas the hare here is actually just relaxing。
because he's relying on his talent and his abilities,。
but he's procrastinating, he's lazy.。
We operate in a world now where we have control。
over so many aspects of our lives.。
We can control so many things, even from our smartwatches.。
And we think that we are the ones in control,。
even of how we handle our kingdom responsibilities。
that the Lord has given us.。
Sometimes the problem is that it's not that,。
you know, we're slow in getting to the race。
or slow in the pace of our race.。
We haven't even started the race.。
And the most blatant experience that I've had。
is when I used to serve as a volunteer。
at a MBA campus ministry.。
And I overheard a student speaking to another student,。
and he was telling this other student。
that he's gonna get this very lucrative job,。
and that he's gonna make up to $10 million,。
and when he does, that's when he's gonna retire early。
and then start serving the Lord.。
He thought that it was appropriate to wait。
and allocate time later on in his life to serve the Lord,。
and there was no immediacy,。
and there was no need to start his race anytime soon.。
You know, this reminds me of the passage。
in James chapter four, 13 to 15, where James says,。
"Now listen, you who say today or tomorrow。
"we will go to this or that city,。
"spend a year there, carry on business, and make money.。
"Why?。
"You don't even know what will happen tomorrow.。
"What is your life?。
"You are a mist that appears for a little while。
"and then vanishes.。
"Instead, you ought to say, if it is the Lord's will,。
"we will live and do this or that."。
In contrast to the MBA student,。
one of my inspirations is Dr. Stuart Wu.。
I don't know if some of you might know him,。
but he's probably one of the most dedicated。
and faithful servants I've ever met in my life.。
And I first encountered Dr. Wu。
when I was doing a short-term medical mission。
in Zhongshan, China.。
He's a retired surgeon, and he would regularly,。
more than once a year, go out to remote parts of China。
where we would have to track mountainous areas。
to get to people and provide them medical care。
and also to share the gospel.。
He did this into his late 80s,。
until he was 87 and then passed away.。
And he never made a complaint that I knew of。
when he did this.。
And so, I was less than half his age.。
I was probably a third of his age when I first met him.。
And I didn't have nearly as much stamina。
and as much zeal as he did.。
And I wish to be like him,。
because he kind of constantly had this mindset。
of finishing the race and finishing well,。
even until his late 80s.。
Nope, that's not it.。
I know this last slide says active rest,。
but actually, my focus pivoted toward。
making sure that we have guardrails.。
As we run the race and start doing God's work。
to spread his good news and make disciples,。
we need to make sure that we don't take。
an end justifies the means approach.。
And that how we behave in the process。
of reaching that goal matters as much。
as actually reaching that goal.。
So, even if there are great results。
of people coming to the church, of the church growing,。
it doesn't give you a pass on how you act。
in the way getting there.。
The Lord cares as much about that journey。
as he does about the end goal that you're striving for.。
You know, the last part of this passage,。
Paul emphasizes that he makes sure。
that he's not disqualified in his attempt。
to obtain the prize by making sure。
that he keeps his body in check.。
In verse 27, he says, "No, I strike a blow to my body。
"and make it my slave, so that after I preach to others,。
"I myself will not be disqualified for the prize."。
I believe that he's actually alluding。
to keeping material and physical temptations at bay.。
Because earlier in Corinthians,。
he had addressed the audience to flee。
from sexual immorality in chapter six.。
And I think that he's alluding to this。
when he's talking about making sure。
that he's not disqualified.。
He makes sure that as he's fulfilling the work of God,。
that he's not discredited and doesn't discredit。
the Lord's work by his behavior.。
Sadly, in recent years, we've seen a lot of church leaders,。
even in our region, fall to sexual sin.。
And this has had severe impact on the churches themselves,。
as well as people coming to the church.。
And this is what we want to stay away from.。
And it may not be such a blatant sin as sexual immorality.。
It could be an arrogant attitude.。
It could be poor financial stewardship.。
It could be a lack of empathy for the people。
that we're actually trying to target.。
In my devotions recently,。
I'm now finishing the book of Deuteronomy.。
At the end of Deuteronomy,。
Moses is getting ready to go up to Mount Nebo and to die.。
And he will never be able to cross into the promised land.。
He gets a view of the promised land,。
but he's not allowed to cross it.。
And this happened because he actually。
did not follow God's exact orders.。
Even though he is a champion and a hero of the Bible,。
and he saved the Israelites from slavery,。
and took him into, or got him ready。
to go into the promised land,。
the Lord prevents him from going in,。
because instead of whispering to a rock。
to call forth water, he knocks it twice in anger.。
And this was enough for the Lord。
to actually prevent him and penalize him。
from going into the promised land.。
How we uphold ourselves during our work。
is as important as accomplishing the end result.。
It's not only about the end point, but how we get there.。
Not just about the finish line,。
but how we run the race itself.。
So, I ask all of you, do you even lift, bruh?。
If you have been diligently doing God's work,。
keep at it, and remember that we're in a continuous marathon。
that requires training, diligence, dedication.。
But also, the point that I want to highlight,。
and said that I changed,。
was also to make sure that we rest.。
We, I think, especially as immigrants,。
or children of immigrants,。
there's this very strong work ethic that we develop.。
And sometimes we bring that also into our faith,。
and we don't rest.。
And the Lord prescribed the Sabbath for us,。
so that we can make sure that we rest as well,。
and are recharged so we can run even stronger,。
and for God.。
Continuously train yourselves,。
keep yourselves sharp and ready,。
and your muscles going, you know,。
reading the word, praying, being in fellowship,。
serving actively in your communities,。
and then keeping yourselves accountable。
while in fellowship with others.。
And for those of you who are honest and say,。
no, I don't lift, now's the time to start,。
because there is, it's never too late to get started.。
And it's important to begin when you know。
that God's calling you to his great commission.。
So, go run the race, and do your part in God's great work,。
and get those muscles going, and well conditioned.。
Let me end this in prayer.。
Heavenly Father, thank you for this opportunity。
to preach your word, and to understand that our faith。
is one that is demonstrated through action.。
And Paul uses the visual of running a race.。
I pray that for each one of us,。
you help us to understand the areas in our lives。
where we need to be better conditioned,。
or to start conditioning, and to operate these muscles,。
these spiritual muscles, so that we can be ready。
for your work that you've called us to,。
to advance your kingdom, and to make disciples。
for your kingdom.。
In your name we pray, amen.。
- Amen.。
