Good morning, welcome to our worship service.。
This is the first sermon of the year 2023.。
As we say goodbye to 2022,。
welcome to the new year 2023.。
We are probably thinking about a lot of different things.。
The Christmas season was just over.。
Probably your life or your house was in chaos or in a mess。
and you're trying to fix it。
and trying to put your house or your life back in order.。
The vacation mode is over。
and we're back to the so-called reality.。
And we should thank God in our calendar,。
in our daily life pattern,。
there's always time and always opportunity。
for us to say goodbye to the old and welcome the new.。
And for us to transition from one period to another period.。
I think this is a God sent moment。
for us to think about what our lives should be。
and where our life is heading to.。
In the new year, many of the people, including ourselves,。
are probably thinking about some resolutions, right?。
Some new year's resolution, probably losing weight.。
Any of you are thinking about this?。
Or quit some of the bad habit, going back to gym,。
paying off some debts or saving more money,。
building up a better or good habits.。
This kind of new year's resolutions.。
And I keep thinking about this question.。
I'm sure you do as well.。
What, as questions, should be thinking about。
in terms of new year's resolutions?。
As we transition from one period to another period,。
as we say goodbye to the old and welcoming the new year,。
what kind of new year's resolution。
should we be thinking about as the people of God?。
So I have chosen a fairly familiar passage。
to share with you, to reflect upon,。
so that we know what Jesus wants us to do.。
What kind of new year's resolution。
should we be keeping in mind at this time of the year?。
So as we welcome the new year,。
why don't we just read through this passage。
and see what we can take out of this passage?。
What kind of lessons we can learn?。
Here is Matthew chapter six.。
Now, Matthew chapter six is a familiar passage.。
It's actually the, sort of the conclusion。
of Sermon on the Mount,。
the famous, well-known sermon of Jesus。
giving to his disciples while on earth,。
teaching us what kingdom living is all about.。
So right at the end, almost the end of this long sermon。
from Matthew chapter five, all the way to chapter seven,。
we come to the end of chapter six.。
Six, 25, it says, "Therefore I tell you," Jesus says,。
"do not be anxious about your life,。
"what you will eat or what you will drink,。
"nor about your body, what you will put on.。
"It's not your life more than food。
"and the body more than clothing.。
"Look at the birds of the air.。
"They neither sow nor reap。
"nor gather into bonds,。
"yet your heavenly Father feeds them.。
"Are you not more value than they?。
"And which of you, by being anxious,。
"can add one single hour or cupid to his span of life?"。
So Jesus said, "Don't you worry about your essential needs,。
"the money, your bank account, your investment,。
"all this earthly concern that we have."。
Now, Jesus is not saying that we should be irresponsible.。
That's not the teaching of the Bible.。
Jesus is saying our mind and our heart。
should not be so fixed upon things like these.。
He says, "Look at the birds of the air.。
"The Father is feeding them.。
"They don't work as hard as we do.。
"They don't gather into bonds, they don't harvest,。
"but the heavenly Father is feeding them。
"and keeping them alive."。
And he compares that to our lives.。
"And which of you, by being anxious, just worrying,。
"working so hard, right, or overworking,。
"how many of us can do this, being anxious,。
"can add one single hour to the span of our life?"。
Now, the original word behind the word hour is cupid.。
Cupid is the arm length of the king,。
most probably Egyptian king, Pharaoh,。
using his arm as the standard of measurement。
in the ancient days.。
Cupid is arm length, is the smallest unit of measurement,。
smallest unit of length.。
So Jesus is saying, by having anxiety,。
cannot add a single cupid, cannot add the most basic,。
the smallest unit to the span of life of hours.。
So he keeps on saying,。
"Why are you anxious about clothing?"。
Right, what we wear, the outward appearance,。
the outward things.。
He said, "Look at the lilies of the field, how they grow.。
"They neither toil or spin."。
But I tell you, even King Solomon in all his glory。
was not to be compared to one of these,。
to the bird or the wild flowers, the lilies of the field.。
"But if God so clothes the grass of the field,。
"which today is alive, tomorrow will be gone。
"and thrown into an oven,。
"will he not much more clothe you,。
"O you of little faith?。
"Therefore, do not be anxious, saying,。
"What shall we eat?。
"What shall we drink?。
"What shall we wear?"。
For the Gentiles, those people who do not follow Jesus,。
do not know God, they seek after all these things,。
all this eating, drinking, clothing,。
but your heavenly Father knows what you need,。
that you need them all.。
But seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness。
and all these things will be added to you.。
Now, therefore, do not be anxious about tomorrow,。
for tomorrow will be anxious for itself.。
Enough for the day, sufficient for the day。
is its own trouble.。
Now, this is the one unit, one of the units。
of the Sermon on the Mount,。
talking about how the disciples should be living.。
What is the disciple of Christ should be seeking after all.。
Jesus is comparing some of the things。
that those people who don't know Jesus,。
what they're seeking, what they're going after,。
and compared to what a disciple of Christ。
should be seeking and pursuing.。
I remember years ago,。
I left Israel after my trip.。
It was about more than 10 years ago.。
I left Israel and I was waiting for the flight。
in the Tel Aviv airport.。
So I was walking around in the hallway of the airport。
and then I bum into a map。
outside of the Elor Airlines.。
Now, the Elor Airlines, as you can see here,。
is the national Israeli airline。
and it's one of the most well-known airlines in the world.。
So I went by the counter。
and then I saw this map.。
You know, this map, I was pretty curious,。
why is there a map like this by the counter of Elor?。
Can you guess what this map is all about?。
What is this map?。
Now, I have some options here.。
A, intercontinental highway system.。
So this Elor is intercontinental Africa to Asia or Europe,。
probably a highway system road map。
or the airline route map。
or none of the above.。
Which one do you think this map is all about?。
Is it the highway system?。
Is it the route map?。
Or is it none of the above?。
Now, the answer is, it's none of the above.。
It's not the highway system.。
This is not a map of the Elor airline route map.。
And now what this is all about。
is actually routes or map of routes。
of the migratory birds in Israel.。
Migratory birds, as we know,。
they fly from south to north and north to south,。
depending on the season.。
When it is in the winter, it's getting so cold,。
the birds will migrate down to the warmer climate, right?。
In the continent of Africa.。
So this map is very interesting,。
just right outside of Elor airline back then 10 years ago.。
It's not there anymore.。
So I took a picture.。
So I took this picture because as I saw this map,。
I immediately thought of Matthew 6,。
when Jesus said, "Do not worry about what you eat。
"and what you drink."。
Look at the birds of the air, check them out,。
see how they fly.。
And I immediately thought of this passage。
of the Sermon on the Mount,。
because Jesus was saying,。
referring to the birds of the air.。
And this is not by accident that Jesus knew something。
about the geography of Israel,。
because the birds are traveling north to south。
and south to north.。
They have to travel through the narrow strip of land。
of Israel Palestine.。
As you can see on the left or the west side。
of this long narrow strip is the Mediterranean Sea.。
And on the right is the desert of the Syrian,。
Saudi Arabia desert on the right or in the east.。
Now let me show you a map here.。
As you can see, this is the Google map.。
And you can see Israel is right here.。
And this long narrow corridor is the land bridge。
of all the continents, Africa, Asia minor and Europe,。
and Asia.。
This is the land bridge.。
And on the left is the huge Eastern Mediterranean Sea.。
And then on the right is the Saudi Arabia or Syrian desert.。
So the birds have to travel through from north to south。
or south to north, they have to fly through。
the land of Israel.。
In fact, in the land of Israel,。
just north of the lake of Galilee or Sea of Galilee,。
here there's a small strip of flat land called Hula Valley.。
This Hula Valley is famous for bird watching.。
In the end of the year, around the month of November。
or December, bird watching people would gather。
in this Hula Valley north of Sea of Galilee。
in order to just look at the birds,。
look at all this beautiful migratory birds。
flying through Israel.。
As you can see this beautiful pictures of birds。
and migratory birds are flying through the land of Israel,。
particularly through that corridor of Galilee.。
Migratory bird flying through Mount Hermon right here.。
So Jesus was saying, pointing to the birds。
and the disciples knew about this.。
It's about time of the year。
when the migratory birds will fly through。
this strip of land and they can see all sorts。
of different birds and different big and small。
flying creatures going through the land.。
So they are not unfamiliar with all of this。
beautiful birds and different migratory pattern.。
Jesus was pointing to something that they could see。
and they could observe and just ask them to open your eyes。
and see how the creatures of God, how the animals,。
how the birds are being taken care of by the heavenly father.。
So compared to our own lives, we are so much more valuable。
than one of these sparrow or birds.。
And then he take another example from the field.。
So the first example was to direct our eyes,。
direct our perspective toward the sky,。
see the migratory birds, right?。
They are being taken care of by the heavenly father,。
just like God will take care of you.。
And also he direct the perspective on the field.。
On the land.。
So we look up and then we look down。
and we see all kinds of wild flower,。
the lilies of the field.。
The wild flower growing in every single season,。
every single month, they have different colour。
in every month.。
Sometimes it's red, sometimes it's white,。
sometimes it's yellow, sometimes it's like。
this beautiful purple.。
So he was saying to these disciples, saying to us,。
look at the wild flower growing almost by themselves。
because the heavenly father is taking care of them.。
Look at the flower, how glorious。
and how beautiful they are.。
He said, compare the beauty of the wild flower in gallery.。
And you will notice how beautiful they are。
compared to the time of Solomon.。
Remember Jesus said,。
you see the wild flower, the lilies of the field,。
how glorious they are.。
They are more beautiful, more glorious,。
more majestic than the time of Solomon.。
In times of Solomon,。
the royal purple or the royal building。
were the glory.。
Now, if you know about something,。
if you know something about purple dye,。
the colour purple is really hard to obtain,。
even these days.。
Purple is the hardest dye,。
the hardest dye to obtain.。
Now, back in Jesus' day,。
when people need to have the purple dye,。
they have to go to the Mediterranean seacoast。
to gather the myrrh shells.。
And one of the, take the shells and open it up。
and you harvest the gland,。
a very small part of the myrrh.。
And then you gather all the glands。
and you can get some purple dye.。
Now, as you can see in this picture,。
you have to do that one by one。
in order to have purple,。
in order to have the most valuable,。
most royal colour in Jesus' day.。
How many do we need in order to dye purple?。
How many do we need in order to dye clothing into purple?。
Now, as you can see in this formula,。
you need 54 kilogram of myrrh shell。
that is equal to 119 pounds。
of different, many myrrh shells。
in order to produce only one gram of purple.。
One gram of the colour.。
It's so hard to get, right?。
It's so valuable.。
But look at the lilies of the field.。
Look at the pictures.。
Look at pictures how the purple flowers。
are just growing on the field.。
And God is taking care of them.。
God is clothing them with the best colour on earth.。
You cannot compare the beauty of this wildflower,。
this purple flower, red flower,。
with all these different kinds of beautiful colours.。
Compare them to the time of King Solomon,。
what he was wearing, right?。
These flowers is more beautiful。
than what Solomon has on his body.。
So don't you worry.。
Don't you overwork so hard。
in order to obtain one of these colours, right?。
One of these glories.。
Because you know that the heavenly father。
is taking care of you.。
Now, not only the purple colour。
was such a valuable in Jesus' day,。
even the buildings, the royal buildings, the temple,。
they were the most magnificent buildings。
on earth in those days.。
Here I show you a picture of a model of Jerusalem.。
The ratio is one to 50.。
You can see that in Israel Museum.。
As you can see this man here,。
you know, this model of Jerusalem is already,。
is very, very, very big.。
And the scale is only one to 50.。
Now, as you can see this model,。
it is gigantic temple mount.。
It is a glorious golden building of the temple.。
Now, when people think of Solomon,。
they think of the most glorious period of Israel's history.。
I remember I had a dinner with some of the classmates。
when I was studying in Jerusalem.。
And we had the opportunity to sit down。
with some of the most,。
the best Israeli Jewish teachers in Jerusalem.。
So I remember one time we were sitting down around the table。
with one of the teachers that I really respect.。
He is Israeli Jewish teacher.。
And we were, you know, chit-chatting。
and talking about different things.。
And then one of the classmates asked the teacher,。
the Jewish teacher,。
and if you had the opportunity,。
if you can travel back to the Old Testament time。
or the history of Israel,。
which period would you choose in order to witness。
the glory or what happened in those days?。
And without even thinking,。
he respond by saying,。
I would want to travel back to the time of King Solomon。
when he dedicate the temple,。
when the glory of God fills the temple。
and people cannot even enter.。
You know, that sort of glorious day,。
the good old days,。
was the time of King Solomon.。
But what was Jesus saying?。
Jesus was saying,。
even when you consider the most glorious,。
magnificent building,。
magnificent period of your history,。
this cannot be compared to the lilies of the field.。
How the father has clothed the field。
with all sorts of different valuable colors.。
You cannot compare them to one of these.。
One of these purple flowers or different kinds.。
They grow by themselves。
because the heavenly father is taking care of them.。
Now, the take home for us, as Jesus said,。
is that do not be overly anxious about。
what we eat and what we drink.。
Or housing, right?。
What kind of house do we have?。
What kind of house do we buy?。
What kind of car do we drive?。
Again, it's not suggesting。
in any way that we should live irresponsibly.。
We should be good stewards。
of all the resources God has given to us.。
But Jesus is saying, do not be overly anxious.。
Do not be just overly worrying.。
Or work just so hard on where you live,。
what you wear, and how you look.。
God is taking care of you.。
But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.。
And all these things, what we eat and what we drink,。
where we stay, will be added to you.。
Seek first the kingdom of God.。
I think a better translation would be。
pursue the kingdom of God.。
Run after first the kingdom of God.。
Be concerned about the name of God.。
Making God's name famous,。
it should be our first and foremost concern.。
And his righteousness, all the things。
that the word of God is teaching us to do.。
Be concerned and pursue above all。
the righteousness of God, what God requires us to do.。
And then all these things will be provided for you.。
The priority of our lives,。
as we say goodbye to the old time, 2022,。
and welcome a new year, 2023,。
let us be reminded, seek first, run after,。
be the first and foremost concern。
in our desire to glorify God, to serve him.。
So talking about New Year's resolutions,。
how do you fill in the blanks?。
How do you fill in the blanks?。
What are those things that we should first seek after。
and desire most?。
Let me suggest to you five of them,。
before considering any other things.。
First, live in the word of God.。
Read the word of God, meditate on it,。
reflect upon it, so that the word of God。
can fill our lives and inform our living.。
That is the first and foremost thing we can do。
and we have to do as disciples of Christ.。
When the word of God is filling your lives,。
your priority is correct, and your priority of lives,。
you know what is your foremost concern and desire.。
Then everything else will be configured correctly.。
Live in the word of God, read the word of God daily,。
every single day, meditate upon it.。
I'm not saying you have to read the word of God 24/7.。
I'm saying that should be our consistent pattern of thought.。
Think about what the Bible says,。
how we should make any decision,。
how we can please God.。
These are all coming from scripture.。
So we have to live in the word.。
And then secondly, I suggest that we have to pray daily.。
Pray for ourselves and most formally,。
and pray for others.。
Not just be concerned about our own needs。
and most of the time our own wants.。
You know, those are really insignificant。
compared to the eternal kingdom of God.。
Pray daily for other people,。
those who are in need around us.。
Pray for them and care for them.。
And third, worship wholeheartedly.。
Worship God with all of our heart。
and all of our soul and all of our strength.。
You know, we worship God because whenever we worship,。
we are reminded who is really the king,。
who is really the leader of our lives,。
not ourselves, God himself.。
And we can reset our priority on a weekly basis.。
That's why we insist on church not closing, right?。
Not be so concerned about, you know,。
what kind of pandemic out there and disease out there.。
A church should be operating every single week.。
We worship God every single week, right?。
Wholeheartedly.。
Fourth, build up the family of a church,。
the family of God.。
The New Testament and the Old Testament。
regularly, consistently reminds us。
our number one concern to live socially。
is to build up the family of God.。
Use our gifts, use our talents to build up the church,。
to plan a church, to strengthen our church.。
Go to a fellowship and pray with other believers.。
Let other believers encourage you。
and let your presence be an encouragement to other people.。
Build up the family of the church.。
Fifth, practice stewardship, faithful stewardship.。
The Bible tells us use our time faithfully to serve God.。
Use our talent to serve God.。
Use our treasure, our money, our offering。
to build up the ministry for the glory of God.。
So seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.。
Let this be our priority.。
Let us reset our list of things that we wanna do,。
our list of resolutions so that we can glorify God together.。
Let us all pray together.。
Father, we wanna give you thanks for a time of renewal.。
As we say goodbye to year 2023 and welcome a new year,。
let this be a reminder to all of us to reset our priority,。
to seek first your kingdom and your righteousness.。
And let us not be too concerned and overly anxious。
about the essential things,。
because we know that you will take care of us。
and help us to serve you, to worship you wholeheartedly.。
Help us to live faithfully according to your word.。
In Christ, we pray.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
