- All right, guys, this is the Christmas season,。
and we're going to talk about the Christmas story,。
of course, and we're gonna turn to the Bible。
and continue, actually, with this mini-series。
on the pagan canes in the Bible.。
And I'd love to see all of you,。
and I know some of you are missing today。
because of some difficulties,。
and we're gonna pray for one another。
at the end of the service, all right, after the sermon.。
So I wanna set aside some time at the end of this service。
to remember some of those who are weak。
and having challenges.。
You know, one of them is Jinfan.。
Jinfan is still in the hospital, I think.。
Hopefully, she will be discharged by the end of today,。
and I'll give you more updates at the end,。
and actually, it's good to see you,。
once you're here, and good to see you.。
I know it's a difficult day yesterday.。
Jim Borders also, you might, yeah,。
they went to UR, and so it's a very difficult day。
for some of us.。
And remember to pray for one another,。
and we'll do that after the sermon.。
And again, we turn to the Christmas story,。
which is found in Matthew and Luke,。
Matthew 1 and 2 and Luke 1 and 2,。
and today, we're going to focus on Luke 2,。
and the first few verses talk about。
the context and the time when Jesus was born.。
2.1, in those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree。
that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world.。
And this was the first census,。
or the census before something took place,。
and what that took place was that。
Quirinius was governor of Syria.。
And verse 3, everyone went to his own town to register.。
Now, this is one of the Christmas stories。
recorded in the Bible about the birth of Jesus.。
As I said, the first two chapters of the Gospel of Matthew,。
the first two chapters of the Gospel of Luke,。
which is this passage, it's all about,。
and the Gospel of Luke did not miss the background,。
you know, the history, the time of Jesus' birth.。
There are two pagan kings mentioned here.。
The first one is named Augustus,。
the second one is Quirinius,。
and we're gonna focus on Augustus.。
Augustus was the founder and the first emperor。
of the Roman Empire, and he was a very powerful。
Roman king and a political elite.。
So he rose to power after a series of military conflicts。
and a series of political successes,。
and under Augustus, the Roman Empire expanded greatly,。
and he built many different buildings,。
and he kept the peace, what we call later day。
Pax Romana, Roman peace,。
which means he beat up all the guys,。
you know, he conquered all the lands,。
and then there will be peace.。
So he kept the peace with his iron fist,。
and he conquered many, many places,。
including the land of Israel, Palestine,。
and he imposed heavy taxes, heavy taxes.。
You think your tax is heavy?。
Back in the Roman world, their tax was quite heavy,。
especially for those who are common people.。
And Augustus even called himself the son of God.。
From the coins, from the statue,。
from all the inscriptions, you know,。
all these promotions and propaganda,。
talking about him as the divine son of God.。
And he demanded people to worship him。
and to pledge allegiance to him.。
Now, as we see these three verses,。
notice the words, issue a decree, a decree.。
It was a political order.。
Now, only the Roman emperor can do that,。
can issue a decree, a demand on the people to obey.。
And one of the contents of the decree is taking a census.。
Now, census in those days in the Roman world,。
it's not simply counting the heads.。
It's not simply counting number of people.。
It's not just for statistics purpose.。
The Roman empire would call for census。
every some 10 years or maybe 14 years.。
Every 10 or 14 years, they would call for,。
you know, regional or empire-wide census.。
And the purpose of a census is to control,。
is to exercise control of the conquered people.。
So in the census, when the time comes,。
you have to report in your hometown to the government.。
Now, people would often be upset.。
And that's why in times of census,。
you know, people often will plan for revolt。
against the empire.。
And you also notice not only the word decree。
and also the word census, also Quirinius.。
Quirinius was a governor of the province of Syria,。
which includes the land of Palestine, Israel.。
And the word governor is where we get。
the English word hegemony.。
Hegemony, it means the most powerful guy, you know.。
He's the most powerful guy in the region, in the province.。
And of course, the top guy is, this guy here is Augustus.。
Now, as you can tell from this three verses,。
Luke is trying to tell us when Jesus was born,。
it was a time of mighty political power,。
exercising their authority over poor people,。
the common people.。
And Christmas happened in such a time.。
So don't you forget, in the time of Jesus' birth,。
it's not what we experience in Christmas.。
You know, usually when Christmas comes,。
what are we thinking about?。
We think about vacation, right?。
You got some vacation to burn, right?。
So you wanna do it by the end of the year.。
In times of Christmas, you think about shopping,。
buying gifts, you know, Christmas lights,。
and all those things.。
In the time of Jesus' birth, it was not like that.。
It was a time of domination.。
It was a time of a political crisis。
or political instability.。
And this three verses, you know, trying to tell us。
or to give us the context, the time of Jesus' birth.。
Verse four, "So Joseph," now, as you can see,。
the camera is trying to zoom in。
to the main character of the story.。
"So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth,。
"in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David,。
"because he belonged to the house and line of David.。
"He went there to register with Mary,。
"and Mary was pledged to be married to him。
"and was expecting a child."。
I think Mary's carrying at least nine months now.。
"While they were there, Joseph and Mary,。
"the time came for the baby, Jesus, to be born.。
"And she gave birth to her firstborn, a son.。
"She wrapped him up in cloths and placed him in a manger,。
"because there was no room for them in the inn."。
Now, there's so many details here we can unpack,。
but here, the big picture is the common people,。
the conquered people, the losers,。
Joseph and Mary included, and Jesus, of course, included,。
and all the Jewish people, they report to their hometowns。
and to recognize that Augustus was ruling over them.。
Augustus was the king.。
Nobody else is the king.。
And Mary and Joseph were on their way from Galilee,。
which is in the north, to Bethlehem.。
As you can see from the map,。
right there, far corner on the right,。
kind of upper right, you see Nazareth?。
Can you see that?。
You can make it out, right?。
That is in Galilee.。
Galilee, you see the small lake on the right。
is the Sea of Galilee, a freshwater lake.。
And they have to make the journey to the south,。
which is Jerusalem and Bethlehem.。
Now, Bethlehem is located a few kilometer south of Jerusalem。
so they have to make the way all the way from the north。
to the south, and that is, the red line there,。
is 80-mile journey, and mostly, I think, on foot.。
Mostly on foot.。
You can imagine if you are pregnant with a baby,。
eight months, nine months, and you have to walk, right?。
Now, most of the image that we have for Christmas。
is that they got a donkey, right?。
They got a donkey.。
They kind of like, they have a Uber, you know?。
So Mary was on the Uber, was on the donkey.。
Well, not necessarily so, because you got to pay。
for the Uber, right?。
You can't get the free Uber.。
Not necessarily so.。
I think the 80, 90-mile journey, mostly, was on foot.。
80 miles is like three marathons, right?。
Carrying a baby is a very, very difficult journey.。
Chapter two, verse four says, "Went up to Bethlehem."。
And that makes sense geographically。
because you're climbing from the north shore。
of the Dead Sea, which is right at the bottom center,。
and you have to climb almost 2,000 feet,。
and over 2,000 feet, to the central mountain range。
where Jerusalem and Bethlehem were located.。
And as you can tell, it's a very difficult journey,。
especially for a pregnant woman.。
And when they get there, it was time to give birth.。
And Joseph, I think probably, at the time of delivery,。
he had to urgently hire a midwife to help out.。
And there was no, you know, Rush Hospital。
or Northwestern Hospital in those days.。
There was no delivery room.。
And the scripture tells us, they went into the barn,。
and there was no place for the baby to lay but a manger.。
However, in Luke one and two, we find people like this.。
They were able to meet Jesus as their Savior.。
As you can tell from verse one,。
the main character seems to be Augustus,。
seems to be those who hold power,。
those who have political might,。
those who have military might,。
and they were the main actors in history.。
They were the main actors on stage,。
on the stage of human history.。
Augustus, Quirinius, the governor, the king, the emperor,。
the political elites, all those people。
are the main actors in human story, right?。
So we study Western history or Eastern history。
or whatever history.。
Sometimes we focus so much on the big guys, right?。
The kings, the emperor, the generals, right?。
Those who can fight, those who can win,。
and those who can conquer.。
But in Luke, in the Christmas story,。
the concentration or the focus is on the common people,。
on Joseph and Mary.。
Now, we don't have time to take a lot of details today,。
but in Luke 1 and 2, the first two chapters,。
talking about Christmas or the arrival of Jesus,。
the Son of God, the Savior,。
the Gospel of Luke mentions so many different people。
who have met the baby Jesus,。
who have been part of the Savior's story.。
From chapter two, we see Joseph and Mary,。
and Mary was probably, you know how old Mary was?。
Probably a high school girl, right?。
14 year old, 15 year old,。
and has the faith to receive Jesus.。
And then chapter one,。
the parents of John the Baptist,。
Zechariah and Elizabeth,。
and these two, they're the couple,。
were aging and dying couple because they were so old,。
and the Gospel of Luke tells us。
they had no child.。
They're struggling with infertility,。
and in those days, it is a shame to not have a child.。
In those days, it was hopeless。
if you cannot have a child to carry on your name,。
to continue your line and your family.。
So Zechariah and Elizabeth,。
they were dying and aging couple,。
and they had no child.。
However, in chapter one,。
God graced them and granted them。
a miracle child, John the Baptist.。
And John the Baptist is the pioneer of the Savior Jesus.。
That is Luke chapter one.。
And then the story goes on and talks about Jesus。
when after he was born, when he was eight days old,。
he was brought to the temple in Jerusalem for offering.。
So Joseph and Mary are carrying an eight-day-old child,。
Jesus, in their arms,。
and bring him to the temple in Jerusalem。
for circumcision and for offering a sacrifice.。
And there in the temple court,。
two other people are being mentioned,。
and they have the opportunity to take part。
and to experience, to meet the baby Jesus.。
And the first one is Simeon.。
Simeon, the Bible did not tell us how old he was.。
I think probably he was in his last days of his life,。
and he was devoted to worship God day and night。
in the temple, and finally he met Jesus, the Savior.。
And then the second person is Anna.。
Anna was an old widow.。
The Gospel of Luke tells us she lived in the temple。
day after day with the hope of seeing the salvation happen。
in her life.。
And there Anna also met Jesus in the temple court.。
Now these people, Joseph and Mary, Zechariah and Elizabeth,。
and their son, miracle child, John the Baptist,。
pioneer of Jesus, and Simeon, Anna,。
they are all powerless people,。
but in the plan of God, in the story of God,。
they are the main characters,。
because they praise God and thank God and worship God,。
because finally they can see the Savior。
coming into the world, coming into their life.。
And they welcome Jesus, the Savior,。
with thanksgiving and with faith.。
Now if you have time, I would always recommend。
in times of Christmas, go into the Bible,。
spend some time, and we read and meditate。
and reflect on the story of Christmas.。
Now if you have time, look at Luke 1 and 2.。
You see, Luke is trying to tell the story。
of some of these common people,。
and afterwards, he always record their praise and worship.。
Anna praised God, Simeon praised God。
after holding and seeing the Savior, baby Jesus.。
Zechariah and Elizabeth, they burst out。
with praise and worship, because they finally have met。
the hope of Israel, the hope of mankind,。
the salvation in Jesus.。
And Joseph and Mary, of course Mary,。
offer a song called "Magnificat."。
And that is a song praising God for reversing our role,。
reversing, you know, the powerful becomes powerless,。
and the powerless become powerful in the sight of God.。
So all of these people, they are common,。
even though they are conquered,。
they are in the low, low bottom layer of the society,。
and they welcome the Savior,。
and they have met the Savior face to face。
with thanksgiving and in worship.。
Now this is relevant to us,。
because none of us is like Augustus.。
None of us is like billionaire.。
Maybe you got a lot of money, okay?。
I guess you are not Elon Musk, right?。
You're not in the White House.。
You're not the powerful elite.。
But this story tells us Jesus came to the life of people。
who are powerless, who are poor, and who feel oppressed.。
Now Jesus is different from Augustus,。
because his kingdom is different from the Roman Empire.。
Jesus did not come to collect power for a field.。
Jesus is going to rule differently.。
And as I told you, all the praise songs,。
especially Mary's praise song, "Magnificat,"。
talks about God in Jesus elevates those。
who are without privilege, without status,。
elevate them from low to high,。
and release people from bondage.。
And that is the vision of Jesus' kingdom,。
is to restore relationship with God。
and restore our brokenness。
so that he can breathe life, eternal life in our lives.。
Augustus would ask other people to sacrifice themselves。
for him and for his power, for his kingdom, for his empire.。
But Jesus came and sacrificed himself for us,。
sinners, broken people.。
We don't deserve it.。
But Jesus came and sacrificed himself for us.。
And our situation may be different from 2000 years ago,。
but we still see kings these days,。
politicians these days,。
flexing their muscle for self-interest.。
And these people, the powerful,。
would benefit themselves and the privileged few.。
Jesus is calling us not to serve ourselves,。
but to serve others.。
So that's what he did.。
The ruling powers may be strong。
and seek to bend us to their vision,。
but Jesus is calling you, calling me, to his kingdom.。
And his kingdom is totally different。
from the earthly empire.。
His kingdom is characterized by service and humility,。
service and humility.。
As we think about the birth of Jesus in this holiday season,。
don't you forget,。
don't you forget Jesus is calling us for his kingdom.。
And his kingdom is totally different.。
And remind ourselves not to seek our own good,。
but to give and to serve other people.。
In Luke chapter 22,。
almost before Jesus went to the cross and being crucified,。
he said to his disciples,。
because they're on their way to Jerusalem,。
and Jesus knew that he was gonna die。
a shameful death on the cross,。
and he was trying to interact with his disciples,。
and his disciples trying to fight for,。
you know, who's gonna be first in Jesus' kingdom.。
And Jesus is trying to tell them and to teach them,。
this is a totally different way.。
It's a way of reversal.。
Jesus said to the disciples,。
"The kings of the Gentiles, lord it over them,。
"and those who exercise authority over them,。
"call themselves benefactors."。
And the kings, the emperor, the powerful people,。
would call themselves to be benefactors,。
because they are the ones who do good to other people, right?。
To have charity to other people,。
to shower blessing to other people.。
They are the actors, the benefactors.。
These are the Gentile kings.。
Jesus said in verse 26 and following,。
he said, "You guys, the disciples,。
"the church, are not to be like that.。
"Instead, the greatest among you shall be like the youngest,。
"and the one who rules like the one who serves."。
Who is more important in the kingdom of heaven?。
The one who sits at the table, or the one who serves?。
Who is more important, Jesus said?。
The one who sits at the table, of course, but not here.。
You know, in the Roman Empire,。
the one who sits at the table, who has the feast,。
they are the powerful.。
But in the kingdom of heaven, in the kingdom of Jesus,。
it's not like that.。
Jesus said, "For I am among you as one who serves."。
Jesus came to serve us, not to be served.。
And that's why Jesus, in the sight of God,。
is the real Son of the Most High,。
the real Son of God, not Augustus.。
And Jesus bring us true peace,。
not the Roman peace, not the earthly peace,。
but the heavenly peace, eternal peace,。
because our relationship with God can be restored。
because of what Jesus did for us.。
And Jesus comes to serve all of us.。
Those who are on top of the pyramid,。
Augustus, the earthly kings,。
those who have the political power,。
they come to be served.。
But Jesus said, "In my kingdom,。
"the order of things is totally different."。
So as we reflect on the Christmas season,。
ask ourselves a question.。
What can we do to serve God and others?。
What can we do not to be served, but to serve others?。
As I told you at the beginning of this sermon,。
we're gonna serve one another,。
we're gonna pray for one another.。
So let's start with this small action,。
to remember other people, all right?。
So last night, I received a message from Jin Fan,。
and I was kind of taken aback。
because she told me she was in the hospital。
because she was having some high blood pressure,。
beyond normal.。
So Paul and Jin Fan rushed to Northwestern Hospital,。
and I just received a message this morning.。
As you know, Jin Fan is carrying 34 weeks, right?。
34 weeks, yeah, it's very critical.。
And, but I received a message from her this morning,。
her blood pressure is back to normal.。
Hopefully, we pray for her, pray for Paul,。
pray for the baby.。
Everything will go fine,。
and she will be discharged by the end of today, yeah.。
But we need to pray for them, pray for them.。
And then, and I also received another news,。
is Wang Shi also went to ER,。
because Jin Paul also went to ER because of stomach ache.。
But he was discharged last night, right?。
Yeah, so they have a very difficult day.。
Yeah, so, boy, we need to pray for one another, all right?。
For those of us who are well, and relatively healthy,。
don't forget to serve one another,。
to care for one another, right?。
Yeah, why don't we spend some time to pray for one another?。
So in your quiet prayer,。
please pray for those who are in need,。
Jin Fan and Jin Paul,。
and all the people that God brings to mind.。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
Father, we come before you, we know we are broken,。
we are weak, and we are poor.。
We are not like the powerful.。
We are not like those who have might.。
They seem to be the main actors.。
But we come before you, we know that.。
Your focus is on us,。
because you love us,。
and you take care of us.。
Never have a moment in our lives that's out of your sight.。
Never have a minute in our life that's out of your control.。
So we come before you to acknowledge。
that you are the Lord, you are our King,。
and you are indeed holding everything together in our world.。
So we wanna give you thanks,。
we wanna praise you and worship you.。
We sing songs to you,。
not to those on top of the pyramid,。
but to you,。
who came to us in Jesus,。
in the form of manger,。
the form of a baby,。
just like every one of us.。
You came to save us, to serve us,。
even die on the cross,。
sacrifice yourself in order to redeem all of us,。
so that our relationship with the Father can be restored,。
so that we can have hope.。
And thank you for your love and your grace.。
And we don't deserve it,。
yet this grace came to our lives.。
So again, in this season of Christmas,。
remind us how you live,。
remind us your life,。
remind us how our Lord Jesus came not to be served,。
but to serve all of us.。
And yes, Father, we wanna remember。
some of our family members,。
some of our church members,。
and those who are having a tough time and challenging time.。
And we, first of all, wanna uplift Jinfan,。
Paul and their baby in your hand.。
We know that they had a very challenging day。
yesterday and today,。
and I just pray that you will grant them peace,。
you'll help them to calm。
and to know that everything is in your hand.。
We praise you for bringing the blood pressure。
down to normal level.。
We praise you for good news.。
And I pray that you will be their protection.。
And we just pray that Jinfan will be discharged today,。
and you will continue to protect。
and especially watch over Jinfan's pregnancy.。
We also wanna pray for our brother, Jinbo.。
We know that he was having just pain yesterday,。
and they were rushed to ER.。
Sure, they have a very, very chaotic。
and very, very difficult night,。
but we praise you for good news.。
And I just pray that you will continue。
to bring healing to Jinbo,。
to grant strength to Wanshe and their family,。
be with them, and knowing that, God,。
you are always our strength,。
and you are our power, and you are our refuge.。
I pray for those we cannot mention by names.。
I'm sure some of us are having a very hard time。
and a challenging season in our lives.。
Help us to lift our eyes to the throne.。
Know that you are the king, and you are in control.。
Increase our faith so that we can trust in you.。
Thank you for being our God.。
Thank you for being, walking with us.。
And you are faithful, and you are always faithful,。
yesterday, today, and tomorrow.。
And your grace is always sufficient.。
So we pray that we'll rely on you。
and to believe in you and to trust in you,。
trusting the fact that you are always our provider,。
and you are always our shepherd,。
and you will be with us always.。
So pray for our church as well.。
As we come to the end of the year,。
we are thinking about the next year,。
our plan, our budget, our financial need,。
and all of the ministries that we're gonna come before you。
and pray that you will bless us.。
Whatever we do in your name,。
we'll receive blessing and we'll receive fruit。
so that we can bring glory to you.。
And I pray that as we go out from here,。
you will send us out to live the life of kingdom。
in our family, in our workplace,。
in everywhere you send us,。
that we will demonstrate your love.。
You will demonstrate your grace.。
Thank you, Father, in Christ, we pray.。
Well, I wanna remind you to continue。
to pray for one another.。
For those who are weak and for those who are in need.。
And I also wanna remind you in the season of Christmas,。
let's do something for other people.。
Maybe a random act of kindness to our neighbors,。
to our brother and sister in the church.。
And please remember one another。
and show the spirit of Christmas a little bit more.。
All right?。
And by the way, this afternoon,。
I just made up my mind to go to the Zoolight。
in Lincoln Park.。
Anyone wanna join us?。
You can get the tickets yourself。
and you can see me and we go together。
for the Zoolight at 5.30 p.m.。
All right, 5.30.。
All right?。
But you have to pay for your own ticket.。
But you wanna hang out with some of the people。
together this afternoon, please.。
Yeah, you're welcome to join us.。
All right?。
