- Welcome everyone, and then Mark will take us further.。
- Alright, thank you Kelly and Pastor J.。
Welcome, good to see you.。
And we're gonna pray for you at the end.。
Make sure we pray for Pastor J until he,。
I guess, you know, settle on a。
stable ministry in Korea, alright?。
So we're gonna pray for you and pray for your family.。
Alright, so why don't we take some time。
and say hi to your neighbor.。
You know, just wave your hands, you know, front and back.。
You know.。
We have been talking about the book of Revelation,。
the last book of the Bible, about end times,。
about the second coming of Jesus Christ.。
And before we go back to the book of Revelation,。
I think it would be a great idea to digress a little bit,。
you know, to study something outside of the book。
of Revelation to get some idea, some basic concept。
about what the end time is gonna be like.。
So today, we're going to, not going to go to the book。
of Revelation today, but we're going to read。
and study Matthew 24.。
It is a famous passage, a famous well-known sermon。
given by Jesus called Oliver Discourse, Oliver's Sermon.。
He gave this sermon on the top of Mount Olives。
facing Jerusalem.。
So we're gonna study a little bit, but as I said before,。
as I told you before, remember when you read the Bible,。
whatever passage you're reading, you need to understand。
the context, right?。
What goes before and what goes after.。
Matthew 24, if you go back a few chapter before Matthew 24。
to Matthew 21, it is the triumphant entry of Jesus Christ.。
He rise the donkey and enter the capital city。
of the Jewish nation.。
That was the Palm Sunday, so-called,。
the triumphant entry into Jerusalem.。
You know, Palm Sunday is coming up, right, next month,。
right, this Sunday before Easter Sunday is Palm Sunday.。
And then after Jesus enters Jerusalem,。
he cleansed the temple, right?。
It was a pretty, you know, angry Jesus, right?。
Not the typical gentle, soft-spoken Jesus。
that the culture has us to believe.。
But he cleansed the Jewish temple,。
and because of the corruption there,。
he turned the table and all that.。
And then he enter, Jesus enters into a series。
of controversies, a series of arguments,。
very heated debate with the religious authorities。
in Jerusalem, with the Pharisees and with the scribes。
and, you know, St. Joseph and all those people.。
So it's a very heated debate if you read Matthew 22 and 23.。
And then come to our passage today,。
Matthew 24, all of the discourse.。
So I want to remind you by going back。
a few chapters before 24,。
this is the last week of Jesus' life on earth,。
the last week.。
Remember Palm Sunday, and then cleansing the temple,。
couple of days debating and having controversies。
with the religious authorities in Jerusalem,。
and then come to Matthew 24, the all of the discourse,。
and Jesus is talking about his second coming.。
This is the last week of Jesus' life on earth.。
So let's look at this sort of a last hour sermon。
given by Jesus to his disciples.。
That is the context here.。
That is whatever being recorded in these chapters。
and following happened in the very last week,。
the last few days of Jesus' life on earth.。
And then he was crucified on the cross,。
died for our sins, and then on the third day,。
the next Sunday, he rose from the dead.。
All right?。
24, one.。
Jesus left the temple and was walking away。
when his disciples came up to him。
to call his attention to his buildings.。
Now this picture is taken on top of Mount of Olives.。
We are looking westward, as you can see,。
the old city of Jerusalem, and then beyond that,。
the high rise and the modern building,。
the modern Jerusalem, West Jerusalem, so-called.。
So this verse says,。
when they left the temple,。
the disciples were astonished by the beautiful building,。
the magnificent building of the Jerusalem temple。
in Jesus' time.。
Of course, you cannot see it right now,。
but in this picture, you can see there's a rectangular。
platform, stone-built platform, it's still standing there.。
And this is what we call the Temple Mount.。
The Temple Mount equals to 25 American football fields,。
man-made, 2,000 years ago.。
So the foundation stone is still standing there,。
19 soccer fields.。
Can you see the corner on the left?。
All the way extend beyond this picture.。
25 football fields.。
I mean, it was a magnificent building.。
If you visit Israel with me,。
I'll bring you to the Western Wall Plaza,。
all right, as your best tour guide.。
I'll bring you to the so-called Waiting Wall.。
Now we usually call Western Wall Plaza.。
As you enter the plaza, it's an open-air synagogue.。
From the floor of the plaza,。
you count seven rows of stones.。
Seven rows of stone belong to 1st century,。
in times of Jesus.。
And above that, the blue arrow, later Middle Ages。
and beyond.。
So there are at least seven levels of stones。
are Herodian stones.。
This is kind of like a picture frame being dug out。
from natural stone, very beautiful.。
1st century still standing there after 2,000 years.。
In fact, there is a Western Wall tunnel。
beneath the Western Wall Plaza.。
You go down about 100 feet below the plaza,。
you can walk alongside the 1st century Western Wall,。
about 500 meter long.。
1600 feet, five city blocks.。
The biggest stone we find is 40 feet long。
and 13 feet wide and weight about 550 metric tons.。
That one stone in the yellow box there,。
I hope you can see it, there's the edge,。
and all the way to the lady taking picture there.。
One stone, one stone.。
500 to 600 metric tons.。
That is one stone.。
A male African elephant weighs about seven metric tons.。
So that one stone equals 78 elephants.。
How did the ancient people do that?。
How would they move the stone right there, right?。
It's a remarkable engineering work.。
That's why the disciples, they came from,。
if you remember, from the village of Upper Galilee,。
from simple villages.。
They came to the urban Jerusalem。
and they saw the Herodian Temple and they were astonished.。
Of course, Jesus had different reaction.。
Jesus said, "Do you see all these things,。
"the temple buildings and the retaining walls。
"and all the building and all the structure?。
"I tell you the truth.。
"Not one stone here will be left on another.。
"Everyone will be thrown down."。
Again, this picture is taken from the top of Mount Olives。
to our west, toward the old city of Jerusalem.。
The huge rectangular platform you can still see today,。
the Temple Mount, is an extraordinary claim that Jesus made.。
Jesus is talking about the destruction of Jerusalem。
and his temple in AD 70.。
About 40 years later, it did happen。
because the Roman armies came to the capital city。
and they stormed the city and burned the city。
and teared down almost every single one of the stones.。
Now, Matthew 24 is, with this background,。
is one of the passages that actually support。
the historical reliability of the words of Jesus.。
He spoke those words, Matthew 24, 40 years before AD 70,。
40 years before the historic destruction of Jerusalem.。
So, Matthew recorded the words of Jesus。
spoken before AD 70.。
It was a prophecy fulfilled.。
Now, some people will say, "This is not true。
"because it can be prophecy written after the event,。
"after the fact, after AD 70,。
"and the disciples, because they want to exalt Jesus。
"or they want to protect or defend Jesus,。
"so they made up a story."。
But this is not likely.。
Let me tell you why.。
This is historically not likely.。
Why?。
Because if Matthew 24 is prophecy written after the fact,。
then Matthew 24, as we read the passages,。
should be more precise.。
If it is prophecy written after the fact, after AD 70,。
it should be more precise because,。
as you can see, many of the stones。
were still left standing on others, right?。
If it's prophecy written after the fact,。
then if the disciples are trying to make up a story,。
then they probably won't put some of the words。
in the mouth of Jesus, right?。
If it's prophecy after the event, trying to prove Jesus,。
they would have mentioned that the temple of Jerusalem。
was burned by fire, destroyed by fire,。
but none of those were in Matthew 24.。
So, as it stands, Matthew 24 is very likely historical.。
Words of Jesus spoken 40 years before AD 70,。
before the destruction of the temple.。
That is to say, Jesus did predict。
the destruction of the temple, and it did happen.。
Matthew, parallel passages of Matthew 24, Mark and Luke,。
faithfully reports the words of Jesus.。
And it came fulfilled.。
Now we're back to 24, we read verse three.。
As we go on, what is recorded here is that,。
as Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives,。
they exited Jerusalem and they climbed.。
It's about 15 minutes walk from the Golden Dome.。
That marks the holy of holies。
of first and second temple, right there.。
You go down the valley of Kidron,。
and then you come back to where we took the picture,。
top of Mount of Olives.。
Sitting on the Mount of Olives,。
the disciples came to him privately,。
tell us, when would this happen?。
That is, the destruction of the temple.。
What would be the sign of your coming?。
What would be the sign of the end of the age?。
So the disciples are very curious.。
They came forward to Jesus and say,。
they ask two questions.。
When will the destruction of the temple happen?。
What would be the signs?。
And what would be the signs of the end time?。
What would happen before you come back?。
Now, Matthew 24, 25 and following,。
is Jesus' answer to those two questions.。
Signs of times.。
What will you see before 80, 70?。
Before the end of time.。
Now, as we talk about the last days, according to Jesus,。
we enter into a subject called eschatology.。
Now, eschatology sounds like a big word, right?。
But it's actually very simple in terms of what it says.。
It came from a Greek word, eschaton,。
meaning ending, end time.。
The destination, the end.。
So eschatology is the study of what the Bible says。
about end times, about the last days.。
Now, in New Testament terms,。
the last days is the final chapter of human history.。
Our history.。
Our timeline is the final period.。
That final period in New Testament terms。
is between the first coming of Jesus。
and the second coming of Jesus.。
And the Bible has a lot to say about the second coming,。
besides the book of Revelation.。
It's right here, 24, verse four and following in Matthew.。
Jesus answer, "Watch out, no one deceives you.。
"For many will come in my name, claiming I am the Christ,。
"and will deceive many.。
"You will hear wars and rumors of wars,。
"but see to it that you are not alone.。
"Such things must happen.。
"But the end, the telos or the eschaton, is still to come.。
"Nation will rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom.。
"There will be famines, there will be earthquakes。
"in various places.。
"All these are the beginning of birth pains."。
So Jesus goes on to talk about the signs of end times,。
signs of time before the temple was destroyed.。
Before the end of age.。
We're not going to read it word by word,。
but let me make a list here.。
These are the things that Jesus talk about.。
The signs of times, before the destruction。
of the Jerusalem temple, before the end of our history.。
False prophets, false messiahs.。
People would go on and say, "I'm the Christ,。
"I am the prophet."。
But they are false prophets.。
These guys will come out and say words。
that will deceive many, many people.。
Number two, wars and rumors of wars.。
Civil wars, military invasions.。
Three, earthquakes, disasters.。
With natural disaster, earthquakes, comes famines.。
Number five, persecutions of the church.。
Being a believer will be in a tougher and tougher time.。
Number six, the gospel will go to the end of the earth.。
Now intuitively, intuitively, when we read those words,。
when we read the signs of times,。
we naturally think that these things are happening。
in our time, right?。
Is that true?。
Famines, earthquakes, wars, and rumors of wars.。
Kind of like a checklist, right?。
Okay, earthquake, check.。
Famines, check.。
Wars, check, check, check, right?。
We have a signs of times checklist.。
So Jesus is coming any time.。
False prophets, false messiahs,。
false prophets, right?。
Check, right?。
Can you check that?。
Couple days ago, I received an email。
from one of my online students.。
So she sent this email to me and said,。
one of her friends sent her some YouTube video.。
It's actually one in English, one in Mandarin.。
So the YouTube videos are saying。
that Russia invading Ukraine right now。
is that a fulfillment of Bible prophecy.。
Is that true or not?。
And those videos claim that to be.。
What is going on right now in Ukraine。
is a fulfillment of biblical prophecy.。
Now, those videos are referring to a passage。
in Ezekiel 38 to 39.。
38 to 39.。
It's talking about the end time again。
in different context.。
And talking about Israel final enemy.。
And that final enemies, one of them,。
or the head of them, is called the Prince of Rosh Meshach.。
Rosh Meshach, okay?。
So some of those prophecy teachers out there。
have a lot of likes on YouTube and social media.。
They will interpret this phrase.。
The final enemy of Israel is called Prince of Rosh Meshach.。
Does that sound familiar?。
They will interpret Rosh as Rus,。
changing the vowels, Russia, Meshach,。
is changing the vowels, Moscow, okay?。
All right, you got Russia and Moscow.。
What is so interesting about this passage。
is that it's talking about the final enemy of,。
the end time enemy of Israel.。
They come from the far north of Israel.。
Now, if you know the map a little bit more,。
you understand if you draw a straight line from Israel,。
according to the YouTube prophecy teachers,。
if you draw a straight line from Jerusalem northward,。
you will hit Moscow.。
That depends on how you spin the sphere, right?。
How you spin the earth.。
But if you know the background a little bit,。
Meshach is a place name.。
Refer to Asia Minor.。
Today's Turkey.。
Rosh is not a place name, never a place name.。
In the Bible, outside of the Bible,。
Assyrian records, Near Eastern records, all that.。
Rosh, never a place name.。
In fact, the term, the modern term, Russia,。
did not appear until 11th century AD, after Christ.。
More than a thousand years after the first century.。
So this passage, no matter how you interpret it,。
has nothing to do with Russia, all right?。
So one more on our checklist, false teachers,。
false prophecies, false messiahs, false prophets.。
Exactly what Jesus said, right?。
That's why Jesus start his Olivet Discourse, his sermon,。
asking his disciples to watch out.。
No one deceives you, because there are many。
false prophets out there, nowadays,。
and back in the days of Jesus as well.。
Now if you want to read the Bible,。
I want you to read the Bible well, okay?。
I want you to read the Bible well.。
Back to this list, all right?。
So forget about Russia, okay?。
Forget about Russia, it's a tragedy, all right?。
We should pray for it, we should support it,。
support the Ukrainians, you know,。
you can send money to relief funds and all that.。
Nothing to do with biblical prophecies, okay?。
However, if you want to read the Bible well,。
we must begin with the first audience in mind.。
So as we read this list of signs,。
remember this list of signs are words。
spoken to the first disciples, not to us, right?。
The first audience is not us, okay?。
So we need to read the word of Jesus。
according to their context, not our own context.。
So don't do the newspaper theology, all right?。
Okay, you know what newspaper theology is?。
Okay, we look at the headline news,。
and then we try to match what the Bible says.。
Go to the book of Revelation, go to Matthew 24,。
and try to match, okay, what event looks like this,。
and what event looks like that, right?。
No.。
If you know a little bit more。
about the first century context,。
you would know how to understand。
how the disciples understood the words of Jesus.。
Now back to this list of signs,。
Jesus is talking about the time before AD 70.。
I was in seminary for some years.。
I always wonder, you know, one seminary class,。
like New Testament studies,。
you are required to read about 3,000 to 4,000 pages。
of reading, academic reading.。
You read tons of things, right?。
You read tons of things, just for one class.。
When I was in seminary about 15, 20 years ago,。
I always wondered why we didn't spend much time。
on the literature outside of the New Testament, right?。
New Testament, of course, is a lot to read, right?。
27 books, but there are tons of things。
outside of the New Testament, extra-biblical writings,。
that should inform us about the immediate context,。
the first century context of New Testament.。
If you read the Jewish Wars, chapter five and six,。
by Josephus, a Jewish historian in Jesus' time.。
He was not a Christian,。
fairly trustworthy in general, a historian.。
He wrote tons of things,。
and Josephus talks so much about the time before AD 70,。
before the destruction of the Jerusalem temple。
by the Romans.。
He mentioned false prophets.。
Many people claimed to be the prophets.。
Josephus talks about wars, and rumors of wars.。
Earthquakes happening in Italy, in the land of Palestine,。
in Turkey, in today's Turkey, famines.。
So if you go with this list,。
you go to Josephus, Jewish War, chapter five and six,。
you actually can check off quite a bit from this list.。
Jesus was referring to his generation,。
AD 30 to AD 70, 40 years.。
What happened in their world?。
It was such a chaos, right?。
Of course, persecution of the church,。
Josephus did not mention much,。
but you can tell from just New Testament writings alone.。
Persecution of the church.。
So many of the things mentioned by Jesus。
happened in the first century.。
Josephus was one of the eyewitnesses.。
The first generations of Jewish Christians,。
they saw all of this.。
But how about gospel to the end of the earth?。
You ask the question, no way that happened。
in the first generation, right?。
We have internet, we have IG, we have social media,。
now we can do that, right?。
Back then, no way.。
Well, you check some other New Testament passages。
like Colossians 1, 5 to 6.。
Paul wrote the gospel that has come to you, Colossians.。
All over the world, this gospel is bearing fruit。
and growing.。
1, 23 and other passages in Romans also talk about。
this gospel has been proclaimed。
to every creature under heaven.。
So in some sense, in real sense,。
the gospel has already reached。
over, all over the known world of the apostles.。
In some sense, in some real sense,。
because all over the world can mean all sorts of people.。
When the Jewish Christians broke out of Jerusalem。
and spread the gospel everywhere they went,。
they bring the gospel with them.。
So all sorts of people are hearing the gospel.。
The Greco-Roman world, the non-Jewish world,。
they heard the gospel.。
So they have seen all the signs。
and they have the reasons to expect。
the second coming of Jesus happening anytime,。
especially when they saw the destruction。
of Jerusalem temple in 1870.。
Now, of course, there were many things in Matthew 24.。
Some of them are fulfilled in the first generation。
and some of them are pointing beyond 1870。
to the end of the age.。
We can go through more details next time,。
but in any case, I want to wrap up today's message。
by this timeline, this chart.。
If you want to understand what Jesus,。
what the New Testament talks about end times,。
this is the chart.。
The bottom line is our age.。
It will come to the end and Jesus has come.。
The first coming of Jesus happened already.。
But when Jesus came, he came with power.。
He brings in the future age,。
the new heaven, new earth.。
In some sense, in a very real sense,。
because of first coming of Jesus,。
the next age, what we call heaven,。
but actually it's heaven and earth,。
new heaven and earth,。
has already been in breaking into our age.。
That is the top arrow right there.。
So right now, we are living in kind of in between,。
between first coming and second coming of Christ.。
The future age, in some sense, fundamentally,。
spiritually, in a very real sense,。
has already in breaking into our age.。
So we are in this in between time,。
we can call it already, but not yet.。
Already, meaning that the future age。
is no longer just in the future.。
It is now, the kingdom of God is now in our hearts,。
in our midst.。
The spirit is working in our hearts and our lives.。
The future age has come here,。
already been inaugurated,。
already been in breaking into our present age.。
Now, most of the signs have happened。
in the first coming of Jesus, as I told you, AD 70.。
But the end of our age,。
with the second coming of Christ, is not yet.。
Therefore, when you think of our time,。
we're living in this time in between.。
It's a already, but not yet.。
However, we are definitely getting closer and closer。
to the eschaton, to the second coming of Christ.。
That's why Jesus said,。
"You do not know when exactly I will come,。
"but I will come any time."。
Right?。
I will come any time.。
Now, this realization should affect how we live today.。
Already, meaning the future kingdom has made an in-breaking。
into your world, into your life.。
And you are no longer what you used to be,。
because the life of the kingdom of God。
has already been a reality in your life.。
However, not yet.。
On this side of heaven, we're not in heaven yet.。
We're not in heaven in new earth yet.。
But it will happen any time.。
Now, we modern people are very impatient.。
Right?。
Where are we?。
If you say, in Matthew 24, go through the checklist,。
the first generation of disciples,。
they understood all the signs have been fulfilled.。
In their generation, AD 30 to AD 70.。
That means, in hindsight, from our perspective now,。
the first generation of disciples,。
they were living in the beginning of the end time.。
How about us?。
We are living at the end of the end time.。
They were expecting the second coming of Jesus.。
We are also expecting the coming of Jesus.。
Yeah, we say, why the delay, right?。
2,000 years, come on, man.。
If you come, please come, right?。
When are you coming?。
Well, let me remind you, we have one verse。
from 2 Peter 3.8.。
But do not forget this one thing, dear friends.。
With the Lord, a day is like 1,000 years.。
And 1,000 years are like a day.。
The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise,。
as some understand slowness.。
God is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish,。
but everyone to come to repentance.。
One day is like 1,000 years in God's sight.。
So if you remember this chart,。
so far in God's timing, it's only two days.。
Right?。
Remember what you did two days ago?。
Remember what you did yesterday?。
You may have forgotten, right?。
It's gone like that.。
In God's timing, two days only.。
However, Jesus keeps reminding us to wait patiently,。
and to wait and be alert, and be prepared, right?。
Be prepared for the coming of our Lord.。
Because we need to give an account of our lives.。
How do we use our time, our treasure, our talents?。
Right?。
The three Ts.。
How do we use our time and treasure,。
and our resources?。
Do we use it to extend and advance the gospel?。
To extend the kingdom?。
Or do we just bury it underground, right?。
We need to give an account, and we need to wait and prepare.。
Prepare for the coming of our Lord anytime, anytime soon.。
When I was a really young kid, all right?。
I was in Hong Kong back then.。
Sometimes my mom, in the afternoon,。
she would say to me, with some tone of warning,。
she would say to me, "Wait 'til your dad comes back."。
It's a very meaningful sentence.。
Now, you could have two different reactions, right?。
As a small kid, right?。
Wait 'til your dad comes back.。
The first reaction, of course, is you're afraid, right?。
You have done something wrong.。
And you should repent.。
And then you can wait in fear.。
That's your first reaction.。
The second reaction, as a small kid,。
wait 'til your dad comes back.。
That you're excited for the coming of your dad,。
because you have done well.。
Well, as Asian, you have done well in school, right?。
And then you actually anticipate。
the coming of your father, right?。
Either or, either you're afraid,。
or you're anticipating the coming of the Lord.。
There's no time to waste, guys.。
We are living in the end of the end times, right?。
Now, I'm not suggesting, okay, please understand,。
I'm not suggesting, okay, let's quit our day job,。
and then we get together, we worship here, okay?。
Sell off all of your properties,。
you bought a new house, sell it, all right?。
If you have any stock, you can sell it, okay?。
We're gonna gather here, and then we'll wait。
for the alien to come, and something like that.。
I'm not suggesting that.。
And in fact, the first century Christians,。
they were eagerly expecting the second coming。
of Jesus Christ.。
They never done something like that, right?。
Only the occult, or the cults would do that, right?。
What did they do?。
First generation of Christians.。
They expect, they saw the signs.。
What did they do?。
They set the orientation of their life。
toward the future kingdom.。
No matter what they do, whether they are farmers,。
they are slaves, they are masters, they are businessmen,。
they orient their direction toward the kingdom,。
toward the second coming of Christ.。
We are living at the end of the age.。
Set your orientation, set your direction.。
Toward the coming kingdom, toward the coming Christ.。
If you are going to school, pray and be alert.。
Do your, go through your school with the wrong direction,。
with the general direction to glorify God, right?。
If you're working adults, do so to honor God。
with your three Ts, your time, your talent,。
and your treasure, to advance the kingdom of God, all right?。
So if you understand eschatology in the Bible,。
it doesn't do any sort of escape reality.。
It's not escape game, all right?。
It's not like we get together and then we wait。
for Jesus to come and then, okay,。
we'll be raptured out of this world, right?。
It's not escape, it's to engage.。
The New Testament eschatology tells you and me。
that we are future people.。
We are in some sense from the future。
because our home is in the future.。
Whatever characterize our future home,。
love, peace, righteousness, justice, we bring it over here.。
We make it the reality.。
Now this is the life transforming idea.。
If we understand we are living at the end of the end time。
and Jesus is coming back anytime soon,。
we are called to change our orientation of our lives。
toward the new creation.。
That is the gospel.。
That is the gospel.。
I hope you and I are ready,。
ready for the second coming of Christ,。
ready to give an account to our master, to our Lord, right?。
You know, give what you have, right?。
Give what you have toward the kingdom.。
Be a good steward, biblical stewardship.。
How you manage your time, are you wasting your time?。
How you manage your resource, are you wasting your resource。
for something unrelated to the gospel,。
unrelated to the kingdom?。
We repent and we change.。
And we yearn for the coming back of Jesus Christ.。
Let's all pray together.。
Dear God, we give you thanks。
for you are the master of history.。
You created us all.。
You are the creator and you are also the redeemer.。
You are the Lord of our history.。
Help us understand we are living in the end of the end times。
and we are expecting your coming.。
And we pray that we will anticipate your coming,。
not in fear, but in faith.。
Help us to use our resources to extend your kingdom,。
to worship you, to serve you.。
Use our time, our talents, our treasure to honor your name,。
to extend your gospel,。
to let your gospel reach to the end of the earth.。
There are so many people。
haven't heard of the name of Jesus.。
There are so many people who have not received the gospel.。
And we're gonna send our missionaries。
and we're gonna support the movement of the gospel.。
We're gonna build up your church。
so that your name will be glorified.。
And we pray that you will help us to be faithful stewards。
of the things that you have given to us.。
No matter we are in school, in work, in our family,。
in our marriage, we wanna do it to honor your name,。
to make your name famous.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen, right?。
