- Right.。
Well, this is a time of craziness.。
It's a time of chaos.。
We still in the midst of a pandemic,。
two years long, right?。
Probably something at the end of a tunnel.。
I don't know yet, right?。
We don't know yet.。
So we just put on masks for now, right?。
Except those who are singing or speaking,。
just for the sake of clarity.。
So you look around, there's so much uncertainty.。
And last week, the horrible news。
of Russians invading Ukraine, that is horrible.。
You read all the stories and all the news reports.。
It's just time of chaos.。
Sometimes in times of crisis,。
we will think of what the Bible says.。
We try to find answers from the word of God.。
And sometimes we think of words from the Bible。
saying in the end times,。
there will be war and conflicts on the earth.。
Or sometimes we think of the book of Revelation, right?。
I'm sure you have read this book.。
It's very easy to find as the last book of the Bible,。
the last book in the New Testament.。
But it's a very strange book.。
It's a very difficult book to tackle.。
So today, we would like to start a kind of a mini series.。
We'll see how it goes.。
And we will take some passages from the book of Revelation。
and learn how to read it, learn how to understand it.。
Especially we know the Bible,。
even though it's not directly written to us,。
but it's definitely written for us.。
So how do we read that?。
I chose this book, book of Revelation,。
because at times of crisis,。
sometimes we go to this book and say,。
you see, this is what the Bible predicted.。
And this is what the book of Revelation is all about, right?。
We look at the conflicts, happened last week,。
and we look at all these tensions,。
international tensions or pandemic,。
or just unrest, just look around.。
And we go back to the Bible and say,。
hey, this is what the book says, right?。
This is what the book predicted.。
So how true is that, right?。
So I want you to think with me how to understand this book,。
how to understand the book of Revelation.。
If you remember last week,。
I told you to do something, right?。
Every day, turn to the Bible,。
10 to 15 minutes in prayer, right?。
Reading the word of God, you know,。
absorbing the word of God.。
Did you do that?。
All right, I'll make sure you do it, okay?。
Make sure you do it.。
But sometimes there are passages in the Bible,。
some portions in the Bible,。
it's very difficult to do devotion those out of, right?。
Including the book of Revelation.。
So we wanna turn to this book, book of Revelation.。
If you have your Bible in your phone app, turn to it now.。
In your languages, there will also be passages。
we project on the screen.。
We'll start with chapter one.。
The revelation of Jesus Christ,。
which God gave him to show his servants。
what must soon take place.。
He made known by sending his angel to servant John,。
the apostle John.。
He testifies to everything he saw.。
That is the word of God, the testimony of Jesus Christ.。
Blessed is the one who reads the words of the prophecies.。
The book of Revelation, this book.。
Blessed is the one who reads the words of this book.。
And blessed are those who hear it and take to heart。
what is written in it.。
Because the time is near, the time of Jesus' second coming.。
He came 2,000 years ago into human history。
and accomplished salvation for us on the cross.。
But he will come back.。
The book of Revelation is all about the second coming.。
What will happen, what will soon take place?。
The first word, apocalypses.。
This is the word very familiar to us, right?。
Because we get the English word apocalypse out of this word.。
Remember two years ago when we first locked down,。
I went out with my two children to pick up some takeouts。
from a restaurant.。
It was March, right?。
2020, right?。
2020.。
So it was at night.。
So we drove out there to a restaurant nearby.。
We're trying to pick up some takeouts for dinner.。
It was the first day of lockdown and we drove on the street.。
And it was quite a sight.。
Because as you know, in Chicago,。
you know, the traffic is crazy, right?。
All the time.。
But it was the first day of lockdown。
and the street is totally empty.。
It was like a ghost town.。
It was kind of crazy, right?。
This is how we describe situations like this.。
Apocalypse, right?。
It's the modern meaning of the word apocalypse.。
Means doomsday, right?。
Destruction of all kinds.。
But originally in the first century,。
when this word is spoken,。
the basic meanings means uncover, disclose.。
Something which was unknown before.。
Now it's being revealed.。
So that is what apocalypse means.。
The revelation of Jesus Christ.。
Reveal something to us that is not known before.。
What is it?。
What must soon take place。
before the second coming of Christ?。
And then the passage goes on to explain to us。
what is the situation.。
Verse four, John the apostle,。
writing a letter to seven churches in the province of Asia,。
which is today's Turkey.。
John, your brother, I am with you guys.。
Company in suffering and kingdom and patient.。
And patience.。
And doings.。
There are hours in Jesus.。
Who, John is saying that I'm writing it。
from the island of Patmos,。
which is a small island。
off the coast of Ephesus from Turkey.。
So he was exiled, why?。
Because the Roman Empire was oppressing the churches,。
the early churches in those days.。
It was kind of the 1890s,。
so '90s after Christ.。
So the Roman Emperor was instituting。
some sort of systematic persecution,。
systematic pressure on the early church.。
So it was time of crisis for the church.。
And then John was exiled。
because he was one of the leaders, one of the pastors.。
He was exiled on Patmos, on the island.。
And he was suffering with other brothers and sisters。
who were in the mainland under the Roman persecution.。
So this is what the book of Revelation is all about.。
Sometimes we describe the book of Revelation。
as some special type of literature.。
We call this type of literature apocalyptic literature.。
And what it says is it's a group。
or a collection of many different writings,。
different kinds of writings.。
Some of them end up in the New Testament.。
Some of them is outside the New Testament.。
Some are written by Jewish writers,。
some are by early Christian writers.。
And they have some commonalities.。
You know, think of Old Testament, the book of Daniel,。
or some chapters in Ezekiel.。
Some of the passages in the Gospels or Paul's letters.。
Some common languages all these writings would use,。
including the book of Revelation.。
So as we turn to the book of Revelation,。
it's a strange book, right?。
It talks about horses, it talks about locusts,。
it talks about all kinds of strange phenomenon。
that is foreign to us.。
But you need to remember this.。
This sort of writings, apocalyptic literature,。
is written to the people of God who are in crisis。
in order to encourage them,。
in order to let them see what the real reality is.。
It's not what you see here now.。
It's something happening in the future,。
and something happening above,。
in another realm, in the heavenly realm.。
What is really happening?。
You see conflicts on Earth,。
but there's spiritual warfare,。
which is so real up there and in soon future.。
So the book of Revelation or apocalyptic literature。
is trying to write to,。
to say to the people of God who are under pressure,。
their faith is being tested.。
And the purpose is to help them see a different reality。
so that they will find hope in God.。
They will not find hope on Earth.。
They will be encouraged in times of chaos.。
Don't we all need that?。
We need this today, right?。
We see conflicts and we see chaos。
and uncertainties,。
all sorts of crazy things happening in our world.。
What is going on?。
And the apocalyptic literature,。
especially the book of Revelation,。
is trying to talk to us.。
It's a message written for us。
so that we will understand what God is doing.。
So the first three chapters,。
we're not going to go into details,。
but first three chapters is actually Apostle John。
writing seven letters to seven churches.。
And they will circulate those letters。
and to encourage the churches。
who are under trials and temptations.。
And then in chapter four,。
the Apostle John is being lifted up,。
being taken away from the Earth.。
And he entered into the heavenly realm.。
And he saw something like a Roman Empire royal court,。
like the king's court, right?。
Going to the White House up there.。
So he looked around and see who is seated on the floor.。
It's not the Roman emperor.。
It's not Caesar.。
He saw who is seated on the floor is God himself.。
Is the God of history.。
The God who's still in control.。
And then it launched many, many different chapters。
talking about the visions that he saw.。
And he reported back to the churches.。
Let's take a look.。
Chapter five.。
Let me get this ready.。
It's so dark here.。
Hold on one second.。
All right.。
Chapter five, verse one.。
See that?。
Chapter five, verse one.。
Then I saw in the right hand of him,。
who sat on the floor,。
a scroll with writing on both sides。
and sealed with seven seals.。
I saw a mighty angel proclaiming in a loud voice,。
who is worthy to break the seals and open the scroll.。
But no one in heaven or on earth,。
under the earth could open the scroll。
or even look inside it.。
So I wept and wept。
because no one was found who has authority,。
who was worthy to open the scroll。
to see what is written inside.。
Now in the ancient world,。
important information is always written on the scroll.。
Made of animal skin or paper.。
And then they roll it up。
and then they put some lumps of clay。
on top of the roll up document.。
And then someone who has authority。
with a ring or with a stamp,。
will put the stamp on the lump of clay。
and seal it, close it up,。
and archive it in the royal bank。
or royal building or temple, anywhere important.。
In the, say in today's language,。
the White House office, right?。
In the government archive.。
So whoever wants to check what was written in the document,。
he has to bring his stamp or the ring。
and to match with the impression on the clay。
to break the seal and open it up.。
Now what John saw was this.。
He saw a scroll with seven seals.。
The document is closed up.。
But he found no one who could open the scroll.。
What is written inside the scroll。
is definitely words of judgment.。
If you have some Old Testament background,。
you understand a scroll written,。
words with front and back all over the place.。
Book of Ezekiel, talking about the word of judgment from God.。
He will vindicate the oppressed,。
vindicate the people of God.。
He will help the people of God。
and will bring judgment on the oppressor,。
on the evil forces that is pressing down on the church.。
John found no one having the authority to open the scroll.。
So what will happen?。
Nobody knows.。
What is the fate?。
What is happening to the church?。
What will look like tomorrow?。
Nobody can tell.。
That's why he was weeping.。
Nobody can be found to open the scroll,。
to tell us who is in control tomorrow, right?。
Especially in the church。
when they were under so much pressure.。
Then in verse five,。
then one of the elders who was worshiping in the throne room。
said to me, "Do not weep.。
See the lion from the tribe of Judah, the root of David.。
He has triumph.。
He is able, he has the authority to open the scroll。
and his seven seals.。
Finally, the lamb of God, who was slain and rose again.。
He is also the lion from the tribe of Judah,。
from the tribe of David.。
He is the real conquering king.。
He has conquered death and evil,。
and he has the authority to open and break the seal,。
to help us see what will soon happen.。
Who is in charge tomorrow?"。
So chapter six, six verse one.。
"I saw as the lamb opened the first of the seven seals,。
that I heard one of the four living creatures, the angels,。
say in a voice like thunder, 'Come!'"。
Verse two.。
"I look, and there before me was a white horse.。
Its rider holding a bow.。
He was given a crown, and he rode out as a conqueror,。
bent on conquest."。
Now definitely this is some strange images for us.。
For sure, this is negative.。
It's a world of judgment, right?。
So definitely it's judgment of God。
against the church oppressor, right?。
God will do something to stop the oppression.。
God will do something to the evil empire.。
And definitely in this image, we see war, white horse,。
rider holding a bow, conquest, military image.。
Now here's what we struggle with,。
because we modern readers, we modern people,。
we often misunderstand the images。
from the book of Revelation.。
There are all sorts of, we're trying to read our own meaning。
into the text, right?。
We try to impose our own understanding onto the text.。
Let me demonstrate how,。
you probably heard something like this.。
Many people would misinterpret the images here.。
Let me demonstrate how to do it wrongly, okay?。
All right?。
Let me try to demonstrate how to do it wrongly.。
And this is so wrong, okay?。
So you see in this image, there's color white.。
There's white horse, right?。
And you see, no, military conflict, right?。
Conquest.。
Let me demonstrate.。
You see the flag of Russia has white color, right?。
White, blue, and red, right?。
White, bingo.。
You got Revelation chapter six, white horse, right?。
And then if you Google white horse Putin,。
you find pictures like this, right?。
Bingo.。
Revelation six, right?。
That's the first seal being broken, right?。
And then you say, "Ha ha, you know, prophecy fulfilled.。
"2,000 years ago it was written there, right?。
"Chapter six of Revelation, the first seal, right?。
"Last week it happened, it broke the seal."。
(laughs)。
You see a lot of misinterpretation,。
just so wrong these days, you know?。
Because we just don't know how to interpret。
this sort of, you know, imageries.。
They're strange to us.。
Now I want to tell you how to read the Bible,。
especially the book of Revelation.。
The Bible, the book of Revelation,。
is not written to us, right?。
It's not directly written to us.。
It was originally in Greek, not in English,。
not in Chinese, not in any contemporary languages.。
It was written in Greek.。
It's not written to us, but it's written for us.。
So when we try to understand what is going on here,。
we should stop from reading our own meaning onto the text.。
We should ask, how did the first audience,。
the early churches in the first century,。
how would they understand these images, right?。
So this is totally wrong, okay?。
Don't take it home, all right?。
Don't take it home.。
This is the wrong interpretation.。
But you see this kind of problem。
whenever we try to understand。
what the book of Revelation is all about?。
Don't do that.。
Instead, we ask, how would the first century Christians。
understand the imageries?。
White horse rider with a bow.。
Let me show you some.。
Ancient coins.。
Parthian coins, all right?。
Do you see a soldier holding a bow?。
Yeah, the triangular thing, right?。
It's not very clear, but it definitely is a bow, okay?。
And then underneath, horses, right?。
White horse.。
And the king was riding on the horse.。
These are Parthian coins.。
And it just happened for the ancient Parthian empire,。
the sacred color happens to be white.。
In their army, there's always white horses.。
Let's take a look at the map.。
The Roman Empire on the left,。
the Parthian Empire on the right.。
For 400 years, this is the ancient, powerful empire.。
It always posed a military threat。
to the eastern border of Roman Empire, the Parthian Empire.。
In fact, the Roman historians,。
when they talk about the threat against the empire,。
the old Roman Empire,。
they would talk about the Parthian Empire.。
In those days, even the Jewish people。
living on the east coast, the east border,。
the land of Palestine,。
from time to time when they talk about the last day,。
the final battle, right?。
Some big battle would happen.。
They would say the Parthians would be involved.。
In fact, in first century,。
there were two major battles。
fought between the Romans and the Parthians.。
Two times, the Parthians successfully challenged Rome.。
So most probably,。
the first seal, white horse, rider with a bow,。
will remind the first audience, the first century audience,。
the Roman audience, their greatest enemy,。
most likely, are the Parthians.。
Now, you will continue and ask and say,。
hey, I know a little bit about ancient history.。
The fall of Rome didn't happen until AD 400 something.。
Right, 476.。
And the fall of Rome was not caused by the eastern Parthians.。
It's actually caused by the northern barbarians.。
It was the barbarians' job, right?。
Brought down the Roman Empire.。
Does it mean Revelation is wrong?。
No, because the imagery is very flexible.。
The imagery is, don't even talk about taking over Rome, right?。
The imagery, the first seal,。
the white horse rider with a bow,。
it simply means military pressure or military threat.。
It's a common image that John used in the first century.。
They are scared by the Parthians,。
the Romans are scared by the Parthians.。
To use this image is to communicate a message,。
a message of judgment,。
a message to remind the Roman Empire,。
remind the first audience who are under persecution。
by the Roman Empire, that Roman,。
the Romans are not that powerful, right?。
That's the first seal, that's the message.。
It's the same thing that we use the image of。
Osama Bin Laden to challenge the American power, right?。
Now Osama Bin Laden is already gone, right?。
But the message is there, right?。
To remind us the weakness, the vulnerability of the empire.。
It's the same thing happening here in chapter six,。
first seal.。
So the message is, in God's eyes,。
the empire oppressing the church will fail.。
It will fall.。
It looks very powerful, but it's not.。
The first seal is talking about this.。
So it talks about the evil empire,。
the evil force will fall one day.。
Not because of the Parthians, but because of God himself.。
So as you read the book of Revelation,。
you will find out who is really the one。
who brings down the evil empire, 1115.。
Now it talks about, it already talk about the seven seals.。
Now it talks about the seven trumpets,。
and later on talk about seven bows, okay?。
Now we're right in the middle, seven trumpets.。
The seventh angel sang his trumpet,。
and there were loud voices in heaven which said,。
the kingdom of God has become the kingdom of our Lord。
and his Christ, and Christ will reign forever and ever.。
Christ is the one who finally, ultimately,。
will bring down all this evil forces,。
and behind all this forces is Satan himself.。
So as you can tell, the book of Revelation。
is not news report written ahead of time.。
Now don't go to the book of Revelation and say,。
this is newspaper, today's newspaper,。
written 2,000 years ago.。
No, that is wrong interpretation.。
That is a misunderstanding.。
The book of Revelation also is not a weather forecast.。
It's not telling us, okay, tomorrow three o'clock p.m.。
it will rain, it will snow, or something like that.。
The book of Revelation does not intend to tell you。
when things happen, and how things happen exactly.。
It doesn't do that.。
Apocalyptic literature doesn't do this.。
It doesn't answer our questions.。
Our most interesting question is when and how, right?。
When does it happen?。
When will Christ come back?。
What will it look like, right?。
These are our questions, the when and how questions.。
The book of Revelation is answering some other question,。
some more important question, which is the who question.。
Who is in charge, and who is in control。
in the human history?。
When you see chaos out there,。
when you see everything is not right,。
who is the real Lord, who is in control?。
So it's not weather forecast,。
it's not newspaper within the head of time.。
No.。
Perhaps a better analogy is to think。
Revelation as a syllabus.。
You all go to school, right?。
You receive a syllabus on the first day, right?。
It tells you the professor's name,。
the course name, classroom, and then the schedule, right?。
Okay, it's Monday, Wednesday, Friday,。
which assignment will be due,。
and what lessons will be taught,。
and how you prepare for that, right?。
And then when's the midterm, when's the final exam, right?。
And then, let's say, for example,。
you walk into your classroom one day, right?。
It was the day of midterm.。
So you sit in the classroom,。
and then the professor came in,。
the teacher came in and gave you the midterm exam.。
Okay, you got your midterm exam,。
and say, "Wow, prophecy came true.。
"It's really the midterm."。
Would you say that?。
Of course not.。
Of course not, because as you understand,。
this is a syllabus, right?。
It told you ahead of time,。
not in the sense of prediction,。
but in the sense that it's a plan, right?。
The plan the professor has already given you。
in the first day, right?。
And it also tells you who is the agency。
behind the syllabus, who is making things happen,。
who is fulfilling or accomplishing。
all those things printed on the syllabus, right?。
Who is the planner, the teacher?。
Who is the executor, the teacher himself,。
the professor himself?。
So you walk in on the day of midterm,。
and say, "That's right.。
"That's how he planned.。
"We are working out and going along with his plan."。
And the teacher has the authority。
to execute exactly everything according to the syllabus.。
Human history is divine syllabus.。
What we see in human history,。
what we see happening in our world,。
is the syllabus of God himself,。
the heavenly Lord, the King of kings.。
He has written the syllabus.。
That is the message, that is the theology。
of the book of Revelation.。
God is in control of the syllabus.。
God is in control of human history.。
So no matter what happens in history,。
no matter what happens in your life and in my life,。
even though we see churches being persecuted in China,。
in some of the Muslim countries,。
churches, brothers and sisters being persecuted,。
you go back to history, you go back to syllabus,。
you know that behind it, there is someone in control,。
and God is still in control.。
Everything that we see in your life, in my life,。
is according to the entire syllabus。
set out by God himself.。
God will do all things according to his word,。
according to his syllabus.。
That's why we can trust him.。
That's why we should find hope in him.。
Now that's what Revelation。
or Apocalypse literature is trying to do,。
is to tell us we can find hope only in him.。
He is the one who is guarding and accomplishing,。
planning, executing the syllabus, right on his timing.。
Even though we have questions we cannot answer,。
even though we see crisis,。
we try to find out the reasons behind it,。
sometimes we don't.。
But look, everything is according to the syllabus of God.。
Everything is according to his plan.。
So we can trust him.。
We find hope in God so that we can inform。
our own present living.。
We will not be hijacked by fear, right, and unbelief.。
Because we know everything will be according to his word.。
He is the faithful God who will execute everything.。
Even though we don't have all the detailed answers,。
but yes, we can trust in him.。
I'm sure in the past week or so,。
you got a lot of news stories。
about what is going on in our world.。
You probably heard a lot of news stories。
or some really sad reports from the Ukraine crisis.。
I received a lot too.。
I want to share one of those with you.。
The president of Ukrainian Baptist Theological Seminary.。
Crisis came and he said,。
"Now the church will go underground.。
"We had that under the Soviet Union。
"and the church did not forget,。
"should never forget what it means to be persecuted.。
"We, the church, will rearrange,。
"reorganize and do what we always do."。
Preach the gospel.。
Isn't that true?。
Isn't that true if we find our hope,。
our ultimate anchor,。
nothing in the world but Christ himself。
who is in control of human history.。
If he is in control, then this hope,。
this promise will inform how we react in times of crisis.。
We will reorganize.。
We will do what we always do。
or what we always called to do,。
to preach the gospel,。
to live a life of Christ follower.。
Nothing will change.。
Yes, there are times in darkness。
and sometimes we feel darkness is so overwhelming。
and the evil forces seem invincible, very powerful.。
But the book of Revelation is reminding us。
all these evil forces are not omnipotent.。
They are not all powerful.。
They are limited.。
God himself is omnipotent.。
God himself is all powerful.。
We still preach the gospel.。
We still live for the kingdom.。
Don't be hijacked by all this fear and uncertainties.。
Your history is the syllabus of God.。
Yes, we have a lot of questions without answers,。
but that's okay.。
Midterm will come.。
The final exam will come.。
God will do according to his word.。
Let me close with chapter five, verse five.。
Then one of the elders said to me,。
"Do not weep.。
"See the lion of the tribe of Judah,。
"the root of David, has triumphed.。
"He is able to open the scroll and the seven seals."。
Let us all pray.。
Father God, our Lord Jesus Christ,。
you are the one in control。
and you are the only king that is worthy of our praises.。
(pensive music)。
We face times of uncertainty and crisis。
and we're living in a time of chaos.。
No matter what we face,。
remind us once again with the heavenly vision。
that you are the one who is in control.。
That our own personal life, world history even,。
is in your syllabus, is in your plan.。
Yes, we see evil forces all around us.。
We see chaos and crisis.。
We even see some of the people。
who are living less fortunate than us.。
They are facing persecutions.。
Our dear brothers and sisters in other places,。
they are less fortunate than us.。
Yes, we see a lot of things that are not going right.。
And it seems to us the evil is having the upper hand.。
But remind us once again that Christ our Lord,。
the Lamb of God, who was slain on the cross。
and rose again from the tomb,。
you are the one who is in charge.。
And we pray that our own personal life。
will dedicate ourselves again to you.。
I pray that you will increase our trust and faith in you.。
You will increase our love for you.。
We still do what we are always called to do,。
is to live according to your will,。
to preach the gospel, to build up your church,。
to serve you with our gifts.。
And pray that you will continue to renew us,。
renew our perspective.。
To live faithfully in your sight,。
to live faithfully according to your word,。
to hear your word and to apply it into our lives.。
May our lives be pleasing to you.。
In Christ name we pray, amen.。
