- Hey, welcome to all of you.。
And some of our folks are actually out of town,。
so we have less people here, but that's okay.。
We're gonna worship together,。
and I pray that you will open the Bible。
and turn to the book of Proverbs,。
and we're going to think about what it means to be a father.。
Today's Father's Day, right?。
Yeah, happy Father's Day to all the fathers here, okay?。
That's me.。
(audience laughing)。
And then soon to be father, happy Father's Day.。
I wanna start with a question.。
What do you think of when you see this word, father?。
Father.。
What kind of image do you have in mind?。
Do you think of father, fatherhood?。
Do you think of courage, loyalty, faithfulness?。
Responsibilities, loyalty, wisdom, perhaps?。
Do you think of that, those terms?。
You do?。
All right.。
But most of the time, I think, sadly,。
we are in a crisis of fatherhood,。
and absentee father, probably you can think of that。
when you see father, or think about father,。
abusive father, detached father,。
or angry father.。
I don't know what you think of,。
especially in the Asian context.。
Sometimes we think of all sorts of negative images。
related to fatherhood.。
According to some of the numbers,。
24 million children in United States,。
they grow up without a biological father.。
So that's one in three, right?。
That's a pretty big number, right?。
One out of three children, you know,。
growing up without a biological dad in their home.。
That is the crisis of fatherhood,。
and that leads to all sorts of different crises。
about your personal development,。
about our personal identity,。
about how we anchor who we are with our fathers.。
So that's a huge crisis,。
and that's why we need to talk about this, okay?。
Today's Father's Day, and I would like to think。
a little bit more about what it means to be a father,。
and hopefully this will not be applicable。
only to fathers, but to all of us.。
Think of the fathers in the Bible.。
Any negative examples in the Bible?。
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob?。
They're not colorful or beautiful figures most of the time.。
They have their own weaknesses and brokenness, right?。
Think of Jacob, right?。
He favored one of his sons, right?。
Joseph, and brings about some sort of family emergency。
or family crisis.。
He almost breaks apart the entire family。
because of his favoritism on Joseph,。
destroying the family of God.。
Without the grace of God at the end of the book of Genesis,。
the family cannot be safe, right?。
So negative image of father.。
And then probably you can think of some positive image。
of a father from the Bible, right?。
Joseph, New Testament, Jesus' earthly father, right?。
Being described as righteous, right?。
Obedient to Torah.。
Father Abraham, again, he believed in God。
and God credited him righteousness, right?。
He trusted in God.。
So there's some mixed complexity。
with all the fathers in the Bible.。
But I think this is good news.。
The good news is that even with our own brokenness,。
I'm somebody's father and I struggle with my own witnesses.。
I struggle with my, you know, there's all sorts of things.。
Brokenness, in order to be a father,。
I try to be a father that is pleasing to God.。
And I think this is good news when we see, you know,。
all sorts of different positive fathers。
or negative fathers in the Bible.。
And the grace of God is always sufficient.。
It's always abundant.。
And only if we have the courage,。
only if we have the humility to come before God。
to be shaped by the grace of God.。
So today, I hope the message will not be。
just applicable to the fathers, but to all of us.。
Now, if you turn to your Bible,。
in the middle part of the Bible, there are five books.。
Job, Psalm, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Psalms.。
These five books, what we call together,。
is the body of literature.。
We call them wisdom literature.。
Wisdom literature.。
And each of these books has its own way。
to show the life of wisdom.。
What does it mean to live wisely?。
And in the context of today,。
father is often teaching the son,。
like in the book of Proverbs, Ecclesiastes,。
Psalm of Psalms, teaching the son and the daughter。
how to behave, how to live a life of wisdom.。
So there we go.。
We have a huge body of literature。
right in the middle of the Bible,。
showing us what it means to live a life of wisdom.。
Will you consider yourself wise?。
How many of you would consider yourself,。
I have some wisdom?。
You know, how many of you?。
All right, you guys are very humble.。
You know, this is interesting。
about wisdom literature in the Bible.。
You know, wisdom literature, if you read carefully,。
if you think about it carefully,。
it is different from all other different writings。
of the Bible, like the prophetical books.。
Some of the writings are written in such a way。
that truth comes from above.。
Thus says the Lord, right?。
The prophet said.。
Thus says the Lord, this is what Yahweh said.。
So you have to obey, right?。
Wisdom literature is a little bit different.。
Actually, in terms of direction,。
wisdom literature from below.。
It's all, it often gives us some sort of,。
you know, from observation to insight.。
So the wise, the wise teacher in the book of Proverbs,。
for example, he moves from observation to truth.。
He observed there's a divine order in the world.。
Of course, the universe is complex and just,。
you know, finely tuned.。
It's amazing.。
But the wise teacher moves a little bit forward。
and says not only the universe is designed。
and created by God, and it's amazing by itself,。
he perceives there's an order in the universe.。
And that order is not just a physical order,。
but a moral order, a spiritual order.。
And that spiritual order, he perceives and he observed.。
And then he got some insights and spiritual insights。
and lessons to how to live a godly life.。
That is what wisdom is all about.。
Wisdom in the biblical sense is practical skill,。
how to live a beautiful life,。
how to live a life, a godly life that is pleasing to God.。
That is wisdom in the Bible.。
So because you guys are all wise,。
I want to give you some questions, okay?。
So I'll give you a picture,。
and you tell me what kind of insight。
you can get out of it.。
All right, you ready?。
All right, let me show you this.。
So when you see something like this,。
okay, when you see something like this,。
what kind of insight can you get?。
Where you see this picture?。
Home Depot, right?。
A door hinge, right?。
A door hinge.。
What kind of practical wisdom can you get out of it, right?。
It's kind of strange, right?。
Why you show me this picture on the worship?。
And, right?。
What do you see?。
The wise teacher will come and observe something,。
and how the door hinge works,。
and he will understand the order of life,。
you know, spiritual lesson, so-called.。
Let me show you.。
Proverbs 26, 14.。
As the door swing back and forth on his hinges,。
so the lazy guy turns over in the bed, right?。
That's what he's getting at, right?。
From observation to truth, remember?。
From observation to insight.。
From observation of how the world works.。
And then he gets some spiritual lesson。
that is applicable to all of us.。
You gotta work hard, otherwise you will be like a hinge,。
moving left and right, and you are not moving anywhere.。
And your life will not be。
contributing to the community.。
That's what the wise is getting at, right?。
So from observation to truth, okay?。
You get what it means, right?。
You get what I mean.。
So I give you a second picture,。
and then you tell me what kind of insights。
or spiritual lessons you can get, okay?。
Now this second picture I took two weeks ago,。
and I was in Israel, and as you know,。
I was leading about 27 people for two weeks in Israel.。
So we were in Bethlehem, and as you know,。
we tour around the country,。
and sometimes we need to do shopping, okay?。
We need to do shopping.。
So we were in a shop,。
and it was owned by a Palestinian Christian family,。
and we spent a little bit of time in there,。
and they got some souvenirs, some olive wood,。
craft, all sorts of things.。
And don't ask me, I didn't buy anything for you.。
But they all bought something, right?。
So by the time I told the group,。
okay, we gotta go, right, we gotta go.。
The time's getting late.。
You know, we need to move on to the next stop, right?。
So everyone is exiting the shop。
and ready to get onto the bus, right?。
And then right at that moment,。
a street merchant ambush us。
and came with some sort of, you know,。
souvenir items and trying to sell those。
to some of the people who got extra money.。
So that delayed us from getting onto the bus.。
So right there, I was trying to tell them,。
you know, we gotta go, we gotta go, you know?。
You know, we're running out of time.。
And then I took this picture.。
(audience laughing)。
So they were on the ground,。
they were on the ground with all this scarf。
and, you know, textile products,。
and then bookmarks, you know, fairly cheap.。
And I think the merchant, you know,。
got some of our weaknesses.。
You know, he's like, oh, I'm gonna sell you,。
like, you know, it was originally $10 for five,。
and then now it's $5 for five, okay?。
And then all this, you know, team members,。
as you know, they got delayed, you know?。
We actually, we are frozen in time.。
And then they are trying to get all of these things.。
It's actually very nice, it's very nice.。
It's just not, this is not me.。
So, this is the picture I took, okay?。
So, from observation to truth,。
what kind of insight did you get?。
Immediately, I thought of one verse in the Bible。
that talks about this picture, exactly, right?。
It's this one.。
2014 Proverbs.。
The buyer heckles over the price,。
saying it's worthless, it's worthless.。
Then, brag about getting a bargain.。
(audience laughs)。
So, the wise teacher is making some observations。
about human nature.。
He's trying to describe human nature, right?。
What is the human nature that he describes?。
He observes humanity.。
We are all beings of contradiction, right?。
When they were looking for the different colors。
of textile products, this is not good,。
this is not good, this is not good, this is not good.。
And, by the way, it's not just ladies, men too.。
Yeah, this is not good, this is not good,。
this is not worthless.。
They try to heckle the price, right?。
And after they got it, they got onto the bus,。
they say, "Oh, this is so good.。
"This is so nice."。
Now, what the Book of Proverbs is trying to get at。
is that we tend to be prival.。
We tend to be proud.。
That's our natural tendency.。
Our natural tendency has always not been humility.。
You don't have to work on yourself,。
you don't have to work hard in order to be a prideful person.。
You are a prideful person, right?。
And that's why our inner self is often contradicting。
ourselves.。
So that is what the wise teacher is trying to do.。
From observation on earth, and then he gets。
some spiritual lesson to understand who we are。
and understand the way of wisdom.。
So there are two big points I wanna show you.。
First is biblical wisdom is understanding。
the order of creation.。
There is a certain order, spiritual order,。
moral order in this universe.。
And the wise teacher, the wisdom literature,。
is trying to get at, is to observe carefully。
and then get some spiritual lessons out of it.。
And the second point, which is important,。
is that wisdom begins with obeying the voice of God.。
So let me show you the first point.。
Understanding the creational order of God.。
I'll show you this picture.。
What do you see here?。
Stone fallen, right?。
Stone fallen wall.。
It's very simple, right?。
And what do you get?。
Again, observation to insight, right?。
2430.。
Here the teacher says, "I walked by the field。
"of a lazy person, the vineyard of one with no common sense.。
"I saw that it was overgrown with all sorts of nasty weeds。
"and the walls were broken down.。
"And then I look and then I reflect upon it。
"and I learn this spiritual lesson.。
"A little extra sleep, a little more slumber,。
"a little more folding of hands to rest,。
"then poverty will come.。
"It will pound on you like a bandit.。
"It will come to you and attack you like an armed robber."。
So that's what he's trying to get at.。
If you slumber a little bit more,。
if you're lazy a little bit more,。
you should know that life always works this way.。
That is the principle of life.。
He passes by a lazy person's vineyard.。
You know how many years do you need。
to grow a mature vineyard?。
How many years of hard work?。
What, six years?。
(audience laughing)。
20 years would be very mature, very mature, very valuable.。
You know, you go to a wine store, you get some good wine.。
Those are from a very, very old,。
a very, very mature-grown vineyard.。
But what I'm telling you is at least six years,。
24/7, 365 days a year.。
You have to work on the soil, you have to work on the wall,。
and you have to retain the soil, the good soil,。
and then you have to fertilize it, you have to water it,。
take care of it, prune it, and grow it.。
For six years of sweat and labor.。
And then you get a vineyard.。
But if the vineyard is in the lazy person's hand,。
the vineyard will be ruined.。
You'll find weeds.。
You'll find your vineyard being destroyed.。
Just naturally being destroyed.。
Doesn't mean there's enemies trying to attack it,。
trying to break down the walls.。
It's just naturally.。
Stone will always fall down.。
Stone from the stone wall will always fall down。
and the wall will be broken,。
and you lose all the soil and all your produce.。
So the wise teacher is a spiritual teacher.。
He's not a natural scientist.。
He observes how the world works and he learn a lesson.。
If you're a little bit lazy in your spiritual life,。
in your relationship with God,。
if you stop working, there's always forces of chaos。
that will destroy you.。
That is the natural order of things.。
And the order will naturally give way to chaos.。
The wise teacher is saying, in your life,。
the world has always been this way, order to chaos.。
Always order to chaos.。
Unless you work hard and you work against。
the forces of darkness, forces of chaos.。
You put the fallen stone back on the wall.。
You input, you work and you labor.。
You sweat, repair and maintain your life.。
Otherwise you will not enjoy the fruit of your labor.。
Spiritual life, or life in general, does not come easy.。
That's what wisdom is trying to say to you.。
There's always an insistence of emphasis of diligence.。
You know, wisdom does not come easily.。
It can only be earned.。
It can only be earned by your hard work.。
Spiritual maturity, character formation.。
You want to be like Christ.。
You want to be making advances in your spiritual journey.。
It doesn't come naturally.。
What comes naturally is ruin, chaos.。
If you fold your hands, fold your arms,。
naturally you will be destroyed.。
And the wise person is saying,。
you need to put sweats and tears into your spiritual life.。
Think about it.。
I've been a Christian for a long time.。
Whenever I got lazy, I don't do anything about it.。
I don't work against my own weaknesses, my own old self.。
All sorts of sinful nature will come out.。
You have to guard your heart.。
In fact, the Old Testament and New Testament,。
the entire Bible often advises and command us。
to guard our heart.。
And guarding is a military term.。
It's a military term.。
You stand on a tower to guard against the enemies.。
They will come any time to destroy you。
and your life will be ruined.。
And you have to guard your own life.。
And how do you do that?。
That is wisdom calling.。
Calling you to form your character,。
to mold yourself so that you are on the right track。
in your spiritual relationship with God.。
So wisdom is understanding the creational order。
and then you learn some spiritual insight out of it.。
For those of you who have the blessing。
to be born and to grow up in a Christian environment,。
I want to tell you, you cannot take it for granted。
because the forces of darkness will destroy you.。
It will ruin you unless you work really, really hard.。
That is Proverbs 24.。
So second point is, wisdom is listening and obeying God.。
Now don't get me wrong.。
Wisdom literature is not about self-help, self-improvement.。
It's about drawing us closer to God himself.。
So Proverbs 19.27.。
It says, "If you stop listening to discipline, my child,。
"you will stray from the words of wisdom,。
"words of knowledge."。
Words of discipline, think about it.。
The Hebrew word means,。
actually it can mean chains, you know, boundaries.。
Something you can think of,。
but it's not some comforting words.。
Words of discipline.。
It's gonna be tough to listen to,。
but you have to listen to it.。
You have to be obedient.。
You have to be open to discipline.。
Strayed, it means unable to walk in a straight line.。
Have you ever got drunk?。
Yeah, you did, right?。
You had before, right?。
You got drunk and you cannot walk in a straight line.。
You just wander, wander, you waste your time and energy,。
and then you probably will fall, right?。
Fall and stumble, right?。
Strayed is unable to walk straight.。
It's actually describing people who got drunk.。
But what it says is,。
if you stop listening to words of wisdom,。
even tough words, discipline,。
then your life will be in ruin.。
Now, we often misunderstand spiritual growth。
in some sort of rosy picture.。
We always think, okay,。
how do you grow your relationship with God?。
Okay, how do you grow?。
Well, we're talking about going to a retreat, right?。
To St. Louis, going to a retreat,。
you know, going somewhere else.。
And probably there will be times。
we will do some, you know, devotion, right?。
Quiet times.。
When you think of quiet times, spiritual reflection,。
what kind of picture you have in mind?。
You probably have this kind of picture in mind, right?。
Ah, so nice, you know, go to a lakeside。
and you just sit there and open up your Bible。
and, you know, you turn to some of the passages。
that may be your favorite passages, right?。
You don't want to turn to any passages。
that will yell at you, right?。
That will discipline you.。
You don't turn to that, right?。
Because, you know, we're in the retreat, right?。
We want to feel nice.。
So, oftentimes we think of spiritual growth。
or spiritual relationship with God in this sort of picture.。
I want to tell you today, this is a wrong picture.。
You raise it.。
It doesn't happen that way.。
Spiritual growth, your spiritual life, your character,。
it doesn't grow this way.。
This is a lie.。
It doesn't work that way.。
Now, think of spiritual growth not in this sort of picture.。
Think of spiritual growth in this picture.。
This is spiritual growth.。
This is character formation.。
This is spiritual formation.。
I remember years ago, I was in a region college in Vancouver。
and I was taking MDiv, right?。
I was preparing myself for ministry.。
And I have so many classmates, other seminarians,。
they were taking the program of a spiritual theology, yeah.。
Spiritual theology or spiritual formation.。
I never heard of any one of those。
would talk about spiritual growth this way.。
I never.。
To sweat?。
I mean, to labor?。
I mean, to work hard, right?。
Difficult?。
Being tough?。
I never heard of that.。
You know, I came out and I really have a big question.。
You know, how do you grow yourself?。
How do you grow in your character, in your spiritual life?。
They always think this way.。
Oh my God.。
Oh my God, I need to grow.。
Okay, I need to go away and to reflect, right?。
On the calm, you know, weather.。
It doesn't work that way, guys.。
I'm not saying there's no room for your spiritual growth。
to have some quiet times and spiritual reflection.。
We all do, right?。
Put out 15 minutes a day, 10 minutes a day.。
It's necessary.。
But most of the time, it's like this.。
The Bible is very clear to all of us, you know?。
And the spiritual teacher is showing us。
that character growth, spiritual formation,。
requires hard work.。
There's no shortcut.。
If you forget about it, if you fold your arms,。
your life will be in ruin.。
And your relationship with God will go down the pit.。
Spiritual growth requires sweat and tears。
by a hardworking farmer.。
Proverbs 1:7, it says, "Fear of the Lord。
"is the foundation of true wisdom,。
"but fools despise knowledge and discipline."。
My child, my child, listen.。
When your father corrects you,。
what you learn from them, from wisdom,。
will crown you with grace, and you will have honor.。
Now, how do you earn a life of wisdom and life of honor?。
You've got to listen.。
And listening is hard work.。
You've got to work against your own natural tendency, right?。
When someone says some words of discipline,。
correction to me, you know, I don't have to work on it.。
I will naturally resist, right?。
I will naturally resist.。
But you've got to work against that tendency,。
that sinful tendency, in order to get that honor,。
to grow your life and grow closer to God.。
So to all the fathers today, or soon to be father,。
I want to challenge you and want to remind you。
to grow in the way of wisdom.。
And that's going to be hard work.。
There's so much work in there, right?。
And work hard to build a godly character.。
Because as father, I think fatherhood。
is the embodiment of spiritual wisdom.。
And there's no excuse.。
There's no excuse for us to say,。
oh, no, I'm not a good Christian, that's okay.。
You know, that sort of excuse will only lead to。
ruin and chaos and disorder.。
Do your best and run in the way of wisdom.。
Even though it will require you to work hard.。
And to all of you, to each and every one of you,。
I want to remind and challenge you to grow spiritually.。
And what I meant is not that rosy picture.。
No, no, no, no, no, no, erase that.。
This one, I want to remind you,。
we need to work hard to build godly character.。
To build a community of God, to build a church.。
This is the picture.。
And that is the picture of honor.。
And that is the future of honor.。
So let's work on it and walk in the way of wisdom.。
Let's pray and recommit ourselves。
before the God of wisdom.。
It is his pleasing will, his pleasing desire。
for you and for me to grow in wisdom.。
Let's all pray.。
And I'll ask the team to come back up.。
Father, we come before you and humble ourselves.。
And may your spirit humble our hearts,。
knowing that we are sinful。
and we resist the word of wisdom.。
And I pray and I beg for your grace.。
I pray that you will change us and mold us。
so that we'll be teachable.。
Our spirit will be obeying to the voice of you.。
Speak the word of wisdom in our lives。
and grow us and mold us in the way of wisdom。
so that we can grow closer and closer to you.。
Perhaps we need to get back to reading your word。
and just work hard on understanding your word.。
Help us, Father.。
Perhaps we need to get on our knees to pray,。
to pray that we will grow in holiness,。
grow in godliness, and to humble ourselves before you。
and acknowledge that you are our God.。
(soft piano music)。
So I pray that you will continue to help us to grow,。
even though it will take hard work.。
We will not be lazy.。
We will cling to your mercy。
and to grow spiritually and wisely。
so that your name will be honored in our lives.。
In Christ, we pray.。
