- So we have our pastor, Pastor Mark,。
who's gonna give our sermon today.。
- Thanks, Annie, thank you.。
Well, we continue to ponder on this important question,。
how to build, how to grow a healthy church.。
Again, we were at studying the book of 1 Corinthians.。
We were at chapter 12,。
and last week we studied the love poem of chapter 13.。
So today, let us turn to 1 Corinthians 14, all right?。
So these three chapters are the Trinity chapters.。
Three chapters together, 12, 13, and 14,。
addressing the use of spiritual gifts.。
And actually, there was a bigger picture in mind.。
Paul is talking about church as a human body,。
as an analogy, that we are all different parts。
of this whole body, building up the body of Christ.。
And then 13, as you remember, the famous love poem,。
love is patient, love is kind,。
to help us to get a right orientation。
of how to use our talents and our gifts。
to build up the church.。
And now we are at chapter 14.。
And let me begin by reading the passage.。
And there are two points in this chapter, chapter 14.。
First is the importance of sound biblical teaching。
for growing a healthy church.。
That's the first point.。
The second point is the value,。
the value of sound biblical teaching.。
As I have reminded you, what a church should look like。
and what a church should be,。
is not our preferences or our opinions.。
It is not our suggestions that matter.。
The end of the day is the word of God,。
the final authority of God's revelation, the Bible.。
We come back to the Bible, we turn to the scripture。
and see what God has to say about our church,。
about church in general.。
So 14, verse one,。
Paul is dealing with the use of spiritual gifts,。
especially the gift of speaking in tongues,。
speaking in unknown language.。
14, one, pay attention.。
Paul says, "Let love be your highest goal,。
"but you should also desire the special abilities。
"or spiritual gifts the Spirit,。
"the Holy Spirit gives to all of us,。
"especially the ability to prophesy.。
"For if you have the ability to speak in tongues,。
"you will be talking only to God,。
"since people won't be able to understand you.。
"You will be speaking by the power of the Spirit,。
"but it will all be mysterious.。
"But one who prophesies,。
"who has the spiritual gifts of prophesying,。
"strengthens others, encourages others,。
"and comforts others."。
So Paul is making a contrast。
between the gift of speaking,。
well, how does the NLT translate it?。
Speaking in tongues, right?。
Or speaking in unknown language.。
He's contrasting one set of spiritual gifts,。
speaking in tongues or in unknown language.。
And then the other one is prophesying,。
speaking prophecy, you know, prophesying.。
So from this passage,。
we understand not all spiritual gifts are equal.。
Yes, the Holy Spirit will grant us different abilities。
or talents in the church,。
different members or different brother and sister,。
they have this set of gifts,。
or he has this set of abilities or talents,。
but not all spiritual gifts are of same importance.。
Why?。
Now, some of the spiritual gifts are obviously stronger,。
according to Paul.。
Why does Paul say that?。
Because the Corinthian Christians,。
they were desiring, they want,。
or they're yearning for some sort of spectacular gifts.。
You know, speaking in tongues,。
or speaking in unknown language, right,。
mysterious language, seems to them,。
the Corinthian Christians,。
would be something they wanna strive for,。
they wanna pray for, and they want that kind of gifts.。
And that sort of gifts probably look more spiritual to them,。
or look more supernatural to them,。
more spectacular to them.。
But, you know, as Paul has emphasized。
throughout these chapters,。
the Word of God is the standard.。
When we return to the scripture。
and see what the Bible has to say about spiritual gifts,。
even though we are not part of that charismatic tradition.。
So what is Paul saying?。
Paul is saying, he has nothing against speaking in tongue.。
He has nothing against that sort of spiritual gifts.。
Some people will speak in tongue。
because the sovereignty of the Holy Spirit,。
God has granted them this sort of abilities.。
But Paul seems to be doing something here.。
He deprioritize, you know,。
try to put some of the gifts,。
especially speaking in tongue, to a lower priority.。
He elevate some of the gifts。
the Christians in Corinth were not seeking,。
the gift of prophecy.。
Now, what does it mean?。
Okay, let's continue.。
Verse five, he says,。
"I wish you could all speak in tongues,。
"but even more, I wish you could all prophesy,。
"for prophecy is greater than speaking in tongues.。
"Unless someone is here in the public service,。
"when someone is speaking in tongues,。
"someone interprets what you're saying,。
"so that the whole church will be strengthened."。
Now, as you can tell,。
he is definitely not against speaking in tongue in general.。
But he said there was a greater gift,。
greater spiritual talent that has to be used。
when the church gathers, and that is the gift of prophecy.。
Now, what is prophecy?。
If you remember, I told you before,。
prophecy is not weather forecast, right?。
It was snowing outside, right?。
Right, it was snowing outside.。
Prophecy, in general, in the Bible,。
has nothing to do with weather forecast,。
whether it was snow at 3 p.m. today, 3.30 p.m. today,。
whether the forecast is correct or not.。
It has nothing to do with it.。
Prophecy, in the Bible, is not so much prediction.。
It's about preaching.。
It's about speaking the word of God。
according to the final standard of Scripture.。
Authoritative preaching, you can translate that.。
Prophecy is stronger according to Paul,。
because it trains your mind.。
You know, when the questions in Corinth,。
when they gather, you can imagine,。
like, say, we are the church in Corinth.。
Most of the people, they were looking forward。
to speak in tongue.。
Somehow, this Holy Spirit touches them。
and give them the spiritual ability。
to speak in mysterious language。
so that they can draw closer to God.。
But Paul is saying, by exercising those gifts,。
speaking in tongue, you are drawing closer to God。
only by yourself.。
And that's why that sort of gift, speaking in tongue,。
is lower in priority.。
What is higher in priority is that when the church gathers,。
preaching, biblical teaching, has the higher priority.。
When you come to church,。
when you come to a worship gathering,。
Paul says you need to seek for the gift。
of biblical teaching,。
the gift of sound doctrine,。
the gift of training our mind.。
Because some of the people, when they are preaching,。
when they're explaining the word of God,。
they're expounding on the word of God,。
everyone else would understand, right?。
See, for example here, I'm using a language。
that everybody can understand, right?。
Otherwise, your mind will not be trained,。
and you will not be able to understand it.。
I am speaking a common language everyone can understand.。
If you cannot understand, there is a radio to translate.。
That's why we take this so seriously.。
We prepare the script, we prepare the sermon,。
and we prepare some teaching,。
drawn from the Holy Scripture.。
Because when the church gather together,。
Paul is saying we need to know。
and understand the will of God.。
It trains your mind, doesn't it?。
Now, a question for you.。
Do you think your mind, your thinking,。
matters to God?。
You think having an intellectual mind,。
a sound, rational mind, right thinking,。
about the teaching of God, about the world,。
about the Bible, about our lives,。
you think those things matter to God?。
They matter to God, right?。
They matter to God.。
The ability to discern, the ability to think critically,。
the ability to examine things rationally,。
these things matter to God.。
They matter to God.。
So much that Paul is saying there's importance,。
utmost importance.。
When the church gathers together,。
we need to understand the teaching of the Bible.。
That's why he elevate one set of gifts over the other.。
Speaking of tongues, that's nice, Paul says.。
But this is for your own private fellowship with God.。
Because nobody understand what you're saying.。
When the church gathers, everyone has to understand。
what we are talking about, what we are thinking about.。
So the ability to discern and ability to use our mind。
correctly, to think about things critically,。
these things matter to God.。
These are not the monopoly of some of the scholars,。
some of the intellectualists among us, right?。
There are some PhD students here.。
What they're talking about, we don't understand, right?。
(audience laughing)。
What they're doing, no clue, right?。
But let me say this, right thinking,。
right thinking, in order to think critically。
and to discern things, truth and error,。
these are important things to God.。
These are very important.。
So not only biblical teaching,。
some biblical teaching is important.。
Secondly, my point is, it is of value, all right?。
Everyone should watch this documentary on Netflix.。
It's a horrible, horrible thing to watch.。
I haven't watched it yet, all right?。
It's called "In the Name of God, Holy Betrayal."。
Now it's a very, it's a big hit these days。
because it was released March 3rd, only a few days ago.。
It was released on Netflix.。
It's a documentary series exposing the biggest cult。
in Korea, the Big Four.。
Now, as I said, I don't have time to watch it yet,。
but I will watch it.。
Have you ever watched it?。
Anyone?。
No?。
You're scared to watch it。
or you just don't have time to watch it?。
You should watch it, you should watch it.。
Because this documentary series has many episodes.。
It exposed the cult leaders in Korea.。
It's very interesting, it's very intriguing。
that all these cult leaders,。
they were able to attract thousands。
and thousands of followers.。
And according to this documentary series,。
this cult leaders in Korea, or even all over the world,。
because they plant churches, different groups,。
all over the world,。
they attract thousands and thousands of college students.。
Can you believe that?。
I mean, listen, let me tell you one of the quote。
from this series.。
One of the cult leaders used to say to his followers,。
and I quote, "Do you know who I am?。
"I bet you don't.。
"Well, I am the Messiah.。
"You don't need to search for God.。
"If you can't see God, look at me."。
These are some of the things that the cult leaders。
used to say to his followers.。
Thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of followers.。
"Look at me, I am God."。
It's very interesting to me because。
I just cannot understand why this sort of teaching。
would attract such a following,。
even among college students.。
Now, college students are supposed to be not so dumb,。
'cause they got into colleges.。
They must have some intellectual ability to discern。
in order to get themselves into campuses.。
It's just very intriguing to me.。
Many, many of the followers of this cult。
in Korea and around the world,。
they would follow wrong teachings,。
obviously false teachings.。
And I encourage you to watch this documentary。
to think with me, to ponder with me.。
What is going on?。
What is going on?。
Remember what Jesus said.。
He said, "Love the Lord with all your heart。
"and all your mind."。
You got to use your mind when you follow Christ.。
God expects us to use our mind.。
And our mind with the right thinking,。
to think critically, to discern,。
is pleasing to Him.。
It's pleasing to God.。
To discern and to understand what is going on,。
what is true and what is not.。
Christians, with all your mind,。
should be able to grow in this sense,。
to think logically, to think rationally,。
should make decisions wisely and critically.。
This is all expected in our Christian discipleship.。
Because our faith is not blind faith.。
Our faith is reasonable faith.。
It can be justified.。
It's the right thinking that matters to God.。
Now, as I read some of the basic information。
before I watched the documentary series,。
I quote some of the obviously wrong false teachings。
from all these cult leaders.。
As I said, I find it very, very troubling.。
Students, you know, college students。
would fall into those traps, right?。
Because if you think about it,。
if you have the mind to really study。
and to discern, to think critically,。
you quickly will come to some of the scriptures。
obviously stated in the Bible。
that you can quickly tell。
these leaders are not teaching sound doctrine.。
For example, Matthew 24,。
when Jesus was talking about the last days,。
he told his disciples, "In the last days,。
"don't let anyone mislead you,。
"for many will come in my name,。
"claiming I am the Messiah,。
"and they will deceive many."。
See, if you use your mind and use your brain。
to just flip some of the pages in the Bible,。
you quickly can tell who is telling the truth。
and who is not.。
How could this educate people。
by this kind of lies, right?。
I just cannot understand.。
I mean, do you have an answer?。
I don't have an answer yet.。
Now, for many people who observe。
this terrible things and horrible things happening。
in people who use the name of God to deceive people,。
some of the people who are observers,。
kind of outsiders,。
they probably will conclude that,。
okay, all right, they will just abandon faith altogether.。
They will just abandon the Bible altogether。
or religion altogether in general.。
Because, see, some of the cult leaders。
using the name of God, the name of religion,。
to deceive many people and do horrible things, right?。
They will conclude that this is no use.。
I will just abandon God.。
I will just abandon the Bible altogether.。
But again, if you think about it,。
such conclusion is actually irrational, right?。
Because somebody misused the name of God。
doesn't mean God is useless, right?。
If you think clearly, I think the best way。
in observation of all these terrible things happening,。
the best way is not abandonment, but discernment.。
It's not abandonment, it is discernment.。
God is reminding you and challenging you to discern,。
to grow in your ability to think critically.。
Now, returning to chapter 14 of 1 Corinthians,。
you notice there is a key term being mentioned,。
being repeated over and over and over again。
in the entire chapter of 14.。
Let me give you an example, 14.12.。
Paul is speaking about the gift of preaching,。
sound doctrine, and the gift of speaking in tongue, right?。
He elevated one over the other and put speaking in tongue。
to the least of the list of gifts.。
The gift of preaching is much better.。
Verse 12, he said, "The same is true for you guys.。
"Since you are so eager to have the special abilities,。
"the spirit gifts, seek those that will strengthen。
"the whole church."。
He's talking about some of the talents,。
some of the gifts that has to be elevated。
because those gifts will strengthen the whole church.。
The word strengthen or the verb strengthen。
repeats again and again, over and over again。
in the entire chapter, because Paul understands。
when we get together, we need to strengthen。
and build up the church.。
Now, strengthening the word, many times in this chapter,。
literally, it can mean building up,。
building things together.。
It's used all over the Bible, especially in New Testament,。
about the temple, the temple in Jerusalem.。
Brick and mortar, people put things together.。
Building up, strengthening.。
Talking about palace, the royal palace,。
palaces of the king, houses that people live in,。
physical buildings.。
He's using this word to describe when we get together,。
we need to use our presence and our talents。
and our resources to build up the church,。
to build like the temple, put bricks together.。
When we come together to have fellowship,。
when we come together to worship together,。
to serve together, we are putting bricks on one another。
and build up the temple so that God can be。
in presence with us.。
That is our goal.。
And that's why there's value in understanding。
the better gifts.。
The better gifts are those that will build up。
and strengthen the church.。
You probably know what contractors do, contractors.。
Have you ever done any renovation in your house?。
Repair jobs, right?。
Those are really, really tough jobs, right?。
I, in the past few years, because I got some major。
renovation in my house, I have to hire somebody。
to do the hot job, right?。
So I really respect those guys.。
You know, they got their hands dirty。
and they got the blueprint and they build things for me.。
Now, as you understand, as contractors,。
the building process is not an end in itself,。
but they always have the end goal in mind.。
What contractors do is to build things。
so that when the final project is done,。
the people who live in that space,。
who use that space, will be benefited, right?。
They got the blueprint, they got the process,。
they got all the tools, and they know what the end goal is.。
The end goal is to build a beautiful building。
and finish the whole project so that whoever use it,。
the users, the people who live in it, they will enjoy it.。
That is the whole point of building the church.。
So Paul is encouraging us to use your gifts。
to build the church.。
Now, to summarize what the gifts are,。
I have a quick way to summarize it.。
It's three Ts.。
Your time, and your treasure, and your talents.。
Remember these three words, all right?。
The first one is time.。
What does it mean?。
When we gather, it takes time, right?。
There's no gathering of Christians,。
there's no worship gathering that would not take time.。
You set aside a time, you allot this time slot,。
I'm gonna worship God with the people of God, right?。
I'm gonna show up and be present, bodily present, right?。
Time, your treasure, right?。
Giving generously to the ministry of God, right?。
To train up the people。
so that his people will follow his way.。
Your talents, right?。
Now, I don't have to repeat all those stuff, right?。
Because we already talk about,。
we are gifted in different ways, right?。
Some of those are musically gifted,。
some of those who are gifted in some other ways.。
We are all using the gifts, right?。
Time, treasure, and talents to build up the church, right?。
Urban voice, our church.。
Let's build it so that God will get the glory.。
God will get the glory.。
I have some confidential pictures I wanna show you.。
As I prepared a sermon, I found some of the old pictures.。
As you know, Urban Voice UV,。
we launched our church as a church plan。
with just maybe eight or nine families together.。
It was back in 2016.。
So we were officially launched on the Easter Sunday, 2016.。
So as I prepared a sermon,。
I found some of the old pictures, all right?。
So the old pictures were all taken。
when we first move in to this place.。
When we first move in here, it had nothing.。
It's just an empty box.。
Who built it?。
People who have talents,。
people who are committed to build the church together.。
And I wanna show you this picture, it's about six or seven.。
And I want you to, well, who were with us。
in the very first Sunday, 2016 Easter Sunday?。
Who were here?。
Yeah, there are only a few, right?。
So praise God, these people,。
they were not here in the very first day,。
but they gradually, and God sent them here,。
and what a blessing to have all of you.。
But some of these pictures, as I show you,。
you have been coming to this church。
to attend the worship service,。
to participate in our ministries.。
Thank God for that.。
You should know our environment a little bit,。
right, our facility.。
So as I show you these old pictures,。
you tell me, where was this picture taken?。
Where, okay, exactly where this picture was taken?。
You ready?。
Where was this picture taken?。
Where?。
Where was the camera?。
Where was the camera?。
Right, it was around here, right?。
So we took a picture all the way there.。
Now it's changed a lot because we at this room,。
you know, this studio room, before COVID,。
before the pandemic, the room was not there,。
part of the building process, right?。
Next one.。
Where was this taken?。
That's right, right here, right here.。
Taken this direction, right?。
It's amazing to see how the builders, you know,。
build the church together, or build all this stuff, right?。
This thing is hollow.。
There were holes in it, right?。
They built a frame, you know,。
I was there almost every single day,。
and I took some pictures, you know,。
just to document what God has been doing in our midst.。
So this is the stage.。
How about this one?。
Where was this taken?。
Yeah, it's the cafe area, right?。
Back then we had only this crappy, you know, cabinet, right?。
And this worker was doing the drywall,。
and before we put the wood panels on.。
God built this church.。
How about this one?。
Where was this taken?。
Any guess?。
It's outside, it's actually the same angle,。
the cafe before the wall, before the drywall was put up.。
Right, so this wall right there.。
It's outside, the picture was taken outside, right?。
It's amazing, it's amazing.。
Every day I come here, you know,。
there's a process, more has been done, right?。
How about this one?。
Any guess?。
Where was this taken?。
Where was this picture taken?。
To what direction?。
Ah, that's tough, right?。
That's actually in the cafe area.。
If you stand outside the nursery door,。
you take a picture this way,。
not all the way to the end of the cafe,。
there's a dining table there, right?。
There's a bookcase there, right?。
Remember?。
Do you remember?。
Okay, all you pay attention to is the food, right?。
The food and the drinks.。
Seriously, this is taken from the end to the other end。
in the cafe area.。
How about this one?。
This is tough.。
It took me a long time to figure out where was this taken.。
I didn't even remember.。
It was actually taken from where James is.。
Yeah, it's right there, it's this corner.。
Can you tell?。
It's this corner, that's the back door.。
I want to show you this picture because,。
just like what Paul says,。
the church needs to be built up, you know, brick by brick,。
dry wall by dry wall.。
But Paul is not simply talking about hardware.。
He's talking about the people, the group, the church,。
the community getting together.。
All these pictures, I add this verse in there, 1412.。
In the same way, it is true for you guys.。
Since you are so eager to have your special abilities,。
the spirit gifts, seek those that will strengthen,。
will build up the whole church.。
A stronger church is the foundation,。
and the foundation is our mind.。
Our mind is oriented to the Word of God,。
a better understanding of faith.。
Disciples should be thinkers.。
You should be able to discern, to think,。
to debate, to question.。
A good worship service is not one。
that would make you tear up.。
All right?。
Although I was worshiping and James was leading,。
it was such a great time we can praise our God, right?。
Offer our worship to Him.。
But a good service, a good worship, a good church。
is not one that makes you tear up,。
but one that challenges you to think deeply,。
to think more critically, to think better.。
Think in terms of God's Word.。
Think along the line。
with the biblical teaching of the Bible.。
Let's all pray together,。
and let's continue to live in the truth of God,。
and the truth is we live in His love.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, we give you thanks because you are the one。
who built this church.。
And thank you for the fact that the Holy Spirit。
is the builder.。
The Holy Spirit gives us in many different ways.。
So as we come before you, as we conclude our service,。
we ask that you would bring us into your presence again,。
and know that we are being saved by your grace,。
by your love, and your love would transform us。
to change our perspective, change our orientation,。
so that our lives, our gifts, our time, our treasure,。
and our talents will bring honor to you,。
to build up the church, to build up this community,。
so that your name will be lifted high.。
Thank you, and we praise you.。
Christ, we pray.。
(upbeat music)。
