(音樂)。
Happy Easter。
各位 福祉快樂。
我們可否給桌上的人。
給他們一個High Five。
Happy Easter。
(音樂)。
如果你們記得在星期五。
星期五。
OK。
兩三天前。
耶穌死亡的最可怕的死亡。
是基督的死亡。
祂被懲罰。
被判刑。
祂的身體被困在黑暗的寶寶墓。
所有的希望都失去了。
而是 邪惡的 死亡 都獲得了勝利。
在今天第三天。
早上非常早。
女性 女性的徒弟們。
他們去到耶穌的寶寶墓。
他們想參觀祂的身體。
他們來到寶寶墓。
他們發現寶寶墓已經打開。
寶寶墓已經空了。
耶穌已經不在了。
別害怕 聖經說。
祂不在了。
祂已經從死亡中出生了。
在這時。
女性們記得。
耶穌已經告訴她們。
很久以前 重複地說。
祂會被祭祀。
祂會從死亡中出生。
在第三天。
記得這一點。
女性徒弟們去告訴。
在藏身的徒弟們。
他們告訴他們好消息。
耶穌出現了。
祂的徒弟們 祂的家人。
並且顯示了 祂已經從死亡中出生了。
耶穌呼喚了祂的徒弟們。
以及所有的世代的教會。
來祈求生命的希望。
耶穌已經擊敗了死亡。
耶穌已經擊敗了邪惡。
耶穌已經擊敗了一切。
祂就是勝利。
這就是所有的世代的信息。
他們都在祈求。
在聖誕節我們也在慶祝這個事實。
我們也在活著這個呼喚。
我們被神呼喚。
去到外面 去告訴一個完全不同的故事。
去看到一件完全不同的事。
去看到一件完全不同的事。
去看到現實 去看到我們的生活。
上週 巴黎發生了大火。
納德達教堂也被火燒了。
這令人心痛。
整個世界都在悲傷。
這令人特別痛苦。
因為上週 本來是聖誕節。
聖誕節是在聖誕節中。
聖誕節是在聖誕節中 讓整個基督教世界都記得受苦。
和耶穌的痛苦。
看到大火燒掉了教堂。
我們都感到憂慮。
失去了文明。
失去了所有的文明和建築。
失去了歷史。
我們都看到大火和毀滅。
我們都感到不朽。
我們都看到大火 和毀滅了教堂。
我們都感到不朽。
我們都看到大火 和毀滅了教堂。
我們都感到不朽。
我們都看到大火 和毀滅了教堂。
我們都感到不朽。
我們都看到大火 和毀滅了教堂。
我們都感到不朽。
我們都看到大火 和毀滅了教堂。
我們都感到不朽。
我們都感到不朽。
Everything is gone and destructed. All you see is smoke and ash of destruction. But behind this is a golden cross.。
This is how a good photographer can tell a totally different story, a totally different perspective to see reality.。
High above the order, high above the ash of destruction is a powerful reminder of Christian hope.。
This is the hope that we have with the empty tomb of Christ.。
And this is the hope we can see and experience in the midst of destruction, in the midst of ash of fire.。
Our hope is on the empty cross. Christ is not there. He died on Friday. He was buried. He was in the tomb. And His tomb is empty.。
Our hope is on the empty cross to raise in Christ. And please don't forward this picture and say this is a miracle.。
So gold has a much higher melting point than wood. This is not a miracle.。
But however, this is a totally different way to see reality.。
Easter Sunday calls us to see reality with a different lens.。
Put on a different eye glasses. Put on a different lens, a spiritual lens to see life.。
If life is just here and now, death and destruction have triumphed.。
This is what you get. Ash of destruction, forces of evil, death and Satan.。
But it shows us a higher reality, a different way, a totally alternative way to see reality.。
And that is the eternal lens. With Jesus' resurrection, the forces of evil, evil authorities, death and Satan have been defeated.。
With Jesus' resurrection, new creation, the Bible says, is set in motion.。
All in Christ, all people who put their trust in Christ, will share the same victory of Jesus.。
1 Corinthians 15.20. It says, "But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead.。
He is the first of great harvest of those who have died in Christ.。
Christ's resurrection is the first fruits."。
That's an interesting term. It's a farming term.。
It means joy and hope with the first harvest.。
And Jesus' resurrection is the first harvest, filled with joy and gratefulness.。
You know, you look around our world, it's filled with sin and suffering and death.。
You probably caught the news story in Sri Lanka this morning.。
There was a series of bombing of Christian churches as they celebrated Easter Sunday.。
More than 100 people died. Hundreds of people are wounded.。
This is our world. As of destructions.。
But Easter Sunday marks a totally different way to see the world.。
It celebrates a new beginning.。
The first fruits of the harvest will guarantee the rest of the field.。
There will be harvest. There will be a new beginning.。
So you come to Christ today. You put your trust in Him.。
With the resurrection, you have new hope.。
And you are new. New beginning and new creation.。
Our church launched three years ago on Easter Sunday.。
With the same conviction, same hope that we have in the raising Christ.。
We launched this church and this new mission.。
Why we do that? Because we know the tomb of Jesus was empty.。
There is hope in resurrection. There is a totally different new way to see our lives.。
And because of the hope of resurrection, we have a new mission.。
We are new people.。
So I pray that may the resurrection of Jesus encourage us all to continue to build the church.。
To plant the church. To extend the mission of God. To continue in our faith.。
He said in the book of Acts 15, verse 20, "But Christ is already in death."。
And Christ's resurrection is the beginning of the people who have been sown.。
Who said the people who have been sown?。
It must be the church at that time. A new church.。
Some people are suffering. Some families have left this world.。
But they are the people in the tomb. They have left the world.。
What are they doing? They are in despair.。
Paul wrote this letter to teach them.。
We still have despair. Because we have a desire for resurrection in Christ.。
Paul said a lot of things about the fact of the resurrection of Christ.。
He came to this chapter and said, "The resurrection of Christ is like the fruit of the first ripening."。
It is a word of the agricultural field.。
You know, at this time, in spring, the weather in Barcelona,。
This is the time of the ripening of wheat.。
It is the first batch of ripening. The first batch of fruit will not be produced.。
As the first batch of ripening, the first ripe fruit,。
There must be a lot of joy and gratitude.。
Because after the rainy season, there are several months of very cold rainy season.。
At this time, it starts to be messy, just like Chicago.。
It was snowing last week.。
This is the time of the first batch of ripening.。
People will be full of hope and gratitude.。
And what does the first ripe fruit say?。
It is the reason for despair.。
Why can there be a reason for despair?。
Because without the first batch of ripening, the rest of your crops will be ripened.。
If there is no first batch of ripening, there is no guarantee that the rest of your crops will be ripened.。
Jesus Christ is the first real ripening.。
The first ripe fruit.。
Really resurrected from death and will not die again.。
He has completely won over death.。
Jesus's resurrection is also a guarantee that all of us who believe in Jesus and rely on Jesus to the end.。
We will have eternal hope in the future.。
The main purpose of the second batch of ripening is to ask us to look at the world with a completely different perspective.。
Look at our life.。
Because of the resurrection, God will show a more real existence.。
This is heaven.。
This is God's kingdom.。
The picture you just saw is the one from the St. Martin's Cathedral in Paris last week.。
People all over the world are very sad.。
Lost a lot of history and heritage.。
Of course, it doesn't matter to some people.。
The most important thing is that they are rich.。
They don't appreciate culture, art, or history.。
But there are many reasons for the destruction of heritage.。
What everyone sees is just ashes and fire.。
We think it's helpless.。
We think there's only some destruction.。
But a good photographer,。
When using a different lens to see the truth,。
There is a completely new concept.。
This picture is after the fire.。
A photographer went to the scene and took the first picture.。
A good photographer uses a different lens to see the truth.。
What he sees is not what ordinary people see.。
What ordinary people see is just ashes and fire.。
But he saw a cross behind.。
If you can understand English, I have already mentioned it.。
Please don't say this is a miracle.。
Or you will be laughed at.。
Because the melting temperature of gold is higher than that of wood.。
So it's not hard to burn the gold cross.。
It's very reasonable.。
But this picture shows that we can see our real life from a new perspective.。
What does the resurrection ceremony do?。
The empty tomb is actually to shake us.。
To re-examine how we see the world.。
Change a superhuman eye to a superhuman lens.。
Change another pair of lenses to let you see God and God.。
A spiritual lens.。
The 15th chapter of the Gospel of John。
Proposes a lot of evidence of resurrection.。
Paul said that if there is no resurrection of the dead,。
If there is no resurrection of Jesus Christ,。
Our life is just a closed system.。
There will be no external things.。
It's a dead end.。
It's a dead end.。
The last thing we will see is the end.。
Because the last thing we will see is the final enemy.。
That is death.。
He said we only have this life of hope.。
But we are so poor.。
This is the special thing about the Christian faith.。
If you pay attention to the Christian faith,。
The special thing is that it is built in a historical event.。
It's not a theory of abstract.。
It's not a very solid philosophical thought.。
The Bible never provides a very solid philosophical thought.。
But the Bible tells us that the Christian faith。
Is built in a historical event.。
The death of Jesus Christ on Friday.。
The resurrection of Jesus Christ today。
Is a historical event.。
This is the most unique thing.。
Because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ,。
We can see this world clearly.。
It's not just a closed system.。
The resurrection day forces us to realize that our life needs to be changed.。
There is a higher reality.。
God really exists.。
He created the world.。
And loves us.。
He entered our world and saved us.。
These sinners.。
Because the resurrection of Jesus Christ,。
Think about it.。
Life, human life, the last one who speaks in the final stage of salvation,。
Is no longer death.。
It's resurrection.。
It's despair.。
It's love.。
It's God.。
It's not an evil regime.。
It's eternal life.。
So the resurrection of Jesus Christ from death。
Brings a lot of changes to many people's lives.。
From the first generation of believers,。
Those followers were greedy and afraid of death.。
Then they were willing to dare to come out and spread the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
All of them believed to death.。
Another follower,。
Changed 180 degrees,。
Is Paul.。
He was originally a person who persecuted the church.。
Now he is willing to。
Because he saw the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
He understood this and he is no longer afraid of authority.。
Then he went to all over the world to build a church and spread the gospel.。
Today, in your life,。
You may encounter different difficulties.。
I want you to bring the desire of the resurrection of Jesus Christ。
Into your life.。
God can direct you to show his own work.。
You are the one who brings the resurrection of Jesus Christ into your life.。
You can tell people。
This world and life can be completely different.。
We will pray later.。
We will pray for the brothers and sisters who are in trouble.。
We will pray for our friends and brothers and sisters.。
We will pray for each of us.。
We have a mission.。
We have the desire to bring the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
We go back to our home.。
Go back to our life.。
Go back to the place where you work.。
You can see the place where you don't know Jesus Christ.。
You can tell people that Jesus Christ is really resurrected.。
How to be resurrected?。
Not only a historical fact, but also an experience in your life.。
Your attitude is completely different.。
This is your mission.。
We also pray for the church.。
Our church says that today is the third year of the baptism.。
We are still very young.。
We still have a lot of needs.。
We still have a lot of places to be filled.。
But the desire to be resurrected pushes us forward.。
Let us know that what we have done is of eternal value.。
We will not hate this.。
We are going to pray together.。
Pray for those who are weak.。
We know there are many friends around us.。
Brothers and sisters in Christ.。
They are facing some struggles.。
We are going to remember them.。
In our prayers.。
We also pray for the church.。
This church is found on the hope and faith of Jesus' resurrection.。
We want to pray for the church because we want the same hope to motivate us.。
So that we can go back to our home, our workplaces, our neighborhood.。
To witness and to testify the living hope of Jesus Christ.。
Let us all pray together.。
我們請司見上來帶領我們祈禱。。
