- Thank you.。
- Good morning and Merry Christmas to all,。
oh, I'm sorry.。
Yeah, and today is the Sunday before the Christmas Sunday,。
so we have to go into the Bible story on Christmas.。
When we think of the Christmas story,。
the Christmas story, you can see in the Christmas card。
or some of the scenes that you have often encounter,。
we often think that the Christmas story。
is a children's story, right?。
But if you read the Bible story on Christmas,。
you'll find that it's not a kid's story。
because the Christmas story recorded in the Bible。
talks about the political realities。
and the kings of the time.。
And today we turn to Matthew 2, chapter two,。
and we're gonna compare two sets of people,。
two sets of characters,。
and see their similarities and differences.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now the first comparison we can make。
is between the Magi and the scribes,。
and our passage is found in chapter two in Matthew.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now chapter two, verse one, let me read.。
After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea,。
during the time of King Herod,。
and this is the King Herod the Great,。
the first King Herod in the Bible,。
Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and asked,。
"Where is the one who has been born King of the Jews?"。
We saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now you focus on the term Magi, M-A-G-I,。
and who are these people?。
Sometimes we translate it Magi,。
sometimes we translate them as wise men,。
and if you look at the newer translation。
of the Chinese Bible,。
they translate it as astrologers,。
astrologers, which is more accurate, I think,。
and these people are those who study the stars.。
They interpret dreams and they see the omen。
and are trying to observe the natural differences。
in the sky, and they came from the east,。
and most probably they came from Babylon。
or Arabia or Persia.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now in the ancient Near East,。
these people, astrologers,。
they believed they could read the signs in the sky,。
the heavens, the heavenly bodies,。
and they tried to do that in order to predict。
the future of the world.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, in the ancient Near East,。
these people, astrologers,。
they believed they could read the signs in the sky,。
the heavens, the heavenly bodies,。
and they tried to do that in order to predict。
the future or control the future,。
and these are some of the ways the pagans used。
to control the gods and the future,。
and it's pretty similar to modern-day folk religion。
or superstitions, fortune-telling or astrology。
to control God, is try to control our future。
by looking at the natural phenomena,。
but if you are reading this story。
from a so-called Jewish biblical perspective,。
you'll find that God does not do that.。
God does not allow us to control him.。
God actually reveals himself personally,。
and he sends his prophets, his servants,。
and write down scripture to tell us his will,。
so as a Jew, if you read this story,。
you will look down on the pagans,。
the astrologers, the Gentiles,。
and even those who are trying to predict the future,。
and these very people actually, interestingly,。
they travel miles and miles。
in order to worship the newborn king, Jesus.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
See, this is the first group of people,。
the magi, the pagans, they know almost nothing.。
They only saw a star,。
and they came to worship Jesus, the newborn king.。
However, the second group is the scribes,。
and we can find their description in verses three and four.。
When King Herod heard this,。
about the magi seeing a star and came to worship Jesus,。
King Herod was disturbed,。
and all Jerusalem with him were disturbed.。
When he had called together。
all the people's chief priests and teachers of the law,。
and King Herod asked them where the Messiah was to be born.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, notice how King Herod respond to the star,。
or the magi coming to Jerusalem.。
King Herod was actually a Roman client king。
appointed by the Roman government。
to rule over the land of the Jews, Judea,。
and he was only half Jewish,。
and he was not fully Jewish,。
but when he heard about the newborn king of the Jews。
has been born, he became really, really troubled。
and anxious because he felt that his power。
as the king of the Jews was threatened.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So here the verses tells us the king。
gather all the experts in scripture,。
the chief priests and the scribes in Jerusalem,。
because they were experts and asked them,。
these scholars, and asked them the question,。
where the Messiah was to be born?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And if I asked you the same question,。
you probably don't know the answer, right?。
Where was the Messiah to be born?。
Where?。
And where do you find this scripture in Old Testament?。
Which part of Old Testament talks about it?。
You don't know, right?。
You don't know.。
So the verses tell us in verse five,。
they immediately reply,。
they meaning the scribes and the experts in scripture,。
they said in Bethlehem in Judea,。
for this is what the prophet has written,。
but you Bethlehem in the land of Judah。
are by no means least among the rulers of Judah,。
for out of you will come a ruler。
who will be the shepherd of my people Israel.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now the Jewish scribes knew scripture really well, right?。
They recall, okay, there's the Old Testament passage。
that talk about where the Messiah was to be born.。
So they knew scripture well。
and they answer confidently and immediately.。
And they quote from, actually from a book。
in the Old Testament called Micah chapter five.。
They quote from Micah chapter five and says,。
which in that passage talks about God promising。
a new beginning to his people, his kingdom.。
And the new king is not from Jerusalem, the capital,。
but from the hometown of David, Bethlehem.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the scribes, the Jewish scribes,。
they were the ones who knew scripture best.。
And they were even teachers of the Bible.。
They are the PhDs of the day, PhD in the Bible.。
And then geographically, they were closest to Bethlehem.。
It's only two to three hours walk。
from Jerusalem to Bethlehem.。
Yet, did they go see Jesus, the new born king?。
Did they go worship him?。
No, they didn't even move.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the closest ones did not worship Jesus,。
but the farthest one, the Magi came and worshiped Jesus.。
I think this is part of the human nature, right?。
Those who are closest to the church, they're often late.。
Right?。
Those who are farther, they're often,。
they're often late.。
And so, the closest ones,。
the Magi, they're often late.。
And so, the closest ones,。
those who are farther, they often show up earlier.。
So I think that's interesting, you know,。
because those who are closest arrive the latest,。
because sometimes we take things lightly。
and make the least preparation.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And verses seven to 11 talks about how the Magi。
follow the star and they rejoice greatly。
and enter the house and bow down.。
You see all the verbs, they bow down,。
they enter the house, they bow down,。
they worship the child, they present the gifts,。
go, frankincense and myrrh to the new born king.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So, the Magi, they're often late.。
And so, the closest ones,。
the Magi, they're often late.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then the scripture continues to describe this story.。
They went on their way,。
and the star they had seen in the east。
went ahead of them until it stopped。
over the place where the child was.。
When they saw the star,。
they were overjoyed on coming to the house,。
they saw the child with his mother Mary。
and they bowed down and worshiped。
and opened the treasures and present the new born king。
with gifts of gold, incense and myrrh.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
, so you see, astrologers, superstitious people,。
the Gentiles, the pagans, they know almost nothing,。
very little about God, and they only saw a star in the sky,。
yet they took action and traveled miles and miles。
and they became the ones who truly understood。
what worshiping God is.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And who, let me ask you,。
who has been a Christian for at least five years?。
Can you raise your hand?。
All right, we get so many of those, yeah.。
You know, I've been to church, you know,。
been there, done that, and you know,。
I really feel that sometimes new believers,。
not those who raised their hand,。
new believers always come to church with reverence。
and respect and sincerity.。
They come on time and they come prepared.。
And we should ask ourselves, is our heart toward worship。
more like the scribes of the Jews。
or like the simple and humble Magi?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And the gospel of Matthew present Jesus as the King。
of all nations.。
You know, at the end of the gospel,。
Jesus died and he rose again,。
and he is the one who is worthy of worship。
of all nations and all people.。
And he calls the disciples to make disciples。
of all nations and our worship should be。
worthy of worship of all nations.。
And he calls the disciples to make disciples。
of all nations and our worship should always consider。
whether Jesus is worthy of our service.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, so that's the first comparison。
in the story of Christmas.。
The second comparison is between two kings.。
One king is called Herod the Great, he's the earthly king.。
The other king is the newborn King Jesus.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And you know, King Herod or Herod the Great,。
he was known for many things.。
He was actually the greatest builder before modern times.。
And he built so many things in the land of Israel。
and Palestine and beyond.。
And during his reign, he carried out massive。
construction projects and he built more than 30 fortresses。
and cities throughout Palestine and beyond.。
And even today, you know, we go to Israel。
and travelers can visit those sites.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And Herod also fought his entire life。
to gain his kingship, to keep his throne.。
And because of this, he was extremely, extremely,。
this guy, King Herod, the one on the right,。
on the left, King Herod the Great,。
he was extremely jealous and suspicious。
of all the people around him.。
And because he considered every single one of them。
as a threat and he would illuminate them。
to take them out when King Herod heard,。
as you can understand, heard about the Magi。
coming to worship another king of the Jews,。
and he was deeply, deeply disturbed.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And especially in his later years, in his last years,。
King Herod was living in the constant fear。
of being overthrown and he killed almost。
every of his friends and relatives,。
his beloved wife, one of his beloved wives,。
and three of his own sons he killed.。
And he became really, really sick。
well, toward the end of his life.。
And he knew that no one would mourn for his death。
after he died, so he became more jealous and more cruel.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And there's a historian called, named Josephus,。
and he talks so much about what happened in those years。
before King Herod died.。
And he described the final years of King Herod like this,。
at this passage shown you on the screen.。
In the past, King Herod took pleasure。
out of excessive concern for his own life。
and he turned against his own relatives.。
But the command he now issued right before he died。
was utterly inhuman.。
And Josephus said he ordered, King Herod ordered,。
at the moment of his death,。
one person in each Jewish household。
was to be put to death, so that when he died,。
the entire nation would truly mourn,。
having lost their own loved ones.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now this is the true picture of King Herod in Matthew.。
He was a tyrant and not a king who cared about his people.。
When King Herod died, he was a tyrant.。
And he was a tyrant who did not care about his people.。
And he was a tyrant who did not care about his people.。
And he was a tyrant who did not care about his people.。
And he was a tyrant who did not care about his people.。
And he was a tyrant who did not care about his people.。
And he did not care about his people.。
When King Herod heard about the new born king,。
of course he was anxious and he interrogated the Magi。
and he asked them questions and command a lot of things.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, this is the first comparison.。
The second comparison is King Herod versus King Jesus.。
And Jesus was not just a king.。
The king described as born to be king.。
He didn't fight to have his kingship.。
He was born, granted the kingship.。
And he is the savior of the world.。
And he carried no weapons, no tanks, no guns.。
Yet he overcame the earthly king, Herod.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Here, verse 12 continues to talk about the story。
in kind of a humorous way.。
It tells us that the Magi was warned in a dream.。
So God sent them a dream,。
not to return from Bethlehem to Jerusalem,。
back to King Herod.。
So they went home by another route.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Remember I talked about Herod the Great.。
He had many military installations。
along the eastern border of Roman Empire.。
So that's a very interesting detail here。
that is kind of, has a sense of humor in the Bible.。
These Magi, they were unfamiliar with the land,。
but they escaped safely from the hands of Herod the Great.。
So here it tells you,。
the great power of Herod the Great。
was completely outwitted by God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And you can tell from today's news,。
those who seem to have a lot of power,。
they are actually very fragile.。
And in this Christmas story,。
the word most often used to describe Jesus。
is the child, the kid, the kid.。
The child Jesus, the child.。
Again and again, the Bible story。
describes Jesus as small, weak, vulnerable,。
and he has no power,。
but God used him, used this child,。
to accomplish his work.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And after the Magi had gone,。
Matthew continues the Christmas story。
in verses 13 and following.。
After the Magi had gone,。
an angel appeared to Joseph in a dream and said,。
"Get up, take the child and his mother。
"and escape to Egypt.。
"Stay there until I tell you,。
"for Herod the Great is going to search。
"for the child to kill him."。
So he got up, Joseph got up, and took, who?。
The child, right?。
The defenseless child.。
And his mother, during the night,。
and left for Egypt,。
where he stayed until the death of Herod the Great.。
So fulfilled what the Lord has said。
through the prophet,。
"Out of Egypt I called my son."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, if you know the Bible well,。
you know that the Lord is going to call Joseph,。
and he's going to call his son,。
and he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
And he's going to call his son, Joseph.。
If you know the Bible well,。
you heard the word, you know, Egypt,。
and out of Egypt,。
you will immediately thought of the Exodus story.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Because in the time of Jesus,。
in the time of Moses, many, many years ago,。
you know, there was also a tyrant king,。
Pharaoh himself.。
And he, Pharaoh, feared that he'd lose his power。
and he gave the order that all the Hebrew boys,。
again, the child, to be killed, to be born.。
And yet, there was one left behind。
and did not get killed.。
Who was that?。
Moses, right?。
Moses survived, and God preserved Moses。
and raised Moses up。
and later used Moses to defeat the tyrant, the Pharaoh,。
and then deliver his people out of Egypt.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then here, the Gospel story。
is telling us something very important here.。
And Jesus is not just another Moses.。
He is the greater Moses.。
He is the greater Moses because he's the final deliverer.。
He's the final king that will save us all。
and he's the king and savior.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
You see, hail the great looks powerful.。
He looks really powerful.。
And Pharaoh also looked powerful,。
but both of them were defeated because of God's work.。
God's salvation does not come through tanks,。
armies, military, political power.。
It came through a child, a vulnerable child,。
but he was protected by God。
and used by God to save his people.。
And that is the king of Jesus we celebrate at Christmas.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
You see, when we read the Christmas story,。
we realize that it's not a child's story.。
It's not a kid's story.。
It's not shallow.。
It's a story about power, authority, and salvation.。
And it asks us the question, asks you the question,。
which king will you trust?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
The Christmas story asks you,。
there are two ways of responding to Jesus, the newborn king.。
How do you see worship?。
And how do we see authority and power?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And when we think of worship,。
you know, giving the glory to the true king,。
we compare the Magi and the experts of Scripture, the scribes.。
And how did the Gentiles, how did the Magi, the pagans,。
come to see the Lord?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
First, the Magi came prepared.。
What did they bring?。
Gold, incense, myrrh.。
Those are the most expensive stuff of the day.。
And that's why later tradition, because there were three gifts,。
and we thought of the Magi, there were three of them, right?。
Of course, that's not what Scripture says.。
And actually, Isaiah, another prophet,。
had prophesied this moment.。
When the Savior, when the king, the Messiah come to us,。
the nations, the prophet says, Isaiah said,。
the nations, the peoples will bring gold, incense,。
and worship the Lord, and God will be pleased.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So they came prepared.。
Also, secondly, they rejoiced greatly.。
You see, worship was not a duty to them, but a joy.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then third, the Magi bowed down,。
and they worshiped the child,。
and they fell to the ground before him,。
and did not worship from a distance.。
They humbled themselves completely.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And this invites us to examine our own hearts.。
When we come to worship God, we're like the scribes,。
you know, proud and confident in their own knowledge,。
but they remain unmoved.。
Or are we like the Magi, joyful and humble and ready。
and prepared to give our hearts?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Next, the custom story shows us two different kinds。
of authority, two different kinds of power,。
Herod or Jesus.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
You see, earthly kings in this portrait。
often brings war, fear, or suffering to the people。
because they only care about themselves.。
Their power is maintained by force.。
Their power is maintained by violence.。
Herod ruled because of killing, intimidation, and control.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But the true king, Jesus,。
he came in a completely different way.。
You see that Jesus came without weapons,。
without armies and political power.。
He came as a defenseless child,。
but he came to save, he came to sacrifice himself,。
and he came to give his life to all of us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And ultimately he went to the cross,。
and he died for us and rose again.。
And through his sacrifice, you see, countless of people.。
You examine the church history, countless of people,。
millions and tons of millions of people。
have been saved, including all of us。
who proclaim the name of Jesus.。
And now God calls you and me to become his disciples,。
calls you and me to use the same way,。
vulnerable, weak, just to love and to seek peace,。
to influence other people, not by force,。
but by the love of the cross.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
This is the king we worship, and this is how we worship,。
and this is how we follow Jesus as Christians.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So remember this in this Christmas, remember this,。
and let us all pray together.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Jesus, we want to give you thanks.。
We want to worship you, we want to bow down before you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Because you are our king, you are the only king.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And Father, we come before you in this Christmas,。
we think of your kingship, how you die and sacrifice。
to save and redeem us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And Father, we want to not only give you thanks,。
but use our lives to worship you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And God, we ask that you will help us。
to live a life of love and peace.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Amen.。
Well, God bless you, and next week, make sure you come here.。
