Hey family, as always I am praying for you. I hope that you're warm and safe this week and。
enjoying the winter. If you're someone who likes to get out in the weather and enjoy the snow,。
then I hope you're doing that. If you just like to stay in and stay warm and sit by the fireplace and read or。
get on the couch and and watch a movie that you love, then I hope you're enjoying that. I hope that you're。
feeling well and being safe and warm even during this cold time. I also want to wish you a very happy。
Lunar New Year. I know all of the holidays have been so different this year。
because we're not able to gather together in the way that we normally would.。
But I hope that you are enjoying this time and that you're able to connect with family and friends, even if it's only virtually.。
Hope that you're able to connect with the people that you love and to share。
with them how much you love them and how grateful you are for their presence in your lives. And also hope that you're able to just。
enjoy celebrating and looking forward to the next year and what it could mean for us.。
I hope that however you're celebrating the Spring Festival this year, I hope that it's joyful and。
encouraging and a blessed time for you and for the people you love.。
Valentine's Day too, if you're celebrating that, I hope that you're enjoying that, celebrating that with someone that you love as well.。
And I want to remind you as always to connect with us. You can send us an email at info@urbanvoicechurch.com.。
We'd love to hear from you all.。
But today we're going to be looking again in Matthew chapter 6, still looking at these kingdom values, and we're finishing up。
the topic of anxiety. We've been talking about this for a few weeks now. So let's look at Matthew chapter 6 verse 25 here.。
We're going to read all the way down to verse 34. It says this,。
"Therefore I tell you do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body,。
what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing?。
Look at the birds of the air.。
They neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns and yet your heavenly Father feeds them.。
Are you not of more value than they? And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to the span of。
life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow.。
They neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.。
But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven,。
will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?。
Therefore do not be anxious saying, 'What shall we eat?' or 'What shall we drink?' or 'What shall we wear?'。
For the Gentiles seek after these things and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all.。
But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added to you.。
Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself.。
Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.。
As we talked about。
anxiety over the past few weeks, we talked about the fact that。
Jesus is not telling us here to be naive or out of touch with reality.。
He understands that our life is going to involve trouble and difficulty and challenges.。
We live in a broken and fallen world and。
he understands that we are going to be aware of those things and even concerned about them. And that's okay. That's actually healthy.。
We need to be aware and concerned of those challenges of life.。
But Jesus doesn't want that awareness and concern to grow into something。
that damages us and that causes us to to make unhealthy decisions.。
And that's one of the big things that we see a lot of times when we are。
trapped by worry and fear and anxiety.。
I've been there in my life and maybe you've been there or seen someone who was there in their life. When we begin to。
get anxious and worried and fearful, we begin to make unhealthy decisions that we would not。
make otherwise. And those decisions can be damaging to us or to the people around us。
because they're motivated by fear and they're motivated by our worry. And that fear and worry can cause us to do some really。
even uncharacteristic things. It can cause us to do some strange things that just。
are not what God has for us. And that's one of the reasons that Jesus is。
calling us out here and saying, "I don't want you to live in anxiety。
because I don't want you to to be motivated by fear.。
I don't want you to make decisions and do unhealthy things in your life that come about because of。
your fear and your worry." And in these verses, Jesus is lovingly acknowledging our need and our weakness.。
And he's saying, "Hey, I get it. I get that you get afraid. I get that you worry."。
There's so much beauty and love in the fact that Jesus is talking about this with us.。
And he's getting in the middle of our struggle and our mess and he's loving on us and I appreciate that so much.。
But he's also showing in these verses that his desire for us is not to get stuck in anxiety and fear and worry.。
His desire for us is not to be under bondage to it and not to be。
crushed by it. That's not what he has for us.。
It may be a lifelong challenge for us,。
but he wants us to experience freedom and healing as we go through life and even victory in this area of our life.。
And。
Jesus is pointing us to the fact that he。
cares for our physical needs and he cares for our emotional and spiritual needs and he cares about the things that are。
beyond our control even. We see this in these verses. Jesus is saying, "Look, I know you have stuff that worries you.。
I know you worry about the stuff that you need and I care about that.。
I know that you worry about things that happen that are hurtful or harmful or difficult and you have no control over them。
and I care about that." I think there's such a loving heart here。
that's displayed in these verses and we talked about how as we move away from anxiety, we need to change our focus.。
We need to let that change in focus bring about a change in perspective and we need to grow in our trust of Jesus.。
And what I want us to see this week is that Jesus is really telling us to pursue。
the heavenly kingdom and leave the rest to him. We can see this in verse 30.。
It says this, "But if God so clothes the grass of the field which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not。
much more clothe you, O you of little faith?"。
He's saying, "Look, God is caring for nature and God will much more care for you.。
So have faith. Keep your focus in the right place. Keep your eyes on the heavenly kingdom."。
And in verse 32, he says this, "For the Gentiles seek all after all these things and your heavenly father knows that you need them all."。
Jesus is drawing this contrast when he uses that word Gentiles.。
He's talking about the people who are outside the kingdom of God, the people who don't believe.。
And he's saying, "Look, the people who are outside the kingdom,。
they're the ones who get so worried about all this stuff.。
They're the ones who are really focused on their food and their clothing and those are huge issues to them."。
And for us in the modern world, we could add some things to that, right?。
We could say it's the people outside the kingdom who we expect to be focused on materialism and wealth。
and all of those physical things and status and prestige and what kind of house you live in。
and what kind of car you drive and your image on the internet and what kind of meals you're eating。
and do people think you're cool or do people think you're good or do people think you're concerned about the right issue socially。
or that your politics are in the right place.。
All of those things that get so wrapped up in who we are as people,。
those are the things that people outside the kingdom of God care about.。
Why do they care so much about those things? Because that's all they have.。
They don't know the kingdom of God. They don't know the deeper reality of God's truth.。
And so all they have is the physical material things that are right in front of them.。
All they have is their status or how other people feel about them.。
All they have is the opinion of someone else.。
All they have is the attention and adoration of someone else and that's it.。
But Jesus is saying, "Look, it shouldn't be that way for you because you have a different perspective.。
You know the kingdom of heaven.。
You should be pursuing the heavenly kingdom and leaving the rest to God."。
In verse 33, Jesus says this very clearly, very plainly, and very profoundly.。
He says, "But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things will be added to you."。
That is one of the most powerful and profound verses in the Sermon on the Mount.。
Jesus is saying, "Look, if you will pursue the values of the kingdom,。
if you will pursue rightness with God, and His righteousness."。
That word righteousness means living a life that is right with God,。
living in a way that is pleasing to God, living in a way that is obedient to God.。
If you will pursue the values of the kingdom, if you will pursue a life that is right with God,。
if you will seek to obey Him in your life, then God will add in all the rest.。
All those things we just talked about that are important to us as humans, God will add them in.。
God will take care of our physical needs.。
He'll make sure we have enough to eat and enough to wear.。
He'll make sure we have a place to live, and He'll make sure we have transportation.。
He will even make sure that we have relationships with other people that are healthy.。
God will add in all of those things if we will simply pursue His kingdom and the values of His kingdom.。
God will take care of the rest, and that's what Jesus is pointing us to in this verse.。
And Jesus is also reminding us here to take our hands off of what we can't control.。
Verse 34 is another verse that is just so profound and so powerful.。
It says this, "Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself.。
Sufficient for the day is its own trouble."。
I love that verse.。
Jesus is saying, "Why would you be worried about what's going to happen next week, or next year,。
or five years from now, because you have no control over next week, or next year, or five years from now.。
You can't do anything about it.。
And by the time you get to next week, and next year, and five years from now,。
you'll have a whole new set of circumstances, and a whole new set of problems probably,。
that you don't even know about right now.。
So why try to figure all that out and worry about that now?。
That day is going to have its own trouble.。
It's going to have its own issues to deal with.。
For today, you should simply trust and walk with God, and let Him be at work in your life,。
and let Him bring you peace, and comfort, and joy.。
And you can worry about next week, and next year, and five years from now, when you get there.。
Now Jesus is not saying that we shouldn't plan, or we shouldn't prepare for things in our life.。
There's other passages of Scripture that talk about that.。
That's something that we're supposed to do.。
That's a healthy thing for us to plan and prepare.。
But even as we plan and prepare, if we are followers of Jesus,。
we should do that with an understanding that anything could change.。
We should hold loosely to our plans and our preparations.。
We should understand that, "Okay, this is what I might like to do.。
This is what I might plan to do.。
But this could change.。
God could change the course of my life.。
God could change where I'm headed.。
God could change what's happening in my life."。
Or something else could happen, something external that's beyond my control could happen,。
that God might allow to come into my life, that might be difficult or challenging.。
So it may end up being completely different than what I want it to be.。
And that's okay.。
As believers, we can plan and prepare, but we need to hold very loosely to those things.。
Take our hands off of what we can't control,。
and stop being anxious about the future when we have no control over that.。
When I was a young man, I had a lot of plans for my future in terms of career and education。
and all these things.。
And God changed those as I went along.。
When I was an undergrad, I was planning to go on to grad school。
and to pursue a career in science, and God changed that.。
And I ended up going to grad school and pursuing a degree in divinity,。
and then going into the ministry.。
And at the time when I was going into those things,。
when I was in high school and the first few years of college,。
if you would have described to me my life now,。
I would have said, "That doesn't make any sense.。
I don't think that I would ever live that life."。
But now looking back, I can see how good it's been for me,。
and how God has been good every step of the way,。
and how all the things that God has brought into my life,。
the relationships and the work that He's given me,。
and the ministry that He's given me, has all been so good for me.。
And I wouldn't want to change anything.。
But when I was a young man looking forward, I never would have planned that pathway.。
I would have planned a completely different pathway that, to be perfectly honest,。
was really focused on me and was a much more selfish pathway.。
And to be perfectly honest, if I had lived out that pathway,。
I would probably be a very selfish and proud and arrogant and self-absorbed person.。
I'm really glad that I didn't live out that pathway.。
But I didn't know what was best for me.。
God did. God changed a lot of stuff.。
And so when we think about our future, we should say, "You know what?。
Instead of trying to focus on all these things I can't control,。
I'm going to allow God to be in control.。
I may plan and prepare, but I'm going to hold loosely to those plans and preparations,。
and I'm going to let God do what's best in my life,。
because He knows what's best for me.。
He sees things that are coming in a way that I do not see.。
I'm going to take my hands off and let God drive.。
I'm going to let Jesus take the control in my life."。
And that's really important for us, and it's a way that we can avoid a lot of anxiety.。
If we'll stop trying to put our hands on it and force it to work。
and make it work out the way we want it to, life's not like that.。
We can't control life.。
We can't just bring it all down and mold life to our will.。
We cannot do that.。
And if we'll take our hands off and say, "You know what?。
I'm going to trust the Lord to control and to work, even in the difficult moments."。
That's something that can relieve us of so much anxiety and give us so much peace.。
You know what Jesus is saying here in verses 33 and 34。
is so counterintuitive to how we feel about our circumstances.。
He's saying that as we release control and let go of our desire for control,。
we actually find peace.。
And that seems just backwards and upside down to our minds.。
When we are struggling with anxiety, a lot of times we feel like if we had more control,。
we would find peace.。
We feel like if only we had more control over that situation,。
only if only we had more control over our future,。
if only we had more control over that relationship,。
then we could stop worrying about it.。
And we feel like more control would bring us peace.。
And Jesus is saying here that actually what brings us peace is when we release。
and we stop trying to control everything.。
We stop trying to be in charge of it and we release and trust God and His love and care in our lives.。
And that also has such a powerful effect on our behavior.。
Like we talked about at the beginning,。
when we're motivated by fear and worry and anxiety,。
we can make really unhealthy decisions because we're being motivated from an unhealthy place.。
And we've experienced this in our lives.。
Think about it.。
Some of the worst financial decisions that you've made in your life。
probably came during a time of anxiety and fear.。
And that anxiety and fear motivated you to do something that was rash or impulsive。
or just wasn't a good idea.。
Something that maybe you never would have done otherwise.。
And it ended up being unhealthy for you.。
The same is true in our relationships.。
When we get anxious about a relationship and feel like we need to control that relationship more。
and we're motivated by fear and anxiety in that relationship,。
suddenly we become manipulative and we become difficult to interact with.。
And the relationship suffers because of our anxiety and our fear.。
So many things in our life are like that.。
We convince ourselves that it would be so much better if only we had more control.。
The reality is we don't control anything in our life anyway.。
And any control that we think we have is just an illusion.。
But we still think we should control it.。
And we still want to control it.。
But the truth is that when we release that control and say,。
"God, I can't do this. I can't make it happen.。
I don't want to act out of fear of what might go wrong or what could happen.。
I want to trust you and trust your goodness and trust your love and your care for me."。
When we begin to relate to our life and our circumstances and our relationships and our future。
and all the needs that we have from that place, that's when we really do experience peace.。
Peace comes through release, through letting go of those things,。
not through grasping for more control.。
And in verse 33 here, I love this verse,。
"But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness,。
and all these things will be added to you."。
Jesus is calling us to loyalty to kingdom priorities.。
You know, we talked about in the verses that precede this section on anxiety,。
where Jesus is talking about our focus.。
We talked about how Jesus in those verses was calling us to loyalty to kingdom values.。
And Jesus wanted us to be loyal to the values of the kingdom。
and to seek to live those out and to be obedient to God.。
And in this section, Jesus is calling us to loyalty to kingdom priorities.。
He's saying, "Okay, if these values are what you value in your life,。
if you value the things that are important to God,。
then your priorities, the things that you organize your life around,。
the things that you say, 'This is number one and this is number two and this is number three,'。
will reflect those values of the kingdom."。
And that's what Jesus is saying to us in Matthew 6, verse 33.。
"Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you."。
That's a fair question to say, "Well, what is the kingdom of God and his righteousness?。
What are those kingdom priorities?"。
Well, what do we know from Scripture?。
Jesus told us that the first commandment is to love God with all of our heart and soul and strength.。
And the second is to love our neighbor as ourself.。
And that those two commandments, if we would really live them out,。
that that would basically encompass all of the law and all of God's instructions to us in the Old Testament.。
So that's a great starting place to say, "Okay, if I want to be loyal to kingdom priorities,。
then the number one thing in my life is God and my relationship to him.。
And I want to love him with everything that I have.。
I want to love him with my mind. I want to love him with my heart.。
I want to love him with my will and my choices and my obedience.。
I want to love him with all of the whole of who I am as a person.。
I want all of that to holistically love God.。
And then out of that love for God, I want to love others.。
I want to love my family, my siblings, or my parents, or my spouse if you're married,。
or my children if you have children.。
Or I want to love my friends, the relationships that God has brought into my life,。
these people that God has allowed me to have relationship with.。
I want to love my co-workers. I want to love the people that I go to school with.。
I want to love the people at my church.。
I want to love the people in my community, in my neighborhood.。
I want to love people who have needs in my community, in my neighborhood, that I can serve and care for.。
Though that is a kingdom priority, and to say that is more important,。
loving others is more important than me getting rich, or than me being comfortable,。
or than me stacking up a lot of possessions, or than me having an image of being some amazing person。
through my social media accounts, or than me feeling good about myself。
because I'm trying to do things to impress other people or to perform to some standard.。
It's more important for me to love others.。
It's more important for me, as Jesus said, to lay down my life for someone else.。
Remember, Jesus said that greater love has no one than this,。
than to lay down your life for your friends.。
It's more important for me to sacrifice for someone else than to just seek my own good,。
and my own wants, and my own desires.。
That's what it looks like to have loyalty to kingdom priorities.。
And that's what Jesus is calling us to in this verse.。
He's saying, "Look, if you will seek the kingdom of God first,。
if your loyalty will be towards the things that are important to God,。
and you will order your life in that way,。
if you will say, 'First and foremost, it's about loving God and my relationship to Him,。
and secondly, I'm going to love others, and other things are going to fall in behind that,'"。
Jesus is saying, "Then God will add in everything else you will need,。
and you can finally stop being anxious,。
because you won't have to worry about the future.。
You won't have to say, 'Well, is God going to take care of me?'"。
Because you will be so in love with God, and so caught up in your relationship to Him,。
that you will know that His presence is what sustains you,。
and what encourages you, and what gives you joy and peace,。
whether the future is good,。
or whether the future is something that you might think of as bad.。
You can say, "You know what? I'm going to enjoy God's presence in my relationship with Him。
if I'm healthy, or if I'm sick.。
I'm going to enjoy my relationship with God and His presence in my life。
if I'm rich, or if I'm poor.。
I'm going to enjoy my relationship with God and His presence in my life。
if I'm in a place of comfort, or a place of discomfort."。
And that is the testimony of Christianity throughout the ages.。
There have been so many people in the history of Christianity。
who have lived and been imprisoned for their faith,。
or been persecuted, or even tortured or killed because they believed in Jesus,。
and yet in the midst of that, they were joyful,。
and they were full of peace and full of comfort.。
That makes no sense, but it's because their priority was on loving God,。
and they were so caught up in their relationship to Him,。
that the earthly and physical realities didn't bother them anymore,。
and they had peace and comfort in the midst of something difficult,。
and uncomfortable, and painful.。
And all of us can experience that.。
We can experience that, whether things are good or bad.。
We can find peace and comfort and joy in life.。
And we can learn to love others, whether things are good or bad.。
Most of us as humans, we love others conditionally,。
and when we feel good, and when someone else is making us feel good,。
then we love them back, and we treat them kindly.。
If they're nice to us, then we're nice to them, and we all get along.。
But if someone's unkind to us, then of course we're not going to be kind to them.。
And if things are not going well in our life,。
then we're going to be grouchy and cranky, and we're going to snap at other people.。
And Jesus is saying that if we will have loyalty to kingdom priorities,。
and say, "I'm going to love others, regardless of my circumstances,。
even if I'm mistreated, or even if I'm going through something difficult,。
I'm still going to love others,"。
that we will experience God's goodness, and we will experience God's peace.。
And we will not be so worried and anxious about what's going on.。
And God will add those other things that we need into our life.。
So I want to close out this study we've been doing on anxiety。
by just asking you to think about what it is that brings you anxiety.。
And this is a question for me too. I grapple with this as well.。
And I want to point you to the fact that whatever it is, God is bigger.。
God's love is stronger.。
God's grace is deeper.。
God's power is greater.。
And if you're having trouble believing that right now,。
if the problem, if the obstacle seems bigger than anything else,。
then I want to point you back to Scripture.。
Go back to God's truth.。
The Scripture tells us God's truth about reality as it really is,。
and about who we really are, and about the way the world really is.。
Look at that and see what it says about you.。
See what it says about your circumstances, and bring that into your situation.。
So if you're anxious, and you're worried, and you're afraid,。
because of your past, maybe something that you've done,。
or something that's been done to you,。
and you feel like you can't get over it, you feel like you can't recover from it,。
you feel like you can't be forgiven, or you can't be clean,。
or you can't get free from it, or you'll never get over it or get past it,。
let me tell you what the Scripture says.。
The Scripture says that God's grace is greater, and deeper,。
and stronger than anything that we've gone through.。
Whether it was created by our own sin, or created by someone else's sin,。
someone who harmed us in some way, God's grace is greater.。
And healing, and freedom, and victory is possible because of Jesus.。
That's what the Scripture says.。
If you're anxious, and worried, and fearful because of your future,。
and you think about things in your life that you want to happen,。
and you're afraid that they might not work out,。
and they might not go well for you,。
and they might not end up being what you need, or what you want in your life,。
look at the Scripture.。
What does God say?。
What does Jesus say right in this passage?。
That God's love and care is complete and all-encompassing,。
even for the smallest animals and for the flowers of the field.。
And if God is that good to them, you matter much more to God.。
And He will be much better to you.。
He will care for you.。
He will love you.。
He will protect you.。
He will guide you.。
He will be with you.。
And even the difficult things that He allows to come into your life。
will be for your good to strengthen you, to grow you,。
to make you more like Jesus,。
and to bring about God's glory in your life.。
Maybe you're anxious, or worried, or afraid。
because of relationships in your life,。
and things that you feel like are not going well,。
and they're beyond your control.。
What does the Scripture say about that?。
The Scripture says that God is able to change any heart.。
God is able to transform any situation.。
God is able to defend people, even from lies and false accusations.。
God is able to protect people,。
even from people who are out to do evil。
and who are intentionally trying to harm someone else.。
Whatever you're dealing with in your relationships,。
God has the power to bring healing.。
God has the power to protect you.。
God has the power to restore.。
God has the power to fix it.。
And God wants to do that.。
You can trust Him.。
Maybe you're anxious, and afraid, and worried。
because you look at the world around us。
and you see all of the mess.。
Maybe it's the COVID-19 pandemic,。
or maybe it's political unrest and turmoil,。
or maybe it's injustice,。
or maybe it's just things that go on。
in different parts of the world。
that you care about, but you can't fix them.。
You can't change them.。
You can't do anything about them.。
What does the Scripture say about those things?。
The Scripture says that God holds the world in His hands,。
that God laughs at the nations。
because they're so weak before Him,。
and that men make their plans,。
and even evil men, and government leaders,。
and people in positions of power make their plans.。
But ultimately, God rules over it all.。
And God is a God of love, and care, and justice,。
and commitment to His people.。
And so God takes His people safely。
through all of the turmoil, all of the circumstances,。
all of the plagues, and pestilence,。
and everything that happens.。
That's what the Scripture says.。
Whatever it is that causes you to be afraid,。
causes you to worry, causes you to be anxious,。
God is bigger.。
You can take it to Him.。
You can pour it out before Him.。
You can trust Him.。
And I would encourage you to do that in your life.。
As we talked about that very first week,。
Jesus lays it out for us in this passage.。
We've got to change our focus,。
put our eyes on God, and how great and good He is,。
and how great His love and care is for us.。
Allow that change in focus。
to start to change our perspective,。
where suddenly the problems in our life。
are not such a big deal,。
and our relationship to God is what strengthens us,。
and anchors us, and sustains us,。
and gives us joy and hope,。
even in difficult times.。
And allow that change in perspective。
to really start us growing in trust for Jesus,。
and saying, "God, I see who You are.。
I see what You've done.。
And because of that,。
I trust that You will take care of me.。
I trust that You will love me.。
I trust that You will bring good things into my life,。
and not evil.。
And I trust that You will be in control of any situation,。
even the most difficult things in my life."。
And we can experience the peace,。
and the comfort, and the hope。
that God has for us。
when we begin to put that type of trust in Him.。
I'm praying for you。
as you walk through anxiety, and fear,。
and worry in your life.。
And you can pray for me.。
And I know that God wants us to find peace in Jesus.。
Let's pray.。
God, thank You for Your truth,。
and for the comfort that it brings us, God.。
I pray that You would help me,。
and help us to learn to release control,。
and to just trust You,。
and to say, "God, we are going to let go。
of these things in our life that cause us fear,。
these things we can't control,。
these things that knock us around,。
and get us sideways,。
and just get us confused,。
and cause us to be afraid and anxious.。
God, we're going to release those things,。
give them up to You,。
let You have them,。
let You take them from our hands.。
And we're going to trust You to do what You do.。
What do You do?。
You do good things, God.。
You work miracles.。
You are a fixer.。
You are a healer.。
You are a repairer.。
You are a builder.。
You are the one who takes our brokenness。
and makes something beautiful, God.。
And our world is full of brokenness,。
our lives are full of brokenness,。
but we trust You to fix, to heal,。
to restore, to repair.。
And God, we thank You for that.。
We praise You for that today.。
And we ask that we would grow in our trust of You,。
and find peace, and comfort, and hope。
as we put our trust in You,。
to be at work in our hearts and in our lives.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
