>> Thanks, it's always good to see you.。
Why don't we say hi to your neighbors?。
Say hi and give them a fist bump or something.。
Greet them in the Lord.。
It's always good to worship together as a church.。
This is what we are being called to.。
One thing is very important that Muir announced is that the new devotion series on Apostles。
Creek.。
All right, so if you don't know anything about Apostles Creek, I hope you will enjoy the。
devotional.。
Every single day we're going to send it out to your chat group, to your social media group.。
So please read that because in the following weeks I'm going to go through sermon series。
on the Apostles Creek, which is very, very important.。
Apostles Creek is a summary of our faith.。
How many of you have read through the Bible, the whole Bible?。
From cover to cover, from Genesis to, wow, that's great, that's great.。
Two, all right, three, four, all right, are you sure?。
Four, five, okay, more hands, okay, six.。
All right, how many of you have read through the entire Bible but you don't understand。
much of it?。
Yeah, I mean, right?。
We all struggle to get to know the Word.。
We believe that the Bible is written for us.。
It's for all generations of Christians, all right, even though it's not directly to us,。
but it's for us, it's written for us.。
However, when you read the Bible, there are tons of things that we may find confusing。
or we just don't have enough background information to know about it.。
However, the Apostles Creek is a summary to help us, it's like a big scale map to understand。
what the Christian faith is all about, all right?。
So it's very important, so make sure you go through the daily devotional on Apostles Creek,。
all right?。
So today, we're going to continue our series on the last days, the eschaton, what we call。
eschatology, right?。
So we're going to read the passage from 1 Thessalonians 4, but before we read that,。
let's look at this chart.。
This is a very popular understanding of what is going on in the last days, what is going。
on before, right before the yellow arrow, the second coming of Christ.。
This is very popular in our American culture especially, even in Chinese churches, even。
in our culture.。
There are many, many people who promote this kind of understanding.。
Now as you can see, the kind of the light blue line is the timeline from left to right.。
So we're going ahead into this timeline, going into some sort of future, right?。
And the church is right there, we are right in between.。
I have talked about the already and not yet concept.。
Christ has already come.。
He died on the cross and he rose again.。
And then there are generations of churches, right?。
And before that yellow arrow, the really glorious second coming of Christ, most people will。
find that this kind of popular understanding is what you hear a lot of time.。
Is that before the second coming of Christ, before the yellow arrow, before the glorious。
second coming of Christ, there will be seven years of tribulation.。
There will be unprecedented suffering on earth.。
And then, right before the seven years of tribulations, there will be something called。
rapture.。
Something called secret rapture.。
So Christ is coming in this scheme, in this kind of understanding, Christ is going to。
come two times.。
The first time is in secret, alright?。
Suddenly in secret, nobody knows.。
And then rapture the believers, rapture the church, disappear out of the world, okay?。
Out of the world and taken us to heaven, alright?。
And then the seven years of tribulation will kick in on earth.。
And there will be wars and there will be tons of, you know, crises happening on earth for。
seven years.。
And then after the seven years, after this crisis, Christ will come again.。
That's the yellow arrow.。
And then the new heaven and new earth will be launched, will be escort on earth.。
Now this is, as I said, a very popular understanding of what is going on in our days, alright?。
Especially in American culture.。
There are many people who talk about rapture.。
You can see on the upper left is the left behind series.。
This is a very popular novel series trying to put together a story of some kind to talk。
about the secret rapture and then seven years of tribulations.。
Very popular and millions and millions of copies are being sold.。
And even being translated into different languages, including Korean, including Chinese, and all。
sorts of Asian languages.。
Very popular.。
And also there are on the lower left is some sort of bumper stickers.。
You can buy and talk about rapture.。
In case of rapture, can you see that, the white one?。
This car will be unmanned because you will disappear according to the scheme.。
And then at the lower center, warning in case of rapture, this Facebook page will no longer。
be updated because you will disappear, right?。
As the church, as believers, you will disappear.。
And then on the right, on the background, there is a rapture ready index webpage.。
You can go check it out.。
But I advise you not to because this is a popular cultural understanding of second coming.。
It may not be the right, correct understanding because when we read the Bible, we need to。
understand there is a background to every single passage, including the passages we。
are going to read, the so-called rapture passage.。
So we're going to read this passage line by line together and see how it applies to us.。
So I'm going to set it right out front.。
I'm going to debunk this popular understanding.。
There's no secret rapture of this kind.。
So what this passage is all about.。
Let's do this.。
First Thessalonians chapter 4 verse 13.。
We're going to start from there.。
"Brothers, we do not want you to be ignorant about those who fall asleep or to grieve like。
the rest of men who have no hope."。
Now you need to understand when we read the letters to the churches, Paul's letters to。
churches or other letters to the church in the New Testament is always a reply email.。
What do I mean by that?。
You do all, you all do emails, right?。
Let's say you get the reply emails only.。
You don't get the original email.。
But from the reply email, you kind of figure out what the original email is all about,。
right?。
You know what I'm saying?。
That's how you read the letters.。
That's how you read First Thessalonians.。
Paul wrote this stuff to the church in Thessalonica.。
It's because he is trying to answer some of the questions that they have asked.。
So the churches in Thessalonica, they have some problems.。
They have some issues.。
So they wrote to Paul or they have a messenger sent to Paul.。
And Paul is writing First Thessalonians chapter 4, this passage as a reply to tell them what。
the answers are to address their questions.。
So what he's saying is that there seems to be some vital concern for the early Christians。
in Thessalonica.。
The early Christian church, they, of course, they had hope for the future coming of Christ,。
the future resurrection, right?。
Because Christ has already rose from the dead, right?。
Someday he will come according to his word.。
And the return of Christ in glory, everyone in the early church, in all churches would。
believe that.。
So before these things happen, some of the people in the Thessalonian church have passed。
away.。
Some of those in Christ, brothers and sisters in Christ, they have passed away or some of。
those even martyr, died for their faith.。
A few of them.。
So obviously the Christians in Thessalonica were doubting because they have no hope.。
What about these people?。
Would they miss, would they miss out the glorious coming of Christ?。
If he comes anytime, right?。
If human history will conclude with the end, the eschaton, right?。
God, God's son will come in glory.。
Those of us who receive Christ, right?。
Will welcome Christ in glory.。
What about those who have passed away in Jesus?。
What about those Christians, brothers and sisters who have passed away?。
Will they miss the glorious coming of Christ promised to us?。
Will they?。
And Paul is saying, absolutely no way.。
Paul is saying, we do not want you to be ignorant about those who fall asleep.。
Those who have passed away.。
Now falling asleep is a metaphor, meaning dying in Christ.。
So Paul is saying, absolutely no way.。
Let's see how he answer the questions.。
Verse 14, we believe that Jesus died and rose again.。
So we believe that God will bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in him.。
According to the Lord's own word, we tell you that we who are still alive, who are left。
to the coming of the Lord, will certainly not precede those who have fallen asleep.。
Now what is he talking about?。
He said those who have fallen asleep, again it's a metaphor for dying in Christ.。
They will not miss out the glorious second coming of Christ.。
They will actually be the first in line to welcome Christ, to see Christ, to see his。
glory.。
So the apostle is saying, the dead in Christ, they will rise from the dead first, followed。
by us, right?。
They will rise first.。
They will be taken up into the air.。
And we who are alive as coming, will also be taken up in the air to join the Lord, so。
called to meet the Lord in the air as Jesus is coming down in trumpet sound and glory.。
Verse 16, for the Lord himself, he's talking about second coming, will come down from heaven。
with a loud command, with the voice of archangel, with the trumpet call of God, the dead in。
Christ will rise first.。
After that, we who are still alive and the left, will be caught up together with them。
in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air.。
So you got a picture, at the end of human history, when Christ comes again, it will。
be the appearance of a public appearance, a loud command, the voice of archangels, the。
trumpet call of God, the dead in Christ will rise first.。
They will welcome Christ first.。
Now it's not that Christ will come so far in the mid air, and then some of those will。
rise from the dead and meet him in the air, and then we turn back to heaven.。
No as you see the context here, Christ is on the way from heaven to earth.。
It's a one way street.。
He is on the way coming, and then those who are on earth, those who are dead in Christ,。
they will rise first and will meet him in the air as he coming down.。
So it's kind of being sent to rise and then to meet Christ in the air and then come back。
to earth.。
So the imagery is this, we who are still alive, when the second coming happens, we will be。
with those who have died in the Lord.。
We will be meeting the coming Christ, descending Christ as he is returning in glory.。
Actually this is the technical term here, to meet the Lord in the air, to meet, to meet.。
What does it mean?。
It is a technical term frequently used in the Roman Empire.。
For a city, they will have a welcome committee, get ready and prepare to welcome a governor。
or a victorious general or the Caesar, the king, the emperor to come to town.。
When emperor comes to town, when an important government official comes to town, the city。
will organize a welcoming party, a welcoming team.。
They will go out in the midway to meet the emperor first, okay, to worship him, to meet。
him and then escort him back to the city, back to the town.。
That is what it means to meet the Lord in the air.。
So Paul is using a first century political scene to talk about the coming of the true。
king.。
The true king is Jesus, is Christ himself.。
Now when the Roman armies come back from a campaign, when the Roman armies go out to。
the east or west or north or south, when they conquer their enemies, they have taken some。
captives and they will return to the city of Rome and before they will enter the city。
of Rome, they will camp outside of the city, about a mile or so away.。
And then they will send a messenger into the city and talk to the senate of Rome to announce。
the immediate arrival of the victorious king, of the general, of the victorious army.。
Then they will give the city some time.。
The city planners will put together some sort of people to decorate the city and to prepare。
for a parade for the conquering king, the hero for homecoming.。
So this is the sort of the political scene that often happens in the city of Rome and。
many different cities in the Roman Empire.。
And then after the planning, there will be a trumpet blast being made.。
And then the signal will be for the armies to march in triumphant into the city.。
That's the meeting committee, the welcoming committee, to welcome the king into the city.。
So the citizens of Rome sometimes are being invited to join the welcoming committee, to。
be invited to go outside of the city, outside of the city wall, to join the parade and march。
back through the arch of triumph with the victorious army.。
Some of the officials, some of the high status citizens will participate in this kind of。
victory march.。
Now this sort of things actually also happen in our days.。
When I first came to Chicago, it was about 20 some years ago, some of the locals who。
know all the local history here, they told me some interesting stories.。
And I remember this part, we were driving in South Loop.。
He told me this story, a local friend.。
He said in the mid '90s, in the mid '90s, those of you who are old enough to remember。
this, right, in Chicago, mid '90s, when President, ex-President Clinton came to Chicago, he landed。
in Grand Park with a military helicopter in the mid '90s.。
And then there were a party of people welcoming him.。
In order to prepare for his arrival, the city of Chicago actually renovate part of Roosevelt。
Road.。
Have you been there?。
There was a stretch of Roosevelt Road nicer than the rest of it.。
You know why?。
My local friend told me it was because the city, in order to prepare for the arrival。
of the ex-President, arrival of Clinton, they renovate this entire stretch of Roosevelt。
Road so that when he comes for the National Convention, there will be honor, there will。
be a glory, right?。
It's kind of a celebration.。
Do you know that?。
You didn't know that, right?。
You pay for it.。
(Laughter) Now this is a sort of the political scene。
Paul was using.。
And he was obviously using the first century political scene from the Roman Empire and。
trying to tell you who is the true king and how we should prepare ourselves for his second。
coming.。
Now you can see throughout Paul's writings that he often borrows or subverts the Roman。
political images and apply them, subvert them, apply them to Christ.。
Because Christ is the only true king, not Caesar.。
Now you can imagine Paul is trying to use that scene to talk about the arrival, second。
coming of Christ in a horizontal way.。
Like Christ is like the victorious general, the victorious king marching toward the city.。
And then we as a city, we will prepare ourselves for the arrival of the true king.。
We will go out midway to meet him, right?。
And then the first in line to meet him would be those who are already dead in Christ.。
Now in the ancient days, when you die, your tomb is often outside the city wall.。
You got it?。
Because it's unclean, right?。
It's unclean.。
It's always outside the city wall.。
So you go out of the city, out of the city gate, you look around, there are tombs, right?。
That is the picture in Jerusalem, there is a picture in Rome, there is a picture in a。
lot of ancient Mediterranean cities.。
The tombs are outside the city wall.。
So you can see what Paul is doing.。
When the king is coming toward the town, the first to meet the victorious king of course。
are those who are dead already.。
They will rise first.。
They will be the first in line to meet the true king.。
And then we who are still alive within the city, we will join the welcoming committee.。
And we go out midway to meet Christ.。
Now that's the horizontal picture.。
Now I want you to turn it 90 degree, vertical.。
That is the picture of the second coming of Christ.。
Of course Christ is not coming horizontally.。
Christ is coming vertically.。
He is from heaven.。
He is from above.。
So when Christ comes in the time of second coming, midway, those who are dead in Christ,。
they will rise first, be the first to meet Him in midair.。
Not to go away and disappear.。
But as He is descending, as He is coming on earth with glory, we rise with those who are。
dead in Christ, will come in midway to meet Him and come down.。
You see what I'm saying, right?。
We will be joining the welcoming committee to welcome the true king.。
Now as you can imagine, Christ coming in glory from heaven.。
Those who die in the Lord will go up and meet Him in the air.。
That is the second coming Paul is talking about.。
Now why does he talk about these things?。
As I told you again and again, in this series when we talk about the book of Revelation。
or the second coming of Christ, eschatology, eschaton, the end of time, the last days.。
You need to understand in the New Testament when it talks about the second coming of Christ,。
it's not some abstract idea.。
It's not for us to, okay let's figure out, are there any things happening, what kind。
of terrible things will happen, is it a weather forecast or something like that.。
It's not abstract idea.。
It is not newspaper written ahead of time.。
It's actually a very practical teaching.。
Eschatology is always practical.。
You know the end is always practical.。
Now why do I say that?。
418, remember Paul is trying to answer a question from the Thessalonians questions.。
What kind of questions did they have?。
Some of them are martyrs.。
They passed away in the Lord, right?。
And they're really really sad.。
They're really heartbroken.。
Now Paul is trying to say to them, they will not miss out the glorious coming of Christ.。
In fact they will be the first.。
They will be the first to see the glorious kingdom, right?。
Those who are dead in Christ, they will rise first.。
They will welcome Him first and followed by us.。
418, he says, "Therefore, encourage each other with these words."。
How can these words, the things that we talk about, the second coming of Christ, the coming。
to meet error and welcome Him back.。
How can we encourage one another with these words?。
You remember at the beginning he says, "We grieve for those who passed away in the Lord."。
We grieve.。
Our brothers and sisters, our family members, those who are in Christ, those who are Christians.。
They passed away before we do.。
Of course we will grieve, right?。
Tomorrow I'm going to a funeral, a Christian funeral.。
Of course we will grieve.。
We will weep.。
Because such a loss to all of us, right?。
The death of your loved one is the death of part of you.。
It's taking away part of you, a big part of you.。
We will grieve.。
But Paul is saying, as we grieve, we don't grieve with those who are without hope.。
We have a hope that transcends death.。
That transcends all of our tears.。
Because someday Christ will come and make things right.。
When the new heaven and new earth come down from heaven, Revelation, the last two chapters,。
there will be no pain and no death and no tears.。
There will be no evil.。
That is the hope that transcends everything else, even our final enemy, death itself.。
I always say when I officiate a funeral, I always say in a Christian funeral, we don't。
say goodbye to our loved one.。
What do we say?。
We say, "See you later."。
We say, "See you later."。
That is the glorious hope we have in Christ.。
So don't forget that.。
Don't forget that.。
Secondly, eschatology is practical because it help us to put things in perspective.。
Put our lives and our lifestyle, today's work, today's how you live, put things in。
perspective.。
Why?。
Because we know there's a final destination we're going to.。
And Christ will come again.。
The new heaven and new earth, the new kingdom, the future kingdom, is the country that we。
are going to.。
I always tell Christians, we have two passports.。
The first passport is our earthly passport.。
Maybe China, maybe UK, maybe American passport.。
That is one of our passports.。
The other passport is the kingdom of God passport.。
Now if you compare it side by side, the earthly passport will expire.。
You have to renew it.。
And sometimes you cannot renew it.。
You got to change it.。
That is your first passport.。
Your national identity.。
Where you belong on earth.。
It will expire.。
It has expiration date.。
Did you check that?。
Your passport?。
It has expiration date.。
Your early citizenship will expire.。
But our kingdom of God passport will not expire.。
It's eternal.。
Okay, you don't have to check it.。
But what you do need to check is that where you are living up to, that passport, that。
identity.。
We are not so much living for our earthly identity.。
No matter what nationality you belong to, it will pass away.。
You know that?。
It will pass away.。
It really doesn't matter at the time of funeral.。
What will last forever is your heavenly citizenship.。
That you belong to God.。
You belong to true king, Jesus himself.。
So it's practical in that sense we need to remind ourselves.。
Are we really the heavenly citizen?。
So as you can tell, there were a lot of passages we have worked through in the past many sermons。
of this series.。
Be it book of Revelation or book of Matthew or other passages.。
When Jesus talks about the last days, when Paul talks about the last days, he always。
talks about how we live today.。
How we live in light of the future.。
How we live in light of the coming kingdom.。
How we live in light of that future.。
Remember the gospel of Matthew?。
He talks about, Jesus talks about his coming.。
It's a list of signs, right?。
There are many things that will tell you his coming is imminent.。
His coming anytime.。
And that's always followed by some sort of practical teaching.。
The parables.。
Remember the parables of ten bridesmaids, right?。
Five of them prepared the oil.。
Five of them did not prepare for the oil.。
So when the groom comes, finally they have to go, again the same picture.。
They go halfway out to meet the groom, right?。
To join him and escort him back to the banquet.。
Five of those who are prepared, they can enter the banquet.。
The five of those who thought they have prepared, but they did not.。
So they could not go into the banquet.。
The master said, "I don't even know you."。
That's the first parable.。
The second parable is the talent parable.。
With the master going away, and give his talents to his three servants.。
Five thousand, two thousand, and one thousand.。
Those who have five thousand and two thousand, they took the risk and invest and increase。
the asset of their master.。
And they are prepared when after a long time, after a time of delay, finally the master。
comes back.。
Those who had, he who had the five thousand and he who had the two thousand, they are。
prepared to give an account.。
Because they did serve the master, increase his asset.。
The last one, with the one thousand, didn't even bother to take the smallest risk to increase。
the master's asset.。
So always, when Jesus talks about the last days, always reminding us how you should live。
today.。
Are you living in light of that future?。
Are you living worthy as a citizen of heavenly kingdom?。
You know, whatever the kingdom characterize should be our characteristics.。
If the future kingdom is full of love, then our life should live in light of that, right?。
We will practice love.。
If the future kingdom is nothing but justice, but righteousness, then our lives, our decisions,。
our choices should reflect that set of values.。
Right?。
Live according to the future.。
Some people said, and I'll close it with this thought.。
Some people said questions are actually aliens, right?。
Aliens, not the monsters, okay?。
Foreigners, okay?。
Where are we from?。
We are from the future.。
Because we are heading to the future, we belong to the future.。
And we bring stuff from the future to the present.。
We are aliens in that sense.。
We live differently.。
Why?。
When people look at your lifestyle, look at your marriage, look at your family, look。
at how you work, look at how you make decisions, they will wonder why you are different.。
Well, you are different because you belong to the future kingdom.。
You don't belong to the earthly kingdom.。
You make decisions differently.。
You set a priority differently.。
Why you come to worship today?。
Instead of, you know, just get a couple more hours of sleep, right?。
Because your decisions is affected by your hope, by your future.。
Let's do that.。
Share the gospel.。
You see the gospel is a huge thing.。
Because it talks about, it affects your eternal destiny.。
Live according to the future kingdom.。
Prepare yourselves to meet the Lord.。
Alright, one question, final question you need to ask yourself.。
If Jesus comes today, or if you are being called back home to see, one cosmic question。
you need to ask yourself is that will God see you and you can give an account?。
And Jesus will say, "You are my faithful and wise servant.。
You can enter the kingdom."。
Right, that is a cosmic question for you this week.。
Live according to the future.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we give you thanks because of your grace you have called us into your kingdom.。
It is your grace we have been called your children.。
And I pray that each and every one of us will prepare ourselves knowing that our identity。
belongs to the future kingdom.。
That we need to prepare ourselves to give an account to you, Master.。
To serve you, to increase the value of the kingdom, to build up your church, to build。
our lives so that you get to grow.。
And I pray that when you come, you ask us whether we are being faithful to what you。
have entrusted to us.。
And we'll say, "Yes, we have been faithful, Master."。
So pray that we'll grow spiritually in this way, to live according to our future hope.。
To live according to the future eschaton.。
Help us to live as your citizens, as your heavenly citizens.。
That when Christ comes back, we'll be able to give an account.。
We praise you week after week.。
We strive to be a better citizen of your heavenly kingdom.。
And pray that you will continue to transform us with your grace.。
That we'll be more like your son.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Well, thank you.。
