[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Good morning, brothers and sisters.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Today, we will continue to learn efficiency.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
It's about not just a name, but life.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Therefore, a prisoner for the Lord。
urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling。
to which you have been called.。
With all humility and gentleness,。
with patience, bearing with one another in love,。
eager to maintain the unity of the spirit。
in the bond of peace.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
There is one body and one spirit,。
just as you were called to the one hope that。
belonged to your call.。
One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God,。
and the Father of all, who is over all, and through all,。
and in all.。
But grace was given to each one of us。
according to the measure of Christ's gift.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Before we begin, let me ask you to imagine a scene.。
Suppose you walk into the Michelin three-star restaurant.。
At the entrance, you see the prestigious Michelin。
certification displayed proudly.。
The interior is elegant and luxurious.。
Every waiter is dressed sharply in suit,。
and everything just feels professional.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
You order their signature pasta dish,。
full of anticipation, thinking that today I finally。
got the taste of the work of a world-class chef.。
A few minutes later, a waiter brings you your food.。
You open the plate, and what do you see?。
Instant noodle soup in plain hot water。
with a sausage on the top.。
So you freeze.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
You call the manager and ask, wait a minute.。
Isn't the Michelin three-star restaurant?。
Why are you serving instant noodles?。
The manager comes over and calmly says, yes,。
we are Michelin three-star.。
The certification is real.。
As for the food, that's not really the important part.。
Would that sound absurd to you?。
Of course it is.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And yet, many Christians live exactly like that.。
We carry the identity of citizen of heaven.。
We carry the label Christian.。
We say we belong to God, but our lives often。
do not match our identity.。
When conflict comes, we lose our temper immediately.。
When interests are threatened, we use worldly method.。
We gossip, criticize, and tear others down,。
living no differently from the world.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
In today's passage, Paul tells us something very important.。
Since we are called by God, our lives。
should be worthy of that calling.。
We should not merely carry a spiritual label。
while living in a worldly life.。
Today, we will look at this passage in three parts.。
First, those who are called must remember their identity.。
Second, those who are called must live out。
the character of Christ.。
And third, those who are called must diligently preserve unity.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Paul says in verse 1, "I, therefore,。
a prisoner for the Lord, urge you。
to walk in a manner worthy of this calling to which you。
have been called."。
This is a major turning point in the whole book of Ephesians.。
What did Paul spend the first three chapters talking about?。
He talked about how Father chose us, how Christ redeemed us,。
how did the Holy Spirit seal us, and once we were dead in sin.。
Well, now we have life.。
And once we were separated from God,。
now we belong to God's family.。
Only in this chapter 4 does Paul begin。
to talk about how should we live.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
This is the logic of our gospel.。
Grace comes first.。
Response comes second.。
Identity comes first.。
Lifestyle comes second.。
God always acts first.。
And then we respond.。
God moves first, and then we follow.。
This is the gospel.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now compare what other religions in the world says.。
What do they say?。
They will say, fix yourself first.。
You have to do your part better first.。
And change yourself first.。
Maybe God will start loving you.。
But what the gospel tells us is something completely different.。
The gospel says, God loves you when you are still unworthy.。
And this is the grace from God.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
There is another reason Paul waits until chapter 4。
to talk about Christian living.。
Paul knows this.。
It's so true that if you don't know who you are,。
you will never live the way that you are supposed to live.。
Without gospel and doctrine, what's。
left here or in Christianity?。
When you are told to try hard and better。
and become a better person, that is not gospel.。
That is moral advice.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And this world always has plenty of moral advice.。
When we are in trouble, we always。
focus solely on changing the outside circumstances。
or our behavior, and we miss the root issue--。
understanding the gospel.。
Why do we become jealous?。
Why do we fight?。
Why do we hurt each other?。
Because we forgot who we are.。
We forgot that we are the people of grace.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
That's why Paul waits until chapter 4。
to start talking about how we should live.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Paul says, "You are called."。
What does that actually mean?。
It means we did not find God first by ourselves.。
God calls us first, just like Lazarus.。
Jesus stood before a dead man and said, "Lazarus, come out."。
A dead man can never respond on his own。
unless Jesus calls him.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
In the same way, spiritually speaking, we were dead.。
But God called us.。
So let me ask you this.。
Why are you a Christian?。
Is it because that you are smarter or better or more。
spiritual than others?。
No.。
It is about grace.。
Grace came to you.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
When Paul says, "Walking in a manner worthy of your calling,"。
what does "worthy" mean?。
It does not mean earning salvation.。
Paul is not saying, "Behave better。
so you deserve this salvation."。
That's not what he means.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So what he actually means here--。
let your life match the grace you have received.。
Live in a way that fits your identity.。
If your identity is heavenly, don't live like the world.。
Imagine Pastor Mark got drunk every day,。
lying outside of our church building.。
So what would you say?。
Then you might say, that doesn't fit.。
It doesn't match.。
In the same way, God has given us a glorious identity.。
Our lives should reflect that identity.。
Next, let's look at the second point.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Verses 2 says, "With all humility and gentleness,。
with patience, bearing with one another in love."。
Before Paul talks about unity, he first talks about characters.。
Why?。
Because the biggest problem in a church。
is usually not the structure.。
It is the people inside the church.。
A church may have a perfect system, a strong structure,。
a well-organized ministry.。
But if the people are spiritually immature,。
everything can still fall apart.。
That's why Paul starts talking about characters.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Paul gives us four types of characters.。
The first one, he mentioned humility.。
In Greek culture, humility was seen as weakness and not。
that good in that culture.。
But in scripture, humility is a character of Christ.。
Jesus is the Son of God.。
He's the true King.。
But where was he born?。
Not in a palace, in a mansion, not into a noble family,。
but into a home of a carpenter.。
He humbled himself and obeyed the Father,。
even to the point of death on a cross.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So what is biblical humility?。
It's not low self-esteem.。
It's not thinking poorly of yourself.。
True humility means this.。
You are no longer centered on yourself.。
You are centered on God.。
Many conflicts in church are rooted in pride.。
Why won't the people listen to me?。
Why won't they do the things in my way?。
Why doesn't anyone respect me?。
Pride destroys unity, and humility builds unity.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Second, gentleness.。
Gentleness is not weakness.。
Gentleness is strength under control.。
Think of a horse.。
A horse is powerful, but when trained,。
the strength is under the control of its master.。
That is gentleness.。
Jesus said, "I am gentle and lowly in heart."。
Jesus was gentlest person who ever lived.。
And yet, he was full of power.。
He calmed storms.。
He cast out demons.。
He raised the dead.。
Gentleness does not mean having no power.。
It means having power, but not abusing it.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
The third point is patience, and the fourth one。
is bearing with one another.。
There were always some people in the church。
that we think we might not like.。
But the same is true in the family life, too.。
Sometimes even our spouse, children, parents,。
sometimes we have conflict moment with them.。
However, why should we be patient?。
Because Christ has been patient with us.。
We've seen against God again and again.。
We've failed him again and again.。
Let him disappointed.。
Yet God has shown enormous patience towards us,。
and we must treat others the same way.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Paul adds an important phrase, "with all."。
Not just humility, not just gentleness,。
but with all humility.。
And this means not only when life is easy,。
but in every situation, even though in the toughest。
moment in your life, in good times, in hard times,。
when life is smooth or when life is painful.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, here is the real question.。
Can people actually produce these characters on their own?。
Can we truly be humble?。
Can we truly be gentle?。
Can we truly be patient only by our efforts?。
No.。
What comes naturally to us?。
Protecting ourselves, defending ourselves,。
exhorting ourselves, because our nature tendency。
is always self-centered.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Paul is not saying, try hard to be a better person.。
Improve yourself a little bit more.。
Be more disciplined.。
No.。
Paul is saying, you need the gospel.。
When we truly understand the gospel,。
the Holy Spirit begins shaping the life of Christ in us.。
Humility and gentleness are not something we fake.。
They are not something we force ourselves to perform.。
They are the fruit of spirit.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Only when you understand what the gospel can,。
you can become truly humble.。
Only when you understand the gospel。
can you become truly gentle.。
And only when you understand the gospel。
can you preserve the true unity.。
Apart from the gospel, there is no real humility,。
no real gentleness, and no real unity.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And even more than that, those four characters。
describe Jesus himself.。
Jesus is humble, Jesus is gentle, he is patient,。
Jesus is gracious.。
The Christian life is about reflecting Christ。
like the moon reflects the light of the sun.。
Our lives are meant to reflect Christ.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Paul emphasized unity here.。
Why is unity so important?。
Because God is the God of unity.。
God's plan is that in the fullness of time,。
all things will be united in Christ.。
And the goal of salvation is reconciliation.。
Reconciliation between God and man,。
the reconciliation among people.。
Sin always works against unity.。
Sin brings division, conflict, hostility,。
and broken relationship.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Notice Paul's word.。
He does not say create unity.。
He says maintain unity.。
Why?。
Because true unity is not something that we can create.。
It is something the Holy Spirit has already given.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Christ has always torn down the division war。
through his death on cross.。
The problem is not that church has no unity.。
The real problem is that we often。
destroy the unity God has already given us.。
How do we destroy it?。
By our pride, bitterness, judgment, conflict,。
and division.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
That is why Paul says we must be eager to maintain unity.。
What does eager mean?。
It means unity does not come easy.。
It costs something.。
We must lay down ourselves.。
We must forgive.。
We must be patient.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
The foundation of church unity is not human effort.。
The foundation is unity of triune God.。
One body, one spirit.。
This points to the Holy Spirit who makes the church one body.。
One Lord, one faith, one baptism.。
This point to Christ.。
We belong to the same Lord, one God and Father.。
This points to the Father.。
We share the same Heavenly Father.。
The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are not divided.。
They are perfectly united.。
That is why the church must be united.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
What does Satan love to see the most?。
Not church closing, not Sunday worship stopping.。
What Satan loves most is this.。
Church still gathers.。
The song are still singing.。
The sermon still preached.。
But brothers and sisters become cold to each other.。
They attack one another, judge one another,。
hurt one another.。
That destroyed the witness of the church.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
But then verse 7 says, grace was given to each one of us。
according to the measure of Christ's gift.。
What does that mean?。
Unity does not mean uniformity.。
God does not mass produce people.。
And the body is not made up of only eyes.。
Or the body is not made up of only with a lot of pair of hands.。
Every person is different.。
Each person has different gifts.。
Some are gifted in teaching.。
Some are gifted in caring for people.。
Some in serving.。
Some in leading.。
Unity does not erase differences.。
A healthy church is united in truth and diverse in gifts.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Brothers and sisters, the real question。
is not whether we attend church today.。
The real question is, do we look like Christ?。
Can your family see Christ in you?。
Can your children see Christ in you?。
Can your brothers and sisters see Christ in you?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Are you building up the church or trying to tear it down?。
Are you bringing peace or creating division?。
May God have mercy on us.。
May God renew us.。
May God help us walk in manner worthy of the calling。
we have received.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for calling us out of darkness。
into your marvelous light and from death into life.。
Thank you for giving us a new identity in Christ.。
You have given us such a glorious calling,。
and we ask you would help us live。
lives worthy of the calling.。
Lord, give us hearts of humility, gentleness,。
and patience.。
Help us to reflect the character of Christ in our daily lives.。
Teach us to love one another, bear with one another,。
and preserve the unity of the church.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
