Thank you, James, for giving us a short announcement.。
Today, we're going to continue with our series,。
and there are some questions I want you to do together.。
There will be some riddle to solve, okay?。
All right, so it's coming up, all right?。
So, at the Apostles' Creek,。
we are talking about this ancient statement of faith.。
It's been around for more than 1,500 years,。
almost 2,000 years, to give us a world map。
of what it means to follow Jesus Christ.。
We are coming to, I don't know,。
statement number one, two, three, four,。
maybe four or five.。
It talks about Jesus.。
Remember, the center of the entire Apostles' Creek。
is on Jesus Christ himself,。
what he has done and who he is.。
So, right here, we have a statement that says。
he was crucified, he died,。
and was buried, and he descended to the dead.。
That means he really died, right?。
Was crucified.。
All right, that is a technical phrase in the first century.。
Now, who is being crucified in the first century?。
Political criminals.。
They will be crucified.。
In fact, Jesus was not the only one。
being crucified in the first century.。
I think, as I prepared this message,。
I remember it was back in the 1970s.。
Yeah, '70s.。
Before you were born, right?。
Wait, I was born, okay.。
I was born.。
There in Jerusalem, they dug out a tomb,。
and in the tomb, they found some human bones.。
One of the bone pieces is。
a heel bone of a man, all right?。
Heel bone of a man.。
You can see on the left.。
There is still a Roman nail going through it.。
We guess that maybe in,。
somebody being crucified,。
that man being crucified, the victim of crucifixion,。
and he was buried, and then as they try to bury him,。
because there was a big nail going through his heel bone.。
You know where the heel bone is?。
Yeah?。
Going through it, professionally,。
going through the entire heel bone without breaking it.。
And then when they buried the guy,。
they could not take the nail out,。
probably because the nail was bent or something like that.。
So as you can see from this heel bone,。
you can reconstruct kind of what it would look like。
for a crucifix victim.。
So,。
both the feet being nailed to the vertical wood beam,。
and then。
hands and arms extended.。
Usually, the nail would go through your wrist.。
So this reconstruction does not show it.。
However, sometimes, a crucifix victim。
would be nailed to the cross by four nails,。
just like what the gospel have described.。
All right?。
The nailed hand, right?。
Both hands.。
And then, nailed feet, right?。
So this is something historical.。
We are looking at what's crucified, this face.。
Only the political criminals,。
political rebels, they were being hunt down。
by the Roman authorities, the Roman Empire police.。
And then they would crucify these people.。
Now, as mentioned, crucifixion is a political penalty。
for all those who have committed treason。
against the Roman Empire.。
Now, with this picture, we can see that, actually,。
when Jesus died on the cross,。
he let us see。
there was a political side to the kingdom of God.。
By dying on the cross, by suffering from crucifixion,。
he's actually showing us there was a different reality,。
different kingdom, different political reality.。
And we, as Christ followers, we have to see that.。
Just happened today is the happy independence day,。
well, tomorrow, right?。
The happy July 4th weekend.。
Many Americans are celebrating nationalism, right?。
Patriotism.。
There's nothing wrong with loving our country,。
but that can never trump our allegiance。
to the kingdom of God.。
Because followers of Jesus Christ,。
we are proclaiming a totally different reality.。
And Jesus, by dying on the cross,。
he proclaims a totally different world order,。
a totally different order of power,。
reconfiguring our whole life.。
When Jesus came to your life, when Jesus came to my life,。
there should be some reconfiguration of powers,。
reconfiguration of functions in our lives.。
Jesus died on the cross, he sacrificed himself,。
he laid down his own right.。
That is a different reality, isn't it?。
Right, crucifixion, Jesus died on the cross,。
it's other center, he died on the cross。
so that we can be saved.。
He did not grasp his own right in heaven,。
but he laid down his own right.。
That's why the Bible consistently emphasizes one fact,。
is that Jesus is the servant king.。
And that is the status for all church communities.。
We follow Jesus, we profess his faith,。
we believe in him, as the apostle of Crete says,。
we believe that he was crucified, he died.。
And that is the example of Jesus.。
Let me read a passage from Philippians 2.。
It says, "Your attitude, your mindset,。
"should be the same as that of Christ Jesus."。
And then he goes on, "Jesus, being in the nature of God,。
"very nature of God, did not consider equality with God。
"something to be grasped, but made himself nothing."。
Those of us who are versed in English grammar,。
you should know something called reflexive pronoun.。
You know what reflexive pronoun is?。
No?。
Those who are teachers, students,。
reflexive pronoun means something that you do to yourself.。
Right?。
Something that you do to yourself.。
That is reflexive pronoun.。
Can you find a reflexive pronoun here?。
Made himself nothing.。
Nobody forced him to do that, but he chose to do that.。
He made himself nothing.。
This is the example of Jesus.。
And we have to ask one more question.。
Why did Paul write 2-5, right, Philippians?。
There was something before 2-5, which is 2-1-4, right?。
Actually, Paul is actually teaching the Christians。
in Philippi, the small group churches,。
maybe five, 10 people a group.。
10, 15 people is called a church community。
in the city of Philippi.。
And he is trying to teach them。
what it means to live as a church.。
What it means to be the church.。
And church is a community where we lay aside。
our own interests.。
We come into the church, we gather with our,。
with the Bible study group or college Bible study group。
or high school group, or coming to worship.。
No matter where we gather,。
if we gather in the name of Christ,。
if we gather in the name of Jesus,。
first presupposition is to lay down your own rights,。
your own priority, your own interest.。
Working for the interest of others.。
That is the community of church.。
That is what Christ has called us to be.。
Now many people today, when we come to church,。
sometimes we forgot to check our attitude.。
We come here to be entertained, right?。
Have you ever noticed the worship team。
played some wrong notes?。
Probably they did, right?。
You walk out the church and would you give five star。
to the worship experience?。
Probably not, right?。
Probably not.。
But if we do that, if we do that,。
we miss the whole point.。
We are not experiencing the presence of God.。
We are not experiencing the presence of Jesus.。
We come here not as a customer.。
We come here as a community of Jesus Christ himself.。
And what did he do?。
He laid down his own rights.。
He made himself nothing.。
That is the church.。
That is what the church is all about.。
One more example.。
We can quote other passages from the Bible。
talking about the church being a different order。
from the world, totally different from our culture。
because the culture, there is a culture script out there.。
The American culture, happy July 4th,。
we celebrate individualism.。
That is the meta-narrative of our culture, of our world.。
And it's constantly brainwashing us to tell you。
that if you follow this meta-narrative,。
this big narrative, this cultural script,。
you'll be great.。
You define yourself by individualistic choices, right?。
I make my own choices.。
I want to define myself the way I want to.。
That is the meta-narrative out there.。
But when we come before Christ,。
it's a totally different ballgame, isn't it?。
We lay down our own rights.。
It's no longer individualism.。
It is other-centered community.。
We lay down our own rights.。
We lay down our own status.。
I think of some other passages from the Bible。
that also proclaims this kind of different order of power.。
Remember that there were some passages in the Bible,。
in the New Testament.。
It sounds funny to us as modern readers.。
I'll give you an example.。
One of the example is 1 Timothy 2.。
Paul there is teaching the women in the church。
not to dress up to go to church, but to dress down.。
Have you ever noticed that?。
No jewelry, Paul is saying,。
"Don't come here with nice clothing.。
"I see that you are not coming with very nice clothing.。
"That's good."。
All right?。
And why did Paul do that?。
Why did Paul do that?。
You think your clothing is nice?。
Well, anyways.。
(audience laughing)。
Well, you know, you picked that this morning?。
Cool.。
(audience laughing)。
Anyways, 1 Timothy 2.。
If you have time, go back home and read that passage.。
Paul is actually doing something very funny to us.。
He said, "Don't dress up when you come to church.。
"You dress down."。
Now the question is why?。
Because in the Roman Empire,。
the social order so often is defined by。
how you wear, right?。
Now it's funny to us because we no longer do that, right?。
We no longer emphasize so much on this, right?。
I'm a CEO of a big company.。
They can give a presentation,。
a formal presentation with jeans, right?。
I mean, we don't do that anymore, do we?。
We don't.。
I remember in the old days, in the '80s, in the '90s,。
when we go to church,。
sometimes we are required to put on suit and tie.。
Well, unspoken rule.。
I remember one time we were still in college.。
We were going with some friends to Los Angeles.。
So we were driving down from Northern California.。
I was in Sacramento at that point.。
And then we drove down to Los Angeles for vacation.。
So some of our friends, we went to Hollywood,。
we went to。
Universal Studio and all those stuff, right?。
The fun stuff.。
So on Sunday, we found a church.。
See, we have good Christians, right?。
We still find a church to go to.。
So Sunday morning, we drove to one of the churches。
in the area.。
So we walk into the church, right?。
So we were young and fun people.。
I remember one of my friends was wearing shorts.。
As a group, we walk into the church.。
And then we were stopped by a deacon.。
And the deacon stopped us,。
but not stopped me because I was wearing pants, right?。
Long pants.。
Stopped the guy wearing shorts.。
And started yelling at him。
that you don't come to the sanctuary with shorts.。
I mean, is that crazy?。
That's kind of crazy, right?。
That's kind of crazy.。
I still remember some of the churches。
back in my generation,。
they have ties。
at the door.。
And whenever they pick,。
they find a guy without wearing a tie,。
you can borrow a tie, don't worry.。
You can borrow a tie and tie it around your neck。
and you come to the holy sanctuary to worship God, right?。
Do you want to do that?。
No, right?。
I find it funny.。
I find it funny.。
Now I've grown。
after all these years.。
And I find it funny because。
the New Testament actually tells us。
to dress down.。
In the Roman order of things,。
you dress up。
to focus on your social status, right?。
That's why the wealthy woman。
would dress up when they go to church.。
And when they dress up to go to church,。
they will emphasize their own high status in the society.。
So that other poor people also come to the church,。
then there is a contrast, right?。
Now, poor is,。
poor is not trying to censor their clothing。
or what they wear.。
Poor is trying to say in the community of the church,。
we don't emphasize our social economic differences。
because the ground around the cross is level.。
At the foot of the cross, we are all sinners。
and we only justify by grace.。
And that's the spirit, right?。
That is what the church means.。
We come as a community to focus on others, not ourselves.。
Great example, right?。
If you take a look at the previous context of 2-5,。
you know, the hymn for Christ,。
how he made himself nothing,。
how he died on the cross as a slave.。
Paul was actually teaching the Christians。
how to be together, how to form a community together.。
He said, if you have any encouragement。
from being united with Christ,。
with any comfort from his love,。
any fellowship with the spirit,。
any tenderness and compassion,。
then make my joys, Paul says, complete。
by being like-minded, having the same love,。
being one in spirit and purpose.。
Do nothing out of selfish ambition.。
In humility, consider others better than yourselves.。
Each of you should look not only to your own interests,。
but also to the interests of others.。
Jesus was crucified and died as a political victim.。
That is the example of servanthood.。
We follow Jesus, we do the same.。
Now, the apostles continue with the phrase。
"under Pontius Pilate."。
You know who that guy is?。
Pontius Pilate?。
Pontius Pilate.。
Now, under the Roman occupation at the time,。
Rome will send a local governor, a Roman,。
to rule over conquered cities,。
like Palestine, the land of Israel。
at that time in the first century.。
So, the Roman governor would rule over the Jewish people,。
and of course, the Jewish people would hate the governor.。
So, there's a huge political disconnection there.。
There's a huge political tension between Pontius Pilate,。
who ruled Palestine at the time, AD 26 to 36,。
against the Roman population.。
There was story after story outside the Bible。
talking about people rebelling against the authorities,。
protesting, and all that stuff.。
And Pilate was a crafty politician.。
Remember, the Jewish authorities trying to persecute Jesus。
and crucify him and crucify him, they yell,。
and then they bring Jesus to Pilate, the governor,。
because as local authorities, the Jerusalemites,。
they could not impose a death penalty.。
So, they bring him to Pilate.。
As the Roman governor at the time,。
Pilate wanted to keep the peace, to please the people.。
That's why he had Jesus crucified.。
So, Pilate was a crafty politician.。
It's like today, right?。
You hear about who you should vote for,。
someone's going to try to win your vote, right?。
Don't get into the trap,。
because they are all politicians, right?。
They are all politicians.。
No political party can represent the kingdom of God.。
The kingdom of God is so big,。
bigger than left or right or center.。
A different reality, different order of things.。
Now, here's the riddle.。
As we talk about the Apostles' Creed,。
under Pontius Pilate, that's very interesting,。
because there's a bad guy in this Apostles' Creed, right?。
It's supposed to be something really pure, right?。
Document, talking about the Christian faith.。
Why did they put Pontius Pilate there, right?。
A bad politician there.。
Well, this is a historical note, right?。
Christianity is historic.。
Something that happened in real time and space, right?。
It's not some mythic stories.。
It's not some fictional stuff that we believe in,。
but something that actually happened。
in real time and space.。
Pontius Pilate, governor of Palestine, AD 26 to 36, right?。
If you check the Roman history,。
or the history of the eastern Mediterranean area,。
you would find this name show up。
on other different historical documents.。
Many years ago, there was a city in the land of Palestine。
called Caesarea Militima.。
It's a harbor.。
It's a huge man-made harbor.。
People were digging there, and they found a piece of stone。
being reused later time in a Roman theater.。
And on that stone, there were some inscriptions.。
Now, the riddle is, can you find the name Pilate。
on the inscriptions?。
Can you find it?。
Can you make it out?。
Where is it?。
Can you find P-I-L-A-T-U-S, or V-S?。
Can you find it?。
Where is it?。
The first line says Tiberium, right?。
Tiberius was also the Roman emperor at the time, Tiberius.。
So there's a Tiberium, some sort of temple,。
dedicated to the boss, right?。
The CEO of the entire Roman Empire, right?。
Tiberium, so this kind of a dedication inscription。
for a temple in Caesarea Militima.。
Can you find Pilate?。
Can you see that?。
Yeah, Pontus Pilate, right?。
Pontus Pilate, and the prefect of Judea, right?。
So Pilate is this historical thing,。
he's a historical figure, right?。
When they unearthed this thing,。
they finally find something in the stone。
that says Pilate was a real guy.。
Of course, Jesus was a real guy, right?。
As the Creed says, he was crucified on the third day,。
and then he rose again, ascended into heaven,。
and is now seated at the right hand of the Father.。
He will come again to judge the living and the dead.。
The empty tomb is being affirmed。
as an other historical fact.。
The tomb of Jesus is empty.。
Point blank, telling you, the tomb of Christ is empty.。
But how do you explain the empty tomb?。
I want to close today's message with a pretty long quote.。
I find this book is one of the best books。
on the reality of the empty tomb.。
This guy is an Israeli archaeologist,。
Israeli historian, Shimon Gibson.。
Now I find this book pretty interesting。
because he's, you know, Gibson is not,。
he's not a Christian, obviously.。
He's a Israeli Jew.。
He's a historian, and he has written this pretty good book,。
'cause this book begins with some sort of presuppositions.。
The presupposition is that the four gospel,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
are quite reliable documents.。
So he started to investigate what is being told。
by the four gospels.。
Are they really eyewitnesses?。
Are they really historical accounts, reliable?。
We can trace back to the time of Jesus,。
and then he's tried to unearth other stuff。
and to match the evidence.。
Toward the end, he says,。
"There were different strange theories。
"having been put forward to explain away the empty tomb."。
But Gibson said, "They are all based on nonsense.。
"Archaeology and history cannot prove or disprove。
"the possibility that Jesus' body was smuggled out。
"by persons unknown, but this is a matter of speculation."。
Now here's the important point.。
The reality is there is no historical explanation。
for the empty tomb.。
Other than, now if you try to come up with different theories。
different ways to explain away the empty tomb,。
Gibson is saying, there's no way you can do that.。
Because there's no historical scientific explanation。
for the empty tomb.。
Unless you adopt the biblical reason.。
The biblical reason.。
The theological explanation.。
Which says, the resurrection.。
And he says, "I leave it up to the reader。
"to make up your mind."。
I find this very interesting conclusion, right?。
You can do historical inquiry。
of why the tomb is empty.。
Somebody stole the body,。
or maybe the disciple went to a wrong tomb,。
or something like that, right?。
You can explain away the empty tomb,。
but ultimately, there's no historical scientific ways。
to explain why the tomb was empty.。
There's no way.。
Because that goes beyond historical inquiry.。
That goes beyond all scientific knowledge can tell you.。
At the end of the day, you can only conclude。
that the tomb is actually empty.。
But why?。
When you talk about the reason,。
there's only one reason given by the Bible.。
Whether you accept it or not.。
It's a theological reason.。
That God raised Jesus from the dead, right?。
God raised Jesus from the dead.。
It's a miracle.。
It's something only God can do.。
But to accept that reason,。
you cannot stay in your own order of things.。
You cannot maintain your own worldview, so to speak.。
All right, you have to change your own worldview radically。
in order to accept that biblical theological reason。
that God did something to the body of Jesus,。
raised him from the dead.。
And that worldview transformation。
is to say that, okay, I don't maintain my own。
closed universe, closed system kind of worldview.。
Reality is not just here, now, and something I can touch.。
Right, I can sense.。
It's not just that.。
There's a reality higher than the order of things。
that I can see.。
And that is a supernatural metaphysical reality.。
I think Gibson, I have to agree with Simone Gibson.。
You have to make up your mind。
whether you accept the theological reason or not.。
Now, I want to close today's message by quoting this verse.。
Galatians chapter two, verse 20.。
Paul says, "I have been crucified, the old self."。
Paul is talking about his old self.。
"I have been crucified with Christ,。
"and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me."。
The new self.。
When you accept Jesus, there should be。
a fundamental change in our lives.。
Our attitude, our worldview,。
our perspective on order of things.。
Christ lives in me.。
The life I live, the new life I live in the body,。
I live by faith in the Son of God.。
And He loved me and gave Himself for me.。
This is no longer something out there,。
some objective fact or something that happened。
in the world, in time and space.。
Yes, that's true, historical fact,。
and Pontius Pilate, Jesus, the real guy,。
and all that stuff, empty tomb.。
It becomes a subjective experience.。
It becomes your own personal experience.。
Christianity, biblical faith, it's all about relationship.。
It is your relationship with Christ.。
But please understand, this sort of relationship。
is not just, "Oh, you know, patting my back,。
"and you'll be okay."。
It's a radical transformation, how we see the world,。
and how we see ourselves.。
Well, I want to recite the Apostles' Creed together,。
and then we'll pray together.。
That's all we recite together.。
You all stand.。
Apostles' Creed.。
Let's recite together.。
I believe in God, the God Almighty,。
creator of heaven and earth.。
I believe in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord.。
He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit,。
and born of the Virgin Mary.。
He suffered under Pontius Pilate,。
was crucified, died, and was buried.。
He descended to the dead.。
On the third day, He rose again.。
He ascended into heaven,。
and is now seated at the right hand of the Father.。
He will come again to judge the living and the dead.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the holy universal church,。
the communion of saints, the covenants of sin.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, I give you thanks for breaking into our reality,。
breaking into our world,。
to tell us that you are real,。
to tell us that you have done something mighty,。
something that is beyond our explanation。
in real time and real space.。
In history, you have come,。
and you die on the cross for our sins,。
and you rose from the dead。
to give us new hope and eternal life.。
Father, this new reality, may you help us to be reminded。
and to stand on it,。
to base our whole life on this foundation,。
knowing that your kingdom is eternal,。
and your kingdom will come.。
And we pray that your kingdom will come into our lives,。
change us gradually,。
radically transform us into the image of your Son.。
And thank you for the relationship that we have。
at the foot of the cross.。
Thank you for saving us and changing our identity.。
And we are your children.。
We are your sons and daughters.。
And may you use us, may you continue to change us。
into your Son's image.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Well, you're dismissed.。
Thank you very much, and I will see you next Sunday,。
and worship God together.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
