All right guys。
Happy New Year and why don't you say to your neighbor just a little bit, you know one phrase. Happy New Year. Happy。
2026。
Okay, so today's the last Sunday of。
2025 and as you can。
Feel that time is flying。
so fast and we're gonna welcome a new year 2026 and。
every。
Moment of the end of the year turning to a new year。
We going to do something new right we think about something new。
Today's our young woman in the whole you got to read。
She can't end up to the fish or to make a new year the you know, what am I?。
Don't go to woman. She didn't end you see Cindy。
and then let me go back to。
There's something wrong with the PowerPoint and there we go. Okay, there we go。
It's how many of you have gym membership?。
How many of you know?。
Okay, I see two people and then how many you think about new year you're gonna go on diet。
Okay。
Quick thought, you know, maybe oh I need to go on diet or something。
I mean maybe more healthy and we think about new plans and new goals and。
You know how the story goes and by March。
2026 we're gonna give up right and then the diet is broken the planners sitting on the shelf and the problem is sometimes。
we。
Something more of our hearts and our hearts need to change。
Jason found me and also study。
She enjoyed our gym vacay. Why it's until Buchang go to Apple. Yes. I told you woman that in song。
We're not I think that you have been said the issue. Yes, I'm seeing John's here. That was Cindy. It's about who's the kid you?。
You thought of Sandra fan Jason Kaji woman to不用了也是计划也失败了。
Ji-hwa-bae-ye-bae fan. So Jia-sang when he was a woman who's not a woman each other. So the she may have done that I'd beenso。
Like to turn to a psalm in the Bible, which is the longest。
Psalm in the Bible Psalm 119 and this song is not inviting to all of us to be。
to to do some self improvement the psalm is inviting us for a。
Transformation and it's not trying to encourage us to try harder。
Harder and harder it actually invites us to go deeper to listen。
To kind of have a spiritual diary that we can be shaped and we shaped by the voice of God。
So that's what Psalm 19 is all about. So as we welcome。
2026 God is not calling us to for another, you know new。
You know trying hard habit, but he's calling us to have our life anchor in his word。
She can't even I used to kill him. Who's he? Oh, she wants you want me to work? He's on our ship. We don't want me shooting guns in。
He's not trying to encourage us to try harder and harder it actually invites us to go deeper to listen。
To kind of have a spiritual diary that we can be shaped and we shaped by the voice of God。
2026 God is not calling us to for another, you know new。
She's not trying to encourage us to try harder and harder it actually invites us to have our life anchor in his word。
And you have to understand Psalm 19 is the longest chapter in the Bible and there was total of。
176 verses in this psalm。
If I call you to memorize this, you know, there's no way right? There's no way but you know。
It's the longest chapter, but it's not accidental as you can see。
Even though not all of us know Hebrew。
You've stopped from the right. No from reading from the right to left. That's Hebrew。
You see 119. Do you see that 119 in the picture?。
119 on the right or already right and you see verse one two, three, four five easier。
You see that right?。
Okay, I know you're smart. Okay, and then the first letter you can see is kind of like a cross and that is olive。
That's the first alphabet of the 22 alphabets of biblical Hebrew and then you go to the next。
Picture on the left you see six seven and eight, right?。
You see that don't you?。
Right. It's also the same letter, right?。
so the first eight verses start with the same letter olive and then you see nine to。
Two sixteen don't you right and you see another letter starting the next section and。
Every line of the next eight lines from nine from verses nine to sixteen start with bake。
Which is the second?。
alphabet of the psalm so there's a 22 letters in biblical alphabets and。
each letter。
Has eight verses in Psalm 119 and each verse is a group and begins with the same letter。
So as I show you one to eight is olive and then all the way。
To the last section of this psalm this long psalm you go to the last alphabet, which is a 22nd letter, which is tough。
So the 119th psalm is the longest psalm in the Bible and it has 176 verses。
So we can't recite it but it's not a coincidence that it's a psalm of the Hebrew alphabet。
There are 22 Hebrew alphabets and each letter corresponds to eight verses and each starts with the same letter。
For example, the first to the eighth verses start with olive。
The ninth to the sixteenth verses start with bake and the last letter starts with tongue。
You know you you you。
see what I。
Would oh, that's what I'm doing. Okay。
Bay and I'll try host of all right. Yeah, I thought you didn't you don't know. Okay. Yeah。
Well, that means the psalm is beautifully craft。
we call it a cross the psalm and the poet is trying to work really really hard and。
In a way that will show you that the Word of God is not。
Casual it is intentional and it requires effort and you know beauty and artistic。
Artistry to preserve it and the form of the psalm itself is a piece of masterpiece。
It's an it's an art form. So it's not randomly put together. It's not occasionally put together, but faithfully。
Beautifully put together. It's like English from A to Z。
(translation)。
Even though you don't know biblical Hebrew before but now, you know, the first letter is called what?。
The first letter of Hebrew alphabet olive. Yeah, olive and then the second one。
Bay, bay. Yeah, exactly. That's why we got alphabet, right? It goes。
Back to many many years ago the development of alphabetical language。
Then Hebrew is one of the first ones and anyways。
so this psalm is a beautifully put together and it reminds us the first point is that。
Let the Word of God lead you into deeper prayer。
and。
the psalm。
Begins with open my eyes that I may see you so。
verses。
33 it says oh, I'm sorry. I skipped。
Open my eyes that I may behold the wonderful things of the law。
Right psalm 119 is a beautiful law beautiful psalm together and it's not a prayer for a beginner。
it's a prayer for someone who is reading scripture, you know soaking in the Word of God and。
and。
And want to really really really go into scripture。
(translation)。
(translation)。
and verses 33 and 34 as you can see on the screen teach me he prays。
Oh Lord teach me to follow your decrees and I will keep them to the end and give me。
Understanding I will keep your law and obey it with all my heart。
So every time you can sense that the poet。
Opens the Bible。
Turn to the pages of the scripture and he asked God to speak first and he is there to listen and the first response。
God's Word produces is not just give us knowledge. It's give us dependency. We want to depend on God and pray to him。
(translation)。
(translation)。
As we turn to the Word of God as we listen to the Word of God。
What we're doing right now our posture has always been to obey and to listen you can think of a young child。
You know, we've got some young children here。
And I still remember when my boy was so young so young so small and he was scared at night。
and the room and the house was dark and the shadows to him was like monsters and。
He was in fear and sometimes in the middle of the night。
he will come over and。
Down the hallway left his room and come to my room and then he was scared and I talked to him。
I spoke to him come here. You're safe. You know, daddy is here and。
You know, he would not。
He would just listen to my voice and he would not do some analysis some。
Intellectual exercise to analyze my words. He hears my words and love my words and he will run to me。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
This is what God wants us to do when we hear his Word. It's not just about information but an invitation。
It's a voice of invitation。
so I want to encourage you this the end of this this year to do something in new year is to。
read the Bible and to read the Word of God and。
It's not so much of you know doing homework and I need to finish the assignment。
But you know you need to have the right posture before God and say to God when we read the Word of God。
Father dear Heavenly Father speak to me and I am listening。
(translation)。
And the second point here is to let the Word of God will shape your heart。
So。
The second point here is that you know, we need to let the Word of God to change us。
help。
to to to transform our heart。
verses 11 and 72。
It says I have hidden or store up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you。
and 72 the law the law of God from your mouth is more precious to me than thousands of。
pieces of silver and gold。
(translation)。
So, you know the posture here is to store up, you know to to hide it。
Inside the heart and the Hebrew word here implies something very very precious like gold or in your investment。
You put it in your heart. So the psalm is not just poetry is to change our。
Priority let the priority be first the will of God and you can imagine。
again a child。
Growing up in a loving home, right and the father constantly tells him, you know。
You are love and you know kissing him and you know。
Care for him and years later the child goes up and goes to college for example。
and even though he's away from home and no one is checking on him, but。
he has。
stored the word of the father the voice of father inside of him and he knows he's。
truly beloved and。
Those words from the father will guide his decisions as his choices。
(translation)。
You know this kind of habit will transform us, you know, I do daily devotion as well。
So you should right you should be doing daily devotion and it won't take a long time。
You know, I want to tell you my habit every single day is that I subscribe to。
devotional channel and I watch two one minute video and。
It's it talks about a verse in the Bible and explain to me。
You know。
What is what the context is and what the meanings are and that's all it takes and then you try to store that。
Information that verse in your heart the rest of the day and the Word of God will gradually transform you and that's what scripture。
healing in our heart will do。
2026 a new year as we welcome it. Please do not let the Word of God stay in your Bible app。
Okay。
You have Bible app, right?。
Don't let it just collect us in your phone。
Use it and let the Word of God guide our conscience and our decision and our reactions。
(translation)。
And then the third point here is to let the Word of God guide your daily steps。
I have chosen verses first 105。
It says your Word God is a lamb。
Unto my feet and is the light to my path and you notice the the metaphor here。
It is not a spotlight. You know, the Word of God is not like a spotlight. It is a lamb。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
(translation)。
So imagine, you know waking up at the middle of the night。
Maybe you go to I don't know that's what I do. I get old I go to pee。
All right in the middle and you know, the room is dark and the house is dark and you don't turn on every light。
But you know you had kind of have your lamb or use your phone。
As a lamb and it doesn't show you the entire house。
You know, the lamb does not have the power to show you everything but it's show you just enough to take the next step safely。
Imagine we wake up in the middle of the night。
Go to the bathroom or drink water and it's pitch black in the house。
We don't turn on all the lights in the house but only the flashlight of the phone。
It can't light up the whole house but it can make us safe to go to the next step。
So this should be how the Word of God works in my in our lives。
The Word of God does not reveal everything about your future about your life or your situation。
But the Word of God will protect you every step of the way just enough for you to take the next step safely。
You know when I prepare this simple sermon I remember。
many many years ago probably。
Actually 30 years ago when I first commit myself to to church ministry and I had。
30 years ago. I had no idea what my future would look like. I had absolutely no idea, you know。
You know, I did not know where I would go and I did not know where I will serve and what are the challenges。
I would face and what kind of sacrifice it would require me to go forward。
So here I am, you know, I'm still you know, you know rocking。
Still working hard and you know, you know God never needed。
To show me everything right? I don't I don't I don't ask God to show me every single thing and。
Everything about my future. I never asked God to do that and God would not do that。
But through his Word he gave me, you know enough guidance to take one step at a time one step at a time。
so。
At the end of the year I look back。
you know, I find that God has been faithful and。
He had been guiding me all along。
So you can tell what I'm done. I'm doing it. I'm not that little either工作。
So you shouldn't from bush you have a you can't go to women。
Did I have a heart I eat booty Buddha daddy more maybe you know we talk on what's happening?。
You know, I can't eat you say in dog and as we welcome the new year 2026。
You know don't just you know come before God and want to try harder。
You know don't just promise to to to be committed. You know, you have to think about this。
You know one song a day one passage a day of one verse a day。
One gospel a day and that is enough, you know read as you pray and pray as you read。
Let the Word of God, you know form your year and guide the the new year for you。
So you are you know, you know, you know, I'm just a show. She's a kind young show. We all wait. You can you call you make?。
Can you can she can make any John for you? So being to be in dog? Oh, yeah, I said the horse without me again。
So as we pray together。
Remember the Word of God will lead us what lead us into prayer and we shape our heart and guide our every single step。
That's that's that's cause it boy。
So you are you know, man, you see I thought you know。
Dear Lord as we step into。
2026 we confess that our hearts are easily distracted。
We trace many different things in the world, but we all often neglect your word。
Today, we do not want to make you know empty promises want to come before you to make a little commitment。
Store your word into our hearts。
Shape our thoughts and our desires and our choices。
Do I don't want to talk to our new year? We're trying to get a single you can see。
Changchun who really the Hawaii今天我们不想在许下空洞的承诺而是要做出圣洁的伪身。
求你将你的话写在我们的心理塑造我们的思想可望于每天的选择。
Open our eyes to see the wonders the beauty of your work as psalm 119 shows us。
Teach us your law according to。
Your wisdom and give us understanding may your word become more precious more precious to us than gold and silver。
And truly be a lamb。
to our feet。
like to our path。
So you don't just see him the Svartian with woman can't yet so I'm a kind of you are you don't achieve now。
Tell the d33 jiao dao women you the beauty told us a p.m. 34 gets a woman who sing when you the heart。
So I'm a shin chong be king in gongbao way。
Who's a candy? She's our Jaisalmer being真实成为我们脚前的灯路上的光。
rule ship in the 105 jaisalmer go。
Father make this year this new year different not because our circumstances would change。
But because our hearts have changed and we offer the new year。
2026 to you as an act of worship。
Can't fool to nirvana niancheng way. We young lady. Yeah, who's a human one?。
Jing I've been or she even when the sing I've been alone woman, but I don't know you niancheng any don't look in by。
In Jesus name we pray phone to yes, or the mean dog. Oh, hey man。
Like I bless all of you and remember to read the work out. All right with the world about even one verse a day. All right。
Like a bus you can do something。
Napa say he can eat yet。
Thank you.。
(upbeat music)。
