- It's so good to see you all on Marathon Sunday.。
Yeah, and you got here okay?。
Traffic was okay, right?。
Yeah, all right.。
You know why people wants to run marathon in Chicago?。
Know why?。
Why Chicago is one of the favorite cities。
in United States or even the world for marathon runners.。
You know why?。
Well, I was talking to someone who is running today.。
He should be still running now。
and as part of our UV family.。
So he got the lottery to be able to join。
the Chicago Marathon and this is very interesting, right?。
It's not because you wanna run。
and then you can join the Chicago Marathon.。
You gotta be in the lottery.。
When you are picked, then you can run, right?。
You know about that?。
You don't know, you don't run, right?。
Yeah, Chicago is actually one of the favorite cities。
for marathon runners and I was talking to this brother。
who is still running today at this moment。
and he told me last year he was running in Atlanta.。
Yeah, and he didn't have a good experience。
because in the 26 miles of running,。
there were so many sections of the journey。
was there was nothing there.。
He was like, he told me he was like running in empty space.。
Right, and no one is cheering him on, right?。
In Chicago is different.。
Whether the people on the street are faking it or not,。
right, they're cheering you on, right?。
And there's so many things to see, right?。
You see the high rise and all that.。
So Chicago is a very, very interesting place。
and especially for marathon runner.。
And it got me thinking, actually this is our life journey。
in light of God's providence。
because God and his people are cheering us on.。
Once we know what providence of God really means,。
we are being cheer on and we are encouraged。
every step of the way because we are not running。
in the empty space, right?。
We're not running in the wilderness all the time。
because God is always there on the sign line。
and trying to cheer us on, right?。
This is what providence of God really means.。
So this is the second talk of God's providence。
reading Joseph's story.。
A pop quiz for you.。
What does the word providence mean?。
What does it mean?。
Can you talk to your neighbors?。
What does it mean basically?。
Providence, this word, providence.。
What does it mean?。
Talk to your neighbor.。
Basically, what does it mean, providence?。
- Provision.。
(audience laughing)。
- Okay, so here you go.。
Providence means pro, vision, right?。
The word, that's how we got the English word vision,。
meaning that God sees everything in your life,。
whatever comes to pass in your life。
from the greatest to the least。
is under the love and care of our God.。
So the Bible is very clear about the providence of God。
in your life and in my life.。
In God's sight, there was no accident.。
In God's sight, there was only incidents.。
Got it?。
All these incidents that happened to you。
and you experienced, the people that you have met, right?。
The encounters that you experienced,。
it's all in God's sight, in the presence of God,。
because he's timeless, right?。
God is outside time, it's beyond time and space.。
And for him, God looking at you,。
is that there was no accident, but incident,。
an incident under his love and care.。
And that's why this doctrine is so important.。
And the way the Bible presents and teaches this doctrine。
is through storytelling, right?。
The story in the Bible, how God act in history,。
how God act in the life of his people,。
is the same that God is doing today.。
God is also active in your life,。
but teaching you through the means of storytelling.。
So the story of Joseph is one of those。
complicated story to teach us this precious truth.。
So today is number two,。
talking about the divine providence.。
So we're coming to chapter 39.。
Okay, let me read this scripture.。
This is again, a story.。
Let's see what we get from this,。
as we explore together what divine providence。
really means in your life, in my life.。
39 verse one, "When Joseph was taken to Egypt。
"by the Ishmaelite traders,。
"he was purchased by Potiphar, an Egyptian officer.。
"Potiphar was captain of the God for Pharaoh,。
"the king of Egypt.。
"The Lord was with Joseph,。
"so he succeeded in everything he did。
"as he served in the home of his Egyptian master.。
"Potiphar noticed this and realized。
"that the Lord was with Joseph,。
"giving him success in everything he did."。
Verse four, "This pleased Potiphar,。
"so he soon made Joseph his personal attendant,。
"his assistant.。
"He put him in charge of his entire household。
"and everything he owned.。
"From the day Joseph was put in charge。
"of his master's household and property,。
"the Lord began to bless Potiphar's household。
"for Joseph's sake.。
"All his household affairs ran smoothly,。
"and his crops and livestock flourished.。
"So Potiphar gave Joseph complete administrative。
"responsibility over everything he owned.。
"With Joseph there, he didn't worry about a thing。
"except what kind of food to eat."。
That's interesting.。
Continue with 6b,。
"So Joseph was a very handsome and well-built young man,。
"and Potiphar's wife soon began to look at him lustfully.。
"Come and sleep with me, she demanded.。
"But Joseph refused.。
"'Look,' he told her, 'my master trusts me。
"'with everything in his entire household.。
"'No one here has more authority than I do.。
"'He has held back nothing from me except you,。
"'because you are his wife.。
"'How could I do such a wicked thing?。
"'It would be a great sin against God.'"。
Verse 10.。
Let's see.。
"She kept putting pressure on Joseph day after day,。
"but he refused to sleep with her.。
"He kept out of her way as much as possible."。
Verses 11 and following.。
"One day, however, no one else was around。
"when he went in to do his work.。
"She came and grabbed him by the cloak,。
"demanding, 'Come on, sleep with me.'。
"Joseph torn himself away,。
"and he left his cloak in her hand。
"as he went from the house.。
"When she saw that she was holding his cloak。
"and he had fled, she called out to her servants.。
"'Since all the men came running, look,' she said,。
"'my husband has brought this Hebrew slave here。
"'to make fools of all of us.。
"'He came into my room to rape me, but I screamed.。
"'Then he heard me scream.。
"'He went outside and got away,。
"'but he left his cloak behind with me.'"。
16.。
"She kept the cloak with her until her husband came home.。
"Then she told him her story,。
"'That Hebrew slave you have brought into our house,。
"'try to come in and fool around with me,' she said.。
"But when I screamed, he went outside。
"and left his cloak with me.。
"Paul was furious when he heard his wife's story。
"about how Joseph had treated her."。
Verse 20.。
"So he took Joseph and threw him into the presence。
"where the king's prisoners were held,。
"and there he remained.。
"But the Lord was with Joseph in the prison。
"and showed him faithful love.。
"And the Lord made Joseph a favorite。
"with the present warden.。
"Before long, the warden put Joseph in charge。
"of all of the other prisoners。
"and over everything that happened in the prison.。
"The warden had no more worries。
"because Joseph took care of everything.。
"The Lord was with him and caused everything Joseph did。
"to succeed."。
That's an interesting story, right?。
And a familiar story indeed.。
And we know that Joseph started out in chapter 37。
as a favorite son of Jacob of Israel.。
And he was unfortunately sold to Egypt.。
But down in Egypt, Joseph was doing well。
because God was with him.。
And he was in the house of Paul the first,。
one of the captain or one of the officials。
of the house of Pharaoh.。
And then here's a story goes,。
and the wife of Paul the first tries to seduce Joseph,。
because again, I think who can resist Joseph, right?。
He was a well-built young man, right?。
He goes to the gym and is very young。
and good looking young guy.。
And this wife of Paul the first trying to,。
you know, get him to go to bed with her.。
And, but Joseph maintained his integrity。
and he was committed not to sin against God.。
And he fled from temptation.。
Now this is a self-contained story.。
It means when you, you know, you cut the story out,。
you know, chapter 39, pretty much is self-contained, right?。
You can put the story in a separate book.。
A children's Bible, right?。
Or a children's story book, right?。
You just tell the story about this young man,。
lonely, away from his parents, his family,。
in a foreign place and fighting against sexual temptations.。
And notice the details there.。
You find that the wife of Paul the first。
tried to seduce him day after day after day, right?。
Who can resist that?。
But Joseph did.。
He was worth a noble character and a man of virtue,。
a man of moral example.。
And that's why this story is featured。
in almost every children's Bibles, right?。
Every single children's Bible has this story。
and as a self-contained story.。
But you think about it,。
the story is, it doesn't seem to be。
just a simple, you know, moral story.。
There were a lot of stories in the Bible.。
If we take it artificially,。
or just, you know, read the text,。
it seems like it's a moral story, right?。
Teaching a good example, right?。
Joseph is one of them.。
But if you dig deeper,。
it doesn't seem like it's just a story of good man,。
good young man resisting temptation,。
although that is true.。
But, you know, remember how the story turns out.。
The result of Joseph's integrity was really bad luck, right?。
He was being imprisoned and accused, right?。
Kind of a fake me too moment, right, for Joseph.。
And he end up in prison, right?。
And that is not a good turnout, right?。
But some of you are parents with young children.。
I cannot imagine the bedtime story would go like this, right?。
You tell a story to your kid, you know,。
your son and your daughter when they were younger.。
See, once upon a time, there was a boy,。
very nice looking, he was a good boy,。
and maintain his integrity, and he end up in prison.。
Good night, and good night, kids.。
You wouldn't do that, right?。
This is how the story functions, right?。
But we want to cut that out,。
and we put it in the self-contained book,。
and tell the story.。
So we have to dig deeper, and what does it mean, right?。
How the Bible puts it together。
so that we get what it really means.。
Now, a lot of stories in the Bible。
are not just stories of good examples,。
so that we can copy and follow.。
A lot of the stories in the Bible are actually God's story.。
What is God doing in this man's life?。
And that story tells of his character, God's own character,。
who God really is.。
So here, I have two main points.。
One, as we dig deeper into the story,。
we find that the divine providence triumphs over even evil.。
And second point is providence moves in silence.。
First point, perhaps you need to understand this story。
is to understand the overall flow of the chapter.。
Now, this chapter has three paragraphs.。
Outline the passage, you find there were three paragraphs,。
1 to 6a, 6b to 19, and 20 to 23.。
It's funny, interesting, in the first part of the story,。
1 to 6a, Joseph was in poverty's house,。
but there's a phrase that is repeated.。
The Lord was with Joseph, Yahweh was with him,。
and giving him success.。
And then the second part of the story, 6b to 19,。
you find that this phrase is absent.。
There's no obvious presence of God,。
even when Joseph was in trouble, right?。
In fact, the cloak, the clothe that Joseph was wearing。
that Joseph is wearing, remember the story of Joseph。
has to do with what he wears all the time, right?。
Chapter 37, he got the many colored cloth。
from his loving father, right?。
And then chapter 39 right here,。
his clothes is in the hand of Paul's wife.。
Now the word hand can mean power and authority.。
So in the middle part of the story,。
Joseph, unfortunately, is under P.W.'s hands,。
Paul's wife, okay?。
Paul's wife, P.W.。
Seizes the clothe and kept it under her guard。
to accuse him, right?。
She screamed and he went outside。
and leaving the clothe with P.W.。
And in this story, Joseph is under the hand。
and the power of P.W.。
Where's God?。
God is not there.。
At least it's not explicitly mentioned.。
And then you go to the third part, 20 to 23.。
Joseph is in the prison, the royal prison,。
but then the phrase shows up again.。
The Lord was with Joseph, giving him success.。
Now, when we talk about divine providence,。
we have to deal with the inevitable tension。
between God's sovereignty, God's control in your life,。
and also human suffering.。
Now, a lot of people do not believe in the Bible。
or resist the idea of the existence of God。
because they have seen so much suffering in the world.。
There are so many troubles in the world, right?。
You read the recent news,。
what happened in Israel, Gaza.。
Hundreds of people died, innocent people.。
And to a lot of people, this is enough。
for them to say, "God, if you exist,。
"why all the troubles, right?。
"Why all the suffering?"。
Now, this story tells us, or trying to。
sort out the tension between God's sovereignty。
and human suffering.。
Now, the Bible never said,。
the Bible never says that God caused PW to tempt Joseph.。
The Bible is clear on this.。
Although the Bible, there's no anti-philosophical answer。
to the problem of evil.。
In fact, there's none, right?。
If you read all the works of all the great philosophers。
who are trying to figure out or sort out。
the sovereignty of God and human suffering,。
there's no airtight philosophical rational answer。
to explain the two.。
Never.。
Even, you get that, even you have a rational understanding。
or comprehensive answer to why suffering happened to me,。
why suffering happened to other people,。
even you get the answer, the Bible says, "So what?"。
Because you are still experiencing suffering, right?。
You still see suffering.。
In fact, we don't need one.。
The Bible is clear.。
The Bible uses stories to try to explain that.。
And as we all know, human language has its limit.。
And when you hit that limit, storytelling comes.。
Because story has the power to explain,。
more so than statements that we make.。
So the language is important.。
The Bible is clear that God does not cause suffering。
to happen.。
Perhaps there's no better term.。
We should say God allows or God tolerates evil。
or suffering to come to pass.。
At best, we must say God permits or allows。
some bad things happen to us.。
Joseph begins with a position of honor,。
being loved by his loving father.。
And now he come to the bottom of the valley.。
That's a story trying to tell us.。
But he is here in the position of shame at the end of chapter。
or in the middle part of the chapter,。
is to prepare him for the next thing to happen.。
God's providence is still there when he faces difficulties,。
temptations, and challenges.。
Indeed, the power of God triumphs over all of this evil。
things in his life.。
So that's how the story goes, showing you who God is.。
He can triumph over all the troubles.。
And that is true for Joseph.。
That is true for you and true for me.。
For a little while, Joseph suffered.。
He did, he suffered.。
But at the end of the episode, God raised him up again.。
That is what God is doing in the life of Joseph.。
And that should be also the case for all of you,。
for all of us.。
So God triumphs over evil and suffering.。
But you take deeper into the story,。
the providence of God actually moves in silence.。
You have to pay attention, look closely to this chapter.。
And if you divide this chapter as I did。
into three different paragraphs,。
you can also subtitle each part as so.。
The first part, Joseph in providence's house,。
God is there, clearly, explicitly stated.。
6B to 19, in the hand of P.W.,。
God seems to be silent.。
God seems to be absent.。
20 to 23, again, God is there.。
You see, in this chapter of Joseph's life,。
God is there in the beginning, in Egypt.。
And sandwiched between it is God seems to be silent。
in times of difficulties.。
Is God really absent?。
That's the question the chapter's trying to pose to us。
as readers.。
Is Joseph merely under the mercy of P.W.?。
Is he really?。
Or is not?。
As I try to understand this providence,。
this teaching of providence,。
trying to understand what God is doing。
in this episode of Joseph's life,。
I must admit at first, I don't quite understand.。
But then I noticed some of the details。
that I didn't see before.。
Okay, this is what I noticed.。
I noticed a subtle changes,。
subtle progression of where Joseph is.。
He started off in poverty's house in Egypt.。
Then bad things happened to him.。
And then the location changes to the prison.。
That is so bad, right?。
However, the word king shows up the first time。
in Joseph's story.。
He end up in the prison of the royal house, yes, indeed.。
However, it is the prison of the kings, the pharaoh.。
Now, why is this location change significant?。
As we all know, the whole story of Joseph,。
we know Joseph is moving closer and closer and closer,。
one step at a time to the royal court of the king of Egypt.。
And God is preparing him,。
even in the midst of misfortunes happen along the way.。
God allows or tolerates something bad happened to Joseph,。
but he is slowly, gradually moving Joseph closer。
and closer to the king of Egypt, to pharaoh.。
At the end, as we know,。
Joseph was being placed there in the courthouse of pharaoh。
in order to save the whole family of Israel。
and indeed plus many other people who suffer from famine.。
So God has a bigger plan, right?。
God can use evil and indeed triumphs over evil。
to accomplish his will.。
God seems to be absent,。
but that does not mean God is not working behind the scene.。
Right?。
As you observe your life,。
as you think about the journey of your life,。
all the twists and turns,。
if you think about it in light of God's presence,。
what a huge difference the people that you have met,。
the accidents that happen in our lives,。
but in God's sight, there's no accident.。
It's just incident.。
What is God doing in your life?。
Why is God silent or seemingly silent, seemingly absent,。
especially in times of difficulty, times of uncertainty?。
In the past few months, I've been struggling with。
just so much struggle in the presence of God.。
I prayed for something and it didn't happen.。
And there was a spiritual battle inside of me.。
God, what are you doing?。
What the heck are you doing, God?。
Right?。
And there was so many sleepless night。
and I struggled with my prayers, my wish, my desire,。
not happening according to my will.。
And then it turned out, praise God, right?。
It did happen.。
And of course, according to God's good will.。
Philip Yancy, ring any bell?。
Christian thinker, Christian writer.。
He has written many, many books about sufferings,。
many, many books about divine providence.。
And in one of his stories,。
Yancy talks about his struggle with divine silence,。
that God doesn't seem to be working.。
God doesn't seem to be moving.。
When he pray so hard, diligently every single day,。
he feels like God is ignoring his prayers,。
denying his request.。
And one of those moments, he wanted to give up, right?。
And then he thought of something in the Bible.。
And that something in the Bible, he thought of,。
was Jesus in Gethsemane.。
Remember the last night of the life of Jesus,。
he was in the garden, he was praying so hard.。
He prayed that the Father would take away。
the cup of suffering, death on the cross,。
soon to happen from him.。
He was praying so hard in the garden in Gethsemane,。
that prayed that God would remove that cup.。
And God denied his prayer.。
It is so-called the first prayer in Jesus' life,。
or the only prayer in Jesus' life,。
that God did not answer the way his son prayed.。
His son prayed, finally,。
"Not according to my will, but your will."。
So Yancy wrote this paragraph.。
He said, "How many times have I prayed for one thing,。
"only to receive another?。
"God alone is qualified to answer prayer.。
"And there's some time we have to let go and trust God.。
"Who can transmute our self-focused request。
"into an unimaginably larger plan?。
"When Jesus prayed to the one who could save him from death,。
"Jesus did not get that salvation.。
"Indeed, Jesus got the salvation of the whole world."。
That is amazing.。
God did not answer his son's prayer the way he wanted.。
But God has a bigger, bigger, larger plan.。
Yet Jesus was not saved from death.。
But in Jesus' death, he saved many others in the world.。
That is the divine providence of God.。
Look at our lives, right?。
There are many requests, there are many prayers。
maybe delayed, or even God said explicitly, "No."。
But we have to remember, who got the bigger plan in mind?。
Not us, right?。
We can only see a few steps ahead of us,。
but God sees everything.。
Let me end with the Confession of Faith of Westminster.。
Again, this document, a theological document,。
written in 1646, 17th century.。
But it has been one of the best treatment。
of all the doctrines in summarizing。
all the important teachings of the Bible.。
In chapter three, article three, five, article three,。
it says, "God uses ordinary means。
"to work out his providence day by day.。
"But as God pleases, God may work without,。
"beyond, or contrary to those human means."。
God can do that.。
God can work beyond those means that you can think of.。
God can even work contrary to all those means,。
to all those instruments that you can think of.。
In fact, if you think about it, that is the gospel.。
That is the good news we found in the Bible.。
The providence of God transcends human suffering,。
the suffering of Jesus on the cross.。
Human evil, God can triumph over it.。
When Jesus died on the cross, it was the moment,。
the cosmic moment of injustice.。
But God transcends the means,。
perhaps the most devilish means, the crucifixion.。
His son died unjustly on the cross.。
But God triumphs over all and accomplishes his will,。
his holy purpose for saving us sinners from sin, from death.。
There are moments in our lives, God may be silent.。
He may be quiet, but God is not absent.。
There are moments in our lives,。
we may experience God as if he's a passive God,。
detached from us.。
But the story tells us who God really is.。
He's still working, still working behind the scene.。
Look at the cross, look at the crucifixion。
of his own one and only son.。
He's still there.。
He's still there in the life of Joseph.。
He's still there in your life.。
Let's all pray together.。
(gentle piano music)。
Father, as we try to sort out the mystery。
of your sovereignty,。
the mystery of all the happenings in our life,。
I pray that if we're going through a season of success,。
we don't forget, we don't forget your hand,。
your invisible hand is still working in our lives.。
So we come before you to give thanks.。
Thank you, because it's not by our own ordinary means。
that we can achieve all of this.。
The fact that we enjoy peace,。
a good season in our lives,。
it's because of your grace.。
But we are going through some valleys,。
some dark moments in our lives.。
Help us to remember that you are still working。
behind the scene.。
You're moving slowly,。
mysteriously, but faithfully in our life.。
Help us to trust in you.。
Help us to continue to put our faith in you,。
knowing that you are the God who sees all things.。
We still wanna praise you,。
we still wanna give thanks to you,。
knowing that we can trust in you.。
In Christ, I pray.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
