Good morning family. It is great to be together again. Last week we finished up。
Matthew chapter 5 and so this week we're going to be beginning Matthew chapter 6.。
And Jesus opens Matthew chapter 6 talking about hypocrisy and he actually。
talks about it for quite a few verses. He gives us three really powerful。
illustrations of how damaging hypocrisy is to our lives as subjects of the。
kingdom. And so we'll be talking about this topic for the next few weeks。
because we're going to go through these these verses. It's a pretty big section. But。
today we're just going to kind of introduce it and scratch the surface.。
We're going to look at the first verse of Matthew 6. As usual I have some。
footage for you to look at today. It's hiking footage but I'm going to let you。
know it's not from Cook County. All the other hikes that you've seen in the。
past few weeks have been from Cook County, mostly the forest preserves right。
here around the city of Chicago. And most of them are in southwest Cook County。
because that's close to where I live. But there are places you could get to in 30。
minutes or so from the city. But this week we're going to have something。
different. On the last week of September, Jessamyn and I took the Z's to Great。
Smoky Mountain National Park and we really enjoyed it. We stayed in the North。
Carolina side. It was really quiet there, not many people, easy to social distance。
and it was very peaceful. And we did a lot of hiking with the kids in the park.。
So I'm going to share some footage of that with you. But as you see it you'll。
probably see some things you'll say, "Wait a second, I don't think that's anywhere。
around Chicago." It is really beautiful and it was a beautiful time of year to。
be there. And so I just want to encourage you, as I often do, to get outside and。
enjoy God's creation. It's something that's really healthy for us, especially。
during times of uncertainty. And it helps us to connect with God and gives。
us a sense of peace. And this is a great time to do it. Autumn is coming and so。
the trees are changing colors. Everything is really beautiful. So I encourage you。
to do that right here close to home. Find a place with not many people and stay。
safe and wear a mask if you need to. Do whatever you need to do. But get out and。
enjoy God's creation. It's an encouraging and uplifting thing.。
Back to Matthew chapter 6. Let's read verse 1 of chapter 6 together. In Matthew。
6 1 Jesus says this, "Beware of practicing your righteousness before。
other people in order to be seen by them. For then you will have no reward from。
your Father who is in heaven." Now as I said, Jesus goes on in this passage to。
give some illustrations of hypocrisy and of what this looks like. But in this。
first verse, Jesus is kind of laying out a general truth about hypocrisy. That we。
should be careful and avoid doing things for people rather than God. Caring about。
what people think of us rather than God. Caring about what the appearance, what。
the image of what we're doing is rather than the reality of our hearts and our。
lives. And that's what Jesus is pointing us to. And I want to call us back real。
quickly as we start to talk about this to the last verse of Matthew chapter 5。
Matthew 5 48. Remember we talked about that verse last week where Jesus says。
you therefore must be perfect as your Heavenly Father is perfect. And we kind。
of scratched the surface of talking about some of our responses to that。
verse. And we spent most of our time last week talking about the right response to。
that verse. The correct response that is to surrender to the fact that we can't。
live up to Matthew 5 48. We can't be perfect in the way that our Heavenly。
Father is perfect. We can't live up to God's standard. And so we need to。
surrender to that and we need to realize that Jesus wants to live through us. And。
that's the way that we begin to be who God wants us to be. And we begin to be。
who we want to be. But what I want us to see this week as we start to think about。
what it looks like to avoid hypocrisy in our lives. I want us to see that when we。
are confronted with the fact that we can't live up to God's standard. That we。
are imperfect as humans. That we make mistakes. That we sin. That we fall short.。
There are a few different responses we can have. And we mentioned this last week。
but we didn't dig into it as much. And the first response that we could have。
is just kind of a response of rebellion. Basically of saying, "Okay God I don't。
measure up to your standard and I don't want to. And I'm not gonna try and I'm。
gonna turn away and just do my own thing and live my life." And that's honestly the。
response that most of the world around us has to God's standard and to realizing。
that they fall short. Or maybe they don't even believe that they fall short and。
they say, "You know what I don't think I fall short." But their response is saying,。
"I want to rule my own life. I want to do what I want to do. And I'm not interested。
in listening to God. I'm gonna rebel against whatever God has said in this。
world and I don't care." That's one response that many people have. And that。
we have probably had at different times in our lives. Where we said, "God I don't。
measure up to the standard and I'm not gonna try. I want to just go my own way."。
Another response that we did mention last week is the response of despair.。
Just saying, "Well I can't measure up." And really allowing that to call into。
question our self-worth and attacking ourselves and getting to a point of。
condemnation and shame and saying, "I'm just a bad person and I can't do it and。
and I'm just gonna fall into despair and hopelessness." And obviously that's not。
the response that God wants us to have. God desires for us to grow close to Him。
and to change, to be transformed, to be made into His image. So God doesn't want。
us to get stuck in a place of despair or hopelessness. But that is something that。
can happen to us. And we've probably all been there as well in our journey as a。
believer. Where we said, "Okay I'm just struggling and I'm not who I want to be.。
And I feel hopeless and I want to give up that place of despair." Another。
unhealthy response is this response that Jesus is going to focus on in Matthew。
chapter 6. And that's the response of dishonesty or hypocrisy. And that's when。
we basically say, "You know what? I am going to pretend that I measure up and。
I'm going to tell a lie about the fact that I fall short." And we can tell that。
lie to different people. Sometimes we tell that lie to ourselves and we say,。
"Yeah I don't fall short. I do measure up. I am everything that God wants me to be。
and everything that I want to be." Sometimes we tell that lie to ourselves.。
Sometimes we tell it to God. Sometimes we say, "God I don't need you in my life。
because I'm good enough on my own." But sometimes we tell it to other people and。
we try to put forward this image that we are something that we're not. We try to。
put forward this perception, this illusion that we are keeping God's law。
and we're living right and we're doing all the right things in life even when。
that's not the reality of our heart. And that's a pretty good working definition。
of what hypocrisy is. Hypocrisy is when we are pretending, when we are acting,。
when we are giving off an image or creating some illusion that we are。
something that we're not. And when we're pretending to be something we're not.。
When we're pretending to be someone that we're not. That's when we fall into。
hypocrisy. And we know that hypocrisy is so hurtful, it's so damaging. And。
hypocrisy in relationship to our faith and our following of Jesus is probably。
some of the most damaging of all because it causes people to just discard God's。
truth. And people look at someone's life who's hypocritical and they say, "Well you。
know there's some things there, I've heard some truth about Jesus that。
maybe I might be interested in but then I see hypocrisy in someone's life and it。
just turns me away. I just want to discard, even the good things, I。
don't want to listen to them anymore because of hypocrisy." And so we know it。
can be really unhealthy and we've probably all been hurt by it in our。
lives. We've probably been hurt by someone who held us to some standard。
or told us that we were supposed to be a certain way but then they didn't live。
that out themselves. And their words and their actions didn't agree and that。
hypocrisy, that dissonance bothered us and hurt us and made us upset. We've。
probably all experienced that. And the reality is all of us as humans are。
hypocrites. We've all acted out hypocrisy. All of us have. It's something that's。
easy for me to talk about because I'm an expert in it. We all are experts in。
hypocrisy. We're all really good at pretending to be something we're not.。
We're all really good at trying to make other people think that we are someone。
that we are not in our heart and on the inside. It's something that all of us do.。
And last week we talked about the one right response to Matthew 5:48 and that。
is that response to surrender. We really covered that last week so I'm not going。
to get into it again but I just want to draw one thing as we move on this week。
and that is the fact that surrendering to God and allowing Jesus to live。
through us is really a journey and not a destination and that's so important for。
us to understand. And it's important that we understand that in order to avoid。
hypocrisy in our life because sometimes as followers of Jesus, as Christians, as。
subjects of the kingdom, we can think that surrender is a destination. That we。
get there once and once we've arrived that we're there for the rest of our。
life. That we get there and we say, "God, I'm gonna surrender. I'm gonna give it all。
up to you." And then after that it's done. And maybe we think that happens when we。
begin a relationship with Jesus when we're saved or maybe we think that。
happens when we have some type of experience in church where God really。
moves on our heart and we say, "Okay God, I'm gonna surrender everything to you."。
And those are beautiful moments and yes when that surrender happens it's real。
and it's complete but we still have this natural part of us, what the。
scripture calls the old man or the flesh, this part of us that's still。
really selfish and really sinful and that part of us fights against the。
spiritual part of us. The New Testament talks about this and that part of us。
wants to grab control back that we surrender to God. And so we don't just。
surrender once. It's not something that we get to that point and we surrender。
and then we never have to surrender again. No, we have to surrender and we。
have to surrender over and over again. It's a journey. It's a constant。
journey of surrender. We have to daily surrender to God's control and moment by。
moment when that part of us rises up and says, "No, I want to be selfish and I want。
to focus on me and I want to do what's right for me instead of trying to obey。
God." We have to surrender again and again and again throughout life. And that。
process, that journey in church, a lot of times people call it sanctification. It's。
just a big church word that means that we're becoming more like Christ.。
And as we continue to surrender, that's what happens. As we surrender more and。
more of our life and we surrender in those areas that we struggle in again。
and again, we begin to become more like Christ. We begin to be more of who God。
wants us to be and more of who we want to be. And our behavior changes, our。
attitudes change, the way we treat other people changes. Those things happen, but。
it's a process. It's not just a destination. And so if you find yourself。
saying, "Okay, I see that I fall short. I do want to surrender to Jesus, but then。
what about next week when I struggle again? What about a month from now when。
I'm still having problems with the same issues?" That's okay. It's a journey。
of surrender whereby we continue to walk in those things. We continue to repent of。
our sin. We continue to give control to Jesus and we continue to release control。
from our own hands. We continue to try to abide in Him like we talked about last。
week in John 15. It's a journey. It's a process. And that's important for us to。
know because sometimes in the church we say, "Well, I surrendered. I think I'm done.。
I've got it all figured out." And we start to walk in our own strength again. And。
once we do that, we start to fall into hypocrisy. We start to become someone who。
is acting like we're something that we're not. So today as we kind of。
introduce and think about hypocrisy, I want us to think about a few kind of big。
ideas about hypocrisy and maybe they'll help us to be aware of it in our。
life and to avoid it. And the first thing I want us to think about is why we're。
tempted towards hypocrisy. Why as humans there's such a strong temptation towards。
it. And I think the biggest reason that we're tempted towards hypocrisy, if we're。
honest with ourselves, is pride. We don't want to believe that we fall short of。
God's standard. We don't want to believe that we're something less than who we。
want to be. We don't want to believe that we're something less than perfect. And we。
don't... Our pride tells us, "No, don't let anybody know that you make mistakes. Don't。
let anybody know that you're less than perfect. Don't let anybody know that you。
could have a weakness or that you could struggle in any way." And so our pride。
puts us in this position where even though in our heart often we know that。
we we're broken and we struggle and we're not perfect, we don't want others。
to know that. And so we try to hide that. We put up a facade. We begin to build。
that image, that illusion that we're something that we're not. And our pride。
really tempts us towards hypocrisy. And there are other things that can tempt us。
towards that as well. Sometimes it's fear. It's fear of what other people will。
think or how other people will treat us. If they know that we make a mistake or。
if they know that we've failed in some way or if they know that we're imperfect,。
sometimes it's fear of the consequences. If someone finds out that we've made。
some mistake, what will happen and what will happen to us? And we might be afraid。
of that. Sometimes it's... Maybe it's just deception. Maybe sometimes we。
really are convinced that putting forth an image that is not really who we are。
is the best way to to live life or that maybe we actually are convinced that。
that's gonna help us or it's gonna protect someone else. There's a lot of。
reasons that we can do that. But I think a lot of them go back to that sense of。
pride. The fact that we don't want other people to know that we need any help. We。
don't want other people to know that we could struggle. We don't want other。
people to know that we fall short of God's standard. And the reality is the。
Bible tells us all of us fall short and that's why all of us end up being。
hypocrites because we all try to hide the fact that we fall short. We all try。
to hide it from one another. Now what is hypocrisy? When we talk about it in a。
biblical sense, I think we understand that what hypocrisy is, it's when we。
pretend to meet God's standard and we don't. None of us can meet God's standard。
on our own. Only through Christ can we meet that standard. We talked about that。
last week. And so anytime we start to pretend, whether it's just in our own。
mind or in the words or the actions that we display before others or the。
impression that we give other people, when we start to pretend that we're。
meeting God's standard and we're doing it, I'm doing it, when I pretend that I'm。
doing it, that's hypocrisy. I can't meet God's standard. Jesus can. And because of。
His love for me and His forgiveness and His grace, He can live through me and I。
can meet His standard with the power of Christ in my life. But on my own, I cannot.。
But oftentimes we begin to act like we can and do meet God's standard on our。
own, apart from Christ. We begin to act like we are making all the good choices。
and we're doing everything right and we are figuring everything out in life and。
that something is happening in our life because of our own goodness and that。
we've done all these things. That's just not true. It's when we pretend to。
meet God's standard, even though we don't and we can't, that's hypocrisy. And Jesus。
gets after the hypocrisy that we sometimes live out in our faith and He。
gives us these illustrations that we'll talk about in the next few weeks of。
people who do things to try to impress others. Sometimes we can get the idea。
that, well, if that's wrong, then maybe the way to avoid hypocrisy is just to。
hide everything I do. But that's not what Jesus is trying to say. Remember。
Matthew 5:16, the verse that we talked about a few months ago, it says。
we're supposed to let our light shine before men that they can see our good。
works and glorify our Father in heaven. Now the distinction here is that in。
Matthew 6:1 Jesus tells us, "Don't do things to please men," and in Matthew 5:16。
Jesus tells us, "Do things to please God." It's not really about hiding your。
actions from other people. It's about having the right heart motivation as you。
do them. And so that's another thing we need to understand about what hypocrisy。
is. Hypocrisy is when we undertake actions, even good actions, in order to。
give ourselves an image in front of other people rather than in order to。
please God. So how can we avoid hypocrisy? How can we avoid doing this? How can we。
avoid doing things for the wrong reasons? How can we avoid doing them to please。
other people or because other people are watching instead of doing them for God?。
How can we avoid giving other people an image of ourselves that doesn't agree。
with who we actually are in our heart? Well, Jesus has already given us a pretty。
good formula in the Beatitudes. Remember the first Beatitude, Jesus talks about。
poverty of spirit, and we talked a lot about what that is, that it's。
understanding your own spiritual bankruptcy and your own spiritual。
brokenness before God. And I think that's a foundational value that will help us。
to avoid hypocrisy. If we're operating from a place of humility where we。
understand our own need for God and we understand how broken we are, then we。
won't be trying to show other people that we're better than them. We won't be。
trying to give someone else an image of our own greatness or our own goodness or。
our own righteousness, because we'll understand who we really are. And I think。
that's a really important place for us to start as we think about how to avoid。
hypocrisy. But I think also, as I said, all of us as humans are hypocrites. All of us。
don't want other people to see that we might make a mistake or that we。
might be less than what we want to be. And so another important part of。
avoiding hypocrisy is being able to repent, being able to look at our life。
and say, "You know what? I wasn't fully honest with the people around me about。
who I am. I tried to give them a perception or an image that I'm。
something that I'm not, and I need to repent of that." Be honest and repent。
before God, first of all. Take that to God and say, "God, that wasn't right. I know。
it was wrong. Will you forgive me? Will you help me not to do that in the future?"。
But also, if you need to repent before someone else, and what I mean by that is。
you can ask their forgiveness. If you've done something that was hypocritical。
and it's been hurtful to someone in your life and you know that it's been。
hurtful to them, then you should go to them and ask forgiveness and say, "Hey, I。
know I represented myself as this and that's not who I am," or "I know I asked。
you to live to some standard that I didn't live up to. I know I asked you to。
to do things and respond in a certain way, and then I didn't respond in that。
way. I know I got frustrated at you for getting upset or for struggling in。
this area, and that's the area where I struggle, and I get upset about those。
same things all the time." If your hypocrisy has harmed someone else, then。
repent to them. Go say, "Hey, I'm sorry, and that wasn't right, and I want to。
be more transparent in the future, and I want to be more honest about my。
struggles, and I don't want to present myself as something that I'm not."。
Obviously, we can always ask God, and we can say, "God, can you really help me?"。
This is an area where you struggle, where you find yourself a lot of times。
presenting yourself to other people as someone that you're not, and trying to。
show yourself as better than others, or trying to show yourself as more。
righteous than others, or whatever it is. If you struggle in that area, ask for。
God's help, and say, "God, can you help me to stay humble? Can you help me to be。
honest and transparent about my struggles in my life, and not to hide。
that from other people? Can you help me to not try to put some image out there,。
to not act like I don't make mistakes?" Then, obviously, the truth。
that we talked about last week, that surrender, whereby you say, "God, I know。
the reality is I'm not going to be perfect as my Heavenly Father is。
perfect. I'm not going to live up to your standard, and I'm going to surrender to。
you, and let Jesus live through me, so that when people look at me, they will。
see the reality of the situation. They will see the reality of what it means to。
be a Jesus follower, to be a subject of the kingdom. Here's the reality that。
people should see in our lives. Here's the reality that I pray people see in my。
life. When someone looks at my life, I want them to see me as a broken person.。
I don't want them to see me as some type of great spiritual giant. I want them to。
see me as a broken person, but I want them to see the love of Jesus and the。
attributes of Jesus shining through me. That's what we should pray for, and。
that's what we should surrender to. We should say, "God, I want Jesus to live。
through me, so that when people look at me, they won't see my perfection. They'll。
see Jesus' perfection." Because when we are hypocritical and we act like we're。
something we're not, we put the focus on us. It's hard for people to see Jesus.。
Even if they buy into our hypocrisy, they're just going to think we're the most。
amazing person that ever lived, and they'll never see Jesus. We don't。
want that. We don't want that. It's unhealthy, and it puts us on a pedestal。
we were never meant to be on. It puts us on a pedestal that, once we fall。
off, it disappoints and discourages people. We don't want to live that way. We。
should want people to see our brokenness and to see the perfection of Jesus.。
As John the Baptist said, we should be decreasing so that Jesus can be。
increasing. That point of surrender will help us to avoid hypocrisy in our。
life, to say, "God, I want to surrender to you and let you live through me, so that。
people are seeing you and not me." Let's pray. God, thank you for the reality of。
your truth. Thank you for the way you don't let us get away with our mess.。
God, our hypocrisy is mess. It is a problem. It is so toxic and so hurtful.。
It's so hurtful to us to pretend that we're something we're not. It's so。
hurtful to the people around us, and it's definitely hurtful to our witness in the。
world as believers, as we try to share the gospel and share your love. If we are。
being hypocrites, then it destroys our witness. God, I pray that you would。
really work in our hearts. Help us to see the reasons that we act that way. Help us。
to see our pride or our fear or ways that we've been deceived and to turn away。
from those things. God, help us to see that we can't meet your standard and we。
shouldn't act like we do. God, help us to see that you desire for us to live。
in a way that's pleasing to you, not just trying to please other humans. God,。
help us to live in a place of poverty of spirit, humility, repentance. God, help us。
to live from the place of surrender so that Jesus is able to live through us.。
God, help us to avoid hypocrisy. Help us to avoid putting out an image that we're。
perfect or that we are doing everything right or that we're something that we're。
not. Help us to live in an honest and transparent way so that our witness is。
amplified and so that when people look at our lives, they see less and less of。
us and more and more of Jesus. God, we just ask these things in your name. Amen.。
