Good morning, UV.。
It's good to be with you all again today。
and just opening up the word of God.。
Okay, cool.。
All right, so compared to the generations。
that come before us, I would say that we live。
in a world of extreme convenience, right?。
What do I mean by that, a world of extreme convenience?。
Well, if you have a question about something。
or you need information about a specific topic,。
you don't have to go through the hassle。
of figuring it out on your own right now.。
You can just pull out your phone, put out your computer,。
and just type the questions in Google or chat GPT now,。
and you can probably get your answers instantly as well.。
Or if you wake up in the morning and find out that,。
oh, I'm actually running out of my coffee beans,。
you can just put an order in Amazon。
and have it delivered overnight。
and sometimes even on the same day as well, right?。
So not only are we able to have a lot of information。
on our fingertips or get the things that we want。
as quickly as possible now,。
but we can also get the things that we want。
any time of the day now.。
So as I was preparing for my sermon this week,。
I was curious about where this phrase 24/7 comes from.。
And as a perfect example of living。
in this world of extreme convenience,。
obviously I did some quick research on Google.。
And guess what?。
This phrase actually originated in the United States。
in the late 20th century,。
originally in the world of sports.。
But since then, we see an increasing amount of businesses。
that is modeled after this idea of 24 hours a day,。
seven days a week, like 7-Eleven.。
Fast food restaurants like McDonald's。
or ride share business like Uber or Lyft.。
Or customer service hotlines,。
online businesses, et cetera, et cetera.。
However, way before this idea of 24/7 gains popularity。
and became the norm of our society,。
there's actually a group of Christians called the Moravian。
who started a 24/7 prayer watch,。
not just for a day or a week or a month。
or a year or a decade.。
But on August 27, 1727,。
this group of 24 men and 24 women。
from this Moravian community of Hernhut in Saxony, Germany,。
they committed to pray in hourly shifts,。
covering each and every hours of the day continuously.。
And this around-the-clock prayer change。
actually lasted for more than 100 years,。
sparking a revival within this community。
and transforming this tiny village of Hernhut。
into one of the most important hubs。
for Protestant global mission movement in the 18th century.。
And they also laid the foundation。
for our current modern mission movement as well.。
So if you were at my previous sermon here,。
you might remember this question that I asked all of us.。
How is your relationship with the Lord。
when it comes to your prayer life?。
Of course, I know the history。
of the Moravian prayer movement is a unique case,。
and we have never seen anything like that since then。
in our church history.。
However, like the prayers of the Moravians,。
which turned this community initially marked by conflict。
and division into a place of revival。
and a place for global missions,。
our prayer is also the field behind everything that we do。
in our personal walk with Jesus,。
as well as the things that we do for God's kingdom。
as followers of God.。
So personally, I am grateful to the people。
who have taught me and show me how to pray.。
Of course, there's my parents。
who taught me how to pray as a kid,。
and also my mom who continuously to show me。
what a faithful prayer life looks like right now.。
And there's also one of my pastor, Pastor Rafe,。
who modeled for me what it means。
to sit before the Lord in silence.。
We used to meet early in the morning in his office,。
and I'm usually the first thing in his work calendar.。
So before we talk about anything,。
he would just kneel down on the floor in his office。
and spend about five to 10 minutes just to listen,。
listen before the Lord, sitting still before the Lord.。
And every time he would invite me to join him as well。
in his silent prayers.。
I'm also thankful for my friend, Hailey,。
who always reminds me to turn to God first things first.。
A couple years ago, I was in the seasons of waiting。
and just a lot of uncertainties.。
And one time as I was catching up with her over a run。
and share about some of these things that I'm worried about,。
she just turned to me and say,。
"Hey, why don't we just pray right now?"。
So she ended up praying over me。
while we were running around in the park.。
And I'm also thankful for all the different community,。
the groups, my small groups,。
that I got to be a part of in the past.。
These people have shown me what it looks like。
to labor in prayers for one another,。
to celebrate together when our prayers are being answered,。
and to wrestle with the Lord。
when our prayers are not being answered.。
And sometimes to just sit in the unknown。
while waiting for God to respond to our prayer requests.。
So personally, I'm in debt to these people。
who have modeled for me。
what a vibrant prayer life looks like.。
But today we have the opportunity to learn。
how to pray from the master himself, Jesus.。
In some ways, our passage today。
is a glimpse into Jesus's own prayer life.。
All throughout Jesus's ministry,。
we always see that he would retreat to some quiet places。
to pray alone, but we don't have much information。
about the actual content of his prayer.。
So our passage today is sort of like。
a going behind the scenes。
and taking a peek into Jesus's own prayer life。
and how he communes with God the Father.。
So to better situate our passage today。
within the larger context of the Sermon on the Mount,。
this model prayer that Jesus taught his disciple。
comes right after he tells them how not to pray.。
So first, Jesus tells them not to pray like the hypocrites。
who love praying standing in the synagogues。
or on the street corner。
in order to be seen by other people.。
So Jesus warns again this kind of self-gratifying prayer,。
first and foremost.。
And second, Jesus teaches them not to pray like the pagan。
who just keep on babbling with words。
with the hope that one of the small letter,。
quote unquote, "gods" will share their prayer.。
So Jesus also warns again this kind of superstitious prayer.。
And coming right after these two negative examples。
of how not to pray in a self-gratifying。
and also in a superstitious way,。
Jesus continues in Matthew 6, verse 9.。
"This then is how you should pray."。
So let's look at this model prayer from Jesus together.。
And I'm sure a lot of you have probably memorized this。
before as a kid.。
So I want all of us to read this together。
as a church this morning.。
Can we do that?。
I have it on the screen as well.。
So let's begin.。
"This then is how you should pray.。
"Our Father in heaven,。
"hallowed be your name.。
"Your kingdom come,。
"your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
"Give us today our daily bread。
"and forgive us our debts。
"as we also have forgiven our debtors.。
"And lead us not into temptation,。
"but deliver us from the evil."。
Okay, so notice how Jesus begins his prayer.。
"Our Father."。
He begins with these two words.。
So in contrast to the self-gratifying prayer。
of the hypocrites, which begins and ends。
with themself in mind,。
these prayers actually begins with God.。
And there's so much more theology。
that is just associated with these two words.。
"Our Father."。
However, I want to take some time。
just to highlight a few for us today.。
So Father is obviously a familial language, right?。
So what Jesus is teaching here。
is that the God of the universe,。
the creator of all things,。
the author of life,。
he is not just a father,。
but he is our father.。
This means that when we come before God in our prayer,。
this relationship is not just between a God and his people,。
but this relationship is between a father。
and his beloved children.。
Of course, I want to acknowledge。
that when it comes to our relationship。
with our earthly father,。
we all have different kind of experience, right?。
Some are good, some are bad,。
some might just be indifferent.。
And a lot of time,。
our experience with our earthly fathers。
will inevitably affect how we view our heavenly father.。
However, the good news that we know from the Bible。
is that if we read the Bible from cover to cover,。
we consistently see the loving。
and compassionate character of our father。
on full display throughout these pages,。
with the ultimate examples。
being God sending his own son into the world。
to die for a group of people who don't really deserve it.。
So regardless of how your relationship。
with your earthly father is or was,。
don't let that become a deterrent for you。
to come before your heavenly father in prayer.。
And when we begin our prayer with these words,。
our father in heaven,。
we pray knowing who God is, our father,。
and who we are in relationship to him,。
his beloved children.。
To put it another way,。
when we knock on heaven's door with our prayer,。
we hold our ID as co-heirs with Jesus himself.。
And every heavenly inheritance that is available to Jesus,。
we get to have a part of it as well.。
So our father in heaven.。
So after knowing who God is。
and who we are in relationship to him,。
we can bring our request and our petition before the Lord.。
So the next line, "Hallowed be your name."。
Hallowed, obviously, is an old English word, right?。
I don't think any one of us would use this word。
in our day to day anymore.。
But what it means is simply just to make holy。
or to set apart.。
So this is the first petition in the Lord's prayer,。
and it begins with worship and adoration towards God.。
May your name be kept holy.。
In other words, it is a God-oriented petition.。
How often in our prayer do we jump straight。
into lifting not the name of God,。
but other names and idols,。
such as success, wealth, comfort, security, or approval?。
However, right here,。
Jesus shows us a very different way to pray,。
one that begins with worship.。
Hallowed be your name, or may your name be kept holy.。
There are two implied subjects in this petition,。
the first one being us.。
May your name be kept holy and sacred by us as his people.。
So holiness is at the core of who God is,。
and as Jesus' disciple,。
his holiness should also be visible。
and evident in our day to day life.。
And the second implied subject here is God himself,。
that God himself will make the holiness。
that comes along with his name。
to be manifested throughout the entire world.。
And so when we pray,。
remember that hallowed be your name。
is an invitation for us to reorient the affections。
of our hearts towards God.。
And everything that comes in the Lord's prayer after this。
is an overflow of this kind of heart posture。
before the Lord, one of worship, one of adoration.。
So let's continue.。
May your kingdom come.。
So after we lift up our adoration towards God,。
we find this second God-oriented petition.。
May your kingdom come.。
This second petition calls for the fullness。
of God's kingdom to come,。
and it highlights the already,。
but not yet aspects of God's kingdom.。
Put it another way, this kingdom of heaven。
has already begun in the first coming of Jesus,。
hence the already part.。
But we can only experience the fullness。
of this heavenly kingdom。
when Jesus comes again in the future,。
hence the not yet part of it.。
And then Jesus continues.。
Your kingdom come, your will be done。
on earth as it is in heaven.。
So what is God's will?。
God's will is his divine purpose for each of his people。
and also for the rest of the world.。
And so this third petition, your will be done,。
calls for the fullness of God's will。
that is currently only present in the heaven。
to be fully manifested on earth as well.。
So a couple of years ago,。
I was in the seasons of waiting and uncertainties, right?。
And the Lord Prayers became one of my go-to prayer.。
But every time I came to this line,。
specifically, your will be done,。
my entire body would just tense up。
because I understand what it means。
to truly pray these words.。
If I pray for God's will to be done,。
what that means is that I would have to give up。
my own preference, my own plan, and also my own kingdom.。
However, if we truly want to see heaven meets earth,。
a posture of surrender is required。
in order for God's will to be done in our life,。
in our community, in our city, in our church,。
and also in the rest of the world.。
So prayer is the place where the heavenly realities。
began to invade on our earth.。
In prayer, we call upon the peace and justice of God。
to push back against the darkness of our world.。
In prayer, we reach for the heavenly resource。
and distribute them to places in our world。
that is being destroyed by sin and brokenness.。
So, on earth as it is in heaven is an intercessory prayer.。
When we pray for his kingdom to come。
and for his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven,。
we are asking God himself to intercede。
in the realities of our broken world。
with his kingdom realities.。
So I love how this author put it.。
When we engage in intercessory prayer,。
we are loving others on the basis of heaven's resource.。
So, when we pray for the sick,。
we are reaching for God's divine power to heal.。
When we pray for wars and conflicts。
throughout our world right now,。
we are reaching for God's heavenly peace.。
And when we pray for the non-believers in our lives,。
we are reaching for the power of gospel to transform life.。
So, prayer is where heavens meets earth.。
And in the Lord's prayer, this line on earth。
as it is in prayer also functions as a link。
between the reality of God。
and also the reality of our world.。
If you pay attention, these first three petitions。
is all about God, right?。
Your name, your kingdom, and your will.。
And so remember, first, prayer begins with God and not us.。
It is only when we are able to give God the honor。
and the glory that is due to his name。
and also align our priorities in accordance to his will。
that we are able to know the right thing to ask for。
in our prayer.。
So heaven is the source of all power。
and earth is the place where this power。
is being made visible.。
So the following three petitions will finally be about us.。
Give us today our daily bread.。
So this is the first we or us-oriented petition。
and it is a prayer of dependence on God。
for our daily sustenance.。
For most of us, this daily bread prayer。
is probably something that we don't quite pray。
as often nowadays, right?。
When you go to the grocery store or Costco,。
you don't just buy enough grocery to last you for a day,。
but I'm sure most of us will usually get enough。
to get through us for at least a week, right?。
But for most of Jesus' audience,。
they don't experience the same kind of abundance。
and wealth as we do today.。
Daily bread for them is not always guaranteed.。
However, because of our abundance,。
we slowly lose our dependence on God。
and become more and more reluctant to ask God。
for our basic day-to-day small requests.。
And because of our abundance,。
we slowly lose our sense of gratitude。
and begin to take things for granted.。
The food on our table, the air that we breathe,。
or the roof that is over our head,。
and the list goes on and on.。
So back to the seasons of waiting。
that I was in a couple years ago.。
One of the things that the Lord really revealed to me。
in that season was that I became so used。
to praying safe prayers.。
And what do I mean by that?。
There were things that I was not willing。
to bring before the Lord because I decided for myself。
that God probably would not meet those needs.。
And so I would rather not pray about those things at all。
than to bring them before the Lord。
and then have a chance to get disappointed by God。
when he didn't answer it.。
Or there would be other needs that I felt like。
they were just too insignificant to even bring。
before the God of the universe.。
So I would just resort to some vague or general prayers.。
But after that, I made an effort to pray more vulnerably。
and ask God for more specific things,。
allowing myself to either get surprised by God。
or get disappointed by God.。
I stopped filtering my own prayer。
and began to pray more freely and more boldly.。
And of course, I'm not going to pretend。
that everything went on smoothly after that.。
There were things in that season。
that I was really hoping for God to come true,。
but they never happened.。
But at the same time, when God show up。
in the exact way that I prayed for,。
I know for sure that it was God himself.。
And because of this, my relationship with God。
actually becomes so much more intimate now.。
So church, daily bread prayer is an exercise of trust,。
trusting that the all-knowing,。
all-powerful God is in control。
and we can fully entrust our lives into his hand,。
down to the minute and trivial details of our lives.。
So don't be afraid to bring your ordinary,。
everyday requests before God,。
even if you feel like they're not important enough。
to even pray about.。
And from prayer for our daily bread,。
we move on to the next petition.。
And forgive us our debts,。
as we also have forgiven our debtors.。
So this is the second petition that is oriented towards us.。
And it shifts from our physical need。
now to our spiritual need.。
And when Jesus mentioned debts here,。
he's referring to our debts to God.。
And therefore, what he means is just。
forgiveness of our sins,。
the way that we have sins against God.。
And so when we pray, forgive us of our debts,。
this is a confessional prayer.。
Because before we can ask for forgiveness,。
we need to be able to name our own sins.。
First John 1, I say, if we confess our sins,。
he is faithful and just,。
and he will forgive us of our sins。
and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.。
But pay attention, Jesus doesn't just stop here.。
He says, forgive us our debts,。
as we also have forgiven our debtors.。
Did you hear that?。
Because of our experience of divine forgiveness,。
it should allow us a greater willingness。
to forgive those who have sinned against us,。
or those who have hurt us.。
Later in Matthew 18, Jesus told of a parable。
of an unforgiving servant,。
who owe his master 10,000 talents.。
So a talent is almost 20 years worth of wages。
for a day laborer during Jesus' times.。
But the master forgave all 10,000 talents of debt。
for this servant.。
But when this unforgiving servant got free,。
he saw one of his fellow servants。
who owe him 100 denarii,。
which is only about 100 days worth of wages.。
So you compare 100 days worth of wages。
to 20 times 10,000 days worth of wages, right?。
And yet this servant, he refused to cancel the debt。
and put his fellow servants into prison.。
And as you can imagine, when the master found out,。
he was furious.。
He summoned this unforgiving servant。
and called him a wicked servant,。
because he refused to show mercy to his fellow servant,。
who owe him way less than the mercy。
that he has received himself.。
And this wicked servant ended up being put into jail himself。
because of that.。
And Jesus end this parable with this warning.。
This is what your heavenly father would do to you。
if you refuse to forgive your brothers and sister。
from your heart.。
And in fact, this is so important,。
that right after the Lord's prayer,。
in verse 14 and 15, Jesus added this remark.。
For if you forgive other people when they sin against you,。
your heavenly father will also forgive you.。
But if you do not forgive others their sin,。
your father will not forgive your sins.。
So when we receive forgiveness from God,。
it should transform our heart。
and enable us to forgive those who have sinned against us。
in a way lesser extent than we have sinned against God.。
This is because being a follower of Jesus。
is not just about our vertical relationship with him,。
but it is also about our horizontal relationship。
with other people made in the image of God.。
And then we have the final petition in this Lord's prayer.。
Lead us not into temptation,。
but deliver us from the evil one.。
This petition is one of deliverance,。
specifically from the evil one.。
And one of the realities of living in this fallen world。
is that temptation are just inevitable.。
But as God's children,。
he promised that he would not allow us to be tempted。
beyond what we can endure,。
and he would always provide a way out for us.。
And so a better way to understand this petition。
is I like how the NLT translate it.。
Do not let us yield into temptation.。
So this last petition is not a request。
to be completely immune from all sorts of temptation,。
but it is a prayer to God to give us the strength。
to overcome them when we are faced with various temptation.。
So we've come to the end of the Lord's prayer,。
and this model prayer from Jesus is straightforward enough。
that even a child can memorize, can recite, can pray it.。
But at the same time, there is so much depth to it。
that we can spend a whole series just diving into it.。
So as I was preparing for my sermon this week,。
I went back and forth on how I want to end my sermon,。
because there is so much more。
that we didn't even touch upon.。
However, I feel like I would do a disservice to all of you。
if I didn't give all of you some extended time。
just to sit with this prayer,。
and to even spend some time praying through it yourself,。
because the best way to allow the Word of God。
to transform us is not just to sit and listen to a sermon,。
but to actually live it out, to practice it.。
So to give a little guide,。
I kind of created this framework。
based on the Lord's prayer that I hope will help。
all of us pray through the Lord's prayer。
in five different movement.。
So there's worship, there's intercession,。
there is petition, there is confession and reconciliation,。
and there's also deliverance.。
And during our time of reflection,。
pick one or maybe two of these areas。
which are most relevant in your personal life right now.。
Maybe for some of you,。
there are things that you need to bring before the Lord。
and confess before Him.。
And maybe for some of you,。
there are sins and struggles in your life。
that you need to pray to God and ask for deliverance.。
And maybe for the rest of you,。
you just need some extended time to worship,。
to fix your eyes upon God's beauty and His glory.。
So I would encourage all of us just to take some time。
to listen to the Holy Spirit.。
I'll have Amanda out just to play。
some background music as well.。
And before you head out later,。
I actually also printed out a more extended version。
of each of these movements that you can take a copy home。
and spend some time this week to pray through it.。
Yeah, I will have, I think it is on the table。
right at the back.。
So on your way out, feel free to grab a copy.。
And my hope is that you will spend some time this week。
in your personal devotional time。
just to pray through them as well.。
And so as we spend some time in prayer and reflection,。
feel free to move around the room if you need to.。
If you would like a more private space,。
you can just get off your seat and go to a place。
that you feel like you're more comfortable praying in.。
Or if you come with someone else,。
you can also get into a group of two or three。
and just pray together.。
Or husband and wife, feel free to also get together。
and pray as a couple.。
Or if you know of people in the rooms。
that have a specific needs that you can pray for,。
feel free to go over to them,。
lay your hand over them and pray over them.。
Okay, so I want this time to be filled with prayer。
and no structure at all.。
And after a few moments, I will come up here。
and end our time of prayer together.。
So church, let's spend the next five minutes or so。
just praying.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
Church, let's pray together.。
Our Heavenly Father, we praise your holy name.。
Thank you for adopting us into your family。
and give us the honor to be called sons and daughters。
of God through Jesus Christ.。
May your kingdom come and your will be done。
on earth as it is in heaven,。
in urban voice as it is in heaven,。
in Chicago as it is in heaven.。
(gentle music continues)。
While we experience brokenness and suffering。
on this side of heaven,。
we know that this is not what you intended in creation.。
And so we long for you to come again,。
to bring your perfect peace。
and your perfect wholeness to earth.。
Father, provide us with our daily needs,。
both big and small.。
Forgive us of our sins as we forgive those。
who sins against us.。
Help us to not yield to temptation。
because we know that we are not just fighting。
against flesh or blood,。
but we're fighting against evil rulers。
and authorities of the unseen world,。
against mighty power in this dark world。
and against evil spirits in the heavenly places.。
So give us strength to overcome the evil ones.。
For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory.。
Amen.。
All right, thank you all.。
Just a reminder on your way out,。
feel free to grab a copy of,。
it is kind of like a daily devotions。
that will help you pray through these five movement。
based on the Lord's prayer.。
So grab a copy home.。
I have 20 copies, so we should have enough.。
And we will also have,。
okay, we don't know if there's refreshment out there,。
so you can go out and get surprised,。
but that's pretty much it.。
Okay, thank you all for coming,。
for joining us for our worship.。
Go in peace, your love.。
