Can you say hi, like high five or whatever?。
Just wave your hand, okay?。
Good to see you all.。
And it's good to be back to think about the Lord's,。
the Lord's word, what it's gonna say to us.。
We're gonna go through our series,。
continue with our series, Faith and Time.。
Think about how we use our time.。
Think about how God will put different markers。
in our time, in our journey,。
to remind us of his work and his grace.。
Today, we're going to talk about the concept。
or the practice of Sabbath.。
Sabbath.。
Sabbath is what day of the week?。
First day, third day, fifth, sixth?。
What's your guess?。
The seventh, right?。
Yeah, exactly, seventh, yeah.。
The seventh, okay.。
Well, according to Jewish calendar,。
it's Friday, sundown, you're gonna launch the Shabbat.。
And then for 24 hours until Saturday,。
which is the seventh day, right?。
Seventh day of the week,。
until the sundown of the next day on Saturday.。
So 24 hours is the Sabbath or Shabbat, all right?。
It is a regular weekly practice,。
even for many modern Jewish people,。
Israelis, or even in Jewish communities today,。
like community in Skokie or in other areas,。
Brooklyn or anywhere you get a concentration。
of a lot of Jewish people,。
they will continue the practice of Shabbat.。
Friday night to Saturday night,。
for 24 hours, they don't do any work.。
They stop anything that they do in the past six days.。
So they cease all the work,。
and then they don't do a lot of things,。
like they don't cook.。
They don't start any fire.。
So in modern day technology, they put their phone away.。
They don't push any button, you know what I'm saying?。
'Cause you push a button, the light will go up, right?。
And that is considered a violation of the Shabbat,。
because you're lighting things up, right?。
Starting a fire.。
Strange, right?。
Do you wanna live like that?。
No, right?。
(audience laughing)。
But if you ask them, many of them will be grateful。
for such a practice.。
Interesting, right?。
To stop anything that you're doing,。
just to take a break,。
especially in our technology tyranny.。
We are living in a technology tyranny.。
We are being massacred actually by our phone,。
by technology, by a lot of different things.。
So it's a very interesting practice.。
And actually the Bible emphasizes once and again。
that the people of God should do something like that,。
should observe Sabbath.。
As I said, many modern Jewish people,。
modern Israelis, they are practicing this sort of Shabbat.。
So let me give you some example.。
If you go to Israel or any community。
that has a lot of Jewish people,。
you'll find a Shabbat elevator.。
A Shabbat elevator is a Jewish elevator.。
So whenever there's a weekly Shabbat or high holidays,。
they already program the elevator。
so that you don't have to go into the elevator。
and push a button, right?。
Again, that's why I said, if you push a button,。
something light up, it consider violation。
because you are lighting things up, right?。
You're starting a fire.。
So here's one of them.。
I think this picture was found in Brooklyn, in New York.。
The second one is another form of Shabbat elevator.。
So you go to a high rise, right?。
And this elevator, the one on the right, elevator A,。
and which floor do you go to?。
This Shabbat elevator, by the way,。
we will stop at every single floor and then come back.。
So you go into the Shabbat elevator,。
you don't have to press the button.。
It will close automatically.。
It will bring you to the floor that you want。
and then you will exit, right?。
And then the elevator A on the right is that,。
from basement to ground floor is zero,。
to one, two, three, four, and then come back down。
to zero and then minus two or basement,。
and then go back up.。
Elevator D is a little bit different, right?。
If you want to go to floor eight,。
then you take A or you take D.。
That's right, if you take A,。
then it will take a long time for you。
because you have to come back.。
And then you find out I was in the wrong elevator.。
And then you have to go to D, right?。
So it will stop every single floor。
in order for you to cease doing any work to observe Shabbat.。
Last one I want to show you is this one.。
It's a warning sign in case of fire,。
do not use the elevator.。
Do you know that?。
We shouldn't use elevator in case there's fire, right?。
And even worse, if you go into a Shabbat elevator, right?。
'Cause it will bring you to the floor of fire, right?。
(laughs)。
And then you have to survive the floor。
and then you come back, right?。
It will be a big trouble for you.。
This sort of thing is very interesting.。
But as I said, the Bible keeps on talking about。
the marker in the lives of the people of God。
that they need to do something like that, all right?。
In their time, in their schedule,。
there has to be something that will show,。
that will mark themselves away from。
or different from other people in the world.。
Shabbat is one of the killer, one of the sure marker.。
So what does it mean?。
Shabbat means stop.。
You stop doing anything.。
You cease to work.。
One day a week.。
You stop doing what you have been doing for six days.。
And then you stop for one day.。
That is what Sabbath means.。
The first time the Bible mentions Shabbat is。
Shabbat is the creation story, Genesis 2.。
The creation of heaven and earth,。
everything is done, was complete.。
On the seventh day, God had finished his work of creation.。
So he rest Shabbat from all his work.。
And God blessed and sanctified, declared holy the seventh day.。
Because it was the day when he rested Shabbat。
from all his work of creation.。
So right off the bat, the very first page of the Bible,。
God works like that.。
Six days he created or he organized the entire cosmos,。
arranged it in such a way that is in order.。
And then the seventh day, God blessed and sanctified。
and set it apart, declared holy, or the seventh day.。
And then there is the fourth commandment。
in the 10th commandment passage.。
One of them is Exodus 20.。
Remember to observe the seventh day by keeping it holy.。
And by the way, this is the fourth commandment.。
This is the longest explained commandment of all 10.。
You know, other commandments are just one or two sentences.。
Here, talking about Shabbat, the fourth commandment.。
Observe the seventh day by keeping holy.。
You have six days each week for your ordinary work.。
But the seventh day is special.。
It is Sabbath, day of rest, dedicated to the Lord, your God.。
On that day, no one in your household may do any work,。
including your sons and daughters, your male servant。
or your female servant, your livestock, everything else,。
even your sheep, even your pets, your dog, your cat.。
They stop doing any work.。
I know your dogs and your cats don't do any work.。
You do works for them, right?。
In six days, the Lord made the heavens and the earth,。
the sea and everything in them.。
On the Shabbat, on the seventh day, He rested.。
And that's why the Lord Yahweh blessed the seventh day。
and set it apart, sanctified it as holy.。
This is how God works.。
Six days of work, and then one day, He set it apart,。
sanctified it, declared it special and holy.。
Holy and special, distinct from all the other six days.。
A six plus one, parallel, right?。
Six days, and then one day, six day and one day.。
It's like you read the music scores, right?。
You know how to read music scores?。
Kind of, right?。
There's always rest at some places, right?。
Good music does not mean you jam everything together。
and there's no space, right?。
You hear someone play piano, if he's good,。
play some sort of instrument,。
there has to be intentional rest in between, right?。
Do you get it?。
Right?。
It's like you writing a novel or something.。
There's always commerce in between.。
And then period, here and there.。
Punctuations.。
Sabbath is our life punctuation.。
It's our rhythm.。
God set the rhythm of our life.。
Six plus one, and then six plus one.。
This is how God works.。
God bless the seven day and declare it holy.。
Can you see what God does here?。
It's very interesting.。
I read, you read it again.。
I mean, there's so many familiar passage in the Bible。
that we thought we know what it means。
because it's so familiar.。
But if you slow down and read the key words,。
you pick up the meaning.。
Genesis one and two is one of the examples.。
We all know the creation account, right?。
We read it and we feel it's so familiar, right?。
There's nothing surprising.。
But if you come to the seventh day, chapter two,。
it's very interesting.。
God bless, incentivize, declare holy the seventh day.。
Now what's so special about it?。
God created everything, right?。
Day one to day six.。
Then found the climax is creating humanity, right?。
There were a lot of things.。
There are a lot of stuff that God put in order。
in the universe.。
Now those are the things that can be set apart, right?。
Just like the temple, you go into a holy place,。
there were something more sacred than others, right?。
There's always distinction between what is sacred。
and what is not sacred, what is holy and what is profane.。
Things can be set apart, right?。
People can be set apart.。
Priests serving in the temple services,。
they can be set apart, they can be sanctified.。
They can be declared holy, different from other people.。
So things can be set apart and personnel can be set apart.。
However, the first thing God set apart。
is not a person or a people.。
It's not a thing or things.。
The first thing God sanctified is time.。
24 hours out of one week.。
He bless it, seven days, and declare it holy.。
Find it interesting that in the creation rhythm,。
there is a time pattern.。
There is a slot of time in the entire week。
that is called sacred time.。
Not anything, not any person, not any object,。
but a period of time, right?。
There's one very famous rabbi。
who wrote a very well-known work on Shabbat.。
His name is called Abraham Herschel.。
Now let me give you a quote.。
I think this quote worth your reflection.。
He talks about Shabbat, a time that is set apart.。
Sacred time, special time.。
So Herschel said, "There is a realm of time。
"where the goal is not to have, but to be."。
Not to own, but to give.。
Not to control, but to share.。
Not to subdue, but to be in accord.。
Now think about this thing.。
Consider all things in the universe,。
all things that God created, all the small, big things,。
you know, down to the molecules, down to the atoms,。
up to the planets, right?。
The galaxy, the universe.。
But there's only one realm that is different.。
It's the realm of time.。
The realm of time is purpose.。
It's not to subdue.。
It's not for us to control.。
That's interesting because, you know,。
like objects in the universe, you can subdue。
and you can control, you can take possession of it.。
Like this table.。
You know, I can take this table。
and you don't have this table.。
If I take it.。
Like the chair.。
You're sitting on your chair.。
Nobody's gonna sit on your chair。
because you're sitting on it, right?。
Unless, you know, the other person's sitting on your lap.。
You take possession of it.。
You control it.。
You subdue it.。
Now this is our desire, this is our purpose all the time.。
We take control of something。
and then nobody else can control it.。
It's kind of taking exclusive possession of something.。
Some property, right?。
Your house, right?。
You just bought a house, right?。
Somebody?。
You bought a house, it's your house,。
it's not somebody else's house anymore, right?。
Nobody can knock the door and say, "I wanna come in," right?。
You can only come in by invitation.。
It's your house.。
You take possession of it.。
But Herschel said, "Time is different."。
Think about it.。
You have 24 hours, I have 24 hours, right?。
You can take possession of 24 hours。
and take my hours out of mine, right?。
I have 24 hours, you have 24 hours,。
you have seven days, I have seven days.。
It is a realm not to own but to give.。
God created us as beings in time.。
You realize that?。
We live in time.。
We watch the clock.。
What time we go to work?。
We don't wanna be late.。
What time we go off work and then we have our time, right?。
What time do we go for dinner?。
After the service, what time are we getting there。
to have lunch, right?。
We don't wanna be late, right?。
What time is service?。
We wanna be there, right?。
But time is a realm in the entire universe。
not to control but to share.。
Think about it.。
When we have fellowship together,。
when we worship together, it's a time to share.。
That's why worship in the Bible has always been,。
has always been corporate, a group, a people together,。
not alone, right?。
Not individual enjoyment.。
We come together to share.。
It's very interesting.。
God blessed the seventh day.。
The first thing that God sanctified。
is the period of time in our lives.。
In your week of work, 24 hours, God set it apart.。
That's why when the Bible talks about Shabbat,。
it always relate to other things.。
Leviticus 23, six days each week for your ordinary work.。
But the seventh day is the Sabbath day,。
the Shabbat of complete rest,。
an official day for holy assembly.。
It is the Lord's Shabbat day.。
It must be observed whenever you live, wherever you live.。
In addition to Shabbat,。
there are the Lord's appointed festivals,。
official days for holy assembly。
that are to be celebrated at their proper times each year.。
Now, what does it mean?。
Shabbat for some other purpose.。
So in some sense, you start working,。
but in another sense, you do something together,。
which is holy assembly, to get together to worship,。
to get together to celebrate,。
to acknowledge who is in charge.。
And who is in charge?。
God is in charge.。
You go back to Genesis 2,。
when the Bible describes the work of God,。
the six days of creation,。
and then He rests on the seventh day.。
Now, it does not mean that God is tired.。
It does not mean that God is not human.。
It's not like us, right?。
We work for a whole day,。
and then we go back home and we sit on the lazy boy,。
and then we say, "We are tired."。
We want to get refreshed.。
No, God is not like human, but He rested.。
Now, what does it mean?。
Now, in the biblical world, in the ancient world,。
when they think about God resting,。
they are thinking of God being enthroned.。
Being the king.。
So whenever God rests, God rests in His temple.。
His temple is where He operates the entire world.。
So when Genesis 2 talks about God resting,。
it's talking about God being the king.。
He is seated on the throne,。
and He controls and organizes the entire cosmos.。
He operates the entire cosmos.。
That's what it means.。
Doesn't mean six days, He works so hard,。
and then the seventh day, "Oh, He's so tired.。
"He's exhausted.。
"He needs some rest."。
No, sixth day, He put together the entire cosmos,。
arranged it in such a way that it's in order.。
And then the seventh day,。
He sits in the control room in the temple。
to operate the entire universe.。
It's kind of like, it gives you a modern analogy.。
It's like, remember when the pandemic started。
about two, three years ago?。
Remember we have to switch everything back。
from in-person to online?。
So I bought a new computer.。
So I went to my basement, right?。
And then I got all the computer parts,。
my standing table, my monitors, my keyboard,。
and all the parts.。
I got everything in the basement.。
And then I spent almost like two to three days。
to put the entire computer system together,。
camera and all this stuff.。
Now, you got the wires,。
you got the different big or small parts.。
You put everything together.。
Now, if you imagine,。
we put the entire computer system together,。
what do you do after you're done?。
- Rest.。
- You rest.。
What do you do?。
The first button I push is the power on button.。
'Cause that is when the time you control, you operate.。
Same way, God put everything in order,。
like putting together a computer system.。
And then He push not the off button,。
He push the on button.。
So He's the King over the entire cosmos.。
He control everything.。
Now, that's what it means。
when the Bible talks about Shabbat.。
It doesn't really,。
it means more than we imitating God,。
'cause God works six days in one day, right?。
Six in one, six in one.。
It's more than imitation,。
but it's more on participation.。
We can participate, we can join.。
Or live under God's control.。
So we set apart one day a week to worship,。
because we know the universe, your universe, your world,。
is not controlled by you.。
It's by the one who created all things.。
That's what worship is all about, right?。
That's what worship is all about.。
Worship meaning we know we are not in control.。
We are not the ultimate operator of our lives.。
There's one who is Lord of all, right?。
Who is the God of all.。
He is involved in everything that you do.。
So one day in seven days,。
to be set apart in order to give Him honor,。
to tell Him, "Yes, you are the Lord who control my lives.。
You are the Lord who controls my career.。
You are the Lord who controls my future.。
I participate in your kinship.。
I participate in your worship.。
You are everything, and I want to do your will."。
Right?。
That's what worship is all about.。
You come in here to join our worship.。
It's not just going through some motions,。
you know, joining a program.。
It's to look upon God Himself.。
He is the one who set up everything,。
and He's the one who is in the ultimate control, right?。
Let me close by giving you some suggestions。
how to practice Shabbat.。
How do you practice Shabbat?。
You know, I tell you, I do that all the time too.。
Most of the people assume。
that I go to church because of work, right?。
Yeah, yeah, I work, right?。
But you know, some people would come to me,。
"Oh, pastor, do you really have your Shabbat?。
Because you come here to work, right?"。
And I want to tell you, it's not really work for me.。
Seriously, it's worship.。
I relate to God.。
Yes, I do some work, right?。
I do some preparation.。
You too do.。
You need to do some preparation too, right?。
So I come here, I really enjoy the worship service.。
So I come with a mentality, with an attitude。
that I'm not here to just output.。
I'm getting some input too.。
When I worship with the people of God together,。
you know, my spirit is refreshed。
because I draw closer to God.。
With that kind of attitude,。
this is how we practice Shabbat, right?。
Well, you know, let me explain.。
In the Old Testament, it's the seventh day of the week.。
In the New Testament, it's the first day of the week,。
Sunday.。
Why?。
Why?。
Because the real work, the real creation is in Jesus Christ.。
He rose again from the dead on the third day.。
He died on Friday, on the third day, on Sunday,。
the first day of the week.。
That's why in the New Testament,。
you always see the phrase, first day of the week.。
Jesus rose from the dead.。
First day of the week, they collect offering.。
They worship together.。
First day of the week.。
This is the weekly example.。
Now again, I come to church.。
I'm not here just working.。
I'm here to enjoy and I am here to get closer to God。
because I know this is the time that is sacred.。
This is a time that is set apart。
from all these other things that I did in the past six days.。
It's a sacred time.。
It's a holy time.。
Sanctified.。
I spend time with God in the worship service.。
So let me suggest to you,。
one thing is to adjust your mentality。
when you walk into a worship service.。
To stop your work.。
Stop checking your phone.。
Stop thinking about the stock market.。
Stop thinking about your career.。
Yeah, I know it's been stressful.。
I know it's been stressful, you know,。
being more than men and women.。
There were a lot of things that we wanna do.。
And sometimes we treat the Shabbat,。
the one day of the week, as our extension.。
Oh, for six days I have so much work.。
And then I spill over to the seventh day, right?。
Oh, I'd rather not go to observe it.。
I want another day to finish my work, right?。
I want another day to earn some more money, right?。
I want another day to increase my income, right?。
I mean, what other time do I have?。
I have six days of work, right?。
And then the seventh day,。
I better use it for my own purposes, right?。
I wanna earn some money.。
Now, Shabbat is a spiritual discipline, right?。
Well, ask yourself, when do you have enough money?。
When will you have enough money?。
When will you have enough salary?。
When?。
How much is enough?。
(laughs)。
When is enough is enough?。
It's never enough, right?。
You never stop.。
So Shabbat is to stop, to cease, cease our work,。
and know that God is the God of all.。
He's the God of my finance.。
He controls my finance, He controls my money.。
He controls my time, therefore.。
And I wanna set this time apart as a sacred time.。
That's a weekly Shabbat.。
So let me challenge you, let me invite you.。
Come to the worship service with your heart fully prepared,。
fully prepared for worship, right?。
Well, learn from our worship team.。
They always come early, so much early,。
as early as they can in order to prepare, right?。
In order to prepare the worship service。
for other people, for all of us.。
We come early because we wanna set apart this time as sacred.。
Then secondly, I wanna invite you。
to do a little Shabbat every day, a little Shabbat.。
Many, many years ago, probably 500 years ago,。
there was a guy called Brother Lawrence.。
Now, Brother Lawrence was in Europe at that time,。
and he was a monk, a little monk in the monastery.。
The monastery has a lot of people.。
Has a lot of people who wanna be priests。
or wanna be pastors in the monasteries.。
And Brother Lawrence was working。
in the kitchen of the monastery.。
And he wrote a little book, "In the Presence of God,"。
or "Practice the Presence of God."。
Now, that little book, he shared his secret。
of how to live in the presence of God every day,。
no matter what I do.。
And his secret is, when he was struggling。
with his relationship with God,。
he find himself sometimes distant from God himself.。
So he figured out some way to keep himself。
in the presence of God.。
So this is what he did.。
Every day he was in the kitchen doing dishes,。
very mundane work.。
But he find the secret is, whenever he has time,。
he would do a little prayer.。
And that little prayer is very simple.。
It's like, "God, I wanna do this for your sake.。
"And God, I wanna do it for your honor, and help me."。
It's just that simple prayer.。
So he start his work in the morning,。
pray that prayer.。
And then he find that it's helpful for him。
to be aware that he is doing everything。
and living in the presence of God.。
And then he increase it by doing that prayer at noon,。
and then in the afternoon.。
And then pretty much it becomes his second nature,。
that whenever he does the dishes,。
whenever he mopping the floor,。
he will pray to God silently, quietly,。
and pray that, "God, I wanna live in your presence.。
"I wanna do this for your honor."。
That book, that secret,。
became one of the Christian classics.。
Everyone finds it helpful.。
Find rest in every single moment that you can in your day.。
Even when you're driving,。
even when you're doing your work,。
pray that little prayer,。
and pray that, "God, I wanna live in your presence.。
"Help me to be faithful.。
"Help me to love you more."。
No matter what you do, changing diapers,。
mopping the floor, doing some mundane work,。
you can live in the presence of God.。
So I wanna invite you to be more faithful,。
to really enjoy this sacred time,。
one day a week, first day of week.。
It's not just coming here to follow the motions。
and follow the program,。
but you really come to God himself.。
And secondly, on your daily basis, around the clock,。
starting tomorrow, Monday,。
do the little prayers.。
Live in the presence of God, right?。
Knowing that God is always there with you.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we wanna give you thanks。
for the fact that you are ever-present,。
the fact that you are everywhere.。
You are in the world.。
You are especially in our heart.。
And thank you, Jesus, for your cross,。
for the empty tomb that we can be called。
your sons and daughters.。
Now pray that we will learn how to do Shabbat.。
We'll learn every single day how to stop。
and to think about you, stop and pray to you.。
And help us to learn how to worship you,。
one day a week, to cease our works of the six days。
and to draw closer to you.。
And I pray that we wanna give you thanks。
for such a rhythm that you have set up in our life。
so that we will run in your order,。
we'll follow your order.。
And God, be with us and be present with us。
so that we'll grow in our relationship with you.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Well, I'll see you next week, the next Shabbat.。
