of God. And today, as we get together to worship together, I would like to share a few words。
with you. And the title of the sermon is "Following God in Tough Times." We're going to turn。
to the book of Job, chapter 1. If you have your Bible with you, please turn to your Bible,。
to the book of Job, which is found at the very middle of the Bible. Now, we are living。
in a tough time. The pandemic has entered the third year with no end in sight. We are。
having bad times whenever we are suffering, whenever we are not feeling good about what。
is happening in our lives. We sometimes think of the poor Job. We turn to the book of Job.。
Sometimes we want to find some wisdom. Job talks about something that is universal for。
the humanity, the universal question of human suffering. Suffering is real. I don't know。
what you are facing, but there are many facets of suffering. At least there are three areas。
we can think of about human suffering. The first one is personal suffering. Of course,。
we are all familiar with it. It comes with different forms and different kinds. Emotional。
suffering, mental challenges, loss of jobs, or you're facing the future, you find a lot。
of uncertainties, you just don't know how to cope with it. Sickness and disability of。
all kinds. These are personal suffering, and it is universal. Everyone is familiar with。
it or gets some taste of it. The second category is disasters, natural disasters. COVID is。
one of them, although it was partly caused by human failures, but it is partly also a。
natural disaster. Think of what the Americans had experienced some weeks ago because of。
tornadoes. Their families, their houses got destroyed, and they became homeless and displaced.。
These are some of the universal experiences of natural disasters. The third category is。
systemic evil. Sometimes we don't think of that, but it is so real. Think of people living。
under oppressive regimes. Churches, minorities being persecuted, human rights being taken。
away from them. This is systemic oppression. We think of all these kinds of sufferings。
as we turn to the book of Job, because poor Job suffers a lot. Chapter 1 opens with this。
verse to introduce this main character called Job. Chapter 1. In the land of Uz, there lived。
a man whose name was Job. This man was blameless and upright. He feared God and shunned evil.。
He had seven sons and three daughters. He owned a lot of things, thousands and thousands。
of oxen and donkeys, a very rich man, and a large number of servants. He was the greatest。
man among all the people of the East. That's how the Bible introduced the character Job.。
Then the book talks about how Job was a blameless man morally or ritually or in terms of worship.。
He does everything he can to make sure he feared God. He is blameless in every single。
way imaginable. Then the book of Job turns the attention to heaven. All of a sudden,。
the focus turned to heaven. Verse 6 and following. One day the angels came to present themselves。
before the Lord, and Satan also came with them. The Lord said to Satan, "Where have。
you come from?" Satan answered the Lord, "From roaming through the earth and going back and。
forth in it." Then the Lord said, "Have you considered my servant Job? There is no one。
on earth like him. He is blameless and white. He is a man who fears God and shuns evil."。
Then the conversation continues with Satan asking a question. "Does Job fear God for。
nothing?" Satan replied. "Have you not put a hat around him and his household and everything。
he has? You have blessed the work of Job's hands so that his flocks, his herds, are spread。
throughout the land. But stretch out your hand and strike everything he has. He will。
surely curse you to the face." The Lord said to Satan, "Farewell. Then everything he has。
is in your hands, but on the man himself do not lay a finger." Then Satan went out from。
the presence of the Lord.。
This story continues in the later context. It talks about disasters and suffering one。
after another fell upon the life of Job. His children died one after the other in tragedies,。
and finally he fell really, really sick. This creates many tensions for us because whenever。
we suffer or we see someone suffer, we always ask the question, "Why?" "Why did Job suffer?"。
From this very short portion of scripture from chapter 1, it seems like we can blame。
it all on Satan, blame it all on the devil because of the evil one. He is doing something。
to destroy our lives. Does that explain suffering? Does it really answer the question, "Why。
we suffer? Why did innocent suffer?" It seems not because it seems like God allowed Satan。
to bring suffering to Job. So it really doesn't address the question of why Job suffered or。
why the innocent suffered.。
Now about this character Satan, there is also something that we need to pay attention to.。
The English word translated "Satan", if you check the Hebrew behind the word, it is not。
"Satan", it is "Ha-Satan". Now in Hebrew, you don't have to be an expert to understand。
this. In Hebrew, "Ha" is a definite article, in English equivalent to "the". And "Satan",。
of course we get it from Satan, right? "Satan" originally was Hebrew. Now it simply means。
challenger or adversary, someone who opposes, someone who raises a question. Now it can。
be a good character, it can also be an evil character, it can be neutral. So remember,。
Satan as we know it from the New Testament, the evil one, the capital evil one, from the。
book of Revelation for example, Satan does not become a personal name or a personal entity。
until the time between the end of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New Testament,。
so-called intertestamental period. Satan does not exist in the mind of the ancient Israelites,。
the ancient Jews, until the intertestamental period before the New Testament. So in this。
time in the Old Testament, there is no understanding of Satan as a personal character. So "Ha-Satan"。
is actually not a personal name, that's why it's "the Satan", right? So a better translation。
could be "the challenger". So a better translation would go, "Does Job fear God for nothing,。
the challenger in the heavenly court, ask the question?" So the challenger asking a。
neutral question, perhaps not an evil one, is a question which is legitimate, because。
the challenger is asking a question, saying, "God, if you continue to give good things。
to Job, of course he will fear you, of course he will worship you. If you keep on blessing。
Job, you will ruin his motive of being good, and eventually Job will fear you only because。
of the benefits he will receive from you." So the challenge is legitimate, right? The。
challenge is really legitimate. If you think about young children, you should understand。
that. Children will behave because they want rewards from you, they want benefits from。
you. And eventually, a child will behave only for the benefits he gets from you. So the。
challenge is a valid question, is a valid concern. And what is driving the righteousness,。
the worship of Job, right? That's the essence of the question. So the challenger is questioning。
how God operates the cosmos. Some sort of a challenge to God's way or God's policy。
of managing the universe. And then, from the later context, we know God readily accepts。
the challenge. God said, "Okay, Job is in your hand. His things is in your hand. Take。
his things out. Take his things away. See if he continues to worship you." So this。
short story kicks off the rest of the entire book, a very long book, the book of Job.。
Now let's take a look at this really long book of Job. What is it all about? The first。
three chapters' introduction is the suffering of Job. They have a dialogue between Hasatan。
the opposer, the challenger, which is a legitimate challenge that he presents, and then God himself.。
First three chapters is a short introduction. And then there's cycles of cycles of cycles。
of dialogue between three friends of Job. They're debating why Job suffered. And then。
chapter 28, there's a wisdom song. And then chapter 29 to 41, another cycle of speeches.。
Job and then there's a guy who popped up called Elihu. Probably he represents the ancient。
Israel, how they see suffering, why the innocent suffer. And then lastly Yahweh, God himself,。
show up and then conclusion. Now as you can see, a big chunk of the book is conversations。
or actually debates between Job and his friends. Why does the righteous suffer? The three friends。
are saying, and they insist, that Job suffered because he has done something wrong. He has。
sinned against God. If Job is willing, the friends argue, willing to confess his wrongdoing,。
whatever that is, something you can think of or you can just make it up, just confess。
your sin, Job, and then you will be fine. Now if Job confesses his sin, the friends。
are saying, your suffering will end and you will be okay and you'll get your stuff back.。
It's very simple, it's very easy. It should be the end of conversation. But of course。
not, right? Of course not that simple because Job, in the entire chapters, in the entire。
debate, Job is saying, I am innocent. I insist that I am innocent. I do not deserve this。
kind of suffering. I do not deserve this kind of pain. So the debate prolongs and continues。
and continues. Now let's pause and ask why this prolonged。
conversation is there and what it really means. As I have told you before, the Bible is not。
written to us. It was written to the ancient audience, right, in the Near East, in the。
ancient Middle East. Now in the ancient Middle East world, people believe that their relationship。
with God or gods, the false gods, follow some sort of principle and we can summarize saying。
the principle is retribution principle. Some sort of, you know, I relate to God in this。
kind of retribution dynamic. You scratch my back and I will scratch your back. You know,。
this kind of, I will do good things and then the gods will give me good things. If I do。
something wrong, I offend the gods, then I will suffer because I did some bad things.。
So good things lead to good stuff that I will receive. Good things lead to benefits I will。
receive from the gods. If I do something bad or unintentionally I step the toes of the。
gods, then I will suffer. If that's the case, then I have to do something better,。
do something good so I can appease the gods. So many times, as you can see, even in today's。
world, in the ancient world or in the contemporary world, this kind of principle is what we assume.。
Sometimes this principle works, right. We do good things, you know, there's a good。
return. But many times, as you can tell, it doesn't work, right. We are in the midst。
of pandemic, right. We are suffering because of other people's wrongdoing, right. Because。
of other people's mistakes. That's why in the entire book, Job continues to maintain。
his sinlessness, his integrity. He even demands to interview God because he, Job himself,。
he wants to understand why he suffers. He has done nothing wrong, he said. So after。
30 some chapters, God finally shows up. He did show up and answer to Job. But the way。
he answered is very interesting. It's not really answering the question of suffering.。
It's not really trying to explain the reasons why the innocent suffer, why Job suffered.。
Let's take a look. 38 verse 1 and 4. The Lord Yahweh answered Job out of the storm. So God。
showed up. Verse 4. He asked a bunch of questions. One of the first questions is, "Where were。
you when I laid the earth's foundation? Tell me if you understand. If you're wise enough,。
tell me where were you when I created the world? Since you question my policy of running。
the universe, running the cosmos, where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth?"。
And a bunch of questions about creation, all the awesome things that God has done since。
the beginning of time. And then 38, 25. This is really interesting. It's a rhetorical question.。
It means the answer is always assumed. 25. God presents the questions. "Who cuts a channel。
for the torrents of rain and a path for the thunderstorm to water a land where no man。
lives, a desert with no one in it, to satisfy a wilderness, a wasteland, a desolate wasteland,。
and make it sprout with grass?" You see what is going on here? God is saying, "Do you。
know the principle of rain in this earth?" God is saying, "Do you even notice there are。
times when rain falls on no man's land? No one will get the benefit. No one will get。
to drink the water." And God's way of operating the universe is beyond the so-called retribution。
principle. Good things lead to good return. Good things lead to good stuff and benefits.。
And God is saying, "Take a look at the rain and the snow. Sometimes it falls on no man's。
land. No one will get the benefit." Why? Do you understand why? It's way beyond the principle。
of retribution. And then 39, 13. This is one of my favorites. Talk about the big birds.。
Talk about the ostrich. 38, 39, 13. "The wings of the ostrich flap joyfully, but they。
cannot compare with the pinions and feathers of the stork. She lays her eggs on the ground。
and lets them warm in the sand." Understandable, right? Very wise. "But unmindful that a foot。
may crush them." Sometimes the mother ostrich crushes the eggs and kills the birds, kills。
the babies. What is going on here? Sometimes a wild animal will come by and pick up the。
eggs and destroy the babies. If God creates everything out of his retribution principle,。
such things would not happen, should not happen. If God creates everything in his wisdom, we。
should be able to understand why. And this question is saying, we just don't understand。
why God would do such things. God would create stupid ostrich, right? They are so stupid.。
They are not of wisdom. And why God created them in such a way? Now all these questions。
God presents to Job is saying rhetorically, you know the answers? We just don't know.。
It's way beyond our finite wisdom. We just cannot comprehend, cannot fully understand。
the wisdom of God by which he managed the universe. And then at the end in chapter 40,。
verse 3, Job, after hearing all the questions being challenged by all these rhetorical questions,。
Job answered the Lord, "I am unworthy. How can I reply to you? I put my hand over my。
mouth. I spoke once, but I have no answer. Twice, but I will say no more." So why suffering?。
Why Job suffering? At the very end of the book, there's no answer. The book is not。
intent to help us how to think about suffering. It doesn't give reasons for suffering. It。
doesn't really, it doesn't even defend the actions of God, right? Called theodicy. Defending。
the deeds of God, why there is suffering in the world if there is a good and all powerful。
God. Why evil exists? Why suffering exists? The book of Job doesn't really give a philosophical。
analysis of the question of suffering, the question of evil. So the book is not about。
how to think about suffering. The book is about how to think about God in our suffering.。
It's not to help us think about suffering. It's to help us how to think about God in。
our suffering. The book expands our theology, expands our understanding of God. Presenting。
to us God is wise, God's wisdom is infinite. How he ordered his cosmos, how God managed。
the universe is beyond our finite mind, is beyond our comprehension. We cannot fully。
understand it. God's wisdom is higher than our wisdom. It's ultimately incomprehensible.。
When I was in seminary, one of my teachers, one of the best teachers was John Frame. Dr.。
John Frame is one of the best theologians out there. He said one thing that changed。
my way of worship since then. One of his theology classes, he said, "God is incomprehensible."。
We were studying theology. We were studying the attributes of God, the character of God.。
We always focus on God is love, God is righteous, God is truth. All those things are good and。
they are all correct and biblical. But here, Frame says, "So often we forgot that one。
of the attributes of God is incomprehensibility." God is incomprehensible. And Frame continues。
to say, "If God is incomprehensible, his incomprehensibility is incomprehensible."。
How incomprehensible God is, is way beyond our comprehension. It's incomprehensible.。
We are finite and God is infinite. God is to be trusted and his wisdom is to be trusted.。
Even though we don't know all the answers, especially the answers for the question of。
suffering, the question of evil. Now, ultimately, the book of Job doesn't really offer much。
encouragement or comfort to suffering. Now, many Psalms in the Bible do, especially Laments。
or Psalms of Confidence and all those Psalms. You go to the book of Psalms, there are many。
Psalms that help us to get encouragement and comfort in our suffering. But the book of。
Job is not designed to do that. It just doesn't cut it. The book of Job doesn't really offer。
a defense of God in the midst of suffering. There's no philosophical analysis to human。
suffering. If you approach the book with such expectations, why I suffer, why the righteous。
suffer, why are we in the pandemic? We will be disappointed because the book is not about。
how we think about suffering. The book is about how we think about God in the midst。
of suffering. How do we think about God in tough times? How do we think about him, our。
theology? That determines our life, our ethics. Theology determines ethics. How we understand。
God determines how we behave, how we live our lives.。
Now, let's go back to chapter one, the valid question presented by Hasatan, the challenger.。
Verse 9, chapter 1. Does Job fear God for nothing? It's a valid concern, it's a valid。
question. The question is how we think about ourselves, how we relate to God in our suffering.。
Do you worship God because you get benefits from him? Does Job worship God, fear God for。
the benefits that he has? Or he really worships God and fears God for nothing, not for his。
own benefit? Is there something called disinterest righteousness, disinterest faith goodness。
that is not concerned by our own benefits, the good things that we can get? Does Job。
worship God because he gets the benefits from doing so? Does Job worship God only when he。
experiences prosperity, blessing from God? Is Job's righteousness really disinterest?。
Does Job worship God no matter what, good times or bad times? That is the most important。
question we should ask. Do we follow Christ all because of the benefits that we have?。
Now, don't get me wrong, we got a lot of benefits from being in Christ, right? We believe。
in Jesus, we believe in Christ, we receive the redemption. I think there are a lot of。
benefits that we have. Eternal life, spiritual blessings, the honour and dignity for being。
children of God, the privileges to approach God directly in Christ in prayers, the will。
of God that we know from the will of God. These are all the benefits that we have from。
being in Christ. But remember this, all of these benefits are not earned by us. We don't。
deserve them. And they are freely given to us in Christ, in the cross. The book of Job,。
essentially, is not a book on suffering. Again, there are no answers to the question, why。
we suffer. The book of Job is not a book on suffering. The book of Job is a book on discipleship.。
Discipleship in the midst of tough times. The question, do you worship God, do you fear。
God for nothing? Or do you fear God because you want to get good stuff from him? When。
good stuff is taken away, we leave God alone. It's a book on discipleship. Discipleship。
in tough times. In calling us to follow Christ even in tough times, not just in good times.。
Perhaps this is the more important question we need to begin asking as we start a new。
year. Perhaps this is the most important question. Why do you worship God? Is it because of the。
benefits that you receive? That's why you follow Christ? Or if God is God, he is worthy。
of our worship no matter what. He is worthy of our attention no matter what. He is still。
the centre of our lives no matter what. Do we follow Christ even without the benefits?。
This is a question of purifying our faith. Centring our faith on Christ alone. Not on。
the good stuff that we have we get from Christ. Again there are many benefits but remember。
we don't earn them. Freely given to us in grace. But do we really worship God for nothing?。
That should be the essence of faith. God is awesome. He is worthy of our worship. Christ。
is worthy of our following, of our faith and obedience no matter what. Thick or thin. That。
is the essence of faith. This is the most important question we should ask as we celebrate。
New Year. As we start a new year. We can set a lot of goals whenever we come to New Year.。
You want to lose weight. You want to live a healthier lifestyle. You want to hit this。
goal or that goal in your career or in your school. Those are really good and worthy goals.。
But the most important question we need to ask is presented by the book of John. Do you。
fear God for nothing? Is God really worthy of your worship no matter what? I read a New。
Year's prayer written by someone anonymous. I find this prayer really meaningful and I。
would like to end today's worship by reading this prayer together. A New Year's prayer.。
May God make your year a happy one. Not by shielding you from all sorrows and pain, but。
by strengthening you to bear it as it comes. Not by making your path easy, but by making。
you sturdy to travel any path. Not by taking hardships from you, but by taking fear out。
of your heart. Not by granting you unbroken sunshine, but by keeping your face bright。
even in the shadows. Not by making your life always pleasant, but by showing you when people。
and their causes need you most and by making you anxious to be there to help them. God's。
love, peace, hope and joy to you for the year to come. Let's all pray together.。
Dear God, you are the awesome and greatest God. You are the creator. You are everything。
and you are infinite and ultimately incomprehensible. You are worthy of our worship, worthy of our。
attention, worthy of our obedience. And God help us as we start a new year. As this prayer。
is not by praying that you take all these bad things and sickness and pandemic out of。
our lives. Of course that's a worthy prayer, but that is not the main thing. It's that。
no matter what circumstances we find ourselves in, with sorrow or with pain, with darkness。
and struggles, we pray that you will grant us faith. Grant us obedience. Help us to follow。
you no matter what. In good times or in bad times. In good times or in tough times. Help。
us to follow you faithfully and worship you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
