(speaking in foreign language)。
- All right, guys, good morning.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And as you know, I'm trying to pick out。
some of the famous Psalms in the Bible。
and to reflect upon it.。
So today I would like to turn to Psalm 133.。
And Psalm 133 is talking about a community。
of the people of God.。
Let me read that first, okay?。
Psalm 133.。
So you find some Psalms in the middle of the Bible, okay?。
In the middle of the Bible.。
If you have a phone app or a Bible app,。
maybe I can invite you to turn to it right now.。
Sometimes it's always good to search out。
the word of God ourselves, okay?。
So look into your phone or on the screen.。
This is a Psalm, Psalm 133.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
I'm gonna read in English。
and then Ken's going to read in Chinese.。
Psalm 133, a song of essence of David.。
How good and pleasant it is。
when brothers live together in unity.。
It is like precious oil poured on the head,。
running down on the beard,。
running down on Aaron's beard,。
down upon the collar of his robes.。
It is as if the dew of Hermon。
were falling on Mount Zion.。
For there the Lord bestows His blessing,。
even life forevermore.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
All right, so there are 150 Psalms in the Book of Psalms,。
but there were 15 Psalms, 15 Psalms, okay?。
120 to 134.。
They have the title of Song of Essence.。
And these are the Psalms that people use。
as they went up to Jerusalem, to Zion.。
Jerusalem is Mount Zion.。
Mount Zion is actually Jerusalem.。
To worship, when they come to Mount Zion,。
to Jerusalem to worship together.。
So these are the 15 Psalms that carry a sense of movement,。
moving like a pilgrimage, far away from Jerusalem,。
when they go toward near Jerusalem.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the first question you have to ask is,。
why is it called Song of Essence?。
You know, along with the other 14,。
you know, there are 15 Psalms, right?。
Why is it called Song of Essence?。
Essence meaning going up, because it is geography,。
geography of the Bible.。
Because Jerusalem is situated on a hill,。
it is within the hill country of the land of Canaan.。
So no matter which direction you're going to Jerusalem,。
where, which direction you're coming from,。
when you go to Jerusalem, you have to go up,。
you know, you have to go up.。
And even today, modern Israelis, when they,。
the Jewish people, when they move or immigrate。
from far land, faraway land, to back to Jerusalem,。
back to Israel, the process of immigration。
is called going up, you know, it's called going up.。
And the name for the going up,。
the process of immigration is called Aliyah.。
You know, Aliyah comes from Allah, means going up.。
So even today, the modern immigration process。
is called going up Aliyah,。
because when they go to Jerusalem,。
when they go back to Jerusalem,。
they always climb up and up and up, and they go uphill.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So in the Old Testament, when the people of God。
commanded to go to Jerusalem three times a year,。
as you can tell from here, Deuteronomy,。
one of the books, one of the five books of Moses,。
Deuteronomy chapter 16, it says, you know,。
three times you have to go to Jerusalem。
from where you live, probably you live far away。
from Jerusalem, but three times of the year,。
you have to go to Jerusalem.。
And when you go there, listen to the words here,。
three times a year, all your men,。
of course, men are the representatives of the family,。
and with the, you know, female and all the children,。
all of you guys must appear before the Lord your God。
at the place he will choose, which is Jerusalem eventually,。
at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is Passover,。
the Feast of Weeks, which is Pentecost,。
and the Feast of Tabernacles, Sukkot.。
And no man, no one should appear before the Lord。
when you worship empty-handed,。
and each of you must bring a gift in proportion。
to the way the Lord your God has blessed you.。
So three times of the year, they have to go up there。
as one people.。
Now, even though they're Jewish people,。
they were divided into 12 tribes.。
Those are their tribal identities,。
and sometimes it's very, very precious to them.。
It's a source of pride for them.。
But three times of the year,。
they have to make a journey, annual journey,。
and that's a special journey.。
You have to lay aside your own local identity,。
and you have to come before the Lord。
at one place, the place that God has chosen,。
and to be the people of God worshiping.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
,。
so these Psalms, 15 Psalms of Ascension,。
are likely passed down as songs。
that used from generation to generation。
when they go up to Jerusalem,。
when they are on their way to Jerusalem to worship.。
So they will sing this song,。
and probably resting on the road, in the Airbnb,。
or walking together, hiking together,。
and the destination is Jerusalem.。
And after arriving at Jerusalem,。
when the crowd of people are crowding the city,。
they probably will use this Psalm,。
Psalms of Ascension, to worship God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So I would like to take verse one,。
and verse by verse,。
and we're gonna look at this Psalm together.。
Verse one, it says, "How good and pleasant,。
how good and beautiful it is,。
where brothers," of course, including sisters,。
"live together in unity."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then the Psalm in here, verse one,。
begins with some exclamation, you know,。
the exclamation mark.。
There were three of them, can you find it?。
"Behold, look, how," you know?。
And then, "How good and how pleasant,"。
you know, there are three times the psalmist。
trying to say, "Wow, you know, how precious。
and how beautiful it is when people are gathered together."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then, you know, I don't care how many people here,。
but, you know, as we gather together,。
you know, two or three, you say,。
with the psalmist, and say, "Wow," right?。
"How good it is to gather together."。
Okay, so the double how here,。
how good and how pleasant, is pretty rare.。
One example I can find is from,。
from the, let's see, I don't have it on screen,。
but one example is from Song of Songs, chapter seven,。
where the couple are praising each other,。
and the partner is saying to the other partner,。
and saying, "How beautiful you are,。
and how pleasant you are."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, you know, we try to do some imagination here.。
When you turn to your neighbor,。
let's say now you turn to a neighbor,。
either front or back, or left or right,。
you say, you know, "You are handsome," you know,。
"or you are so beautiful."。
You know, I don't want you to do it now,。
but, you know, imagine, you know,。
if someone, I thought, turned to Ken,。
and say, "Dude, you are so handsome."。
- Thank you.。
(laughing)。
- That is the feeling you try to get, all right?。
You are amazing, or you are absolutely stunning, you know?。
So this song is trying to, you know,。
talk to us, or invite us into this kind of emotions.。
It's not romantic love, but it's something really pleasant,。
something really, really good.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And this is talking about God's people gathering in worship,。
worshiping the same Lord.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then here, translated unity,。
is actually coming from Hebrew word, Yahal.。
And Yahal means, you know, something together,。
the togetherness, you know, standing together,。
working together, moving as one body.。
You know, in the time of,。
in time between Old Testament and New Testament,。
there was a community of Jewish people。
called Qumran community.。
And they, the guys who wrote the Deathly Scroll,。
you heard about that?。
Deathly Scroll, it's from, come from their hands.。
And this Qumran community, Jewish community,。
they left Jerusalem because Jerusalem was corrupt,。
and they moved to the wilderness.。
And they described their own group as a community of Yahal.。
And that means there was a shared purpose。
and shared destination, and they worshiped God together.。
That's a Yahal.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then the Psalm says, "How good it is."。
And that is a very frequent word in the Bible.。
And do you remember the Bible first mentioned。
something is good?。
Where do you find it?。
Exactly, Genesis chapter one.。
God is good.。
And then the Bible says, "How good it is."。
And that is a very frequent word in the Bible.。
And do you remember the Bible first mentioned。
something is good?。
God created the entire world, the entire cosmos,。
and repeatedly God says, "It is good."。
And at the end, he says, "Very, very good."。
Six days of creating and setting up the cosmos。
in Genesis one, and God creates and call it good.。
And then the first time God says, "Not good,"。
where do you find it?。
Genesis two, right?。
Remember that?。
When God saw Adam, the humanity, living alone,。
God says, "It is not good for humanity to be alone.。
"Not good for man to be alone."。
So in creation, God turns something not good into good。
because he set up the cosmos, and then chapter two,。
he set up a community for mankind.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Good.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, just a matter of illustration.。
If you wanna keep a fire going, keep a fire burning,。
keep the flame burning,。
if you wanna want a fire to burn strongly,。
you wanna keep all the wood pieces together, right?。
Together.。
When they burn together, then you will see a bigger fire.。
But if you take one of the stick out and put it aside,。
throw it aside, then the stick itself,。
while it was burning, you can throw it aside,。
and then it will go out pretty quickly.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
See, the fire with the wood burning together。
illustrates our lives as the people of God.。
We need to burn and come together to encourage one another。
so that it will not go out by itself.。
So notice the Psalm does not say,。
okay, the people are perfect,。
and that's why it is so good for them to get together.。
It's not talking about we are unusually holy.。
You know, we are not holy.。
We are sinful.。
However, from God's eyes, it is beautiful,。
it is good for brother and sisters,。
for his people to gather together.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So something that is good, and we need to see it。
from God's sight.。
Verse two, it says, "It is like precious olive oil。
poured on the head, running down on the beer,。
running down on Aaron's beer,。
down upon his collar to his robes."。
You know, verse two.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
This imagery may not sound appealing to us。
as modern people, all right?。
It sounds messy, it looks messy,。
but you know, you can see, you know,。
the oil pouring down on Aaron, you know,。
is in abundance, right?。
So you need to ask the question,。
as you look at verse two, every community,。
every group of people has some representatives,。
some representative leaders.。
Sometimes it is a famous person you grew up,。
you know, admitting someone, even you don't know her。
or you don't know him, but you know,。
you feel like, oh, they represent you.。
Maybe an artist, maybe a cultural icon.。
If they do well and I do well, right?。
And kind of like last night,。
did you see the football game last night?。
Yeah, right?。
Right, did you see it?。
It's very good to see it, right?。
It's the dramatic turnaround for Bears.。
And you know, I see today when I show up at church,。
I see people are happy.。
We haven't felt happy for a long time, right?。
Chicago people.。
Anyways, so we have our own representatives.。
And you know, in the Old Testament, in Israel,。
the representative figure was the high priest Aaron.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So when you trace the story of the Bible。
from the Old Testament,。
when the people of Israel came out of Egypt,。
they arrived at Mount Sinai and they received the law。
and then the tabernacle was first established。
in the wilderness because God wanted to dwell within them.。
And Moses anointed the tabernacle and his furniture。
and all the items and set up.。
And the climax comes to anointing the high priest Aaron。
so that he can represent the whole people of God Israel。
to serve God together.。
So in the book of Leviticus, it says,。
Moses was pouring anointing olive oil on the head of Aaron。
and to anoint him to consecrate him.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And that was the most sacred moment of the entire Bible.。
And even says that, you know, the glory of God, you know,。
shines from the tabernacle and consume the offering。
on the altar and the people shout out loud。
and fell on their faces and they worship God together.。
That was the sacred moment of the Old Testament.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
, and you can imagine that was a sacred,。
the most precious moment of all time in the Bible.。
But Psalm 133 turns it around a little bit.。
It says the kind of holiness, sacredness。
is actually present when the people of God are united.。
When they go up together to Jerusalem。
to worship God together, it's the togetherness。
that is sacred.。
It's just like, it is kind of like the first anointing。
of the high priest Aaron,。
when the glory of God finally comes.。
You know, it comes not because someone's being anointed.。
It comes, the glory of God shines for。
when the people of God are united。
and worshiping God together.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And the songs of ascent are probably, you know,。
collected and shaped together during the exile。
of the people.。
And when the people of Israel,。
when the Jewish people had no political power。
and they were scattered around the world,。
yet even then, the gatherness of worship,。
when the people coming together to worship,。
the Psalm says, the worship, gathering worship itself。
is a sacred, holy thing.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
You know, I have been growing up in the church。
for decades, for decades.。
Oh man, I'm getting old.。
And the church is never perfect.。
The church is never perfect.。
And sometimes, you know, in my experience of the church,。
the church can break my heart.。
The church can hurt me and disappoint me.。
You know, I must say with a disclaimer,。
I must include myself, you know.。
I disappoint someone else.。
I break someone's heart.。
You know, I have to include myself.。
The church is not perfect.。
But, you know, along the years,。
I have never given up on the church.。
Never given up on the church.。
It's not because the church is perfect.。
It's not because church is always a happy place.。
But because I understand the church is the very plan of God.。
As long as God is God, God's church will remain.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So I understand my identity as the member of the church.。
I have a calling.。
And the calling is a sacred calling.。
It is a community Christ purchased。
with His blood and His sacrifice.。
It's not because of me.。
It's because of what Christ has done.。
And He redeemed a people and called it the church,。
called it His body.。
And the church belongs to Christ Jesus.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So verse three here, not only the gathering of the people,。
the church is sacred.。
Not because we're perfect,。
but what God's grace has done and make it sacred.。
Verse three, it says,。
"It is as if the gathering of people worshiping together,。
as if the two of Hermon, Mount Hermon,。
were falling on Mount Zion, Jerusalem.。
For there the Lord bestows His blessing,。
even life forevermore."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now this is the second image of the Psalm.。
No, the first one is the anointing of the high priest Aaron.。
The second images here is a geographical image.。
You know, when people are united,。
it is like two of Mount Hermon falling on Mount Zion.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now Mount Hermon is the highest mountain。
in the land of Israel.。
It is about 9,000 feet tall.。
And it is sometimes called the Snow-Capped Mountain。
or Gray-Haired Mountain.。
You know why?。
Because the mountain is so elevated。
and it's always capped by snow.。
In much of the year, it's a snow-capped mountain.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
In the land of Palestine,。
from April, around April, May to October,。
that is the hot and dry summer.。
And there is very little rain, no rain at all.。
And everything is dry and the ground,。
the soil becomes dry and the crops can die。
unless one thing happen.。
And that is the morning moisture.。
You know, when you wake up very early in the morning,。
you look at your yard, right?。
There's a layer of moisture.。
And because of that, because the mist, the dew,。
that bring water to the soil and to sustain us.。
That is life, the dew is life.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So in the imagination of the Psalm,。
it says when the dew of Mount Hermon,。
the highest mountain, the Snow-Capped Mountain,。
comes upon the land and even riches Jerusalem。
and Mount Zion, you know, you get the imagery.。
It talks about life-giving, refreshment,。
you know, fertility and life.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So, you know, when we get together,。
when the people of God get together,。
worship God together, it's kind of like a first taste,。
you know, it's like the appetizer。
of what heaven is like, what eternal life is like.。
You know, when we get together to worship,。
to love God together, we will taste。
what eternal life is all about.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, you remember toward the end of last year,。
we had a baptism here, right?。
And three people got baptized from our congregation.。
And at baptism, sometimes we recite the Apostles' Creed.。
Remember that, Apostles' Creed?。
And Apostles' Creed is a summary of faith。
and the Creed has many different articles。
to summarize the most basic elements of Christian faith.。
And we call them Apostles' Creed.。
And there's a summary and it mentions, as you can tell,。
it mentions the church twice.。
It says, "I believe the Holy Catholic Church。
"and I believe the chameleon of saints."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
See, the article says, "I believe in Catholic Church."。
Most of the modern people, when we heard the word Catholic,。
we immediately think of the Roman Catholic Church, right?。
Catholicism.。
No, that's not what Apostles' Creed means.。
It says Catholic because the word Catholic。
actually means universal, worldwide church.。
And I believe God's will is to set up the Catholic Church,。
which is universal church.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
See, we, as Christians, we profess the name of Jesus.。
We belong to that Catholic Church,。
that one worldwide church.。
And also, another article, it says,。
"The chameleon of saints that I believe."。
Now, what does it mean?。
What does it mean?。
It means all Christians, chameleon,。
we share something together.。
We're united to Christ,。
and therefore we are connected somehow with each other.。
It's like you, you know,。
how many of you like going hiking?。
How many of you?。
No?。
Oh my God.。
Okay, all right, only a few.。
It's like you go on hiking, on a hiking trail, you know,。
and then you go from your starting point,。
and then you have a destination to go to, right?。
And then along the trail, along the path,。
and then you meet some people on the way, right?。
Maybe you'll meet some people。
going in a different direction, you know?。
They eventually will go to a different destination.。
Now, you don't have much to share with them.。
However, if you, on the trip,。
you meet some people going to the same destination,。
and then that was the moment you go,。
aha, you know, I'm going to that destination,。
and you are going to that destination too.。
And that's why we are on the way together.。
When you meet some people going to the same destination,。
you find that, okay,。
you have so much more to share with them.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So it says, we believe the chameleon,。
the connectedness, togetherness of saints.。
Now, the word saints means all Christians.。
It does not mean that we are holy.。
We're not holy, we're not perfect, right?。
But we are saints somehow in Christ。
because Christ made us holy and righteous,。
all because Christ has done.。
So chameleon means we have shared life.。
Chameleon means we have fellowship,。
and we share one faith, we share one worship,。
and we share one salvation.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And together we take this psalm,。
and I have some applications for us.。
I think the first application from Psalm 133 is,。
thank God for other Christians,。
for other brothers and sisters, right?。
I would say to God, dear God, thank you。
that I am not alone, I'm not alone hiking.。
I'm with other people.。
Thank God for brother and sister who pray for me,。
who are being with me, who are walking alongside me,。
encourage me, and just have shared life with me.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Secondly, we should thank God that, you know,。
I am actually part of God's people.。
You know, thank God that, you know,。
God did not save me as an individual alone.。
God does not save me as one person.。
He placed me into his family.。
He placed me into his big church,。
the church, the people of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And number three, I think the application from the psalm。
is that we need to invest time.。
It is good to invest time to learn about。
and to remember the stories of other people, right?。
Introduce yourself, you know, get to know each other,。
not only the name, but, you know, at least,。
we need to hear one another's stories.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then number four, it is good and pleasant.。
How good it is to invest your heart and your energy。
in relationship with each other,。
enjoy the fellowship, to set aside time,。
prioritize our time and energy,。
to come together, to join together, and to grow together.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So one little application at the end of the service。
will be that if we dismiss you guys,。
today, you need to do one thing, okay?。
Do one thing.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Right after service, you shake hand with someone.。
Shake hand with someone.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then you say, "I'm going to shake hands with you."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then you say, "Thank God for you."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Even though you don't like that person.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Or you like that person, you know, shake hand,。
and you know, pat on the shoulder,。
and say, "Thank God for you."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
All right, let's pray together.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Dear Father God, thank you,。
because you set up the church in grace.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Not because we are perfect.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But Christ has offered his sacrifice,。
perfect sacrifice for us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And thank you, we are part of the church.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And help us to love each other and to grow together.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
In Christ's name we pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Amen.。
Amen.。
So you're dismissed and you're loved,。
and make sure you do that little homework today, okay?。
At this moment, all right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Yeah, you know, I may not like you,。
but you know, thank God for you.。
(laughing)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, let's do that.。
Let's stand up and shake hands and bless each other.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Thank God for you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
