Alright guys, good morning.。
Well why don't we take a time to say hi to your neighbor.。
There are a few neighbors around you and just say hi and good to see you.。
Okay?。
Turn around.。
Okay, so today we will continue our series on the mission of God.。
Alright?。
I think I need some help with the PowerPoint.。
Please.。
Okay?。
Now, as we come to the church, this is our 10th anniversary.。
This is our year number 10.。
And we're going to celebrate and work together for the church.。
Okay?。
Our series is on NEXT.。
And we're going to challenge and remind you to go NEXT in your life.。
So last time when you were here when I preached on this series, you should have picked up。
a jar like this.。
Right?。
And inside is a bunch of sand.。
And it reminds us the promises to Abraham from God.。
And we are part of the children of Abraham actually in Christ.。
And today if you're new, you can pick up one of these jars and you can bring it home.。
If you already have one of these jars and you're going to put it in somewhere that will。
remind you every single day.。
So throughout the whole year, we're going to add some items into the jar.。
So today we're going to add another piece into the jar.。
Let me begin with this picture.。
It's called stained glass window.。
Right?。
Stained glass window.。
Now classical church buildings all have stained glass window and this tradition goes back。
to many, many years ago to the 12th century actually.。
And when there was a profound insight into the symbol of God as light.。
So whoever that, who has that insight is a theologian.。
He replaced the entire wall of the church with stained glass window so that sunlight,。
natural light can come through and shine on us.。
And each of the pieces, each of the pieces in the stained glass window is a craft by。
a craftsman and they set together and the result of is a masterpiece of a beautiful。
work and each piece is limited.。
However, every piece come together, it will become a whole more beautiful picture.。
And the story we're reading today from the book of Genesis, remind us this fact that。
God is the craftsman and he collect all the broken pieces, broken lives and to form a。
picture that will bless the whole world.。
And last time we saw that God has made a promise to Abraham, the father of God's people in。
Genesis 12, 1 to 3.。
Let me read the last phrase, which is most important is that God promises Abraham that。
he will make him to be a blessing and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you.。
And the plan of God is universal as you can see is to bless every tribe and nation through。
one single guy, one single family.。
And last time we focus on the personal weaknesses, failures of Abraham and today we're going。
to zoom out to see what kind of family is coming out of Abraham, the chosen family.。
And as you can tell from this simple outline that after Abraham, there were three kinds。
of generations, Isaac and Jacob and Joseph and the brothers.。
And these three family generations are all actually broken families.。
So number one is Isaac, Rebekah, I mean, Isaac, Rebekah versus Esau and Jacob.。
And as you know from the story, if you are kind of familiar with the Bible story, especially。
the patriarchs, Isaac loved Esau, right?。
The firstborn son, because he loved the game, right?。
He loved the game and Esau was kind of a hunter and the love of father is determined by appetite,。
right?。
By his stomach and Rebekah plot to deceive the blind Isaac at the end and Jacob, the。
younger son stole the blessing and Esau was enraged and Jacob fled to exile for 20 years。
and the family entrusted with blessing to the nations, they were shattered in the very。
first generation.。
So as you can see from the story of the first generation, they are all broken.。
The second generation starting with Jacob and his wives and concubine, the wives are。
Leah and Rachel and they compete for the favor of Jacob and each sending their own maidservants。
to bear more children because more children you get more inheritance.。
And then the 12 tribes of Israel were born out of jealousy.。
So the second generation of the patriarchs actually pretty broken, right?。
And then we come to the third generation which is Joseph and the brothers and Jacob repeat。
the same sin.。
He favors one of his sons, his younger son Joseph and give him the clove of many colors.。
So in Genesis 37, verse 4 it says when the brothers saw that his father, their father。
loved Joseph more than any of them and they hated him and could not speak a kind word。
to him.。
And the Hebrew word behind the kind word is actually shalom.。
As you can tell even modern Jewish people they say hi to each other, they don't say。
how are you, they say what?。
They say shalom, right?。
They say shalom.。
So you see the brothers hated Joseph so much that they can't even greet him and they can't。
even say shalom to him.。
So here the brother could not and would not say hi to him.。
The hatred went so deep and they could not even manage to greet him.。
And then all the rest of the story talk about the brothers, the elder brothers fought against。
one another to be the number one in the family.。
You see Reuben is the first born, is the son of Leah and he after the death of Rachel he。
slept with Bilhah which is who is the maid servant of Rachel and that is kind of the。
act of political power grab and attack on Rachel's family and her sons and trying to。
strip the and at the end of the story Jacob stripped him from his birthright.。
And then some of the story tells what happened to son number two and three Simeon and Levi.。
They used the rules of circumcision to massacre the men in Shechem and Jacob cursed their。
violence.。
And then son number four named Judah he proposed to sell Joseph to Egypt and he kind of dressed。
it up in a nicer way but you know in essence he's trying to illuminate a rival in the family.。
And then the brothers, the other brothers flew Joseph into the pit and they what did。
they do?。
They sat down to eat, they sat down to have lunch and they sold him for twenty pieces。
of silver and they bought the coat to the father to deceive him that Joseph is dead.。
So from Genesis we get the bits and pieces from the long story you can tell you know。
these are the stories of the founding fathers of the people of God.。
And I always tell people you know the stories in the Bible are rated R.。
The stories are actually not for children to read.。
And we have to ask the question you know why did the author of Genesis focus on these kind。
of stories instead of telling the glorious moments he chose stories of deception, betrayal。
and murder even.。
And we have to ask the question why?。
So often we read the Bible as a moral book and we ask the question okay he picked all。
this you know dark sides of the people and perhaps maybe a moral warning to the reader.。
But you know if we turn Genesis into a morality textbook then we miss the whole point and。
the whole point asks different question.。
It's not a moral example story.。
It is who is God behind all of this.。
So the Bible is not so much of a moral book.。
It is a theological book.。
And perhaps the second question is more important because it's theological question is asking。
who is God.。
Now you ask yourself with all those founding fathers that are shattered and they're broken。
if you were God if you were God you kind of look at the disaster of the family and what。
would you do right?。
What would you do if you were God?。
Alright in the ancient near east actually the answer was pretty clear because you look。
at the pagan religion the gods would destroy they would destroy the people if they make。
troubles so violence is kind of the normal norm to deal with you know rebellions.。
But as you can tell from the book of Genesis the God of the Bible is completely different.。
He does not abandon the sinners he chooses the harder way the higher way which is take。
the broken pieces take the broken lives and set them into his picture so that his light。
will shine through to bless the nations.。
So toward the end of the book of Genesis Joseph was being sold into Egypt for 13 years he。
was accused and he was being forgotten then Pharaoh had a dream and then Joseph was called。
to interpret it and he interpreted the dream as seven years of plenty and seven years of。
famine and Joseph eventually became the prime minister of Egypt.。
As you can see from this verses from chapter 41 verse 57 what happened was that all the。
world the people were coming to Joseph coming to Egypt to buy grain because the famine was。
so severe.。
And do you see that Genesis 12 we were in part one I talk about this is quietly becoming。
true not because the patriarchs or the founding fathers were better people they were not they。
were evil people but because of the promise of God was unbreakable.。
So when the brothers reconciled with Joseph at the moment of recognition Joseph said something。
like that and Genesis 45 verse 8 it says Joseph said it was not you guys who sent me here。
in Egypt but God sent me to Egypt.。
And then toward the end of the story Joseph said to the brothers you intended to harm。
me you guys you brothers intended to harm me but God intended it for good to save many。
many lives.。
Now you have to understand that God did not whitewash the sins of the brothers the evil。
was real but human evils cannot stop God's purposes his mission it cannot stop it.。
Despite the brokenness God was running an other intention simultaneously.。
So you read the stories of the founding fathers of the people of God in summary they all fell。
short of the glory of God and the people of God in the world look exactly like this they。
were weak they were fragile and they were footless and they were unimpressive.。
And you look at the church actually that is the real picture.。
But I want to quote a very ancient document for almost 500 years old document it's called。
Belgic confession.。
In this Belgic confession written in 1561 article 27 it says it says something about。
the church.。
He said the church has existed from the very beginning of the world and will be to the。
end it will exist to the end for Christ is the eternal King who cannot be without subjects。
right as long as Christ exists church exists.。
So this holy church is preserved by God against the fury of the whole world although for a。
while now right now for a while it may look very small and extinct in the eyes of men.。
That's the patriarch family of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and Joseph and that is so often sadly。
the picture of the church.。
Now you come back to the original picture I show you the picture of stained glass no。
single piece of stained glass can complete the whole picture on its own and that is what。
the founding fathers the patriarchal family look like and that is what we look like most。
of the time but the patriarchal stories from Genesis leave us with this uncomfortable reminder.。
And we read the stories from the Bible again it's rated out stories and we shake our heads。
we shake our heads because Jacob was evil guy and Judah sell his brothers to illuminate。
him and the biggest problem in the stories of patriarch is not simply that they wrecked。
the plan of God the biggest problem is that their attitude is I don't care attitude.。
See Esau sold his birthright to Jacob for a bowl of stew because he doesn't care right。
he doesn't care about the plan of God not because he was evil it's just because he didn't。
care at all.。
And the brothers of Joseph thrown him into the pit and they sat down to do what they。
sat down to eat right they sat down to eat that is the attitude of not caring at all。
and that is most frightening because it's a bystander mentality I just want to stand。
on the side and I don't participate I don't care and that is the fatal wound for the people。
of God fatal wound for the church.。
Maybe we are doing this you never pray for the church and you never care right you have。
this attitude I don't care you know the plan of God the glory of God I don't care.。
There are three invitations today as you leave as I told you you pick up a piece of puzzle。
and you are going to place it in the jar that you got from last time and this piece please。
you know be a reminder to you that you need every piece around you no piece can complete。
the picture you need other pieces to join together every piece has its own place including。
you yourself including you in your brokenness in your incompleteness right now.。
And I think the first invitation is humility you know go back to the illustration you know。
go back to the stories of Genesis God you know that's a wrong attitude to say that God。
can only use me once I'm good enough because I'm not good enough God is not going to use。
me you know from the book of Genesis God is never waiting for the perfect person to use.。
And God knows you are not perfect God knows you are broken but God can still use you it's。
not because you are better because God is great.。
Now the second reminder is to wake up is kind of awakening.。
So you ask yourself this you know kind of cosmic question have I been watching the word。
of God from the sidelines?。
You know the mission of the church the needs of the people around me have I ever said you。
know I have nothing to do with them.。
And we need to repent from them.。
And thirdly is the invitation to participate in the plan of God.。
You know I am this broken piece am I willing to place myself this broken piece into the。
hands of the craftsman God himself not waiting on the sideline until I get good enough but。
right now with all the cracks and all the incompleteness I'm going to hand myself and。
trust myself to God because the whole picture God is putting together is not about one piece。
it's all the pieces together the whole picture of the grace of God and the power of God and。
glory of God and you are part small part of that big picture.。
So at the end of the sermon I want to take some time some quiet time so that you can。
talk to God.。
I'm sure you have been to church more than one time.。
And I'm sure God has spoken to you.。
You know you can ignore the voice of God.。
You can silence the voice of God inside of you.。
But God is still speaking to you.。
And it's an invitation for you to come be humble and be awakened and to participate.。
While the music is playing let's spend a couple of minutes and you talk to God yourself。
right here right now.。
Let's all pray.。
(Praying in Chinese) Let's all pray.。
(Praying in Chinese) Dear Lord we are broken pieces.。
We are cracked and we are fall and not enough on our own.。
But you dear God you are the craftsman.。
And you never discard what is broken.。
Take us please.。
And set us into your picture.。
Let your light shine through.。
And with open hands we are yours.。
In Jesus name.。
Amen.。
What the invitation is for you.。
