All right, guys, we will continue our series on worship.。
And remember we read and studied Psalm 8.。
Remember that?。
Psalm 8?。
No?。
Okay, you guys need to improve, okay, in your learning.。
Okay, Psalm 8, I know you know, right?。
I know you know.。
Psalm 8 is a creation psalm,。
and teaches us how to worship God.。
And last time, in this series,。
we were at Genesis 2, one and two,。
and we were talking about the Garden of Eden, right?。
And we say Eden is like a sanctuary,。
it's like a temple, right?。
Where is the entrance facing?。
Which direction?。
Yes, east, yeah, there you go.。
And who is guarding the entrance?。
Who is that guy?。
Cherubim, right?。
Cherubim, right?。
Cherubim, couple of cherubim.。
And by the way, cherubim is plural.。
So two, at least two,。
they're guarding the entrance of the sanctuary, all right?。
And Eden was like on mountaintop,。
because rivers are coming out of Eden。
to cultivate the lands nearby.。
And also, there are some wordings。
in chapter two of Genesis, or chapter three in Genesis,。
that reminds us this is a sanctuary.。
Because whenever the Bible talks about a sanctuary,。
a temple, these wordings appear.。
Three, eight, this is after the fall of humankind,。
after Adam and Eve rebelled against God.。
And it says three, eight,。
when the cool evening breezes were blowing,。
the man, humanity, representing the whole humanity,。
and his wife heard the Lord God walking about in the garden.。
Okay, so they were hiding from the Lord God。
from the tree, in the trees.。
And hear the wording, walking about, walking alongside,。
walking in the midst of them.。
That is a special vocabulary in the Bible。
that describes God's presence.。
God is walking in the midst of His people.。
And that kind of wording appears so many times。
in the Old Testament that talks about the temple。
or tabernacle or wherever you find the presence of God.。
So you can see from the opening chapters of the Bible,。
Genesis one, two, and three,。
you see worship is a main theme.。
People worship God in the presence of God.。
People can walk with God, can have fellowship with God.。
And that's what worship is all about.。
The presence of God is with His people.。
God is walking about, walking in the midst of them.。
So Eden is like a sanctuary.。
So if you have time, you can flip to,。
turn to the last chapters of the Bible.。
The last book of the Bible being,。
what's the name of the last book of Bible?。
Revelation, yes, Revelation.。
The last chapters, chapter 21, 22,。
talks about new creation.。
It talks about future, our ending.。
You know, we are heading toward that future.。
And that future is gonna be a glorious future.。
And I wanna thank George。
for preaching a very good sermon last week,。
reminding us the whole creation is going forward.。
That direction, God is gonna renew everything.。
God is going to renew the whole cosmos.。
And the theme of worship appears again.。
Like 21, three, the book of Revelation.。
John, the apostle, being lifted up into heaven,。
and he saw or he heard something that is otherworldly.。
I heard a loud shout from the throne saying,。
"Look, God's home, the home of God,。
"is now among His people."。
God's home, by the way, this is new living translation.。
I guess it's easier for most of us.。
The home of God, the presence of God, is among His people.。
He will live with them and they will be His people.。
God Himself will be with them.。
Again, that kind of wording,。
walking in the midst of them, live with them,。
dwell with them, and God will wipe every tear。
from their eyes and there will be no more death。
or sorrow or crying or pain.。
All these things are gone forever.。
Talking about the new heaven and new earth,。
the new cosmos, the new creation.。
That's where we are going.。
That's where we're looking forward to.。
That gives us hope.。
But again, if you look at the wordings here,。
worship is the goal.。
The new creation is full of worship.。
The new creation is full of worshiping God。
and living in His presence.。
So as you realize, the Bible is bookended。
by two portions, the opening chapters。
and the closing chapters, and it's all about worship.。
Bookend by the theme of worship.。
So the Bible, you read from cover to cover,。
is from worship to worship.。
Now, of course, if you trace the grand story of the Bible,。
after the fall of humankind,。
after the rebellion of Adam and Eve,。
the humankind rebelled against God,。
they lost the presence of God。
and they are kicked out from Eden, right?。
Got it?。
Kicked out from Eden.。
However, those who know God and those who believe in God,。
they continue worship.。
So these kinds of wording are going to describe。
some of those people who continue to be faithful to God,。
even though they were the minority.。
523 Genesis, Enoch.。
There's a guy called Enoch and he lived for 365 years.。
By the way, 365 is a symbolic number, okay?。
All right, he's not like a tree, all right?。
Never die, all right?。
So you have to read the Bible according to its own term.。
It's written not to us, but for us, right?。
It's written to ancient people。
and they use symbolic numbers, okay?。
But they are real numbers, okay?。
Real symbolic number, but they have some symbolic meaning.。
So Enoch lived 365 years.。
Verse 24, walking with God, right?。
In close relationship, in close fellowship with God.。
And then one day he disappeared, God took him away.。
All right, how cool is that, right?。
Anyways, and then at the end of the book of Genesis,。
when Jacob was blessing his children, all right?。
His end of, come to the end of his life。
and Jacob blessed his children.。
He blessed Joseph and said, look at how he described God.。
May the God before whom my grandfather, Abraham,。
and my father, Isaac, walked.。
He walked before them, right?。
Abraham walked before them, or walked before God.。
Isaac walked before God.。
And Jacob also walked before God.。
So these people who worship God, who are faithful to God,。
they are always described as walking with God。
and God is walking with them, right?。
So the God who has been my shepherd。
all my life to this very day, right?。
So even though mankind was being kicked out of Eden,。
kicked out of the presence of God,。
but God is still walking alongside of them。
for those who are faithful to him,。
for those who still believe in, right?。
So it's described them in such verdicts, right?。
And then we're gonna trace the Bible from the book of Genesis.。
Remember where the people of God end up。
by the end of book of Genesis?。
Where were they?。
They were not in Chicago.。
Where were they?。
They were in Egypt.。
Got it?。
All right, so many things happen,。
but they end up in Egypt for many years.。
And then some days ago, or some day later,。
God appeared to Moses.。
So you got Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, and the 12 tribes,。
and then you come to Moses.。
Many years later, Moses.。
Moses was in exile,。
and he was shepherding his flock in the wilderness。
in the book of Exodus chapter three.。
It's a long passage,。
but we're gonna take a look from the perspective of worship.。
One day, Moses was tending the flock of his father,。
and we're gonna skip to into the wilderness,。
and into where?。
He came to Sinai, right?。
You got that word?。
Sinai or Horeb, okay?。
Both referring to the same mountain,。
the mountain of God, right?。
Mountain of God.。
Again, sanctuary.。
There, the angel of the Lord appeared to Moses。
in blazing fire from the middle of a bush,。
and he stared in amazement.。
How cool is that, right?。
Because the bush was engulfed in flames,。
and it did not burn up.。
Do not come any closer, the Lord warned him.。
Take off your sandals.。
Take off your sandals,。
for you are standing on the holy ground, right?。
So this place is holy because God's presence is there.。
Take off your sandal, and I will be with you,。
and this is the sign that I'm the one who sent you,。
sent you back to Egypt to bring my people out of Egypt,。
and what's the goal?。
What is the destination?。
You will worship God in this very mountain,。
Mount Sinai, right?。
To do what?。
To worship God, right?。
So God saves his people from the land of slavery,。
from Egypt, for the purpose of serving him。
and worshiping him, and as you know,。
the book of Exodus, there were tons of things。
happened there, 10 plagues, right?。
And all this crazy thing happened,。
and God judged Pharaoh and the nation of Egypt,。
and saved his people out of Egypt.。
So they crossed the Red Sea,。
and they crossed the great and fearful wilderness,。
and they finally, they arrived at the foothill。
of what mountain?。
Mount Sinai, right?。
Mount Sinai.。
To do what?。
To worship him, right?。
God saved his people out of Egypt。
in order for them to worship him,。
and there at the foothill of the Mount Sinai,。
God gave them the 10 commandments.。
God gave them the 10 commandments,。
and the 10 commandments is kind of like。
the constitution of ancient Israel,。
just like the United States Constitution.。
Those are the basic principle, lay out 10 principles。
that how they are going to conduct their lives.。
Now they are the new people of God,。
how are they going to live?。
How are they going to live according to the principles。
God has given them?。
So that's the 10 commandments.。
And then at that moment, God told Moses,。
I'm going to live and dwell among my people.。
And the symbol I'm using so that they can see。
I'm living among them is tabernacle.。
Tabernacle, right?。
Heard that word, right?。
Tabernacle.。
What is tabernacle?。
And this is the topic of the day.。
I'm going to talk to you about tabernacle,。
and what is the tabernacle for,。
and what does it mean, right?。
So let's begin by understanding the word tabernacle.。
Okay, tabernacle.。
Various translation, but it comes from Hebrew,。
meshkan, all right?。
Tabernacle is English, of course.。
And it translates the Hebrew word meshkan, meshkan.。
And meshkan is a noun, comes from a Hebrew verb, shakan.。
So Hebrew is a very funny language.。
You add something in the front,。
or you add something at the end,。
and then it becomes another form, right?。
Here's one of the example.。
Shakan is living, dwelling, right?。
And you add an M, meshkan, right?。
Did you get it?。
Meshkan, it becomes a noun.。
Means a tent, all right?。
It means a tent.。
Living in the midst of its people.。
Is it really difficult?。
It's not that, right?。
It's not that difficult.。
So shakan and meshkan, right, sound the same,。
and that means tabernacle, right?。
God is making his tabernacle among his people, right?。
Recently I learned that there is something called cramping.。
You heard that?。
Have you ever been to camping, camping trip?。
Do you like it?。
Do you enjoy it, camping?。
Like pitching a tent, right?。
Yeah.。
And then nowadays they have this glamorous camping。
called glamping, right?。
So they sound the same, right?。
Camping and glamping, right?。
So that's what I just learned.。
You know, I didn't know that.。
I used to just go camping, right?。
And it's pretty, pretty tough。
because you have to go for a public bathroom.。
You have to share the bathroom together,。
and it's very dirty and filthy and all that, right?。
So nowadays, you know, people are so spoiled.。
We are so spoiled.。
Americans are so spoiled.。
And we invented this glamping, right?。
What is that?。
Glamorous camping.。
That means you have your own bathroom.。
You live in a container.。
It's very, very comfortable.。
There's AC, air conditioning, and all that, right?。
It's just living in, like living in a hotel, right?。
But you live in nature。
because the container is in the nature.。
So this is camping, all right?。
It's rain and very dirty, right?。
This is glamping, right?。
You know, it's a luxury kind of camping, right?。
Which one do you prefer?。
Do you prefer camping or you prefer glamping?。
Glamping, you know, you gotta pay more, right?。
What I'm saying is camping and glamping。
is like Mishkan and Shakan, right?。
They sound pretty much the same.。
But what it means is that God is pitching his tent,。
glamping, God is glamping in the midst of his people, right?。
It's a tent of God, right?。
It's the tabernacle, right?。
And in Southern Israel, there's a place, a national park,。
and you can drive there in Southern Israel, in the Negev,。
and you can visit this park and you can walk around.。
And in this park, there's a one-to-one replica。
of tabernacle, one-to-one ratio.。
As you can see right there,。
it's a rectangular shape, glamping, right?。
A tent, kind of a boundary,。
two-to-one ratio,。
rectangular boundary.。
And inside there, there's also。
an other smaller rectangular shape,。
you know, with the curtain on top.。
And then inside is a square, it's the Holy of Holies.。
So what you see here with all the curtains。
blocking off the boundary is the outer court of tabernacle.。
And inside the court of the tabernacle,。
there's another, you know, smaller rectangular shape area,。
and you can go into, it's also two-by-one,。
it's called Holy Place.。
And inside Holy Place, there's a square, perfect square,。
Holy of Holies.。
So let's walk inside, right?。
So you walk inside, you're standing inside the court,。
inside the courtyard of tabernacle,。
and you see the altar, right?。
The altar where you burn the sacrifice, right?。
Now, altar, practically speaking, is a barbecue place,。
and you burn all the sacrifices, right?。
And you also see the round thing, the round dish, right?。
You see that?。
It contains water, it's a water basin,。
and for priests to, you know, wash themselves。
and make sure they're cleansed before they enter。
or doing some rituals in the tabernacle.。
So we are in the courtyard.。
Now you wanna go inside?。
You go inside, this is a two-by-one smaller rectangular,。
and you see two guys here.。
You know, that guy leaning in the back。
should be one of the priests,。
and he was doing something here.。
And also another guy in blue robe,。
he's the high priest.。
You see the brass plate in front of him?。
There was 12 stones, right?。
So the priests, you know, they can go into the holy place.。
And then you see three different kind of furniture items.。
On the left is the menorah, all right?。
It's a seven-branch menorah, looks like a tree of life,。
looks like a tree.。
On your right is a table called the showbread table.。
So every day they would bake some new bread,。
and they can put it on the table.。
You know, that symbolize God is hosting his people, right?。
You are being invited into the home of God.。
This is the clamping home of God.。
You come in and you see on the left is light。
from the menorah, on the right is the hospitality。
provided by the king of the universe, showbread.。
In the middle of it is another order。
called the incense order.。
The incense order where they burn the incense,。
and the incense, the smoke will go up, right?。
That will represent the prayers of the people, right?。
That's the holy place.。
So being right there, right where you are standing now。
is inside the home of God himself, the tabernacle.。
And then you see the curtains?。
Those figures on the curtain, who are they?。
Who is guarding the holy place?。
Yeah, yeah, cherubim, there you go, cherubim.。
They are supposed to symbolize cherubim.。
Do you wanna go inside?。
No?。
You can't go inside, right?。
Because when the tabernacle was in the midst。
of the ancient Israelites,。
no one can go into the holy of holies.。
No one can go behind the curtain.。
You can go in only one day per year,。
and it's represented by the high priest, Aaron,。
and his descendants.。
The high priest will go in one day a year on Yom Kippur.。
Day of Atonement.。
And he's gonna represent the whole people of Israel。
and go into the holy of holies and to atone the people。
so that the people will find forgiveness of sins.。
So only the high priest can enter into the holy of holies,。
which is a square, perfect square,。
meaning holy of holies is a perfect place.。
Do you wanna go inside?。
For this model, you can go inside, all right?。
All right, so you kind of go through the curtain。
and inside there's only one furniture item,。
and that furniture item is called the Ark of the Covenant.。
All right?。
It's plated with gold, real gold, all right?。
The Ark of the Covenant is actually a box, a chest box,。
and they store one of the items inside the box.。
And on top of it, there are two creatures, and who are they?。
The cherubim, yes, the cherubim.。
There's gotta be cherubim everywhere, right?。
Cherubim.。
So they're guarding the holy of holies.。
Now the Ark of the Covenant is actually God's throne.。
He sits on it.。
That is his chair, that is his oval office, right?。
It's right at the center of the White House.。
That's where the president is.。
That's where the king of the universe is, right?。
Of course, there's no idol,。
there's no visible symbol for God。
because God is invisible, right?。
But inside this box, you find two copies of stone tablets.。
All right?。
And what is written on it should be,。
part of the words should be the Ten Commandments, right?。
There are two copies.。
And you know why?。
Because in the biblical time,。
when two nations are making covenant together,。
when two parties are making covenant together,。
they will come together and talk about。
the terms of the covenant.。
And once they agree with the terms of the covenant,。
with all the blessing and curses for obeying it,。
you get the blessing.。
If you disobey, you get the curse.。
And that is gonna protect the covenant relationship。
between two nations, two parties.。
When the two parties agree with the terms of the covenant,。
they will make two copies in stone。
or in some doable material.。
They will write down or engrave the terms on the tablet.。
So you get a copy, I get a copy.。
It's an exact copy, right?。
And you're gonna bring your copy back to your country,。
and you're gonna deposit the tablet。
into your main sanctuary, your main temple.。
So you're gonna put your copy in your main temple,。
in your holy of holies,。
and I'm gonna put my copy in my sanctuary,。
the biggest temple of my country.。
I'm gonna put it there in my holy of holies.。
And year after year, we're going to renew the covenant,。
and we're gonna read the covenant terms,。
and make sure we're gonna obey it。
and maintain our relationship.。
Now, for Yahweh, for God, and Israel,。
when they make covenant together,。
for the people of Israel, where is their sanctuary?。
It's a tabernacle, right?。
And that's why you find one copy in the holy of holies,。
in the Ark of the Covenant, right?。
And for Yahweh, for God himself, where is his temple?。
Also in tabernacle, right?。
Also in tabernacle, the earthly temple is in,。
it's a tabernacle.。
So Yahweh's copy, God's copy, and Israel copy。
are being deposited into this same box.。
So you find two exact copies.。
That means God and Israel, God and his people。
have a covenant going on, right?。
And that covenant will protect their relationship.。
And the people are being called to worship God。
because they are his people, and God is their God.。
And they are going to honor God and worship God。
and serve God with God in their midst.。
Now we can come, this is the end of the tour, all right?。
This is the end of the tour.。
But we're gonna go to the text, go into the Bible,。
and see how the Bible describes。
the building of the tabernacle.。
In the book of Exodus, chapter 25 to 40,。
is the long portion of the text,。
talking about the plan and the building of tabernacle.。
From chapters 25 to 31, God gave Moses the plan.。
It's an architectural blueprint, how to build a tabernacle.。
Like how long it is, how wide it is,。
and what you're gonna use.。
You're gonna use gold and silver。
for all the things that you're gonna put together.。
That is the architectural plan, 25 to 31.。
And then 35 to 40, the ending chapters,。
describes the actual building of the tabernacle.。
All right, so we're not gonna read it.。
But here's the interesting things.。
From 25 to 31, talking about the blueprint of tabernacle,。
you expect the Bible will continue。
to talk about the actual building of tabernacle, right?。
However, in between 32 and, 32 to 34,。
you find an episode, a very sad episode.。
The people of Israel in the wilderness,。
they worship a different God.。
They worship their own idol, golden calf.。
However, at the end of this episode,。
God is saying, "I'm gonna still dwell among you."。
And that is a lesson of grace.。
We don't deserve the presence of God in the midst of us.。
Only because of God's grace,。
that God is going to have his presence among us,。
so that we can worship him.。
Have you ever thought of that?。
We can worship God, it's not because we deserve it.。
It's not because we earn it.。
It's God made a way that is possible。
for us sinners to worship him, right?。
So it's very interesting how the design of the chapters.。
After the blueprint, the Bible stops right there.。
Hey, remember, God can live among us.。
It's not because we earn it.。
We're sinners, we don't deserve it.。
God, by his sheer grace, he can make his presence among us。
and we can worship him.。
And then you see the building of the tabernacle.。
The tabernacle represents the presence of God。
in the Old Testament.。
That God is living in the midst of his people。
and his people will worship him.。
And I wanna bring out two points。
about worship and tabernacle.。
And there are two main points.。
When the people, when Moses received the plan,。
the blueprint of tabernacle,。
look how the people are being commanded to do.。
The Lord said to Moses,。
"Tell the people of Israel to bring me sacred offerings.。
Accept a contribution from all those hearts。
are moved to offer them."。
And here's the list of sacred offerings。
you may accept with them.。
Gold, silver, bronze, all sorts of expensive items.。
You're gonna bring them as offerings。
to build the tabernacle.。
Verse eight, God said,。
"Have the people of Israel build me a holy sanctuary。
so I can live among them."。
You must build this tabernacle and its furnishings。
exactly according to the pattern I will show you.。
God is saying, "I will have the people。
to build me a sanctuary, build me a camping tent。
so that I can camp among them, I can live among them。
so that they can worship me and I can be their people."。
And you're gonna do so according to the plan。
that I have for you.。
Here, "Tell the people of Israel to bring me,"。
not the second best, not the leftover,。
"Bring them the best things that they have."。
They have gold and silver because when they left Egypt,。
they plundered Egypt, they conquered Egypt,。
and the Egyptians gave them all these good things, right?。
Treasures, gold and silver.。
So they're carrying all those gold and silver items。
with them out of Egypt.。
And God is saying, "You need to offer them to me。
to build this tabernacle so that I can build,。
I can live among you."。
You see the principle here is generous offering.。
How blessed we are that we can build the presence of God。
in the midst of us.。
God does not need the people of Israel。
to build him a tabernacle.。
God doesn't need that.。
God can send angels to build a tabernacle,。
but he wants his people to participate。
in the act of worship.。
God want his people to participate in worship.。
And that's why we come to worship,。
not because we deserve it,。
but God is willing to live among us。
and give us the opportunity to sing praises to him,。
to worship him and to serve him.。
God does not need you or need me to worship him.。
It's all by grace.。
And that's why when we build our church,。
when we build the body of Christ,。
the presence of God,。
we are called to make offerings, generous offering.。
Have you ever thought why we don't do offerings?。
Sometimes we just don't believe that God is good, right?。
Sometimes we just don't believe God is generous, right?。
But the Bible show us once and again, God is generous.。
God is so good to you and to me.。
And that's why we can offer our generous offering。
to build his presence, to build the tabernacle.。
Just like those days, the people of Israel were called。
to bring in the gold and silver and all these good things.。
They can build the tabernacle。
so that God will live among them.。
And secondly, is to be holy.。
Leviticus 28, God said, "Keep all my decrees。
"by putting them into practice,。
"for I am the Lord who makes you holy."。
Now, what does it mean?。
Holiness or being holy means separated,。
that you're different, right?。
That's what the basic meaning of holy is.。
Be holy means be different, be separated。
from all the nations, from all those people。
who don't worship God himself.。
And you are different, you got to be holy,。
and you got to keep the words of God。
and put them into practice.。
And that is the principle of worship.。
We come to worship, it's not just about singing praises.。
We got to conduct our lives according to the will of God.。
Because God is living among us when we observe his law,。
when we follow his words willingly.。
Two principle out of tabernacle.。
Now, of course, you're gonna say,。
"Okay, we don't need a tabernacle today," right?。
You can go to southern Israel。
and visit the one-to-one replica.。
Do we need a tabernacle?。
We don't.。
Why?。
Because we are in the era of New Testament.。
Christ has come, Christ has come.。
And Christ is the perfect priest.。
He is the perfect high priest,。
and he offer himself as the perfect sacrifice.。
That's why we don't need the lamb,。
offer the sheep as burnt offering today.。
Because the Old Testament era is gone,。
and the way of worship is different.。
In the Old Testament, people worship God。
in the tabernacle or around the tabernacle.。
In the New Testament, we worship God in Christ.。
It's not in a place, it's not in a spot on the map,。
but in Christ.。
So in the New Testament, there was no more animal sacrifices.。
There was no more Aaron the high priest.。
There was no more tabernacle, physical tabernacle,。
because Christ has come.。
But I wanna show you this verse, John chapter 1, 14.。
Now, as I read John chapter 1, 14,。
you try to guess which word is related to tabernacle.。
All right?。
John 1, 14.。
So the word, speaking of Jesus,。
became human and made his home among us.。
He was full of unfailing love, grace, and faithfulness.。
And we have seen his glory,。
the glory of the Father's one and only Son.。
Where you see the word related to tabernacle here?。
Home, right?。
Made his home among us.。
The word became flesh.。
Jesus Christ came as God incarnate.。
Made flesh and made his home among us.。
Actually, the original Greek term is tabernacle.。
God made his tabernacle among us,。
or God tabernacle among us.。
God's glamping among us, camping among us,。
living in the midst of us.。
So that when we see Jesus, when we see the record of Jesus,。
we see the glory of the Father, the glory of the true God.。
And that is the beginning of the Gospel of John,。
chapter 1, 14.。
And then at the end of Gospel of John, chapter 17,。
after the Last Supper, Jesus prayed a prayer,。
and we call that prayer the High Priest Prayer.。
He was like a high priest.。
And one of the verses that describe。
Jesus' High Priest Prayer was 1722.。
And Jesus said, "I have given my disciples。
"the glory you gave me, so they may be one as we are one.。
"I have given them the glory, I have shown them the glory,"。
which is the glory of the cross,。
that he was willing to die on the cross。
to redeem all of us.。
"I have given them the glory, I have shown them the glory,。
"so that they may be one as we are one."。
He's like the high priest,。
bring in the glory of God。
to his disciples, to us, to the church, right?。
Now, we don't need the tabernacle because Christ came.。
Christ is the tabernacle, that's why we worship in Christ.。
That's why we pray in Christ.。
Now, however, there are all sorts of sanctuary terms。
or temple terms to describe the people of God。
in the New Testament.。
And I wanna close with this verse,。
1 Corinthians 3.16.。
Now, you know the letter of 1 Corinthians。
is written to the church in Corinth.。
And we know the home churches in Corinth。
had a lot of problems.。
They have divisions among them,。
they have separation among them,。
they have arguments in the midst of them,。
and they are fighting for different things.。
And it's a very problematic church.。
And the pastor, Paul, wrote this letter to them。
to warn them and to teach them。
how to live as a worshiping community.。
In chapter three, verse 16,。
he reminds the Christians in Corinth,。
he said, "Don't you realize that all of you together。
"are the temple of God?"。
Wait, I thought the temple of God is stone building.。
No, Paul said, "Because Christ lives in you.。
"You guys, you together, when you meet together,。
"when you are a family of God, you are the temple of God."。
And what is the temple of God?。
What is the sanctuary of God or tabernacle of God?。
It's God's home, right?。
God is living in the midst of the temple, right?。
The temple is God's home.。
And Paul is saying, "You guys are the home of God.。
"You guys are the embodiment of the presence of God.。
"You together are the temple of God。
"and that the Spirit lives in you."。
And you have to realize that.。
When we congregate together, when we meet together,。
no matter what size of your congregation,。
if you call on the name of God,。
if you pray to the name of Jesus,。
we are the community of faith, we are the church.。
At the same time, we are the temple of God.。
God is living in the midst of us.。
In 17, it's a huge warning.。
He warns the Christian in Corinth,。
"God will destroy anyone who destroys his temple.。
"For God's temple is holy and you are that temple."。
Let me read that again.。
"God will destroy anyone who destroy this temple."。
And who is, what is this temple?。
The church in Corinth, right?。
The church people.。
We are the temple.。
"And God will destroy anyone who destroy this temple.。
"For God's temple is holy and you guys are the temple."。
Do you realize what, it's so great of God's grace.。
God lives, choose to live in the midst of us, right?。
Not that we deserve it, right?。
We are all broken and sinners, right?。
We all have our own flaws.。
However, God chooses to live in the midst of his people。
who call on the name of Jesus.。
And that's why we need to do everything。
to build up this temple.。
That's why we need to do everything。
to build up this community, this church.。
Because we understand the New Testament,。
the Bible tells us that we are the embodiment,。
the presence of God.。
When someone walk into our church,。
let's say that that person is not a Christian yet.。
It's not a believer yet.。
He walked in.。
How can he see the presence of God?。
He see the presence of God through us, right?。
Paul is saying to the Corinthian Christians,。
"If you are fighting against each other,。
"people cannot see God, right?。
"People cannot see the holy presence of God."。
He warns them, "If you destroy this temple,。
"God will destroy him."。
Because God's temple, God's home is holy, right?。
In the same way, that is a reminder for all of us,。
not to destroy, but to build up, build up the temple,。
build up God's home so that God will be glorified, right?。
And that is the essence of worship.。
And brothers and sisters, I pray, I pray that。
we will be faithful, we'll be faithful。
to build up God's temple, God's church.。
Now, you have to see it by faith.。
You have to see it by faith.。
You cannot see with your flashy eyes.。
You have to see it by faith.。
We see each other, the sister and brother in Christ.。
We have to see it by faith that God is living。
in the midst of us.。
When we pray for one another, when we worship together,。
God is living and dwelling in the midst of us。
so that our worship can bear the witness to the world,。
to tell other people God is real。
and God is worthy of our worship.。
Let us all pray together.。
Father, we come before you and ask that you will forgive us.。
At times, we just trivialize worship.。
And we thought we'd just come together and sing some songs.。
No, it is not.。
By your grace, you dwell among us.。
And we are your people, and we are your temple, holy temple.。
And God, I pray that you will renew our faith,。
renew our commitment to you,。
that we'll be your real people,。
knowing that you live among us.。
And thank you for being our God, and we can be your people.。
Let our worship be holy and pleasing to you.。
Let our worship be a witness to the world,。
to other people, that you are real。
and you are worthy of our praises.。
So pray that you will renew our spirit of worship,。
our sense of wonder, wonder of your grace,。
all and so awesome of your grace,。
that we can be called to worship you in your presence。
in Christ, and pray.。
Well, God bless all of you, and next week, okay,。
we're gonna do our act of worship together, all right?。
Let's do it faithfully.。
Let's do it in a way that is pleasing to God.。
All right, see you next Sunday.。
