Well, so happy to see all of you, and as I said, I came back last night about 9 to 10。
p.m.。
And safe and sound, good to see my family, good to see all of you.。
And again, we went as a group, 27 people, 12 of them from this church and 15 of them。
from all over the place, Hong Kong, West Coast and East Coast.。
And what a blessing to have all of us together for the past two weeks and to walk the land,。
actually.。
This is one of my favorite pictures, and I have tons of pictures, and I want to just。
give me some time to reorganize them.。
And starting next Sunday, I'll design a series and introduce to you what happened there.。
This is one of the favorite pictures I have because we do have, this round, we do have。
a couple of semi-professional photographers, and they did take some good pictures.。
And yeah, I don't know what I'm doing with my right hand, but in any case, this is one。
of the places that we went to in the past two weeks, and it was an additional place。
because we found some time.。
So I talked to the driver, "Hey, can we just take some off-track places?"。
And so we went.。
So we were on that day, on this day, we were going from Jerusalem, which is high on the。
mountain, and all the way to the east, to the Judean wilderness, all the way to the。
Dead Sea and Jericho and all that.。
Remember that, right?。
The road from Jericho down to, the road from Jerusalem down to Jericho.。
And there is a road, right?。
And today is the Highway 1 in Israel.。
So we were passing different places, and I talked to the tour guide, and I talked to。
the driver, "Hey, do we have time to go over there?"。
And we made a left turn into this off-track places.。
And the place was called Wadi Q, Q-E-L-T. Wadi is in Arabic.。
It means some dry valley.。
Usually it's just seasonal runoff will go after the, go into the valley, but usually。
it's dry.。
And what you see on the left is actually the Wadi Q, and it's one of the valleys coming。
out of the mountain of Jerusalem all the way to the Dead Sea Valley.。
So it's kind of exotic place.。
Yeah, because we were in this big bus, right?。
27, almost 30 people.。
And then we would drive, I wasn't driving.。
I wanted to drive, but the driver was one, just amazing driver.。
And he drove the bus on the cliff of Wadi Q. And we can see, you know, down the window,。
we can see the bottom of the valley.。
And it's just amazing view there, right?。
On the left, lower left, you see a monastery.。
The monastery is called St. George Monastery, and it's a monastic community that existed。
since AD 400.。
So it's been around for 1,600 plus years.。
Generation after generation, there are Christians, Eastern Orthodox Christians who gather there。
and to live a contemplative life and keeping the tradition of Christianity.。
So it's just amazing.。
And this picture did not show up, perhaps it did.。
We were standing on, right on the top of the cliff and looking down to Wadi Q and St.。
George Monastery, and on the other side of the valley, we saw a shepherd grazing the。
sheep on the cliff.。
And there were probably like hundreds of sheep and running up and down the cliff and, you。
know, finding food, right?。
And this is actually Psalm 23.。
The Lord is my shepherd, and I have lack of nothing.。
And He leads me into green pastures and quiet waters.。
And what do you think of when you read words like this in Psalm 23?。
Green pastures and quiet waters.。
We always think of the Scottish Highland, right?。
Where everything is green, right?。
This is actually Psalm 23.。
Green pastures.。
Can you see anything green in there?。
Maybe a little bit, right?。
Maybe a little bit.。
But that is the green pastures of Psalm 23.。
Just enough for you, right?。
If you follow a wise shepherd, the wilderness is the place for grazing sheep.。
You don't graze a sheep in your olive grove, right?。
In your wheat farm, right?。
Because those are for surplus, for humans, right?。
So animals, sheep and donkey and goats, they go out to the wilderness, which is just east。
of Jerusalem.。
Often we read of land without water, land without water and wilderness.。
This sort of picture is the wilderness.。
And you think about Psalm 23.。
Green pastures is the little green stuff underneath of the rocks.。
The little green stuff, you know, between the cracks and sheep can go out and find them,。
right?。
And then they can get just enough, the essentials to be fed on.。
That is the theology of Psalm 23.。
You see quiet water?。
No, just seasonal runoff, right?。
As I said.。
But if you follow a wise shepherd, you get just enough water for you to live.。
Just enough for you to survive and even thrive in a land like this, right?。
It's beautiful.。
It's beautiful.。
So, you know, in order to understand some of the passages in the Bible, I think it's。
so essential for us to walk the land.。
One of my professors who passed away some years ago, Anson Rainey, he's a professional。
biblical geographer.。
He always, you know, when you take his classes, we always go out to the field, places like。
this.。
We don't sit in the classroom.。
We don't sit in an air conditioner, air conditioner room to listen to a lecture.。
Most of the time we walk out there.。
And sometimes we walk with him.。
And Rainey would say, you know, this is the only institute, only classroom that we have。
a one-to-one map.。
Indeed, it was one-to-one, right?。
Every step of the way is not the Bible map that we found in the Bible, but it's actually。
walking the land, right?。
So he always emphasized one thing is that we have to read the Bible with our feet on。
the ground.。
Our feet on the ground, right?。
Not in the ivory tower, but with our feet on the ground, right?。
So yeah, it's beautiful.。
I haven't been to Waterkill for years.。
I've led tours for the past over 10 years.。
And usually because we want to hit different sites, different spots, and we want to go。
out there and to see as many places as we can.。
But it was such a unique opportunity.。
We can just pass through the wilderness and spend extended time there.。
So there I was actually reading Psalm 23.。
It's not the Scottish Highland, but God is always faithful, even in wilderness, right?。
Amen to that, right?。
Standing on the ground as we read the Bible, right?。
So yeah, that's what, this is one of my passions.。
And I want to thank the church for letting me and letting the pastor to go away for a。
little bit and to be a blessing to many other people.。
And most of the people, we go out to different sites and their first response has always。
been, "Wow, ah, yeah, I got it now."。
Right?。
Yeah, you got it now, right?。
So walking with our feet on the ground as we read the Bible, right?。
So perhaps next year you can go with me, right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, we can go anytime.。
I always tell people you can go, you know, next week.。
As long as you got a passport and you got a visa card, that's all you need, right?。
But I did bring something back this time.。
So as a tour guide, I got some free gifts.。
So I got this mineral hand cream from a hover factory.。
Yeah, so all the way from Dead Sea, right?。
So you can get a little bit after the service, just like a million, you know?。
(audience laughing)。
Share, okay, share.。
Don't drink the bottle, all right?。
Don't drink the bottle, all right.。
So it's good to be here and I want to reflect on a short passage today.。
And I want to tell you, we, in order to understand the message, the impact of the passage, we。
have to understand the context.。
That's why we have this theme of walking the land.。
You need to understand the biblical background of scripture in order to appreciate what Jesus。
has said.。
And this passage is Matthew chapter eight.。
Let's read that first.。
When Jesus saw the crowd around him, he taught them, the disciples, and he instructed the。
disciples to cross to the other side of the lake.。
And this lake is called Sea of Galilee, right?。
The Lake of Galilee, Sea of Galilee.。
So they crossed to the other side, away from the crowd, and one of the teachers of religious。
law said to Jesus, "Teacher, Rabbi, I will follow you wherever you go."。
But Jesus replied, "Foxes have dens to live in and birds have nets, but the Son of Man。
has no place even to lay his head."。
Then other of his disciples said, "Lord, first let me return home and bury my father."。
But Jesus told him, "Follow me now.。
Let the spiritually dead bury their own dead."。
Now first of all, this is a passage, one of the passages about discipleship, about the。
cause of following Jesus.。
I must admit the very first time when I was much younger, when I first read this passage,。
I was kind of confused.。
This is actually one of the tough sayings of Jesus, one of the most difficult to understand。
sayings in the Bible.。
And what he said is that, especially the latter part of it, verses 21 to 22.。
Other disciples said to Jesus, "Yeah, I want to follow you, but first let me return home。
and bury my father."。
But Jesus said, "Yeah, go ahead and bury your father and follow me."。
No, he didn't say that.。
He said, "Follow me now.。
Follow me now.。
Let the dead bury their own dead."。
Now that's what I call really confusing, right?。
It's really tough.。
What is going on?。
I just want to bury my father, right?。
So how long would that take?。
Maybe a day or two, right?。
You think about modern burial practices.。
Can we just do that, right?。
And then I'll follow you?。
Because by all means, in Jewish culture, burying one's father is one of the most honorable。
thing for someone to do it, right?。
Especially for son, right?。
In that patriarchal culture, you have to honor your parents, right?。
By the way, that's one of the Ten Commandments, right?。
To respect and to honor your parents.。
And what is going on here?。
And I think in order to appreciate the impact of what Jesus has said, you have to understand,。
again, it's the context, the background of the Bible.。
The Bible is not something, you know, out of the blue, like a heavenly book.。
It's dropped down from heaven to earth, and then we can read it.。
And the message and the languages are magical.。
No, the Bible has its own context, right?。
In order to understand what the Bible says, we have to understand the background.。
And here we go.。
We have to understand in Jesus' time, burial is a huge thing, just as today, right?。
No matter you like someone or you don't like someone, if you know him and he passed away,。
you probably have to change your clothes, all black, and you go to the funeral home。
just to, you know, pay the final respects, right?。
It's a huge thing, but in Jesus' time, it was a bigger, huge deal.。
So in the Jewish culture, in Jesus' time, they would do this in their burial.。
So from left to right, when someone died, what to do with the body?。
What to do with the dead ones?。
First, because in the ancient days, they didn't have refrigerator and ways or technology to。
preserve the body, and it gets stinky really quickly.。
That's why someone died, and then they have to bury the body almost ASAP, almost immediately.。
They have to put the body in the tomb, and this is the typical Jewish ritual of burying。
someone.。
So first of all, someone died, all the way to the left.。
You're going to go into the burial, almost within 24 hours.。
And then you kick in a seven-day mourning period.。
It's called Shavuot.。
Shavuot means seven in Hebrew.。
So seven days, they would mourn at home, almost privately.。
And then, after the seven days of Shavuot, they would go into Shaloshim.。
Shalosh is three.。
Shaloshim is 30.。
Thirty days of mourning, and then some of the members of the family and extended relatives,。
they will come to your home and visit you, bring you food or bring you gifts and all。
that stuff, and 30 days.。
And then you wait for about a year.。
So you put the body in the tomb, and then it will take time for the flesh to declay,。
right?。
To be all gone.。
And then almost one year later, you will return to the same tomb and to gather the bones,。
right?。
If I die, you bury me in the tomb, right?。
And then one year later, you come back and you don't see me anymore.。
You see my bones, right?。
And that's what they do.。
It's the second burial.。
Second burial.。
And they put the bones into some stone boxes called asherurim.。
And these boxes, you can still see all over Jerusalem.。
And this is one of the pictures of the first century tomb, and they call Kokkim tomb.。
Now this is what I said in the timeline.。
Once the body is there, once someone dies, and you have to prepare the body, and you。
bring the body into the chamber of the tomb, okay?。
By the way, this tomb is right next to a coffee shop.。
Yeah, it's very nice.。
You can have a coffee and a croissant right in front of the tomb.。
Interesting.。
It's on Mount Scopus in Jerusalem.。
Anyways, you see the entrance of the tomb, right?。
Back in the days of Jesus, 2,000 years ago, the tomb is dated to the time of Jesus.。
It was covered.。
It was a cave, actually.。
So now it's open air.。
Anyways, it was covered 2,000 years ago, and the ceiling of the cave did not collapse.。
So you go into the entrance.。
Can you see that?。
There are three side benches, right?。
And then you bring the dead body on the bench, and you put spices and whatever you need to。
prepare the body for.。
And then you're going to prepare it well, and then you're going to stuff the body into,。
you know, see the small holes?。
Those are called coke.。
K-O-K-H.。
You stuff the body in there, and then one of the cokes, or one of the kookim, or kookim。
is plural, coke is singular.。
So as you can see, there were a lot of kookim, right?。
Because most of the tomb is family tomb, right?。
So my father used it, I used it, my son used it, my grandson will use it.。
So there were a lot of people being buried in the same place, in the same tomb, because。
they belong to the same family.。
So that's why they were, it's like a refrigerator, all right?。
You put the body in the kookim, and then what do you do?。
What do you do?。
You go home for seven days of mourning, and then 30 days of mourning, and then?。
And then you wait, right?。
For one year.。
And the body stay in the tomb, in the kook, or kookim, and then let the flesh decay, and。
when everything is gone, you go back one year later for the second burial, which is the。
ossuary, right?。
Or you see, one year later, you open the tomb again, go inside, and gather the bones into。
boxes like this.。
Some of them are decorated with some geometric design.。
Some of them are bigger, some of them are smaller.。
And the length of the stone box is the length of your longest bone.。
Where is your longest bone in your body?。
Right here, what do you call it?。
- Femur.。
- Femur, right?。
Femur, yeah, this one.。
So for me, I probably need a bigger box.。
Anyways, it's just a matter of, it's a business of recycling, right?。
Because they are doing a lot of different stone work and stone building, especially。
Herb the Great, he built or expand the temple in Jerusalem so big, and that's why there。
were so many leftover stones, right?。
And they make vessels out of the stones, and one of the vessels is the ossuary.。
So they will go back one year later and gather all the bones and put them all in the stone。
box.。
And then you put the box by the entrance or by the, just on the side of the chamber.。
So the dead upon dead will be gathered in the tomb.。
And then the new dead will be buried in the same tomb, and then you go through the same。
cycle, three days and, what, seven days and 30 days, and one year, you go back for a second。
burial, gathering the bones and put in the stone boxes.。
So with that background, you can actually understand what happened, first of all, on。
Good Friday.。
All right, Good Friday.。
Good Friday, when Jesus died, his body has to be buried, buried, right, immediately,。
right?。
And remember what time Jesus died on Friday?。
Before Shabbat, right?。
Before Shabbat.。
Once Shabbat kicks in, you cannot do any work.。
You have to wait for another 24 hours, right, to continue to work.。
So that's what happened on Good Friday.。
Jesus died, and quite unexpectedly, and the women disciples, or the disciples, would put。
his body into one of these tombs, and the Bible says it's a new tomb, a new tomb for。
the important people.。
So they would put his body on the bench, and because Shabbat is coming, and they could。
not finish the work, right?。
They got to get out of the tomb, because it's Shabbat, right?。
You got to purify yourself in order to prepare yourself for Sabbath of 24 hours.。
So they exit the tomb, and then when did they come back?。
After Shabbat, right?。
After 24 hours.。
And then on the first day of the week, it's the first day of the work.。
So they return, the women return to the tomb, and they try to, probably they would ask someone。
to open the tomb again, and come back, and just finish off whatever they did not finish.。
It was kind of in a hurry, so they didn't finish all the ritual of mourning and burial.。
So that's what they were planning to do.。
Returning to the tomb for the first burial, put Jesus' body into what?。
One of the kukims, right?。
Stuff him.。
Stuff him into one of the holes, and wait for another year, and come back for asurery.。
That's what happened on Good Friday.。
With that picture, or with this timeline, you would understand what, oh this is one。
of the diagrams, this is better, right?。
The entrance is on top, or it's middle of the picture.。
You remove that big stone, and you get into the cave.。
You have the center chamber, and then you have kukims.。
In any case, with this timeline, you can understand what Jesus said.。
He said what?。
First of all, and other disciples said to him, "Lord, first let me return home and bury。
my father."。
But Jesus replied, "Follow me now, let the dead bury their dead."。
That's what happened here.。
Now I want to ask you a question.。
With that background, I explain.。
This and other disciple who came to Jesus and said, "Hey, first let me return home and。
bury my father."。
For this disciple, assuming his father just passed away, when did this disciple approach。
Jesus with that request?。
When?。
Is it before first burial, or before second burial?。
There's no way for this guy to have any room to come to Jesus and follow him and say, "Hey,。
first let me go back and bury my father."。
There's no way that he can find time before the first burial.。
You understand what I'm saying?。
So it has to be this guy, when he approached Jesus, he already done his first burial.。
And he's waiting for another year, right?。
Because the second burial has to be done, right?。
So when this and other disciple approach Jesus, it has to be between the first burial and。
second burial.。
So what he meant when he said to Jesus, "First let me return home and bury my father."。
He was referring to the second burial, the ossuary.。
So he is asking Jesus, "Hey, I want to follow you, but hey, let me have some time.。
And let me get the ossuary done first, the second burial."。
So essentially, he was asking Jesus for a year time.。
"I want to follow you, but next year, because I want to get something done, right?。
The second burial.。
It's not done yet."。
Do you understand what I'm saying?。
There's no way his father just died and then he would come and follow Jesus, right?。
This is the most dishonorable thing to do, right?。
His father died, indeed, it's pretty sad.。
But he has already done his first burial because first burial happened almost immediately,。
right?。
There was no time for this guy to approach and follow Jesus.。
And this, another disciple actually is between the first and second burial and asking Jesus,。
"Hey, can I have some time before I follow you?。
Let me first go back home and bury the dead."。
Now in rabbinical tradition, for all the sons, especially the firstborn son, there are three。
rituals in their lives that are most important.。
Think about your life, in your lifetime.。
What are the most important things that you could have done?。
You could have done, right?。
For the Jewish tradition, the first most important thing, most important ritual for all Jewish。
men, the first one is circumcision.。
It's done on the eighth day after the child is born, right?。
So it's done.。
That's the most important ritual they have to go through.。
The second most important moment in their life or ritual in their life is wedding.。
Get married.。
That is the biggest day.。
And the third one, actually according to ancient literature, Jewish literature, is the second。
burial.。
It's the ossuary.。
Because you will finish the duty, the honorable duty of the firstborn son.。
So it's not really the first burial that is important.。
The most important thing is wait for another year until you come back to the same tomb。
and gather the bones of your father into ossuaries.。
That is the most important ritual and most important social honors one has to gain.。
Now with this background, you understand the impact of the passage.。
You understand what Jesus is trying to say.。
Because the entire Bible from Genesis to Revelation, no one can claim the authority higher than。
your parents.。
Remember I said one of the Ten Commandments is honor your father and your mother, right?。
Your parents, in this kind of culture, is the most important people on earth.。
You have to honor them.。
You have to pay respect to them, right?。
From the first page of the Bible to the last page, nobody can claim the authority higher。
than your human parents, except God himself.。
Only God can step in and say, "I have a higher authority.。
You honor me above all others, even your parents, even your grandparents."。
So as you can see, what Jesus is claiming is actually the authority of divinity.。
He is not a normal guy.。
He has power and authority and honor much higher, infinitely higher than any human authority,。
including your parents.。
Remember I said I quote this line to you before?。
Listen up.。
This line says, "Either Christ is Lord of all, or he is not Lord at all."。
Right?。
A.B. Simpson, founder of Alliance Church.。
Christ is all of all, otherwise he is not Lord at all.。
So my point is, there are two basic points.。
Let me go back to this slide.。
This passage is the priority of following Jesus.。
Following Jesus, honoring him, worshipping him and serving him is above all.。
Above your own emotional stuff you have to deal with, above your parental authorities,。
above everything else.。
And Jesus is the highest because he is God himself.。
He is the Lord of everything.。
He is over everything of your life.。
It's the priority of following Jesus.。
And secondly, it's the timing of following Jesus.。
I gave you the chart.。
I gave you the timeline of a typical Jewish burial in Jesus' day.。
And I already explained how it is for this and other disciples to approach Jesus.。
This has to be after the first burial and before the second burial, the austerity.。
So this and other disciples is asking Jesus for a different timing of following him.。
He said, "Yes, I want to follow you, but let me delay for about another year and then。
I will decide to follow you."。
And Jesus said what?。
"Let the dead bury the dead."。
What does it mean?。
With that tomb picture in your mind, you understand what Jesus said.。
Because inside a family tomb there were so many dead people, right?。
In the past, your grandparents, the great-grandparents, the bones were there.。
The dead were with the dead in the tomb.。
And Jesus was saying, "Hey, you need to follow me.。
You have to follow me now."。
And also, if you understand the story flow, the story plot of the Bible, the Gospel of。
Matthew specifically, we read chapter 8.。
Chapter 8, Jesus already started his prophet ministry and he was on his way to Jerusalem。
and die on the cross, crucify, die, be buried, and rise again.。
How much time does he have?。
How much time does Jesus have between the disciple approaching him to the time of Jerusalem,。
his death?。
Less than a year.。
Less than a year.。
As you can tell, this another disciple did have the intention to follow Jesus, but he。
did not understand the time is running out.。
If you don't follow Jesus now, you will never be able to follow him.。
You see what I'm saying?。
Because he will be gone.。
If you really need to follow this rabbi, if you really need to follow Christ, you've got。
to do it now because according to the story of the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus had less than。
a year on earth.。
There's no time for you to wait for another second burial to be done, anything to be done,。
any stuff that you have to do.。
Just a reminder for us, if we follow Jesus, we better do it now because he claims the。
highest priority.。
And also, your time is running out.。
You have to follow him.。
Following Jesus is the biggest deal.。
There are many matters in our lives are big deals, but there is no bigger deal than following。
Christ.。
There's no one greater than Jesus himself in terms of authority.。
So Jesus said, "Let the dead bury the dead."。
He's actually poking fun of the complicated burial ritual the Jewish had.。
It's too complicated to follow.。
It's actually challenging us to lay aside anything that is stopping us from following。
Jesus today, at this moment, not tomorrow, not next month, not next year, because who。
knows, right?。
In our past two weeks, I was with the 27 people on the trip and I think by the end of first。
week, some of the members are from Hong Kong, they received really shocking news because。
one of their relatives suddenly had a stroke and she's a young mother, 30-some years old,。
had a stroke on the street, didn't have any sign, and she had a stroke, a massive stroke,。
and she was immediately hospitalized in ICU, 30-some years old, and we were praying for。
her on our trip almost every single day, all of us, praying for her.。
And I think she's still alive in ICU, but in a very critical condition.。
What I want to tell you is that if you want to follow Jesus, this is the time.。
Not wait until something has been fixed, right?。
Not wait, like, "Okay, let the church be better and then I'll follow Jesus."。
Or, "Let me take care of my relational issues and my work or my career, and even I won't。
follow Jesus until I retire."。
If that is so, I don't think this Jesus is what I want.。
I don't think this is the Lord of all.。
Jesus is not the God worthy of my following.。
If I have to wait and He will become my footnote of my life.。
No, Jesus is the content of your life, not the footnote.。
We are the footnotes.。
So I want to remind you, following Jesus is now, not tomorrow, not next year.。
Let's all pray together.。
Pray that we will return and repent from our delay, delaying our decision in ways that。
you can think of.。
You know, sometimes we have reservation of following Jesus because this or that, no matter。
what is this or what is that, Jesus has the highest authority and following Him is now.。
Father, we come before you, we realize that your Son, Jesus Christ, is the Lord of all.。
And I pray that at this moment, all the brothers and sisters, Christ, all the friends, we do。
have some stuff we have to deal with.。
And perhaps some of the issues in our lives, our career, our work, our study, almost anything。
we can think of can be the barrier, the barrier of following you right now.。
And I pray that you will listen to us, listen to our prayers.。
Help us see that you are the God worthy of our praise, worthy of our following.。
And I pray that at this moment, your Spirit will cleanse us, lay aside all the issues,。
worries and reluctance that will come and follow you right now.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
(dramatic music)。
