Good morning, UV.。
It is good to be able to worship with you this morning.。
And as Pastor Mark say, it's good to see some old faces back。
and also some new faces as well this morning.。
So welcome and thank you for joining us.。
So what are some of the hardest things。
that you have been asked to do before?。
Or if you think about it,。
what are some of the most challenging tasks。
that you have gone through?。
As I reflect on my personal experience,。
I think they usually fall under a few categories.。
Some of these things are hard。
because they test our human limits。
and they push us to our very edge,。
intellectually, emotionally, or physically.。
This October, I will be running。
the Chicago Marathon as well.。
And even though I'm looking forward to it,。
there's also part of me that is somewhat nervous about it。
because I know that in order for me。
to finish these 26.2 miles,。
it will push me to my very limit.。
And on the other hand,。
some of the things are challenging。
because they require us to face our own fears.。
Think of extreme activities like skydiving,。
bungee jumping,。
or even small things like catching a cockroach or a spider.。
Right?。
And then there are certain things。
that are hard and challenging。
because of what they require from us。
to sacrifice our own preference.。
So the passage that we will be looking at today。
contains one of the most radical teachings。
and challenging commands from Jesus himself.。
It is difficult and challenging。
not because it pushes to our limits。
or it requires us to face our fears,。
but it is difficult because in order to do。
what Jesus has told us to do here,。
it requires us to completely deny ourself。
and our own self-interest.。
To put it another way,。
if we're not willing to give up our own pride,。
our preference, our convenience,。
our comfort, or the illusion of control that we have,。
this command from Jesus will almost be impossible。
for us to live out.。
So if you have your Bible with you,。
let's turn with me to Matthew chapter five.。
We're gonna look from verse 43 to 48 today.。
So Matthew chapter five, 43 to 48.。
But before we dive into God's word,。
let's pray that his spirit will be with us。
as we open up his words.。
Father, we thank you that we're able。
to come into your house this morning。
to lift up our praise to worship you.。
And as we open up your words now,。
I just ask that your Holy Spirit will be with us.。
I ask that your words。
will not just be knowledge for us,。
but it will be truth that will be able。
to transform our life,。
so that we're able to live in a way。
that brings honors and glory to you.。
Amen.。
So, Matthew chapter five, verse 43.。
You have heard that it was said,。
love your neighbor and hate your enemy.。
But I tell you, love your enemies。
and pray for those who persecute you,。
that you may be children of your Father in heaven.。
He causes his son to rise on the evil。
and the good,。
and sends rain to the righteous and the unrighteous.。
If you love those who love you,。
what reward will you get?。
Are not even the tax collectors doing that?。
And if you greet only your own people,。
what are you doing more than others?。
Do not even the pagans do that.。
Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect.。
This is the word of God.。
So today, we actually come to the end of Matthew chapter five。
and our passage today serve as sort of a conclusion。
to this first major sections in the Sermon on the Mount,。
where we look at the relationship of the Old Testament law。
to the new covenant of Jesus.。
And if you can recall, we begin this section。
by looking at what a truly blessed life is.。
And we come to this truth that。
because Jesus has fulfilled the law and the prophet,。
to enter into his kingdom。
and to experience this truly blessed life,。
it doesn't depend on our own righteousness,。
but the righteousness of Jesus alone.。
And right after that,。
we look at a series of case studies on how Jesus,。
now being the definite interpreter of the law,。
redefines what true righteousness mean。
in his kingdom of heaven,。
in contrast to the righteousness according to the Pharisees,。
the teachers of the laws,。
or the Jewish religion or Jewish tradition.。
In the past couple months,。
we have looked at anger and murder,。
lust and adultery,。
divorce,。
making oath,。
and also the law of retribution.。
And how each and every time,。
Jesus shows us his better way and his greater righteousness。
that points back to God's original intention。
behind this law.。
If you remember, he always introduced them by saying,。
"You have heard that it was said, but I tell you this."。
So our passage this morning is actually the sixth。
and also the final examples。
that will pretty much sum up these entire sections.。
So for my sermon this morning,。
we will first look at the command from Jesus,。
and then we'll look at the reason behind his command,。
and then we will end with the ultimate goal.。
So the command, the reason, and the goal.。
So let's look at the first part, the command.。
Verse 43.。
You have heard that it was said,。
love your neighbor and hate your enemy.。
But I tell you, love your enemies。
and pray for those who persecute you.。
So once again, Jesus begins his teaching with this formula.。
You have heard that it was said.。
And the first half of this quote, to love your neighbor,。
actually comes from Leviticus 19.18.。
And alongside Deuteronomy 6.5, which is the Shema,。
to love your Lord your God with all your heart,。
with all your soul, with all your strength.。
Jesus, he sums up the entire Old Testament law。
with these two commandments later in the book of Matthew.。
As for the second half of this quote, hate your enemies,。
the origin of this second half is a little more ambiguous.。
In the book of Deuteronomy, as the people of Israel。
are about to enter into the promised land,。
the Lord gave them this instruction。
to drive out all the enemies or the inhabitants。
of the land of Canaan,。
and pretty much devote these people to destruction.。
And so this quote, to hate your enemy,。
may be an inference that is drawn。
from those passage in Deuteronomy.。
On the other hand, this idea of hating your enemy。
may also come as a logical conclusion。
from the command to love your neighbor.。
In Leviticus 19, when the Lord commanded the Israelites。
to love their neighbor, the neighbor there。
was clearly referring to a fellow Israelites.。
And so when it comes to Jesus' day,。
some of the Jewish people, they take this command。
and draw the conclusion that, okay,。
if we are only called to love our neighbors,。
that probably means we can hate our enemies.。
So do you see how twisted our human heart can be。
when we take a positive command from God。
to love our neighbor,。
and pretty much turn it into a license to hate?。
So how does Jesus address this false narrative。
and misunderstanding?。
Verse 44, "But I tell you, love your enemies。
"and pray for those who persecute you."。
So Jesus couldn't be any more clearer here,。
but to most of Jesus' Jewish audience at that time,。
this probably comes as quite a shocking command.。
And even for most of us today,。
I would assume that this is still quite a radical command。
and a tall task for us, right,。
to actually love our enemies.。
And one thing to clarify here,。
when we hear the word love,。
what are some of the things that come to your mind?。
I feel like in our current day and age,。
this word love has become like a catch-all phrase。
for all sorts of different ideas and different feelings。
and different thoughts, right?。
You might say, "Oh, I love pineapple on my pizza."。
Or you say, "Oh, I love the Chicago Bears.。
"I hope they do well this season."。
Or you might say to your significant others, "I love you."。
Or you say to God, "God, I love you."。
Do you notice the issues here?。
The word love has been used。
in such a wide range of applications。
that it has lost its significance。
when it comes to the way that Jesus。
and the Bible talks about love.。
And so when Jesus give us the command to love your enemy,。
what kind of love is he referring to?。
Is it the kind of love。
that you like to have pineapple on your pizza。
or the love that you have for your significant others?。
Well, love in the sense that Jesus talks about。
is not just about having a passion for something。
or a deep affection for someone。
because those feelings will fade over time, right?。
Yes, it is true that love includes all of those feelings,。
but more importantly, love is about action and commitment.。
And love entails accountability and responsibility.。
So let me read a passage from 1 John。
that will help us better understand what love is。
according to Jesus.。
So 1 John 3, 16.。
"This is how we know what love is.。
"Jesus Christ laid down his life for us,。
"and we ought to lay down our lives。
"for our brothers and sisters.。
"If anyone has material possessions。
"and sees a brother or sister in need。
"but has no pity on them,。
"how can the love of God be in that person?。
"Dear children, let us not love with words or speech,。
"but with actions and in truth."。
So church, love is more than just the feelings.。
I hope that doesn't come as a surprise for you,。
but it is also about actions and truth.。
This kind of love is generous,。
yet costly at the same time。
because it requires us to lay down our own kingdom。
and commit to seeking the good of others.。
In other words, this is a love。
that is shaped after Jesus and his cross.。
This is a kind of cruciform love.。
And this cruciform love model after Jesus。
is being lived out when we, as his followers,。
are able to actively love our enemies。
and genuinely pray for those who are hostile。
or unkind to us.。
And in the Greek grammar,。
both of the verb to love and to pray。
stress that this command is to be lived out now。
and not just towards a singular enemy,。
but to all who we consider as enemies.。
So is loving our enemies easy?。
Of course not.。
And is responding to kindness。
towards those who are hostile towards us。
a challenging task?。
Of course it is.。
This is because in our fallen and unglorified state,。
we all have an inward curse towards ourself,。
as St. Augustine has pointed out.。
That is the tendency to always focus inward on ourself,。
on our needs, on our desires,。
rather than on God and other people.。
So of course, to love our enemies。
and pray for those who persecute us。
is not going to come easy。
because it requires us to act in a way。
that is contrary to our human nature, corrupted by sin.。
But why does Jesus command us to do so right here?。
And even more, to use this command。
as a summary to his entire teaching。
regarding the better righteousness。
that is required to enter into his kingdom.。
So let us look at the why behind this command now.。
(silence)。
Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you。
in order that you may be children of your Father in heaven.。
He causes his son to rise on the evil and the good。
and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.。
So what is the reason behind Jesus' command。
to love our enemies?。
It is to imitate the character of our heavenly Father,。
who is gracious and compassionate,。
slow to anger and abounding in steadfast and loyal love.。
To love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us。
shows that we don't belong to this world,。
but we belong to another kingdom that is above.。
And moreover, God himself also loves impartially。
by bestowing his blessings on both the evil and the good,。
the righteous and the unrighteous.。
So yes, while loving our enemies is not easy,。
we are able to love radically because God loved us first,。
regardless of our actions.。
Paul in Romans 5 said this,。
"Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous person,。
"though for a good person,。
"someone might possibly dare to die.。
"But God demonstrate his own love for us in this.。
"While we were still sinners, Christ died for us."。
Did you catch that?。
While we were still sinners and enemies of God,。
Jesus Christ, the son of God, died for all of us.。
And so as God's people, we don't have the excuse。
to not love in the way that God loves us。
and loves in the way that reflects our heavenly father.。
Think of the most evil person。
that you can think of in your life,。
or someone that you would consider as your worst enemies.。
And guess what?。
He or she is still made in the image of God。
and deeply loved by God, our heavenly father.。
So again, as God's people,。
we are to reflect this loving character of our father,。
even towards those that we rather。
would have nothing to do with.。
Right?。
And then Jesus tries to bring his point home。
by using two rhetorical questions in verse 46 and 47.。
So if you are not familiar。
with what rhetorical questions are,。
these are questions posed usually to provoke thoughts。
rather than to actually get a response.。
And rhetorical questions,。
they have the functions of drawing attention to something。
or highlighting a point.。
So with these two rhetorical questions,。
Jesus is trying to draw his audience to his point.。
So verse 46,。
if you love those who love you,。
what reward will you get?。
Are not even the tax collectors doing that?。
So a little context about the tax collectors.。
Tax collectors during Jesus' times。
are being viewed as traitors,。
and they're people that are being despised by the Jews.。
So the tax collectors,。
they're usually Jewish people。
who works for the Roman government。
to collect taxes from their own people.。
And the common practice for these tax collectors。
is they're actually allowed to collect。
more than that is required,。
and then they can just pocket。
the rest of the money for themself.。
And so these Jewish tax collectors,。
they pretty much build their wealth。
by quote-unquote daylight robbing their own people,。
and that is why they're being despised by the Jews as well.。
And so what Jesus is trying to say here is this.。
Even the tax collectors whom all of you despise。
can reciprocate love to their friends.。
There's nothing to brag about it。
if you, as my followers,。
are able to love those who only love you back.。
And then Jesus continues, verse 47.。
And if you greet only your own people,。
what are you doing more than the others?。
Do not even the pagans do that?。
And so here from 46 to 47,。
Jesus moves from within the Jewish community。
to those who are outside the Jewish community now,。
and he used the Gentiles or the pagans as the examples.。
And greetings in that culture。
is closely tied to someone's social status as well.。
So especially for those who hold。
a higher social status in a society,。
they like to exchange greetings with other people。
so that they can hear other people calling them their title。
or kind of like highlighting their status, right?。
Again, the point that Jesus is trying to make is this.。
If the pagans or the Gentiles。
in which you Jewish people consider as inferior to you all,。
they are able to reciprocate the greetings。
that come from their own people.。
You all, as my disciples,。
you should be able to do much better.。
You should be able to show the same respect and honor。
to other people, including your enemies.。
(smacks lips)。
So at this point,。
we have gone through all six of these case studies。
or examples on what true righteousness is。
according to Jesus, right?。
And each and every time we see how Jesus redefines。
what true righteousness is compared to the law。
on how it was being understood by the Jewish people.。
And so what is the purpose of Jesus' teachings here。
in revealing the heart of God。
behind all these laws and commandment?。
What is the ultimate goal that Jesus has?。
Let us look at verse 48 here.。
"Be perfect therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect."。
Here, we see Jesus refers to the heavenly Father once again。
as the model for all of us to follow,。
recalling His command earlier to love our enemies。
and pray for those who persecute us。
in order that we can be children of our heavenly Father.。
On the surface level, this call to be perfect。
sounds kind of like a commandment that is almost impossible。
for us to achieve on this side of heaven, right?。
However, the word perfect here,。
instead of referring to absolute sinlessness。
or perfect in a way that is like blameless and never sin,。
the Greek word for perfect here, teleos,。
actually reflects more of the idea。
of wholeness or completeness.。
And besides, the idea of perfection。
that Jesus talks about here。
is actually more functional as well,。
rather than positional.。
What does that mean?。
So for example, if a thing is able to fulfill。
its intended purpose or function。
or reach its full development,。
it can be considered as perfect or teleos in that sense.。
So if a puppy is able to grow to its full-grown stature,。
it is considered as teleos.。
Or if this wireless microphone is able to function。
in the way that it is supposed to function。
and that it is created to function,。
it can be considered as teleos and perfect as well.。
And when it comes to us as human,。
this begs the question,。
what purpose are we as humans created for?。
As you all know, we as human,。
we are made in the image of God.。
And as image bearer and ambassador of God's kingdom,。
we are to reflect the character of our heavenly father。
and represent him in this world,。
just as a diplomatic ambassador。
will represent his or her country, right?。
And as we have seen in our passage,。
our heavenly father is one who loves impartially。
by making his son rise to both the good and the evil。
and causing rain to fall on both the righteous。
and the unrighteous.。
And in Romans 5, we see that he is a God。
who loves radically and generously。
by sending his own son to die in our place for our good.。
All this while we're still sinners and enemies of the cross.。
So when we are able to reproduce this kind of life。
that fully exemplifies the character of our heavenly father,。
one that is marked by radical,。
self-sacrificing, cruciform love,。
we fulfill the purpose in which we are made for.。
And therefore, we can be considered perfect。
or teleos in that sense.。
So to be perfect as our heavenly father is perfect。
means that conformity to the character of our God。
and the image of Christ should be the goal of our words,。
the goal of our actions, our thoughts,。
and the way we relate to those that are around us,。
friends and foes alike.。
So if you're taking notes, you can write this down.。
The point of all of this is as the children of God,。
we are called to a lifelong journey。
of becoming more and more like our heavenly father.。
Notice that this is not an instantaneous thing,。
that when we put our faith in Jesus,。
we instantly become like our heavenly father.。
But this is a lifelong journey.。
And this includes the way we relate to other people。
made in his image.。
If you recall our passage on anger and contempt,。
as well as on adultery and lust.。
And this also includes the way we view marriage and divorce,。
the way we use our words, whether we speak truthfully,。
the way we respond to evil,。
and ultimately, in the way we love other people,。
especially those that we consider as our enemies.。
And church, this is the surpassing righteousness。
that Jesus is referring to,。
one that is in perfect alignment。
with the heart of our heavenly father.。
So again, as the children of God,。
our goal on this side of heaven。
is to continually work towards becoming。
more and more like our heavenly father.。
So I just want to end with this story.。
So last Sunday, after our general assembly,。
if you were here, you might remember。
that there was just a huge thunderstorm, right?。
So after that, I offered to drive。
one of the members from UV home.。
But sometime between dropping him off。
and getting home myself,。
I think my car probably ran over some nail at some point.。
Because later that evening, when I was driving again,。
I started to notice some weird noise。
coming out from behind my car.。
And when I stopped and take a look,。
this is what I see.。
I had a flat tire.。
And at that point, I was only about 10 minutes。
away from home, so I'm like,。
okay, I'm not gonna call a tow truck or trip away。
because it might take them a while.。
And I'm so close to home,。
I'm just gonna drive home with this flat tire.。
But as I was driving, the noise just keep getting。
weirder and weirder and louder and louder.。
And me personally, I also became more and more frustrated.。
And in my mind, I was like,。
whoever is responsible for that nail。
like dropping on the street, like screw you.。
I hope you had a bad day.。
Monday morning came, I brought my car to the shop。
to get it fixed.。
And the first thing in the morning,。
like the very first thing in the morning,。
so that I can pretty much spend the rest of my day。
to have some like focus time to prepare。
for my sermon today.。
But as I read through this passage from Matthew five,。
with the frustration that I had。
towards the flat tire situation still fresh in my mind,。
this word really just stood out to me,。
to love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.。
And even though this is just such a small incident,。
I realized that for me to love and pray for whoever。
that is responsible for that nail,。
it doesn't come natural to me.。
I have to kind of like, in some ways, like humble myself。
and come before the Lord.。
It's like, okay, Lord, like that is not the way。
I should respond yesterday.。
And it takes a lot of intentionality out of me as well.。
So this call from Jesus to be perfect。
as our heavenly father is perfect,。
requires a lot of intentionality,。
as well as discipline.。
To understand our father's heart,。
we need to spend time with him.。
We need to immerse ourself in his words.。
And to become more like our father in heaven,。
we need to allow the Holy Spirit to work in our hearts。
and transform us from the inside out.。
The righteousness of Jesus。
is not about outward behavioral management,。
but it comes from a heart that is truly transformed。
by Jesus and his gospel.。
And this is a process that will last until the day。
that we're able to meet Jesus face-to-face.。
So it requires a posture of constant obedience。
and a process of constant surrendering。
in our day-to-day life.。
So I want to leave with these questions。
for us to reflect on.。
Who are some people whom you would consider。
as your enemies?。
Or who are some people who have wronged you?。
And in light of our passage this morning,。
how can you show the love of Christ to them。
in a way that reflect the love you have received。
from our heavenly father?。
So I'll have Amanda come up to。
play some background music。
and just take some time to reflect on it,。
and I will end this with a prayer in a couple of minutes.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(baby crying)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(thunder rumbling)。
(gentle music continues)。
Heavenly father,。
we thank you that while we were still sinners,。
while we were still enemies,。
you sent your son, Jesus Christ,。
to die on our behalf for our good.。
Help us, father, to be people。
that reflects your loving character to those around us.。
Help us to become people that love in a way。
that we're willing to sacrifice our own preference,。
our own comforts, our own conveniences.。
Help us to love in a way that when the world see us,。
that they will know that we belong to you,。
that we can bring glory and honor to your name.。
So again, father, thank you for your word this morning.。
We pray this in your son's name, amen.。
All right, thank you for joining us this morning.。
We will have some refreshment outside,。
so I encourage you all to stay after our service。
and just hang out, get to know some new people,。
and yeah, enjoy fellowship with one another.。
All right, go in peace, UV, your love.。
