By the one quick important reminder is that our brother Cal it。
sees this from Lebanon's。
Lebanon and he's a Lebanese brother and。
he is preparing lunch for us and so right after service you will be able to experience some。
Mediterranean Arabic hospitality and。
He spent hours and hours and he and his friend and maybe jaws is going to go out and to help him, right?。
Yeah, some of the brothers are helping helping him to prepare。
some hummus。
and pita bread and。
Kabob, right?。
So you're gonna enjoy it when he was。
preparing for for the。
Lunch or refreshment today. I was helping him yesterday actually so I bought I brought my。
charcoal grill。
To to the church and so I think they are grilling the meat and I was I was kindly reminded。
the Mediterranean。
Arabic。
Hospitality, it's like that. You know, they want to go all out. You know, they want to go all you go to a。
Arab family。
They invite you in and they will do everything to make sure you are being on the guest。
So that's that's how they the the honor。
people in their lives and I'm very thankful for。
Califor coming to know Christ and finding。
this church to be his spiritual home for now and。
So so just want to remind you right after this I know you're hungry I know you're hungry that's why you late, right。
You're hungry, right, especially after the service, but you know go enjoy some hummus, right go enjoy some。
Arabic food Lebanese food. All right。
Anyways, we are coming back to this。
Series called back to basics and I want you to remember and practice some of the basic。
Habits, you know in in your Christian life and if we have those slide ready, we will。
first reveal the verse of the week and。
This verse of the week is if you have the Bible, I don't have a slide yet。
You have the Bible, please go to。
Philippines the bow Philippines chapter 4. Yeah, Phoebe. Can I have the slide please?。
Anyways, we'll go to chapter 4 verse 6 and 7 verse 6 and 7. All right。
Here it says don't worry。
Here we go. Don't worry about anything。
Instead pray about everything tell God what you need and thank him for what he has done。
Then you will experience God's peace which exceeds anything you can understand。
His peace will guard your hearts and minds as you live in Christ Jesus。
Philippians 4。
Verses 6 to 7 what a wonderful verse right? What a wonderful sentence or a paragraph。
to。
Tell us, you know, especially those of us who worry some。
Worry a lot and overthinking a lot. Are there anyone here?。
You constantly overthink you constantly think a lot, you know about your future about you know issues or problems。
This verse gives you peace. Don't worry about anything instead pray about everything now。
I want to let you to understand this is taken from the book of or the letter to the Philippines and。
what this letter is as you understand the New Testament has a total of。
27 books or 27。
You know pieces of writings some of them are letters. Some of them are stories。
Some of them are histories and you know different different types of literature。
But if you go to the New Testament Bible。
there were 27 books there or 27 writings and some of the writings we call epistles or letters and。
Many of the letters are actually written from a pastor。
From a pastor leader to a church a very very small church。
very very small house churches in different cities and here we find the letter of。
Letter to the to the to the Philippines and it's written by Paul the Apostle Paul the pastor Paul and。
He wrote this letter。
Call we call the letter to the Philippines and writing to the Christians the house churches in。
Philippi one of the Roman。
Quarantine in in in Greece and。
If you read this letter。
There were only four chapters is very very short。
Book a very very short letter you can sense that this is a personal letter。
With with a lot of personal tones a lot of personal。
Feeling to it and。
There are two reasons why。
first because。
Paul actually found this church。
He established this church in his second missionary journey if you check the book of Acts, which is the history of the earliest。
the first generation。
Christians you'll find some of the stories that Paul。
came to the city called of Philippi is a Roman city and。
He tried to preach the gospel and some of the individuals came to faith and he established the church。
And he's like a father to the church in Philippi。
He's like a father to the Christians the Philippian Christians. And the second reason is the church has been。
supporting Paul。
and his mission and his。
ministry and sometimes they send。
the supplies or。
Essentials to Paul and at this point when when when Paul write this letter the letter to the Philippines。
He was in prison。
He was in Rome. He was in the capital city of the Roman Empire。
He was right there in house arrest。
for almost two years as far as we can reconstruct the。
The last few years of Paul and he was waiting for trial because he want to appeal to Caesar the king。
the Emperor of Roman Empire and。
He did not know the result yet。
He was in house arrest and in his house arrest in the Roman world. You can still receive, you know information from other people。
You can receive visitors. You can have friends and you can send letters and that's the context of the Philippian。
Letter and in this in this letter you get the sense that you know, he's trying to reply to something。
Because we find some verses in this fourth chapter the book of Philippians that Paul is trying to thank。
The church in Philippi, right? He was in Rome, right and。
The Philippian Christians are in Philippi and they send someone to to give the essentials or offer essentials to support。
Paul while he was in prison and。
For example, you can go to the last chapter chapter 4。
417 what does he say? He say I don't say this because I want a gift from you。
In other words a possible receive a gift a financial gift from the church in Philippi rather。
I want you guys to receive a reward for your kindness at the moment。
I have all I need and more more than enough。
I'm generously supplied with the gifts you send me with。
Epaphroditus Epaphroditus and they are sweet smelling sacrifice that is acceptable and pleasing to God now。
Who's this guy before Titus?。
It has to be a member or even a leader from the church in Philippi and he traveled all the way。
to come to Rome to find Paul in house arrest and give him some。
Essentials probably some food items probably some clothes or anything that he needs in two years and constantly he does so and。
Epaphroditus is kind of like, you know, kind of like a UPS, you know a delivery delivery guy or uber eat, you know。
he's gonna support Paul and make sure he's being fed and he's he's being strengthened and to help him and to stay with Paul and。
From the letter we see that Epaphroditus was really sick。
It's probably because he travels so much to help Paul。
and maybe he was got so sick and even to the point of death and。
He was by the side of Paul and Paul is really really。
worried about this brother and maybe because。
Paul and。
Epaphroditus they talk about。
the church and there was so much anxiety for the church because the small church is under a lot of pressure and。
oppositions and Paul want to send Epaphroditus back to the church in。
Philippi and he wants to send Epaphroditus back with a letter and this is the letter。
Right the letter to the Philippians and he you can imagine he's just quickly grab some。
parchment paper and write a letter in four chapters a very very short a very personal letter and send it with the。
Mailman, you know the UPS guy Epaphroditus and send him back to。
Philippi and that's how we find the letter to the Philippines and finally we come to the。
last chapter chapter 4 and。
And Paul is trying to close the letter and he's trying to you know。
Give give his encouragement as much as he can in this letter and chapter 4 verse 1。
He said therefore brothers and sisters you whom I love and long for my crown and my joy。
You got that personal tone。
It's a personal letter and that's how you should stand firm in Lord dear friends. I。
Plead with you dire and I plead with。
Syntaghy to agree with each other in the Lord and yes, I ask you loyal your fellow。
hope this women who have contended at my side in the cause of gospel along with。
Clement and the rest of fellow workers whose name are in the book of life rejoice in the Lord always I say again。
Rejoice, let your gentleness be evident to all and the Lord is near。
Now that's the closing chapter right there. There are two women being named here, right you dire and。
Synecdoche, right, but perhaps these two women are。
Some of the leaders。
In in Philippi some of the leaders of a church。
perhaps they invite the church or fellowship to the living room and have the house churches meeting possible and。
These two women and from from the context, you know, these two women don't agree with each other。
Right, they got some tension inattention or probably。
Disagreement for some reason they were in disagreement and Paul is writing this letter encourage them to be united。
To be of one heart right and that's actually the tone for the entire letter。
Paul the pastor wants the church to work in unity。
To along with other people like Clement right other fellow workers。
So that brings him joy, right and you know from from the wording he used。
The communities in Philippi they are working toward that goal already。
So Paul is trying to encourage them to continue to work in unity and that brings him joy。
Right the entire letter only four chapters, but over and over again。
Paul is expressing his joy and he's happy。
He's joyful。
because of the gospel。
Because the church is being established because the church is trying to stand up and be strengthened in faith. And this is a powerful。
Passage because as you can imagine someone who is in house arrest and。
You just don't know what it will turn out to be。
Right, whether you will live or where you would die, right?。
he is waiting to be to go on trial and。
He was in house arrest and he was in prison and just such powerful。
Wordings that he was trying to use you guys are my joy and my crown and there's a secret here。
Why did Paul do that? How could Paul do that? You know, imagine you're in prison, right or in house arrest。
right。
And you can't go anywhere。
You don't have your strip of your freedom, right and you are being mistreated。
What is the secret of being joyful here?。
You can tell from verse 3。
Paul says all of their names are written in the book of life, right the book of life。
You believe in Christ Jesus if you trust holy trust in the name of Jesus your name。
Is in the book of life, right?。
Your eternity is secure, right? You are on。
the team of team Jesus, right, you know, the Olympic has。
begun and。
there were different athletes right and。
The they they are honored to join team USA, right or the team of the country, right?。
Just joining the team the name being on the team is such an such an honor, right?。
Right. Yeah, you can imagine if your name is on team USA, right? What kind of honor would that be?。
Right, we're gonna throw a big party for you, right too bad. Your name is not there, right?。
Yeah, but your name is on team USA you get the honor and you are happy, right?。
And that's the secret of a Paul。
It's if your name is in the book of life。
You have the ground to be joyful, right? You're joyful not because you are successful。
You're not you're not because because you're not you're not you're not joyful because you're successful in the in the worldly perspective。
You're joyful because your name is in the kingdom, right?。
And then he goes on to encourage the questions encourage us that the Lord is near。
Right now it is usually translated in the in the sense of time, you know temporal sense。
The Lord is near meaning Jesus is coming anytime。
It's just coming anytime soon, right? It can be today. It can be the next hour。
It can be five years later anytime right Jesus coming second coming is right around the corner。
That's the temporal sense. But you know here another sense is is often forgotten。
In those words the Lord is near。
It's the spatial sense。
So what Paul is saying is that the Lord is near Jesus is near is that Jesus is right by your side。
Jesus is present with you if you're facing difficulties or you're facing some sadness and depressed。
moments in your life。
Know that you know, the Lord is right next to you。
Right right beside you. The Lord is near he is someone you can trust。
He's right next to you and it makes a world whole world of difference, right?。
It makes a whole world difference knowing that there's supporting friend right next to you。
Right when you are feeling down when you're feeling bad or sad, right?。
I usually。
visit。
People who are sick in the hospital, right and you can tell from their eyes。
When you go in and you preach you are present with them。
They are encouraged right? They are comforted and。
That's why it's hopeful for many of us to sometimes to talk to someone who is wiser。
Like a wise counselor, right? Either professional counselor or you know a layman。
Find someone who can talk to you find someone who can listen to you to understand。
Your voice right understand your mind。
That is so important. And and that's what it means. The Lord is near right friends if you're going through some down period。
If you're going through some difficult time know that the Lord Jesus is near。
He is right next to you and Paul goes on to talk about one of the basic practice。
Of Christians and don't forget that he said do not be anxious。
That's NIV do not be anxious about anything but in everything by prayer and petition。
With Thanksgiving present your request to God and the peace of God which transcends all。
Human understanding will guard your heart and your minds in Christ Jesus。
he says。
Don't worry。
Right. Don't worry。
Don't worry too much。
Don't be too anxious about anything or perhaps our essentials, right?。
Don't be anxious about anything but in everything you pray and you present your petition to God, right?。
They're almost synonyms prayer and petition。
not the exact wording but you know words that。
Express our way of you know。
Talking to God right and that is prayer. That is the basic practice that we all have. Let me ask you this。
Do you pray?。
Constantly regularly。
Every day. I want to encourage you you take 10 minutes of。
The best time of the day to pray to God right now so often we we we misunderstand。
What prayer is right? Sometimes we think prayer has to be in some sort of using some some sort of big words, right?。
Beautiful words so we can approach God that way. No, that is not the spirit of prayer。
I still remember the first year in in seminary。
I was taking a class and there's a very very。
old and wise professor。
Hey, he always begins the class with prayer and end the class with prayer and when he prays。
No, it's just beautiful prayer。
He uses King James Version English to pray。
You know Tao T and it's just beautiful right because he grew up in the Christian family。
Very devout Christian and he used to that kind of language, you know, King James。
It's very very old old English. But you know when you hear his prayer, you just feel like my goodness。
This is beautiful。
Every time he he opened his mouth. It's like writing poem, right?。
Do we have to pray like that?。
No, we don't right, you know one of the shortest prayers in the Bible。
remember that is。
Lord help me。
That's one of the shortest prayers in the Bible right so his prayer in the Bible the spirit of prayer is authentic。
sincere honest and open you just tell God what you need and how you feel right and。
It's kind of like baby talking to to daddy and mommy。
Right. Do we as as dad and mom do we mind the young child?。
Not knowing what to say and you know, just bah bah bah all the time, right? We love those those voices, right?。
To make known right his or her feeling that that's how we approach God, you know。
Will prayer is authentic。
Authentic sincere honest and open right and we need to practice that right?。
We need to practice that and then Thanksgiving。
He said by prayer and petition with Thanksgiving, right?。
When you when you cultivate the spirit of being thankful。
You are constantly reminded。
What God has done in your lives, right?。
Sometimes we are so overwhelmed by you know, the problems that we have right the worries that you know in our mind。
And then we forget。
No, God has been good to us, right?。
God has been good to us in the past and that's why we can keep on。
Trusting him right there. God has the track record, right?。
of being good to us。
And that reminder will help us。
To worry less right a christian author。
Says listen up christian author says this. I think it says it's very very。
correctly。
The way to be anxious about nothing。
Is to be prayerful。
about everything。
The way to be anxious about nothing。
Is to be prayerful。
about everything。
Right. What a wonderful reminder, right?。
We come here. Paul says don't be anxious about anything but in prayer petition and thanksgiving。
You come before God, right? And that's a wonderful verse, right? But it's also interesting, right?。
you know you think about it from a。
Just our our human perspective if God wants us to worry less。
Why doesn't God just give us everything that we ask for right? Do you want a bigger house?。
Do you want to win the the lottery。
And retire early right is sitting by the beach of cancun, you know all the time, right, you know sipping。
You know pina colada all day。
Don't you want that?。
Right. Don't you think you need that?。
You want bigger bigger car or a better car, right?。
Um money, you know lottery new house right new car right, you know。
Uh, you think God God would be good to us if if if God just shower us with。
all this material possessions。
You think you think that's the goodness of God?。
You say so right you say so but you know what if if you have all that you want, right?。
Sometimes your spirit is poor。
Right because it doesn't build up your character。
Right, it doesn't give you the strong spirit to withstand changes to withstand difficulties, right?。
And that's why paul is saying, you know。
God treats us。
in a different way。
God gives you peace。
Right god gives you peace。
And peace that is beyond human understanding transcends all understanding and talking about peace。
You know to the uh to the years of uh, the philippians in the roman city roman colony。
And uh, they should uh, they should immediately understand what it means peace, right?。
Sometimes we read the word peace we use our understanding。
uh。
And our perception but in the to the roman。
To the romans and and philippian, uh, they're living in a roman city a military city。
They do know what peace is right and there's a slogan。
Back in the uh, first century roman empire is pax romana, right pax romana latin。
It means roman peace, right? You know what what roman peace is?。
You know, uh, rome is a dictator, right?。
Roman peace means I beat you up。
And then you're gonna obey me right I conquer you right and you're not gonna do uh。
You're not gonna be rebellious. You're not gonna rebel against me. That is called peace, right? That is roman peace。
Pax romana, right? I was trying to organize some of the materials lately and uh, I find this uh, roman coins。
Golden coins and what we call this kind of coins are first jewish revolt coins。
You know the first jewish revolt happened in uh, a d uh, 66 to 70。
Those few years, uh, some of the jewish people especially in judea in jerusalem. They rebelled against rome and they fought against rome。
and um, of course they。
Um, ultimately they failed right and the roman army came to palestine and suppressed the revolt。
And after the suppression after roman, uh, the romans conquered, uh, all those, uh,。
rebellious people。
uh, they。
Will uh, they will send a propaganda to the entire empire by minting coins。
And coins with a message, right?。
You know coins have message, right?。
And on the left you see there's a military victory。
procession。
And all the armies and horses, you know and with a horn, you know proclaiming the victory of rome and in front of it。
The little guy, you know the first guy in the procession。
Uh, he has a name。
And his name is simon。
simon son of。
Uh, gilora。
And he's one of the leaders。
of the uh first jewish revolt。
And uh, the romans came and say we are triumph over you. Okay, right and we beat you up。
And you are the head of the procession and we're going to tell other people all the tribes in all the nations。
That we are the winner and you are the loser, right?。
And then who's the winner?。
that's bastion。
The middle the middle face middle face of a coin, right? That is one of the roman empires。
emperors。
And on the right you see the word judea。
Can you make make it out judea?。
And it's a woman。
captive。
You know being bound。
of her hands。
sitting at the foot of uh, uh the palm tree。
And she was defeated。
right, she was crying she was weeping because。
She has no judea has lost the battle, right?。
Now what I want to tell you is this is the room. This is the roman peace。
This is the peace of roman empire they beat you up, right?。
So you cannot rebel anymore, right? And philipi was guarded heavily by。
uh roman。
roman military units。
And if you live in philipi, if you're one of those who read the letter of philippians。
You understand you because you will see soldiers all around you, right?。
Every single city gates you will see roman soldiers heavily guarding the city, right?。
Roman army is to guarantee the roman peace, right?。
That is the peace that they understood。
right。
roman peace。
I still remember, uh the first year of the pandemic。
Remember that we have national guards here。
You know guarding the in and out of downtown。
Remember that?。
You know, they they got uh, you know military trucks and uh, you know all over the cities, right?。
And I remember I have to help uh international student to move。
and uh, I I rent an。
a 10-foot u-haul。
And she has to move out of the uh, you know the the building in downtown。
And I I drove that u-haul。
You know across all the checkpoints, right?。
Dude, I was so scared, right? Well, what are you doing? You know people are using u-haul to。
you know to to to uh。
To to break break down the wall and uh steal things right?。
And it was pretty scary right? I have to talk to the guard and you know, I I'm a pastor。
I'm helping I want people to move, you know, I know this is a bad time, but you know。
The street is like a ghost town, right?。
Do you think that was peace。
In a way it was right, we're quite peaceful。
It's quite peaceful nobody on the street, right?。
But that is the roman peace。
The peace that paul talks about is the peace。
of god。
Right the peace that we find in jesus christ。
And first of all that peace is that we have a restore。
Relationship with god the father right in jesus because of the cross that we have that peace that ultimate peace。
Restore relationship with our creator with our father. We can call him father。
We are sons and daughters and that is the peace talk paul talks about peace given by god, right?。
So paul pictures god's peace。
as the garrison。
As military soldiers keeping guard。
Over your hearts and your minds to protect you from all kinds of attacks。
that is。
the peace of god。
And that's why it's beyond human understanding。
Right, you know that your eternal destiny is secure in christ。
You know, your identity is secure in christ。
And you are not shaken。
No matter what comes your way, right?。
sickness。
right separation。
Heartbrokenness。
All this all these issues are coming in your way。
If you know that your identity is secure。
You have peace and that is the peace from god, right?。
And we can rely on god。
You know, rachel has been driving a lot these days, uh, I told you, you know in the in the beginning a couple years ago。
She hates driving。
Now she likes driving。
She enjoys driving。
And um, you know, she drives one of our old cars。
and uh, she always always comes on, uh, she always comes home and uh,。
uh, tell me。
with a little phrase。
And she said dad, uh, the car is low on gas。
The car's low on gas and she didn't say anything right because she trusts。
That i'm the i'm the good father, right? I'm gonna add uh gasoline to the car when the gas is low, right?。
And um, I really admire that kind of chill out spirit。
Uh, you know just trusting me that I will always provide right? I will always provide。
Yeah。
I think that kind of spirit we need to have。
Without god, right。
We're low on gas。
And father heavenly daddy, we're low on gas。
And that is the spirit of prayer, right? That is the spirit of prayer。
We come before god. We are open. We come before god. We are sincere and honest and that is。
Our daily prayer life, right?。
Come before god to tell him our request。
Tell him our feelings。
Tell him what is what is going on in your life?。
And god is there to listen and the lord is near。
That is the mentality of paul, right? He was in prison. Remember?。
He was um。
under a lot of pressure。
Uh opposition there was no light at the end end of tunnel。
He just doesn't know what the future holds for him. But there was a habit in paul. There was a habit of uh,。
of a faithful living。
To pray and to be thankful all the time, right?。
That takes care of a lot of different issues and worries。
Beyond our thinking beyond our reasoning, right? Don't we all don't we all overthink, you know from time to time?。
Right. We thought that we think that our thinking can can take care of things. No, we don't right and paul is saying and。
Trust trust in god。
Right and the peace of god will be with you。
You know, I watched the uh。
olympic game opening。
And one of the uh, most inspiring moments。
is celine dion。
You watch that celine dion present。
her uh singing。
It's just inspiring right, you know in the past few years she has gone through just。
Just no enormous difficulties, right? Yeah losing losing family member。
um, you know, uh。
You know where disease, you know striking her。
but um。
She keeps on fighting, right?。
You know, it doesn't come overnight, you know that kind of spirit doesn't come overnight。
Because she has been a fighter。
For so long right she had this habit this pattern of life this perspective of life to keep on fighting, right?。
Here we see this we see the spirit in paul。
And paul is trying to encourage us. Hey。
You know。
God is with you。
Trust in him, right?。
pray。
So I want to encourage you to uh to develop。
A constant prayer life. It's very simple. There's no it's not rocket science, right?。
Uh, take 10 minutes。
The best time of your day。
To pray to god, right? You can take pray verbally。
And even non-verbally right and god knows, uh your heart, right。
Let's do that。
and um before we conclude。
Uh, let's recite this, uh, wonderful passage again, right?。
See。
philippians 4 6 to 7。
Don't worry about anything instead pray about everything。
Tell god what you need and thank him for all he has done。
Then you will experience god's peace。
Which exceeds anything we can understand?。
His peace will guard your heart and mind as you live in christ. Jesus。
That's our prayer。
Father no matter what life comes。
In our way and we come before you。
Knowing that you are near。
You're right next to us。
As we close our eyes and bow our head. We know that you are with us。
You're right next to us。
You know what we are going through。
Either it's loneliness sadness。
Uncertainty some difficulties in our lives。
on。
Just so many problems in our lives。
We know that you care for us。
And thank you for calling us to be your sons and daughters。
We come before you to pray。
With an open heart。
Authentic spirit。
Sincere mind knowing that you listen to us。
You hear our prayer and you care for us。
And may your peace your peace that goes beyond worldly understanding。
Will dwell in our heart and be the core of our strength。
So we continue to live in christ jesus send us out from here。
Uh to our school to our workplace to our ministries。
And may your peace guard our hearts and mind this week。
Thank you in christ name pray。
Well, make sure you uh stay。
uh for our。
I don't know refreshment or or meal right? Uh, it should be ready by now and uh, you go ahead to uh the cafe。
And we're gonna enjoy some uh time of table fellowship together. All right. God bless。
