(audience applauding)。
- Thank you so much for having me back.。
It's good to see everybody.。
And actually the group is larger。
than the last time I was here.。
I didn't look back behind me.。
We know when I was sitting in the front row。
to see what was happening behind me.。
But one thing I noticed that's kind of interesting。
about churches is that the most desirable seat in a church。
is usually in the back row.。
I don't know why that is.。
And the reason I think I was thinking about that is,。
you know, this morning when I saw Rachel,。
she was wearing this Cornelius Street shirt。
and I don't know anything about Cornelius Street.。
She shared the reference with me about Taylor Swift.。
And the sermon's not about her, so don't worry.。
But I thought about, you know, when I was younger,。
I used to go to a lot of rock concerts too.。
And I know it's still the case。
that the most desirable seat, the most expensive seat,。
the best seat in the house is in the front row, right?。
You wanna be as close to the action as possible.。
You don't wanna have to look at。
what's happening through binoculars.。
I did that once at a theater, at a live theater,。
and I was like, this is the worst experience ever.。
You know, I'll never do this again.。
If I can't get a good seat,。
I'm not gonna go to the theater.。
So I would encourage you,。
if you're used to being in the last row,。
check out the action in the front row, okay?。
At least try it, okay?。
So let's go to God's word first.。
And the passage we're looking at。
is a very familiar passage.。
And it's in Matthew 6, chapter 33 to 34.。
And this is what it says.。
But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness。
and all these things will be given to you as well.。
Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow,。
for tomorrow will worry about itself.。
Each day has enough trouble of its own.。
So I wanna thank you for coming together as the UV family.。
You know, there's a lot of things。
you could probably be doing this afternoon,。
but you are here.。
And I believe that you are at the right place。
at the right time, and that God has brought you here。
because not only is the Lord here。
to receive worship from you,。
but he has something he wants to give you.。
He has something he wants to give you.。
And so I hope we'll approach our hour or so together。
with this attitude of seeking Lord,。
what is it you have for me today?。
So let's pray.。
So we do ask you, Lord, what is it you have for us today?。
We have tried to bring you our worship,。
bring you our very best, even in our tithes and offerings,。
in the way that we serve one another。
and serve our community, we do it for you.。
We are bringing our best to you.。
But Lord, thank you that you are a God。
who is open-handed, that you're not stingy,。
but you are generous.。
In fact, we say you show us amazing grace。
because you give us better than we deserve.。
And so we ask you, what do you have for us today, Lord?。
Not only are we your servants, but we are your children。
before a wonderful heavenly father.。
And we are ready to receive from you.。
Open our ears, our hearts are open too.。
And we pray that you will give to us。
so that we can bring you even more glory.。
We pray in Jesus' name, amen.。
So you know, friends, it's no secret,。
we've been living in a age, a time, a season of life。
that is so filled with problems, so many stresses,。
so many troubles, worries, so many things。
that can cause fear.。
And you know, I'm not gonna tire you with the list。
of all the things that we're sharing together.。
And as much as the season has all these problems。
and troubles, all these things that might cause us。
to worry and be afraid, that doesn't even count.。
Like, what are you experiencing?。
What are your unique sets of problems?。
Problems, needs, desires?。
What's stressing you out?。
What's causing you to lose sleep?。
What's causing you to wring your hands。
and wonder what's next?。
And I wanna tell you, Jesus has an answer for you.。
It's in verse 34.。
And it says, Jesus said,。
"Therefore do not worry about tomorrow,。
"for tomorrow will worry about itself.。
"Each day has trouble of its own."。
Doesn't that bless you?。
That's enough, right?。
We can just pack it up and go home now.。
'Cause Jesus said, "Don't worry."。
You know, by itself, this verse actually sounds pretty cold,。
brutally cold.。
Like, Jesus is, it sounds like he's saying, like,。
"Come on, just get over it.。
"Don't worry."。
But see, it's not a verse that just stands by itself。
or a sentence that stands by itself.。
It is in the context of something bigger.。
And like any good Bible student,。
we should be concerned about context, right?。
We already know how dangerous it is。
to hear a piece of news out of context。
and think, "Oh, I understand what's going on."。
But we may have no idea what's actually going on,。
what the person actually meant when they said it, right?。
But in context, we get the picture。
of what is the person saying?。
So we don't wanna just go with a soundbite from Jesus.。
We wanna hear what is his message for us today?。
So we gotta look at the verse before.。
And it says, "But seek first the kingdom of God,。
"or seek first his kingdom and his righteousness。
"and all these things will be given to you as well."。
So let's kind of unpack this going backwards。
as we've already done, starting with verse 34,。
and then go to verse 33,。
which is really gonna be our key text today.。
With all that we're experiencing,。
verse 33, Jesus tries to center us.。
He tries to prioritize us.。
And even though he starts by saying,。
"Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness,。
"I know everybody's attention went to,。
"and all these things will be added to you," right?。
So let's get that out of the way。
so that you're not distracted by the whole time。
wondering what are all these things。
that he's gonna give me, right?。
So let's go through it.。
And again, in context,。
we are in the midst of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount.。
It began in chapter five.。
And in the beginning of chapter five,。
it starts with Jesus promising。
that God our Father has a response.。
He's not sitting idly and quietly。
and hiding in the shadows,。
but he has a response for those who are poor,。
those who mourn, those who are gentle,。
who seek righteousness or justice,。
who need mercy, who desire to be pure in heart,。
who desire peace, who are persecuted.。
God has a response.。
God has something for us.。
We find that in the Beatitudes, as we call them.。
And then there's this big section。
that covers from chapter five through chapter six,。
and it has to do with our spirituality,。
our relationship with God.。
And so he covers the law,。
spiritual disciplines like piety,。
generosity, fasting, and prayer.。
He talks about how should our attitude be about wealth.。
So spiritual disciplines.。
And then finally, he covers basic necessities.。
Basic necessities.。
Concerns about food, water, clothing,。
survival, a longer life.。
And are any of these of concern for you?。
Are any of these things that keep you up at night?。
You know, most of us in America,。
you know, we don't miss any meals.。
We're not, unless, I guess, unless we're on a diet。
and we choose to miss a meal.。
Nobody is really going thirsty.。
You know, water is so readily available, fresh, clean water.。
And then nobody's walking around naked。
unless they decide to do that, right?。
It's not for lack of clothing.。
And yet there are people all over the world。
who are struggling with these concerns every day.。
And not to mention all the other ones,。
starting from the beginning of chapter five.。
And I just did a quick Google search。
and I just asked the question,。
is food insecurity better or worse?。
Is it getting better or worse today?。
And I was surprised with all the attention to ending hunger,。
that according to Google,。
food insecurity is getting worse in the world.。
And then I thought, you know, I'll ask one more question.。
Is abject poverty, that's extreme poverty,。
is it getting better or worse in the world?。
And I was surprised again.。
It's getting worse.。
Approximately 10% of the world is hungry.。
About 10% of the world is facing abject poverty.。
Wow, this is a word from Jesus.。
And I think this speaks not only to us。
and all the needs and worries we have, but to the world.。
So let's be ready to receive this.。
So Jesus says in chapter six, verse 25 to 32,。
he says, don't worry about your life.。
You know, I should ask, how many people remember the last,。
who was here the last time I came to visit?。
Any hands?。
Only Pastor Mark, everybody else?。
Okay, just a few people.。
So I wanna ask our worship leader,。
do you remember what I preached on last time?。
Okay, I'm just kidding.。
I had to look it up。
'cause I couldn't remember what I preached on.。
I just, I look it up because I wanna make sure。
I don't preach the same message again。
and just because that sometimes happens, right?。
But I preached on a text that was earlier,。
right before this text.。
And I didn't intentionally choose this text today,。
thinking, oh, you know,。
because I preached on the section before,。
it'd be natural to preach on.。
It just, this is something that the Lord。
has just laid on my heart.。
And, but the last time I preached,。
I talked about how our heavenly Father。
knows our needs before we even ask.。
That was basically the gist of the message.。
And that Jesus is saying,。
don't worry about your life and what you need.。
Don't be like the Gentiles who are fixated。
and consumed with the pursuit of these things.。
All these things that cause this universal worry。
and stress on our lives.。
Jesus was speaking to a largely Jewish audience.。
So it would have been,。
he's saying, don't be like the Gentiles,。
like the rest of the nations or the pagans,。
the idol worshipers.。
Don't be like them who worship dead gods.。
Today, if he was saying it,。
it might sound more like,。
you are worshipers of a living God.。
So behave like people who have a living God,。
who actually hears what you need,。
but also already knows what you need.。
And because he loves you and he is gracious,。
he's already at work.。
He's already on the job,。
taking care of what we need.。
God's got this.。
Know with certainty,。
God loves you and he's taking care of you.。
So don't be distracted by these things.。
Don't be distracted by concerns for things。
that our loving and capable father。
can already take care of.。
Instead, seek first the kingdom of God.。
Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness。
and all these other things will be taken care of,。
will be provided for you.。
So what does it mean then to seek something first?。
I mean, this might seem really like kind of pedantic,。
you're like, why say it?。
But I think it needs to be said。
'cause it's in the text, right?。
What does it mean to seek something first?。
It has to do with, it speaks with,。
what is your greatest passion and desire,。
your most important, highest priority pursuits?。
What are you intentionally chasing after。
with the most determination and fixation?。
Think about that.。
What are you chasing after?。
With everything you've got,。
in your heart you've said to yourself,。
I must do this, I must have this,。
this is worthy of whatever it takes.。
What is that thing?。
And so many of us, especially we got a young audience here,。
we're thinking about our education and our careers,。
finding the love of our lives,。
building a family, paying the bills.。
Maybe it goes a little farther。
and you're consumed with, I must be wealthy one day.。
I must have this kind of house or this kind of watch.。
I must have these things.。
Is that what consumes your whatever it takes?。
I must have this, I must do this.。
Jesus says, seek first his kingdom and his righteousness。
so that everything else will be provided for you.。
And so what is the kingdom?。
The Bible and the New Testament talks about the kingdom。
in so many ways, Jesus talks about it often in parables.。
And he says, the kingdom is like yeast.。
It permeates and it penetrates.。
And it's not something you can simply point at。
and say like, there it is.。
Or look, here it is.。
Because the kingdom of God is also in our midst.。
It's like the air that we breathe.。
It's present even when we don't recognize it,。
it's present even when we refuse to see it or acknowledge it。
even when we insist on denying it,。
the kingdom of God is there.。
We behold the miracles of God and the kingdom is there.。
The kingdom of God grows and bears fruit。
and the kingdom bears the fruit with or without us.。
With or without us.。
The kingdom might seem small to some。
and so hard to notice,。
but the kingdom of God is also so big,。
so much bigger than anything we could imagine.。
You know that we're told the kingdom of God。
is evidenced by the side effects.。
When we see certain characteristics,。
we know that the kingdom of God is there,。
just like when we see the wind blow,。
we know the wind is there.。
Or when we see the leaves move, we know the wind is there.。
Or when we see certain signs in the weather,。
we know that seasons are changing.。
And then we're also told we have to receive it like a child。
and unless someone is born again,。
they cannot see the kingdom of God.。
Jesus, John the Baptist and the apostles。
spent a lot of time talking about the kingdom of God.。
So what is the kingdom of God?。
I like easy.。
So I'm gonna boil it down,。
maybe as much as that you can possibly boil something down.。
Somebody once said, this isn't mine,。
but when I heard it, I said, I'm gonna use that。
because that makes sense to me。
'cause I'm not smart, that's easy.。
You know what it is?。
They said, whenever you see God get his way,。
you're seeing the kingdom of God.。
Did you get that?。
Whenever God gets his way,。
it's the kingdom of God you're seeing.。
So when you make a decision, I'm not gonna do it my way,。
but I'm gonna do it God's way,。
that's the kingdom of God at work.。
When you see somebody choose God and not something else,。
we're seeing the kingdom of God at play.。
When the king gets his way, we see his kingdom.。
There are literally thousands, no, millions。
of books, articles, sermons, lessons。
that have been taught on this and written on this,。
but it's when God gets his way.。
Are you seeking first that God would get his way。
in your life?。
'Cause that's where it starts.。
God, I am surrendering right now.。
I'm not gonna hang on to anything,。
I'm letting it all go and saying, have your way in me.。
That's hard.。
It's hard to let it all go and say,。
I'm gonna seek your kingdom first.。
And then, are you praying that people around you,。
your friends, your family, your boss, your neighbors,。
are you praying that the people around you,。
your church, would have God's way,。
that they would choose God?。
I mean, isn't that what we're praying。
when we're praying for our brother。
who doesn't know Jesus yet?。
God, would you save him?。
And what is that?。
Have your way, God, with my brother.。
And then how about the rest of the world?。
When we see wars and rumors of war。
and we're praying for what's happening here or there,。
when we're hearing about people who are hungry。
or naked or who are exposed and vulnerable。
and we're praying for all the things。
that are going on in the world,。
is that not God?。
Would you please have your way?。
Do what only you can do.。
That's the kingdom of God.。
So seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.。
And for most of chapter five, Jesus talks about the law.。
The law, the rules which make up。
the measuring stick of righteousness.。
And the rules which govern people's lives。
and their relationship and their standing with God.。
So you know the Jews, they lived and breathed the law.。
They lived and breathed the law.。
They were fixated on it, they were just engrossed in it.。
They were obsessed with the law of God.。
613 of them in the Old Testament.。
Doing everything possible to not violate any laws,。
to obey and observe the laws.。
And the law was also a heavy burden。
because it affected everything in their lives.。
It had something to say about every aspect of their lives.。
And so I don't know about you, when you think of the law,。
even the law as you understand it in the Bible,。
do you feel like, man, you know,。
I'm pretty good at this obedience thing.。
Tap yourself in the back.。
Good job, John.。
Or maybe you're the kind of beats yourself up every day.。
And you're counting all the ways that you've failed,。
all the ways you've disappointed God,。
you've broken the law.。
Jesus has a bomb to drop on us.。
I wanna say it's like a cluster bomb.。
'Cause there's at least three things,。
three explosions that are gonna go off in our heads,。
in our hearts.。
And the first one is this.。
That when it concerns the law, Jesus says,。
"Do not presume," and he says this back。
in chapter five, verse 17,。
"Do not presume I came to abolish the law and the prophets."。
So it's a heavy burden.。
Jesus came to save us.。
Take off our heaviest burden, Lord.。
Take the law, would you just eradicate the law?。
If we don't have the law,。
then man, I wouldn't feel guilty anymore.。
I wouldn't have to constantly be measuring myself.。
But guess what?。
Jesus says, "I didn't come to get rid of the law.。
"I came, didn't come to abolish the law."。
Then he gives us bomb number two.。
And he says, "I came to fulfill the law.。
"There is no one else who has made such an audacious claim.。
"I am here to completely fulfill this law.。
"Obey it perfectly, observe it perfectly."。
So don't even try to mess with the law.。
This law, which is the air and the atmosphere。
of the Jewish experience, the religious leaders,。
the teachers of the law,。
they led and they maintained the standard.。
They knew God was holy.。
And they also knew, they did know。
that the law was virtually impossible to keep.。
So you could say they would even mess with God's law。
by creating more rules and laws around the law.。
So kind of figuring, you know,。
if mom says, "Don't touch this little screen here,"。
then what do you do?。
You put a fence around it.。
So there's no way you can reach that.。
There's no way you could violate that rule.。
So they'd create these fences, these hedges around the law.。
The religious leaders interpreted the law for everybody.。
The teachers drew the boundaries around it.。
The judges determined how to interpret it.。
The priests set the bar, the standard of obedience。
and what righteousness looks like.。
And even though we tend to remember them。
for their hypocrisy, I submit to you。
that better than anybody else,。
they tried to obey the law.。
They were the best law keepers.。
That is until Jesus came.。
As far as human effort goes,。
nobody was more successful when it came to the law.。
But here is the biggest bomb of all.。
Because we do look up to certain people, right?。
Like, do you look up to Pastor Mark?。
And, you know, when it comes to,。
maybe you're like, you know,。
I don't wanna be wealthy like Pastor Mark,。
but I do wanna be spiritual and godly like Pastor Mark.。
Maybe that's, you know, how you look at it.。
I wish I dressed better like Pastor Mark does.。
See, we hold people up as like,。
gosh, that's something to aim for.。
I wanna be like that.。
And the Jewish people basically held up the priests,。
the teachers of the law, the Pharisees and the Sadducees。
as these are the people we're gonna emulate.。
And what does Jesus say?。
In verse 20 of chapter five,。
"For I say to you, unless your righteousness surpasses。
"that of the scribes and Pharisees,。
"the experts in the law,。
"you will not enter the kingdom of heaven."。
Did you hear that?。
Unless you are more righteous than Mark Chan,。
you will not enter the kingdom of God.。
Unless you are more righteous than Billy Graham,。
you will not enter the kingdom of God.。
You can put anybody's name on that list,。
any great Pharisee, any great teacher of the law,。
and if your righteousness doesn't surpass that, you've failed.。
Not that if you will just meet it,。
but even if you can't exceed it,。
if you can't surpass them.。
So, you know, one of the most righteous Jews。
in the New Testament is the Pharisee, Saul.。
Later, after an encounter with Jesus,。
his name changed to Paul,。
and again, one of the most righteous men on the planet。
says this about his former self.。
And it's in Philippians chapter four.。
I don't know if you wanna turn there,。
but I'll read it to you,。
and you know, maybe that'll make it easier to even listen.。
He says in verse four,。
"If someone else thinks they have reasons。
"to put confidence in the flesh,。
"that's human ability for righteousness,。
"I have more."。
I have more confidence.。
"I'm circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel,。
"of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews,。
"and so far,"。
do you notice everything on that list。
is nothing that he had any control over?。
Did you notice that?。
Circumcised on the eighth day.。
So, I mean, like no baby says,。
"Dad, we got an appointment, eight days,。
"time for circumcision."。
And he had no choice.。
There was nobody who said,。
"You know what?。
"Let's make sure that Saul is born to Israel."。
He didn't control that either.。
That he's born in the tribe of Benjamin.。
He didn't choose that.。
Hebrew of Hebrews, he didn't choose that.。
But then in regards to the law, he says,。
"I'm a Pharisee."。
As for zeal, that means passion.。
I persecuted the church.。
As for righteousness, based on the law, I am faultless.。
That's what Saul, Paul says about his former self.。
And yet, what does he conclude about this old self。
that looked so enviable to everybody else around him?。
Like, "I wanna be Saul."。
He says, "But whatever were gains to me,。
"I now consider them loss for the sake of Christ.。
"What is more, I consider everything a loss。
"because of the surpassing worth。
"of knowing Christ, Jesus my Lord,。
"for whose sake I have lost all things.。
"I consider them garbage,。
"that I may gain Christ and be found in him,。
"not having a righteousness of my own。
"that comes from the law,。
"but that which is through faith in Jesus Christ."。
Not the law, but a righteousness that comes。
through faith in Jesus Christ.。
The righteousness that comes from Jesus Christ,。
the righteousness that comes from God。
on the basis of faith.。
I want to know Christ, yes,。
to know the power of his resurrection。
and participation in his sufferings,。
becoming like him in his death,。
and so somehow, attaining to the resurrection from the dead.。
Paul says, "I'm not gonna pursue the righteousness。
"of even the holiest of men."。
I'm not gonna accept that as the standard.。
Why?。
Because that is not God's standard.。
I will pursue God's standard of righteousness.。
And the standard of God's righteousness is Jesus himself.。
He says, "I'm not gonna put my faith and trust in garbage,。
"even though it's shiny and pretty.。
"I'm gonna choose Jesus."。
Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness.。
Some of us might be thinking,。
man, you know, poke your elbow at the person next to you。
and say, "I'm better than you.。
"I'm more righteous than you."。
That's not good enough.。
You're selling yourself short.。
The righteousness you've set for yourself,。
whatever standard that is, if it's not Christ, it's garbage.。
Simple as that, it's garbage.。
So get ready for a little heresy, okay?。
So if you've got stones, please try not to throw them.。
And let me just say, I don't, this is not heresy,。
but you might think it is until you let me finish, okay?。
So please let me finish.。
So you know, if you've been going to church。
any number of times, if this is the second time。
you've attended Urban Voice Church,。
then you will have already heard。
what is the only way to eternal life?。
What is the only way for salvation?。
What is the only way to God?。
Anyone?。
(audience laughing)。
I hope you're just being shy, but it's faith in Jesus Christ。
that's as simple as it gets, right?。
It's trusting Jesus, believing Him.。
John 3:16, "For God so loved the world。
"that He gave His only Son,。
"that whosoever shall believe in Him。
"will have eternal life."。
Well, they will not perish, but have eternal life, right?。
So I'm gonna submit to you that there's one way。
one other way, one other way.。
I mean, I affirm Jesus is the way to the Heavenly Father,。
but I'm gonna say there's one other way.。
And guess who tells us what the other way is?。
Jesus.。
So Matthew 19, verse 16 through 22,。
you might wanna turn there just to say like,。
man, I'm gonna prove John wrong today.。
There is no other way but Jesus.。
And then someone, you might know this story, it says,。
"And someone came to Him and said,。
"Teacher, what good thing shall I do。
"that I may obtain eternal life?"。
I.e., or in other words, salvation.。
That I may have heaven.。
And He said to him, that's Jesus said to him,。
"Why are you asking me about what is good?。
"There's only one who is good,。
"but if you wanna enter life, keep the commandments."。
That would have been the perfect time for Jesus。
to put another exclamation point。
on salvation by faith alone through Christ alone, right?。
He could have said, "Trust me, believe me,。
"put your faith in me."。
But He doesn't say that.。
He says, "Obey all the commandments."。
Now, what a normal person would have said,。
well, then, I've already violated,。
even before this conversation, I've already violated。
all the commandments.。
And what we should say is, okay, is there another way?。
That's what should have happened, but in this story,。
the man who's asking the question,。
when told just obey all the commandments, what does he say?。
Okay, I did that.。
I've obeyed them all since I was a kid.。
And you can imagine anybody who's standing around listening,。
they're like, "Oh my gosh, this guy is so unaware of himself。
"has no idea.。
"He is living in a fantasy world, he's delusional."。
But it says, "Jesus loved him, though."。
And then he said, "You got one more thing。
"that you're lacking.。
"So sell everything you have and give it to the poor。
"and then follow me."。
And there was the answer right there, right?。
Basically, it should have begged the question,。
Jesus, what other way is there?。
Because this is an impossible way,。
the law is an impossible way.。
And then Jesus would have just said, "Then follow me."。
And that's what he says to us.。
There is another way, but it leads to death。
because the law won't save you there,。
will only accuse you, will only confirm。
you're a sinner, that you deserve the judgment。
and wrath of God, but instead choose me.。
Hang on my coattails and faith。
and let's walk into glory together.。
So Paul, again, arguably the most righteous man。
walking on the face of the earth, chooses Jesus.。
Arguably the most successful law keeper,。
perhaps in the history of the world,。
says, "I will not choose that garbage.。
"I will not choose what looks like my success story.。
"I'm gonna choose Jesus."。
And brothers and sisters,。
Jesus says, "Seek first the kingdom,。
"his kingdom and his righteousness.。
"Choose him, choose Jesus,。
"God's standard of righteousness."。
And then we can say, "Therefore," in verse 34,。
"all these things that consume our thoughts,。
"that distract us from pursuing。
"and keeping the main thing, the main thing,"。
Jesus says, "Don't worry.。
"Don't worry about tomorrow,。
"for tomorrow will worry about itself.。
"Each day has enough trouble of its own."。
You don't need to worry about those things。
because you're seeking first his kingdom。
and his righteousness and all these other things。
that try to distract us, that try to consume our thoughts.。
"I've got it, I'll take care of it.。
"Don't worry."。
So friends, let's put our confidence。
in Christ and his kingdom.。
Let's seize the righteousness that Jesus is,。
the righteousness that God offers to us as a gift.。
Let's receive him in faith.。
And if you have chosen any other way。
to gain the approval of God, to win your ticket to heaven,。
then let's throw that in the garbage can where it belongs.。
Paul did.。
And let's choose Jesus.。
Let's bow our heads.。
I'm gonna give you a moment to respond to the Lord.。
I'll start with that first question.。
What is it that we pursue with all we have?。
What is our highest priority desire?。
Let's just confess it to the Lord.。
(soft piano music)。
And put that, and maybe there's more than one,。
maybe there's dozens of things.。
And put that in one hand, and then in the other hand,。
the kingdom of God and his righteousness.。
(soft piano music)。
I'm just asking you, in your own heart,。
just weigh those two things out.。
Jesus said, "What does it profit a man。
"to gain the whole world and yet lose his soul?"。
(soft piano music)。
And as the Lord leads you,。
would you empty one of those hands?。
Lay it at his feet.。
And tell him what you're gonna do.。
(soft piano music)。
And you can pray alongside me,。
or you can just keep praying in your own words.。
Father, we acknowledge right now that you are a holy God。
who has an impossible standard of what is holy。
and what is righteous.。
And first, we just ask you to forgive us。
as we confess that we have missed the mark.。
We have not lived up to your standard.。
And even those days that we may have fooled ourselves。
into thinking that we are holy enough,。
good enough, righteous enough, Lord, it was a lie.。
Forgive us for trying to earn our way,。
earn our way to your approval.。
(soft piano music)。
Forgive us that we have sought our kingdom and not yours.。
We have chosen my way, not the Father's way.。
And forgive us that we have not trusted you,。
we have not believed you,。
that we have not embraced your son, Jesus,。
that we have not clung to him desperately.。
But today we put all of our desires,。
all of our pursuits, our worries, our fears, our concerns,。
and we drop them at your feet,。
the feet of Jesus who says,。
"Come, all who are weary and heavy laden,。
"and I will give you rest."。
The one who invites us to take the heavy burden。
off our shoulders and that you promise to trade with us。
a light yoke, a light burden, an easy burden.。
Lord, we receive that.。
Thank you for taking the load off of our shoulders.。
And now as we live our lives,。
seeking that you get your way,。
and trusting in your son, Jesus, the righteousness of God,。
(gentle music)。
Lord, let us experience the joy of following you,。
the joy of seeing you provide everything that we need,。
coming to you with open hands,。
holding nothing back from you,。
as you pour out on us the blessings of heaven.。
We trust your promises.。
We trust your word.。
We trust your son.。
Have your way with us.。
God, would you help us?。
We already know we're not able.。
We cannot obey your law.。
No matter how hard we try, we keep failing.。
Lord, would you help us?。
And would you put our sights on Jesus。
who has already fulfilled your law perfectly?。
And we're not gonna try to win our own salvation。
'cause Jesus has already done it.。
Thank you, Lord Jesus, that you went to the cross。
perfect, spotless, sinless,。
and you became sin for us and crucified our sin,。
paid the debt that we owed for our own sin.。
We love you and we are so thankful to you.。
Lord, as we go from this place,。
I pray you put a bounce in everybody's step,。
knowing that there's a lighter load on their shoulders,。
that they are not walking hopelessly,。
but now we are walking with so much hope,。
so much promise,。
Lord, we are walking in the goodness and grace of God.。
Thank you so much, we pray in Jesus' name, amen.。
and I hope.。
