Hi, everybody. Good to see you. Good morning. It's nice to be back at UV. Many of you may。
be here or maybe, maybe, maybe not here. I don't know. No, maybe not here. But I used。
to do these videos for UV during the height of the pandemic. And it's just like a one。
woman variety show where it's me and the camera. I'm just like, Hi, everybody. I'm Mr. Rebecca。
de la Homa. And I'll say it all in Cantonese. And I'll throw in some English in there. But。
today I'm going to be talking to mostly adults. So we're not going to play any games. But。
we're going to have some few fun interactive activities. And I probably will be less hyper,。
but just as interesting. All right. So this morning, we'll be exploring a topic that's。
really near, dear to my heart. As you can see on the slide, it's about art, beauty,。
and God. And I want to start by asking everybody a question. Gosh, it's so techie here. Last。
time I was here, I wasn't so techie. So what value do you place in art and beauty? So in。
other words, how important is it to you, like personally? And how important is it to society?。
It's a rhetorical question. So you can think about it. So I'll share with you what I often。
hear, especially from the Chinese culture that I grew up in. So art is way impractical,。
like not very useful. Ancillary. What? The painting is $3,000. Why so expensive? No way,。
I can do that, close my eyes. Paint, paint, paint, all done. So, and beauty, of course,。
is nice, but who has the time for all that? We don't have time to make everything pretty,。
everything to look good. But if it's for skin care, we can do it. So the funny thing is。
that despite all these negative comments that I've heard or even have absorbed in our Chinese。
culture that I grew up in, and in culture in general, and society in general, we spent。
a lot of money and time and resources in artists, like BTS, Taylor Swift. I mean, they are artists.。
Practicing their art form, performing on stage for tickets, sold out shows, multiple shows.。
We spend money on other people's art, other artists that are celebrities. So the word。
celebrity means we celebrate them, right? But we don't really actually celebrate art,。
we just celebrate them. And especially here in the States, we have game shows and reality。
shows, especially for things like this, like America's Got Talent. But have you noticed。
when anybody goes on stage on America's Got Talent, it's like the same kind of talent?。
So we have someone's gonna sing, definitely gonna sing, maybe with a guitar, maybe with。
a piano, maybe both. Someone's gonna dance, someone's gonna do magic and wow the crowds.。
So, what I'm seeing is they're doing these things, but you don't see someone stand up。
on stage and perform their talent in doing a math problem. How quickly can I solve this。
puzzle? Can I do a Rubik's Cube in less than a minute? Or how good am I at organizing spreadsheets?。
Those are not talents we celebrate, those are not talents we wanna compete for, but。
actually we do that, a lot of us, every day. That's what we practice, that's part of our。
work. So, we as the audience love it when other people display art and beauty, right?。
We love it. So, if we're gonna spend time to watch these shows and watch the next YouTube。
video and the next YouTube video for the next two hours of our lives and not sleep, or buy。
tickets to watch these singers, it would seem that we highly value the arts. We highly value。
art and beauty. But I don't know if we actually encourage that in ourselves or for others.。
I wonder why. And for me, this topic is really near and dear because I am an artist. I make。
my own artwork, I lead art making sessions and workshops, I work with a community, I。
exhibit their art, and I'm an author. These are all artistic, creative things that I do.。
And it's a huge part of who I am. But I am no superstar celebrity. So, does it still。
matter that I do this stuff? Is it worth it? So, I've struggled a lot to be able to put。
what you see on the slide here in terms of identifying myself as an artist. It's way。
easier to say I'm a teacher. Way easier when I was a business consultant to say, "Oh, I'm。
in consulting. All the aunties love it. Make so much money. Yeah, very good." In college,。
before college, I wanted to go to art school. No way is that happening. But I can do everything。
art on the side if I wanted, as long as it stayed a hobby. So, even after being a consultant,。
being an educator, et cetera, what do I come back to? I still come back to my passion.。
And I can't deny that I feel my best when I make art and when I teach art. But even。
as I put these pictures up on this slide and talk about being an artist, it's still hard。
to reconcile these messages that I've heard either from growing up or messages from society。
and balance that with what I feel is very important and valuable. And kind of combating。
with what I am hearing in society saying, "It's really not that useful. It's shallow.。
It's superficial. It's ancillary." So, kind of selfishly, not too selfishly, but also。
like altruistically, I want to explore what the Bible says about art and beauty, about。
this topic. So, essentially, I want to know what God thinks about this in hopes that I'll。
find affirmation in what I'm doing. Because I'll get affirmation about being an accountant,。
no problem. I'll get affirmation about being a doctor, a lawyer, no problem. All the affirmation。
in the world. And if I don't get affirmation from God, maybe he doesn't care about art.。
Maybe he doesn't care about that stuff that I care about. Then maybe as I explore, I'll。
find another direction. So, today, I want to explore with you what I've discovered so。
far. So, we're going to look at art and beauty as a theme. I know, I said I'm a teacher,。
right? So, I got to teach you these things in this kind of way so that all learners are。
included, all diverse learners in all these ways are included. So, you'll see graphs,。
you'll see pictures, I'll be talking. And that's what I do. So, we're going to go through。
the Bible. And when I look at themes, it's a theme because we see it across the Bible.。
And the Bible is one narrative, not little stories picked out and put in a collection。
like fables. It has a beginning and it has an end. So, we'll look at creation. We'll。
look at the flood. Exodus, when God's people were taken out of Egypt as slaves. We'll look。
at the Psalms. And we'll look at parts of the New Testament. So, we're going to start。
from the beginning, the very beginning. So, in creation, the first thing we read is what?。
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Now, the earth was formless。
and empty. Darkness was over the surface of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering。
over the waters. And God said, "Let there be light." And there was light. God saw that。
the light was good. And he separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day。
and the darkness night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day. So,。
what I notice immediately here is that God is the original artist. He created something。
from nothing. So, if we look at art, you have a blank canvas and you put something on it.。
You look at a sculpture, there's stone, there's clay. It was a lump and the artist makes something。
out of it. Taylor Swift went from no song to a song. So, something was formless and。
was given form. Something was empty and it was being filled just by his word. There's。
a vision and there's an order and there's a plan for his creation. And he filled it。
layer by layer. In Genesis later, it says, "And God said, 'Let there be a vault between。
the waters to separate water from water.' So, God made that vault and separate the water。
under the vault from the water above it. And it was so. God called the vault sky. And there。
was evening and there was morning, the second day. And God said, 'Let the water under the。
sky be gathered into one place and that the dry ground appear.' And it was so. God called。
the dry ground land and the gathered waters he called seas. And God saw that it was good."。
So when we paint, whether it's on a canvas or a piece of wood, whatever it is, when we。
paint, we start out with something empty. And we have to paint from the background to。
the foreground, layer by layer. And you have to let it dry. If not, all the layers start。
combining and mixing. It gets all mixed up. And you can't tell each layer apart. So God。
first paints this background of the heavens and the earth. Then he adds the water, the。
sky, the land, plants, vegetation, seed bearing fruits, the flora. Then he hung luminaries,。
lights, the sun, the moon, the stars. More layers. The sky needs birds. All the fall.。
The sea needs creatures. And the land, the livestock, everything creeping and crawling,。
all the wild animals. Everything is there. And this is the beautiful painting God created。
with every detail from every vein of a leaf, every seed of a fruit, every crater in the。
moon, every feather in a bird, every fin on a fish, every spot, pattern on any creature,。
any animal. And I think we can all say, if we look at God's creation in nature, wow.。
What a design and what artistry. There's form, there's function, and there's finesse. So。
even in today's world, scientists, designers, and artists try to mimic what God created。
just by his word. Airplanes mimic birds. They call it biomimicry. So we have creations mimicking。
each other. Camouflage, where's that from? Things that scuba divers wear, where's that。
from? And we try to mimic it or even capture it with photographs, but we really can't capture。
all its majesty. So up until this point in creation, the earth is being filled and filled。
and filled as the backdrop for the last creation, humans. It's the only creation that God created。
in his own image. The scriptures say, "Then God said, 'Let us make mankind in our image。
and our likeness, so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky,。
and the livestock and all the wild animals and all the creatures that move along the。
ground.'" So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created them. Male。
and female, he created them. And the Lord formed a man from the dust of the ground and。
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And the man became a living being. I think。
we've established pretty much that God is an artist, is a designer, is a creator here.。
And every artist makes their mark. There's some sort of mark when you create. When you。
make the art, you mark it. This is Picasso's signature. We all recognize it as his mark.。
Not just his style, but his mark. Fancy Le Bouton shoes, underneath the red, ooh, a mark.。
This is a fake pair. Mid-century modern furniture, my favorite. What's the mark? The angled legs,。
the streamlined lines. That's a mark. God left a mark on all of his creation. And the。
biggest mark he made was on man. So only man was sculpted and molded from the dust of the。
ground. And the only creation given the breath of life. His own breath of life. So as humans,。
we're created in God's image. In his image. So I have kids. They're created in the image。
of my husband. They both are boys, and they both look like him and his brother. And people。
love to tell me that. Wow, he looks just like your husband. You are so correct. But I know。
they are mine. Because I birthed them out. And in certain angles and in certain lighting,。
with a certain smile, they sort of resemble me like 2%. So when they're created in our。
image, is it just what they look like? And of course we love that. We'll bring them.。
Oh, look, this is my eyes. No. Oh, look, it's my nose. Also not my nose. So what I tell。
people is, yes, created in our image looks just like my husband and his brother. But。
all the insides are me. All that in there, me. So if we're created in God's image, we。
must share characteristics of our Father. And from what we just read in Genesis, in。
the beginning of the Bible, in the very beginning, God is a creator. God is an artist. So we。
must possess creativity and artistry. But really, what's the point of having that? We're。
going to go say something and make some flowers appear? I don't have that power. So I don't。
have exactly what God has, but an image of it. But what's the goal of it all? Why? He。
recreated everything, didn't he? What's the point? So as I keep exploring, we've laid。
out the foundation in creation, right? So maybe as we look at this really pretty picture。
from up in the mountains looking, this creation is for enjoyment. It's so we can delight in。
God's creation, so God can delight in his own creation. That must be it. But what happened。
after creation? Adam and Eve were sent out of the garden. And then after generations,。
God's people were being corrupt and wicked and evil. God thought they were so evil, he。
regretted he made them. I never think that about my boys. Usually. He wanted to wipe。
them out with the flood. I just want to send them to the corner. But there's this one person。
he wanted to save. And that's Noah. Only Noah was righteous in the eyes of God. So he asked。
Noah to do something. Hey, Noah, I'm gonna wipe out the whole world with lots of water。
like a flood, but I'm gonna save you and your family. And this is what you're gonna have。
to do. Build a big boat. Like a really huge boat. So in scripture, he tells him exactly。
like what to do. Make it out of cypress wood, put rooms in it, coat it with pitch inside。
and out. Who's ever built a boat before? I've been in a boat. I've never had to make the。
boat that keeps me alive. Oh, and then it has to be 300 cubits long, 50 cubits wide,。
30 cubits high. And make sure you have a roof on it. And below the roof, make sure there's。
an opening also one cubit high all around. Put a door on the side too. Make sure there's。
a lower, middle and upper deck. Oh, and after you're done with this big boat, put two of。
all living creatures in it, 'cause we're gonna save the moms and dads of all the animals.。
Make sure you have every kind of food too, 'cause that's all you're gonna have to eat,。
you and your family. Whoa, dude. It's like getting a verbal blueprint of how to make。
this boat, but having no blueprint. So this picture of like, oh, there's A and there's。
A prime, there's B and B prime. And say, oh, don't forget C prime, prime, prime. And then。
this, I wouldn't know what to do. And I'm already good at math. I won't know what to。
do. No power tools. The scriptures say Noah did everything just as God commanded him.。
Okay. So I don't know about you, but I wouldn't be able to know what to do about that. Can't。
even ask my spouse for help or my sons or anything, just me. But God knew, right? When。
he found Noah and asked him to build a boat, he knew he has craftsmanship. He knew he'd。
understand. So how does God use his talents? 'Cause this verbal blueprint is what designers。
do, is what architects do, is what contractors do, what builders do. Ultimately, Noah uses。
craftsmanship to obey the Lord out of obedience. So maybe that's like an objective of all this。
art and beauty stuff. To obey, to follow. Now, further on after the flood happened,。
let's look a little further for more examples. God's people were once enslaved by the Pharaoh.。
And in Exodus, there is a different kind of ark that needs to be built. As God's people。
were saved by Moses, parting the Red Sea, going into this land, they were away from。
their country, they were away from a place. And God asked Moses, "Build a tabernacle."。
Tabernacle is a place where they can worship, a tent. It's very orderly. So if you look。
at the layout of a tabernacle, it's very symmetrical. There's lots of order. Who gets to be where。
and why. But inside this tent is an ark. Sort of like this. This isn't like the actual one,。
which is a model of it. But it's made of metal. It looks pretty intricate to me. You have。
to like know a lot of different things. And God said to Moses, "Oh, okay. I want you to。
make a tabernacle, a sanctuary, so I can dwell in it amongst my people. And make all the。
furnishings inside it, exactly like the pattern I'm about to give you." So pattern, design,。
blueprint. Patterns are what a lot of tailors and seamstresses use. You have to make it。
out of this wood, this high. Inside and out has to be pure gold. Put four rings for it.。
Fasten it to four feet. Two rings on one side, two rings on the other. Oh, but don't forget。
the poles. Overlay it with gold. Insert the poles into the rings. Make sure you make an。
atonement cover of pure gold. Make sure it's this long and this wide. Wow. Man. Because。
if I were Moses, I'll be like, "What? How long is a cubit?" 17.5 inches long. How do。
you even measure a cubit? How do I make sure it's definitely that long, that wide, and。
that high? But don't worry. God has an answer. So in Exodus, we also read later, like a few。
chapters later, after all this direction, "Oh, I've already chosen people to take care。
of this. Don't you worry." God chose specifically, it says, "See, I have chosen Bezalel, son。
of Uri, the son of Hur, and the tribe of Judah. I filled him with the spirit of God, with。
wisdom, with understanding, with knowledge of all kinds of skills, to make artistic designs。
for work in gold, silver, and bronze, to cut and set stones, work in wood, and to engage。
in all kinds of crafts." He's like the Renaissance man. Like he can do everything. This is a。
true skilled artisan. Oh, and don't worry. I also appointed Aholiab, son of, I don't。
know how to pronounce this, Ahisamach, I don't know. But he's from the tribe of Dan, to help。
him. So Mr. Renaissance man isn't enough to make this sanctuary for the Lord. We need。
more skilled artisans. And don't worry, I've given ability to all skilled workers to make。
everything that I've commanded you. Wow. When's the last time you've heard of maybe a church。
or a place, an organization say, "Top priority, go get the artists." Number one, make sure。
we hire the artists and make sure we train them. Make sure they're skilled. Make sure。
they have all the support. I don't think that happens. Usually we go, "Make sure we hire。
the accountant. Make sure we have the CEO. Make sure we have the janitor." But that's。
not what's happening here. God is handpicking artisans out of everybody for very important。
work to build the tabernacle where he's going to dwell. The highest honor. But oftentimes。
these artisans, at least nowadays, are the outliers. When I say the word artisan, what。
do you think of? Bread. Art is no bread. Very good. I can't bake it. But it takes a long。
time to do it. I think of the really pretty baskets with the leather handles. Like, "Ooh,。
really pretty, really nice." I don't know how to weave it either. I don't even know。
how to sew my own clothes. I don't know how to do those things. I went to a wood shop。
at the park district. It took me three months to build a toy shelf for my child. Three months.。
And then in two weeks, they were sick of it. I should have gone to IKEA. But I can't even。
build the IKEA shelf either. So God's saying, "I'm just going to pick these skilled artisans。
because they're my people of choice." And he treats them with priority and honor. Because。
this level of beauty, this level of art, this level of skilled craftsmanship is a level。
of excellence God deserves, wants, and requires. So art and beauty in this case isn't just。
for worship because the tabernacle is a place for worship. It's a form of worship. Because。
we want things to be excellent, high quality, and beautiful for God. And he even says that。
these people are blessed with this talent. Not everybody got it. And they've worked hard。
to develop this skill. Pure talent doesn't mean you can create. You need to practice。
and work hard. So these people are supported by everyone else in the community. These people。
were not picked. But I'm pretty sure someone's feeding these artists. So in this congregation,。
artisans were far from being ancillary. They were essential. The essential workers, basically.。
Essential for worship. And I know nowadays in modern day church, we might not see worship。
in this way. Like I did not help Pastor Mark build this stage. I did not. I made the PowerPoint,。
but that's what I did. I didn't make the beautiful cityscape back there that Pastor Mark loves。
to build and create. When we think of the term worship, we usually think of music. So。
the songs that we sang, the music that we play on instruments, the DJ, which is pretty。
much all of Psalms in the middle of your Bible. That's what I was taught. I didn't grow up。
in the church, but when I went to my first Bible study, I couldn't figure out the order。
of all the books. And every time the teacher said, "Psalms, yes! Just open to the middle。
of the Bible, and I'll find it." And I always wondered why does it have to be in the middle.。
But it kind of makes sense. Because, well, these are songs, right? And in the Bible,。
we see when music is used, when instruments are used, it's for times of jubilee, celebration,。
the trumpets of Jericho falling down the walls. All you got to do, make some noise with your。
trumpets. Wow. But also in Psalms, in some of them, if you see, like in the beginning。
of Psalm 5, it tells you what instrument to use. Because Psalms are for music directors.。
It says, "Oh, use flutes with these. It'll be best." Wow. But what I want to focus on。
in Psalms is, yes, the melody instruments are nice, but really on the words, the lyrics.。
And I don't think we hear the lyrics or know the lyrics or absorb the lyrics as well, unless。
we're pretty familiar with the tune already. Like the songs we sang today, this morning,。
I knew one of them and I had to learn the other two. And I love it when I can sing along.。
That brings me a lot of joy. But when I already know the tune, when I already know the music,。
I can't focus on the words. Because not every song is about joy and victory and happiness。
and fa-la-la, tra-la-la. A lot of songs, even the Psalms, the lyrics are about sadness,。
about fear, about anger. But everything is honest, authentic from the heart. So when。
words are written, either in prose or in poetry, accompanied by music or not, I think the objective。
of it is to share, to express. And worship music and worship songs are like a staple。
in modern day church service. So it's always in the beginning, it's always at the end when。
you respond to the teaching, the message. At least every Sunday service I've ever gone。
to. But why? Because the words serve to communicate and connect with what you just learned and。
what you just heard from the scripture. And in planning, you call it a response song after。
the sermon. Because it helps us respond to the Word of God. Not just praise Him, but。
respond like a conversation between us and God. So recall a very moving sermon I listened。
to one time, had to do with like our wickedness. It wasn't by Pastor Mark, but he also gives。
good sermons. But this one particularly talked about our wickedness, our wicked hearts, and。
all of us needed God's mercy. It was like cutting deep. And the response song after。
the sermon was the tried and true Amazing Grace. And even non-regular church goers might。
know the tune. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound. And then we got to these words, because。
I already knew, I knew how to sing it. I knew the tune. Got to these words, we got to the。
words, I was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, now I see, and then tears are flowing.。
I couldn't even control myself. And I felt it. And as much as I know it was the Holy。
Spirit resonating in me, it also reminded me of back in the day, because I'm kind of。
old, when you have to call the radio to pick a song. Radios have DJs, so it was not on。
demand. You had to wait for your song to be played on air, or else you can't hear it,。
unless you happen to have the CD or the cassette tape. And it never fails when you ask the。
DJ for a song, probably for your crush, for your boyfriend, whatever, or maybe someone。
had called in about a heartbreak or something, the DJ picks a song in response to that situation.。
And every time I listen to the radio, when that happens, it never fails to articulate。
those feelings. And when you hear your feelings being reflected in music, in words, in a song,。
it resonates. It comforts. It knows. At least to me, I know that I'm not alone. And that。
resonance is very powerful. All right. So, so far in the Bible, we talked about art being。
used to delight, to enjoy, to obey, to worship, communicate, connect. But art's art, right?。
Art could be kind of like anything. So what makes art beautiful? Because beauty seems。
sort of subjective, doesn't it? Like this watercolor looks beautiful to me. Is it the。
most beautiful piece of art I've ever seen? Is it the most beautiful piece of art you've。
ever seen? Would you not call it beautiful, but maybe just pretty? That's nice. That's。
interesting. Oh, I'm sure they really tried. Looks like a blob. What is it trying to say?。
I mean, the colors are pretty. Oh, it's very vibrant. How do we exactly define beauty?。
What's beautiful? I mean, in Exodus, when God was telling Moses what to build for the。
tabernacle, oh, there was purple, there was blue, there was colors, there were linens,。
there were tassels, there was gold. Wow. All the finest materials, down to the color, down。
to the fabric, it was defined. That kind of definition was beauty. And maybe sometimes。
we have certain rules that we follow. Maybe not too as specific as the parameters for。
the ark and the tabernacle, but we follow some sort of rules. So certain styles are。
trendy while others are classic. One color is in, like now, like mauve is really in,。
like beige is really in, grays, muted tones. But there was a period of time when neon was。
very in, like in the '80s. But maybe that's out now, or maybe it's coming back. So we。
judge beauty often within certain parameters. And in mathematics, there's something called。
the golden ratio. And mathematicians have discovered it in architecture, artwork, flowers,。
and nature. And that has to do with the proportion of the length and the width of something.。
And usually that proportion ends up being about 1.6. Because these things are nice to。
look at when the length and the width and the proportions are about 1.6. So we have。
a photograph a little bit in the foreground and a lot in the background. So essentially。
we really like looking at rectangles. And we think they're really pretty to the eye.。
So for a person's face, that ratio means the length is about 1.5 times the width. So more。
like a rectangle. I did not measure my face today. But some of us have longer faces, some。
of us have rounder faces, some of us have heart-shaped faces, some of us have broader。
faces. Not beautiful? More beautiful? Some people have said, "Well, you have a very symmetrical。
face if you put a line down the middle of your nose. If one side reflects perfectly。
on the other side, like Angelina Jolie. Beautiful. But if not, like one eye is bigger than the。
other, which I have. Not so pretty. So then in my pictures I have to angle. I want to。
show you, look at these photos of all these people. Different standards of beauty across。
cultures, norms, countries, generations. Who's most beautiful? Sometimes, in some places,。
lighter skin is beautiful. Sometimes darker skin, straighter hair, curly hair, coily hair.。
What if we go to different cultures? What if we don't show our skin? What if we paint。
our skin? We'll put markings on our skin, piercings on our skin. Is that still beautiful?。
I mean, the list goes on and on. Big eyes are more beautiful than small eyes. Snow white。
porcelain skin is really hit in Asia. So we have whitening creams, whitening masks, whitening。
this, whitening that. But you take that same Asian person and put them in a different context,。
tanner skin might be more in. Big eyes, small eyes, double eyelids, single eyelids, thick。
lips, thin lips, thick eyebrows, thin eyebrows. The list goes on and on and on and changes。
perpetually, time periods. At one point, fair and plump was really beautiful. And now it's。
skinny and dark. Sometimes it's voluptuous, like Beyonce. Sometimes it's not. And that's。
just for females. We haven't even talked about men yet. With this perpetually changing trend。
and beauty standards, what standards really stay true and can stand the test of time?。
So with all those different pictures, I think if I asked you who's the most beautiful, you。
might each pick a different face. Because it's based on preference. And beauty is in。
the eye of the beholder, isn't it? So if you were the beholder, you would pick what you。
prefer. But the ultimate beholder is God, is Jesus. And Jesus sees the beauty within.。
In the New Testament, in the Gospels, we see Emmanuel, which means God with us. Jesus,。
God with us. Dwelling with us. So he basically kind of reset what's worthy, who's worthy,。
and where is worthy. He didn't go to the fancy places to see the fancy people. He didn't。
go to Michelin star restaurants. He went to where it was ugly and rejected. He met with,。
hung out with, cared for the dirtiest people. The prostitute who was criticized and judged。
for her profession, Jesus looked at her heart of faith. The tax collector seen as greedy,。
a liar, a cheat. Jesus looked at his heart for repentance and reverence for him. Even。
worship requirements kind of changed and got reset in the New Testament. In the Old Testament,。
we needed an ark to be like this. The tabernacle to be set up this way. We needed this, this。
high, this long, this wide, this color, that color. But those specific standards aren't。
so strict anymore because of Jesus. When Jesus died on the cross, there was like this earthquake.。
In the Bible, it talks about a curtain tearing. The veil was torn from top to bottom, not。
bottom to top. And that veil was what separated people from God. Only the most holy and the。
most clean. And if you were to go in there, you'd die because you're not clean enough.。
Jesus changed all that. His death changed all that. We don't need these specific strict。
guidelines of what to craft, what to make, even though it's beautiful. But the focus。
is on the beauty of salvation and redemption instead. So things on the inside. So we have。
tons of examples, I think, throughout the Gospels on how inner beauty was emphasized.。
But actually, we see that God was after our hearts from the beginning, after all. So that。
theme is actually carried, not just in the New Testament where it seems like things have。
changed, there's a turning point, but it runs in both Testaments. So who knows what this。
is about? Yes, my son is raising his hand. Yes, David and Goliath. Thank you for the。
applause. Little David beats big giant Goliath. We know the story. My boys love this story.。
And I remind them that there's more to this story because the person of David is a key。
character in the whole Bible. David was a little guy who beat the big giant with the。
tiny stone. Classic hero. But not without help. I always ask my boys, how did David。
do that? Was he the strongest? Yep, there he is shaking his head. Was he the tallest?。
Nope. How did David do it when no one else dared? Yes, Ethan. Yes, because God was on。
his side. Their answers are so pure, aren't they? And confident because God was with him.。
Because God. Yes. And also because David. David believed and had faith. Because all。
the other people, yeah, God was still there. But they didn't believe. They didn't have。
a heart of faith. Okay, now this is the victorious picture here. Just rewind a little bit, just。
a teeny bit. Before this happened, David was actually anointed king by Samuel. Because。
Saul was not going to be king and Samuel had to go to David's house. David's dad was Jesse.。
And David had tons of brothers, older brothers. Stronger, taller, maybe more handsome. So。
Samuel had to bypass all those brothers because he thought, oh, that one is probably king.。
That one's called tall and strong. He's pretty handsome too. But God's like, nope, not him.。
Keep going. Next brother? Nope, not him either. Man, none of them. Do you have any other sons?。
Yeah, we got like that. David, he's like out there somewhere taking care of the sheep.。
Go bring him in. For real? David? All right. That's him. Wasn't even what Samuel thought。
either, let alone Jesse. Because David didn't fit the bill of what we have an image of a。
king. But God chose David for his heart. And look what he did in the battle with Goliath.。
And even when David became king, he committed a great sin. He took someone else's wife.。
I tell my boys, that's a big no-no. We do not take someone else's wife or someone else's。
husband. And then King David made plans for her husband to die in battle. That's like。
big no-no number two. And even amidst that grave sin, horrible sin, God looked at David's。
heart. So in God's eyes, the heart is huge, which puts a different perspective on beauty.。
Because it's in the eye of the beholder, right? In David's case, I might look at him and go,。
"Oh my goodness, I can't believe he did that. I can't believe he did that with Bathsheba.。
I cannot believe it." And God still sees his heart. Yeah. But isn't it true that God's。
the ultimate beholder? He's really the only one. So I don't know about you, but I can。
be kind of shallow when it comes to looking at couples and celebrity couples. I like to。
see pretty people with other pretty people. And when that doesn't happen, in my eyes of。
course, I tend to criticize. Like, "Oh, she chose him." Or, "Oh, he chose her." I know,。
I'm shallow. I admit it. Yep. Like Hugh Jackman. Okay. So as superficial as it may sound, I'm。
speaking the truth of what I think and what I believe, right? Just based on outward appearances.。
But I fail to see in these celebrity couples is their inner beauty, which I would never。
be able to see, because all of my impression is based on their public image. So they may。
look really good, but you know what? Maybe they have the golden ratio face. I don't know.。
But once you hear rumors of scandal, that pretty face is no longer pretty. Their beauty。
immediately plummets. But on the contrary, when you hear of a celebrity's loyalty, adopting。
dogs, rescuing babies, whoa, their beauty points skyrocket. They might not even have。
like a prettiest face, and it don't matter. All of a sudden, they're beautiful. Why does。
that happen, though? Do you think that inner beauty is visible on the outside? Does it。
change the person's face? Are things like kindness, humility, attractive? So attractive。
that it's more attractive and alluring than looks? So me and my husband have been married。
for a long time. And as I talk about being shallow about celebrity couples, I think about。
God looking at the heart, and then I have to ask myself, well, do I? Sometimes, sometimes。
not. In premarital counseling, the pastor asked us to read Peter, specifically the part。
that talks about wives, for me. First Peter, chapter 3, verses 3 to 5. "Your beauty should。
not come from outward adornment, such as elaborate hairstyles and the wearing of gold jewelry。
or fine clothes. Rather, it should be that of your inner self, the unfading beauty of。
a gentle and quiet spirit, which is of great worth in God's sight. For this is the way。
the holy women of the past, who put their hope in God, used to adorn themselves." I。
thought it was really funny and ironic, because all I could think about was my dress, my hair,。
my makeup, my bouquet, and all my accessories. But I get what the pastor was trying to say.。
And, all joking aside, even though my nails were really important for that day, I understood。
what we're reading is important for all the days after the wedding day. And as time passes,。
even though I think my husband is super cute, it was not the only thing that attracted me。
to him. And as time passes, we're almost at 15 years, and I've noticed since I was a kid,。
we've aged. And our looks have changed. Even though Asian don't raisin and beige don't。
age, I look younger than my age, but I have aged. And my looks have definitely changed。
from when we were dating, and especially from our wedding day, when I had lots of people。
helping me look a certain way. So as that change has occurred, it's really those character。
traits that we have to be attracted to. Although sometimes those same characteristics can really。
drive us crazy, it's really what continually is refined in our marriage and really carries。
us through. And I have to agree that that beauty from within is indeed precious and。
unfading. So we've kind of hopped through the whole Bible a bit to explore the theme。
of art and beauty in the scriptures, and the theme seems to be everywhere, shown in different。
ways. And all of this exploring has really shown me how much of a master artist God is.。
So in the art world, when you talk about master artists, people say Rembrandt, Monet, Dali,。
Picasso. And I don't know if you've done a lot of art, maybe you have a practice of。
making art, or you know artists, but for me and some artists, mostly many of the artists。
that I know, we can spend days, weeks, or months on a piece, whether it's a painting,。
a picture, editing a photograph, designing something, a poster, whatever it is. When。
we step back and look at it, we appreciate what we made. It's not bad, it's pretty good.。
Keep fixing it. And when it's finally done, all done, maybe I'll put it in a frame, maybe。
I'll put it up somewhere, I celebrate the beauty of the artwork. And I call it good,。
like very good. I go rest, refresh, and realign. The next piece of art. To go back to creation,。
God saw everything he had made. And indeed, it was very good. So the evening and the morning。
were the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth, and all the host of them were finished.。
And on the seventh day, God ended his work which he had done. And he rested on the seventh。
day from all his work which he had done. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified。
it. Because in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made. So unless。
we're commissioned to do a specific piece, like a portrait or draw my old house or something。
like that, artists don't really need their art pieces to be beautiful to you or anyone。
else. Because it's meaningful and beautiful to themselves. That's why they do it. So when。
I go to the Art Institute and go, I gotta go see the Monet exhibit, so beautiful. Gotta。
go to Paris, go to the Louvre. When my husband and I went for our 10th anniversary to Paris,。
I've never been, went to the Louvre. And there was a huge line for Mona Lisa. But the painting。
is actually quite small. Like in the textbooks, like it feels like it could be really big。
because you only see it on the page. You get there, it's like, I'm like 12th row from like,。
where is it? It's like, just like a regular sized portrait. And everyone's staring at。
it, talking about it. I'm not really sure if the artist cares what we think about Mona。
Lisa. But we really care about talking about it. So if I were to put like examples from。
artists like Picasso, Michelangelo, Da Vinci, Van Gogh, Monet, Cicel, Andy Warhol, abstract。
painters, installations that have one piece of stone on a pedestal and you walk away,。
new installations. I think we would all agree that it's all art. And objectively, all impeccable.。
But regardless, I don't think we would agree on which one's the best, or the most beautiful.。
And the artist frankly doesn't care. The maker of each piece of artwork didn't create it。
for you or for me, but for himself. So the maker already knows the purpose and the value。
of every piece that anyone else outside would never be able to clearly see. The maker is。
the beholder of the beauty and the creative process it took to make that holds a lot of。
feelings and stories of inspiration behind every piece. Therein lies the beauty, the。
inner beauty that only the artist knows very well. God is our maker, our creator, our artist,。
we are his creation. We're his art piece. In the Bible there's this analogy of the potter。
and the clay and Jeremiah. Who's ever done pottery class here? Like two. Who's ever seen。
someone do pottery before? Oh, like four, five. Who's ever watched a YouTube video of。
pot? Oh, okay, maybe 10. So it's messy. It's messy. Here's what happened in Jeremiah. The。
word came to Jeremiah from the Lord saying, "Hey, arise and go down to the potter's house。
and there I'll cause you to hear my words." So then I went to the potter's house and there。
he was making something at a wheel. The vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand。
of the potter. So he made it again into another vessel and it seems good to the potter to。
make. So when you start making pottery, you throw clay, it kind of looks like this. You。
have a big clump, you want to make it wet, you put it on the wheel and it spins. Oh,。
you better start holding that clay. You have to put pressure on it. Not enough pressure,。
everywhere. Too much pressure, clump. Your hands shape it with pressure, with angling。
and sensitivity. Why was he told to go see the potter and the clay? Then the word came。
to him after he saw this. So if you can imagine, this is what Jeremiah is seeing. "Oh, house。
of Israel, can I not do with you as this potter?" says the Lord. "Look at the clay is in the。
potter's hand, so are you in my hand, oh house of Israel." So very experienced potters can。
do this. Make cups, make vases, many shapes, many heights, no problem. But should it happen,。
like a scripture is saying, it's marred, you messed up, darn it. You can still make corrections,。
you can remold the clay, a different shape, a different vessel. Until the potter chooses。
to glaze and fire, complete creative control over what the final outcome would be. So to。
me, that means we, being the clay, are continually being molded by the potter, being God. So。
we have to trust his hands to make us into vessels he's pleased with. Because the clay。
can't really talk back. Can't be like, why'd you make me like this? I was really intrigued。
by this pottery metaphor and this analogy, so I found in Romans 9, Paul reminds the people,。
puts them in their place, like you know your clay, right? And he says, "Does not the potter。
have the right to make out of the same lump of clay some pottery for special purposes。
and some for common use?" So I have no idea how God is going to mold me or mold you, and。
mold us, and I'm not sure what type of vessel you would be or I would be. I definitely don't。
know fully how to define common or special use, especially in this context. But what。
I do know is that God is an artist who makes beautiful things. So from his hands, some。
of us were given the talents of artistry, and we need to use them in obedience, to worship,。
praise, and connect. Maybe you don't consider yourself an artist, a designer, a maker, a。
painter, a sculptor, a musician, a singer, an actor, a poet, whatever you deem an artist。
to be. But do know that you were created as an art piece, and you were created by an artist,。
by design, which means you were created to be creative. And we were all created to admire。
and nurture beauty, both inside and out. So I encourage you to pause more often, step。
back and appreciate not just God's artistry, but also your own. Notice what is around you.。
Take time to value art, value beauty, and value yourself. Because we often spend a lot。
of time nurturing quantitative, measurable things. Like I'm on a diet right now, because。
Thanksgiving, Christmas, Chinese New Year really hit me bad. But how do I quantify my。
progress? Inches, pounds, I wish it weren't pounds, it would be just like milligrams,。
that would be way more success and achievement there. But we spend a lot of time doing those。
things. How many hours did I sleep? How many hours did I work out? How many hours did I。
work? Blah, blah, blah. Quantitative, measurable. But since art and beauty are so highly valued。
by God, how about we try to nurture that part of us too? So to be corny, WWJD. Who knows。
what that means? No one has ever seen that on a bracelet before. So when I was growing。
up in church, which I didn't grow up in church, people were wearing these bracelets that say。
WWJD. What would Jesus do? T-shirts, hats, bracelets, everywhere. I was like, what the。
heck is that? What would Jesus do? I don't know, die? I don't know. Why are you wearing。
this? But really it's to remind us in every case, what would Jesus do? And in our theme。
and topic today, I believe Jesus will look for the beauty in the ashes, beauty in the。
everyday things, and the beauty in everybody, the beauty in people. Because after all, that's。
what artists do. So I started off this morning wondering what value God placed on art and。
beauty in hopes to affirm myself as an artist. And I think I found what I was looking for,。
and I hope you found something too. Thank you.。
Thank you very much. Thank you very much for insightful sermon. And I want to pray together.。
Can we? Yeah. Let's all pray. Father, we give you thanks because you are the master artist.。
Thank you for creating this universe in such beauty. Thank you for the sunrise. Thank you。
for all the things that we can see and touch. And thank you so much for making us in your。
image. And thank you for your reminder that we can be creative and we are made to be so.。
And I pray that we will worship you in this way to appreciate what you have created. And。
most of all, appreciate what you do and who you are. Thank you for being our beautiful。
God and our mighty God in Christ. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for the insightful.。
We should invite her to come back, right? Yeah. And such a great perspective. And by。
the way, I didn't make that cityscape. Irene did. Yeah. So praise God for that. And Willie。
did. We really appreciate the presence of artists. And as I told you a couple of weeks。
ago, people walk into this space, come to our cafe, they appreciate the beauty of it.。
And it's not my job. I'm no artist. And because of some of the artists in our team, in our。
church who have created this beautiful space, right? Let's do so. Let's put to work and。
be more creative and appreciate God's creation. All right? So today we have the fellowship。
in the afternoon, right? And we're going to start. So you're invited to join us. All right.。
So I want to see you next Sunday and God bless you and you're dismissed.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
