- All right, thank you, Amir.。
And welcome all of you and happy Thanksgiving to you.。
I know some of you are out of town。
and you probably have some special plan.。
And today we are going to the luncheon.。
And so I will keep it really, really short.。
So we'll be out and be there by one o'clock。
and we're gonna have a good lunch together。
and play some games and get to know one another,。
connect with one another.。
And that's what Thanksgiving is all about。
because it's all about family and taking care。
of one another.。
Let's all pray together.。
And I got the news that Annie is in active labor right now.。
Yeah, so let's pray for her。
and pray for those who are out of town as well.。
Let's pray together.。
Father, give thanks, give thanks in good times。
and in bad times.。
And most of all, we want to give you thanks。
because of what you have done for us in Jesus Christ.。
And I pray that we will remember and be reminded。
you have given us the greatest gift of all,。
which is your son, Jesus Christ.。
Thank you for the salvation.。
Thank you for the identity being your sons and daughters。
and the eternal life you have given to us.。
I pray for Annie, I pray for James, I pray for the baby.。
I pray that this time you will be with them。
and give strength to Annie as she is in active labor.。
And I pray that as this newborn baby comes,。
they will be ready and give them a sense of peace and love。
and to receive this new life in the family.。
I pray for those who are out of town。
and I pray that you will grant them safety.。
And in this week of Thanksgiving, be reminded。
that we do need to be grateful。
for all that you have given to us in Christ in prayer.。
Well, I have understood。
that Thanksgiving is actually a discipline.。
Thanksgiving is something that we have to do。
and we learn to do.。
And if you ask someone in the Bible。
or the apostles or the disciples,。
pastors in the Bible, in the New Testament,。
probably the one guy who can tell us so much。
about the meaning of true Thanksgiving is the apostle Paul.。
He was preaching the gospel and he was imprisoned in Rome。
for the sake of the gospel。
and he wrote this to the church in Ephesus.。
He said, "Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord."。
Now again, to sing and make music is not an option.。
It's not something you can choose from the choices.。
It is a command.。
It is an imperative.。
It's telling you, you have to do it.。
Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord.。
Always giving thanks to God the Father for everything。
in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, Ephesians 5.。
Now think about it, always giving thanks for everything。
no matter what circumstances, good times or bad times.。
To Paul, the writer of this verse,。
Thanksgiving is not a once a year celebration。
but a daily reality, every single day,。
a daily discipline to cultivate a thankful attitude.。
And such an attitude will change our life view。
and make us joyful people in every situation.。
The worship leader remind us to reflect on this year,。
this past year, what had happened in your life。
and how would you conclude。
and how would you describe this past year, 2023.。
To reflect upon it is to help us to find some compass,。
some direction in what God is doing in our lives.。
Thanksgiving reminds us that God is a God of blessing.。
God has blessed us and that's why Thanksgiving。
is one of the most important marks of Christian life.。
When we follow Jesus, we must not allow。
a spirit of ingratitude because it will harden your heart.。
It will chill your relationship with God and with others.。
Thank God for the blessing, material blessing,。
spiritual blessing for the people in your life.。
Most of all for Jesus in your life.。
You see the mind, our thinking is like the belly.。
We eat garbage in and garbage out.。
If we take on, we take in toxic substance,。
it will ruin our system, ruin our digestive system。
and indeed our whole body, our mind, our spirit.。
The same goes with our mind.。
If our thinking, if our thought life is filled with myself,。
my own interest, my own voice, my own want,。
your mind will deteriorate.。
It will, it will.。
'Cause it will turn you into bitter self,。
selfish self, dissatisfied, ungrateful heart。
who do harm to all of us.。
The only way to restore it is to regain。
the spirit of contentment.。
What we have right now is more than we need.。
Yes, there are some needs and there's some wants。
in our lives and we pray for them,。
but the spirit of contentment says,。
"Hey, what I have right now is enough."。
And that kind of spirit will be a good soil。
to yield joy and thankfulness.。
Today, I think we are often,。
so full of unthankfulness.。
It's too common of a spirit, right?。
Kids forget to thank their parents for all that they do.。
Common courtesy is hard to find.。
We often take for granted for the things people do to us.。
People help us, we take it for granted.。
People are gracious to us, love us, we take it for granted.。
And above all, if we do that,。
we fail to thank God for His blessing.。
Ingratitude in the Bible is sin.。
Let's put it this way.。
Ingratitude is sin.。
As much as lying, stealing, immorality,。
any other sin condemned by the Bible.。
Ingratitude is one of them.。
So one of the Bible's warnings in the New Testament。
is found in Romans chapter one.。
It talks about those who don't know God,。
they knew God, but they neither glorify Him as God。
nor give thanks to Him.。
They forget about being thankful.。
Those who don't know God, don't sense the existence of God,。
don't worship God, is marked by ungratefulness, ingratitude.。
Let me ask you this.。
What are you thankful for?。
What are you thankful for?。
If your mind goes blank,。
we probably have to cultivate that spirit again,。
the spirit of thankfulness.。
From one end to the other end of the Bible,。
we are commanded to be thankful.。
I know it's hard.。
When things don't go well,。
I speak from my personal experience.。
When things go well in my life,。
I am angry, you know.。
My family members can tell you.。
I'm an angry man.。
I complain.。
But Thanksgiving reminds us,。
reminds me that this kind of spirit comes from my heart.。
I need to be constantly attuned to God.。
Psalm 147, saying to the Lord with thanksgiving,。
we are commanded to do that.。
Colossians 3, let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts。
since as members of one body, the church,。
you were called to peace.。
But be thankful, right?。
Be thankful.。
It's not about being polite to God.。
It's about worship.。
Who is God in your life?。
If Jesus is God, if Jesus is the Lord,。
we give thanks, right?。
It's not about being nice.。
Thankfulness is a command。
and it's a mark of our spiritual life.。
But we have to learn.。
We have to cultivate it.。
In bad times, in good times,。
we learn and we discipline our mind.。
So what should we be thankful for?。
Let me close with a few things。
to remind us what we need to be thankful for.。
Number one, thank God for the material blessings。
that God gives you.。
Paycheck, material enjoyment, shelter, a job,。
even though it sucks, right?。
At times it sucks.。
But be thankful, be thankful.。
Physical health, right?。
Yeah, sometimes we have back pain。
and all these different problems.。
But be thankful.。
Second, thank God for the people in your life.。
Your family members, yeah, they suck sometimes.。
They suck sometimes, right?。
They get us angry, they agitate us, you know?。
And I agitate them.。
But be thankful for the people in your life.。
It's so easy to take people for granted,。
especially people who really care for us and pray for us.。
But we need to give thanks for all those around us.。
Our spouse, our children, our friends,。
our church members, relatives,。
anyone who come my way, surround me with care.。
Number three, give thanks in the midst of trials.。
We face different difficulties and sometimes trouble.。
And, you know, look at the news.。
This world is such a broken place.。
It's dangerous, it's painful.。
Because of all these difficulties and challenges。
in the world.。
Our personal life as well.。
But, you know, the Bible tells us,。
the letter of James, consider it pure joy,。
my brothers and sisters.。
Whenever you face trials of many kinds,。
be joyful.。
Why?。
Because you know that the testing of your faith。
develops something inside of you。
that can never be taken away.。
That is your character, your spiritual life.。
Perseverance, patience.。
How can you have perseverance?。
It has to be developed from trials and difficulties, right?。
Patience and all these virtues and fruit of the spirit.。
It has to be cultivated from times of trials.。
All the faithful men and women in the Bible。
have their own difficult times.。
Think with me.。
From the first book of the Bible, Genesis,。
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Israel, Moses, David,。
even Jesus Christ our Lord, as the perfect son of God.。
He had his own troubles.。
He went through trials and difficulties.。
But he give thanks.。
Well, I don't know about you,。
what kind of trials you are going through,。
or maybe you're having good times of your life, right?。
You think about 2023.。
This is such a great year, right?。
How many of you think like that?。
2023 is a great life.。
Okay, great.。
We got one hand up.。
That's nice.。
Maybe you're envious.。
Think about 2023 to you.。
It may be difficult, or indeed it is difficult.。
Nevertheless, cultivate a spirit of thankfulness,。
even in the midst of heartaches and trials.。
Number four, that's the last one.。
Thank God, especially for his salvation in Jesus Christ.。
God has given us the greatest gift of all, his son.。
He died on the cross and rose again to give us hope,。
to give us eternal life,。
so that we can know God personally,。
and we can know the Father and spend eternity。
with the Father in heaven.。
And the Bible tells us we are separated.。
We don't deserve this grace of God, because we have sinned.。
We are separated from God.。
We are enemies to God, but God loves us.。
He loves you, and he loves me so much。
that he, God, wants us to be part of his family.。
And he did it to save us,。
send his only son into the world to die for us。
as perfect sacrifice.。
Give thanks that Christ the Savior has come, right?。
Turn to him, turn to God with a simple prayer of repentance。
to say to God, "I'm sorry.。
I take things for granted.。
But here I am.。
I want to recover that faith, that spirit of thankfulness.。
Thank God for what you have done for you and for me."。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, once again, we give you thanks.。
We're sorry we take too many things for granted,。
for the life that we have,。
for the people we have in our life,。
for school, for work, for family, for friends,。
and brother and sister in Christ, for our church.。
We complain too often.。
We come before you with a list of needs。
as if we are lacking in our life.。
Father, forgive us.。
And again, we kneel our mind,。
and we cultivate that spirit of thankfulness.。
As we think about this whole year coming to the end,。
no matter if it was a good time。
or there were ups and downs,。
hills and valleys,。
we come before you and give you thanks.。
Thank you for being our God.。
Thank you for loving us in Jesus Christ.。
In your name, O the Son, we pray, amen.。
All right, off we go.。
We are going to the luncheon, all right?。
So be thankful, all right?。
So say hi to one another before we depart, okay?。
I wanna see you next week, next Sunday.。
Let's worship and serve God together.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
