- I want to thank all of you for welcoming me back.。
I came back last night, right before midnight.。
So I travel for, in the past two weeks to,。
well, I have a layover in Paris,。
and then my final destination was in Turkey.。
So I joined or led a tour in western and central Turkey,。
and most of the people would have questions。
about the safety in Turkey.。
And I am living proof that there was safe to travel, okay?。
There was safe to travel.。
A lot of coverage from the western media。
would have us feel really scary about that place.。
But you need to understand, you need to read the map, okay?。
You need to understand the map.。
Turkey is very at the outskirt of the Middle East.。
So what happened in Israel, in Palestine,。
in Tel Aviv, in Jerusalem, they're not, you know,。
greatly affected the area in western Turkey.。
So I was fine.。
So as you can see, right, two weeks.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, so, well, let's get into the text today.。
And I have a little text to share with you.。
It is from Acts 13.。
So as I said, over the past two weeks,。
I'm very blessed to have joined。
some of the brothers and sisters from UK,。
and nine of them joined me.。
And then 10 of us traveled together in the lands of Bible,。
especially in Turkey.。
And I visited a lot of places,。
Istanbul or the sites of the seven churches。
in the Book of Revelation, and walked through those places,。
and make Bible come alive and remind me。
the Bible is not just a book of ideas.。
It is rooted in real history, in real time,。
in real space, geography, and real people.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then two weeks ago,。
I stood in the region of Antioch of Pisidia,。
and it was a place mentioned in the Bible.。
You know, when you went there,。
it was quiet and ancient ruins and all the stones,。
and what struck me the most, it's not just the city,。
but what happened in Bible is the journey。
that was made to this place.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then, as you understand in the Book of Acts,。
there's recorded three different missionary journeys of Paul,。
and as you understand, the arrows from Antioch on the right,。
that's in other Antioch,。
and then you follow that white arrow,。
and you come across the island of Cyprus,。
and then they went north.。
Paul and his team, in the first missionary journey,。
went north from the island,。
and they went to what they call Asia Minor back then,。
and what we call Turkey today,。
and they landed on a poor city called Perga,。
and then they went up northward。
to what I show you in the picture, Antioch of Pisidia.。
So, Paul went there from Perga,。
from the coastal poor city,。
and he has to climb like 1,000 meter or 3,000 feet,。
more than 3,000 feet, in order to reach that place,。
and the road was rugged.。
The terrain was very difficult, and it was steep,。
and it was very dangerous,。
and a very exhausting traveling experience.。
It's not comfortable at all.。
It was a very, very difficult, very hard road.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
And then, to understand this moment,。
from Perga to Antioch of Pisidia,。
we need to kind of zoom out, zoom out for a second.。
What had happened here?。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Now, this journey, the first missionary journey of Paul,。
began in Antioch of Syria, as I told you.。
There was the church in Antioch of Syria on the right.。
They were praying, and they were fasting,。
and Acts 13 reminds us,。
the Holy Spirit, while they were worshiping,。
while they were praying and fasting,。
the Holy Spirit spoke to them,。
set apart for me Barnabas and Saul, who is Paul,。
for the work which I have called them.。
So this mission did not begin。
with human ideas or initiative.。
It began with the calling of God,。
with the Spirit calling the church to send out people.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So what would it mean?。
Because it's very important.。
This is the first missionary journey of Paul.。
From there, from Antioch of Syria on the right,。
they took a boat or a ferry,。
and then went to the island of Cyprus.。
You see the pointing, kind of sharp-pointing island.。
It's called Cyprus.。
And there, they purged the gospel。
in different Jewish synagogues,。
and they faced different oppositions and persecution.。
And they confronted the false prophet,。
and they saw the Roman governor, and he came to faith.。
So already, in this journey,。
you have a mix of success and resistance.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So we are in Cyprus, and from Cyprus,。
they took a boat and sailed northward to Perga,。
which is a port city.。
It's one of the main entry points。
into the interior of today's Turkey or Asian minor.。
In a sense, this is where the mission moves。
from coast to coast and into the heart of the region,。
today's Turkey.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So can you find Perga?。
From Perga, the port city,。
they went inland and upland to Antioch of Pisidia.。
Now, the city, the ancient city of Antioch or Pisidia。
was established in the Greek period,。
and the city was strategically located。
in the crossroads of major Roman road,。
and there was a major highway,。
just like there's a major highway in the city of Chicago,。
290 or 994 or whatever.。
So back then, there was a major Roman highway,。
Roman road, called Via Sebast.。
Via Sebast, it goes from east to west.。
It's a major highway.。
It's a key highway that connect different area,。
different regions of Asian minor.。
So in other words, Paul was not traveling randomly.。
He was moving from place to place to influential places。
where the gospel should be rooted。
and could be preached more widely.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
However, the road to get from Perga to Antioch of Pisidia。
was very, very tough because Antioch of Pisidia。
is located on a high plateau.。
So the journey moved inland,。
and the mission becomes harder,。
and the mission becomes more difficult.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So the journey moved inland, and the mission becomes harder,。
and the road becomes steeper, and the cost becomes greater.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
And this is exactly at this point of the story。
that something happens, okay?。
Something happens.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
In Acts 13, in this journey, when they were in Perga,。
there were three different responses to follow Jesus,。
three different responses we found from the text.。
So one person of the team left for no reason,。
and some other people continue,。
and the others are just the beginning.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So I wanna show you there were three different kinds。
of responses to the call of Jesus。
from this passage, Acts 13.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Now, point number one is that some people turn back。
when the road gets harder.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
And Acts 13 says what?。
It says John Mark, there was a guy, John Mark,。
in Paul's team, left at this critical moment,。
and the journey became harder,。
and he, John Mark, chose to return to Jerusalem.。
And this reminds us many people are willing。
to follow Jesus only when they find the road was manageable,。
when they find the road was smooth,。
when the cost increases, some people will step back.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
And we may not physically leave the team,。
but we can turn our back in our hearts,。
in our mentality, because we wanna avoid difficulties.。
We wanna avoid hardship or difficult obedience.。
We choose comfort over calling,。
and slowly we start moving forward.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So the warning is clear.。
It is possible to start well in a Christian journey,。
and then still turn back。
when the road gets harder and harder.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So John Mark left, and that's the point,。
because the road gets harder and harder.。
And then point two here,。
it shows us some people keep going in faith。
when the road gets hard.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
In the story, it's Paul and Barnabas.。
They continue and took the hard and difficult road,。
and they did not stop when it became difficult for them.。
And Paul and Barnabas understood that, you know,。
hardship is actually part of our following Jesus.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So guys, you need to understand,。
you know, Christian life is not about how you start.。
It's not really about how you started your faith journey.。
Okay, you may have started your faith journey。
in happiness, you know, excitement and all that stuff.。
It is not about that.。
Faith is not about starting.。
It's about continuing.。
It's about continuing in God and trusting God,。
even when the road gets harder,。
because obedience is costly,。
and the cost can be high.。
So we may be faithful when the results are low,。
when we don't see success,。
but you stick to it because that's what faith is all about.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So sisters and brothers, please, you know,。
pay attention to this.。
Do not measure, do not measure your faith journey。
by how you started.。
Do not, because it really doesn't matter.。
Measure your faith by whether you keep going.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
The point three here tell us。
that some people continue in grace though.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Now, as you can see the context of the story。
in the first journey of missionary,。
many people began to follow Paul and Barnabas,。
but Paul told them not just to begin,。
but to continue in the grace of God.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So you say, "Okay, I have to keep going."。
It's when the road gets harder and it's very difficult.。
No, but that's not the point.。
The point of the Bible, the point of gospel。
is that the Christian life is not sustained by our strength,。
but by the very grace of God, the sheer grace of God,。
because if we depend on the grace of God,。
the grace of God will carry us from beginning to the end.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So when you first answer the call of Jesus to follow him,。
the call is not just to begin,。
but to continue, continue and keep going in grace.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So here, what is important is that the story of,。
remember who left the team?。
What is his name?。
John Mark, right?。
John Mark.。
This is where the story becomes very important。
because if you look at the entire story of John Mark,。
that was the beginning.。
He failed, he turned back.。
And earlier, earlier he turned back and he gave up,。
but that was not the end of the story for him.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Because somehow at the end of his life,。
we know that in the middle of his following Jesus,。
serving God, he changed somehow at the middle.。
And later on he did return.。
And then eventually at the end of Paul's life,。
when he got so much older,。
he wrote in one of his letter called 2 Timothy.。
That is probably last known letter of Paul.。
And he said, "Bring Mark."。
And he was saying to Timothy, "Only Luke is with me."。
And one more thing, get Mark, who is John Mark,。
bring him with you.。
You know, when Timothy, calling Timothy to come to visit。
and take care of Paul because he was in prison,。
because of the gospel.。
And Paul said, "Bring him, bring Mark,。
because John Mark has been helpful to me in my ministry."。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
And that means only one thing,。
John Mark learn and he change and he continue in grace.。
And that means he did not stay in his weakness or failure.。
God somehow restore him or he came back。
and God use him again.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Now, in closing, I wanna ask you,。
which one are you, which one you wanna be?。
You know, will you turn back in your weakness,。
in your public failure?。
And will you keep going?。
And will you continue in grace?。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
So this little story in the first missionary journey of Paul。
reminds you that wherever you are today,。
guys, wherever you are today,。
you may feel weak or you may feel like you're failing.。
Do not stay where you are,。
because the grace of God is sufficient enough。
to carry you through.。
So keep walking.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Well, shall we pray together?。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Heavenly Father, thank you for your calling。
of each and every one of us to follow you,。
even when the road gets hard.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Forgive us for the time we have turned back,。
turned our back against you,。
or chosen comfort over obedience.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
And yes, give us strength today to keep going in our faith,。
even when we are tired or discouraged.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
And teach us, Jesus, to rely not on ourselves,。
but to continue in your grace each day.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Even when we fail,。
remind us that you can always restore and call us again.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
And help each and every one of us to keep walking with you,。
step by step, day by day.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Amen. - Amen.。
- Amen.。
Thank you very much for worshiping with us,。
and we'll see you next Sunday.。
And let's take some time at the end of the service。
to say hi to each other, okay?。
Now, you welcome me back, all right?。
- Yeah. - You also need。
to welcome each other, welcome back, all right?。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
All right, then there's some refreshment prepared。
for all of us in the cafe area,。
so we can quietly proceed to the cafe,。
and then we have time of fellowship, okay?。
(Yi speaking Chinese language)。
Okay, God bless.。
