Good morning, everyone, and it's always good to worship together。
I want to give a hand to Amanda for doing an excellent job in translating and uh, let's give her a hand。
Uh, it's always good to worship together。
So I want you to say hi to your neighbor and say it's good to see you. Okay。
Okay, whether you know him or know her or not say hi, you know, it's good to see you。
Yes。
Okay, good to see you guys good to see you guys and uh today I would like to end our series on psalms and we。
end up in psalm 150。
Well, let me read this psalm it's very short, uh, it says praise the lord praise god in his sanctuary。
Praise him in his mighty heavens praise him for his acts of power。
Praise him for his surpassing greatness。
Praise him with the sounding of the trumpet praise him with the harp and lyre。
Yue qi han xiao de shen yin zan mei ta。
And verse four to six it says praise him with tambourine。
And dancing and praise him with the strings and flute praise him with the clash of symbols praise him with resounding symbols。
Let everything that has breath praise the lord praise the lord now this psalm is all about worship。
So it asks the first question is what is worship?。
And at the basic level the very very basic level worship is human your response to the only god who is truly。
worthy of your honor。
So again when you walk in here you said oh I am joining the church worship。
This is my response to god what he has done already。
So so so you think about god god is infinite。
God is infinite and the worship god deserves。
Will never end and it continues into eternity。
So when you think about you know as we worship together, uh in the bible, we naturally come to the book of psalm, right?。
Because the book of psalm is collected。
Uh songs and poems by the people of god in the old testament when they returned from exile and there were 150 of them。
So as you look at the whole book of psalm look at the arrangement of it。
Um, you find that it's very interesting because the psalms。
All 150 of them are arranged in five different books and each book ends with something similar。
It's a closing doxology。
So as you can see on the left, you have psalm one and two that is the gateway to the entire book。
And then as I give you example, uh at the end of book one, which is psalm one to 41。
It has the it's the d。
That is doxology. Okay. I don't have enough room for doxology。
But you know it's end with doxology, which is uh verses 14 of psalm 41。
It says praise be to lord the god of israel from everlasting to everlasting. Amen. And amen。
Amen amen and then uh, it is so。
In that the end of book two and book three and book four and book five。
There was an ending doxology。
And then, uh, you know, um, I as I prepared this sermon I thought of uh when I was in seminary。
Uh for my master of divinity degree, uh preparing myself for ministry。
Uh, as I thought about it, it was already 30 years ago。
I was in seminary and I was uh。
with classmates and sometimes uh, we have different。
uh brothers and sisters from other church or tradition or denominations and find kind of interesting conversation with them because some of them。
Uh are extremely conservative about worship。
So。
And when we talk about worship。
The debate get intense sometimes and because some of them are from very conservative。
Tradition they they they believe and insist that the songs we that we use in worship service must come from here。
There's 155 songs。
You know this congregation is relatively young relatively young, okay, I。
I think i'm the one the oldest guy here. Anyway, uh, you know。
I want to ask uh, whether you have been to a church where you walk into the sanctuary to join the worship。
There's a hymn book right in front of you。
Have you ever been to church like that?。
Anyone traditional church, there's a hymn book right in front of you and then uh as worship starts you pick up the hymn book and the host will say, okay, we turn to hymn number。
116 and then everybody turned to the 116 and then we sing that song together。
Have you ever have any experience like that? No, she's so young. Okay, some older guys。
Some older guys some older people。
Um, you've been to church the hymn book is someone who put together some of the songs used by the community and put it in one book。
And then uh, the book of psalm is kind of like that, you know。
The people of god return from exile and they collect 150 of them and the words in psalm 1 to。
150 will be set to different melodies and they sing and they worship with those songs。
And then some of the students that I talked to 30 years ago from a very very conservative background。
They would insist that we can only sing one of the 150。
Psalms we find in the bible and nothing else。
So they think that you know, there are other songs that are written, you know, uh recently。
They cannot be used. You cannot use those songs in the biblical worship。
Any modern songs? Okay any modern songs like, um, you know, uh, like amazing grace. All right, so you are not。
Allowed to use any of those songs。
We we we sang some songs in the beginning right and you cannot use those for them you cannot use those。
Now in their understanding truly biblical worship uses only the 150 songs that god revealed in the bible。
But as you think about it, it's kind of interesting, right。
It's kind of restricted。
But the bible tells us to sing new songs, right。
Even in the book songs sing new songs to god, right? So how do we apply that?。
So you have to understand how to read the bible how to interpret it scripture describes。
The worship in the ancient days, but it does not prescribe every detail of how worship must look like。
So as we turn to uh, psalm 150。
It is the concluding doxology of the entire book。
We want to find out what kind of questions the psalm is trying to answer。
What kind of teaching can we find find in the psalm?。
So the first point here is that this psalm tells us who is to be praised who is to be worshiped。
Verse one it says praise the lord praise god in his sanctuary。
And praise him in his mighty heavens。
See the old testament the sanctuary is of course is jerusalem temple and the temple is the throne of god on earth。
And it's the place where he sits there and he rules the entire world. He reigns as a king。
that's。
So praise god in his sanctuary in his。
Dwelling place and praise him in uh, the mighty water。
Mighty heavens now mighty heavens point to the power and the creation of god because in the ancient east when they imagine the world。
The world is uh is surrounded by water and whoever can hold up the sky。
with。
with the heaven。
Now create this bubble for us to to live in uh to restrain the water and that is the one we worship。
So god is to be worshiped and god is greater than everything, you know。
This is this verse tells you god is greater than you。
god is greater than。
The entire universe and god is greater than you know your whole life even including your ups and your downs。
And then verse two it continues to tell you。
Why should we worship。
Now verse two says praise him for his acts of power praise him for his surpassing greatness。
Now as you pay attention to the psalm is a very short psalm。
Psalm 150 begins and ends in the same way praise the lord right praise the lord and in biblical hebrew。
In the original language, it is hallelujah. And hallelujah simply means it's not english word. By the way, it's a it's a hebrew word。
Hallelujah means hallelu plus. Yeah。
hallelu means。
You have to praise right you have to praise guys praise and plus. Yeah, this is the short form of yahweh。
the the name of god。
Hallelujah。
In the middle of this psalm 150 there were 10 commands to praise。
10 commands for us to praise and worship is a call to move。
Our attention at this time move your attention away from your life from ourselves and turn our attention back to god。
Is。
So I want to ask you when you come in today。
When you come in today, what kind of a question did you ask yourself, right?。
Psalm 150 asks you invites you。
To ask the most important question is why why do we come here?。
Is it out of duty? Is it out of routine that we come here or what is the reason? Why are you here?。
So many of the praise psalms in the bible。
Uh, we'll we'll use this phrase praise the lord and worship god because。
So psalm 150 gives two reasons here。
His mighty acts。
And then his greatness is surpassing greatness。
And when you see。
The creation when you appreciate the creation you naturally will respond with all in wonder and you praise the creator。
And think about the wonder of the whole universe is so complicated and yet beautiful and you praise god。
And then praise him for because of his。
Surpassing greatness and that points to the salvation and the love the grace of god。
And uh, if you look at the whole book of psalms you find that the whole book of psalm tells you one big story of。
God's grace and god's salvation。
So first of all from this diagram from left to right 100。
First song and then the last one is 150 across five books。
There was a movement。
from lament。
Sad songs to praise at the end and about one-third of the psalms of this 150。
Laments and this is the cry to god when they suffer when the people of god suffer。
And then the whole entire。
Turning point. It's kind of like a u-turn when you drive, right?。
You wrong direction and you make a u-turn. Um, the the turning point of the entire book of psalm is psalm。
89 right 89 and it's a painful lament because the uh, because of the fall of the kingdom of david。
In the you remember in the old testament god promised david king david an eternal kingdom that will never end and yet。
Uh, you know, you know the history of the old testament it however it end。
And collapsed the entire kingdom and the people went into exile。
And then uh when you read psalm 89, uh, I give you some example here like first 38。
It's a lament crying out to god because we're suffering we lost our kingdom。
It says you have rejected god god。
You have spurred us and you have been very angry because of our sin you have very you have been very。
Angry with your anointed one, which is uh, the king of the kingdom。
Yeah。
So when everything is gone, uh, the psalm cries out to god, uh,。
Another example another verse is 49. It says oh lord。
Where is your former great love your faithfulness which is in which in your faithfulness is swore to david。
There's an eternal kingdom, but what happened now?。
49。
So psalm 89 is kind of like a minor song, you know, it's a very sad song。
That is the end of book one two and three。
And then you come to psalm 90 which is the beginning of。
Book four and that is interestingly a prayer of moses and kind of restarts the story again。
And psalm 90 i'll give you some example verses 13 to 14。
Is it continues to cry out to god but look up to god and hope。
You know being set in god, how long will it be god? How long it will be that we suffer that we're going going through our down times。
Satisfy us god in the morning with your unfailing love that we may sing for joy。
And we may be glad all of our days。
Your love。
Isn't that also our life experience。
You know, especially from our context, you know, we come to this place。
And sometimes most of the time we suffer。
Whether you have suffered some illness or some difficulties or some challenges in your life。
So this psalm says, you know god。
God's people there's hope in him because uh the faithfulness of god。
And then uh in the entire scheme of things。
You think of the resurrection of jesus christ our lord。
He has guaranteed the victory of god for the people of god. And so even when life seems to fall apart。
We still have hope in him because of the resurrection of jesus。
As the apostle says in the new testament is it's not because we are faithful that we have hope it is because god is faithful。
So we have hope。
And that's why the entire book of psalm ends with what。
not lament。
But praises right you get more praise psalms and more praise psalms at the end。
And until the loudest praise is in psalm 150 and god alone is to be praised。
And that's why god is worthy of our praise because he deserves all the honor and give us hope。
And then the third point here teaches us who。
How should we praise him?。
And you remember the psalms uh includes a lot of different music, uh instruments, right?。
Uh trumpets, uh harps and tambourines strings and flutes and cymbals。
And then, um, you group them together and there are three types of basic instruments, right there are wind instrument。
There was also string instrument. There were also percussion instrument。
and these were the。
uh instruments。
of。
the ancient culture the ancient time。
The point is not to limit our worship to use only。
These sort of musical ancient instruments. The point is that you know, the time is different。
Right time is now different and we use different instruments。
And um the more important point is that the psalm tells us that true worship is full of music。
And it's alive and full of emotions and it even includes dancing。
Right. Do you dance when you when you sing?。
today。
No, you don't right?。
That's our our cultural, uh, you know。
Interesting。
And and this song says you should dance when you sing praises。
See even when you move your feet it's kind of like dancing, right?。
And then your hands move you claps and your feet steps, you know on the side and some people would uh,。
You know lift up their hands and some will stand and the actions express。
Our praises including joy and respect and joy near to god。
And you remember jesus said that uh, all the disciples should love god with all of our heart。
all of our soul mind and。
Strength right strength, which is your physical body. So worship involves your whole。
holistic person。
And I understand that you know, sometimes most of us are in the from the uh,。
asian culture。
You know, uh, our churches can be too serious。
uh。
And too limited, uh by our culture。
But here it tells you worship is a verb and even your body is involved and your heart is involved。
Okay, so the last verse it says, uh who should worship who should praise。
Women。
And verse 60 says let everything that has breath praise the lord praise the lord。
So better instruments better song systems, you know。
Our song system is pretty good and they're not enough the psalm says you need one thing。
Which is everything that has breath and who is it?。
It's you。
It's us all of us has breath。
See you're breathing, right?。
Your breath is the most precious gift of life god has given you and。
And god created us and he breathed into us the breath of life and the breath of life has its purpose。
As someone who has breath of life we are made to praise him to to worship him。
So, how are you using your breath today how using the breath that god has given you, you know, I pray that our。
Worship in the church to show the world show the world that god is worthy of our breath and our praise。
You。
So I hope this song will remind you what worship is all about and to invite you to truly worship him。
Shall we stand and pray together in conclusion?。
Let's all stand together。
Let's pray。
Dear lord, we praise you because you are worthy。
Thank you for jesus christ who gave his body gave his love and shed his blood for our sins。
And rose again to guarantee our victory。
For us as your people。
And today as we continue to worship you we come to your table。
And we bring you our sadness our defeat and our disappointment。
We ask you god to renew our hope。
And cleanse us cleanse our sins by your grace and strengthen us by your spirit and help us to trust in your faithfulness。
Women。
And as we partake the uh。
chameleon elements。
We remember your body and we remember your blood with gratitude。
Until jesus comes back again。
In jesus name we pray amen。
