All right, I'll hand it over to Mark.。
Well, thank you, everyone, for coming.。
And as Kelly told us last Sunday,。
it was our Easter Sunday and also our seventh anniversary. Right.。
So we can say everybody, everybody,。
happy birthday to each other because we are launching。
the seventh year as a church, as a church plan, as a church family.。
So it's a happy day. And so last week we celebrated Easter Sunday.。
And I want to tell you。
sometimes or most of the times。
we do treat Easter as an afterthought,。
a kind of a footnote,。
because we often feel like the center of Christianity,。
the center of being a Christian is the cross.。
Whatever Jesus did for us on the cross, he died for us sacrificially.。
He died for us redemptively and to rescue all of us as sinners.。
So sometimes we focus on the cross and there's nothing wrong with that.。
There's everything right about it, because biblical faith does center。
on the on the cross, on the accomplished work of Jesus Christ.。
And that's why we celebrate and worship together on Good Friday.。
Right. Were you here?。
And that's why we also celebrate Easter.。
However, sometimes I get the feeling that, you know, after Easter,。
after we talk about resurrection and then we get it done。
and then we just move on. Right.。
And then we focus on, OK, the love of God, the love of Jesus on the cross.。
Though there's nothing wrong with that.。
However, if you flip the pages of the Bible,。
New Testament, particularly all four Gospels,。
all the New Testament books, especially the letters to the churches,。
especially Paul's letters to the churches.。
They often remind the early believers,。
the early church to center their beliefs, not just on the cross,。
not just on the love of God, but on the resurrection of Jesus Christ,。
the son of God.。
I don't know if you pay attention to that.。
If you check all of the early church documents.。
Including Apostles Creed,。
we recite that last Sunday on Easter Sunday。
as we worship together.。
The Apostles Creed has 12 articles.。
And whoever draft that those 12 articles。
and summarizing the entire biblical faith in 12 statements,。
they did not forget to add, I believe in what?。
The resurrection.。
The resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
I believe in that.。
And that's why we have hope.。
And that's why our faith is founded on solid rock.。
So that's why I want to start this mini series on living the resurrection。
to remember what resurrection means for us.。
And don't just think that this is a footnote of Christianity,。
just a footnote of the biblical faith.。
Because again, as I said, all four Gospels and all the epistles,。
all the letters to the churches, especially Paul's letters,。
never stop at the cross.。
They move on.。
Yes, on the cross, God redeems us.。
Jesus died for us, sacrificially for mankind, for sinners.。
But all four Gospels, all Paul's letters。
go to a great length, emphasizing。
the fact of empty tomb, the fact that Jesus' tomb is empty。
and the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
The early church did.。
And so we should. Right.。
So there are two points I want to share with you.。
And those are very, very important points for this。
first part of the sermon.。
But before we do that, let's read the scripture.。
And I picked this passage, this story.。
It's a long, kind of long 18 verses。
record of the first Easter Sunday.。
I want you to go through this 18 verses, this story,。
this historical account with a mind that,。
you know, you all go students, right?。
You're good students.。
As good students, we pay attention to details. Right.。
So we're going to read through this 18 verses.。
And I want to I want you to pay attention to some of the details。
and ask the question why the details are there.。
All right.。
Gospel of John, chapter 20, verse one.。
Early on Sunday morning, while it was still dark,。
Mary Madeline came to the tomb and found that the stone。
had been rolled away from the entrance.。
She ran and found Simon, Peter and the other disciple,。
the one whom Jesus loved should be John.。
As you said, they have taken the Lord's body of the tomb。
and we don't know where they have put him.。
Peter and the other disciples start off for the tomb.。
They were both running and the other disciple outran Peter.。
Probably John is the little John and he's younger.。
So he's he he's outrunning Peter and he reached a tomb first.。
So he stood and look in to the tomb and saw the linen。
wrappings lying there.。
But he did not go in.。
Then Simon, Peter finally came, finally arrived.。
Trying to catch his breath and went inside the tomb.。
He also noticed the linen wrappings lying there。
while the cloth that had covered Jesus head and was。
it was fold up and lying apart from the other wrappings.。
Then the disciple who had reached the tomb first。
also went to the tomb and he saw and believed.。
For until then, they still had not understood the scriptures。
that said Jesus must rise from the dead.。
Then they went home.。
Mary, however, was standing outside the tomb crying。
and as she wept, she stood and looked inside the tomb.。
She saw two white robe angels, one sitting at the head,。
the other at the foot of at the foot of the place。
where the body of Jesus had been lying.。
Dear woman, why are you crying?。
The angels asked her, because they have taken away my Lord,。
she replied, and I don't know where they have put him.。
She turned to leave and saw someone standing there.。
It was Jesus, but she did not recognize him.。
Dear woman, why are you crying?。
Jesus asked her, who are you looking for?。
She thought he was the gardener.。
So she said, if you have taken him away,。
tell me where you have put him.。
I will go and get him.。
Mary, Jesus said, she turned to him and cried out,。
"Rabboni," which in Hebrew means rabbi, teacher.。
"Don't cling to me," Jesus said,。
"for I have not yet ascended to the Father,。
but go find my brothers and tell them,。
I'm ascending to my Father and your Father,。
to my God and your God."。
Mary Magdalene found the disciples and told them,。
"I have seen the Lord."。
Then she gave them his message.。
Eighteen verses.。
And there are two points here.。
A very important point.。
The first one is the historical reliability,。
the historical authenticity of the first Easter Sunday account。
that we found in the Bible.。
The historical authenticity.。
When you read the record, when you read the story,。
there is a, you find marks and marks of authenticity。
that is a true report.。
There's a true news report.。
And the second point is the new creation has begun。
on Easter Sunday.。
Now, first point, historical authenticity.。
Now, like good students, right?。
You're good students and there are many good,。
moody students here, all right?。
I'm going to give you a quiz.。
(laughs)。
Just kidding.。
(laughs)。
As you read the story, pay attention to some of the details.。
Pay attention to some of the details.。
What are some of the details that would bear the marks。
of historical authenticity?。
Now, what do I mean by that?。
What do I mean by that?。
If you know there's an event that happened。
and you turn on the TV or you go to YouTube,。
you read some news report.。
You probably read the version from CNN, NBC, CBS,。
or any news channel.。
And you find different versions of the same event, right?。
Yes, the details are different.。
Some of the minor details are different.。
However, these reports have the marks of authenticity.。
The marks, what marks them authentic is not。
because all these accounts are exactly the same.。
On the other hand, it is because the exact details。
are all different, they bear the marks of authenticity.。
The Gospel of Matthew, the first gospel。
of the four gospels, said who first witnessed。
the empty tomb was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary.。
The gospel mark, Mary Magdalene, and there's another Mary.。
By the way, there were a lot of people called Mary。
back in the first century.。
So you go on the street and you call Mary,。
there are probably 10 or 20 people responding to you.。
Hey, yeah, right, Mary's here.。
And gospel mark, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Jesus。
and other women were there.。
Gospel of Luke, the women, and also Mary Magdalene。
and other named women were there.。
Gospel of John, we just read, only Mary Magdalene was there。
because the camera is on Mary Magdalene, on her only.。
Now, all four accounts are quite different,。
but because they are different,。
that's why they can be historical reliable, right?。
Authentic.。
Now, pay also attention to the two pieces of linen cloth.。
There's one wrapping the head of Jesus' body,。
the other piece of cloth wrapping his body.。
So there are two pieces.。
In fact, archeologists tells us。
what we found in the first century tomb,。
all the first century tombs around Jerusalem,。
when they wrapped the body, prepared the body to be buried,。
they have two pieces of cloth,。
one for head and one for the body.。
So as you can tell, the account was very, very authentic,。
reflecting the custom of the day.。
One more detail.。
Both pieces of linen cloth were neatly folded up.。
You don't see any signs of disorder,。
or the tomb being robbed, or the tomb being sabotaged.。
Everything is in order.。
You look into, they look into the empty tomb,。
everything is in order.。
How many of you make your bed after you wake up?。
How many of you?。
How many?。
One.。
Wow.。
We don't, two, okay.。
What minorities?。
You don't?。
I don't make my bed.。
I don't make my bed.。
So in some sense, if someone walked into your room right now,。
they probably would think this is in chaos, right?。
Or probably some thieves just went there,。
just robbed your bedroom, right?。
But on the other hand, the tomb of Jesus was in order.。
Everything is in order.。
Now, aside all these details,。
I'm sure you pick up the other detail.。
The other detail is the appearance of women.。
The women are the first witnesses。
of the resurrection of Jesus.。
And what is authentic about it。
is that if you understand the first century context,。
the background of first century,。
women were often looked down by men.。
No surprise, right?。
It was a patriarchal culture.。
You know, all through the years,。
I have collected some of the Jewish writings。
that reflect the men's attitude toward women.。
And I want to share with you.。
There were a few of them, all right?。
So I want you to read this, not in the Bible,。
not in the Bible, but it's outside of the Bible,。
outside scripture.。
And this statement or this sentence, this writings,。
are reflecting the patriarchal attitude,。
perspective on women.。
You ready?。
First one.。
This is what the rabbi said, okay?。
This is what the rabbi said.。
"So long as a man talks too much with a woman,。
he will bring to himself three consequences.。
These three bad consequences is first one,。
he, the man, will bring trouble on himself。
if he talks too much with a woman.。
Second is, waste his time being spent on studying the Torah."。
Right?。
You want to do Bible study than talking to a woman.。
Number three is that you will end up in hell, right?。
Gehenna, right?。
Era of Gehenna.。
Now what kind of attitude is that?。
The man are looking down the woman, right?。
Second, again, this is what the rabbi said,。
or the Jewish rabbi of Jesus' day.。
He said, "Because women are gluttonous,。
they like to eat, they like to eat a lot,。
for she is suspect of uncovering the instant part。
of her female friends to find out what she is cooking."。
Now that kind of attitude is reflected。
by men who wrote this thing,。
and how they see women, right?。
Because women, they like to cook,。
and they like to eat,。
and they have no self-control.。
They don't even lack of self-control with what they cook,。
but they are curious about what other people,。
their neighbor, are cooking.。
Number three, Josephus, a first century Jewish historian.。
He said, "Let not a single witness be credited,。
but three or two at the least,。
and those such whose testimony is confirmed。
by the good lives.。
But let not the testimony of women be admitted to the court。
on account of the levity and boldness of their sex."。
There you go, you can see how men see women.。
By the way, that's not my perspective, all right?。
That is the perspective of the first century people,。
especially Jewish society.。
So again, if you look at the women。
of the story of the first Easter Sunday,。
you would not expect women to be there.。
If someone would fabricate a story。
and make you believe that Jesus did rise from the dead,。
he would not write such a account, right?。
He would say the first one who witnessed the empty tomb。
must have been one of the disciples, one of the males,。
because their testimony has to be。
more credible than the women.。
Now, reverse that question.。
You're gonna ask, why did the gospel writers,。
all four of them, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
they recorded the way they did,。
that the women were the first witnesses of the empty tomb?。
Well, very likely, it did happen that way.。
So they cannot lie.。
They just have to report the truth, right?。
Now, I'm sure if you read the empty tomb story,。
the first Easter Sunday story,。
you probably get the feeling。
that the women were going in and out,。
nobody's tracking them, they're not afraid of anything, right?。
And the male disciples, where were they?。
Where were they when Jesus died?。
They were hiding, they were hiding.。
Now, what's going on here?。
Nobody care about the women going in and out of the tomb。
and checking on the tomb?。
I remember some years ago,。
I heard a testimony from a Christian missionary。
who went to Middle East for some mission work.。
And he was telling us that it was time of war.。
So both sides are fighting,。
with the guns and tanks and all that.。
And the defensive side, all the men were hiding。
because they were scared.。
But the missionary was telling us that, you know,。
from eight to five in the morning, in the afternoon,。
the women are going on the street and going to supermarket。
and get their vegetables, get their food,。
and then go back home and then they cook.。
They bring the kids outside and then they come back in, right?。
So this is kind of the context of the gospel account.。
The men were hiding because the government,。
the Roman Jerusalem government,。
were looking for the Jesus followers。
and persecute after them, right?。
They want to pursue them, they want to arrest them。
because they're starting a movement。
that will rock the boat of the society.。
They would disturb the peace of the society.。
So they were looking after and pursuing the male disciples.。
While the women, nobody cared, right?。
Nobody cared because women,。
in those days, they have the anti-woman attitude, right?。
So you look at the empty tomb account,。
the first Easter Sunday account,。
this sort of cultural anti-woman attitude is not there。
because the first witnesses of the empty tomb。
were the women.。
In fact, if you track the story of Luke,。
after the women discover that Jesus rose from the dead,。
they went back to the male disciples.。
And the male disciples, how did they respond?。
The story sounds like nonsense to the men.。
So they did not believe it.。
Don't think for a minute, don't even think about,。
okay, because they're ancient people, 2,000 years ago,。
they didn't have iPad, they didn't have iPhone,。
they didn't know anything better.。
We know science, we know how the world works, right?。
And don't think that because they're ancient people,。
so they must have believed the resurrection.。
No, it says Luke 24, 11.。
The story sounds like nonsense to the men,。
to the male disciples.。
So you get the feel that none of the disciples is ready。
for the resurrection of Jesus.。
Now, to tell you the truth, in Jesus' day,。
most of the Jews believe in bodily resurrection.。
They believe the physical resurrection of the human body.。
Because there's a hope in Jewish theology in those days,。
that in the eschaton, in the final day,。
when everything, God will set everything right。
in the final day, the eschaton,。
the last day of human history,。
God will come and his glory will descend,。
and everything will be set right.。
There will be justice, there will be peace。
and righteousness and love, and all that stuff.。
And when everything will be consummated,。
the new creation will finally come.。
And they all believe that.。
Most of the Jews, they will believe。
and look forward to that day,。
and all the dead will rise from the dead.。
So they have some sort of idea of resurrection.。
But what caught them surprise。
on the first Easter Sunday morning。
was that Jesus rose from the dead first,。
before everyone else.。
Jesus is the first man who conquered the tomb,。
and he was resurrected from the tomb,。
and his tomb is empty.。
And what caught them surprise was this.。
Hey, we were looking for some day。
that God will consummate every single thing。
in our universe, the new heaven and new earth will descend,。
and glory will fill the entire world, and entire cosmos.。
But hey, now Jesus rose from the dead,。
and that is surprising, because we didn't expect that.。
I remember when my kids were younger,。
they go to elementary school,。
and there were some days they set aside,。
it's called the pajamas day.。
You know pajamas day?。
They wear pajamas, and then they go to school,。
and then the teachers will also wear pajamas。
and go to school, right?。
And they kind of have fun, right?。
You know I think about it,。
the first Sunday was kind of like that.。
It's like a pajamas day.。
Okay, so imagine with me, imagine with me,。
in the early morning, six o'clock, six a.m.,。
the sun rises, breaking the dawn,。
six o'clock, and where are you?。
You're still in bed, right?。
You're still in bed, and you're still in your pajamas.。
And you hear knocking on the door.。
Six o'clock, you're still in bed with your pajamas.。
Six o'clock, somebody knocking on your door loudly.。
And from the outside, you hear a voice,。
hey, this is Joe, Joe Biden.。
I'm at your door.。
I have coffee and I have donut ready for you.。
Please let me come in, you open the door.。
And how will you respond?。
How will you respond?。
You probably will brush your teeth and wash your faces,。
and you're still in your pajamas,。
and you open the door, right?。
And you hear, hey Joe, right, can you help me with taxes?。
You know, I need some help, right?。
You invite him to come in,。
he is the biggest man in this country.。
And coming, knocking on your door.。
Now this is kind of like the first Easter Sunday morning.。
The disciples were not quite ready.。
They were still in their pajamas.。
They just don't know what to do yet.。
The first Easter Sunday was kind of like that.。
Jesus rose from the dead unexpectedly and surprisingly.。
And that's why in the New Testament, in the early church,。
they were trying to sort out。
what is going on in the empty tomb.。
What is going on in the bodily resurrection of Jesus?。
When Jesus met them, talked to them about the kingdom of God,。
they were trying to figure out what is going on。
because yes, we're looking forward to some day,。
the final day, everybody will rise from the dead.。
But however, Jesus is the first guy who rise from the dead.。
And that's why the New Testament uses some terms。
to try to understand what is going on。
with resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
They describe Jesus Christ,。
one of the example is first fruit of the harvest.。
Now if you're farmers, you know how it works.。
The first produce harvest from your field。
will guarantee the rest of the field。
will have harvest for you.。
And that's why the first fruit。
will guarantee the rest of the fruit.。
First fruit is the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
You see him, he rose from the dead, his tomb is empty,。
and he has defeated death, decay, and destruction.。
He has defeated evil and will guarantee the finishing off。
of everything God is going to do.。
If you read the Bible carefully,。
actually you don't have to read much.。
If you read the first two chapters of the Bible,。
Genesis one and two,。
and you read the last two chapters of the Bible,。
which is Revelation chapter 21 and 22, right?。
First two chapter and last two chapters,。
you figure out the entire Bible is a grand story.。
It's a grand narrative that God created the world all good.。
That is the original creation.。
And sin came into the world and evil destroyed the world。
and twisted everything else, right?。
So partially we can see the original creation。
is still good today.。
However, there were a lot of things,。
you observe the universe are being twisted.。
You see pollution, you see racism,。
you see all kinds of different issues with our world.。
It's good and bad, it's a mixed bag.。
But God is going to bring everything to the finish line,。
which is the new creation.。
You read the last two chapters of the Bible,。
Revelation chapter 21 and 22.。
You see that it's not just us escaping from the earth,。
escaping from this physical world universe.。
It's that the, it's on the other hand,。
it's the heaven descending to the earth.。
It's like our Lord's prayer.。
You know how do we say that?。
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be thy name,。
thy kingdom come, the future kingdom will come.。
Your will will be established on earth as it is in heaven.。
This is kind of like a vision, a future vision。
of what God will be doing.。
And what God will be doing is that he will bring heaven。
and earth together and the new earth。
and new heaven will arrive.。
And now with the resurrection of Jesus Christ,。
all of a sudden the future kingdom launch into our world.。
The new chapter has begun.。
The new creation has become.。
And we'll see this new creation being fulfilled finally。
in the final day.。
However, in the Jesus resurrection,。
we see that this chapter has already opened.。
This chapter has already launched.。
So my second point is that not only did Easter Sunday。
account in the gospels were authentic historically,。
the new creation in the first Easter morning。
was that the new creation has come.。
It has arrived.。
What we looking forward to the new kingdom,。
the new reality has already broken into our lives,。
broken into our world.。
Easter Sunday is the beginning of that new creation,。
heaven and earth.。
But those of us, I know not many of us here who are older,。
we should remember there's an old hymn called In the Garden.。
Now I don't know if that rings any bell,。
but you check In the Garden hymn, you check the lyrics.。
The hymn says, you know, me and Jesus walking in the garden.。
Everything is so nice.。
You know, the birds are singing and the nature is so nice.。
The weather is so nice, unlike Chicago.。
And everything is so warm and it's like a spring.。
And I'm walking with Jesus in the garden.。
It's a song, it's a hymn that communicates,。
that reflects the communion we have,。
the fellowship that we have with God, right?。
But if you think about it further,。
you know, the Bible or what Jesus has done for all of us,。
is not just going back to the good old days.。
It's not going back to the first chapter of the Bible,。
going back to Eden.。
It's not back to paradise.。
It's a linear development that we look forward。
someday salvation will come to all of us.。
And that salvation is not just our soul or our spirit。
being released or escape from this physical dying body.。
What God is doing, the creation and redemption project,。
is to rescue everything in our cosmos.。
Not only our soul will be escaping。
from this physical bodies, this dying body,。
and then we're just kind of flowing in the heaven。
and sitting on the cloud and that's it.。
That's only the first part.。
The second part, the final part, is the physical redemption.。
That is the final destination.。
That is the final finishing off。
of God's entire project of redemption.。
Redeeming all of us, even our physicality,。
our physical body.。
Parents with young kids probably have this sort of experience。
and I remember when I was younger and our kids were younger,。
sometimes we plan for a long road trip.。
So we drive from Chicago to,。
let's say for example, we go to Disney World.。
Disney World in Florida.。
And how many hours of driving that would take?。
Many, many hours.。
So on the long road trip, we'll just get everything packed。
and then put in a minivan and then we'll just drive off.。
And then there's always many stops in between.。
So as today, you go on the highway。
and then sometimes you need a stop in between,。
bathroom break or lunch break,。
and then we go to McDonald's.。
Our kids will go into McDonald's and as you can tell,。
McDonald's is a very nice place,。
and they go in and they get the hamburgers,。
they get fries and happy meals。
and almost all the McDonald's have playland。
attached to the restaurant.。
And then the kids will, after they eat,。
and then they'll go in and play and take off their shoes。
and just play in the playland.。
And there are times that daddy, mommy are saying,。
"We gotta go because we are not there yet."。
And they were crying and then yelling at us。
and almost we have to abuse them。
to grab them out of the playland, right?。
Because we are not there yet, right?。
They are so happy because of the playland,。
they thought this is the Disney World,。
this is the whole story.。
No way, I said, "Son and daughter, we gotta go.。
"Come on, man, we gotta go.。
"Wake up, we have a final destination to hit."。
Now sometimes I feel that Christian faith。
and Christian life is like that。
because we stop at the playland,。
just the grass, just God loving us.。
Yeah, good, that's very nice.。
However, these two stories telling us。
the new creation yet to come and has already here, right?。
Someday it will bring to the finish end.。
So don't think for a moment that God merely redeemed us。
so that our souls will go to heaven。
and we're sitting on a cloud.。
No, this is not the salvation that we have in the Bible.。
Otherwise, there's no need for empty tomb.。
There's no need for resurrection of Jesus Christ。
in his empty tomb.。
The best is yet to come and it has already begun.。
It is so revolutionary to the first century Christians。
that they even changed the day of their worship.。
For Jewish Christians, they used to worship。
on the seventh day, the Shabbat of the week,。
the seventh day, the last day of the week.。
However, when Christians came to faith,。
they understood the reality of resurrection.。
They changed the worship day to first day of the week,。
Sunday of the week, that they worship Jesus Christ。
because he has begun the new creation.。
This is why when the Bible talks about resurrection,。
it's not an afterthought.。
It's the core of our belief.。
It's the foundation that we have hope.。
Yes, we live in a sad world.。
This is a broken world in many different ways.。
You look around our cosmos, our world,。
you see, hey, everything is not working right, right?。
There are issues, there are problems,。
there are twists and distortion that we see.。
However, it's the linear hope that someday God will come。
and Jesus will bring about the new heaven and new earth.。
And in the empty tomb, now we see that.。
The new creation, the new chapter has begun.。
When you accept Jesus Christ, this new reality has begun.。
You have a new life and this new life will consummate,。
will finish off someday in the future.。
And who guarantees it?。
It's the empty tomb of our Jesus Christ.。
I wanna close with the last verse of this Easter story,。
John chapter 20, 18.。
It says, "Mary Magdalene found the male disciples。
"and told them, 'I have seen the Lord.。
"'I have seen the Lord.。
"'The new life has begun in all of us in Christ.'"。
You are being sent, just like Jesus sent Mary,。
the first witness, to go out to her world。
and to tell of the resurrection of Jesus Christ,。
the new life that we have in Christ.。
How do we do that?。
You know, in our daily life, you have your own role.。
Maybe you're a housewife,。
maybe you're a worker in your workplace.。
Maybe you're someone who thought。
that you're not significant enough.。
Well, we're all are very small figures in our own world,。
but we make the resurrected Jesus Christ。
visible by our lives.。
Talk in a new way, in a biblical way.。
Relay in a biblical way.。
Relay to other people.。
Care for other people in a new way。
because the new life has already begun.。
Shall we do that?。
Shall we do that this week?。
Bring that message of resurrection,。
that hope, that new life, into your own life.。
Relay to your spouse, relay to your kids,。
your neighbors, in a totally different, brand new way。
because that is what Jesus' resurrection is all about.。
Yes, the best is yet to come,。
but it has already begun.。
And let it begin with our lives.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we praise you because of the resurrection。
that we have in Jesus Christ, our Lord.。
As we reflect on the teaching of resurrection,。
the accounts of resurrection,。
praise you, thank you.。
Thank you for the arrival of the kingdom,。
the new creation has begun.。
And we want to offer our praises and our worship to you.。
And may our lives be visible to other people,。
the reality of the empty tomb.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
