Thank you.。
Well, it's a blessing and a pleasure。
to be speaking with you guys again today.。
So thank you all for allowing me to be here.。
Today is the 3rd of December,。
and so if you weren't aware,。
allow me to be the first one to tell you。
that it is officially Christmas season.。
Yes, it's the most wonderful time of the year.。
And when I was putting this together,。
I thought about singing that line,。
but nobody really wants that.。
Nobody wants to hear me sing.。
That wouldn't be good for anybody.。
But Christmas time, it's the time for Christmas trees,。
Christmas cookies, and Christmas decorations.。
It's a time to decorate houses, give gifts,。
wear matching pajamas,。
and one of my favorite parts of the Christmas season。
is that it's the only time of the year。
I can find eggnog at the grocery store.。
Are there any eggnog-like lovers in the audience。
by show of hands?。
Oh, only a couple?。
All right, that's fine.。
All right, I'll have to scratch the next five minutes。
of what I was gonna talk about.。
No, I'm just kidding.。
But something that's more important than eggnog,。
pajamas, cookies, is that this is the time of year。
we celebrate the birth of our Savior and Messiah,。
Jesus Christ.。
For many Christians, it's a time of Advent。
where we recognize and look back,。
celebrating the first coming of our Lord into this world,。
and we look forward in anticipation。
to His second coming into this world.。
So for many reasons, Christmas time。
should be a time of great cheer,。
a time of joy, and a time of hope.。
But unfortunately for many people, this isn't the case.。
For many people, the holiday season。
is actually a time of stress, a time of sadness.。
So I did a little looking into this,。
and in a recent study done by the National Alliance。
on Mental Illness, researchers found。
that three out of five Americans。
feel their mental health is negatively impacted。
during this Christmas season.。
Another study done by the American Psychological Association。
finds that 88% of people in America。
struggle with stress during the holidays.。
And there were many other studies done,。
and maybe some of you, people you know,。
have experiences that lead us to this conclusion。
that for some people, the holidays。
are actually a very tough, difficult time.。
But I wanna talk a little about why is it.。
Why is it that during what is supposed to be。
the most wonderful time of the year,。
people seem to feel anything but wonderful?。
Why during this season, which is a time。
that should be full of good tidings of great joy,。
are there so many people who don't feel that joy,。
who don't feel that cheer, and don't have that hope?。
For some, this could be caused by financial concern,。
worrying about making ends meet。
while you're finding gifts for family and friends,。
while you plan for the year ahead.。
That could be a source of stress.。
For other people, it's a time of loneliness.。
The distance between us and our family and friends,。
it feels a little extra distant.。
It feels a little extra heavy。
when we're not together during the holidays.。
As you mentioned, the weather also plays a part。
in this kind of dampened mood.。
It gets colder, nights are longer, days are shorter.。
Here in Chicago, the sun doesn't shine past 4 p.m.。
And that's honestly a little bit depressing。
because it's only getting colder and darker from here.。
And for some people, the cold weather。
can bring about aches and pains,。
kind of sort of triggers this flare up,。
you know, of maybe arthritis or something in your body.。
So the cold and the darkness certainly has an effect。
on people's mental health.。
But while this holiday hopelessness。
can be caused by a number of varying factors,。
there's ultimately one reason behind it all,。
one source behind this lack of joy, peace, and hope.。
And it's sin, it's the reality that we live。
in a fallen world, a world stained by sin.。
Sin is the source of all human suffering,。
sadness, and sorrow.。
And this is the unfortunate reality。
that we all face on a daily basis.。
We live in a sin-stained world,。
and in this world, even the most beautiful things。
that should bring us the most joy and wonder。
can be corrupted by sin.。
That's why it's no surprise to see that。
during a time of year that should be filled。
with joy, peace, and happiness,。
many are suffering.。
We see something beautiful corrupted by sin,。
pain instead of peace, strife instead of serenity,。
hopelessness instead of happiness.。
Yet in the same way that we see this exchange。
of pain in the place of peace,。
something beautiful corrupted by sin,。
it's not just something that affects us.。
We can actually trace this pattern all the way back。
through the history of humankind to the beginning。
when we see that exchange take place.。
But in the same way that we can trace the problem,。
sin, back to the beginning,。
we can also find the solution to that problem。
from the very beginning.。
And so that's something that I wanna talk about today。
is how God from the very beginning。
has offered his people hope.。
And it was this hope, this promise of God。
that the people of God have looked to,。
have held onto for thousands of years,。
and it is this hope that has kept God's people。
even in the midst of great suffering, troubles, and trials.。
And so it's this very same hope that we can look to today,。
whether it's Christmas time,。
whether it's after Christmas time, in between,。
we look to this hope as a solution。
for our own sorrows and troubles.。
And so I wanna look together at Genesis chapter three.。
So we're gonna get into the text。
and I can stop just ranting.。
Well, actually, no, I'm gonna talk a little bit more。
then we'll get into the text。
because I wanna set the scene a little bit, right?。
I wanna give you guys some context。
for what is going on when we see here Genesis chapter three.。
So allow me to set the scene.。
So if you want, this is your thing,。
close your eyes, imagine it.。
You don't have to if you don't want to,。
but just picture it.。
There's total darkness, nothingness.。
The world is empty and blank.。
It's void of anything.。
And then a voice calls out into this nothingness,。
let there be light.。
And there was light.。
And then God creates the heavens and the earth.。
He puts all the galaxies, the solar systems,。
the stars in their place, the sun and the moon.。
He creates the earth and he takes all the water on the earth。
and he divides it and separates it and brings up the land.。
Well, then he plants seeds, trees,。
fruit bearing trees on the land.。
He fills the land with all kind of animal life, plant life.。
He fills the water with all kind of fish and wildlife.。
And you see God is building, designing step by step,。
day by day, this beautiful creation.。
And all of this creation that he made,。
that he powerfully, wisely, perfectly spoke into existence。
is doing something.。
The sun, the moon, the stars, the earth,。
the animals, the trees, the mountains,。
even the smallest grain of sand on the beach。
is declaring the glory of God.。
And we see all this happening,。
declaring the infinite glory of God as we go day one,。
day two, day three.。
And it's as if it's all leading up to a point, a climax,。
the pinnacle of creation on day six when God creates man.。
And so God takes from the earth the dirt and he forms a man.。
He forms him and designs him, the scripture says,。
and he breathes into him the breath of life.。
And in that we see something that God creates mankind。
in his own image.。
Nothing in all of creation can say that they are made。
or it is made in the image of God.。
But this one man is made in his image。
and all of his descendants made in the image of God.。
And so all of creation, all this perfection,。
all this beauty we just imagined, God gives to the man.。
And even amongst the perfect world,。
God sets aside a perfect garden。
and he places the man in the garden to keep it,。
to tend it, to live off of the fruit。
and all the bounty that God has given the man,。
everything he could possibly need.。
And then we see as the man is giving names。
to all the creatures, all the animals,。
he has a realization because when he,。
I'm imagining this, when he names the giraffe,。
he sees a daddy giraffe and a mommy giraffe.。
And he names a tiger, he sees the boy tiger。
and the girl tiger.。
Well, he realizes that all these animals。
have their pair and their mate, but I'm alone.。
That as good as these animals are,。
there's none that matches me,。
there's none that is perfect for me.。
I don't have a companion.。
And so God creates for him, he puts him to sleep。
and takes from his own side, his own flesh and bones。
and creates a perfect, suitable companion for this man.。
He creates the first woman and he gives her,。
like a husband giving his daughter in marriage,。
he brings her and gives her to the man.。
And the man sings out this praise,。
I think you could say it's the first psalm。
that we see in the scriptures when he thanks God。
and praises him for this woman he's given him,。
this helper, flesh of my flesh, bone of my bone.。
And we see that after this happens,。
it's almost as if God stops and he looks at the man。
and the woman and all the animals and all the trees。
and the plants and the waters and the stars。
and the sun and the moon, and he declares。
that it is very good.。
Absolute paradise, total perfection,。
no sin, no death, no pain, no toil, no suffering or sadness.。
In the garden of Eden, Adam and Eve had everything。
they could ever need and everything they could ever want.。
And this is where we begin chapter three.。
So I'll be reading from Genesis chapter three,。
verses one through 15, if you wanna follow along.。
Now the serpent was more crafty。
than any of the other beasts of the field。
that the Lord God had made.。
He said to the woman, did God actually say。
you shall not eat of any tree in the garden?。
And so I wanna stop a few places here。
as I read through this passage to point out。
some of these things that I think we can really。
gain a lot of wisdom from in seeing。
how did this first temptation take place?。
Because I believe that the tactics of the enemy。
have not really changed.。
There's nothing new under the sun.。
And so this form of temptation that we see。
come against the man and the woman and their response,。
we can experience those same things.。
And so we should learn from this.。
And so the first thing we see, the very first temptation,。
this first inkling of sin entering the world,。
it is a questioning and a doubting the word of God.。
When the serpent says to Eve, did God actually say this?。
What he's doing is he's questioning,。
creating doubt within the woman's mind。
of whether or not God's word is trustworthy,。
whether or not God is credible and reliable or authoritative.。
Did he actually say that?。
Do you really have to follow that?。
Are you sure you heard that correctly?。
There's that seed of doubt.。
And the woman responds and rightly corrects him.。
And she says, we may eat of the fruit。
of the trees in the garden, but God said,。
you shall not eat of the fruit of the tree。
that is in the midst of the garden.。
Neither shall you touch it lest you die.。
And so two things we see in Eve's response。
that are a little curious is that。
when you look at the previous chapter,。
God never said they couldn't touch the fruit。
or touch the tree.。
Somehow Adam and Eve, I don't know if they misheard。
or added it maybe for their own protection,。
but they added something to what God had said.。
What's more, we see that Satan,。
and this is, I believe, still one of his tactics today.。
He flips what God says.。
And so when we see God spoke to Adam that all the trees,。
all the fruit you can eat from, but not this one.。
What Satan does is he minimizes what God has given Adam。
and he maximizes that restriction.。
It says, did God say you couldn't eat from any tree?。
And so what Satan does is he wants the woman。
and the man to focus on the one thing God said。
wasn't for them that they shouldn't have.。
Instead of focusing on all that God had given them,。
I'm somebody who loves fruit.。
You can ask my wife, you can ask Rachel.。
I love fruit, I'm always looking for new fruit.。
There's so many fruit in the world,。
and they had all of it, and I can't believe it.。
They allow the devil to tempt them to only focus。
on that one tree they couldn't have.。
But as much as I have a hard time understanding。
why they would do that, we do the same thing.。
God has given us so much goodness in the world,。
and yet we're often tempted to focus on those things。
that we can't have because there's something in human pride。
that doesn't like God telling us what we can't do,。
what we can't say, what we can't have.。
We don't like that.。
And so instead of rejoicing and enjoying。
all the good things God has given us when we sin,。
we choose to instead enjoy the few things。
that God says, this isn't good for you.。
I don't want this for you, don't have that.。
And we rebel against God just as Adam and Eve did.。
And so my first thing is that we should learn from this.。
The first thing we can gain from this。
is to focus on the good God has given us,。
to overcome the temptation towards the bad。
that is not good for us.。
I'll continue from verse four.。
But the serpent said to the woman,。
you will not surely die, for God knows。
that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened,。
and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.。
Again, further doubting, now outright denying.。
At first it started with questioning,。
did God really say that?。
To outright denying, that's not true.。
Okay, God said that, but it's not true.。
And I think today we should also be aware of。
and on guard against similar temptations。
to mistrust or outright deny the word of God,。
that he's graciously given us for our good.。
So the temptation comes in verse six,。
says that when the woman saw the tree was good for food,。
and that it was a delight to the eyes,。
and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise,。
she took of its fruit and ate,。
and she also gave some to her husband who was with her,。
and he ate.。
Then the eyes of both were opened,。
and they knew that they were naked,。
and they sewed fig leaves together。
and made themselves loincloths.。
Adam and Eve had been naked from the beginning.。
Nothing new happened except this loss of innocence,。
where they realized they were naked.。
But the thing with that is that。
there was nothing wrong with nakedness.。
God had made them naked, and it was good.。
But we see what happens here。
when they took and ate of that fruit,。
their morality, their minds, their conscience was corrupted.。
They had lost their sense of innocence.。
And we see that entrance of sin,。
guilt, and shame into the world,。
to the point they tried to cover themselves with leaves,。
which you'll see later in the chapter,。
it was not sufficient.。
That's another sermon that I could,。
there's so many sermons you can get from this passage,。
but just remember that.。
They tried to cover themselves, but it wasn't sufficient.。
So, verse eight.。
They heard the sound of the Lord God。
walking in the garden in the cool of the day,。
and the man and his wife hid themselves。
from the presence of the Lord God。
among the trees of the garden.。
But the Lord God called to the man and said to him,。
"Where are you?"。
Now, I wanna make a point here。
that when God asked this question,。
he wasn't asking questions the way we ask questions.。
We ask questions because we wanna learn something.。
There's some piece of knowledge we don't have,。
and we want to get it.。
That's not how it works with God.。
God already knows everything.。
There was never a time where God learned something,。
because God already knows everything.。
So, when he asked Adam, "Where are you?"。
It wasn't because he didn't know where Adam was.。
It's because he wanted to prick the conscience of Adam,。
so Adam would reflect, "What am I doing?。
"Where am I?。
"I'm hiding from God."。
Which doesn't even, how can you hide from the God。
who knows all things?。
Whose eyes are everywhere, who sees everything?。
That was the point of this question,。
was to prick Adam's conscience.。
And Adam says this, "I heard the sound of you in the garden,。
"and I was afraid, because I was naked and I hid myself."。
So Adam hid.。
He hid himself from God because of his guilt and shame,。
which we already know.。
I mentioned before, there's no logic in hiding from God.。
But we tend to do the same thing。
in a slightly different way,。
but it's the same thing at the heart of it,。
that when we sin against God and our conscience is pricked,。
we tend to feel that we ought to distance ourselves from God.。
Maybe we feel like, "Whatever I did this weekend,。
"I know it wasn't right.。
"I shouldn't go to church.。
"I can't fellowship.。
"I'm too guilty.。
"I'm not right the way others are right."。
Or we feel like, "I can't pray right now.。
"I can't go to God.。
"He's angry with me, 'cause he knows what I just did,。
"what I just said."。
Or maybe, "How could I pick up the Bible。
"and read it right now?。
"I'm such a hypocrite.。
"I just sinned, I can't."。
And so our sin causes us to hide from God in a sense.。
We turn from God.。
Well, on the flip side, how it should be is that。
when we sin, we ought to go to God,。
because he's the one who forgives us。
and cleanses us and makes us right.。
Sin should not separate us from God。
the way it did with Adam and Eve.。
We should go to God, confess our sins,。
and receive forgiveness and restoration.。
We're not gonna find that by hiding from God。
in many of the ways we try to.。
I'm gonna continue.。
Verse 11.。
God said, "Who told you that you were naked?。
"Have you eaten of the tree。
"of which I commanded you not to eat?"。
Now, this is an interesting part。
where we see something enter the world。
that we're also all still guilty of,。
called the blame game.。
Verse 12.。
"The man said, 'The woman you gave me to be with me.。
"She gave me the fruit of the tree, and I ate.'"。
So Adam not only puts the blame on the woman,。
well, she gave it to me,。
he also kind of puts the blame towards God,。
because it's the woman that you gave me.。
He's already pointing fingers.。
He's already passing the blame.。
Then what does the woman say?。
"The Lord God said to the woman,。
"What is this that you have done?"。
The woman said, "The serpent deceived me, and I ate."。
So we already see this lack of accountability。
and responsibility for sin.。
Instead of confessing and admitting guilt,。
it's, well, it's the woman's fault.。
Oh, it's the serpent's fault.。
Oh, God, it's your fault.。
You put us here.。
And we still struggle with that.。
It's difficult to take accountability when we sin.。
It's easier to think that, well, it's this person's fault.。
And, you know, no, I wasn't being rude.。
They just took it the wrong way,。
and they shouldn't have started with me.。
You know, we kind of steal all these things。
that Adam and Eve did and stumbled with here.。
They're still stumbling blocks for us today.。
We can learn a lot from reading this and from studying it。
and comparing what they did to what we should do.。
Okay, but I'll continue.。
The serpent deceived me, and I ate.。
I do want to note that after Adam and Eve sinned,。
it's important to see this, because in this next passage,。
we see the mercy of God, the justice of God,。
but also the mercy of God,。
because Adam and Eve had just been created by God。
from nothing, given everything.。
He gave them everything,。
and they immediately turned and rebelled。
and committed this heinous, high-handed sin。
against Almighty God, against their creator.。
And yet, God first turns to the serpent。
and punishes the serpent,。
not the man and the woman who had sinned against him.。
So even in that, you see some of God's mercy.。
God could have just started over from that second。
and created a new earth and a new Adam and a new Eve,。
but he was merciful.。
And the worst of this punishment is on the serpent.。
Verse 14, the Lord God said to the serpent,。
because you have done this,。
cursed are you above all livestock。
and above all beasts of the field.。
On your belly you shall go,。
and dust you shall eat all the days of your life.。
I will put enmity between you and the woman,。
and between your offspring and her offspring.。
He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel.。
So surely this was the darkest day in human history.。
It was the entrance of sin into the world,。
which at that time was a perfect world,。
an untarnished, unblemished world.。
Paradise was lost.。
We went from perfection to corruption.。
Innocence exchanged for guilt and shame.。
Purity exchanged for sin.。
Hope exchanged for hopelessness.。
Life exchanged for death.。
And even as bleak at times,。
depressing the current state of the world may seem,。
when you see all the terrible things happening。
in our city, in our country,。
surely you see it around the globe.。
I can guarantee you,。
nothing we have today is as dark as it was on that day,。
when darkness first entered the world.。
But as is often said,。
it's always darkest before the dawn.。
You see, in the midst of this very darkness,。
we find the advent, the emergence of light,。
a dawn of hope,。
a promise given by God himself,。
in which his people have held onto for thousands of years,。
a promise of salvation, redemption,。
restoration, and justice for mankind.。
And we find this promise, ironically, in a curse.。
In verse 15, the Lord God said to the serpent,。
"Because you have done this,。
"cursed are you above all livestock。
"and above all beasts of the field.。
"On your belly you shall go,。
"and dust you shall eat all the days of your life,"。
which is almost a metaphor,。
a picture of utter humiliation, lowliness, defeat.。
"I will put enmity," which is conflict, warfare,。
violence, "between you and the woman。
"and between your offspring and her offspring.。
"He shall bruise your head,。
"and you shall bruise his heel."。
So this is the curse that God gives to the serpent.。
But even in this curse, we find a promise。
when God says, interestingly,。
"I will put enmity between you and the woman,。
"between your offspring and her offspring.。
"He shall bruise your head."。
There's a pronoun there of an offspring of the woman.。
"He shall bruise your head,。
"and you shall bruise his heel."。
And so I wanna talk a little bit about that last part.。
He shall bruise your head, you shall bruise his heel.。
It's referring to the offspring or the seed of the woman.。
In Hebrew, this is the word zara.。
Its meaning is like an offspring, a descendant,。
a child, a literal seed.。
And in the Bible, when we see this word used in this way,。
it always refers to a man, the seed of Abraham,。
the seed of David.。
But in this one instance,。
of all the places I could find in the Bible,。
the seed describes a woman.。
And this is because the seed is in,。
and it comes from the man.。
It doesn't come from the woman.。
So it's curious that God would talk。
about the seed of a woman.。
This wouldn't really make sense normally,。
but I think this is significant.。
Because in this promise,。
the seed of the woman is referring to a certain someone.。
And if you can think of who it is,。
go ahead and just shout it out.。
Exactly, exactly.。
'Cause there's one person, one child,。
in all of human history,。
who was born without a human father.。
So literally, Jesus, the Messiah,。
born of the Virgin Mary,。
could only be the seed of a woman.。
Jesus Christ, the Son of God,。
the seed of the woman,。
promised by God from the very beginning。
that he would be the one to bruise,。
to crush the head of the serpent.。
God says, "He will bruise your head,。
"you will bruise his heel."。
And so you can compare the two.。
To bruise someone's heel,。
it's like a snake bite to the back.。
You don't see it coming.。
It's kind of an underhanded, deceptive attack.。
But if a serpent were to come on the stage,。
and I don't know if we have snakes in Chicago.。
I know we have rats.。
Maybe if we had some more snakes, we'd have less rats.。
But if a snake came on stage and bit me in the heel,。
it would hurt, it would not be great,。
but it wouldn't kill me.。
It's not a fatal blow.。
But if I turned around and stomped on that snake's head,。
that's it.。
It's a fatal blow.。
It's a death strike.。
A complete defeat for that snake.。
And so in that curse, there's also a promise。
that this one figure, this male offspring of the woman,。
this savior, would be bruised on the heel,。
would suffer some temporary defeat.。
But in that defeat, he would ultimately defeat the serpent.。
And so this passage right here is known。
as the Proto-Evangelium, which just means the first gospel.。
It is the first gospel message in all of the Bible.。
The first glimpse of hope, promise of redemption,。
fulfilled in Jesus Christ's death and resurrection.。
Because in death, Jesus was rejected and scorned。
by his own people, betrayed by them.。
Betrayed even by a disciple who he loved as a brother.。
On the way to the cross, he was abandoned。
by the rest of his disciples.。
In that crucifixion, in that rejection and abandonment,。
Jesus suffered the serpent's bite to the heel.。
Yet in his resurrection, he crushed the head of the serpent。
declaring victory over sin, death, and the grave.。
And so this was the hope, this savior figure to come,。
was the hope of Adam and Eve, that one of their descendants。
would one day crush the head of the serpent.。
That this figure, this messiah, the savior,。
would defeat Satan and rid humanity。
of his evil schemes once and for all.。
It is this savior who is the messiah of Israel,。
the one in which the people of Israel。
hoped in for thousands of years.。
The one whose birth we celebrate every year at Christmas.。
He is the one upon which all of our hopes rest.。
All of God's people rest their hope in this one savior.。
He is the solution to all of our problems.。
The ones that, the sin problem that has plagued。
all of mankind throughout history and plagues us today.。
Our problem is sin, it's devastating effects on our bodies,。
our families, every aspect of our life is marred by sin.。
But just as it is written, she will give birth to a son。
and you shall call his name Jesus.。
For he will save his people from their sins.。
This is the hope that we must cling on to.。
The same hope that Adam and Eve, even after the fall,。
even after such a devastating loss of perfection,。
this was the hope they held to.。
The same hope we see throughout the scriptures.。
So many of God's faithful held on to this hope。
of a savior, of a redeemer.。
One example I wanna look at from the book of Job.。
A great example, Job was a man who lost nearly everything,。
who by worldly standards had nothing to live for.。
His possessions, gone, his children, dead,。
his own friends accused him of evil.。
His wife even asked him, you know,。
why don't you just curse God and die already?。
Yet in spite of all his suffering and anguish,。
Job could confidently declare this.。
I know that my redeemer lives and that in the end,。
he will stand on the earth.。
And after my skin has been destroyed,。
yet in my flesh, I will see God.。
I myself will see him with my own eyes,。
I and not another, how my heart yearns within me.。
You see, despite Job's sorrow and suffering,。
he was able to hold on to hope in God, his redeemer.。
And so I ask, can you, can we say with Job,。
I know my redeemer lives in the midst of our suffering,。
my redeemer lives.。
In the midst of frustration, difficulty,。
disappointment with family, with friends,。
my redeemer lives.。
In the midst of pain and anguish, physical ailment,。
my redeemer lives.。
When you lose a loved one, my redeemer lives.。
You see, that is our hope, that Jesus Christ,。
the seed of the woman, he lives, he's our hope.。
It's this very same hope,。
which has been held onto for millennia.。
The prophets all wrote of it, they spoke of this hope.。
Many people have waited for thousands of years。
for this hope.。
Now we have him, we have this hope.。
Yet unlike all the people of God that came before us,。
we don't have to wait and look forward to it.。
We look back to something that already happened.。
We know what happened, we have a confidence of it,。
of the time that Jesus entered the world。
to live a perfectly righteous life that we never could.。
To suffer and die a painful, humiliating death。
that we never would.。
To bear the wrath of God that we deserved.。
To defeat sin, to defeat Satan.。
And we know that not only was he born in this world。
of the Virgin Mary, not only did he suffer。
and die under Pontius Pilate,。
not only was he buried dead for three days。
after three days, he rose again to life.。
And so we can say confidently, as Job said,。
I know my Redeemer lives.。
Not only is this a present reality that we look back to,。
that we commemorate yearly,。
we also have an even greater future hope that we hold onto.。
The second advent, the second coming of Jesus Christ。
into the world, the Messiah who will once and for all。
defeat the serpent.。
And when he comes back, he will raise all his believers。
who have fallen, he will raise us and give us a new body,。
uncorrupted by sin, new minds, unstained by evil.。
He will put the enemy under his feet。
and then put an end to sin and death and pain for all time.。
And he will give us eternity with God in a new heavens,。
new earth, a new place of perfection.。
And this is our joy, this is our peace, this is our hope.。
This is our solution to the problem of sin, shame and guilt,。
loneliness, hopelessness, depression, sickness,。
death, frustration, trouble, trial, tribulation.。
Jesus Christ is our hope.。
So during this Christmas season, we should be encouraged,。
encouraged by this hope of who he is, what he has done。
and what he will ultimately accomplish.。
Even in the midst of difficulties and troubles,。
we have a hope, we have something to hold onto。
that will keep us going.。
And therefore we should be encouraged。
and we should encourage one another.。
Look to a brother or sister,。
if you see someone around you, reach out.。
If they're struggling, so many of us are,。
offer them that same hope, remind them,。
encourage them with this hope.。
It's not just a hope that we have, we share with one another.。
There's a passage I wanna, I'll just mention it,。
I won't read it, but Ephesians chapter two, verse 12,。
Paul is reminding the brothers and sisters in Ephesus。
of the time before they were in Christ,。
when they were alienated from the household of God,。
they were strangers and in the world they had no hope.。
They were without God.。
And there's people like that today.。
And we once were like that with no hope in the world,。
with no ultimate solution or answer to all the troubles。
and pains of this world.。
But in Christ, we have that hope.。
And it's not just enough for us to hold onto the hope。
or to share it with our brothers and sisters,。
but we have to reach out to those in the world。
who are lost, stumbling in darkness, who don't have hope.。
Share that message of hope with them.。
I think Christmas time is a perfect time。
because it's already on everyone's mind.。
There's gonna be family meals,。
you might be sitting next to somebody in your own family。
who is lost and without hope.。
Share that hope with them, a coworker, a friend,。
a stranger on the bus or the train or whatever,。
share that hope with them.。
It's the perfect time.。
We have the hope that the world needs.。
So as we approach our celebration of Christmas,。
of the advent of Messiah, Emmanuel, God with us,。
who as we heard earlier is the wonderful counselor,。
almighty God, everlasting father and prince of peace,。
the seed of the woman and the savior of mankind,。
let us draw close to him, hold onto him, find hope in him,。
and be as willing and as eager to share that hope。
with someone else.。
And so my prayer for all of us, for you guys,。
is the same as Paul's prayer for the Romans,。
when he says, "May the God of hope fill you。
"with all joy and peace in believing,。
"so that by the power of the Holy Spirit,。
"you may abound in hope."。
Let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, Lord God almighty, I thank you, Lord.。
We love you, we praise your precious and holy name.。
We thank you that even in the midst of a dark,。
sin-stained world full of evil and trouble and suffering,。
you have given forth a light in the midst of darkness,。
a light that we look to, a light that we have,。
that we hold onto, and God, I thank you for this light.。
I thank you for your love that we see in Jesus Christ.。
Help us, God, to be encouraged by this hope.。
Help us to be strengthened and matured in our faith。
by this hope, and to be so filled with love。
for you and others that we take this hope to the world,。
who needs it more than anything, God.。
So that is my prayer today, that we would all be,。
not just hearers of your word, but doers who act,。
who take this message and apply it to our lives, God.。
Help us in this, I pray, for the glory。
and in the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ, amen.。
