- Well, good morning.。
It's fantastic to be here and enjoying worshiping。
with you all.。
Thank you to the worship team for leading us。
in worship this morning.。
I'm excited to be here.。
I love being at UV.。
I love Christmas time.。
This is a really fun time of the year.。
And to begin with, I'm gonna ask you。
to use your imagination for just a moment。
and imagine one of the announcements that we just heard,。
the Christmas dinner, the UV Christmas dinner.。
It's been a few years since I've been to one,。
but I used to be at the UV Christmas dinner every year.。
And so just imagine that in your mind,。
or if you haven't been to one,。
you can imagine another feast that you've been at.。
Think about all that food that is there。
just spread out on the mini tables,。
and it's so amazing and so good.。
One of the problems that I have。
when I get to a feast like that。
is there's so much good stuff and I wanna eat all of it,。
but I know that I physically cannot,。
so I have to kind of choose what I'm gonna eat, right?。
And there's so many options, so many choices.。
And the reality is we all have favorites.。
We all have kind of our go-tos,。
especially at a big feast like that,。
the things that we want.。
And so sometimes, at least what I do,。
is I go to the things I know I really enjoy,。
to my favorites.。
And even though there's other really good stuff,。
I never actually get to it.。
I never try some of those other things。
just because I always end up eating my old favorites。
and I can't eat it all.。
And so there's something off to the side。
that I forget about.。
And sometimes that happens to us。
with the themes and the stories of Christmas and Advent.。
It's literally like a feast.。
There's so much to think about。
in terms of theologically and spiritually。
in terms of Advent and Christmas.。
And there's so many beautiful themes here。
of Jesus coming to earth.。
We have the marvel of the miraculous virgin birth,。
supernaturally conceived by the Holy Spirit.。
We think about the miracle, the incarnation,。
that the word was made flesh,。
God was made human, Emmanuel, God with us.。
That's one of my favorite themes, such a powerful theme.。
We think about the unveiling of Jesus as Savior。
and the verse that we heard earlier from the worship team。
where the angel spoke and said,。
"This is good news for the whole world."。
All of those themes are so beautiful。
and they're the heart of the gospel.。
And so we should enjoy them,。
just like our favorite foods at the feast.。
We should go to those places every year。
and be encouraged and blessed by them.。
But we can't forget about some of the other themes.。
And that's what we're gonna talk about today,。
a theme that is here in the story。
that maybe sometimes we just forget about。
because some of the other themes are so thrilling to us.。
And that is that Jesus came as king.。
That when Jesus came to the earth,。
the king was born, the king of the kingdom.。
And what that means for us,。
because the incarnation and the nativity story is beautiful,。
but it didn't just stop there.。
It went on, obviously, to the cross.。
But during the ministry of Jesus,。
he talked about the kingdom of God a lot.。
He talked about the kingdom that was and is and is coming.。
And Jesus gave us this theme.。
So that's what we're gonna consider this morning.。
We're gonna look at it in Matthew chapter two,。
because interestingly enough,。
even though there's a lot of people in the Christmas story。
who didn't say anything about the king,。
didn't seem to get that,。
this one group of people did.。
These people from a whole 'nother land,。
these Gentiles from another land, they were not Jewish,。
but they understood that the coming of Jesus。
was the coming of a king.。
And they traveled all this way to come see him。
as the wise men or the magi.。
So we're gonna look at the verse 12 verses。
of Matthew chapter two.。
It says, "Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea。
"in the days of Herod the king,。
"behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem,。
"saying, 'Where is he who has been born king of the Jews?。
"'For we saw his star in the east。
"'and have come to worship him.'。
"When Herod the king heard this,。
"he was troubled and all Jerusalem with him.。
"And assembling all the chief priests。
"and scribes of the people,。
"he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born.。
"They told him, 'In Bethlehem of Judea,。
"'for so it is written by the prophet,。
"'and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah,。
"'are by no means least among the rulers of Judah.。
"'For from you shall come a ruler。
"'who will shepherd my people Israel.'。
"Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly。
"and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared.。
"And he sent them to Bethlehem,。
"saying, 'Go and search diligently for the child.。
"'And when you have found him,。
"'bring me word that I too may come and worship him.'。
"After listening to the king, they went on their way.。
"And behold, the star that they had seen when it rose。
"went before them until it came to rest。
"over the place where the child was.。
"When they saw the star,。
"they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.。
"And going into the house,。
"they saw the child with Mary's mother.。
"And they fell down and worshiped him.。
"Then opening their treasures,。
"they offered him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.。
"And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod,。
"they departed to their own country by another way."。
Well, these guys, this is an amazing part。
of the Christmas story and supernatural and miraculous,。
like so many other parts of the Christmas story.。
And there's a lot of stuff we could talk about here.。
We could talk about the star.。
That's one of my favorite parts。
of the story of the wise men.。
We could talk about just them.。
They're very interesting。
'cause there's so little information about them.。
Obviously, in tradition,。
people assume there was three of them,。
but that's not told to us in the scripture.。
It's just the three gifts.。
So people assume there was three people.。
But there probably actually were more.。
They probably would have traveled in a much larger group.。
And even if there were just three,。
they would have had a lot of servants with them.。
So this was not just a couple of people.。
This was a large group of people,。
which is one of the reasons that it says in verse three,。
"When Herod the king heard this,。
"he was troubled in all Jerusalem with them."。
Whatever was going on was big enough。
that throughout the city of Jerusalem,。
people were taking notice.。
So this was a large group of people that came.。
But think about the journey that they went on.。
These are not Jewish people.。
We don't know exactly where they're from.。
They're from the east,。
but probably from the region of Persia,。
which there was a large Jewish community in Persia。
that had been there since the time of the exile.。
And so that's probably how these men had been exposed。
to the scripture and to the prophecies.。
But they traveled an enormous distance at enormous cost,。
gave up months of their life to pursue something。
that they couldn't see,。
that they didn't really know what they were pursuing after.。
And they were doing it on the basis。
of their faith and belief。
in the prophecies of the Hebrew scripture.。
And so these are actually pretty extraordinary individuals。
in an extraordinary part of the story.。
And one of the things that's really interesting。
is that here they come into Jerusalem。
with all these people who are Jewish,。
who know the scriptures,。
who have been anticipating the Messiah,。
and yet they're not getting it.。
They're not seeing that the king is being born。
and that this is happening right now.。
And the guys who do get it are these people。
from a distant land。
that God has supernaturally drawn and brought.。
And one of the things that lets us know。
when we think about the king,。
Jesus as the king and the kingdom that he came to bring,。
is that if we're gonna see the king。
and know what's happening,。
we've got to believe in the kingdom.。
That was one of the real differences。
between the wise men, the Magi,。
and the rest, Herod and the rest of the people。
who just didn't know what was going on.。
The Magi obviously had been drawn by the spirit of God.。
They didn't just come up with these things on their own.。
God drew them through the scriptures。
and drew them towards God's truth,。
and they believed it by faith.。
They had to have enormous faith to begin this journey。
and to continue on this journey.。
When you think about how long their journey was,。
they had to start at some point,。
had to have a lot of faith just to start,。
but then they traveled through the desert。
and traveled and traveled and traveled,。
and they had a lot of faith to keep going, to continue,。
to not say, okay, this was a fun camping trip,。
we enjoyed it for a while, but it's time to go back。
because it's not making sense to me anymore.。
Things are getting tough, things are getting challenging.。
These men believed in the kingdom.。
They believed that it was real.。
They believed that they were going to see,。
as they said in verse two,。
where is he who's been born king of the Jews?。
They believed that this king was being born.。
That's why they were traveling.。
And if they didn't, they wouldn't have made this journey.。
But the other people who didn't see it, who didn't get it,。
didn't believe in this kingdom.。
They thought the kingdom of the Jews was Herod.。
They thought the king of the Jews was right in front of them.。
Herod certainly thought that.。
They didn't see the kingdom that God was beginning,。
and so they didn't have any idea。
that the king was being born.。
They didn't believe it, they didn't see it.。
Now, that's not surprising.。
Jesus, in John 18, 36, he's talking to Pilate.。
This is at the very end of his life.。
Jesus answered, "My kingdom is not of this world.。
"If my kingdom were of this world,。
"my servants would have been fighting,。
"that I might not be delivered, O, to the Jews,。
"but my kingdom is not from this world."。
So it's not surprising that a lot of people missed it。
because Jesus was coming to set up a spiritual kingdom,。
not a physical kingdom.。
But that's something that we need to understand.。
That's a challenge for us, too.。
Because the kingdom of God is not a physical place,。
it's not a country on the map,。
we can miss out on how significant it is,。
and the world around us certainly doesn't see it,。
certainly often doesn't believe in it.。
The kingdom of God is a kingdom that has come,。
and that is coming, and that will come.。
It's the rule and reign of God,。
and it's existed since before the world began,。
and Jesus made it real in every way when he came to Earth。
and perfectly lived out the values of the kingdom of God,。
and by his life and death, opened the way for us。
to have relationship with God.。
The kingdom has come in that sense,。
but it is coming because it is not yet。
fully manifested here on Earth.。
It is partially manifested in us.。
Since Jesus came and died and started this new group。
of people, this new kingdom that we call the church,。
as we live under the rule and reign of God in our lives,。
and we live out the values of the kingdom,。
the love, the joy, the peace that God has called us to,。
we manifest the kingdom of God, right?。
We manifest the rule and reign of God in our lives,。
but there's a whole lot of people on our world。
who are not living under the rule and reign of God,。
and so the kingdom of God is not fully manifest,。
and that's why we continue to have a lot of problems,。
a lot of brokenness, a lot of injustice and war。
and all these terrible things,。
because the kingdom of God is not fully manifest,。
so even though it has come in Christ, it is still coming.。
It is not fully manifest yet.。
It will be fully manifest one day in heaven,。
and we know what the scripture says。
in Revelation chapter 21, these verses that say,。
in verse four, "He will wipe away every tear。
"from their eyes, and death shall be no more.。
"Neither shall there be mourning nor crying。
"nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.。
"And he who was seated on the throne said,。
"Behold, I am making all things new."。
The kingdom will be fully manifested in the future,。
and every brokenness will be healed,。
and there will be no more tears,。
and there will be no more death or sin or injustice,。
but we're not there yet, so the kingdom has come.。
It is coming right now through us,。
and it's coming in the future in heaven,。
but because it's not a physical kingdom,。
to believe in it requires faith,。
just like the wise men had to really believe。
that at the end of their journey,。
they were gonna find this king,。
otherwise they would have never stayed on the journey.。
We have to believe by faith that God's kingdom is real,。
and we have to believe that what God has said。
in his word is true, that God did lovingly create us。
in his image, that we have fallen away because of our sin,。
that we need a redeemer and a savior,。
that God in his love sent Jesus to be that savior.。
We have to believe those things by faith.。
If we don't, we're not gonna see the kingdom.。
We're gonna miss it.。
We're gonna miss what's happening right in front of us,。
just like Herod and all the other people.。
It was happening right in front of them,。
and they totally missed it,。
because they weren't looking with eyes of faith。
to see what God was doing,。
and so we have to look with eyes of faith and say,。
yeah, we believe what God is saying.。
There is a kingdom here.。
It's a spiritual reality that's bigger。
than anything in our physical reality,。
but it's not visibly manifested right in front of us,。
but we believe it by faith,。
and because we believe it by faith, we can know the king.。
That's the next thing that we see here,。
is that if we want to know the king,。
then we have to surrender to his reign.。
It's one thing to believe in the kingdom and to say,。
okay, I believe that it's real,。
but it's a whole 'nother matter to say,。
not only do I believe the kingdom is real,。
but the king is my king,。
and I'm gonna surrender to the reign of this king in my life,。
and if we think about what it means。
to be a follower of Jesus,。
that's what it means to follow after him.。
That's what it means to be a Christian.。
To come into the kingdom is what happens by grace。
through faith, where we acknowledge and say,。
I know I've sinned, I need a savior,。
and we trust in Christ to be our savior.。
That's how we come into the kingdom,。
but to live day by day as a follower of Jesus,。
we have to consistently, moment by moment,。
live out this process of surrender and saying,。
God, you're the king of my life,。
and I wanna live under your rule and reign,。
and that means I'm gonna live according to your values。
and your ideas, not my own or not anyone else's,。
and if we're gonna know the king, that's what we have to do.。
Now, that makes us uncomfortable, right?。
Even thinking about living under someone's reign。
makes us uncomfortable.。
There's a lot of reasons for that.。
Part of that is cultural, 'cause we live in America。
where we're very uncomfortable with monarchs, right?。
And there's nothing wrong with that.。
We're uncomfortable with monarchs for a good reason, right?。
Because we're very familiar with tyrannical forms of rule,。
and we're very uncomfortable with that,。
but this is a different type of kingdom.。
The kingdom of God is a perfect reign。
from a perfect kingdom with a perfect king.。
There's no tyranny involved at all.。
In Matthew 20, Jesus speaks about the type of leadership。
that he gives.。
He's talking to the disciples.。
He says, "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles。
"lorded over them, and their great ones。
"exercised authority over them.。
"Shall not be so among you,。
"whoever would be great among you would be your servant."。
And then he says, "Even as the Son of Man。
"came not to be served, but to serve,。
"and to give his life as a ransom for many."。
Jesus himself said he didn't come to dominate people.。
He came to serve.。
This is a different type of king.。
But just because he's a servant,。
don't think that he's not a king.。
We sang that Andrew Peterson song earlier, "Is He Worthy?"。
And that song quotes some of the scripture。
from Revelation 4 and 5.。
In Revelation 4 and 5, you have this vision.。
John has this vision of heaven and what's going on there.。
And in chapter four, he talks about the throne。
and the worship of the creator.。
I'm not gonna read it right now,。
'cause there's a lot of verses.。
But if you have time, you can look at it later.。
And he describes these amazing creatures,。
these amazing angelic creatures,。
that are worshiping God every moment of every day.。
It says they do not cease to worship God。
in verse eight of chapter four.。
And all they say is, "Holy, holy, holy。
is the Lord God Almighty,。
who was and who is and who is to come."。
And there's just this amazing scene。
of power and majesty and worship going on.。
And then in chapter five,。
it describes Christ, who's sitting on the right hand of God.。
And there's this angel in verse two。
who's proclaiming with a loud voice,。
"Who's worthy to open the book and to break the seals?"。
And it says, "No one," verse three,。
"No one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth。
was able to open the book and to look into it."。
No person, no human, no angel, no demon,。
no force, no power, anyone in the entire universe。
has the power to open this book.。
And John begins to weep in verse four,。
because no one can open the book.。
And one of the elders says to him, verse five,。
"Stop weeping.。
Behold, the lion, this is from the tribe of Judah,。
the root of David, has overcome,。
so as to open the book and its seven seals."。
And then we go on in the chapter,。
and the book is opened, and in verse 11,。
it says, "And I looked and I heard the voice。
of many angels around the throne,。
and the living creatures and the elders,。
and the number of them was myriads and myriads。
and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice,。
"Worthy is the lamb that was slain。
to receive power and riches and wisdom。
and might and honor and glory and blessing."。
Every being, every power in heaven。
begins to praise Jesus, because of his worthiness,。
the worthiness of his sacrifice, the lamb who was slain.。
And then verse 13, "And every created thing,。
which is in heaven and on the earth。
and under the earth and on the sea,。
and all things in them, I heard saying to him。
who sits on the throne unto the lamb,。
be blessing and honor and glory and dominion。
forever and ever."。
Everything else in creation joins this song of worship.。
First you have all of the heavenly beings。
and the heavenly powers praising Jesus,。
and then you have everyone on earth and every creature。
and everything on earth begins to join this song of worship.。
Verse 14, "And the four living creatures kept saying,。
"Amen, and the elders fell down and worshiped."。
Every thing in the universe worships the king.。
So yes, Jesus is a servant.。
He loves us, he cares for us,。
but don't think that he's not a king, because he is.。
Scripture makes that so clear.。
And the world tempts us to choose to surrender。
to other things and tries to get us to serve。
other imposter kings, other false kings.。
And the world lies to us, the world says,。
"Well, the choice is between either serving God。
"and obedience to God and freedom."。
It gets old to serve God, it gets old to be a part of church,。
there's stuff that you're supposed to try to live right,。
and that's not fun.。
Be free and come over here and do whatever you want, right?。
That's the false choice that the world gives us.。
Well, that choice is a lie.。
It's a lie because there's no freedom from。
without a freedom to.。
And it's not a choice between serving God and being free.。
It's a choice between serving God。
and serving some other imposter king, that's the choice.。
Are you gonna serve the true king,。
who by the way as we just read is a loving and good king,。
who will lead you into, in a loving and good way,。
into abundant life, or are you gonna serve。
some imposter king?。
Are you gonna serve self, or serve materialism,。
or serve power, or money, or achievement,。
or the influence of other people?。
You're gonna serve somebody, right?。
Bob Dylan wrote a song about it.。
It's actually a pretty good song if you've never heard it,。
you can listen to it sometime,。
called "Gotta Serve Somebody,"。
and that's the point of the song,。
is saying listen, you're either gonna serve God。
or the devil, but it doesn't matter who you are,。
you can't get around it.。
You're gonna serve somebody in the end.。
And it's true.。
That's the choice.。
It's not between surrender to the reign of the king。
and freedom.。
It's between surrender to the reign of the king。
and serving somebody else, or someone else.。
And what we will find is that every one。
of those imposter kings, no matter what it is,。
will end up being a tyrannical ruler in our lives,。
and will harm us and ultimately destroy us.。
The only good king is King Jesus.。
He's the only one.。
And the New Testament talks about the kingdoms,。
it uses this metaphor of the kingdom of darkness。
and the kingdom of light.。
Colossians 1, 12 to 14 says this,。
"Give me thanks to the Father who has qualified you。
"to share in the inheritance of the saints in light.。
"He has delivered us from the domain of darkness。
"and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son,。
"in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins."。
And that's the king and the kingdom that we wanna be in.。
The kingdom of light, the kingdom of his Son.。
Now this passage doesn't tell us。
that the wise men made this surrender.。
We know they believed in the kingdom enough。
to come see the king.。
We don't know necessarily if they, by faith,。
trusted in Jesus.。
Perhaps they did.。
I think you could make that argument, certainly.。
We don't know for sure.。
They certainly were sensitive to God and obedient to God.。
But for us, obviously salvation is a one-time event.。
We don't have to do that over again.。
We come and we put our trust in Christ.。
That happens once.。
But the surrender to the king is a moment-by-moment process.。
That's not a one-time event.。
We don't say, "Okay, Jesus, I wanna follow you.。
"I'm surrendering to your reign.。
"I'm done.。
"I'm never gonna be tempted to walk out。
"out of bounds ever again."。
No, it's a moment-by-moment process of saying,。
"God, I need to surrender to you in this area of my life.。
"I'm tempted to follow some other imposter king.。
"Maybe it's me.。
"Maybe it's something else, but I've gotta surrender to you."。
We've gotta constantly be checking where our allegiance is.。
And it's a repeated surrender.。
And if we live under the reign of the king,。
then we experience the blessings of the kingdom.。
There's so many things that we could talk about,。
and the most significant ones are the forgiveness of sins,。
the transformed life that comes through Jesus,。
the eternal life that's promised.。
But even if you think about the advent themes。
that we often talk about during advent,。
the candles that represent hope, peace, joy, and love,。
those are things that come to us。
as we live under the reign of the king.。
We have hope because the kingdom has come,。
and it is coming.。
We have peace because the king who loves us。
is in perfect control of our world, and we are his.。
That gives us peace.。
We have joy because every need is met。
in our relationship to the king.。
We have love because we're freed。
from the transactional nature of broken relationships。
that we experience in this world,。
and we're free to truly love the king and others。
without fear.。
We can experience true love.。
Now, the world desperately needs the blessings。
of the kingdom.。
We want 'em as individuals,。
but the world desperately needs that, right?。
We look at our world, and we see war,。
we see suffering, we see injustice,。
we see all these terrible things,。
and sometimes our heart cries out,。
and we say, "God, why is this happening?。
"How long?。
"When are you going to change things?。
"If only there was some way。
"that we could be changed as human beings.。
"If only we could be transformed to be a lot less selfish。
"and stop hating each other and fighting each other.。
"If only there was a way for this to happen."。
And God says, "Yeah, I've made a way,。
"but if you wanna experience the blessings of the kingdom,。
"you gotta surrender to the reign of the king."。
And we need to understand that.。
We desire the blessings of the kingdom.。
We crave them.。
We chase after them.。
But we all wanna find them。
by building our own tower of Babel to heaven。
instead of just going and surrendering to the king。
who is gonna offer those blessings to us.。
So as we close out, I just wanna be practical for us.。
How do we continue in this process。
of surrender to the reign of the king?。
If it's a process, moments by moment,。
we say, "Okay, well, if I'm a follower of Jesus,。
"I wanna do that."。
What does that look like in our lives?。
How do we do that?。
In the scripture, in the Old Testament and the New Testament,。
there's this metaphor that's used so much。
about the path or the way。
that describes the lifestyle of following Jesus.。
And the early Christians actually were called。
followers of the way.。
And so that metaphor is really strong in our faith.。
I think that's a good illustration for us。
to think about following Jesus kind of as a map,。
as a pathway, right?。
And scripture gives us turn-by-turn directions.。
Like if you think about GPS or your Maps app,。
it tells you how to get somewhere,。
it gives you turn-by-turn directions, right?。
Scripture gives us all kinds of turn-by-turn directions。
about how we're to relate to God,。
how we relate to one another,。
how we're to live our lives。
in all these different areas of our lives, right?。
And God's given us the Holy Spirit to speak to us。
about staying on course。
and staying in fellowship with Him,。
just like the Map app talks to you, right,。
when you miss a turn。
and tells you that you missed the turn, right?。
The problem is a lot of times we don't,。
in the illustration that we're using here,。
we don't consult the Map app。
and we don't listen when it tells us。
we've made a wrong turn.。
We just keep doing our own thing, right?。
And that's what it means for us。
to moment-by-moment surrender to the King,。
to continue to soak ourselves in Scripture。
and go back to what God has said and say,。
"God, am I living under your rule and reign,。
"or am I following some other alternate map。
"that's provided by me or by my friends。
"or the world around me or culture or some celebrity?。
"Am I following another map, or am I following your map?"。
And we listen to the Holy Spirit,。
and the Holy Spirit is good,。
and He lets us know when we're out of fellowship。
and we feel spiritually distant from God。
or we don't wanna be in church, we don't wanna worship.。
God lets us know.。
But we have to listen to that。
and not be like I am sometimes when I miss my turn。
and then I drive 10 more miles, right?。
Sometimes in life, I get out of fellowship with God。
and six months later, everything's unhealthy,。
and I finally figure out, oh yeah, something's wrong.。
And God's like, "Yeah, I've been trying to let you know。
"for the last six months.。
"You made a wrong turn back there, way back there."。
Right?。
And so that's how we surrender。
to the reign of the King moment by moment.。
We keep going back to Scripture and saying,。
"God, am I aligning with what your map is for my life?"。
We listen to the Holy Spirit.。
"God, can you communicate to me in my heart。
"and let me know when I'm making a wrong turn。
"and get me back on course?"。
And then we surrender to it, we obey it.。
We say, "God, you know what?。
"I don't really like what I'm reading right now.。
"I don't really like what the Holy Spirit's telling me.。
"I don't want to be unselfish.。
"I don't want to care about someone else.。
"I wanna make this about me,。
"but I'm gonna surrender to it because you're the King。
"and I wanna live under your rule and your reign."。
Let's pray.。
God, we just thank you that you came as Savior.。
You came to rescue us, to redeem us.。
But we also thank you that you came as King.。
Help us to not just receive you as Savior。
and rejoice in the forgiveness of our sins and stop there.。
Help us to go on to acknowledge that you're the Lord,。
you're the King, you're the ruler,。
and help us to choose to live under the rule。
and reign of your kingdom,。
to manifest the values of your kingdom in our lives。
to those around us, God.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
