Good morning family and welcome. I'm glad and excited that we get to open God's。
Word together again this morning. I want to remind you as always that we'd love。
to hear from you. We'd love for you to connect with us. You can reach out, send。
us an email at info@urbanvoicechurch.com. If there's any way that we can pray for。
you and encourage you, we'd love to know that. Or if you just have comments or。
questions, we'd love to hear those as well. So please reach out to us. We'd love。
to hear from you. This morning we're going to be looking at Matthew chapter。
7 verses 13 and 14. These are really significant verses in the Sermon on the。
Mount and really significant verses in our lives and in our faith and our。
journey as followers of Jesus. And they're important in understanding the。
application of the values of the kingdom to our lives. So I want us to examine。
these closely today and to really see what God has to say to us this morning.。
Let's read these together. Matthew chapter 7 verses 13 and 14. "Enter by the。
narrow gate, for the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction.。
And those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow and the way is hard。
that leads to life. And those who find it are few." Now what is Jesus saying here?。
What's going on in this passage? The metaphor is pretty obvious here. He's。
talking about two paths that are very different. One that is narrow and。
challenging. Another one that is broad and wide and easy. And Jesus is pointing。
us to an important truth about what it means to be a follower of Jesus, to be a。
subject of the kingdom, and to live out the values of the kingdom. At this point。
in the Sermon on the Mount, this is towards the end, Jesus is beginning to。
kind of wrap up the sermon and he's giving us some application. So this。
section, these verses, are really speaking to what it looks like for us to begin to。
live out the values of the kingdom that he's already been speaking about for the。
last almost three chapters of the book of Matthew here. And Jesus is giving us a。
description in this metaphor and it's almost a warning of what it looks like。
to live out the values of the kingdom in our world. That it's not going to be easy,。
it's not going to be simple, it's not even always going to feel great. And Jesus is。
telling us that. And I think it's important to understand that Jesus is。
telling us that up front because Jesus was never trying to talk us into doing。
something. Jesus was never trying to pull a bait-and-switch. The gospel has always。
been up front about the commitment that is involved. And sometimes us, Christians,。
believers, followers of Jesus in the church, when we share the gospel, we。
kind of want to hide that. We kind of want to obscure that and make it seem。
really easy to people and say, "Hey, it's going to be great. You'll get everything。
you ever want." And that is true. The rewards of the gospel are indescribable.。
They truly are. But that doesn't mean that it's easy. There is very real。
commitment involved and there's often suffering involved. And that's what Jesus。
is telling us here. Jesus is being very honest, very direct, very up front with us。
about what it means to live out the values of the kingdom in our broken。
world. And that it's not going to be easy. It's not going to be simple. And Jesus is。
telling us some hard truths here. And I love that Jesus does that. There's so。
many beautiful things that Jesus tells us. So many beautiful things in the。
Gospels. So many beautiful things right here in the Sermon on the Mount that。
Jesus tells us and describes for us. But Jesus doesn't just tell us the good。
stuff. He also tells us the challenging things. Jesus also says to us what we。
need to hear but don't want to hear. Jesus tells us the hard truths and I。
love that. And that's what he's doing in these verses. You know God's Word is。
oftentimes encouraging and comforting to us. But it's also oftentimes challenging。
to us. Sometimes it's both at once. And this is one of those passages that is。
challenging. There is comfort and encouragement in it as well. We'll see。
that today. But it's challenging. It is really challenging. So in these verses I。
think there's some important things for us to understand that Jesus is。
communicating. And first of all I want us to consider the fact that Jesus is。
telling us the narrow way is not easy. That's what Jesus is saying. The narrow。
way is not an easy way. You know part of the reason the narrow way is not。
easy is that it's in opposition to our natural desires and selfishness. Following。
Jesus, living out the values of the kingdom, is really in opposition to the。
things that we naturally want to do. We've been talking about this for so。
long now as we study these values of the kingdom. But living a life of humility, of。
poverty of spirit, that's in opposition to our natural desires which are。
towards pride and self inflation and self promotion. Things like that. Being。
humble and living out poverty of spirit is in opposition to our selfish desires.。
So many of the values of the kingdom really oppose our natural desires and。
for that reason it is not easy to walk in the narrow way. It is not easy to live。
out the values of the kingdom. And the reality is that this verse communicates。
that there are times when when the narrow way feels closed in. It feels。
tight. It feels difficult to maneuver through. In verse 13 this word for narrow。
the Greek word gives us this this idea of narrow or straight. And narrow or。
straight because there are obstacles on the sides. It's kind of you can think of。
like a narrow corridor through a stone passageway in a castle or something like。
that. Or you can think of maybe walking on a trail. I don't know if you've ever。
hiked a trail like this but I've hiked on some trails where you're walking。
through cliffs kind of and you're on a trail where it's just straight wall on。
this side and straight wall up on that side. It's very narrow and very closed in.。
And that's part of what the Greek word in verse 13 is communicating. That there。
are times when it's gonna feel tight. It's gonna feel difficult to navigate.。
It's gonna feel difficult to go on through because it's not necessarily。
easy. And Jesus is telling us that. He's being up front with us about that. And。
this concept of the narrow way also communicates the fact that there is。
suffering involved. In verse 14 where it says for the gate is narrow. That's。
actually a completely different Greek word from the word in verse 13. And the。
word in verse 14 is a word that communicates suffering. It's a word that。
is translated in other parts of the New Testament as affliction or as trouble or。
as suffering tribulation. And so it's saying that this gate is not just。
narrow. It's difficult. That there's suffering involved. This path is。
challenging to travel. It's hard to travel at times. Just like verse 14 says。
the way is hard. It's not easy. And Jesus is being up front with us and telling us。
that. That if we are going to commit to live out the values of the kingdom. If。
we're gonna commit to really being a follower of Jesus. If we're gonna commit。
to really being serious about obeying him in our life. Then it's not always。
gonna be easy. It's gonna be in opposition to our own natural desires.。
And there are times when it's gonna feel tight and closed in. And we're gonna。
feel like it's hard to push on through. But there's also times when it's gonna。
involve suffering. And when it's not gonna feel good in the moment. And when。
it's going to hurt. And it's going to involve affliction. That word in。
verse 14. The Greek word as also carries this idea of being pressed. Just like。
grapes were pressed to extract the grape juice. It's a word that gives us。
that word picture of being pressed. So that something is gonna be extracted.。
And sometimes that's what following Jesus means. God lets us go through。
difficulty and challenges and affliction. So that he can extract impurities and。
things that are not healthy from our life. And fill us with goodness. So。
that he can refine us. And there is this concept of suffering that's carried in。
these words and in these verses. Another thing we see in these verses is that。
this is a narrow gate and a narrow way. And that's important for us to。
understand. Because sometimes we might think of following Jesus as like a。
funnel kind of. Or maybe as an uphill climb. And we might think of it as it's。
wide open and easy in the beginning. And everything's great. And then as we get to。
more advanced levels it gets a little bit tougher. Or that's when it gets。
challenging. And it is an uphill climb. The journey of faith. Of following Jesus.。
So that's not necessarily a bad metaphor. But we need to understand that it's。
narrow and straight from beginning to end. And Jesus is letting us know that in。
this verse. That there's only one way to heaven. Jesus himself said that he is the。
only way to the Father. He's the way the truth and the life. It's narrow in the。
beginning. It's narrow to get in. It's only by God's grace and by faith in。
Jesus that we can come into salvation. It's a narrow way. It's pretty。
exclusive to get in that narrow gate. But then as we travel on it, it's still。
narrow. It's not something that as we grow more advanced then maybe we'll。
have an experience of challenge or affliction or trouble. No. God wants to。
grow us from the very beginning. And he's gonna allow adversity in our lives to。
stretch us and to grow us from the very beginning. And so we may say, "Well I。
wasn't expecting this. I wasn't ready for this. Sure I thought maybe someday in my。
journey of following Jesus that I'd have to deal with something challenging or。
something difficult. Or God would let me face something that was was difficult.。
But I wasn't expecting this right now because I'm young or I haven't been a。
believer very long." But it's not a funnel. It's something that from the beginning。
God wants to grow us. And God wants to challenge us. And God wants to stretch us.。
And we need to understand that. And it doesn't have moments in the middle where。
we just say, "Okay I've been on the narrow way for a while so now I get to just。
take some time off and float." And that's not there. It's always going to be a。
narrow way beginning to end. Now that doesn't mean that it's not full of。
blessing and reward and joy because it is. We're gonna discuss that a little bit。
later on. So don't get the wrong idea that following Jesus is just some type。
of difficult drudgery and it's always just sad and hard. That's not the。
reality of what it means to be a follower of Jesus. But understand that。
the way is narrow and it is from beginning to end. You know it requires。
commitment. And that's why Jesus is telling us this up front. Why he's。
telling us this in the beginning is that it requires commitment for us to step。
onto the narrow way, to choose to follow him, and to stay on the narrow way. To。
continue to follow him. Jesus is speaking to people that were very familiar with。
faith, very familiar with the Old Testament, very familiar with God. But。
they weren't necessarily familiar with the values of the kingdom that he was。
giving them. And he was being honest with them up front and saying, "If you want to。
step into this life, if you want to begin to live out these values and。
follow God in the way that I'm calling you to, it requires commitment. And you've。
got to understand that." And that's just as true for us. We need to understand。
that there's a commitment required to enter the narrow gate and to walk on。
the narrow way. And that brings us to the next thing I want us to consider. And。
that is that the narrow way requires intentional pursuit. The narrow way。
requires intentional pursuit. Now this is an obvious point and it's not something。
that I need to belabor or explain a lot because it's pretty clear. But I just。
want to bring it out for us and remind us that if you are not intentionally。
staying on a narrow path, then you're off the path. I think a good illustration is。
if you think of maybe being on a small path in the forest that's not real well。
marked. I've done a lot of hiking. I love to hike with my family and we do that a。
lot. And we've hiked a lot of different types of trails. And some trails you hike。
on that are pretty wide and maybe they're even a gravel trail or they're。
partially paved. It's really easy to see where the trail is and stay on it. But。
some trails you hike that are not well traveled and they're not well marked,。
they may be a very small path. It's not very wide. Just a little footpath through。
the woods. And if there's been leaves blowing around and branches that have。
fallen and things like that, it's easy to lose the path. Sometimes trails like that。
are marked on, they have little marks of paint on the tree or something else on a。
tree to let you know where the path is. But the point is you have to be。
intentionally pursuing that path to stay on it. You have to be looking at the path。
to know where it's going and you have to even be looking at the trees and。
other things around you for markers of where that path is. And if you're not paying。
attention, if you're not being intentional, you will get off the path.。
And that's just as true in our journey of following Jesus. There are so many。
distractions from the narrow way. There are so many temptations that the devil。
puts in front of us to try to pull us off of the narrow way. There are so many。
off-ramps that the devil puts in front of us and says, "Hey, here's an easy way to。
just get off the narrow way and start traveling on the broad way." And the。
narrow way requires intentional pursuit. We have to be intentional about staying。
on it. Be paying attention. We have to be intentional about our relationship with。
God and keeping it healthy and our connection to Him and staying in His。
Word and praying and staying connected with other believers in the church and。
checking all of our beliefs against Scripture and against God's truth so。
that we don't start to believe erroneous things or things that are going to hurt。
us or hurt someone else. We've got to be intentional about all that stuff because。
if we're not intentional about staying on the path, then we're going to be off。
the path. It's just as simple as that. Another thing that's really important。
for us to understand, especially for us as younger people that live in our。
modern culture, is that the narrow way is deeply countercultural. The narrow way is。
deeply countercultural and that's reflected in these verses. Jesus says in。
verse 13, "The gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction and those。
who enter by it are many." Those words, the word for wide means that it's broad,。
it's flat, it's easy to travel on, and the word for easy means that it's。
spacious, there's lots of room, it looks really nice. And there's a lot of。
people on this path. Verse 13 is very clear about that. That means the narrow。
way is not popular. It's not a path that is going to be crowded and it's probably。
not the path that many of your friends and acquaintances and co-workers and。
classmates and the people around you are going to be on. And it's probably not the。
path that your friends and classmates and co-workers and acquaintances and。
maybe even family members, the people around you, it's probably not the path。
that they're going to encourage you to go towards. It's probably not the path。
that they're going to support you in walking in. If anything, they're probably。
going to try to pull you away from the narrow way and encourage you to walk on。
the Broadway because it seems so much easier, right? They say, "Hey, this road is。
flat and easy to travel. It doesn't have the challenges. It doesn't oppose your。
selfish desires. On the Broadway, you do whatever you want. If you feel like。
doing something, you do it. If you feel like gratifying yourself in some way,。
then you engage in that activity. It's easy. And look, there's so many people on。
the Broadway and we're having a great time and this is where you want to be.。
It's great over here. All the cool kids are here. So come here. Come to。
this way. Don't try to walk on that narrow, difficult path." That's the。
metaphor that Jesus is putting in front of us. And if we're honest, that's the。
world that we live in. Most of the people around us are not on the narrow way.。
They're on the broad path and they are calling to us, sometimes implicitly, but。
sometimes explicitly in things that they say to us. They're calling to us to leave。
the narrow way and to come walk on the broad path. The narrow way is not。
supported by our culture and by the values of our culture. The values of the。
kingdom are upside down and backwards to the values of our culture. And so our。
culture does not encourage us to live out and walk in the values of the。
kingdom. That's just the reality. If you don't believe me, let's just take a。
second and go through some of the kingdom values that we've been talking。
about. Let's just look at the Beatitudes themselves. Think about these.。
The very first one, "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of。
heaven." Think about that. If you say, "Okay, I'm ready to start a humility club at my。
school or at my job and I'm going to say, 'Hey, this club is all about poverty of。
spirit and humility. Let's sign up. Let's do this.'" How many people。
do you think are going to be excited about joining the humility club? No one.。
That's not a value of our culture. If you want to start a club to promote。
yourself, then probably a lot of people would be interested in learning about。
that. But humility is not a value of our culture. What about purity of heart? Is。
that a value of our culture? Is that a value that your friends are going to。
encourage you to walk in and to live out? No, it's not. These things that Jesus。
talks about in the Beatitudes are really upside down and backwards to what we。
live out and practice in our culture. What about being meek and gentle? Is that。
a cultural value? It's not. What about hungering and thirsting after。
righteousness? Is that a cultural value? What about being a peacemaker? In our。
modern moment of turbulence and anger and frustration and division, everywhere。
you look, it is not a cultural value to be a peacemaker. And if you try to be a。
peacemaker, some people are going to be very upset at you and very angry at you.。
Look at what's going on in our politics and in our society here in the。
United States. People make money. People fundraise. People get votes and get。
elected off of division and fear. And so if you're spreading peace, people don't。
want to see that. People in power want others to experience division and fear。
because that keeps them in power. And so if you're a peacemaker, that's not going。
to be a popular value. What about these values later on in Matthew chapter 5。
where Jesus talks about loving our enemies and turning the other cheek to。
someone who has wronged us? Are those popular values? Do you think you can get。
those off the ground with anybody in our culture? No. No one wants to hear that.。
Certainly no one wants to practice it. But people don't even want to hear that。
expressed. People oftentimes don't even want to hear forgiveness expressed in。
our culture because we are a culture that wants to take revenge and seek。
retribution anytime that we've been wronged. No one wants to hear someone say,。
"Hey, Jesus calls us to forgive." No one wants to hear that value in our。
culture. What about in Matthew chapter 6 later on where Jesus talks about。
storing up treasures in heaven? Do you think that's a value in our culture? Do you。
think that's something that people are going to be excited about and encourage。
you to live out? Is making decisions on earth with your finances that have。
eternity in mind? Is anyone going to think that's a good idea? No. People are。
going to say, "Hey, this is for you. You use this to take care of you. You。
don't use this to store up treasures in heaven. That doesn't make any sense."。
What about in Matthew chapter 5 when Jesus talks about anger and lust and he。
says, "Hey, you should not even entertain these thoughts in your mind because。
that's sinning." What if you try to live those out? Think about that. Young people。
think about that. If you have a conversation with your friend and you。
explain to them, "Hey, I'm trying to even avoid sexual sin in my mind, to not even。
have thoughts of lust in my mind because I feel like that's sinful. And so because。
of that I want to avoid pornography or because of that I'm really careful about。
the situations I put myself in." That's something that people will make fun of。
you for. I've had those conversations. I've been made fun of that. If you say,。
"Hey, I want my sexuality to honor God and because of that I'm only going to have。
certain types of relationships or I'm going to wait until I'm married to。
engage in sexual activity." That's something that people will mock you for.。
That is not a cultural value and we need to understand that. If we are serious。
about living out the values of the kingdom, the culture around us does not。
share those values and is not going to support them and it's not going to。
encourage them and a lot of times will oppose them and mock them. And that's a。
part of walking on the narrow way and we need to be ready for that. The narrow way。
often leads to persecution. Jesus told us that in Matthew 5 verses 11 and 12。
when he said that we were going to experience persecution. And here he's。
expanding on that and letting us know why. Because we're walking on a way that。
doesn't make sense to people who don't know God. We're walking on a way that is。
narrow and difficult and everyone else is on the broad and easy way. Another。
thing I want us to see here in these verses is that Jesus only describes two。
paths. He says there's the narrow way and the broad way and he doesn't describe。
anything else. And that's important for us to understand as well. There is no。
middle way. Sometimes we think, "Well I can kind of keep a foot in both worlds. I。
can kind of do both. I can kind of be involved in following Jesus and。
in living out kingdom values a little bit. But I can also be involved in。
living out the values of the world around me." But there is no middle way and。
Jesus has already talked to us about that in the Beatitudes when he told us。
no one can serve two masters. So that's not really an option even though we。
want it to be an option. It's not. Jesus doesn't give us that option. He only。
talks about two paths and he's clear that only one path leads to life. One。
path leads to destruction and there's no ifs, ands, or buts about it. Jesus makes it。
clear the broad way, even though it's easy and popular and seems great, it。
leads to destruction both in this life and in eternity. And the only way that。
leads to life is the narrow way. And that's what I want us to see as we close。
this out. That there is a reward to the narrow way. Now so far the things we've。
talked about can seem discouraging and burdensome like, "Wow this sounds so tough。
and I don't know if I want to be on the narrow way because it just sounds really。
grim and it's something that I really want to live out." But we need to。
understand that there is a reward to the narrow way and it's an amazing and。
indescribable reward. Now first of all there's a reward of everlasting life.。
Jesus says that the narrow way leads to life and that word has multiple。
connotations here and so it means everlasting life. Scripture is clear。
about that. If you think about John 3 16, it says Jesus is the way to eternal life.。
John 5 24, where Jesus says that eternal life comes through believing in。
him. There's many other verses that talk about Jesus being the way to eternal。
life. But that is a part of the reward. That when our earthly life is over and。
our body dies, our soul will not die but will go into the presence of God in。
heaven and live eternally in a perfectly beautiful place with no sin, no。
injustice, no disease, no tears. All the terrible things that we experience in。
this life will be gone and we'll have eternal life in the presence of God. That。
in and of itself would be reward enough even if life was full of suffering and。
challenges to achieve that. It would be reward enough. But that's not the only。
reward. Jesus is clear that there is life in this life that is a reward here. Like。
I said, this word that the narrow way leads to life has multiple。
connotations and it refers to our life in the here and now as well. In John 10。
10, Jesus talks about that. How he came so that we could have abundant life. That。
word abundant means have life to the full and we could experience what we。
were truly created to experience. And that is a part of the reward of the。
narrow way that we get to experience and live out if we follow God and live out。
kingdom values. We experience that in this life. Life to the full. The life that。
we were created for. A life of perfect and healthy fellowship with the God who。
made us and a life of healthy fellowship with the people around us. And that's。
something significant because what truly gives meaning to life? Is it the food we。
eat? Is it the money we make? Is it the things that we go do? I think all of us。
if we examine for very long we can see that what truly gives meaning to our。
life is the relationships that we have. That's why we enjoy the food if we're。
enjoying it with with people that are important to us. That's why we enjoy the。
experiences and the concerts and the events that we go to is if we're doing。
them with people that we love. That's what makes life meaningful is those。
relationships and the narrow way living out the values of the kingdom gives us。
the opportunity to experience truly healthy relationships. Like we talked。
about last week a truly healthy relationship with God the one who made。
us as we love him first and out of that we can start to live the golden rule and。
truly love the people around us and experience truly healthy relationships。
in our marriages, in our families, in our communities, in our cities, in our world.。
So this promise of life is for the here and now as well and it also gives us。
something significant in the suffering and adversity that we face and that is a。
purpose. The reality is everyone experiences suffering and adversity in。
this world because our world is broken by sin. Even if you're not a follower of。
Jesus you're gonna go through some difficult times and if you are not a。
follower of Jesus if you're not living out the values of the kingdom then it's。
so difficult to find the meaning and the purpose in that suffering. It feels like。
there is no meaning and purpose in it. Why does this even happen? And that's。
why so many people can end up angry at God and say, "God why would you allow evil。
to be in our world? Why does this stuff happen? Why do you let any of these bad。
things take place?" But for a follower of Jesus, for someone who's living out the。
values of the kingdom, we can see that God is using that adversity and that。
suffering in our lives to grow us and to stretch us and to make us more like。
Jesus and to make us more able to love God and to love others. And so that gives。
purpose even in the challenging difficult moments of our life and that's。
a huge part of the blessing of walking in the narrow way. It's not that the。
narrow way is easy, it's challenging, but we see the meaning in the challenges. We。
see the purpose in the challenges that God brings into our life and it gives us。
that sense of shalom that we talked about last week. It's so powerful that。
God desires for us to have that sense of wholeness and that sense of。
health and prosperity and peace and justice and of permanence in our。
life because that only comes through right relationship with God and through。
seeking to live out the values of the kingdom. And I want us to see this, I。
don't want us to miss this because this is really big. We are not alone on the。
narrow way. Verses 13 and 14 tell us that there are many people on the broad。
way and sometimes when we read that and then read the words that follow we just。
assume that well I guess the narrow way means you're by yourself. It doesn't say。
that. It says those who find it are few. It doesn't say that those who find it。
are alone. And so even though there are times when the narrow way can feel。
lonely because it is countercultural and we're not encouraged to。
walk on that way by many of the people around us, we are not alone. First of all。
we have that relationship with God that strengthens us and sustains us and keeps。
us going. But secondly God through his body, through the church, through the。
the family of God as the New Testament calls us, puts all these people around us。
who love us and care for us and support us that we can fellowship with, that we。
can be encouraged by, that we can be cared for by, and that we can in turn。
care for them and encourage them and serve them and help them. We are not。
alone on the narrow way and that's encouraging to us in the times of。
challenge and it also is a part of that that abundant life. Life to the full is。
experiencing those truly healthy relationships that God gives us in in。
the family of God and the church. And then we have the opportunity to truly。
love the world around us. We talked about that last week when we were discussing。
the golden rule that it's so hard for us as humans to love and care for anyone。
else in a truly unselfish way. We always have some type of selfish motivation at。
the heart of what we do but through the work of Jesus in our heart and the power。
of the Holy Spirit in our lives we can actually be a conduit of God's love to。
others and we really can love the people around us, the people who don't know。
Jesus. We really can love and serve them in a truly unselfish and loving way and。
have life-giving relationships with people who are outside the church and。
that's a part of that life to the full. So there is great reward to walking in。
the narrow way. It is totally worth it and God calls us to it. We need to。
understand that it's not easy. We need to understand that there's commitment。
required. We need to understand that there's intentionality required that we。
have to pay attention and stay focused to stay on that path. We need to。
understand that it's countercultural and that we are not going to be encouraged。
in the narrow way by most of the people around us but we need to understand that。
it is full of reward and beauty and goodness because God loves us and he is。
full of grace and he's extending that grace to us even as he calls us to walk。
on the narrow way. Let's pray. God thank you for this truth and just for how。
clearly and directly you lay it out in this passage that you call us to walk on。
the narrow way. It's not an easy way. It requires commitment. It requires。
intentional pursuit. We have to follow after you and God it is full of。
challenges. There's a lot of difficulties in life but there is so much reward and。
so God I pray that we would not be surprised by the challenges or the。
adversity of our life. We would see what you're saying here and understand that。
that it's going to be challenging at times and we would understand the。
commitment and the intentionality that's required and we would。
dedicate ourselves to having that commitment and living that out。
intentionally and God as we do I pray that we would experience your reward in。
our lives. That we would really begin to be so saturated with the values of the。
kingdom that they're flowing out of our life in a life-giving way to others. That。
we would live out these values of the kingdom that when it's difficult, when。
we're made fun of, or when people don't understand or oppose us that it would。
not stop us from living out the values of the kingdom and God that we would。
experience your life to the full. We know we'll experience that one day in heaven but。
even now in this life that we would experience it to the full. That we would。
live in healthy relationship to you. That you would just pour your love and your。
life into us and that we would be a conduit of your love and your life to。
others. That we would be able to to have healthy and life-giving relationships。
with those around us. God in Jesus name, Amen.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
(music fades)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
