- Some weeks ago, oh, I forgot to turn it on.。
I'm sorry, yeah.。
You know, this movie is about emotions inside out,。
and quite a few weeks ago, I remember Speaker Brian Ame。
was with us, and he talks about the emotional will, right?。
Remember that?。
Yeah, how we should articulate our emotion correctly,。
and how we process our emotions, okay?。
So here's my question to you this morning.。
Is where are you gonna put yourself in the past week。
on the emotional will?。
Where are you gonna put yourself?。
Okay, so pick a color, pick a color, or pick one emotion.。
Well, you have some stronger emotion,。
so-called positive emotions, happy,。
you know, feeling strong and pump up, right?。
And then on the other side is feeling sad and depressed,。
bored, exhausted, lonely.。
And then down there, there's fear, the emotion of fear.。
And then on the upper right is feeling mad, you know,。
feeling mad about something, okay,。
or feeling mad about someone, all right?。
So take a look at the emotional will.。
Where are you gonna put yourself?。
Where are you gonna put yourself in the past week?。
All right?。
So how many of you put yourself in the fear section?。
Fear section.。
Wow, you guys are so bold, okay?。
No one's in fear, all right?。
How many of you, just take a sample,。
how many of you put yourself in the mad emotion?。
The yellow.。
Paul, you were mad, right?。
Yeah, mad about someone, probably.。
(laughs)。
Or mad about yourself, right?。
How many of you feel the sad part?。
Depressed a little bit?。
Okay, all right.。
How about on the left side, the strong side,。
the happy side?。
How many of you fall into that quarter?。
No?。
Okay, those of you who didn't vote,。
those of you who didn't vote,。
you're probably being emotional less,。
which is not good, right?。
Which is not good.。
All right, so I'm sure the past week。
probably very hectic for you.。
Whatever happened in your life journey,。
we need to understand,。
as we look at one of the Psalms today,。
we have been looking at the book of Psalms,。
using different Psalms, different songs。
in the book of Psalms to study.。
You need to understand emotion is a window.。
It's a window to your soul.。
It's a window to something inside of you.。
Now, this is very interesting。
because you look at the book of Psalms,。
there were 150 Psalms recorded,。
being collected together.。
And those Psalms are actually prayers of people to God,。
words of humans to God.。
And at the same time, we collected those Psalms,。
and those Psalms are collectively God's word to us, right?。
So 100%, they are prayers to God, right?。
From a human poet, from a human player,。
playing a song, playing a prayer to God.。
At the same time, it is God speaking to us.。
If you run out of materials for your quiet time。
or devotions, you always can go back。
to the book of Psalms, right?。
You never get tired of thinking about,。
pondering on the words of the Psalms.。
So, you look at the 150 Psalms,。
you find all this kind of colors,。
and all this kind of emotions.。
And that's why I want to ask you how you feel today.。
How are you feeling in the past week?。
Let's process your emotions, right?。
Life is hectic, right?。
You have to take care of many, many different things,。
and you have to tackle different challenges and issues.。
But it's time for you to come before the presence of God。
to process your emotions.。
How do you feel today, right?。
How do you feel today?。
And let us go to Psalm 63.。
Now, as we read through some of the verses of this Psalm,。
I want you to understand and hear。
what David is trying to say, his prayers,。
his words to God, and how did he feel.。
A Psalm of David.。
And he was in the wilderness of Judah.。
"O God, you are my God.。
"Earnestly I seek you.。
"My soul thirsts for you.。
"My body longs for you.。
"In the dry and withered land, where there is no water,。
"I have seen you in the sanctuary,。
"and beheld your power and your glory.。
"Because your love is better than life,。
"my lips will glorify you."。
The first few verses that we have just read。
are the prayers of David.。
And he made this prayer, he made this Psalm,。
he composed this Psalm, where?。
In the wilderness, right?。
In the wilderness of Judah.。
Now, if you go back to the background of the Psalm,。
you will understand wilderness is actually part。
of the landscape of Israel.。
It's part of the landscape, a default geographical setting。
of any Israelite living in the land of Canaan.。
They know where the wilderness is.。
You climb the mountain and you descend the other side,。
you will see wilderness.。
The land of Israel is very interesting.。
It's very engaging.。
Next week, I'm leading about 10 people。
going to the land of Israel.。
It's gonna be interesting.。
I want to tell you something, it's very interesting.。
When we drive from west to east,。
we drive west to east,。
you see a total different two worlds.。
All right, let me show you how.。
The land of Israel, going from left to right,。
from west to east, is actually a mountain。
climbing all the way up to almost about 2,000 feet。
above sea level, 2,500 feet.。
That's where Jerusalem is.。
Can you see that?。
Can you make it out?。
And then after Jerusalem, you continue to drive,。
and then you will continue to descend。
in terms of elevation.。
You continue to descend and you can hear it,。
you can sense it because your ears pop, right?。
Because you are descending so much。
to the lowest point on earth,。
1,400 feet below sea level.。
It's very interesting to drive from left to right。
and from west to east,。
because when you pass Jerusalem,。
there's a tunnel in Mount of Olives.。
You go through that tunnel,。
before you went through the tunnel,。
everything looks kind of green.。
After you went through the tunnel,。
you went to the right side,。
the right side of the blue line,。
where the water shadows.。
After you pass that, everything looks brown and yellow,。
because there's no grass growing。
on the other side of the,。
the right side of the watershed.。
Now, what is important is the watershed, the blue line,。
because the rain cloud is moving from left to right,。
from west to east.。
And when the rain clouds move through the land,。
especially in the rainy season, the winter season,。
about October to March,。
it will rain on the left side of the watershed.。
And then after the rain clouds go through,。
went through the watershed line,。
there's no more rain.。
So after that watershed,。
there's no more rain on the right side of the watershed.。
So let me show you two pictures.。
You'll see the difference.。
The left picture is the left side of the watershed.。
You see kind of green, right?。
Most of the time, there are greens.。
And then after you move through the,。
past the line of watershed, past Jerusalem,。
you will see everything is dry, right?。
Everything is so dry.。
It's like desert.。
That is wilderness of Judah.。
So for Israelite, for the people of God,。
in the Old Testament, they know what wilderness is.。
They climb the mountain and they will see wilderness.。
They will go into the wilderness.。
And David, as the title of the psalm says,。
he wrote the psalm in the wilderness of Judah.。
Now, because wilderness is kind of default setting。
for David and for the people of God,。
wilderness becomes a metaphor, a metaphor of life.。
It represents testing and tough times。
you have to go through in your life.。
Challenges and trials and temptations.。
And from the landscape, you see the soul scape.。
What is going on in your life, right?。
Perhaps today, you are going through some wilderness.。
Perhaps recently, life has been tough for you.。
Life has been challenging to you.。
And because of the background of the psalm,。
we understand this wilderness.。
It's unavoidable.。
There's no way you can avoid it, right?。
You lost a job, that's a time of wilderness.。
You lost someone you love, that is time of wilderness.。
You lost some of the good things in life,。
that is a time of testing, time of wilderness.。
Now, the most important question is,。
if you are going through wilderness, what do you do?。
How do you maintain and sustain yourself。
through wilderness, through the dry。
and weary season of your life?。
And here, the psalmist David said,。
"Oh God, you are my God.。
"Earnestly I seek you, my soul thirsts for you,。
"my body longs for you.。
"In a dry and weary land of wilderness, there is no water."。
What is he doing?。
You know, something is not right in his life.。
And in fact, the context tells us,。
if you continue to read Psalm 63, he was on the run.。
David was a fugitive.。
You know some stories of David。
in the book of First and Second Samuel.。
He got a lot of enemies trying to kill him,。
pursue him, and take his kingship and take his power.。
So he was on the run.。
And where are you gonna run when there is trouble?。
Where are you gonna run when you are pursued by enemies?。
You run into wilderness.。
It is a land of fugitives,。
land of escape,。
land of going through some tough time.。
Wilderness becomes a metaphor for all of us.。
And he was on the run, and he was praying the psalm。
in the wilderness where there's no water.。
It was time of testing for him.。
And of course, if you're in the wilderness,。
the first thing you want is water.。
You need water.。
When you are thirsty, you need a glass of water.。
I go to Israel quite often,。
and the most important thing you need to bring。
when we are on a day trip,。
we leave our hotel or Airbnb very early in the morning,。
and then there's a day trip for us,。
and we won't come back until probably evening,。
after sundown.。
The most important thing in our backpack。
is the bottle of water.。
You probably have to drink at least one to two liter。
of water every single day.。
Dry and wiggly land.。
The first thing you want, your body thirst for, is water.。
But David is doing something very interesting here.。
He transformed his physical experience。
into a spiritual experience.。
He take that as a spiritual transformation moment.。
It's for him to yearn for God.。
Because if you know,。
if you have gone through life for some period of time,。
whether you're going through some really tough time,。
or your lack of money, you worry,。
or you deal with a lot of negative emotions,。
you need to understand that。
in terms of the physical body,。
the water can do something to your body,。
can crunch your thirst.。
But there's emptiness in your life.。
Water cannot crunch.。
There's only one thing that can crunch the thirst,。
crunch your yearning.。
And Psalm 63 says, "It is God."。
God himself.。
Only God can fulfill and make you satisfied。
from the inside out, from your heart.。
So seek God and thirst for God.。
That is what David does in the wilderness.。
Notice what he says, "You are my God."。
My God.。
Now usually the English pronoun,。
we don't think it is important.。
But in this Psalm, verse one,。
"God, you are my God."。
God of mine.。
That personal pronoun is important.。
Because for David, God is his God.。
His personal God.。
He has a vibrant, personal, living relationship。
with God himself.。
So God for David is not someone else's God.。
It's not some other pastor's God.。
It's not some other family member's God.。
It's not some other friend's God.。
Why so often we associate with God。
and our relationship with God。
is by other associations, right?。
I have a good friend who is very good Christian,。
who is very solid Christian,。
who is very, very solid believer.。
And because of him, I kind of close to God, right?。
But it's got your God.。
It's got your personal, relatable being.。
Self-sufficient in the wilderness.。
David said, "You are my God."。
God and me is a personal relationship.。
I'm not sure where you are in your relationship with God.。
Can you really call God your God?。
Can you really call Jesus your savior,。
your Lord and your leader?。
Yours, not someone else's.。
Personal relationship in the wilderness.。
He remembers his relationship with God.。
And that's the thing, that helps him.。
I want to challenge you.。
You probably heard of Jesus.。
You probably accept the gospel,。
you know, here and there for some time.。
But can you really pray 63 verse one?。
"Oh God, you are my God.。
"And Jesus, you are mine."。
Right?。
And secondly, what does he do?。
He recalls his past experience with God.。
He continues his prayer.。
He says, "I have seen you in the sanctuary,。
"in the temple, in the temple of Jerusalem."。
David used to be a worshiper, regularly, weekly,。
on Shabbat, on Sabbath, Sunday.。
He goes to the temple, he goes to the court,。
worshiping God with the community, right?。
He remembered that in the wilderness.。
I really appreciate the comment made previously。
about the need for community.。
Need for a friend, right?。
You know, in my circle, recently there was a big news。
about some people being lured。
into a human trafficking trap.。
You know, in my circle, there's some people from Hong Kong.。
They are being tempted by some human trafficker。
to go to Cambodia or Thailand。
to make some big money, right?。
And they're being tempted。
because there's so lack of money, right?。
They wanna make some quick money, quick income,。
and that's why they got themselves into the trap。
and they followed the head of the human trafficking scheme。
and went to Cambodia,。
and they never able to return, they disappeared.。
It's a horrible news.。
It's a horrible news.。
There's no bottom line in morality.。
But what they did was that they were in a time of weakness,。
time of wilderness, so to speak,。
and they are being tempted to get some quick money。
but got themselves into huge trouble.。
What David did in the wilderness。
is that he recall something。
that he had experienced with God.。
Memory defines us.。
Think of your memory, your spiritual memory.。
What do you remember?。
Reading the Bible, God speaking to you,。
the Holy Spirit touching your life.。
You know, here and there,。
there must be some sort of spiritual encounter with God.。
Some people would encounter God with a different ways.。
Some people would encounter God。
in a totally different means,。
and some people would cry for three days.。
Some people would just feel it, and life goes on.。
But those are real experience.。
Those are real spiritual encounter with God,。
and that goes into our memory,。
and this is what exactly what David is doing.。
He recall in his memory, in the midst of wilderness,。
in the midst of tough time.。
Do you do that?。
Do you do that when life gets difficult?。
When life gets tough?。
You recall memories with God, right?。
I wonder if you have ever lived with someone。
who has suffered Alzheimer's disease.。
Have you ever?。
Have you ever?。
For some years, my mother-in-law。
was suffering Alzheimer's disease.。
Now, Alzheimer's disease is painful to see.。
It's painful to experience with her,。
because at least physically,。
I mean, her organs or body functions。
are continually deteriorating.。
But I think the most painful thing。
to see her going through suffering Alzheimer's disease。
is the loss of memory.。
She lost much of her memory,。
and she lost herself.。
She doesn't know who she is.。
Not to mention where she is, right?。
I remember that one time, she always go out for a walk,。
and there was one afternoon, I came back home,。
and we came back home, and we don't find her.。
So we're kind of very desperate.。
And then I drove my car around the neighborhood,。
every single block, searching for her.。
And all of a sudden, on Western Avenue, on Western,。
I found a cop, and there she is.。
The cop is talking to her, but she doesn't know English.。
She doesn't know where she is.。
And then, thank God, we found her.。
And then I talked to the cop, and he says,。
"My mother-in-law, okay, I want to pick her up."。
So he was kind enough, and no question asked,。
and we bring her home.。
It's painful to see that she just don't know where she is.。
She don't know who she is.。
And after she came home, a couple hours later,。
we asked her, "What happened?。
"What happened, Mom?"。
She cannot recall.。
She cannot recall.。
And I told her, "We were searching for you.。
"You got lost in the neighborhood,。
"and some of the neighbors encountered you。
"and called the police.。
"That's why you came home."。
And she cannot remember, recall any of this experience.。
I think God is merciful to those people,。
because they just don't know who they are.。
And they even cannot sustain their belief.。
If you ask her questions about faith,。
she cannot respond positively.。
Memory loss.。
Now, what I'm trying to say is,。
memory is a powerful thing.。
Memory defines us.。
When you meet someone who's new to you,。
meaning a new friend, what do you ask?。
How do you know someone?。
Hearing the story, right?。
If you want to get to know someone。
or introduce yourself to someone else, what do you do?。
You talk about yourself.。
You talk about your story, your history,。
your memory, where it came from,。
and what did I do, and what happened to me。
in the past few years, or whatever.。
It's your memory that connects with other people.。
And memory is a powerful thing.。
And in the wilderness, Psalm 63,。
David is recalling his past experience with God.。
I have seen you with my own eyes.。
The sanctuary, the temple, the glorious temple,。
the sacrifice, the songs that I hear,。
the choirs that are singing the praise and worship.。
Other people of God in the community.。
That's why his spiritual life is vibrant.。
Now, how do you sustain yourself?。
How do you even grow in the wilderness?。
The answer is to remember.。
To memorize what God has done in your lives.。
So often we think when life is not going well,。
only if God can turn around my bad situation,。
then everything will go well, right?。
This is our naive prayer.。
Now, of course we want to get healing, right,。
when we're sick.。
Of course when we lack of money,。
we want God to shower us some cash, right?。
Turn around our circumstances, turn bad into good,。
and then we'll praise God, we'll thank God, right?。
No, of course, we'll pray that way, right?。
We'll pray in that orientation.。
But don't you know, at least from the Old Testament,。
or from our real life situation,。
when people find themselves, everything is going well.。
It's going well.。
They forget about God.。
For the Old Testament, story after story,。
the people of God, when God bless them,。
they forget about God, right?。
They forget about Him, and they follow the idols.。
They follow money.。
They worship gold and silver.。
This is the irony in our relationship with God.。
However, David is not praying。
that God will take him out of wilderness.。
In the wilderness, he recall his past experience.。
He recall his experience of worshiping God in the temple,。
worshiping God with other people.。
And guys, this is how you keep yourself,。
sustain yourself in the presence of God,。
in the love of God.。
It does not merely depend on your circumstances.。
It does not depend merely on your external condition.。
It is right here, the soul scape.。
It's not the landscape that defines you.。
It's the soul scape.。
It's your relationship with God Himself.。
I remember I had a really good friend,。
and his life really inspired me.。
What it means to be a Christian.。
You know, he's a very humble man, very quiet man,。
but his faith is rock solid.。
I remember in his last days,。
I went to ICU to visit him.。
He couldn't talk.。
He couldn't talk.。
He could only say a few words.。
But his faith is rock solid.。
Now that inspires me because,。
not because he was so blessed, right?。
Not because everything is going well with him.。
On the other hand, he's not going well, right?。
He was suffering from cancer.。
But in his whole life,。
he becomes inspiration for many of us,。
because even in times of wilderness,。
he lives in the presence of God.。
He and God have a relationship.。
Have a close, personal relationship.。
And that inspired me because of his faith.。
He reminds me there is some other reality in the world.。
It's not just something we can hear。
or we can touch right now.。
It's not just here and now.。
There is another world.。
There is another hope that transcends everything.。
That inspires me.。
The goodness of God.。
Now we will continue to study the psalm,。
but I want to leave you this challenge today.。
Is God really your God?。
Or you just follow your friends?。
Yeah, we have a good time, right?。
But God is just someone else's, not yours.。
You are my God.。
Earnestly I seek.。
And if you find yourself in times of wilderness,。
I pray that your life will continue。
and completely transform.。
It's not just a quick fix.。
All right, everything goes well.。
And then I forget about God.。
And life goes on.。
God is taking the landscape into your soul scape.。
He's working something transformative in your spirit。
so that you will draw closer and closer to God.。
Let's all pray together.。
No matter where you are。
and what is going through in your life.。
I pray that you take a moment before God。
to reorient yourself.。
God, thank you.。
You are the God who listens to our prayers.。
Thank you for all the emotions that we encounter.。
All the emotional highs and lows。
that you allow to have happen in our lives.。
For our experience to transform us,。
to bring us closer to you.。
I pray especially for those sisters and brothers。
who are going through some tough time of wilderness。
where there's no water and they're exhausted.。
I pray for your strength.。
I pray that your presence will be real to them.。
You will walk through the wilderness with them.。
You will be with them.。
You will let them sense your presence。
as something so real that we can take it。
and call you our God, our personal God.。
And thank you for being our great and faithful Lord.。
I pray that every step of the way in this coming week,。
you will grant strength and grace to your people.。
That your church will be built up。
and your people will be closer to you.。
In Christ's name, we pray, amen.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
