- Good morning everyone.。
And we will continue our series on the Psalms in the Bible.。
And as I told you before,。
many of the Psalms were originally prayers。
spoken by the people of God.。
But some of the Psalms in the book of Psalms。
are written for the purpose of teaching us something.。
So teaching us how to relate to God,。
teaching us how to see ourselves and see the world.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now we call these kinds of Psalms, wisdom Psalms.。
You may have heard it the very first time today,。
but we can call them wisdom Psalms。
because these wisdom Psalms are meant to teach us something,。
to teach us wisdom, make us wiser。
and help us better relate to God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And let's read this, Psalm 1, okay?。
So Psalm 1 has six verses.。
Let's read that verse by verse.。
Let me begin with English.。
Psalm 1, verse 1.。
"Thus is the man who does not walk。
in the counsel of the wicked,。
or stand in the way of sinners,。
or sit in the seat of mockers."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But his delight is in the law of the Lord,。
and on his law he meditates day and night.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And verse 3, "He is like a tree planted by streams of water,。
which yields its fruit in season,。
and whose leaf does not wither.。
Whatever he does prospers."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Not so the wicked, they are like a shaft,。
and that the wind blows away.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And verse 5, "Therefore the wicked。
will not stand in judgment,。
nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And verse 6, "For the Lord watches over。
the way of the righteous,。
but the way of the wicked will perish."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now Psalm 1 is the first Psalm in the book of Sardar,。
and it is like a gate to the temple of God.。
So before you enter the temple of God,。
there was a gate that you have to go through,。
and you walk into the presence of God,。
the most holy place.。
So Psalm 1 is like the gate of the temple.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the first word of Psalm 1 verse 1。
is the word we translate blessed.。
And in the Old Testament, there were two words of blessing.。
And you have to note that, okay?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now the first word I give you is Barak.。
And that is the word we use to describe。
the blessing of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
To mean like we bless you because we wanna grant you。
or give you the power of life.。
You know, being blessed, being fruitful.。
You know, you recall Genesis 1,。
when God created the world, He blessed humankind.。
He blessed the world, be fruitful and multiply.。
And that is the word Barak.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, so learn this word, Barak, okay?。
Say it with me, okay?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Barak, okay?。
But that is not the word in Psalm 1, 1, okay?。
That is interesting.。
That's the second Hebrew word we translate blessed。
or blessing, and that is ashare.。
We also translate it as blessed most of the time.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
That's blessed most of the time.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So it doesn't mean like give you life or empower you.。
It gives you hope and it focuses on something in the future。
that you will receive future reward and final blessing.。
So this means a blessed person in Psalm 1。
do have difficulties now.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then this same word, ashare, say it with me, ashare.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Ashare, okay, so you learn some Hebrew word.。
The word ashare is also used in another book。
called the Book of Job, chapter five, verse 17.。
See the word being translated is also blessed.。
And the word behind it, the Hebrew word behind it。
is ashare, not barak.。
So blessed is the one whom God disciplines.。
That is Job 5, 17.。
Now, of course, when you think about discipline,。
God disciplines someone, right?。
And you call that someone blessed.。
You know, in the state of being disciplined,。
do you feel happy or do you feel good about it?。
Usually not, right?。
Usually not.。
But it's called blessed is the person whom God discipline.。
So discipline does not feel joyful at the time,。
but at the end, you will receive the benefits of discipline.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, for example, if you do a physical exercise regularly,。
anyone, one of you go to the gym, you go to exercise,。
you go to do physical exercise.。
When you start out working out, okay,。
when you start to work out, does it feel good?。
No, it shouldn't feel good, right?。
If you feel good when you started doing exercise,。
you're doing it wrong, okay?。
It doesn't feel good when you started to discipline yourself,。
discipline your body.。
It hurts at first, but you are still blessed。
because if you keep going, if you keep persevering,。
then you will receive the final blessing, right?。
You will receive the final reward.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Or another example is a student.。
You go to study and in the beginning of the semester,。
does it feel good or does it feel happy?。
Usually not, right?。
You feel painful as you go through the semester,。
but you see the good result will be at the end,。
and so the blessing is not here and now,。
it's something in the future.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So Psalm 11 says, "Blessed is the man who does this。
"or does not do those, this things or that things."。
He's talking about the final blessing, final result.。
And Jesus used the same word in Beatitudes,。
in the book of Matthew.。
He said, plus, he used the same word in Greek now。
because New Testament is written in Greek, not in Hebrew,。
but it's translated in Greek, makaria,。
and that is being used by Jesus in Beatitudes.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And the same word, as share makaria.。
Okay, say makaria with me, okay?。
Makaria. - Makaria.。
- Makaria, okay?。
All right, so as I give you some example here,。
Jesus said, "Blessed are the poor in spirit,。
"and blessed are those persecuted for righteousness."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, when you're going through suffering or persecution,。
it doesn't feel good, right?。
The early church faced the same problem.。
They had suffering and they had persecution,。
but Jesus say, "If you belong to the kingdom,。
"the final reward will be yours,。
"and final reward will be great."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So I think Psalm 1:1 can be translated this way,。
and that's my translation.。
It can be translated,。
the person who will be ultimately rewarded by God。
is someone who does not walk in the counsel of wicked。
and this and that.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So it's not talking about here and now。
that you will feel happy.。
It's talking about ultimately,。
at the end of your life, you will feel blessed, okay?。
So as we go through Psalm 1,1,。
you also, the Psalm also unpacks。
how a blessed person will be.。
He says he does not walk and does not stand。
and does not sit.。
And you see the progression here, right?。
It's like a poem progression from walking。
to standing to sitting,。
and describe how the spiritual drift can happen gradually.。
To walk is being influenced by the wicked,。
by the opinions of the wicked.。
And to stand is to linger,。
to identify yourself with them.。
To sit is to settle down, right?。
To feel belong and feel comfortable with the wicked.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And you see the movement is from motion,。
walking to permanence, right?。
So in showing us compromises can slowly happen。
and become a fixed way of lifestyle.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But the person who is blessed,。
who see the final reward,。
is someone who does not do those, right?。
Does not do those.。
The righteous, not the wicked,。
the righteous will fear God。
and may at this time disadvantage themselves.。
The righteous will disadvantage themselves。
to advantage others.。
But the wicked will ignore God.。
The wicked will not see God, will not fear God.。
And they will disadvantage others for their own advantages.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So it says the righteous does not do those things.。
It's an invitation.。
The first Psalm of the Bible is to invite you。
to make a decision to be like the righteous。
and blessed person before God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now let's continue.。
Verse two, continue to describe this person.。
And it says the righteous person is,。
has having delight, a happy delight。
in the law of the Lord.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
It's talking about the inner direction of your heart, right?。
It's not something behavioral, it's not legalism.。
It's some sort of acquired taste for the righteous person.。
Okay, he acquired the taste, the delight。
in the law of God.。
And it's kind of like acquired taste.。
It's kind of like, you like coffee or durian?。
Something like that.。
It's not a natural taste.。
It's acquired taste.。
I like coffee, I take coffee every single day.。
And I didn't like it before when I was much younger.。
But I acquired that taste.。
Now the righteous, it's the same thing here.。
He trains himself, like a student,。
he trains himself, his mind to desire the word of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And here he says he meditates day and night.。
And it does not mean emptying your mind.。
You know, I recall one of the experiences I had。
when I was a college student.。
I took Philosophy 101, and the philosophy professor。
asked the students in the lecture hall,。
all of us, to empty our mind.。
You know, he was trying to do some exercise,。
some sort of transcendental meditation.。
So you have to empty your mind and then imagine something.。
You know, that is the secular meditation.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then in the Bible, biblical meditation is different.。
It means you think about it, think about the word of God.。
You study the word of God.。
You question the word of God.。
You examine the word of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And it says day and night, it does not mean 24/7.。
It means habit, something customary.。
You don't neglect it.。
You know, it's like your habit every day.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then it also tells you that the object of meditation。
is Torah, or we translate the law of the Lord.。
Torah, actually, a better translation would be instruction,。
guidance, or teaching.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, the word Torah, or translated in English, law,。
or instruction, actually points to the whole revelation。
of God.。
So the Bible is like a constitution of the kingdom people.。
We read this document because we want to understand。
the principle, the instructions being written here.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So someone invites you to grasp the whole Torah,。
the whole counsel of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And it's pretty sad because many Christians today,。
we are selective.。
And someone tells us, you cannot be selective。
in the word of God.。
You need the whole counsel of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then verse three continues to describe。
this righteous person like this.。
He's like a tree planted by streams of water。
and yielding the fruit in season.。
And the leaf does not wither,。
and whatever he does prospers.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, you think about this image.。
It's an image of life and stability, being steady.。
Imagine a tree with the roots growing deeper and deeper。
into the ground and planted by the water.。
And at the right time, the tree will yield fruit,。
and it will become blessing to other people.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then in the ancient years, the culture of the Bible,。
where can you find trees?。
Most of the time, you find trees in temples.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then you remember the first temple,。
so-called temple in the Bible,。
was actually the Garden of Eden.。
The Garden of Eden, Eve, right?。
Garden of Eden, with the tree of life.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, that's the beginning of the Bible,。
but the end of the Bible, the final chapter of the Bible。
in the book of Revelation talks about new heavens。
and new earth, there again, a river and tree of life.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So what it means is that the blessed person,。
the righteous person who is dedicated in the Torah,。
in the instruction of God,。
will live in the presence of God, like in the temple.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So it's inviting you to be the righteous person,。
inviting you to be the blessed person.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then verse four talks about the wicked.。
Verse four, "Not so the wicked,。
they're not like the righteous,。
they are not like the blessed.。
They are like shaft, that the wind blows away."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And when farmers get their harvest from the field,。
like wheat or barley,。
they will bring it to the flushing floor.。
It's also, most of the time,。
they will bring the harvest grain to the flushing floor.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And because the flushing floor。
is usually on the high ground, on the hilltop,。
so you get stronger wind.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And the farmers will throw the crushed grain into the air,。
and then it will drop, right?。
And the shaft, the shell of the wheat and barley,。
they have no weight, and they have no life and no future.。
They will be blown away by the wind.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So Psalm 1 says, "The wicked are like this.。
They do not belong to the assembly。
of the righteous, the blessing."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Therefore, it continues to tell us,。
"The wicked will not stand in judgment,。
nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And verse six tells you,。
"For the Lord watches over the way of the righteous,。
but the way of the wicked will perish."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
See, if you are righteous,。
if you make the commitment to love the Word of God,。
even though today you may have suffering,。
but finally, ultimately, you will have blessing.。
And you need to understand God knows your way.。
God knows your life.。
This is not just information.。
It means there's a relationship.。
There's a covenant.。
There's a commitment from God.。
There's a caring from God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So in conclusion, this psalm,。
the very first psalm in the Bible presents to you。
there are two ways of life.。
There are two different directions of life。
and two endings in our lives.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And it asks you, the very important question is,。
what is your decision today?。
What is your commitment today?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
I think there are some applications。
or take-homes for us.。
First of all is that,。
it invites you to know God.。
And knowing God is a life decision.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And Psalm 1 reminds you that worship,。
knowing God, begins with choosing the way of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then secondly, it tells you,。
you have to work on something.。
You have to work on knowing the whole counsel of God,。
the whole Bible.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now do not read the Bible selectively.。
You have to read the Bible。
or some parts of a Bible that are not familiar to you,。
that are not comfortable to you.。
Do not only choose comfortable passages from the Bible.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So I wanna invite you this week, all right?。
If you don't have this habit, all right,。
I wanna invite you this week for the next seven days,。
read one chapter of scripture every day.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
When you have a little bit of time,。
you know, how much time do you need。
to read one chapter of the Bible?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
You say, okay, it depends on how long the chapter is, right?。
There's some shorter, there's some longer, right?。
But you know, three to five minutes, right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But when you have free time, let your mind,。
when you read the Bible, let your mind return。
to the mind of God, to the word of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So Psalm 1 is a precious psalm.。
It stands as a gate, as the opening door,。
as the entrance into the presence of God.。
Before entering into the presence of God, worshiping Him,。
we ask ourselves the questions, where are we standing?。
What kind of person are we becoming?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
I want to invite you to pray with me,。
to make this commitment today.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Let's pray together.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Dear Lord, thank you for your word,。
showing us the way of eternal life.。
And we do ask you to help us to take delight in your truth.。
Be rooted like a tree by streams of water.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
We ask you to keep us from drifting。
into paths that lead away from you.。
We ask you to teach us to walk in your ways,。
so that our lives may bear fruit for your glory.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Amen.。
- Amen.。
- All right, well God bless you,。
and I want to see you next week,。
and make sure you do your homework, right?。
Every day, just one chapter, okay, just one chapter.。
You can read more, okay, but it is one chapter.。
So you say, where to start, right?。
We'll start with Psalm, okay?。
Psalm one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.。
Psalm one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, all right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, I'll see you next week.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
