Good morning everyone, well we have been walking through the Bible big story, remember from。
Genesis to Revelation is a huge grand story, it's about this God of mission and He is。
determined to bless the world against rebellion against Him.。
And then you remember God chose Abraham and the patriarchs and used them for redemptive。
work even though they were broken and then He redeemed Israel out of Egypt and gave them。
law at Mount Sinai and then astonishingly, astonishingly God chose to dwell among them。
through the tabernacle and through the desert and through the wilderness, again it's the。
theme of our daily devotion this month.。
Now today passage is taken from the book of Leviticus which is the third book of the Pentateuch,。
the five-born Moses and it talks about a festival that God told Israel to keep.。
So it's all about festival in the Old Testament, so you think about festivals okay, you think。
about the reason why we celebrate or certain kinds of festival.。
That's not what happened, you know people are going firework until 2 or 3 a.m. in my。
neighborhood, right?。
It was July 4th Independence, it was a festival and you remember the reason why we have liberty。
and freedom and you think of a lot of different festival for many of you, you think of Dragon。
Ball, right?。
Recently there was a festival in the Chinese context and then Christian festival as well.。
We have Christmas, we have Easter, we have the Lord's Day, every day one day of seven。
days a week and then we come to worship.。
So there is reason behind all festivals.。
So for Israel, when they came out of Egypt and not yet to the promised land, there were。
40 years they were in the desert, right, in the wilderness and then they are not there。
yet and God set up a tabernacle among them and then right at the center of their camps。
and leading them forward step by step.。
So they came out of Egypt and they were the new people and they received God's law and。
the new way of life.。
Now they are wandering, you know, in the wilderness and God gave them no map, there was no map。
in the desert, remember.。
And then God surprisingly gave them some festival to keep and there were three festival in the。
Old Testament.。
So as you can see on the slide, the first one, the biggest one is Passover which happens。
to be early April festival and then the harvest, the Pentecost, which means weeks, 50 days.。
So 50 days, 49 days after the Passover is the Pentecost, 50, right?。
Happens to be May 21st this year and the Feast of Tabernacles, remember, you know, the wilderness。
years and Israel building booths in the wilderness.。
And then today's passage is taken from the book of Leviticus, it talks about the Feast。
of Booths, Feast of Tabernacles.。
So the Jewish people today, especially in Israel, they are still keeping the same festival。
and you know, this year as I show you is in late September.。
So let me read this passage, you know, we're going to translate it as well, 2339 in the。
book of Leviticus.。
So God said to Israel, to his people, "So beginning with the 15th day of the seventh。
month, after you have gathered the crops of the land, celebrate the festival of the Lord。
for seven days.。
The first day is the day of rest and the eighth day is also a day of rest."。
So verse 40, it says, "On the first day of the week, you are to take choice fruit from。
trees and palm trees and branches and all of the poplars and then rejoice before the。
Lord your God for seven days."。
So 41, it says, "Celebrate this festival as a festival to the Lord for seven days each。
year, and this is to be a lasting ordinance for the generations to come.。
Celebrate in the seventh month."。
42, it says, "Live in the booths, the tabernacles, the small tabernacles, for seven days.。
All native-born Israelites, the people of God, are to live in booths.。
So your descendants will know that I had the Israelite living booths when I brought them。
out of Egypt.。
I am the Lord your God."。
So we think about this passage, okay, let's see what kind of lessons we can be taught。
about this passage.。
So the first thing, I think, we, from this passage, we read that we have to learn to。
remember the grace of God in our life.。
Now the Feast of Tabernacles was kept every year right after the autumn harvest.。
So the crops are gathered in already in the barn and you can imagine, you know, in late。
September, the most comfortable year, the most comfortable season of the year, and then。
they gather all the crops and if your harvest pay off, how will you celebrate?。
You know, God says, "You keep a festival."。
So God is not telling them, you know, "After the harvest you have to celebrate, you need。
to keep a festival."。
And that's so strange, right?。
Because it says, "Beginning of the festival, after, after you have gathered the crops,。
after you have gathered your harvest, celebrate the festival before the Lord for seven days.。
You pause and celebrate before the Lord."。
Isn't it counterintuitive?。
You know, right after you got your harvest, your paycheck, and then you have to celebrate。
before the Lord, not in the party.。
You build a booth of branches and live there for seven days.。
So as you can see, it's after you got the harvest.。
So God is telling them, "When life is going well for you, it is so easy for you to forget。
God."。
And this is a common tendency of human heart.。
The Feast of Tabernacles is placed there right after the harvest, right after you got your。
paycheck.。
As if God is telling you, your greatest danger is not your lack of resources, it is not wilderness,。
it's not outside.。
It is the moment that you hold God's blessing in your hand, gold and silver in your hand.。
That is the most dangerous moment.。
So the most dangerous spiritual moment is after you got the blessing.。
So in Deuteronomy 8, Moses warned the people of God before they entered Canaan.。
He said, "When you eat and are satisfied, your heart will become what?。
Become proud, and then you will forget the Lord your God."。
Isn't that the experience all we have?。
We make a lot of money.。
We try to work hard and make a lot of money.。
And then we etch God out of our life.。
And you think about it.。
It's very interesting because money can talk to us like God talk to us.。
You think about it.。
You hold the money in your hand or you check your iPhone, your app, your bank app, and。
then the money is whispering to you, you know, "Hey, you are safe and you are secure, you。
are at peace because geez, you got money, you got some numbers, right?"。
And then your future is guaranteed.。
But you know, all these things only God can offer you.。
So the law, the scripture, move together, move into the life's rhythm.。
The Feast of Tabernacles.。
So once a year at the height of abundance and blessing, they got all the harvest and。
the law is calling the people of God back to remember the grace they first knew from。
God.。
As you remember, this year is our church UV's 10th anniversary.。
Now usually in church anniversaries, every single year, the most natural thing for us。
to do is to count or tally up our accomplishment or achievement, right?。
How many people in the attendance?。
But you know, what we need, what we need most is actually to return to the years that we。
got nothing, year one, day one.。
So we think about day one as I was here and some of you were here, day one of UV.。
We got nothing, we got nothing, we got nothing, we got no money, we got no staff, and we would。
never become a church without the grace of God and let alone last this long.。
And I want to tell you in North America, most of the new churches, most of the new churches,。
church plans do not even last past three years.。
So the first thing is to remember the grace of God on the height and after we receive。
blessing.。
The second thing is to face and to understand that life is fragile.。
So remember in verse 40 it says, "On the first day you take choice fruit from the tree and。
branches and rejoice before the Lord your God for seven days."。
So it says live in the booths for seven days and the Hebrew word for tabernacle or booth。
is sukkah and that is the name of a Jewish festival today is called sukkot.。
So you know the Jewish people, especially the whereby, have a very interesting rules。
or interpretation of how to build a booth.。
And then they are called, there's a later Jewish law called halakha and that means walking,。
you know walking the truth, you know how to practice it.。
And here I list out some of the specific rules laid down by later Jewish rabbis.。
So they said you need to celebrate the festival by building your booth in the backyard, right?。
And then here let me go through it.。
First thing the whereby says it cannot be taller than 33 feet and you know why?。
But because if your booth in the backyard is too tall then it becomes a home, right?。
It becomes permanent.。
So second thing is because a booth has to be temporary.。
And then the law also says you know once you get too comfortable you will forget that it's。
a booth and it becomes another home for you.。
And then the roof has to be made of natural plant materials.。
That means it is easily run down and is easily you know you cannot keep the rain out.。
And then the walls of your booth has had to be flimsy and no one should live in the booth。
for seven days and feel like oh are we living in the real house of stone.。
[Chinese]。
And then this rule if you think about it sounds very strange, right?。
And then but they carry some spiritual insight into it, right?。
Because it reminds you that life is fragile.。
[Chinese]。
And then we spend so much energy, so much money to build up our lives, right?。
You got insurance, you got your security and your stability and yet if you think about。
it one tree can wipe out or one storm can wipe everything out.。
[Chinese]。
Now recently you know we all experienced a storm, right?。
And then a tree fell and you know this is one of the pictures is a tree fell on a church。
staff member of another church, right? And then the whole car was crushed.。
[Chinese]。
And then let me make a note here.。
Yesterday we were out of power in this area and we were thinking about you know we cannot。
meet here, right? Because without light and without power.。
So we were trying to prepare for the online live streaming.。
[Chinese]。
So after all the preparation and she came back to the church and said, "Oh, the power is。
up again."。
[Chinese]。
See life is unpredictable.。
[Chinese]。
Here I show you NBC Chicago even when the report asking the question whether the tornado。
alley has changed, it's shifting closer to Chicago.。
You see we cannot even stop the climate changing, right? We are far more fragile than we think.。
[Chinese]。
See the flimsy sukkah is meant to communicate to us that your life is fragile.。
[Chinese]。
And why? Because God want his people to know that what truly protects you was never the。
strength of your own, not your booth, but not something that you built, but the God。
who dwell among us.。
[Chinese]。
If you think about it, our community, our church, our life is also fragile, you know,。
it's a reminder that without God we are done, we are game over.。
[Chinese]。
And so you need to pray for the church, you know?。
[Chinese]。
Deuteronomy says, you know, God is protecting Israel in the entire journey of the wilderness.。
[Chinese]。
Now the third point we can learn from this festival is that we have to learn to pass。
on the mission of God.。
[Chinese]。
Now the heart of this festival and this passage is that so your descendants, the next generations,。
will know that I had the Israelites live in booths when I brought them out of Egypt.。
I am the Lord your God.。
[Chinese]。
And the booth was never meant to be private.。
It's not your own personal thing, it's a public thing, it's a living festival.。
We enact every year and pass from one generation to the next.。
[Chinese]。
Now in the household of Jewish people today, they have this question and answer ritual when。
they live in the booth, you know, for seven days in their backyard and they have this。
question and answer kind of ritual and the children will ask them questions and the parents。
will answer the questions.。
[Chinese]。
Now the children may ask one of the questions is, "Why do we have to move outside to live。
in the backyard?"。
[Chinese]。
And the parents are to answer, "Because there was once a time we had no home and God was。
our home."。
[Chinese]。
And the children may ask another question is, "Why does the roof have gaps that we can。
see the stars?"。
[Chinese]。
And the parents answer, "It is not broken.。
The roof is not broken.。
It's meant to be like that, intentional.。
It's intentional because we need to be reminded that what truly covers us is not a roof but。
God."。
[Chinese]。
And one more insight from the Festival of Tabernacles is that on the Sabbath day during。
the Feast of Tabernacles, now, today, the Jewish people will read one of the books from。
the Old Testament, which is the book of Ecclesiastes.。
[Chinese]。
And you remember the book of Ecclesiastes emphasizes the fact that life is meaningless.。
It's like vapor, right?。
Life is meaningless.。
Everything is meaningless.。
Everything is fragile.。
It ends up, you know, reminding us what is truly worth our pursuit is that we set our。
hearts on the eternal things for God.。
[Chinese]。
So no matter what you do today, you set your life direction, the ultimate direction is。
to honor and to serve God, you know?。
[Chinese]。
Now, some people once asked me, "If you could go back 10 years ago, before you restarted,"。
you know, it was a really, really hard time for me.。
And people asked me, "Would you do the same?。
Would you make the same decision?"。
[Chinese]。
And I answered, you know, without hesitation, "Of course, yes!"。
[Chinese]。
And those were very difficult days, but I always carry a sense of, you know, gratitude。
and thanksgiving.。
You know, not everyone, you know, not everyone gets a chance to build up the church from。
nothing, right?。
To start a church, brick by brick.。
[Chinese]。
And I believe you too, right?。
God is calling you to join us, and I believe that, you know, we carry the eternal value。
in us, and we want to go forth and seek the kingdom of God, and that's the first and。
foremost thing in our life.。
[Chinese]。
Now in a moment, I'm going to give you, in this series, next series, I'm going to give。
you an item, right, to remember this series, this big story of God.。
And I'm going to give each one of you a small piece of bamboo, a very small piece of bamboo.。
It's a simple and tangible reminder for you and for me, just like Israel used branches。
to build the Petermonachos in the backyard.。
[Chinese]。
Now you bring this home and you ask yourself a few questions.。
[Chinese]。
The first question I suggest is, how have I experienced the grace of God recently?。
[Chinese]。
You know, how have you experienced the blessing of God recently?。
Second, how should I respond to the faithfulness of God?。
[Chinese]。
The third one is that, you know, as you think about it, you know, God has kept you in the。
wilderness and taught you and show himself to be trustworthy after all.。
[Chinese]。
And the third question is, how can I pass on the Word of God to others and to the next。
generation?。
[Chinese]。
Now take this piece of item home and put it in the jar, right?。
We have a jar prepared for you, right?。
[Chinese]。
Take this home and this week and sit with the questions that I suggested.。
[Chinese]。
Okay, shall we pray together?。
