You know, make sure you spend some time after our service。
and say hi to each other, OK?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And I was in Toronto for the past two weeks。
speaking in churches.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So it's very good to be back to Chicago to our church.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, as you can see, I have been thinking--。
we're thinking about women in ministry in this sermon series.。
So today, we are on one passage, which is called Romans 16.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So thinking about women in ministry。
and how the Bible view women, before we do that,。
we have to reveal something.。
Some of the following propositions。
that I find meaningful for us.。
So we're going to read each one of them, all together five,。
and decide in your mind whether it is true or false.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So I think about women in the Bible and women in ministry.。
Number one, the Bible is a product of a patriarchal。
society.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And true or false, right?。
The Bible, cultural background of the Bible, is patriarchal.。
It means no male is always on top, right?。
The men are on top.。
And the men are the leaders.。
But be careful.。
Even the Bible assumes a patriarchal system.。
That is not the same as the Bible endorsing it.。
It is assuming it, but it's not necessarily approving it.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So number two is that the Bible is pretty much。
a male-centric literature, right?。
It's male-centric.。
It's coming through male eyes.。
You know, most of the authors, or all the authors, were men.。
And the language defaults to male.。
And you think about the Bible story, most of the heroes。
that we hear all the time, the genealogies or the backgrounds,。
they are always man-centered, right?。
So when a female reader reads the Bible。
and finds it hard for herself to plug into it--。
Moses, David, and Paul, they're all men--。
that feeling is real.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So number one is true.。
Number two is true.。
And number three, the Bible challenges patriarchal values.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, you expect that a book like the Bible coming out。
of a male-centered, male-first culture。
would despise women, right?。
You would expect that.。
Because it's a male book, right?。
It's a man's book.。
But the Bible does the opposite from time to time,。
and actually many times.。
It questions male-first values.。
And sometimes it turns around and challenges。
the men themselves.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So and then number four, women in the Bible。
play a strategic role in the biblical plan,。
the biblical history.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And you think about the turning points,。
the important turning points in the Bible story.。
The Exodus, you have the midwife saving。
the child of the children of the Hebrews.。
And then Deborah, the judge.。
And then Ruth, Hannah, and all these women,。
they step in as strategic point of the plan of salvation。
so that the plan can move forward.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So number five, we must, we, as readers of the Bible,。
we must read the Bible scripture with high sensitivity。
to its context.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, if you read the Bible out of the context,。
without the context, the Bible becomes a blank check for you,。
right?。
It will say whatever you want it to say.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So we have gone through one, two, three, four, five, right?。
They are all true, or some of them are false?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So they're all true, right?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
You agree?。
Yeah, they're all true.。
They're all true.。
They're all true.。
OK?。
So the Bible is a product of patriarchal society.。
It is a male-centric literature.。
Yet, it challenges values of the patriarchal society.。
And then women play important strategic role。
in the plan of salvation.。
And then, we must read the Bible within its own context.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So today, we come to a very interesting passage, Romans 16.。
And you remember the letter of Romans.。
Paul finished this letter to the Roman Christians.。
And at the end, he sends some greetings.。
His greetings to a long list of people.。
And you try to count them.。
There were a lot of people being named.。
All of them, like, more than 20 names.。
But half of them were female.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So let's go through some of the names here.。
The first point I want to point out。
is that, as we read this passage,。
we have to rethink our own assumptions.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So Romans 16.7, it says, you know,。
the long list of people, Paul trying。
to greet at the end of the letter.。
He says, "Greet Andrew Nicus and Julia.。
They are outstanding among the apostles,。
and they were in Christ before I was."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So first question I have for you is Julia.。
Is it a female name or a male name?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Well, let me give you an easier question.。
OK, is Mark-- my name is Mark.。
Is Mark a male name or a female name?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Male, right?。
Yeah, thank you.。
Yeah, male name, OK?。
Definitely a male name, OK?。
Julia is actually a name for a woman, OK?。
But Paul is saying that this woman, Julia,。
is an outstanding apostle among all the apostles,。
not known to the apostles, but she。
is counted as one apostle, a prominent one.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
But it's very interesting.。
In the long history of Bible translation, for centuries,。
that female name got changed from Julia。
and quietly changed to Julius.。
At an S, you become a male name.。
And this is a problem, right?。
Because from among all the literatures。
we find in first century, there's。
no evidence that Julius was ever a male name.。
And it appears that the translation,。
as interpretations, trying to reinvent it.。
Because along the line, maybe the translator。
assumed that a woman could not possibly be called an apostle.。
So the text must be wrong, right?。
But the modern critical translations。
have restored-- you know, we're trying。
to restore this name, Julia, a woman.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So let me note here, if you check the older English。
translation, it says Julius.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
But the newer, the newer updated translations,。
they all spell Julia without the S, a female name.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now you sit with that.。
You know, the Bible didn't change.。
The Bible didn't change.。
It didn't change.。
It never changed, OK?。
It's the assumption of the translations。
changed the verse.。
Someone was unsure, so sure that a woman cannot be an apostle.。
So they tried to edit the text so fit into their assumption.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So the problem is not the Bible.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
The problem is us, Bible reader.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, so often, what we call what the Bible says--。
remember what the Bible says.。
You know, people tell you that's what the Bible says--。
can actually be what we have been always been taught, right?。
Not actually what the Bible says,。
but what we always been taught.。
And those are not the same thing.。
The two things are different.。
A tradition can be old, can be sincere, or deeply held,。
but still not carrying the same authority of Scripture itself.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, we're thinking our own assumptions is not rebellion.。
OK?。
Take this, OK?。
It's not rebellion.。
It's not because we're anti-whatever establishment.。
It is actually the opposite.。
You know, we are going back to the Bible text with humility。
to let Bible says what it actually says.。
And even when that overturns what we assumed before.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So number two-- point number two is that we have to recognize。
the value of women ministry.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Yeah, so that's the second point.。
First point is that we think our assumption.。
The second point is to recognize the value。
of the ministry of women.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So once our assumption is clear away,。
we look at what's been on the page of the Bible。
the whole time.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So let's take a look at some of the verses here.。
Chapter 16 again, verse 3, it says, "Greet Priscilla。
and Aquila."。
You know, there are two names here.。
There's actually a couple.。
Now, Priscilla is a female name or a male name.。
Female or male?。
Priscilla.。
Anyone call Priscilla here?。
Female, right?。
It has actually female, right?。
Prisca or Priscilla, it's the same thing, right?。
Prisca or Priscilla, female name, right?。
There's a female name, Priscilla, and then Aquila.。
Now, you notice that the wife's name。
is placed before the husband's name, right?。
Before.。
Now, in a male-centric world, that cannot be happening,。
right?。
That cannot be happening.。
Yet, you know, Paul is calling them co-workers.。
Not helpers, but co-workers with him.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And then there are a strain of names, and I highlight them.。
Mary, of course, is a female name.。
And then there are two more female names,。
Trivena and Trifosa and Persis, right?。
One, two, three, four, four names,。
they are all female names.。
And to each of the women, Paul attaches one word,。
and this says that they work hard for the kingdom.。
And here's the thing.。
That's the same word Paul uses to describe his ministry,。
his apostolic ministry, his own sweat for the gospel.。
So Paul is not being polite.。
He's measuring their ministry, the women ministry,。
with the same word that he uses for his own ministry.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So you see that in this last chapter of the Book of Romans,。
he recognizes, Paul recognizes, the value of women's ministry.。
And it's not being generous, it's not just being kind.。
It's simply just accuracy.。
Paul used the same vocabulary, co-worker, hard worker,。
apostle, to assign full weight, 100% weight, to the women。
that he worked with.。
And it's not just humility, it's just accuracy.。
It's just telling the truth.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So number three, not only we think our assumption,。
not only we recognize the value of women ministry,。
but third, we receive the ministry.。
We receive the ministry of women fully.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now we come to the first name that Paul--。
name in the last chapter.。
And there's a reason why I want to save this name, the last.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So verse 1, it says, Paul says to the churches in Rome,。
he says, I command to you, our sister--。
what is her name?。
Phoebe, right?。
Phoebe.。
Phoebe, a servant, or a deacon--。
the original Greek word is deacon-- of the church.。
And then receive her in the Lord in a way。
that is worthy of the saints, and give her。
any help she may need, for she has。
been a benefactor of many people,。
and benefactor of myself as well,。
or patron to myself as well.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, the first term Paul uses to describe Phoebe is deacon,。
or translated English here is servant, right?。
But actually, it's deacon, right?。
Deacon.。
Not much less, not some lesser feminine title,。
but exact same word he uses for male minister, male deacons,。
and even for himself.。
That's the same word.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And then the second word is the word help, right?。
She has helped me, and here the English translation,。
it says patron, which is correct, which is correct.。
Because in the Roman society, patrons are the benefactors.。
They are the protector.。
They are the sponsor of some other people.。
So being a patron is a person of standing and full of resources。
to shelter other people, to lead other people.。
So Phoebe is a patron.。
She is not a servant or assistant.。
She is a leader.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And then there's this part that we often miss when we read。
the Bible, especially this chapter.。
Phoebe is certainly someone who carried this letter, which。
is the letter of Romans, right, from where she was to Rome,。
because the letter was written to Roman Christians.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, in the ancient world, it's different from us.。
When we write a letter today, we want to send it out, right?。
Where do we go to send it out?。
Post office, yes, exactly, USPS, as close as they are,。
but they are still reliable, right?。
We send a letter using USPS, right, or mail service.。
But in the ancient world, there was no such kind like USPS,。
right?。
The letter carrier has to be the postman, right?。
There has to be someone carry the letter from the sender。
to the audience, right?。
So Phoebe is certainly the mail person, right?。
So when the letter arrives and the church gather,。
certainly the mail carrier, Phoebe herself,。
is not just giving the letter to someone.。
It's not like our modern postman.。
She is going to stand up before the congregation。
and read the letter aloud.。
Phoebe, a female voice, reading the letter of Paul。
aloud to the congregation.。
And then in those contexts, she is actually。
interpreting, reading, and explaining,。
answering questions.。
What does Paul mean by this or that?。
The carrier has to explain it.。
So the letter carrier was actually。
Paul's authorized preacher, authorized interpreter.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So that's very interesting.。
The very first person, the very first person。
to publicly read and interpret and teach。
the letter of Romans, the letter of Romans。
is the most theologically profound letter。
found in all scripture, right?。
The most important letter in the New Testament.。
And the first person who preached。
and the first person who read this letter to interpret it。
was a woman.。
Phoebe herself, right?。
So Paul chose Phoebe and sent Phoebe。
to be her authorized interpreter or preacher.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, that is really ironic here because some of the people。
would quote the letters from Paul。
to forbid women from teaching.。
But here, the first person, Phoebe herself,。
ever teach one of the most important Paul's letters。
was a woman and sent by a man, sent by Paul。
to read that letter to the church.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So you have to notice Paul is not just instructing the church.。
He is specifically telling them, you know,。
you're not going to admire her.。
You're not going to appreciate Phoebe,。
but to receive her ministry, receive her teaching.。
Give her what is needed for her and sit under her。
as she carries the meaning of the letter to the church.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So that's the last move here, the last point.。
It's not just, you know, to respect a woman's ministry.。
It's to receive it.。
You know, it's another thing to receive it,。
to let her read the letter, let her interpret the letter,。
let her preach, and to sit under the ministry。
of the Word of God that is actually given to Phoebe.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So you see in Romans 16, the last chapter of the book,。
Paul has a real team that have people working with him.。
And on this team, there were deacons, there were patrons,。
there were apostles, there were coworkers, one after another.。
And you can tell many of them were women.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So in the 1st century world, that was new.。
That was something really new, because Paul worked side。
by side with all these women.。
And then if he hand Phoebe the longest letter,。
the most profound letter he ever wrote,。
and trusted Phoebe to read that and to interpret that.。
And then he called Julia, an apostle,。
and Priscilla, a prominent coworker,。
and honored their labor out loud in this letter.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, that's the way Paul treated sisters and coworkers.。
And that is the way our church should treat our female workers,。
the sisters, to honor them, to receive their ministries.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And as I prepared this sermon, I thought。
of a very important female minister in my life.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
When I was in college, I went to a church。
with a college fellowship.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And there's one female minister who has always been there.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now, she is not super knowledgeable.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
But she has always been faithful.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Calling us young people, and keeping us accountable,。
and praying for us.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Without her, then I would not be able to enter ministry.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Without her leadership, without her servanthood,。
I would not be the person that I am now.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So thank God that God raised women and men equally。
to serve in his kingdom.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So in the same way, our church is moving forward, right?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Whether you're new, whether you're first time,。
whether you've been here for a long, long time.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
God is calling all of us, each and every one of us.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And calling us to co-work together,。
to build up his church, and to advance his kingdom.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And of course, men and women.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Well, shall we pray together?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Dear Heavenly Father, we want to give you thanks.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Because you raise up men and women for your kingdom.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And you use men and women for your work.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And at this moment, we pray that you。
will call each and every one of us.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Call us to use our gifts.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Use our resources.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Use our lives.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
To serve you.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
In Jesus' name, we pray.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Amen.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
