Good morning family. I'm excited that we get to be together again and open God's Word again today.。
We're continuing on in Matthew chapter 7, the end part of the Sermon on the Mount here.。
And today we're going to be looking at verses 21 to 23. So let's read these together.。
"Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of heaven,。
but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.。
On that day many will say to me, 'Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name。
and do many mighty works in your name?' And then I will declare to them,。
'I never knew you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.'"。
These are some really good verses but really challenging verses, really scary verses.。
Jesus is showing us that not everyone who thinks they know God actually does know God.。
And that's what we're going to talk about today, how we can know that we know Jesus。
and know that we have a genuine and authentic relationship with Him.。
And I'm going to remind us that in this part of the Sermon on the Mount,。
Jesus is wrapping up the Sermon on the Mount and He's giving us words of application.。
We've been talking about that the past few weeks.。
And so this is an important application to our own hearts.。
And in this passage, Jesus is shifting the focus from evaluating others to evaluating ourselves.。
If you remember the verses that we read last week and the message that we talked about last week,。
Jesus was talking about evaluating false prophets or false teachers。
and how we could evaluate their lives and their teaching to discern。
if it's something that we should allow to influence us.。
And these verses are the verses that immediately follow the passage we read last week.。
It's definitely related, but Jesus is shifting the focus.。
He's encouraging us now to evaluate ourselves, to evaluate our own hearts。
and think about our own relationship to God and our own standing in the kingdom of God.。
And Jesus is teaching us that kingdom values are not simply about good works.。
We've been talking about kingdom values for almost a year now.。
We've been in this study and it's been really good.。
But one of the things I want us to see and see very clearly as we discuss this passage today。
is that kingdom values are not just a list of do's and don'ts.。
That to be a follower of Jesus, we just have to check the boxes and do the right stuff。
and stay away from the wrong stuff. That's not what kingdom values are about.。
We can get that idea sometimes because as humans, we want to make our faith into a ritualistic religion.。
It's just a part of human nature. All of us want to do that.。
We gain security and a feeling of safety if we feel like we know exactly what we're supposed to do。
and we're doing it. And so we always try to do that.。
We see that everywhere in the world in religion.。
We see people trying to make it about works and doing good things and checking boxes and keeping the list.。
And we just want to do that.。
But Jesus is showing us here that that's not what kingdom values are about。
and that's not what a relationship with God is about.。
And I want to remind us here that Jesus, as he's speaking in the Sermon on the Mount,。
he's speaking to a very diverse crowd like we talked about when we began this study.。
But he's speaking to a lot of people that are very devout.。
So Jesus is speaking to religious people, people who are serious about their faith。
and serious about following God.。
And many of these people would have been Jewish people who were trying to please God。
through the system of the Old Testament law.。
And we know that some of the Pharisees would have been in this crowd。
and the Pharisees had created this works-based religion.。
But it was not true to God's faith that was revealed in the Old Testament.。
That's one of the interesting things.。
If you go back and look at the Old Testament, you see that God, even in the Old Testament,。
was calling people into relationship with him.。
The men and women who were heroes of the faith in the Old Testament。
are men and women who walked with God and who had a relationship with him and who trusted him.。
You can see that.。
Look at their lives and read about their stories.。
They are pointed to in the Old Testament because they knew God and had a relationship with him,。
not because they checked all the boxes and kept a list of good works and bad works.。
They were obviously righteous people that honored God and loved him and followed him。
and they did good things.。
But that was not the reason that Scripture points to their lives in the Old Testament.。
So even in the Old Testament, God is calling us into relationship to him.。
But by the time Jesus was on the earth, many people misunderstood that.。
The Pharisees had twisted the Old Testament law into this works-based religion.。
So a lot of Jesus' listeners in the Sermon on the Mount were coming from that paradigm。
of a really works-based religion.。
They were very serious, they were very devout, but they were very focused on good works.。
Jesus is pointing out to them that being his follower, living in the kingdom of God,。
being a Christian, is not about a works-based religion.。
It's about a relationship with God and ultimately with Jesus.。
And it comes through the work that Jesus was here on earth to do.。
And we're going to talk about that today.。
But I want to point us to this truth first.。
I want us to consider this, that following Jesus is not simply a matter of correct understanding。
about truth or correct doctrine or correct thinking.。
It's not simply a matter of correct understanding.。
Now that's important for us to get.。
Understanding is important.。
We need to have a correct understanding of truth.。
In fact, you can't know Jesus without a correct understanding of truth,。
of the truth of who he is and why he came to the earth.。
You can't know him.。
But here's the thing that we need to understand.。
You can have a correct understanding of who Jesus was and of the truth about Jesus。
and still not know Jesus.。
And that's really significant.。
We need to see that here.。
We don't know Jesus simply because we're orthodox in understanding of truth or doctrine.。
That's not what brings us into salvation.。
That's not what brings us into relationship with God.。
And Jesus is pointing us to that here in verse 21.。
He says, "Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of heaven,。
but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven."。
Jesus is referring to people who are acknowledging that he is Lord.。
These are not people who don't believe in Jesus.。
These are not people who don't believe that he existed or that he was the Son of God.。
These are people who have a correct understanding.。
And Jesus is saying there are people who will have a correct understanding.。
They will understand that he is Lord.。
They will understand that he is God, but they still will not fully believe。
and will not actually know God.。
They will understand things correctly, but not know God.。
And Jesus is pointing us to that.。
Romans 10, 9, which is a really important verse about salvation,。
tells us how we enter the kingdom of God, how we enter into relationship with God.。
It says this, "If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord。
and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved."。
And there are two really important factors in that verse.。
We have to understand it.。
We have to understand the truth about Jesus, that he's the Lord, that he's the Savior,。
that his death on the cross paid the penalty for our sins.。
We have to understand that.。
But we have to go beyond simply understanding it,。
simply giving it mental assent and saying, "Yeah, I can assent to the fact that that is true."。
And we have to believe it.。
We have to put our trust in that truth and in that reality.。
And that's what Jesus is pointing us to here in verse 21.。
He's saying there are people who will understand that I'm the Lord.。
They will understand who they are before me, but they are not believing it.。
They are not putting their trust in it.。
And because of that, they don't actually know me.。
There's a verse in James 2 where James is talking about our works。
and the relationship between our faith and our works.。
And he says this really interesting thing.。
He says in verse 19, "You believe that God is one, you do well, even the demons believe and shudder."。
And what's James saying in that verse?。
He's saying, "Hey, if you believe correctly about who God is, that's great.。
But that doesn't mean you have a relationship with God just because you understand the correct nature of who God is."。
He says, "Even the demons know who God is.。
They tremble. They are afraid of God because they know exactly who He is.。
They know exactly how powerful God is.。
They have a correct understanding of who God is and who Jesus is as the Son of God。
and of the power of God and of the sovereignty of God in the universe.。
They understand that, but they don't have a relationship with God.。
Obviously, they are full of evil works and full of terrible things.。
And that's a really important thing for us to see.。
Because sometimes in the church, we think, "Well, I'm pretty sure I know Jesus.。
I know God because I understand some things about God.。
I know some of the truth. I know some of the right doctrine.。
I have an orthodox understanding of who God is."。
But Jesus is telling us here that it's not just enough to have a right and correct understanding.。
That we need to have belief and trust in Jesus, and we need to have relationship with God.。
Another way that helps me think about this is if you think about the difference between knowing about someone and actually knowing them.。
You can think about someone that you admire, maybe a famous person that you admire in our world.。
Maybe it's a celebrity, maybe it's an athlete or a musician or someone who's in the movies.。
Or perhaps it's someone who is some famous intellectual or an author that's written books that you love.。
But think about someone that you admire in our world.。
You may know a lot about that person.。
You may know when they were born.。
You may know something about their personal life.。
Maybe you've read on Wikipedia about them or from other sources.。
And so you know something about their marriage or their family or when their birthday is.。
You may know all kinds of things about that person.。
And if you're in a conversation with someone else, you may be able to tell those things.。
Say, "Yeah, this person, they were born here and they grew up here and they spent five years in this place.。
This is where they went to college."。
You may even give the impression to someone else in a conversation that you know that person because you have so much information about them.。
But that doesn't mean you know them.。
That doesn't mean that if they were walking down the sidewalk and you saw them, that you could go up to them and say,。
"Hey, it's great to see you," and that they would have a conversation with you like a friend.。
Because you can know all kinds of things about someone but not actually know them and have relationship with them.。
And I think that's a helpful illustration of what Jesus is saying to us in this verse.。
He's saying it's not enough just to know about God.。
Even if you know the right stuff, even if you have a correct understanding of who God is and who Jesus is, that's not enough.。
He needs to go beyond that to belief and to trust.。
And if you want to be sure that you know Jesus, then you have to do more than just know about God and have a correct understanding.。
You need to have your trust in Him.。
You need to be believing in Him for salvation.。
The next thing I want us to see is that following Jesus is not simply a matter of doing good works.。
And this is so important. This is hugely important.。
In verse 22, Jesus says, "On that day many will say to me, 'Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many, many works in your name?'。
Then I will declare to them, 'I never knew you; depart from me.'"。
The people in verse 22 are people who had done some really good works.。
And they said that they'd even done those works in the name of Jesus.。
But Jesus says that they don't know Him.。
And we have to understand that. We have to wrap our minds around that.。
And the church, as followers of Jesus, as people who are trying to live out the values of the kingdom, we have to understand。
that following Jesus is not simply a matter of doing good works.。
We don't know Jesus because of the good things that we do.。
And that's really important for us to understand.。
As I said earlier, it's so easy for us as humans, as a part of our nature, to try to make our faith about some type of system of good works.。
And about a checklist and about things that we can see and tangibly do.。
And say, "I know I'm right with God. I know it's okay because I can see it.。
And I tangibly did this. And I tangibly did that. And that makes me feel good."。
And that's not the basis of our salvation in Christ.。
It is not through our works or through our efforts or through our performance or through anything that we do.。
That is not how we know God.。
And Jesus is pointing us so clearly to that right here in this passage.。
And this is important for us to understand, especially in our modern day.。
Especially for young people in the world that we live in.。
There is so much focus on doing the right thing on morality in our world.。
And that's a good thing because we want to be right before God.。
We want to do what's right.。
As followers of Jesus, that's an important focus for us to have.。
But often, the emphasis that our world gives us, especially for younger people,。
is on doing the right thing, advocating for the right causes, volunteering in the right places, being a part of these things.。
And that if we do that, then that makes us a good person.。
And we can feel like everything is okay.。
Now those things are morally therapeutic.。
And what I mean by that is they make us feel good morally.。
They make us feel like, "Yeah, I am a good person. I volunteered and I helped someone else.。
I am a good person. I advocated for this cause."。
Or, "I am a good person because I went to this protest or I was a part of this event."。
Or, "I tried to help in this way."。
Those things are morally therapeutic. They make us feel good.。
But they do not mean that we know Jesus.。
And they do not get us into heaven.。
And we need to understand that.。
Jesus is describing people in this verse that have done not just small works, but amazing good works.。
And said they were doing them in His name.。
These people said they had prophesied.。
They had spoken words from God about the world around them in the name of Jesus.。
They said they had cast out demons.。
They had done supernatural miracles in the name of Jesus.。
And many mighty works.。
They said, "We have done this big, huge, difficult, hard, supernatural, amazing things in your name.。
That is why you should let us into heaven.。
That is why you should believe that we know you.。
That is why we should be okay with you, Jesus.。
Because we have done all this mighty stuff in your name."。
And Jesus says, "I do not know you."。
That is one of the powerful and deeply challenging things about being a follower of Jesus.。
And about the ethics of being a Christian.。
The ethics of the values of the kingdom.。
Is that in Christian ethics, God calls us to do the right thing.。
And to do it for the right reason.。
And that stands apart from other moral systems in our world.。
Other religions and other moral systems say, "As long as you do the right thing, you are okay."。
If you give to the poor, then you did a good work.。
You gave to the poor and that is all you need to do.。
It is fine if you give to the poor out of a selfish motivation because you are trying to look good in front of other people.。
Or if you give to the poor out of a selfish motivation because you want to gain something from it.。
That is okay. You did the good work and that is all you need to do.。
But our faith, the values of the kingdom say, "No, you have to do the right thing and do it for the right reasons."。
In 1 Corinthians 13, Paul talks about doing good works.。
And he talks about the fact that if we are not motivated by the love of Christ and the love of God,。
then those good works are ultimately in vain.。
That they do not have the meaning that we think they do.。
They do not have the significance that we think they do.。
He says that they are just like banging cymbals together.。
They are just like making a bunch of noise.。
But they are not actually having any deeper significance.。
And that is because God is calling us to do the right thing with the right motivation.。
God is calling us to do something that is coming out of our relationship to Him.。
Not because we are trying to prove our relationship to Him.。
Not because we are trying to gain a relationship to Him.。
Not because we are trying to please God in some way.。
But God is calling us to do good works that are an overflow of our relationship to Him.。
Now good works are really important.。
Obviously, the values of the kingdom matter.。
We have been talking about them for a long time.。
So they are very important.。
And we want to walk in them and we want to live them.。
But we want to walk in them and live them for the right reason.。
We do not want to walk in them and live them because we are trying to prove that we are right with God.。
And we are trying to earn salvation.。
We want to walk in them and live with them because they are an evidence of God's salvation.。
They are an evidence of what God is already doing in our life.。
And they are an overflow of that change that God is bringing about.。
We do good works because we are saved.。
Not in order to be saved.。
And we need to understand that as followers of Jesus.。
That is clear in this verse.。
If we think we are doing good things in order to be right with God,。
then we are missing the point and we are not right with God.。
But if we are doing good things because we are right with God,。
because Jesus saved us and redeemed us,。
and those good things are an overflow of that relationship,。
that is the place God wants us to be.。
And I want to say this.。
You cannot know Jesus without doing good works.。
The verses we read last week make that clear.。
That if you know Jesus, if you are a genuine follower,。
and you genuinely love Him,。
then good works are going to come.。
You cannot know Jesus without doing good works.。
But you can do good works without knowing Jesus.。
And that is really important for us to understand.。
Just like the matter of correct understanding.。
You cannot know Jesus without a correct understanding of who He is.。
But you can have a correct understanding and not know Him.。
The same is true in our actions.。
If we know Jesus, we are going to please Him with our lives.。
It is going to happen.。
He is going to work in our hearts and change us,。
and we are going to do things that are pleasing to Him.。
But we can do things that look good and not know Him.。
And that is what verse 22 is telling us.。
So if following Jesus is not just about a correct understanding and doing good works,。
then what is following Jesus about?。
How do we know that we know Jesus?。
Well, the Bible is clear.。
It is much more simple than we can imagine.。
Following Jesus is simply a matter of trust in the forgiveness and grace of the cross.。
Salvation is by grace alone through faith alone.。
What I mean by that is it is by grace alone.。
We do not deserve it.。
We do not earn it in any way.。
It is an unmerited gift that God gives to us in His grace and love for us.。
And it is by faith alone.。
Because we do not grab hold of it by anything that we do.。
We simply trust in the sacrifice that Jesus gave on the cross.。
We trust in the fact that God loved us.。
That Jesus came into our world because of that love for us.。
That God wanted a relationship with us.。
That Jesus came into our world because of God's desire for a relationship with us.。
And that Jesus lived a perfect life, did not sin, and because of His perfection,。
He was able to give His life in our place as our substitute on the cross as a perfect sacrifice.。
And that because of what He did in our place as our substitute,。
that all of our sins can be forgiven by God.。
That God placed His justice and His wrath on Jesus on the cross.。
The stuff that we deserve, Jesus took it in our place.。
And because of that, we can experience complete forgiveness,。
complete healing and freedom from sin.。
That is the good news of the gospel.。
And we believe that by faith.。
We do not grab hold of it by our good works or by anything else we do.。
We believe it by faith.。
We say, "God, I trust You that that is why I have a relationship with You."。
Because of what Jesus did, not because of anything that I do.。
We know Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, it talks about it's not our works.。
It's not anything that any of us have done.。
It's not anything that any of us can brag about or boast about.。
It's because of Jesus and His gift of giving His life for us on the cross.。
Following Jesus is simply a matter of trust in the forgiveness and grace of the cross.。
That's how we come to salvation.。
That's how we begin relationship with God.。
And if you've never done that, then that is open to you at any time, at any moment.。
Even right now, you can begin that relationship with God。
through believing that Jesus is who He says He is.。
Having the correct understanding, but then putting your trust in it and saying,。
"God, I believe it's true. I believe that Your forgiveness covers me.。
I believe that Your grace covers me."。
It's as simple as that.。
But what about our life in Christ?。
After we begin that relationship and we're saying,。
"Okay, I'm a Christian and I'm trying to live out the values of the kingdom.。
I'm trying to follow Jesus."。
Well, even then, following Jesus is simply a matter of a relationship to God.。
We see that in Galatians 2, 20.。
It says, "I have been crucified with Christ.。
It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me.。
And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God。
who loved me and gave Himself for me."。
That verse is clear that even after we know Jesus and we walk in a relationship with Him,。
the life that we live is Him living through us.。
It's that relationship with Him.。
John 15 talks about abiding in Christ.。
Verse 4 says that we abide in Him and as we do, we bear fruit.。
So those things that we talked about last week, the fruit, the good works that come out of our life,。
they are important.。
But they come from Jesus working through us.。
They come from us living in relationship with Him.。
Not us trying harder or us figuring out more stuff。
or us coming up with a way to be a better person or us rehabbing ourselves.。
They come from God doing work in our life to transform us and to live His life through us.。
And the New Testament is clear.。
God gives the Holy Spirit to every believer.。
When we come into relationship with God, the Holy Spirit comes into our life and is present with us.。
And the Holy Spirit teaches us and empowers us to begin to become like Christ。
and to begin to live in the way that Jesus wants us to.。
Through that relationship with Him.。
Unlike any other relationship in our life, we can't neglect it.。
We have to give it time and attention and focus.。
That's why I always talk about giving our time to God and time in prayer,。
time in God's Word, time in worship and doing that every day.。
That's something that we have to give time to for that relationship to be healthy and flourish.。
But as we give ourselves to that and as God begins to work in our life。
and that relationship is healthy, that's how we begin to live out the values of the Kingdom。
and to be obedient to Christ.。
Ultimately, following Jesus is simply a matter of surrender to God's work in me and through me.。
It's simply a matter of surrendering to God's work in me and through me.。
2 Corinthians 5, 17 and 18 says this,。
"Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation.。
The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.。
All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself。
and gave us the ministry of reconciliation."。
The work of Jesus after we come to salvation, after we begin relationship with God,。
the work of Jesus is to make a new creation in us。
for the old selfish desires and parts of us to pass away。
and to be replaced with love and service to others.。
And that's what God is doing.。
So yes, good works, Kingdom values, they're very, very important.。
But they come as a result of the work that Jesus does in us.。
And we have to surrender to that work and say, "Okay, God, I want you to be at work in my heart."。
And at times it may be difficult.。
At times it may be hard to let go of those selfish desires.。
At times it may be hard to not just seek what I feel like is best for me.。
It may be hard to obey you.。
It may be hard to be counter-cultural and go against the grain of what everybody else is doing.。
Like we talked about a few weeks ago when we talked about the narrow path.。
Those things are not easy, but as we surrender to them,。
God works in our life and makes something new and something beautiful。
and something that is conformed to the image of Christ, we become more like Jesus.。
And those good works and those Kingdom values start to flow out of our life.。
Galatians chapter 3, the beginning of the chapter, Paul says this,。
"O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you?。
It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified.。
Let me ask you only this, did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith?。
Are you so foolish, having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?"。
What Paul is saying in that chapter is saying, "Listen, you were saved through your faith,。
by the grace of God, and now that you're in relationship with God,。
do you think suddenly it's about your works and that you're going to become pleasing to God。
through learning it and through trying hard and through keeping the law?"。
Apparently the Galatian church had gotten confused about that,。
and Paul is calling them back and saying, "Look, you got saved by the grace of God。
and through faith in that grace.。
And you continue in your relationship with God by the grace of God。
and through surrendering to the work of God in your life, not through your own effort."。
And we need to understand that as well, that we know Jesus through grace。
and we live as followers of Jesus and we live out the kingdom of values through grace。
and through surrendering to the work of God in our life, not through our own effort.。
So how do we know that we know Jesus? How do we know those things?。
I would point us to a couple questions here as we close。
and call us to evaluate ourselves like Jesus does in these verses.。
It's scary to think about the fact that there are going to be people who think they know God,。
but they don't, and they don't find out until this day that Jesus speaks of.。
And we obviously don't want to be in that position.。
And so I would encourage us to ask ourselves, "What is our faith or our confidence based on?"。
If someone were to ask you, if I were to ask you right now,。
"How do you know that you're going to be in heaven?。
How do you know that you are in relationship with God?。
How do you know that you're in the family of God? How do you know that you belong to Jesus?"。
What would your answer be?。
If your answer is something like, "Well, I'm a good person. I've done good things.。
I've gone to church a lot. I know a lot about the Bible. I know a lot about truth.。
I know a lot about church and I know a lot of Christian songs and I do good stuff."。
If that's what you would answer, then your confidence is in the wrong place.。
Your faith is ultimately in yourself and in your understanding and in your works.。
And that's a misplaced confidence. That's a misplaced faith.。
The only answer we have to how we know that we're in relationship with God。
and how we know that we'll be in heaven someday is because of the grace of Jesus。
and what He's done for us.。
And the same question goes for our growth in Christ.。
How do we know that we're growing in Christ?。
And how do we know that God is at work in our life?。
Is it based upon, "Well, I'm doing all this good stuff and I'm doing better than other people。
and I feel like I'm a pretty good person and here's the things that I do that are good."。
Hey, all those good works are great.。
But if that growth is not based upon the work that God is doing in your heart,。
then it's ultimately in vain like Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians 13.。
It's based on the fact that you are trusting in the work of Christ in your life.。
You're trusting in God's work to renew you, to change you.。
You're being empowered by the Holy Spirit to live out the values of the kingdom。
in a way that you couldn't on your own.。
Then that's a solid foundation.。
But if your confidence is in yourself for your growth in Christ, then that's misplaced.。
If you're just trying to check boxes and keep lists and do all the good things。
so that you can be a good Christian, if you're just trying to keep the law in some way,。
then that's misplaced.。
Our salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, and our growth and our relationship to God。
is through surrender to His work in our life.。
And we need to know that and we need to continue to point ourselves to it.。
Even if you've known Jesus for a long time,。
you can begin to slowly turn back towards doing good things。
and towards walking in the law and towards trying to keep the checklists.。
And we need to constantly be pointed towards the fact that it is only through Christ。
that we know God, it's only through Christ that we are changed and that we grow in knowing Him.。
And that's how we know, that we know Jesus.。
If we're confident and trusting in the work of Jesus in our heart,。
we're going to have a relationship to Him and for growth。
and for living out the values of the kingdom。
and for the good works that God wants to do in our life.。
Let's pray.。
God, thank You for Your truth.。
Thank You for the way it challenges us and points out our weaknesses。
and points out the wrong things that we're tempted to believe.。
And God, I pray that You would help us to be careful that we're not trusting in ourselves。
and that we're not trusting in our relationship to You,。
that we're not trusting in just what we know about You or our understanding of the truth,。
that we're not trusting in the good works that we feel like we've done.。
God, help us to make sure that we are trusting in You and You alone。
and that we understand it's nothing that we could do to gain salvation.。
It's by Your grace alone and it's through our faith and trust in what You've done alone.。
God, we live in relationship with You and as we have a desire to live out the values of the kingdom,。
which is a good and beautiful desire,。
help us not to try to make that happen in our own strength。
and help us not to try to live out good works through our own effort,。
but help us to try to be surrendered to You and to allow You to work in our hearts。
so that You can bring to pass the works that are truly honoring to You。
so that You can bring kingdom values out of our lives,。
so that they literally overflow from our lives into the lives of the people around us, God.。
God, may we know that we know You and may we live for You in a way that glorifies You。
and in a way that loves others.。
In Jesus' name, Amen.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
