I'm really blessed to be here and excited to see friendly faces, and it's。
it's a blessing, it's encouragement to my heart. It's really cool to be in this。
room with you all again, and just during the time of worship, just thinking about。
all of the time that we've had in this room in the past of worshipping the Lord。
together and fellowshipping and sharing meals and and even playing games in。
times of just fun and joy, and it was just bringing to my mind the beauty。
of the family of God and of the community and the fellowship that we。
share, and so it really is good to be here again in this room with you all and。
and to fellowship and to worship together again. That's a beautiful thing.。
I'm blessed to be here this morning, and it's like being back with family, which。
is really a really a good thing. This morning we're gonna be looking in。
Matthew chapter 10, and we're gonna be talking about generosity, and I had。
started this series a month or so ago about our response to God's goodness in。
our lives, and so this is a part of that series, and we have, we're kind of。
picking up where we left off. It's been a few weeks since we talked about this,。
but it's fine because each one of these topics really stands well on their own,。
and there is so much of God's goodness in our lives, so much more even than we。
see or identify a lot of times, and God wants us to respond to Him in response。
to that goodness that He pours into our lives, and so the first few weeks。
that we talked about this, we talked about the response of gratefulness, how。
important it is for us to be grateful for God's goodness in our life, how。
that's a response. Then we talked about repentance and how important it is for。
us to respond to God's goodness with repentance and aligning our lives with。
God's righteousness and with what God is doing in our hearts and our。
lives and in our world, and then we talked about faith. We talked about the。
fact that our response to God's goodness should be one of faith and that God's。
goodness in our lives gives us an archive of testimony that we can go to。
again and again in times of uncertainty or times of challenge and have faith。
because we see how good God has been in our lives, and today we're going to talk。
about generosity, that one of the responses that we should have to God's。
goodness in our life is generosity and beginning to give to others. So we're。
going to look at verse 8 of chapter 10 here, and I'll read this。
verse and we'll talk briefly about the context. The verse says this, "Heal the。
sick, raise the dead, cleanse those who have leprosy, drive out demons, freely。
you have received, freely give," and this is Jesus speaking here, and the context。
of this passage, Jesus is speaking to his disciples and he's sending them out in。
this passage, he's sending them out on kind of the first church mission trip。
that ever took place. It wasn't the first mission trip, undoubtedly. God's。
mission has been in the world since the beginning, but this was the first。
instance of a mission trip of Jesus' followers. So Jesus is sending them out。
in Matthew chapter 10. He's giving them all these different instructions and。
that's the context of these words. And in verse 8 here, he reminds them that they。
should freely give to others as a response to what God has given to them.。
And that's the principle I want us to think about today, that God has been so。
good to us in so many different ways and out of that we should have a response of。
giving to others. We should have a response of generosity. Another way that。
this is phrased in some different translations is it says, "You didn't。
pay for this. You did not receive the grace of God through payment, so don't。
ask anyone else for that. Be willing to give freely because you have received。
this freely." And as we talk about generosity today, I want us to think。
about it in a few different ways. Obviously there's generosity in giving。
with our material resources or our finances. That's probably the one that we。
think of the most when we hear the word generosity. We think of giving gifts to。
someone else, some material item, wrapping a present for someone or we think of。
giving money or something like that. And that's certainly an application of。
generosity and one of the applications that we're talking about。
today. But more than that, there are also applications of just our time and energy。
giving our time and energy, our presence to other people, but also giving of our。
skills and talents and abilities. God has given each one of us unique skills and。
talents and abilities that we can use to glorify him and we're to be generous。
with those as well. We're to be generous in giving those things away to others as。
well. So when we talk about generosity today, I want us to think about it in all。
of those ways, not just in terms of our money or our finances, but in terms of。
our time, our energy, our presence, and also the talents, the skills, the。
abilities that God has given us, that God has uniquely gifted us with. And we could。
also think of it in terms of giving grace and forgiveness to others. That's。
one of the most precious gifts that God has given to us. And that's something。
that it's tough sometimes for us to be generous with. It's easier for us to。
give away some money to someone than it is for us to forgive someone who's。
wronged us. And so we have to think about generosity in those terms as well. That。
when Jesus says, "Freely you have received and I want you to freely give," one of the。
things that we have received is forgiveness and grace and mercy from God.。
And that's one of the things that he's challenging us to give to others. So。
we're gonna go through just some points about what generosity should look。
like in our lives as followers of Jesus, and I'm going to illustrate most of。
these from Scripture, from other Scripture passages that illustrate these。
well to us and show us what it looks like. And we'll move through some of。
these. We probably won't get through all of them today, but these are just to give us,。
begin to give us a picture of what generosity should look like in our lives。
as a follower of Jesus, and also to help maybe remove some of the misconceptions。
or perhaps excuses that we might have when it comes to being generous and when。
it comes to giving away. So the first thing I want us to see is that our。
generosity is really a response to God's overwhelming goodness in our lives, and。
that's what we see right here in Matthew 10:8, that Jesus is saying, "Your。
generosity needs to be motivated by what God has done for you." And that's really。
important for us to understand. We'll see that as we look at some of the other。
passages of Scripture today, but if we're trying to give for other reasons, if。
we're trying to give in order to look good in front of other people or in。
order to somehow make ourselves feel better or in order to give ourselves a。
reputation or any of those other reasons, that's ultimately going to be something。
that's self-defeating. It's not going to accomplish the purpose of glorifying God。
and of loving others in our lives very well, because it's selfish. It's。
focused on ourselves, and so our giving really needs to be motivated by God's。
goodness in our lives, and as we see what God has done for us, we respond to that.。
We're able to give with the right heart, a heart that gives freely and。
gives with a motivation to glorify God. The next thing I want us to see is that。
our generosity is not dependent on our own abundance or lack, and this is。
important for us to think about. I know in my own life, that's one of the most。
simple excuses that I often find to not give to someone else, and as I said,。
whether I'm talking about giving my money or some material possession or if。
I'm talking about giving some of my time or some of my energy into a。
relationship or some of my presence in someone else's life or giving。
forgiveness or giving some of my skills and talents, one of the easiest。
excuses for me is to say, "Well, I don't really have that much. I can't。
really give into this because I don't have that much. I don't have that much。
material resources to give or I'm kind of tired right now and so I don't feel。
like I have the energy to give or I don't want to give of my skill because。
I'm not that skilled in that area." Obviously, there are limitations that we。
all have in terms of time and our resources, and so I understand that, but。
at the same time, we have to understand that God is more interested in our heart。
than He is in our resources. We see this illustrated really well in the。
story that's in Mark chapter 12. This is verses 41 to 44, and I'll read these to。
you. It says, "And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the people putting。
money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large sums, and a poor。
widow came and put in two small copper coins which make a penny. And he called。
his disciples to him and said to them, 'Truly I say to you, this poor widow has。
put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering box, for。
they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty has。
put in everything she had, all she had to live on.'" And this is Jesus who's telling。
His disciples that she's given more than anyone else because she's given out of。
her poverty and she's given with a genuine and sincere heart. And that。
story is really a powerful reminder to us that we may look at our life and say,。
"Well, I don't have a lot to give right now. I don't have a lot of material。
resources to give, or I don't have a lot of extra time, or I'm not really。
skilled in that area." You know, someone has a need in their life that's kind of。
in a specific area, and that's not something I'm good at. It's not so much。
about what you have or don't have. It's not about your abundance or your lack.。
It's really about your heart and are you gonna respond to God with a heart that。
is genuine and that says, "You know what? I want to love someone else. I。
want to help. I want to serve. I want to be a part of what God is doing, and I'm。
doing that because of God's goodness in my own life." And if you respond in that。
way, then whatever you have to give will, it'll count. It'll be a blessing.。
It'll help someone else. It will be something that honors and glorifies God.。
And that's really clear in this passage. So don't let that stop you.。
Don't say, "Well, I don't really have a lot right now." Or another version of that。
that I've used a lot in my life is sometimes I've said, "Well, I'd love to。
give in this area, but I'm gonna wait until I get more in this area of my life。
or in some other part of my life, and then I'll feel free to give." And again, a。
lot of times that's just an excuse. I've been there myself where then I've。
gotten to that point that I wanted to be at in terms of resources or in。
terms of time, and then I still didn't give. So don't let your feelings of。
saying, "I don't have enough," keep you from giving. Begin to give, and if you。
don't have much to give, that's fine. This lady in the story Jesus told,。
this poor widow, gave very little. What she gave wasn't going to be noticed by。
anyone in terms of the amount, but it wasn't the amount that was significant.。
It was her heart and the fact that she was giving with the right heart. Another。
thing that's very simple but it's really clear in Scripture is that our。
generosity as followers of Jesus, if we have generosity, if we freely give with a。
right heart in response to God's goodness, that generosity leads to reward.。
And this principle is throughout Scripture. There's a couple verses in the。
Old Testament that are real clear about this. Psalms 112 5 says, "It is well with。
the man who deals generously and lends who conducts his affairs with justice."。
Proverbs 22 9 says, "The generous will themselves be blessed, for they share。
their food with the poor." Now we don't give in order to get a reward.。
If that's our motivation, then as I said at the beginning, it's gonna end up。
being self-defeating. We're not gonna experience God's goodness and。
glorifying Him in the way we want to. But Scripture is clear. There is a reward if。
we will be generous with the right heart, if we'll care for others, if we will。
choose to give of our time and our energy and our presence and our。
giftedness and our resources with a right heart responding to God's work in。
our lives, then there will be a reward from that. God will bless us and give us。
peace and oftentimes give us provision. And I think that's significant. Sometimes。
in that first point that we discussed, we say, "I'm not sure I can do this right。
now because I don't have a whole lot." And sometimes we find ourselves。
finding out that as we begin to obey God and be generous in the way that He is。
putting on our heart, that God provides for us in another way and we have more。
than we thought. Whether it's resources or energy or even those talents and。
skills that God's gifted us with, we find out that God fills in what we。
perceive as lack in a lot of other ways when we just begin to be obedient in。
practicing generosity and in giving. And I want us to see as well that our。
generosity helps to break the hold of material possessions on our souls. And。
this is big. We live in a world that's a very material world. The things that are。
important to us that can really grab a hold of our focus and our。
attention and our time and our relationships, they're material things.。
And we're not supposed to be enslaved to material things. We're not. As followers。
of Jesus, we're supposed to have a heavenly perspective and see that the。
eternal things are more important than the material things. We're supposed to be。
able to see that people's lives and their relationship to God and our。
relationship to God is much more important than the things that we。
possess or the jobs that we have or the titles that go after our name. All that。
different material stuff. We're supposed to have a different perspective but it's。
easy to get caught up in everything going on around us in the world that we。
live in and to begin to have material things grab a hold of us and to begin to。
commit all of our time and our energy and those gifts that God has given us.。
Instead of using those gifts to glorify God and to give to others, we can end。
up just using those gifts to pursue material possessions and to pursue our。
own reputation, to pursue our own ambition, our own pride. And one of the。
beautiful things about obeying God and generosity is that it helps break that。
hold. We find ourselves saying, "I know I'm supposed to give but it's kind of hard。
because I want to keep this for myself." That's that hold the material possessions。
have on our soul or that earthly thinking and pride and ambition and。
things like that have on our soul. But as we begin to obey and to give, we find。
ourselves saying, "You know what? I guess that really wasn't as important as I。
thought it was and now that I'm giving it away, it's not holding on to me。
as much and I'm able to see that I didn't really need that as much as I。
thought in the first place or that thing I was pursuing in my life. It isn't as。
big of a deal as I thought it was." And it's important for us to give for。
that reason. In 1 Timothy 6 verses 17 and 19 it says this, "As for the rich in this。
present age, charge them not to be haughty," or that word means proud, "nor to。
set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God who richly provides。
us with everything to enjoy. They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be。
generous and ready to share, thus storing up treasures for themselves as a good。
foundation for the future so that they may take hold of that which is truly。
life." And in that passage, there's instructions being given to the church,。
to the body of Christ, and there's a whole lot of really good stuff in here.。
He's saying if you're a rich person in this present age, he means if you're rich。
in the world's goods and the common definition of what we would think of as。
wealth and rich. First of all, he doesn't say like if you're rich, you're evil and。
you have to burn all your stuff. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say it's。
sinful to have material possessions, but he says that it can be unhealthy and it。
can be sinful. So he says if you are one of these people that's wealthy in this。
present age, don't be proud or arrogant about it. Don't set your hope or your。
security or your sense of stability on those material possessions because。
obviously, as we know from other parts of Scripture, they can rot, they can be。
stolen, they can disappear. But he says to set your hope on God because God is the。
one who richly provides you with everything that you enjoy. If you have。
material possessions that you enjoy and you enjoy your games and your toys,。
whatever they are, if you're a young person, maybe they're Legos. If you're an。
adult, maybe it's a boat or a car or something like that. But if you have。
those things that you enjoy, if you have experiences that you enjoy, if God has。
blessed you in some way, you need to understand that God is the one who has。
provided you with everything that you enjoy anyway. And then in verse 18, he。
says you should do good and be rich in good works. You should have an abundance。
of good works, not just of material possessions, but have an abundance of。
works and actions that honor God. And it says be generous and ready to share. And。
as you do that, then you're storing up treasures for yourself as a good。
foundation for the future in verse 19. And then at the end of the verse 19, he。
says, so that they may take hold of that which is truly life. And I love that part。
of the verse. He's saying if you're just caught up in the material possessions。
and what they mean to you, you're not really living. And if you begin to obey。
God and being generous and in freely giving out of God's goodness, then you're。
gonna begin to truly experience life and experience joy and experience peace and。
actual real contentment. And all of these things that are gonna be really healthy。
and good for you come as you give. And it begins to break that hold of material。
possessions and material aspirations on your soul, and you begin to be free from。
those things. Another thing for us to see is that our generosity should not have。
strings attached. In 2nd Corinthians 9, it talks about giving. We'll look at these。
verses more a little bit later on, but in verse 7, it says, each one must give as。
he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God。
loves a cheerful giver. And we need to understand that when we decide to。
respond to God's goodness by giving, whether it's giving of our possessions。
or our time or whatever, we shouldn't do that with strings attached. If we're。
being obedient to God and giving to someone else, then we just need to give。
and not be worried about what follows. And a lot of times, even as followers of。
Jesus, as believers in Christ, we can give with strings attached. We can say, "Well,。
yeah, I feel like God's putting on my heart to give financially to someone。
else, but they don't use it in a way that I think is right. You know, I'm never。
giving to them again." Or we can say, "Yeah, I feel like God really wants me to give。
some of my time to this person in this relationship, and they're hurting and。
they're going through something, and I really know that God wants me to。
give and be generous with my time and my presence and my energy. But once I。
started doing that, you know, they didn't really respond how I wanted them to, and。
so I think I'm done with it. I don't want to give any more time to them." Or, "Yeah, I。
felt like God wanted me to give some of my talents, and I began to share。
those talents with people in my church or in my community, but no one really。
appreciated it the way I thought they were going to, and so I think I'm done。
giving." There are so many ways that we give with strings attached, and we don't。
always realize that, and that's not how we should give. If we're giving as a。
response to God's goodness, our only motivation is to honor God and to。
rejoice in what he's done for us, and it shouldn't matter how the gift is。
received or how it's used or whether we get praised or recognized for it. And I。
understand that all of us want that. I do too. That's normal. It's human nature. We。
want the gift to be used well. We want to be recognized for it. We want for it to。
be received well. I get that, but we have to learn to let go of that and say, "I'm。
just gonna give in response to God's work in my life. I'm gonna give in。
obedience to him. I'm gonna give because Jesus has freely given to me, and there。
are no strings attached, and if it goes great, then I'm gonna praise God and。
rejoice for that, and if people appreciate what I've done, then I'm gonna。
be grateful for that. But if no one seems to appreciate my gift or recognize it。
and it's not even received well, that's okay. I didn't give it to get。
something in return. I gave it out of obedience to God, and there are no。
strings attached. Another thing we should consider is that our generosity should。
align with kingdom values. Malachi 3.10 is a verse that talks a lot about giving,。
and this one that is quoted a lot. It says, "Bring the whole tithe into the。
storehouse that there may be food in my house. Test me in this, says the Lord。
Almighty, and see if I will not throw open the floodgates of heaven and pour。
out so much blessing that there will not be room enough to store it." That verse is。
a lot of times talked about in the context of giving so that God。
will give back to you, and that is a part of what is portrayed in this。
verse. But I just want us to think about the beginning of this verse. It says,。
"Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse." God is calling his people to。
give, but he's calling his people to give into his kingdom and into the work that。
he is doing, and I think that's important for us to consider as well. That if we。
say, "Okay, I want to give some of my material possessions or my time or my。
energy or I want to give some of my skills," we should ask ourselves, "How can。
I give those in a way that aligns with the values of the kingdom? How can I give。
those in a way that honors God and glorifies him and aligns with the work。
that he is doing in the world around me?" And sometimes you may say, "Well, I feel。
called to a certain place or a certain type of service. I feel called to be。
involved in a specific way," and that's great. And as you explore that, you may。
say, "Okay, there's some different- there's an organization that's a part of this。
that I could partner with or there's some other group that's doing。
this work that I could be a part of." And I think this is a great question for us。
to ask as we look at those opportunities to say, "Okay, well does this。
organization or this group or this movement, does it align with some of the。
values of the kingdom?" Because if not, then maybe it's not the place for us to。
invest and to practice obedience to God through generosity. We know we're。
supposed to be doing this. We know we're supposed to be giving. That's clear. But。
it is important where we give and what we're giving to and what we're。
partnering with and participating in. And one of the beautiful things is in most。
any kind of domain of culture, if there's something you want to be a part of that。
God puts on your heart, you'll probably be able to find a Christian group that's。
engaged in that area. A lot of the biggest relief organizations and things。
like that in the world, especially in the western part of the world, started out as。
Christian groups. So there's a whole lot of groups that you can find and say, "Hey,。
these people are doing good work and it aligns with the values of the kingdom。
and I can be a part of this." But sometimes, maybe not. Sometimes you say,。
"Okay, well this is the issue that God's put on my heart that I really want to。
give to financially or I want to give my time and energy to or my skills to." But。
there's not really anything in this space that aligns with kingdom values。
and some of the things going on in this space actually are a little bit in。
opposition to kingdom values. Well don't be afraid to let God draw you into that。
space and start something new and to say, "Hey, it's time for something to happen in。
this space that allows people to use their gifts and their generosity to。
glorify God and to point to Jesus at the same time and to align with the values。
of the kingdom." That might be a part of what God is doing in your heart and why。
God is stirring your generosity in the first place is maybe to meet a need that。
no one else is meeting or maybe to meet a need that people are responding。
to but no one is responding to it with the love of Christ and with the values。
of the kingdom. So I think that's a great question for us to consider as well as。
we think about generosity is how can we give our time and our energy and our。
resources in a way that really aligns with the value of the kingdom. And a。
similar one that's real clear in Scripture is that our generosity should。
be in Jesus's name. Mark 9 41 says this, "Truly I tell you, anyone who gives you a。
cup of water in my name because you belong to the Messiah will certainly not。
lose their reward." And I think that's powerful. Our generosity should be in the。
name of Jesus. That doesn't mean that everything we do we have to tell someone。
about Jesus or tell them, "Hey, this is in the name of Jesus," or obviously there's。
a lot of acts of generosity that God's gonna put before us and call us to and。
allow us to be a part of that we won't be able to share that and that's fine.。
But any time that we can, we should let people know that this is done in Jesus's。
name on one level or another. First of all because that glorifies God, but。
secondly because it gives people an opportunity to see that it's not just。
you out there being a good person and trying to do something great for someone。
else, but it's actually the love of Christ that's in you and that's at work。
causing you to care for someone else. And that gives the people who are a part of。
that generosity an opportunity to respond not just to you but to respond。
to the love of Christ and to say, "Oh wow, this impacted my life and it meant。
something to me and I see now that it's not just because this person gave to me。
because they're a cool person but it was because of Jesus." And what does。
that mean? What does it mean that Jesus would love me and that he would motivate。
someone I don't even know to give to me or to get involved in my life or to care。
for me in some way? It opens a door for other people to be connected with God。
and to hear the message of love and forgiveness and grace that Jesus has for。
them. And so I think anytime we can, we should practice our generosity in the。
name of Jesus. And then one more, we'll just do one more today and we'll finish。
up the rest in a future message because there's a lot of good stuff here about。
generosity, but our generosity should always be to glorify God and that's。
really important. In Peter, in the first chapter of 2nd Peter verses 2 and 3, it。
says, "This grace and peace be yours in abundance through the knowledge of God。
and of Jesus our Lord. His divine power has given us everything we need for a。
godly life through our knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and。
goodness." Peter's saying, "Hey, anything that you are able to do in response to。
God that is good for others, that's coming through the divine power of。
Christ anyway. So don't go out there and act like it's you. Don't go out there and。
do good works in your family or your community or in the lives of your。
friends or with other people and give them your time and energy and resources。
and then act like, 'Yeah, I'm just a great person. That's why I'm doing this.' It's。
not. It's not you. And if it is, if it's centered on you, then it's not gonna be。
healthy anyway. It's gonna end up hurting someone else or it's gonna end up。
hurting you. Do those things because God is the one who enables you to do it and。
give the glory to him. You know in Matthew 6, we talked about this when we。
did the Kingdom Values study during the pandemic, but the first four verses here。
Jesus says, "Be careful not to practice your righteousness in front of others to。
be seen by them. If you do, you will have no reward from your Father in heaven. So。
when you give to the needy, do not announce it with trumpets as the。
hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets to be honored by others.。
Truly I tell you, they have received their reward in full. But when you give。
to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing so。
that your giving may be in secret. Then your Father who sees what is done in。
secret will reward you." That's a Kingdom Value for generosity right。
there. Do it to honor God and to truly love your neighbor and don't let。
anybody see it. Don't let people know what you're doing. That's one of the best。
ways to love and serve and care for others and to give your time and to give。
your energy and to give your resources and to give of your skills and talents。
and abilities is in a way that's not gonna lead to you being recognized or。
you being put on some type of pedestal. Give in a way that God is glorified and。
that other people are truly empowered and enabled and that you don't end up。
being the hero of the story because you're not the hero of the story. Jesus。
is the hero of the story and we want to always practice our generosity in that。
way. There's a lot more. We'll talk about some of this in the future. I'll finish。
up this message talking about generosity. But generosity is such a powerful。
Kingdom Value. It's so clear in Scripture that our lives as followers of Jesus。
should be defined by it. That we should really be generous and overwhelmingly。
radically generous. And as we began discussing this morning, it's because God。
has been overwhelming and radically good to us. And we should respond to that。
goodness by freely giving to others. And we should ask God to really enable us。
and empower us to do it in the right way so that it honors him and it truly loves。
the people around us. Let's pray. God, we thank you first of all for how you have。
freely given to us. God, your grace and your forgiveness are things that we。
could never have earned and we could never have deserved. And yet you freely。
gave them to us. All of us have fallen short, have made mistakes, have sinned,。
have messed up. And yet through Christ, you wiped those things away. You cleaned。
up our past. You erased our sins and you opened the pathway to relationship with。
the God who created us and loved us. And that's the deepest wonder of the。
universe, but it's also the most amazing gift of the universe. And God, we have, if。
we are followers of Jesus, if we've entered into that relationship with you,。
then we have already received a gift that is really of unspeakable worth. We。
can't even begin to comprehend, much less communicate, how much worth is contained。
in the gift of grace and forgiveness. And so God, may we, out of response to that。
overwhelming goodness in our lives, may we begin to give to others freely. May we。
begin to lead lives that are defined by generosity and by a spirit that freely。
gives of our money, our material possessions, but also our time, our energy,。
our presence, our skills, our...。
