- Thank you, Kelly.。
Good morning, UV.。
It is good to be back here with you all,。
and I hope you guys get some time to enjoy the spring weather。
and just seeing different flowers blooming,。
the colors, there's like all around the streets.。
This is my favorite time of the year.。
Okay, this morning we're gonna continue with our series。
on Jesus' Sermon on the Mount.。
And today we're gonna look at this,。
okay, pursuing kingdom righteousness.。
But before that, let us pray together first.。
Heavenly Father, as we prepare to open up your word。
this morning, I just ask that your spirit。
will be in each and every one of our heart.。
As we receive your word being proclaimed,。
that your spirit will do your work in our hearts。
to transform us into people that represent your kingdom,。
into people of love, into people that the world。
will recognize that we belong to you.。
Because we know that your word is living and active.。
So allow your word to do the transforming work。
in our hearts.。
Father, I also ask that your Holy Spirit。
will be with me this morning as I preach your word。
that anything that is not from you,。
that you will take them away.。
And may your word and your word alone be proclaimed.。
I pray this in your son's name, amen.。
I don't know if there's the breathing voice。
coming through the mic, but hopefully that is not。
too distracting for you all.。
Okay, if you are a basketball fan,。
this time of the year is usually some of the most。
exciting time because the NBA playoff。
is actually happening right now.。
And most of the teams that are able to make it。
this far into the seasons are usually led by。
one or maybe two superstars.。
And so these matchups are usually pretty fun。
to watch as well.。
But what makes a great players like LeBron James。
or Micah Jordan or Steph Curry。
such a great basketball players?。
While there are many different positions。
on the basketball court, these are some of the。
common characteristics that makes someone。
a great NBA players.。
First, of course, there is the basketball skills.。
How well can they score?。
Or how well can they defend?。
Or how well can they make a play?。
And then there's also basketball IQ.。
How well do they understand the game?。
And are they able to read the opponents。
and respond accordingly?。
And of course, there's the work ethic。
and also attitude, both on and off the courts.。
And lastly, there's also some intangibles as well,。
like leaderships, versatility,。
or if they're able to make a clutch plays。
when a team needs them.。
So all of these are some of the basic characteristics。
that makes someone a good basketball players.。
But now if I ask, what makes someone a good Christian?。
How would you answer it?。
And how different do you think the answer would be。
if I ask non-believers these same questions?。
I'm currently in the running groups。
and we do a group run every Friday morning at 6.40.。
And usually when we do a group run,。
so you would just end up talking to the person。
right next to you, right, for probably like。
about 30 minutes.。
And usually when people find out that I'm a pastor,。
the first thing that they will usually mention to me。
is either, oh, I actually used to go to church growing up,。
but I just stopped going now.。
Or, hey, I actually went to church with a friend of mine。
over Easter or over Christmas.。
And if I ask them these questions,。
what do you guys think makes someone a good Christian?。
I'm fairly confident that a majority of them will say,。
okay, a good Christian is probably someone。
who goes to church regularly,。
because to them, going to church。
is some of the most basic activities。
that all Christian participate in.。
And when it comes to Jesus days,。
there were also a few activities。
that became sort of like the identity marker。
of a good and pious Jews,。
because these are some of the most basic religious duties。
that a Jewish person have to sort of like。
be responsible for.。
But in our passage today,。
we'll see how Jesus subverts the norms of his days。
on what makes someone a faithful or devout Jews.。
But before that, let's enjoy our passage。
in the larger context of the Sermon on the Mount.。
So in Jesus' Sermon on the Mount,。
there is three major section that sort of like。
made up the main content for this sermon.。
And in the first major section,。
that is in Matthew chapter five,。
we learn that the truly blessed life。
comes from having an intimate relationship。
with our heavenly father, true Jesus Christ,。
and following after Jesus' example。
to live in a way that embodies his kingdom righteousness.。
In this first section,。
Jesus focused on the true righteousness。
that exceeds that of the Pharisees。
and the teachers of the law.。
But in our section in Matthew chapter six today,。
Jesus continues with his teaching on righteousness.。
But this time, instead of focusing。
on the positive aspect of righteousness,。
Jesus is going to focus on the wrong kind of righteousness,。
false righteousness.。
Moreover, while the better righteousness。
in Matthew chapter five has to do with our relationship。
with each other, that is sort of like。
the horizontal aspect of our relationship,。
right here in Matthew chapter six,。
the righteousness that Jesus talks about。
has to do with our relationship with him.。
So the vertical relationship between us and between God.。
And as we'll see later in our passage,。
showing off one's personal devotion to God。
or one's personal righteousness has become an avenue。
where someone in Jesus' days can do this。
to gain respect from the community.。
Or they can do this to kind of like。
increase their social status.。
And so Jesus, specifically,。
he warns again these kind of righteousness,。
the performative righteousness,。
the wrong kind of righteousness for his followers.。
So let's look at our passage today in Matthew chapter six.。
So Matthew six begins like this, be careful.。
So Jesus doesn't waste any time。
and he gets straight to his point with this imperative。
or with this authoritative command,。
be careful or be aware.。
And when Jesus say, be careful, we need to pay attention.。
And so what is Jesus trying to warn us here about?。
He says, be careful not to practice your righteousness。
in front of others to be seen by them.。
If you do, you will have no reward。
from your father in heaven.。
So this verse right here, verse one,。
will serve as sort of like an overarching structure。
for our passage today.。
So let's break it down a little bit.。
So right here, there's four elements。
that Jesus will repeat on each of the examples。
that we'll be looking at today.。
So the first one is the action.。
So the action that Jesus talks about right here,。
the overarching actions is practicing righteousness.。
And what righteousness means is pretty much。
is how to live rightly before the Lord.。
And right here specifically,。
the emphasis is on our actions and on our deeds.。
And then the second element is the manner。
of practicing this righteousness.。
It is in front of other people.。
And then the third element, the motive,。
is to be seen and approved by other people as well.。
And then the final element, the consequences,。
Jesus say you will have no reward。
from your father in heaven.。
So right here, what Jesus is having an issue is。
with more specifically on the second and the third element,。
the manner and the motives。
in which we practice our righteousness.。
So with that in mind, this is the main idea。
that we'll be diving into today from our passage.。
A worldly disciple pursues right living。
for the applause of people.。
But a kingdom disciple pursues right living。
for the affirmation of the Father.。
So we'll look at this idea from the three different examples。
that Jesus has given.。
That is the first one, giving to the poor,。
second, praying, and then the third one, on fasting.。
And why these three examples specifically?。
Well, again, these are some of the most basic。
Jewish practice and religious activities。
that Jews can express their devotion to God.。
In other words, these three activities。
are the identity marker of a good Jewish person.。
If you check all of these off,。
that basically means you are a pretty decent Jew.。
And again, through these examples,。
Jesus is trying to show us that as a disciples of Jesus,。
as his kingdom disciples,。
we strive to live a holy and righteous life,。
not for the praise of other people,。
but to be seen by our heavenly Father alone.。
So let's take a look at each of these three examples today.。
And the first one is giving to the poor.。
So Matthew chapter six, verse two.。
So when you give to the needy,。
do not announce it with trumpets。
as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets.。
To be honored by others.。
Truly I tell you, they have received their reward in full.。
But when you give to the needy,。
do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing。
so that your giving may be in secret.。
Then your father who sees what is done in secret。
will reward you.。
So if you remember the four element here,。
the first one is the action, right?。
So the action that Jesus focused on here。
is giving to the poor.。
And then the manner that Jesus warns against。
is announcing it with trumpets as these hypocrites do。
in synagogues or on the streets.。
So a little background context on giving to the poor。
or almsgiving from the Bible.。
In the Old Testament, social justice。
is actually a pretty prominent themes all throughout,。
but especially in the prophets.。
And when it comes to the intertestamental period,。
that is the time between the Old Testament。
and the New Testament,。
giving to the poor has become a sign of religious piety.。
And so fast forward to Jesus days,。
giving to the poor has pretty much become synonymous。
with righteousness.。
And when people give,。
they don't usually give directly to the needy,。
but they give it through the synagogues.。
And so the synagogues,。
they will function like a social agency,。
similar to the charities or nonprofits。
that we're familiar today,。
like Salvation Army or World Vision,。
where this agency,。
they will collect the donation from the community。
and then distribute it to the poor。
in the community as well.。
So while this public display of generosity。
is a way to celebrate God's goodness。
and generosity towards his own people,。
the hypocrites, on the other hand,。
they will take this as an opportunity。
to show off their generosity。
so that they can receive praise from other people.。
Simply put, their motivation here。
is to simply be seen and be praised by other people.。
So what Jesus warns against here is this.。
When you give to the poor,。
don't draw attention to your acts of kindness。
and generosity like these hypocrites do.。
And the word hypocrite here will actually be mentioned。
in all three of our examples today as well.。
So I think it is worthwhile to spend a little time。
just to understand what Jesus is referring to.。
So this word originally referred to a stage players。
or an actor in a Greek theater。
who put on mask to play all these different roles。
in the play.。
And usually, they will put on mask。
to pretend to be someone that they are not, right?。
So by the time of the New Testament,。
these words started to take on a more negative connotation,。
referring to someone who pretends to be morally good。
or morally virtuous,。
but they're just being false and empty inside.。
Essentially, someone who is a moral actor.。
I'm sure we all are familiar with someone like that, right?。
Growing up in Malaysia,。
usually when there's a flood or a house that got burned down。
or some sort of natural disaster that happened,。
the local politicians will usually show up。
to provide some sort of assistance。
and aid to these people, right?。
Because that is part of their job,。
that they're being elected by the people。
to serve the people.。
However, most of the time, when the politicians show up,。
they don't just come by themselves.。
They usually show up with the social media team。
or reporters from different news outlet。
or journalists from different newspaper。
in order that the good works can somewhat be documented。
and then being shown to the public.。
Look, look at what I've done for you all.。
And the funny thing is,。
the closer it gets to an election year,。
these kind of operations will become。
more and more frequent.。
They will start to visit the poorer part of the city。
and then take a photo there,。
or they will visit hospital or orphanage in the city,。
or do whatever they need, the publicity stunt,。
to increase the reputation.。
And the consequences of putting up a show for generosity。
like the hypocrites, this is what Jesus warns.。
"Truly, I tell you, they have received the reward in full."。
This can be a little bit confusing at first。
because you might wonder,。
"Jesus, I thought you warned against。
"this kind of public display of generosity.。
"How come they're still able to receive a reward。
"and even receive a reward in full?"。
So let's unpack that a little bit.。
So what Jesus is saying here。
is that they have received their full reward。
now in the earthly sense.。
Put it another way, Jesus is saying that。
if you give to the poor。
with the intention of receiving praise from people,。
then praise from people is all you're ever going to get.。
And God pretty much owes you nothing.。
So in this way, your reward is in the here and now.。
Your reward is pretty much temporary.。
And from another perspective,。
you're actually not giving to the poor,。
but you're sort of like buying your praises from people.。
So your reward is also transactional as well.。
Every time you want to receive honor or receive praise,。
you just give to the poor。
so that you pretty much buy your praises,。
buy the action of giving to the poor.。
So how should we give as his disciples?。
As kingdom disciples,。
how should we do this act of kindness towards the needy?。
And what kind of manner should we have?。
So in verse three and four, Jesus say,。
"When you give to the poor, to the needy,。
"do not let your left hand know。
"what your right hand is doing,。
"so that your giving may be in secret.。
"Then your father who sees what is done in secret。
"will reward you."。
So what Jesus say is this,。
when we give to the poor or when we help those in need,。
do it in secret or privacy,。
to the extent that even our left hand。
doesn't know what our right hand is doing.。
And to be able to show kindness and generosity。
to this extent requires us。
to completely disregard ourself, right?。
That is what Jesus mean,。
that your left hand doesn't know。
what your right hand is doing.。
It is a point where we need to completely disregard ourself.。
And the outcome of it,。
we will receive our heavenly reward from the Father.。
And one thing to note here,。
Jesus does not mean that we give。
because we want to receive a reward。
from our heavenly Father.。
We give from a cheerful and sincere heart。
for several reasons.。
If you recall at the end of Matthew five,。
the command to be perfect as our heavenly Father is,。
our goal on this side of heaven。
is to be like our heavenly Father.。
And from the Bible,。
we know that our heavenly Father。
is one who cares for the poor,。
the marginalized,。
and those in which the world has little regard for.。
So when we give to the poor or help those in need,。
we are living out our kingdom identity。
as the son and daughters of God.。
And secondly, we give to the poor because we love him。
and we want to give back a portion。
of what he has blessed us with.。
Later in Matthew,。
in the parable of the sheep and goat,。
Jesus himself emphasized that。
whatever we do to the least among us,。
we do it to Jesus himself.。
So as disciples of Jesus,。
we pursue generosity and kindness,。
not for the temporary glory from men,。
like the hypocrites or the worldly disciples do,。
but we do it for the affirmation from our heavenly Father.。
So this is the first examples on giving to the poor.。
Then Jesus moved on to the second examples, prayer.。
So let's start with some background context。
to prayer in the Jewish culture.。
If you are a Jews,。
there are set times of prayer for you every day.。
As traditionally,。
the Jews, they will pray at least twice a day,。
one in the morning and one in the evening.。
And usually during those set hours of prayers,。
they will pray the Shema prayer,。
which is from Deuteronomy.。
Hear, O Israel, the Lord, your God, the Lord is one.。
And so when it comes to prayer,。
more specifically on personal prayer,。
this is what Jesus has to say.。
And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites,。
for they love to pray standing in the synagogues。
and on the street corners to be seen by others.。
Truly, I tell you, they have received their reward in full.。
But when you pray, go into your room,。
close the door and pray to the Father who is unseen.。
Then your Father who sees what is done in secret。
will reward you.。
So again, we see the similar elements。
and themes right here, right?。
It start with the action, that is praying.。
And the manner in which the hypocrites pray。
is to stand in the synagogues,。
which is the epicenter of all things Jewish life,。
or on the street corner,。
which is also a public space with high visibility.。
If you think of a corner,。
you can see through a corner, not just from one side,。
but from both ways as well.。
And usually the foot traffic around the corner。
will also be a little bit slow。
because people will slow down。
when they're trying to turn a corner.。
So the street corners are places。
with usually the highest visibilities that you can get.。
And the motivation of doing these things,。
once again, it is to be seen by other people.。
And to these hypocrites, Jesus once again say that。
they have received their reward in full。
in the here and now,。
the temporary and fleeting kind of reward。
that pretty much just goes away。
once your prayer is finished.。
But on the contrary, Jesus taught that when we pray,。
go into the room, and not only that,。
close the door and lock it up。
so that no one else except God alone can see us.。
This is because the goal of our personal prayer。
is to commune with our Father and to abide in Him,。
not to impress other people.。
And then Jesus continues with the same practice of prayer,。
but this time with a different kind of manner。
and also a different kind of motivation.。
So verse seven,。
"And when you pray, do not keep on babbling like the pagans,。
for they think that they will be heard。
because of their many words.。
Do not be like them,。
for your Father knows what you need before you ask Him."。
So besides praying in public places,。
another manner that we can be tempted to pray。
is to use fancy words or try to pray as long as we can。
without any actual content to it.。
Jesus compares this kind of prayer。
to the prayers of the Gentiles during their pagan worship,。
where they were pretty much like playing relate。
with the pantheon of gods,。
where they would repeatedly mention。
the names of different pagan gods。
with the hope that just maybe the right god。
would listen or hear their prayers。
and help them in their circumstances.。
In other words, they pray。
because they try to manipulate gods。
for their personal benefits.。
But as God's children, we do not have to pray like that。
because our Heavenly Father is a different kind of God.。
We don't need a secret passcode or say a certain phrase。
or special words for Him to hear our prayers,。
because He is a God who loves and cares for His people,。
one who knows our needs even before we bring it before Him.。
He is a God who is eager to respond to our requests,。
and He is a God who delight in His children。
when we come before Him with our prayers.。
And as we step into this new theme。
of crossing over at our church here,。
one of the aspects that we'll be focusing on,。
like Pastor Mark said earlier,。
is on our relationship with Him, with God.。
And so with that, I want to ask,。
how is your relationship with the Lord。
when it comes to your prayer life?。
On my trip back to Malaysia last October,。
I got to spend a lot of time just catching up。
and also hanging out with a lot of friends and family。
because I haven't been back for seven years.。
However, one thing that I quickly realized。
is that in most of these gatherings or hangouts,。
people would always ask me to pray。
because they know that I'm a pastor here in the US.。
And it got to the point where during dinner one night,。
it is just between me, my brother, and my mom.。
I had to stop and tell my mom,。
"Mom, can you stop asking me to pray every time?"。
Like people has been asking me to pray。
since I got back to my hometown pretty much.。
And this experience makes me realize two things.。
For one, for me personally,。
I feel the pressure to pray in a certain way。
to meet the expectation of people,。
especially with people acknowledging that,。
"Oh, he's a pastor."。
So I feel like I have to pray in a certain way.。
And so when I pray during those times,。
I feel like I'm praying more。
to meet the expectation of these people。
instead of genuinely praying to the Father.。
But secondly, I sense that for some people,。
they have these false ideas that,。
"Okay, if a pastor prays for them,。
they will be extra blessed,。
or that God will be more willing to answer the prayer."。
For these people,。
they might feel like they don't really know how to pray,。
or their prayer is less effective。
just because of the fact that。
they're not "professional Christian."。
But again, what we see right here。
is that this is not the case at all.。
God does not concern with what words we use,。
or how long our prayer is.。
In the following verse in Matthew 6,。
Jesus would go on to show us how we ought to pray.。
And this has become known as the Lord's Prayer.。
But for today, we'll skip over this portion first。
and come back to it later in my next sermon.。
And so, so far we have looked at the first two examples。
on giving to the poor and also on prayer.。
And now Jesus continues with his third practice。
of righteousness on fasting, beginning in verse 16.。
So when you fast, do not look somber as the hypocrites do,。
for they disfigure their face。
to show others that they are fasting.。
Truly, I tell you, they have received their reward in full.。
So the purpose of fasting is for us。
to kind of like have a heart of complete dependence。
on the Lord, right?。
And it's also usually also a way for us。
to kind of like practice humility,。
just knowing that we cannot depend on ourself.。
However, the hypocrites,。
they would intentionally disfigure their face。
and make themselves look gloomy and miserable。
when they fast.。
This is because in the Old Testament,。
fasting is often associated with repentance.。
And along with fasting,。
people will usually also put on ashes on their face。
and put on sackcloth。
in order to heighten the feeling of sin and mourning.。
But when these hypocrites fast,。
they put on a show。
so that they can be recognized as more religious。
instead of coming out from a heart。
of mourning over their sins or mourning over the brokenness.。
So instead of coming from a place of humility,。
this kind of performative fasting。
comes from a place of pride,。
of wanting to be recognized.。
And instead of an attitude of dependence on God,。
this kind of performative fasting。
comes from an attitude of dependence on yourself.。
Pretty much, look at how righteous I am.。
Look at how religious I am.。
And this kind of performative fasting。
is what Jesus is warning us against.。
And again, these hypocrites,。
Jesus say that they have received the full reward。
in the here and now.。
So how should we fast then?。
So this is what Jesus say, verse 17.。
"But when you fast, put oil on your head and wash your face。
"so that it will not be obvious to others。
"that you are fasting,。
"but only to your father who is unseen.。
"And your father who sees what is done in secret。
"will reward you."。
So what Jesus meant is this.。
When you fast, clean yourself up。
and make yourself look presentable.。
Go out of your way to make yourself look normal。
in order that no one will recognize that you are fasting,。
but only the Father alone.。
So I want to end my sermon with these stories of someone。
whom I have the privilege of meeting,。
who perfectly embodies this kind of heart posture。
in their love of God。
and also in their service for other people.。
In summer 2019, when I was still serving。
with another ministry,。
I spent the summer staffing a summer mission。
of about 20 plus college students。
from all across the United States.。
And we're having our summer mission here。
in the inner city of Chicago.。
And on our first Saturday,。
we partner with a pastor from South Side of Chicago。
to do a homeless outreach.。
So this pastor, his name is Pastor Burton.。
And he had been doing this homeless outreach。
for years already at that point.。
And every Saturday morning。
during the warmer months of the year,。
he would set up a table to give out lunches。
and essential supplies to the homeless person.。
So I have a few pictures from that summer.。
Can anyone recognize where the pictures on the top right is?。
Where is that at in Chicago?。
Yes, it is on Canal Street。
and it is right across Pacific Garden Mission,。
which is a homeless shelter.。
But why does he specifically set up a table。
to provide these essential supplies and food。
and lunches for the homeless people。
outside of a homeless shelter?。
Well, because there are people。
who are not being able to accept。
into the Pacific Gardens Mission programming。
for various reasons.。
And these are the people that Pastor Burton,。
he wanted to serve.。
And after a couple of hours,。
just kind of like setting up the table at Canal,。
he would then drive to Lower Wacker Drive。
to give out some supplies。
and also check in on the people who live in tents。
and some of the max-shift shelters there.。
So the picture on the lower left。
is actually at Lower Wacker.。
And if you have been to Lower Wacker before,。
you probably know that it is pretty much。
like a maze down there, right?。
It's not only is it dark。
and the street is a little complicated。
and your GPS like nine out of 10 times,。
it just doesn't work there.。
So I've personally driven through Lower Wacker。
countless times,。
but I actually never recognized anyone。
actually living down there.。
But the thing about Pastor Burton。
that really stood out to me,。
even until this day,。
is how he's able to remember。
where each of these individual lives.。
I remember that Saturday,。
we would just randomly stop at a spot。
like on Lower Wacker,。
and then he would just turn and tell us,。
"Okay, you guys can grab the supplies。
"and we're gonna head out now."。
And then he would lead us。
to all these different nooks and crannies。
on Lower Wacker,。
where all these people live.。
And so not only did he remember。
where each of these people live,。
he also know them by their name.。
He will call them,。
and these people will kind of like。
come out of the corners.。
And he also knew the specific needs。
of each of these individuals.。
If it is a guy,。
he have some specific supplies for a guy.。
If it is a mom with a few little kids,。
he also have some specific supplies。
for this mom and her kids.。
And the most important thing is,。
you would never see Pastor Burton。
being on the news,。
being recognized for the good work。
that he has done.。
And yet he show up week after week,。
because he knew that he was serving。
these people for the Lord.。
For him, he is just living out his faith。
and being obedient to Jesus.。
And even though I only get to spend a day。
with Pastor Burton,。
his example has left such a huge impact。
in my life that I think。
it will pretty much last forever.。
And that summary also changed。
a lot of my perspective of Chicago。
as a city as well.。
So before I end,。
I want to leave us with this question。
to reflect on.。
What motivations tend to drive。
your acts of worship and service?。
Is it the approval of God?。
Or the admiration of others?。
Again, a worldly disciple pursues。
right living for the applause of people.。
And a kingdom disciples,。
on the other hand,。
pursues right living for the affirmation。
of the Father.。
So let's spend some time。
just reflect on these questions。
and I would end this with a prayer.。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
- Heavenly Father,。
I ask that you would help us。
to be a church and be a people。
who loves you,。
who serve others,。
not for the praise of people。
or to be recognized by the world,。
but to do all these things of generosity,。
this act of kindness,。
out of a pure motives of just loving you。
and also loving your people.。
Help us to be a people。
who is able to love selflessly,。
who is able to serve selflessly,。
because we know that we belong to your kingdom.。
We know that we belong to you,。
our Heavenly Fathers,。
and that we're able to do all these things,。
not because of our own abilities,。
but because of the love that you have for us.。
So help us, Fathers,。
not to chase after the glory of man。
or the praise from the world,。
but to be your kingdom disciples。
who long for your affirmation。
and your approval alone.。
Help us to be people。
who loves you。
and love others in a way。
that shows our kingdom identity.。
(soft piano music)。
So Father, as we finish our service today。
and just go on for our week,。
I just ask that you will help us,。
even in this week,。
to have opportunity to serve and love others。
in the way that you have called us to.。
So I pray this in your Son's name, amen.。
Okay, thank you for joining us this morning.。
As Kelly said, we'll serve some lunch outside,。
so feel free to hang out。
and just fellowship with one another.。
Thank you.。
