My dear brothers and sisters, good morning.。
Okay, you know what, last week actually was the first Sunday worship we had together after the merger.。
So it seems like, you know what, it seems like transplanting our organ.。
So it'll take some time.。
So when you look at each other, actually they are you.。
Okay, we are one body.。
It means that they are part of you, you are part of they, part of them.。
So you need to accept each other as one body of Christ.。
Okay, so this is my homework for all of you guys.。
So before you go home after this worship, as one body, practice oneness.。
Like what?。
Meet three strangers around you.。
So urban voices, urban voice, you guys, you meet your new brothers and sisters.。
Learn them by their name.。
Look at their eyes, ask their job, and ask their lives, okay?。
Do the same thing.。
Okay, so Puneon, former Puneon, now you are urban voice, don't forget that.。
So ask the other brothers and sisters how they are doing now, okay?。
This is practicing oneness in Christ.。
So I don't know, can we have the title on the screen, today's message?。
The message of -- the title of today's message is like this.。
Keep your heart more from the evil than from COVID.。
Did you get it?。
What is the title?。
Keep your heart more from the evil than you are trying to keep from -- keep yourself from COVID.。
So our COVID situation is going on and on.。
And this COVID situation is the most inconvenient and fearful and dreadful period of our lives.。
So what did you experience?。
Do you remember last year, March, COVID situation started in Chicago and then a few months, for the following a few months, everything was closed down.。
Do you remember lockdown?。
There was no people on the streets.。
And all the public places were closed.。
We couldn't do anything.。
There was COVID-19.。
And how about these days?。
I have three children.。
They go to the public -- they go to the school.。
Whenever they have any symptom, like a very light symptom or a mere little fever or just if they -- even if just they sneeze, they need to take the COVID-19 test.。
Okay?。
So COVID-19 is now -- has been so serious for all of us.。
Even after one and a half years later now, more than that, what did you learn?。
What is the greatest lesson through this COVID-19?。
What did you learn?。
I learned about the importance of cleanliness.。
So you guys place some -- what is that?。
Sanitizers in front of the doors everywhere.。
What do you think of?。
Cleanliness.。
Through this COVID-19, what we learned most is cleanliness, the importance of cleanliness.。
And in today's story, Jesus and the Pharisees and teachers of the law, they were arguing about the true cleanliness.。
Why?。
When Jesus' disciples, they joined eating the food, Jesus' disciples, they were maybe -- they were too hungry.。
So they didn't wash their hands.。
So what did they do?。
Jesus' disciples didn't wash their hands, and they were beginning to eat the food.。
When the Pharisees and teachers of the law, when they looked at them, they were shocked.。
What are you guys -- what are you doing?。
We Jewish people, if we do not wash our hands, we do not eat any food.。
That is our cleanliness.。
We are holy people.。
That's what the Pharisees were thinking.。
Right?。
They were super holy people, super clean people.。
So they were talking about some cleanliness.。
But when Jesus heard it, Jesus began to talk about another kind of cleanliness.。
What is that?。
Jesus said, when you can read your Bible, please keep your Bible open, and you can go back to the verses again and again together.。
When you look at verse 15, Jesus says like this, "Nothing outside a man can make him unclean by going into him.。
It is rather, it is what comes out of a man that makes him unclean."。
Did you hear that?。
So here, when Jesus heard the Pharisees and teachers of the law, Jesus is giving a totally different interpretation about the true cleanliness.。
So, what is that?。
The Pharisees and teachers of the law, they were talking about physical cleanliness, visible, which is visible.。
Visible, physical cleanliness.。
But Jesus was talking about what?。
Spiritual, invisible cleanliness.。
Which is more important?。
Pharisees and teachers of the law, they were keeping the law so well.。
So they thought we are holy people.。
But when Jesus was looking at them, Jesus knew that they were actually unclean.。
Who is unclean?。
The Pharisees and teachers of the law.。
For an example, Jesus was pointing out their fault.。
You are washing your hands before eating the food, but actually you are not holy people.。
You are unclean, dirty people.。
Why?。
Because look at what you are doing now.。
What is that Jesus is pointing out?。
Jesus talked about Korban.。
Everybody, Korban.。
Korban.。
C-O-R-B-A-N.。
Korban is some amount of money, very precious gift set aside only for God.。
So the people, they set aside quite a lot of money, and they called it Korban, which is a gift to God.。
Then what happens?。
If you set aside a lot of money for God, it means that you don't need to support your parents.。
So many Jewish people, they were avoiding the duty of supporting their parents, making their money as a kind of Korban.。
But actually in their tradition, they were not supporting their parents.。
At the same time, they were not worshipping God with their true genuine heart.。
That is their heart.。
So when Jesus was talking about this, what did Jesus do?。
This is not the only thing.。
When you go down to verse 13, Jesus says that this is not the only thing.。
Actually, Jesus says, "You are doing many other things like this Korban."。
So look at you guys.。
You are trying to keep the law, but actually you are ignoring the law.。
You are not keeping the law.。
So are you really clean?。
Jesus was asking the Pharisees and teachers of the law.。
Then my brothers and sisters in this place, which is more important?。
Physical cleanliness, visual cleanliness.。
When you guys are coming to the church, if you do not wash, people will look at you.。
"Oh, look at the guy. Oh, smell. Did you brush your teeth? We don't like it, right?"。
But how about the cleanness?。
What is the true cleanness?。
Physical, visual cleanliness, one side.。
The other side, spiritual, invisible cleanliness, which is more important.。
Actually, you cannot compare.。
If you are not clean in your body, it's okay.。
People will frown, make a frowning face at you.。
That's it.。
But if your heart is not clean, what happens?。
Because of this dirtiness, people go to hell.。
If our conscience, if our mind and heart is not cleaned by Jesus' blood,。
if our heart is not clean, then what happens to the people?。
They will go to hell.。
Spiritual uncleanness gives us that penalty, which is more important.。
What else?。
If our spirit is not clean, what happens?。
It governs all the areas of our lives.。
Actually, our spiritual condition shapes and decides the whole quality of our lives.。
Are you now painful because your spirit is not clean?。
Are you now anxious or fearful because your spirit has a problem?。
Your spiritual condition decides everything in your life.。
I had a couple of days of short trip this week, and then I couldn't brush my teeth every time, three times per day.。
When I didn't do it, when I came back from the trip, I realized my teeth.。
I felt a little pain in my gum because I'm an old man.。
But listen, if our spirit is not clean, day by day, moment by moment,。
we harvest what we sow when we do not take care of our spirit.。
Then let's think about this.。
When you read the scripture together, what is the source of the spiritual uncleanness?。
If you do not brush your teeth, what is the source?。
Yes, a little tiny piece of the food inside and between the teeth.。
That is the source, right?。
Of the stinky smell.。
But how about the source of the spiritual uncleanness?。
What is that?。
This is very important.。
My brothers and sisters, listen to me very carefully.。
This knowledge is really, really important.。
You young people, you need to listen very carefully today.。
What is the source of the spiritual uncleanness?。
Verse 15.。
Can we go back to verse 15?。
It's very important.。
Do you see any verse?。
Okay, verse 15, listen to me.。
It is what comes out of a man that makes him unclean.。
Nothing outside of man makes him unclean.。
Rather, it is what comes out of a man that makes him unclean.。
What did that mean?。
When disciples heard this verse, they didn't understand, just like you.。
They didn't understand.。
How come?。
Something out of us, it makes unclean.。
It is not from outside, but from our inside, that is the thing which makes us unclean.。
The disciples didn't understand the first explanation.。
So when Jesus was alone with the disciples, Jesus was explaining one more time.。
From verse 21 to 23.。
Listen very carefully, you young people.。
This is very important knowledge.。
Verse 21.。
For from within, out of man's heart, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, malice, deceit, lewdness, envy, slander, arrogance, and folly.。
All these evils, verse 23, all these evils come from inside.。
Where?。
Not from outside, but from inside and make a man unclean.。
What does that mean?。
All these evil thoughts, what are the evil thoughts?。
When they enumerate, when Jesus was enumerating all these unclean evil thoughts, Jesus summarized the first one, evil thoughts.。
What are the evil thoughts?。
Coming out of your mind, inside.。
Number one, sexual immorality.。
All kinds of dirty desires, sexual desires, dirty desires.。
Where does it come from?。
And then theft, what is that theft?。
You want to steal.。
Are you paying the tax honestly?。
Even so many Christians, they are deceived by the Satan, by the evil spirit.。
And even paying the taxes, they are not honest.。
So when you hear the word theft, you are thinking about really huge rich people?。
No.。
So many of us, we are choosing the wrong things.。
Theft, that is stealing some money in whatever ways.。
Or murder, what is murder?。
Jesus said, if you have a hatred inside you, if you have a small hatred inside you, it's just stealing.。
It's killing people.。
Adultery, adultery.。
Greed, what is greed?。
You desire more than enough.。
You have already enough.。
Who is now hungry?。
Now in our society, you are hungry?。
Pastor Mark, Rachel is now hungry.。
She raised, okay, not that kind of meaning.。
You have enough money to buy food, but what I'm saying is, like, nobody is hungry in our society now.。
But people are desiring more.。
People are desiring more and more.。
There is no satisfaction.。
There is no thankfulness.。
Greed, how about malice?。
What is malice?。
Young people, what is malice?。
Okay, you did the wrong thing to me.。
Okay, I'm going to hate you until I die.。
Malice.。
How about deceit?。
Are you honest in dealing with your job?。
Dealing with any responsibility?。
Deceit, lewdness, what is lewdness?。
Sexually dirty in words and thoughts and behavior.。
Envy, what is envy?。
You have already enough, but you think that the person, what the person has now is what I now want.。
So you continuously desire what others have.。
Envy.。
Until when?。
Until you die.。
You are never fully satisfied.。
You never understand that God is the wonderful provider.。
And then slander, what is slander?。
You talk back, you're biting persons, any character, anything behind their back.。
Okay, how about arrogance?。
Pride and folly.。
All kinds of foolish things.。
You choose foolish words, foolish behavior, but you think that it's okay.。
When you look at other people, when they are doing it, you are shocked.。
Why they are doing such a foolish thing?。
But actually, that's what we are doing.。
Then brothers and sisters, where do all these evil thoughts come from?。
Today's passage is very important.。
It is not from outside, but it is from inside.。
Inside.。
Who is inside?。
Who is inside?。
So when you go to the scripture, 1 John 3, verse 8-9.。
When you go to the scripture, 1 John 3, verse 8-9, it goes like this.。
He who does what is sinful is of the devil.。
Did you hear me?。
He who does what is sinful is of the devil.。
Because the devil has been sinning from the beginning.。
What does this verse talk about?。
Any sin, every sin is from the Satan.。
It's from the enemy.。
Because when God made us, we were made in God's image.。
What does that mean?。
We love, we desire the true love.。
We desire the holiness.。
We desire the cleanness.。
That's how God made us.。
But all these kinds of evil and dirty thoughts come from the Satan.。
So where is Satan?。
In your heart.。
Inside you.。
In your thoughts.。
In your emotions.。
They have built their house in there.。
So this is a very important understanding.。
Jesus said it is not, it is what comes out of a man that makes him unclean.。
So who is inside us?。
The Satan, the evil spirit.。
You may wonder, how can it happen?。
Yeah, that's what the Bible reveals.。
That's the truth the Bible reveals about.。
Then, from today, when you have that kind of dirty and evil thoughts, emotions, imaginations, and feelings, and all those things,。
what should you think?。
Oh, you Satan.。
Are you trying to enter my heart?。
Again, you should understand.。
All those evil desires is not your desire.。
You need to understand that those desires are from the Satan.。
Okay?。
That is the teaching.。
That's what Jesus teaches today in today's passage.。
Then, let's think more about this.。
How does Satan's uncleanness enter us?。
Okay, Satan can enter through our thoughts, through our emotions, especially through our hearts.。
Then how does it happen?。
What is our heart?。
Our heart is like a cockpit.。
Do you know cockpit?。
Cockpit is the small place in front of the airplane where the pilot flies the whole airplane.。
It's a very small place, cockpit.。
Our heart is like a cockpit.。
Our heart is the center of our being.。
In our heart, what happens?。
In our heart, we decide and we discern which is right and which is wrong.。
At the same time, we know that, "Oh, that's good. That's not bad. That's good. That's bad."。
Our heart is the place we discern and we decide everything.。
So our heart is the center of us.。
Right?。
Then this heart can be stolen by the evil spirit.。
So actually, when we were talking, Pastor Mark read some parts, but actually read a little bit more than I expected, but it was good.。
Why?。
Because when Pastor Mark read the following passage, it shows two people.。
One is a little daughter of a woman.。
The little daughter was possessed by an evil spirit.。
Possessed.。
The Bible says possessed by the evil spirit.。
Second case was like this.。
What is the second case?。
The last story. Do you remember?。
What is that?。
Death man.。
Jesus says the death came from the evil spirit.。
So when you look at these people, when you look at the Bible, you need to understand that much, much more than we can think, ever think.。
There are a lot of evil possession cases.。
We see like a physical condition.。
Like some psychological issue, mental issue, or a physical issue.。
But behind that, a lot of spiritual issues too.。
Okay?。
Then, in another story, when you go to Mark's Gospel, chapter 7, when Jesus was expelling the evil spirit, Jesus says, when Jesus called the spirit, Jesus used evil spirit.。
But in Greek language, it says unclean spirit.。
Do you get it?。
So evil spirit, what they are doing is all unclean things.。
Dirty things.。
We love cleanliness, but actually, so many dirty things are coming from our hearts because of the evil spirits.。
Now you are getting it a little bit?。
Then, how does the evil spirit enter our hearts?。
How does the evil spirit enter our hearts?。
How?。
When you think.。
When you think, the evil spirit enters your thinking as if it were your thinking.。
Actually, it was not part of your thinking, but the evil spirit comes into your thinking slightly, very secretly.。
Okay?。
Or your emotion.。
When you are really angry, evil spirit enters your heart.。
Gives more anger.。
More anger.。
Breaking your things.。
Breaking the relationship.。
Breaking the most precious thing in your life.。
Or some strong desire.。
Very strong sexual desires.。
Now young people, you need to listen.。
In your days, if you do not keep your heart pure, you are going to lose everything in your life.。
If you do not keep your heart pure, you are going to lose everything in your life.。
Because it is from the Satan.。
I'm telling you.。
Whatever you cannot do in front of other people, it is from the Satan.。
Listen. What is sin?。
Sin is everything you cannot do in front of other people.。
Because it's dirty.。
It's not right.。
That's why you cannot do it in front of other people.。
So through your thoughts, through your desires, or some words.。
Some words are trying to enter your heart.。
I experienced a lot of times.。
Now I know how to fight this spiritual battle.。
So many years.。
And God gave me a victory.。
I couldn't do it.。
But God gave me the victory over a long period of time.。
But still, the Satan tries to enter my heart.。
I can feel it.。
Or sometimes, very grotesque, evil pictures.。
Some dirty thoughts and pictures in your heart.。
You know what?。
This is not yours.。
But it is the Satan's.。
It is the evil spirit in disguise.。
And then all these things, dirty, evil things, they are all lies.。
You need to understand.。
They are not true actually.。
But they are all lies.。
About you.。
Lies about what?。
Lies about you.。
You guys, at least as far as I know, all the brothers and sisters in here.。
You love Jesus.。
You are saved.。
You want to be holy.。
But that kind of all dirty, evil desires and thoughts, they are not yours.。
They are from the Satan.。
So what is that?。
It's a lie.。
It's a lie.。
So John's Gospel chapter 8 verse 44 says like this.。
John's Gospel chapter 8 verse 44.。
You belong to your father, the devil.。
Here you is Pharisees and the teachers of the law.。
Okay?。
Just religious people.。
Religious people.。
You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father's desire.。
He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth.。
For there is no truth in him.。
Listen here.。
When he lies, when the Satan lies, he speaks his native language.。
For he's a liar and the father of lies.。
Who is a Satan?。
Satan, whenever he opens his mouth, Satan is a liar.。
He never says any truth about you, about God.。
Okay?。
So whatever the Satan says, it's a lie.。
It's a lie.。
And he's the father of lies.。
His native language is not Cantonese.。
His native language is not Mandarin or Korean.。
His native language is lie.。
Do you understand?。
How many times did he lie to you?。
Do you understand?。
And then when you listen to the Satan, what will happen in your life?。
What is the time now?。
I'm sorry.。
When does the worship end?。
Ten more minutes?。
Okay, ten more minutes.。
So listen.。
When you listen to the Satan or the unclean thoughts and desires, this is the things that will happen in your life.。
You're going to break your relationship, broken relationship.。
And there are all kinds of shame, shame and guilt in your life.。
We had a great man in our country.。
His name was Park, just a family name.。
He was a mayor, mayor of Seoul city, metropolitan city, 10 million people.。
He was a mayor, very powerful man.。
He was an activist when he was young, so people respected him.。
He had everything now, mayor of Seoul metropolitan city.。
But you know what?。
He yielded into the wrong desire and what happened to him.。
He had a sexually wrong thing with his secretary.。
And the secretary was going to expose the sin.。
And this guy, he went on to mountain, he committed suicide.。
Just one single wrong desire killed him.。
My brothers and sisters, this is what the Satan does.。
And then, listen, how can we keep our hearts clean?。
My brothers and sisters, how can we keep our hearts clean?。
Number one, guard your heart.。
Everybody, guard your heart.。
Guard your heart.。
Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23 goes like this.。
"Above all else, guard your heart, for it is the wellspring of life."。
You guys, I have Chinese brothers and sisters here,。
but I was shocked when I saw you guys.。
Because many brothers and sisters, they have a camera,。
the security camera in their houses.。
I don't think they need it because they are not rich people.。
But many brothers and sisters, they have a security camera in their houses.。
They lock the door and then it is not enough.。
So they put the security camera in their houses.。
Why? To guard, to guard.。
How about your heart?。
How about your heart?。
Are you setting a guard in your heart?。
Or does every dirty thing come in, goes easily?。
How is your heart? You need to check.。
How can you keep your heart?。
What is the guard?。
If you do not know the word of God,。
then you don't know how to keep your heart.。
When you check God's word, you need to know that,。
"Oh, that is right, or that is wrong."。
You can set a guard according to God's word.。
That's why you need to study God's word day and night.。
Young people, read God's word.。
Don't go into any blog or Facebook.。
Facebook after Facebook, it will kill you.。
Listen. Read God's word. Read God's word.。
Second one, how can we be clean in our hearts?。
Number two, throw away the sources of uncleanness.。
Throw away all uncleanness.。
The source of uncleanness. What is that?。
The Bible, Mark's gospel, when you go down more,。
in the same chapter, chapter 9, Jesus said,。
"If your hands do something sinful, cut it off.。
If your legs do something sinful, cut it off.。
If your eyes are doing something wrong, pluck it out."。
There is a seriousness, seriousness of uncleanness, sins.。
1 John 3, verse 9 goes like this.。
"No one who is born of God will continue to sin."。
If you are born of God, you should stop doing the same sin again and again.。
If you are repeating the same sin again and again,。
it means you are listening to the enemy.。
This is the enemy's lies.。
You cannot overcome.。
That is who you are.。
You've been enjoying it for more than a decade.。
You cannot get out of that.。
My husband cannot change.。
My wife cannot change.。
That's a lie.。
When Jesus' blood touches us, we should change.。
Like what?。
What is throwing away all the sources of uncleanness?。
When you have a pile of dung.。
Do you like dung?。
You don't like it?。
If you have a good pile of dung, flies will come, surely.。
But if you clean it up, no more flies.。
In the same way, if you throw away all the evil things from your heart,。
from your lives, from your habits, then the evil spirit will leave you.。
Third one, come near to the clean gathering and people.。
Come near to the clean gathering and people, just like this.。
Like what?。
When Jesus was walked about, people wanted to touch Jesus' cloak.。
Just Jesus' clothes.。
Why?。
They knew that even if I touch Jesus' body or Jesus' clothes,。
I'm going to be healed.。
Unclean things are contagious.。
At the same time, cleanliness is contagious, too.。
So if you come to the clean people, our heart becomes cleaner and cleaner.。
Number four, wash your uncleanness with Jesus' blood.。
Our guilt and shame of sin is cleansed only by Jesus' blood.。
If you have guilt, if you have any kind of shame, I had a lot.。
In my 30s, I was a sinner.。
I had been going to the church for a long time, but I had a lot of sins inside me.。
Guilt, guilt and shame.。
I had to be covered with Jesus' blood fully, and I got free.。
I was freed.。
1 John 1, verse 7 says, "The blood of Jesus, the Son, purifies us from all sin."。
What does that mean?。
Cleanses us from all sins.。
Okay, last one.。
So you know what?。
What do you do?。
If you are repeating the same sin again and again, you want to get out of it, but you cannot do it,。
you need to cry out, "Jesus, save me from my sin and cover me with your sin!"。
"Remove all the shame and guilt! Make me whole! Make me clean!"。
Okay?。
Cry out in your prayer.。
Last one.。
How can we keep ourselves clean all the time?。
Be filled with the Spirit.。
Ephesians 5, verse 18 says, "Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery."。
Instead, be filled with the Spirit.。
If you are drinking Facebook after Facebook, all kinds of Instagram and those things,。
you are drinking the unholy, unclean things.。
How can you be filled with the Holy Spirit?。
It means that when you sit at home, when you are eating, when you are sleeping, when you are studying,。
you are filled with God's thinking.。
You are filled with God's emotion, God's Word, God's idea, God's feeling.。
Then you are Spirit-filled.。
How can that happen?。
If you give the center of your heart to God.。
If not, you cannot be filled with the Spirit.。
We are easily filled with the Spirit of the world.。
We need to be very careful.。
Okay?。
So, let me close, my dear brothers and sisters.。
We don't like unclean vessels.。
If we have an unclean container, we cannot take the food from it.。
We don't like it.。
If you look at an unclean person, we know that the person has a problem.。
But as I told you, as I challenged you, how is your heart?。
How clean is your heart?。
You need to ask today.。
And you need to receive the cleanness only coming from the blood of Jesus Christ,。
which is our hope.。
Let's pray.。
Let's pray.。
Our Father God, you made us after your image,。
holy and righteous.。
Fearfully, wonderfully, you made us.。
But Lord, we have lived in this world, and we were stained.。
We got all kinds of uncleanness, and we didn't know that it was a sin.。
We desired it. We accepted it. We received it. We welcomed it.。
So our hearts became so defiled.。
But today, Jesus, Holy Spirit, come upon your people.。
Remove all the uncleanness coming from the Satan.。
Let us understand that all these evil desires are not from us.。
They are not ours, but they are from the Satan.。
So give us the right understanding.。
At the same time, Holy Spirit, be our God in our hearts.。
Give us the desire to love you more, more than anything else on this earth,。
that we can love you with our clean hearts,。
and make us clean and healthy in our body and spirit when we love you, Lord,。
when we pursue you.。
In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
