Hey guys, happy Father's Day to all of you.。
And I'm sure today's Father's Day,。
you probably want to hear something about some Father's。
Day story, right?。
Anyone?。
Yeah.。
OK, all right.。
A couple of Father's Day stories.。
Again, it's not about-- as preachers,。
sometimes we use our children as our [INAUDIBLE]。
and without their permission.。
But here, I give you a couple of stories.。
It's not about them, OK?。
So it's not about them, it's about me.。
It's about me.。
As a father, you probably would realize。
that we are broken as well, right?。
We are broken as much as anyone else.。
And we need the grace of God.。
So I've got a couple of stories of brokenness。
to share to you on this Father's Day.。
I shared a couple of stories in the 10 o'clock service,。
so maybe I should just do this right here, right?。
The first story, when my daughter was about one year old,。
I remember there was one afternoon I was working really,。
really hard.。
It probably was a Saturday.。
And as you know, as a pastor, the most busiest day。
of the week is Saturday, right?。
It's Saturday.。
You're getting ready for today, right?。
So I was preparing sermon.。
And for some reason, the little girl。
was making some weird noise.。
And for 10 minutes straight, I don't know,。
she was not crying, was not in pain or anything like that.。
But she was just in the crib, and she was just。
making some noise.。
I don't know why.。
So I was kind of--。
if you know me enough, I can be an angry man.。
I can be very, very angry in moments of weaknesses.。
I can unleash my anger.。
So that's the broken part of me, right?。
So I went into the room, and I started pushing to her.。
So I had a 10-minute impromptu sermon, right?。
I forgot what I preached, but I think the central idea was。
that you cannot be selfish, right?。
You need to care for other people.。
We have needs, too, right?。
I need to get things done, right?。
So I unleashed that angry sermon for 10 minutes straight.。
So I will remember that.。
And then I came back to my room and kind of calmed down.。
And then I said to God, dude, that was my broken moment.。
I shouldn't do that, right?。
So I confessed my sin and went back to the room.。
I said, I'm sorry.。
I was angry, right?。
My anger was not checked, right?。
And of course, I don't think she remembered that.。
But that's OK.。
I think fatherhood is vocation, right?。
You know what vocation means?。
Vocation means calling, right?。
Calling.。
It's a calling that God has on us。
as fathers for a certain period of time in our lives,。
sometimes shorter, sometimes longer.。
But we are being called to be a father, right?。
But I want to tell you, if you're a father,。
or you have a father, we're not perfect.。
And we don't need to be perfect.。
We all need the grace of God, right?。
Amen?。
We all need the grace of God.。
And believe it or not, fathers, daddies, God loves you, right?。
God accepted you.。
Entirely.。
Not because you're perfect.。
Not because you're better.。
Just because who you are, right?。
We're sinners.。
First story of Father's Day.。
Second story is about my son.。
This I also vividly remember.。
I think he was about five to six years old.。
And as Asian families, we want our kids to learn instruments,。
right?。
A lot of Chinese and Asian families,。
they don't really appreciate music.。
But they just want their children to learn music, right?。
That's very ironic.。
But I'm not one of those.。
But I have my daughter and son go through piano lessons.。
I remember one afternoon before the piano teacher arrived,。
and he was practicing some very simple song, right?。
Very simple song.。
But for some reason, he didn't get it.。
He didn't get it.。
He just have that note wrong, right?。
Well, if you know me, I'm quite a self-disciplined person,。
right?。
I know if I put myself into doing something,。
I will get it done, right?。
A lot of fathers are like that, right?。
And that's a good thing.。
That's also a bad thing, right?。
Because if you know me as a friend,。
you probably would not think I'm too imposing, right?。
But in my family, everyone else knows that I'm kind of--。
I want to impose.。
I demand, right?。
And to live with me is quite an experience.。
It's quite--。
For real?。
For real, yeah.。
People suffer because I have high demand on other people,。
especially family members.。
So he was practicing piano, and he was doing this chord,。
and something like this, right?。
[PIANO PLAYING]。
Yeah, and he kept doing it wrong.。
And to me, this is unacceptable, right?。
And at that moment, it was a broken moment.。
It was a moment of weakness.。
I unleashed my anger again.。
So I'm yelling at him, right?。
Yelling at him.。
I said, there's no way you cannot do this.。
If you repeat that phrase, that measure, for 50 times,。
then you will do it, right?。
And then I forced him to repeat that once and twice and third.。
After quite a few times, I realized。
that there was something wrong with me, right?。
And it just dawned on me.。
What I want him to do, does it really。
matter compared to what God wants him to do?。
Do you know what I'm saying?。
It's not that important what I want.。
It's what God wants, right?。
So after that heated moment, it was really heated.。
Again, he doesn't remember that.。
God is good.。
[LAUGHTER]。
After that piano lesson, I walked again.。
I prayed, and I confessed my sin.。
And I said, God, give me courage to apologize.。
You know how that goes?。
A 37-year-old man, you need to apologize to a five-year-old?。
Like a real apology?。
It's not like, I'm sorry.。
No, it's a real apology, right?。
So I walked up to him and I said, I'm sorry.。
I was angry.。
Can you forgive me?。
It was a humbling experience.。
Humbling experience in the sense that we are all broken.。
I'm broken.。
I need the grace of God, right?。
We all need the grace of God.。
Now I'll share these stories to you on Father's Day,。
because of course, some of us are fathers.。
And some of you have fathers, right?。
They're still alive, right?。
Living with your father, living with your daddy.。
We are broken.。
We need to share the grace of God.。
So that's the first I want to share with you before we。
go to the Apostles' Creek.。
And no matter where you are in your life stage,。
our fathers are broken.。
We, as fathers, we are broken.。
And we need the love of God.。
And the love of God is there.。
1 John 3, verse 1.。
"See what great love the Father has lavished on us,。
that we should be called children of God."。
And that is what we are.。
The great love of our heavenly Father has lavished on us.。
So that is a happy Father's Day to you.。
But I want you to know that God loves you.。
God's grace is always sufficient, right?。
Great love, lavishing on us.。
Well, let's come to the loving presence of God.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we give you thanks because you love us so much.。
You love us so much that your Son, your only Son,。
died on the cross for our sins, for our brokenness.。
And we thank you.。
Thank you for your loving presence.。
Thank you for this relationship that we have,。
that we are called your children, children of God.。
In our brokenness, in our humbleness, in our sinfulness,。
we meet your grace.。
We experience your love.。
And thank you for the cross.。
Thank you for what you have done for all of us.。
I especially want to pray for the daddies and fathers。
in our congregation.。
I pray that your grace will be lavishing on them,。
that it is not easy to be a father, especially。
in this generation.。
I pray that your grace will be sufficient for them。
to meet those challenges.。
And even though they are not perfect,。
even though we are broken, we know that you love us fully.。
You accept us at the foot of the cross.。
And we thank you for this grace.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
All right, so the end of Father's Day sermon.。
OK, all right.。
So we go back to the Apostles' Creek.。
All right, I'll cut it short.。
And I'll make sure we get out after 1225.。
OK, we come to this section, the virgin birth of Jesus Christ.。
The Apostles' Creek, again, is 12 statements.。
It's like a road map of what Christianity is all about.。
And here it says, "I believe in Jesus Christ as only Son,。
our Lord.。
He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit。
and born of Virgin Mary."。
Jesus' birth is a miracle birth.。
Now, as modern people, we hear miracle birth, all right,。
virgin birth.。
We automatically think in scientific terms, right?。
Have you ever asked the question,。
what's the DNA of Jesus?。
Right?。
Now, definitely not from Joseph, right?。
But where's it from, right?。
What does it look like?。
Now, we come to the virgin birth or miracle birth。
with the scientific thinking.。
But I think for the biblical readers of this first audience,。
they would not think in terms of scientific DNA。
and all that stuff.。
They would be thinking along the line of the Old Testament.。
The Old Testament, if you remember,。
there were tons of miracle birth stories, right?。
Can you name some of them?。
Isaac, right?。
Jacob and Esau.。
And there are many other miracle births.。
If you track the miracle birth stories。
of the entire Old Testament, every time there's。
a child miraculously birth, it is。
because God is advancing another chapter in his redemption。
plan for mankind.。
Isaac was born, opened another new chapter in Abraham's story,。
in the story of Genesis.。
And then Esau and Jacob was born as the twin brothers,。
miracle birth again.。
And another chapter was open.。
So they would be thinking about God is doing something new.。
So when the Bible talks about the virgin birth of Mary,。
when Jesus was birthed, the Bible。
is talking about finally God is fulfilling his promises.。
Whatever he has said in the entire Old Testament,。
the covenant with Abraham, the covenant with David,。
and all this stuff, God is faithful.。
And only God can do that.。
That is why the birth of a child is a miraculous birth.。
Virgin birth, of course, is the miracle birth, right?。
So again, we don't come to the Bible always。
with our modern mindset, right?。
I think I have talked about it in the past few parts。
of the sermon series.。
I think it's sad.。
It is really sad that even today, in 21st century,。
we always think that faith and science are in disharmony.。
They don't go together.。
And they must be being polarized.。
Again, when we come to the miracle birth of Jesus,。
virgin birth of Mary, we don't need。
to think in scientific terms.。
There is no contradiction between miracle。
and how the natural world works.。
They can be in harmony.。
I was born-- I grew up in a very conservative church.。
And I remember back then in the Bible studies。
and in Sunday schools, we always have。
to feel the tension, the huge tension,。
between faith and reason, faith and intellect.。
We opened the Bible, the first few pages, Genesis.。
There's always this harmony, kind。
of a tension between what Genesis 1。
has to say about the beginning of the universe。
and then what natural science has to say.。
Now, I want to tell you, I want to emphasize this.。
I think this is really, really sad that we have。
to pitch one against the other.。
There's no such thing, because the Bible is not。
a scientific textbook.。
It doesn't tell us what the early history。
of the physical universe.。
The ancient people, the biblical world,。
does not concern with scientific questions。
that we concern about.。
So there has to be some way we can bring the two together。
in harmony.。
Again, as I said before, Genesis 1。
is answering the who question, not the how question.。
The how question is answered by scientific enterprise.。
The who question, the theological enterprise,。
is what scripture is trying to do,。
trying to tell us who behind the universe。
and who we should worship.。
In 2020, I mentioned this before,。
Dr. Francis Collins accepted Templeton Prize.。
It was during COVID.。
It was a huge concern, so it was a private kind of event.。
It was live streamed on YouTube.。
And Collins said, as a medical doctor, in his whole life,。
he has been atheistic.。
He doesn't believe in God.。
And then one day, he was challenged by his patient.。
And then it just dawned on him that science did not help much。
with the profound question of meaning.。
What do you live for?。
The meaning of life, the value, right?。
Science cannot offer much help.。
And Collins said, at that time, he。
realized his atheism is dangerously thin.。
He was quoting Chesterton, one of the great theologians。
in the 19th century.。
He said, atheism is the most daring of all dogmas。
because it is the assertion of universal negative.。
There's no God.。
So he became a believer in two years,。
something written by C.S. Lewis and talking to other people.。
And then finally came to faith in Jesus Christ.。
Take notice of the acceptance speech.。
The title is "In Praise of Harmony."。
Harmony between science-- he's a top-notch scientist--。
and faith, an evangelical Bible-believing question,。
these two can go together.。
So these two, faith and reason, can go hand in hand.。
And I hope this is your experience as well.。
There's no need to just deny human reasoning when we come。
to faith in Jesus Christ.。
So virgin birth is beyond our finite human reasoning.。
It is beyond.。
But that does not mean it's unreasonable.。
That does not mean it's irrational.。
When something goes beyond our finite reasoning,。
we do not need to conclude that this is irrational.。
It can be-- probably the best term。
is trans-rational, beyond our rationality.。
Our brain is finite.。
Our mind is finite.。
But God can go beyond all of this,。
surpassing our finite rationality.。
In fact, when the angel announces the virgin birth。
to Mary, how did Mary respond?。
Luke 1, 29.。
"Mary was greatly troubled by what the angel said to her。
and wondered what kind of greeting this might be.。
But the angel said to her, 'Do not be afraid, Mary.。
You have found favor with God.。
You will be with child and give birth to a son.。
And you are to call his name Jesus.。
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High.。
The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David.。
And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever.。
His kingdom will never end.'。
And Mary responded by saying, 'How will this be?。
How will this be since I am a virgin?'"。
The angel continues.。
"The Holy Spirit will come upon you, will have power on you.。
So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God.。
Even Elizabeth, your relative, is。
going to have a child, another miracle child,。
in her old age, which is John the Baptist.。
She who was said to be barren is in her sixth month.。
For nothing is impossible with God.。
I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered.。
Finally, she obeyed.。
And she said, 'May it be to me as you have said.'"。
Mary's faith, Mary's obedience, the first step。
to take in what the angel has said to her,。
what God is going to do through her life.。
Now, here's the first takeaway, the doctrine of virgin birth.。
First, Jesus came to this world in a humble manner.。
That's why we come to God.。
We come to Jesus.。
We need to be humble as well.。
Now, I don't have a picture here in Israel,。
in the town of Bethlehem.。
Today, there is a church called Church of Holy Nativity.。
Holy Nativity, meaning remembering the birth of Jesus.。
You walk in that church, it used to be a really, really big door。
to welcome people.。
But century after century, there's renovation,。
there's changes to the door or the structure of the church.。
Now, it became a really, really small door.。
And you have to duck to go in.。
And the door is called the door of humility.。
You come to see the birth of Jesus, the place he was birthed,。
according to traditions.。
And your first action you need to do is to be humble.。
And that's the first takeaway.。
And God is infinite, and he's beyond our finite mind.。
Yes, we cannot understand how it works,。
but God demands our humble trust.。
So there's nothing irrational about Jesus' birth.。
Yeah, it's trans-rational.。
But I think the second takeaway is from another passage。
talking about the virgin birth of Jesus。
in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 2.。
Now, you know what happened here is that Joseph and Mary,。
they're traveling from their workplace in Nazareth。
in the north and all the way to Bethlehem。
while Mary was still pregnant.。
What happened was the Roman Empire。
imposed some sort of taxation census.。
So everybody has to go to their hometown to register.。
It's kind of an imperial policy.。
So those who are being oppressed by Joseph and Mary,。
the normal, typical Judeans, they。
have to go back to the hometown.。
This is how the story goes, chapter 2, verse 4.。
So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee。
to Judea, to Bethlehem, his hometown, town of David,。
because he belonged to the line or house of David.。
He went there to register with Mary, who。
was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child.。
While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born.。
And she gave birth to her firstborn, a son.。
She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in the manger。
because there was no room for them in the inn.。
Or I guess the better translation is the guesthouse.。
No matter how you understand it, maybe there's。
a Motel 6 in Bethlehem, and it was full.。
There was no vacancy for them.。
Or they couldn't book the Airbnb at Bethlehem。
or whatever that is.。
I think it can be translated properly as a guesthouse。
because in the typical Palestinian house, even today,。
sometimes-- so often, they have two floors.。
And the upper floor, as you can see in this reconstruction,。
is the guest room, the bedrooms.。
It's up there.。
Down there, the lower level, is where the manger is,。
where the production happens.。
They would cook, or they would have the animals in there,。
especially in wintertime.。
They would keep them warm.。
That's how a typical Palestinian house looks like.。
And the guest room, the Gospel of Luke says, has no room.。
Now, you can imagine in that sort of census。
across the Roman Empire, everybody。
is going to their hometown.。
And it's so crowded.。
There were other relatives, there。
were other friends who were staying at the so-called Airbnb。
on the second floor.。
And Mary showed up with Joseph.。
And he was about to give birth, right?。
So she went down to the first floor.。
However you want to interpret it, in or guest room,。
it really doesn't matter because the message is the same.。
He was born in the manger, down there, where the animals are.。
Not in the palace.。
That's another takeaway.。
The Son of God came to our world, our broken world,。
in the manger.。
We draw close to God every Sunday.。
We better check our attitude when we come to worship.。
Sometimes we come to worship as if we come to a concert.。
Sometimes we come to worship as if we are watching a show.。
There's always customer reveal at the end,。
because I'm the center.。
I come to be entertained.。
I come to be--。
somebody has to satisfy me, right?。
Well, we go to a restaurant after worship service,。
go to a restaurant if the service is bad, right?。
What do you do?。
You walk away, right?。
What do you do?。
You give them one star, right?。
But not so in the church.。
Not so in worship.。
Worship is all about exalting God.。
And we come and we bow.。
We need to learn the lesson of humility,。
because the Son of God came as a lowly, lowly man,。
born in the manger.。
Next, we should consider what the Catholic tradition has。
to say about Mary.。
That's another takeaway.。
Now, the Apostles' Creek, as you can tell,。
is different from creeks or statements。
issued by the Catholic tradition.。
In the Catholic tradition, in the general official teaching。
of the Catholic church, Mary is the co-redeemer.。
Mary is the co-redeemer who brings the Messiah。
into the world, right?。
And Mary, accordingly, was sinless.。
The perpetual virginity of Mary--。
you've probably heard of that--。
she remains pure in the rest of her life.。
And some traditions in the Catholic teaching,。
Mary never died.。
She fell asleep, and she was taken up to heaven.。
Now, all of this are unfortunate,。
because as you can see, there's no biblical warrant。
for all this teaching or all this concept.。
There's nothing intrinsically special about Mary.。
Now, in Jesus' day, Mary was probably a high school girl--。
16, 17, or even 15, 14-year-old, right?。
This is a young girl, young Hebrew faithful girl.。
The angel told her, Messiah will come through you.。
And she responded with obedience, with faith.。
So there's nothing intrinsically special about Mary.。
It's not about Mary's status.。
What is praiseworthy about Mary is not about herself.。
What is praiseworthy is about her faith.。
It's her obedience.。
That is special.。
Luke 1, 45-- Elizabeth was meeting with Mary.。
Both of them are pregnant.。
And Elizabeth, you remember, was pregnant with John the Baptist,。
the cousin of Jesus.。
And then Mary was pregnant about to give birth to Jesus.。
Both mothers met together.。
And Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist,。
speaks about Mary in this manner--。
45-- "Blessed is she who believes."。
Blessed is she who believes.。
It's her faith that matters.。
It's her faith that is our example.。
Now, I don't know your relationship with God recently.。
Maybe God is calling you to do something,。
to witness to someone, to serve in a certain capacity.。
No matter what God is calling you, maybe you're struggling.。
Maybe you're waiting.。
I'll tell you this.。
God is advancing His plan through you.。
God will.。
But you're called to obey.。
You're called to respond.。
It's your faith that matters.。
Sometimes we struggle with the calling of God.。
Well, this is mundane, right?。
Mundane stuff I'm doing, maybe in my workplace,。
maybe in my family.。
Just go through the routine day after day and day after day.。
Nothing is really happening, right?。
But think about it.。
She who believed, she said yes to God.。
Yes, your will be done.。
And God-- only then God can use us in our neighborhood,。
in our church, in our workplace.。
We just say yes to God.。
All the details, God will figure out.。
But you need to trust in Him, right?。
Whether you're moving away, whether you're。
serving or stick to some sort of commitment, trust in God.。
And God will work out the details.。
All right, let's pray together.。
Father God, we give you thanks for you。
are working in this world.。
Sometimes we cannot see it.。
And most of the time, you seem invisible.。
But in scripture, story after story, page after page,。
you tell us you are faithful.。
And you are actively doing something.。
And you want to do it through us.。
And we pray that no matter what we are struggling with,。
give us faith.。
Give us the-- just to fully trust in you,。
that you will be working out your purposes in our lives.。
You will be fulfilling your plan in our lives.。
We pray that we will learn to be faithful.。
We will learn to trust in you.。
Thank you for being our faithful, faithful father.。
Thank you for being our loving God.。
In Christ, we pray.。
Amen.。
Well, God bless you.。
And remember, happy--。
