Alright family, we are back and we are once again in Matthew chapter 6.。
Continue to look at this kingdom values study that we've been going through for a while.。
Looking at the values of the kingdom of heaven that Jesus wants us, if we are his disciples,。
his followers, if we are subjects of the kingdom, then he wants us to live out these values.。
In the past few weeks we've been talking about hypocrisy and how Jesus in the first part。
of Matthew 6 is calling us to avoid hypocrisy.。
He's pointing out how damaging and devastating it is in our lives.。
He's also pointing out a little bit just how silly and foolish it can be for us to live。
as hypocrites and yet it's clearly something that all of us as humans do.。
And as we talked about a few weeks ago, as humans we're all experts at it.。
We all are hypocrites.。
That hypocrisy can also easily come into our life as followers of Jesus.。
It can easily come into our faith and when it does it can have absolutely devastating。
consequences.。
And last week we talked some about that.。
How if maybe we've been hurt by hypocrisy in the church, maybe we've been hurt by someone。
else who treated us with hypocrisy or someone who lived hypocrisy in front of us and maybe。
it damaged our faith in Jesus or maybe it just hurt us in some way.。
We talked about ways that we can get past that.。
We can redirect our focus back to Jesus and we can begin to experience forgiveness even。
for those who have hurt us.。
We can begin to take those misplaced standards and misplaced expectations and misplaced pain.。
We can see that Jesus is not the source of our pain.。
Jesus is not the source of hypocrisy or self-righteousness.。
That's never something that Jesus called his people to live out.。
Jesus wants us to live out the opposite.。
He wants us to live out authenticity and transparency and honesty and love for one another.。
And we can learn to walk in forgiveness.。
And this week we're going to talk about something that's probably going to be a little bit more。
convicting for us, a little bit more challenging.。
It's going to hit a little bit closer to home for us and that is the hypocrisy that we exhibit。
in our own lives.。
Last week we were more talking about hypocrisy that someone else has exhibited and how that。
might have affected us.。
But this week we're going to focus on our own hypocrisy and how we live it out and how。
we are dishonest about the fact that we're living it out and how much it hurts us and。
hurts the people around us.。
So let's jump into this here.。
We're looking specifically at verses five and six of Matthew chapter six today, but。
we're going to go ahead and read the first four verses as well just to give us kind of。
a big picture of what Jesus is saying here.。
So it says this, "Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order。
to be seen by them.。
For then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.。
Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you as the hypocrites do, in。
the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others.。
Truly I say to you, they have received their reward.。
But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is。
doing, so that your giving may be in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward。
you.。
And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray。
in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others.。
Truly I say to you, they have received their reward.。
But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in。
secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward you.。
Now as we've discussed hypocrisy the last few weeks, we've kind of defined it out of。
this passage.。
And we've defined it in a few ways.。
We've defined it as pretending to be something we're not, or acting as if we are something。
that we're not.。
And we've defined it as deceiving ourselves or others into thinking that we can meet God's。
standard of holiness, that we can be who God wants us to be, when we can't meet that standard。
and we don't.。
Not on our own, not without Christ.。
With Christ living through us, we can, because Jesus lived the perfect life.。
But on our own, we can't.。
And when we deceive ourselves into thinking we can, that's hypocrisy.。
And then another great definition of hypocrisy that we pull straight out of scripture is。
from Luke chapter 18, verse 9.。
And this is Jesus telling a parable, and it says, "He also told this parable to some who。
trusted in themselves that they were righteous and treated others with content."。
And I think that's a great definition of hypocrisy as well.。
Trusting in ourselves that we're righteous and treating others with content.。
And we've also defined it as putting the spotlight on us, wanting to glorify ourselves instead。
of glorifying God.。
We talked about the distinction between Matthew 5, 16, where Jesus tells us to let our light。
shine before men so that they will see our good works and glorify our Father in heaven.。
And then here in Matthew 6, 1, where he says that don't do things to be seen by others.。
God doesn't want us to do things to glorify ourselves, to put the focus on us.。
He wants us to do things to glorify him and put the focus on him so that people will see。
him, so that Jesus will be seen through our lives and that God will be glorified and people。
will be drawn to Christ.。
And today I want us to think about a few different aspects of what we're actually doing when。
we live dishonestly, when we pretend that we're something that we're not, when we pretend。
to be more righteous than we are, when we pretend that we're the ones who are going。
to fulfill God's standard.。
When we do that, we're living out hypocrisy.。
But sometimes we think it may not be that big of a deal.。
It's okay if people think I'm a little bit better than I am.。
And we don't see how serious that can be in our life.。
We don't see what's actually at the root of it and what's actually taking place.。
So we're going to talk about that today.。
And the first thing I want us to see is that when we live out hypocrisy, there is a matter。
of stolen glory involved.。
Stolen glory.。
Because we know if we understand the scripture that all glory belongs to God.。
God is the creator.。
God is the redeemer.。
God is the one who loves us and gave himself for us.。
That's what the scripture tells us.。
The glory belongs to him.。
And yet we as humans have a desire to steal some of that glory for ourselves.。
We want the focus to be on us.。
We want the attention to be on us.。
We want to glorify ourselves.。
That's our pride.。
We talked about that the first week that we spoke about hypocrisy.。
How pride is the root of our hypocrisy.。
And that pride causes us to want to steal some of God's glory and redirect it at ourselves.。
And that was the sin of the devil in the beginning.。
Remember he wanted to be like the most high and that's why he rebelled against God.。
That's what he tempted Adam and Eve with in the garden.。
He said, "Hey, don't you want to be like God and know good and evil?"。
And that's a core temptation for us in our life every day.。
And it's certainly the root of hypocrisy is that temptation to say, "I want to be like。
God.。
I want to be the center of attention.。
I want to steal some of His glory.。
I want to be full of pride and focus everything on myself."。
And that's what we're doing when we begin to live in a way where we're pretending to。
be something that we're not.。
We're stealing the glory that belongs to God and trying to direct it on ourselves.。
We see this in this verse here where Jesus says that the hypocrites love to stand and。
pray in the synagogues and at the street corners that they may be seen by others.。
And all of us have that in us.。
We want to do our good works.。
We want to do things to be seen by others.。
We want others to see what we're doing.。
We want to do it in front of others.。
We want to do it before others so that they will see us and regard us as good and regard。
us as special, regard us as righteous, and in some way glorify us.。
That's what we want.。
That's at the root of our hypocrisy.。
We want to do those things before others.。
Now some of us may say, "Well, I don't do that."。
You know, the examples that Jesus gives us here are pretty over the top, right?。
When He talks about someone giving to the needy, He says that they're sounding a trumpet。
in the street to draw attention to themselves so everybody will see it and to amplify what。
they're doing.。
When He talks about people praying, He says they're standing and praying on the street。
corner loudly so that everybody will look.。
We may say, "Okay, wait a second.。
I don't do that.。
You know, when I help someone out, I don't sound a trumpet.。
I don't go out and pray in the middle of the street so that people will see what I'm doing."。
But Jesus is pointing out not just the specific situation.。
He's pointing out the heart behind it.。
And we definitely share that heart behind it.。
I mean, let's be honest.。
Probably none of us have ever gone out and sounded a trumpet before we did something。
to help someone else.。
But I can't think of very many ways at all to more powerfully and visibly focus attention。
on ourselves than to use some of our modern technology, right?。
And we do it.。
We go out to serve.。
We go out to help at the soup kitchen or the shelter or this place or that place.。
And we use our social media or some other form of technology to let everybody know what。
we're doing.。
That's really the modern equivalent of sounding the trumpet, right?。
And again, I'm not saying that it's wrong for us to let other people see our good works.。
Matthew 5:16 says we should let others see our good works, but they should see it in。
such a way that the glory is focused on God.。
So I'm not saying it's wrong for you to take a picture of something you're doing and share。
it with other people.。
That's fine.。
But if your heart motivation in doing that is to focus people on yourselves, to glorify。
yourself, then you're sounding a trumpet.。
You're doing it in order to glorify yourself.。
And that is wrong.。
That's what Jesus calls out in this passage.。
And we see this replete throughout our culture and our society.。
Think about it.。
The celebrities, all of the politicians, all of the people in our culture and society,。
that they won't even show up to help.。
They won't even do something unless the cameras are going to be there.。
If it's not a photo op, then to them it never even happened.。
It's not worth doing if no one's going to know about it.。
And sometimes we live that way ourselves.。
We think, "Well, yeah, I kind of want to be a part of this, but I'm so busy.。
Oh, but someone else is going to be there and they're going to see me doing it.。
Yeah, that makes it a lot more appealing to me."。
Or, "I'll have an opportunity to share it with other people and they'll know what I'm。
doing."。
Yeah, that makes it a bigger deal.。
And that shouldn't make it a bigger deal.。
We should be committed to doing the right and to living in obedience to God and to living。
out what God wants us to do, whether or not it gets noticed by anybody.。
And we should be committed to the fact that if it does get noticed by someone, we should。
direct that attention towards God, not towards ourself.。
But that's a difficult thing to do because we all want to do our good works before others.。
Now some of us might say, "Well, wait a second.。
I'm not even sure that I even try to do good works.。
I don't even know what that means or what that is or that I'm even interested in that."。
Now we've talked about this in the past few weeks, that as believers, as followers of。
Jesus, as subjects of the kingdom, that God is interested in the condition of our heart.。
We don't do good works to earn favor with God.。
We don't do good works to please God.。
We don't do good works to get to heaven.。
None of that.。
We do good works because God is changing our heart.。
If we really have relationship with God through Jesus, God is at work changing our heart.。
And out of that change, out of that transformation, good works come and beautiful good works come.。
But the good works are not the starting point.。
God's change in our heart is the starting point.。
And the good works flow from that.。
They come from that.。
But some people may say, "Well, I'm not interested in good works.。
I'm not interested in trying to be a good person.。
I'm not out there trying to please anybody.。
I'm just doing my own thing and I don't even care what people say about it."。
And that sounds good for a moment.。
It might sound like, "Okay, yeah, I mean, that kind of gets rid of some of the hypocrisy。
and pride, right?。
If you don't care, then you're not going to be a hypocrite."。
But that's not even really true.。
The reality is all of us have some standard of morality that we live by.。
We all have some things that we think are good as opposed to other things that we think。
are bad.。
Even if you say, "Okay, I'm an anarchist, so I don't think there should be any rules。
about what's good in society and I don't think there should be anything that should be a。
good work in society."。
Well, the reality is you have in that position defined a good work, right?。
Because you said that it's good to have no rules and that that's what's best.。
And that if you do try to have rules in society and enforce those rules on other people, then。
that's bad.。
So if you've, from your position, defined a good work and a bad work, even if you say。
that you're an anarchist and you don't care and you don't want any rules and you want。
chaos, you still believe that some things are good and some things are bad.。
All of us do.。
So we can't hide behind the fact that we may say, "Well, I'm not as interested in religion。
or I'm not really caught up in Jesus and so I don't really care, so I'm not a hypocrite."。
That's actually not true.。
All of us have some system of morality, some things that we think are good and some things。
that we think are not good.。
And the reality is whatever that system is for whoever you're talking about, all of us。
as humans want to do the things that we define as good in front of other people so they will。
see them and praise us.。
Even the anarchist wants to go out and create anarchy for other people to see so that other。
people can praise what they're doing.。
All of us do that as humans.。
All of us live in hypocrisy in that way.。
We want to steal God's glory and direct it to ourselves.。
Another way we really see our hypocrisy in stealing God's glory is in this human nature。
of always seeing the problem in someone else and not seeing our own issues.。
We always excuse ourselves and our sin and our injustice and we see the problems of others.。
Jesus talks about this later in the Sermon on the Mount when he talks about the fact。
that we as humans see the little specks of dust in someone else's eye and overlook the。
giant log that's in our own eye.。
And he makes that illustration for us.。
But we do that all the time.。
We say, "Oh, not me.。
I would never do that.。
I would never be a hypocrite.。
I would never do good works in front of others.。
I would never sound a trumpet.。
That's just not me at all."。
And yet we turn around and see what everyone else is doing and point out what they're doing。
and get frustrated about what they're doing.。
We see this so much in our culture all the time.。
You know, right now we're just weeks away from a big election and this is so heavy in。
our politics.。
Hypocrisy is so heavy in our politics.。
It's so heavy right now that you could literally cut it with a knife.。
It's so thick in the air.。
Every other commercial on TV is a political commercial.。
And if we use our definition from Luke 18, 9 where Jesus says that hypocrites are those。
who trust in themselves that they're righteous and treat others with contempt, man, that。
would be a great definition of every single political commercial we see.。
Every commercial you see is a candidate demonstrating by their words and the pictures of themselves。
why they are righteous and why the person they're running against is contemptible.。
And that's exactly what our politics is full of.。
And our politics is full of this "not me" attitude.。
The reality is throughout our politics in both parties there are things that are deeply。
dishonoring to God.。
And yet both parties are full of people who are convinced that they are completely righteous。
and that all the hypocrites and all the sinners are in the other party.。
And that's how everybody acts.。
But the reality is it's not just in our politics.。
That's how we all act as human anyway.。
We are all convinced that the problem is with everybody else.。
It's not me.。
I'm doing right over here, God.。
It's not me.。
Because we have stolen God's glory and we have said, "You know what?。
I'm doing it right.。
I'm getting it right.。
I'm being obedient.。
I'm righteous."。
It's all those other people who are deserving of guilt or shame or punishment or something。
like that.。
But I'm the good person over here.。
We've stolen God's glory.。
The other thing that we steal in our hypocrisy is we want to steal God's throne.。
We want to steal God's rule.。
We want to steal God's control.。
We want to take control of our image.。
We want to take control of how other people perceive us.。
We don't want to admit that we could have a weakness or a failing in any way.。
We don't want anyone to think or imagine that we could ever have a problem.。
So we try to hide it.。
We try to pretend we're something that we're not.。
We practice hypocrisy because we're trying to control our image.。
We're trying to steal God's rulership, God's throne.。
We try to control our success and not by defining success in the way that God has defined it,。
but defining it according to our own definition, which is how other people view us, how much。
we can accomplish and achieve here on the earth in this life.。
And we try to control our success by controlling what other people see of us.。
We try to make sure that we're successful because we give this tightly controlled image。
and perception of ourselves to other people.。
And we are taking away God's control over our life that rightly belongs to God.。
We try to control our righteousness and we do that by trying to redefine what is actually。
right and wrong.。
Like I said earlier, everybody has a standard of morality.。
The only distinction is where that standard comes from.。
Now Christians are unique because our standard comes from beyond ourselves.。
It doesn't come from within us.。
It comes from God's Word.。
It comes from God Himself.。
That's our standard of morality.。
And Christians also are unique because we understand that we can't live up to God's。
standard, that we all fall short and only through Christ can we achieve rightness with。
God.。
But for most people, their standard of morality comes from within themselves.。
They want to be in control of what righteousness is.。
They want to be in control of what right and wrong is.。
And they try to do that by defining it for themselves.。
And they're stealing that throne from God.。
God is the one who says what is right and wrong.。
God is the one who defines righteousness, not us.。
We try to define those standards for ourselves and as we do that, we are stealing away the。
authority that only belongs to God.。
The other thing that we try to steal is our destiny.。
The reality is that Jesus is the only way to God.。
The reality is that the grace of Jesus Christ is the only way to satisfy God's standards.。
Those things are so clear in the Bible.。
There is no other way that we can have relationship with God except through Jesus.。
There's no other way that we can achieve holiness and that we can be right except through Jesus。
Christ.。
And we don't achieve that holiness through our good works.。
We achieve it when we surrender to Christ and His righteousness washes over us and covers。
us.。
And there's no other way apart from that for us to be righteous and to be right with God.。
And yet we don't want that to be true.。
We don't want Jesus to be the only way to God.。
We want to make a way on our own.。
We don't want to believe that we might have to rely on the sacrifice and forgiveness of。
Jesus for righteousness.。
We want to somehow prove ourselves righteous apart from God.。
And as we do that, we try to take control of our eternal destiny in a way that we cannot。
because it only belongs to God.。
Jesus is the only Redeemer.。
And Jesus is the only way for us to experience health and shalom and healing in this world.。
And yet we try every other way.。
And we try to fix things in every other way.。
And it doesn't work, but we keep trying and keep wanting to pull destiny away from God。
and the future of what it means to be human.。
We want to pull that away from God and define it ourselves.。
And we keep failing.。
You know, Jesus in Matthew 5 and 6 and 7 throughout the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is giving us。
this new way to be human, this way of love, this way to love God and love those around。
us.。
And it's really a new way because it's been around since the beginning.。
It's the old way that God called us to in the beginning that we never lived out.。
And so it seemed like a new way when Jesus was expressing it in Matthew 5.。
It seemed like a new way because what people had been living out was their own way.。
And that way was the way of vengeance and retribution.。
Ever since Cain, the first siblings, Cain and Abel, Cain decided, "You know what?。
The way to fix my problems is to take revenge on my brother, is to get him out of the way,。
is to make him hurt.。
And that's what's going to fix things."。
And ever since then, that has been the cycle of humanity.。
People have tried to fix problems with revenge, with retribution, with war, with fighting,。
with violence, with oppression, and with hurt.。
And when someone hurts someone else, people say, "Well, the way to fix that is to hurt。
them right back."。
That's been the story of humanity since the beginning of time.。
That's what we as humans have chosen again and again and again.。
And Jesus has said clearly in the Sermon on the Mount, "No, there's another way.。
I want you to choose the way of love, the way of peace, the way of relationship with。
God, the way of caring for one another."。
Jesus is calling us to that.。
But we don't want that destiny for ourselves.。
We say, "No, God, I want to go back to my way, which is revenge, retribution, getting。
even.。
It's taking my revenge on someone else."。
We try to steal destiny, and we don't have that authority.。
And when we try to do that, it ends in disaster every time.。
And sadly, even though we've seen it end in disaster a thousand times before, we still。
think we're going to try it one more time, and this time it'll actually work, and it'll。
actually come out right, and it'll actually make us feel better.。
And then it doesn't.。
But we still try it again, and we turn back to it again and again.。
We want to pull destiny away from God and try to pull it down to ourselves and think。
that we're going to fix our lives, we're going to fix our future, we're going to fix the。
world, we're going to fix everything.。
And we can't.。
Now, what Jesus is pointing out to us in this passage is that hypocrisy is so damaging,。
it's so devastating, it's so wrong.。
It's ultimately, as we discussed today, a direct attack on God's authority and on who。
God is.。
It's trying to steal from God, and that is completely wrong.。
And what Jesus is pointing us towards is the fact that we have got to avoid it as subjects。
of the kingdom, as followers of Jesus, because it is a powerful and constant temptation to。
us as human beings, and we've got to strive to avoid it.。
So I want us to think about how we can avoid it as we close out today, how we can avoid。
these things.。
We've talked before about the best way that we can avoid pride is by living in a place。
of poverty of spirit, living in a place of seeing and admitting our own spiritual bankruptcy。
before God, seeing and admitting our need for God and saying, "God, I understand that。
I am broken, that I am full of sin in my heart, that I'm full of selfishness, that if I just。
had my own way, I would be hurting other people, I would be trying to glorify myself, I would。
be trying to do all this stuff."。
And when we're able to be honest and transparent before God and see our own brokenness, our。
own need, then that gets rid of that pride and it gets rid of that hypocrisy.。
We've got to do what Jesus suggests in this passage, which is to hide our good works.。
That's actually a really good thing to do, is as much as possible, and this isn't like。
a law, you don't need to try to make it into some hard and fast rule that you have to follow。
in every instance, but as much as possible, when you go out to obey God, just do it in。
a way that other people aren't going to see or aren't going to notice, so that that temptation。
to glorify yourself doesn't take hold.。
When you go out to obey God, you should go out to obey God with the motivation of pleasing。
God and God alone.。
You should go out to obey God because it's the right thing to do.。
You should obey God in your life, whether it's in the privacy of your home or whether。
it's serving in your community in some way, you should do that because it's the right。
thing to do because you want to love God, you want to love others, you want to glorify。
God.。
Don't do it because other people are going to see it and notice it.。
As much as you can, do it in secret.。
Do it so that other people don't know.。
If you're going to go serve in your community, maybe you don't need to take all those pictures。
and post them online.。
Again, that doesn't mean it's wrong to do that, but just think about that.。
Just ask yourself, "Hey, can I do this in a way that the focus is not on me?"。
If someone does notice what you're doing, if someone does notice you serving and obeying。
God, then direct that attention towards God.。
Don't let people just say, "Oh, you're a great person.。
You do such a great job."。
That feels good and there's a part of us that is like, "Yeah, it doesn't really hurt for。
someone to glorify me a little bit, for me to get a little praise, but hey, it's going。
to be damaging to you and to them.。
It's damaging for others to glorify us and to think we're something we're not, and it's。
really damaging for us to think we're something we're not."。
So when you get a little bit of that praise, redirect it to God and be honest and say,。
"Hey, I'm just as broken as anybody else.。
I'm only here doing this because of God's work in my life.。
It's not me.。
I'm not a great person.。
Don't glorify me.。
It's because of God."。
Redirect that praise to Him.。
Don't steal God's glory.。
Don't steal God's throne.。
Don't try to steal God's control or God's rule in your life.。
Don't try to steal the destiny that God has for you.。
Don't try to redirect it into your own will.。
Remember Jesus, here in just a few verses, He gives us the Lord's Prayer.。
What does He pray at the end of the Lord's Prayer?。
"Father, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven."。
Don't try to make that into, "My kingdom come and my will be done."。
That's dangerous and that has devastating consequences.。
Don't steal the control of destiny from God.。
That belongs to God and God alone.。
The throne belongs to God and God alone.。
Glory belongs to God and God alone.。
If we will do these things, if we will seek to live in poverty of spirit, if we'll seek。
to take our hands off of God's glory and God's throne and the destiny that God has for us。
and let God be in control of those things, if we'll be honest and transparent about our。
own weaknesses and our own struggles and our own failings with the people around us, we。
will find ourselves living in a much more authentic way.。
We will find ourselves with very little hypocrisy in our life.。
And that's what Jesus is calling us to in this passage.。
Let's pray.。
God, I pray that you would give us poverty of spirit.。
You would help us to be aware of our own need for you, to be aware of our spiritual bankruptcy,。
the fact that we have nothing before you, the fact that we can't do anything on our。
own apart from you.。
God, I pray that you would help us to be honest about our own sins and our own struggles.。
Help us to be honest with the people around us.。
Help us not to cover things up or to hide things, but help us to be able to be honest。
and say, "Hey, I struggle as well.。
I'm imperfect as well.。
I've messed up too.。
But I need to repent too.。
I need God's help in my life."。
Help us to be honest and transparent with our struggles, God.。
Help us not to operate from a place of pride, but from a place of authenticity, God.。
God, help us not to steal any of your glory.。
Help us not to redirect any of the glory that should go to you towards us, God.。
Help us to always point to you and always live in a place of humility.。
God, help us not to steal your throne, your control, God.。
Help us not to grab that and try to act like we are going to be in charge when we cannot。
be in charge.。
What a disaster that would be if we were in charge, God.。
God, help us not to steal the destiny that you have for us and our world and try to think。
that we should direct that.。
Help us not to think that our will should be done.。
Help us to always desire for your will to be done, God.。
Help us not to put ourselves in a place that we should not be in.。
Help us not to pretend to be something we're not.。
Help us not to think we are righteous and treat others with contempt.。
God, help us to avoid hypocrisy and to live honestly and openly as your disciples in a。
way that glorifies you, God, and that causes people to see you and to desire you and to。
want to know more of who you are because of what they see in our lives, God.。
May you be glorified by the testimony of our lives, and may people see more and more of。
you in us. In Jesus name, Amen.。
