Hey, we are going to continue our mini-series on worship.。
And last time we were talking about Psalm 8, right?。
Yeah, and what a nice Psalm to reflect upon.。
And today we're going to continue this series。
and we are at the beginning of the Bible.。
So if you have your Bible,。
turn to chapter two of the first book, Genesis.。
Chapter two, Genesis, all right?。
We're going to read a part of scripture from chapter two.。
And this is a passage that talks about Garden of Eden.。
Garden of Eden, all right?。
So let me read a couple of verses out of chapter two.。
Chapter two, verse seven.。
Then the Lord God formed the man from the dust of the ground.。
He breathed the breath of life into the man's nostrils。
and the man became a living person.。
Then the Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east.。
And there he placed the man he had made.。
The Lord God made all sorts of trees。
growing up from the ground,。
trees that are beautiful, that produce delicious fruit.。
In the middle of the garden, he placed the tree of life。
and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.。
And verse 15, the Lord God placed the man in the garden。
of Eden to tend and watch over it.。
But the Lord God warned him,。
"You may freely eat the fruit of every tree in the garden,。
"except the tree of knowledge of good and evil.。
"If you eat its fruit, you will surely die."。
Then the Lord God said,。
"It is not good for the man to be alone.。
"I will make a helper who is just right for him."。
This is a simple passage, right?。
Seemingly very simple.。
By the way, I'm reading from a New Living Translation, NLT,。
which is easier to understand for many of you.。
And as we open the opening chapters of the Bible,。
we find a simple story, right?。
How many of you have seen or read a children's Bible?。
Children Bible, kid's Bible.。
Yeah, right?。
Do you find this story in the children Bible?。
You do, right?。
Yeah, it's a must-read story, right?。
And you find a forest, Adam and Eve,。
two people in the garden.。
And it seems like a very, very simple kid's story.。
However, a closer reading,。
or if you read it more carefully,。
you raise a lot of difficult questions,。
a lot of different issues.。
For example, did Adam have belly button?。
He's the first guy, right?。
And he was not born from a mother.。
Who's the mother of Adam?。
No mother, right?。
So how about Eve, right?。
Eve was born or came into existence。
in a very different way, right?。
So do they have belly buttons?。
Or when did they come about, right?。
I mean, a simple, literal reading of scripture。
will have us believe, okay,。
maybe Genesis 1 and 2,。
things that happened just a few thousand years ago, right?。
So we've come to the conclusion, probably,。
that the earth is young, right?。
It's really, really young.。
I mean, how many pages you got, right?。
From creation to Abraham, right?。
It's only 12 chapters, right?。
And what is Adam's DNA?。
Have you ever thought about it?。
Well, Adam is a real man, right?。
I mean, what's his genes, right?。
And Eve, and is the Garden of Eden on the Google map?。
Can you find it?。
Can you find it somewhere in the Middle East, maybe?。
In Iraq?。
Or let the archaeologists take it up, right?。
So a simple reading will have us believe。
this is a children's story.。
But a careful reading, it weighs a lot of questions.。
And I think a lot of questions that we ask,。
or the questions that I ask,。
you can't find answer from Genesis 1, 2, and 3.。
Because the scripture, Genesis 1, 2, and 3,。
are not designed to answer some of our,。
or many of our modern questions, right?。
It is designed to answer a couple of important questions.。
Very important, more important。
than the questions that we ask, all right?。
So reading the Bible is kind of like this, okay?。
We have to come to a certain strategy,。
understand what the Bible is all about, right?。
Otherwise, we'll ask a lot of different questions。
that the Bible is not going to answer, right?。
So we have to listen to the text.。
We have to listen to the Bible,。
listen to the word of God carefully,。
and let it dictate what it's trying to say.。
And we are here to listen and to obey.。
That is our attitude in front of scripture, right?。
Before the Bible, we are servants,。
and we listen to the word of God.。
So how do we read Genesis 1, 2, and 3?。
Simple story, but actually a very deep story.。
I think the story in Genesis 1, 2, and 3,。
and we'll spend some time in Genesis 2,。
are much like a symbolic story, you know, symbolic story.。
It's like a can full of different symbols,。
and these symbols have deeper meanings,。
and we have to ask the questions,。
what do they point to, right?。
My analogy of reading the Bible is like reading a map, okay?。
Do you have Google Map on your phone?。
Or some sort of GPS app on your phone, right?。
And you key in your destination, and it will show you,。
you know, where to turn, right?。
Which road to take, which highway to take,。
which exit to take, Google Map, right?。
We all read maps, and sometimes when we read maps,。
we kind of intuitively, we understand what the map means,。
right?。
Reading the Bible is kind of like reading a map.。
Let me give you an example.。
I have three examples here.。
On the right is a Chicago map.。
Upper left is a map of Hong Kong, right, where I came from.。
And then lower left is, do you know where it is?。
It's Tokyo, Japan, right?。
Why do I put a Japan map on the screen?。
Because a lot of people telling me,。
oh, I need to go to Japan, you know?。
(audience laughs)。
Oh, the currency exchange rate is so good, right?。
Everybody's going to Japan, okay?。
So there you go, all right?。
So you read a map, we kind of, we read it intuitively.。
We understand what it means, right?。
For example, upper left, the map in Hong Kong,。
I add the layer of traffic.。
So you see all the highways, right?。
You see different colors.。
You know, red means it's very congested.。
Black is totally stopped, right?。
Yellow is kind of congested,。
and then green is all smooth, right?。
Those are traffic map, right?。
So you add a layer, you understand the symbols,。
you understand the color of the lines,。
and then you interpret the map。
the way it is intended to, right?。
You got it?。
And then at the lower left is the Tokyo map.。
It's a terrain map, terrain.。
Where the mountain, where the valleys, right?。
You see Fuji mountain on the map.。
On the, it's at the lower left corner, right?。
Mount Fuji.。
So it shows you where the hills are,。
where the mountains are, where the valleys are, right?。
And they color it, right?。
For the plane, for the level, ground level,。
or elevation zero, right, sea level, you see white.。
And then you climb the mountain, you see green,。
and then there's a black spot, right?。
Those are higher elevation.。
That's a terrain map, right?。
And then on the right is, of course, the Chicago map.。
Where are we?。
Where are we on the map?。
We're kind of in the near south.。
You see the pink color?。
You know where you are?。
Come on, guys, right?。
You know where you are?。
All right, you're not in green, okay?。
You're right by the lake, right?。
You see Navy Pier?。
You see that?。
Oh, come on, right?。
This is elementary questions, right?。
Yeah, we're kind of in the near south,。
the lower end of the pink region, right?。
So the map has you, different color, right?。
So the map is coded in such a way that you know,。
okay, this is the near south, this is the north,。
and this is the region, or how we call it, right?。
You don't take the map, this color map of Chicago,。
and you go out to the street and say,。
"How come it's not pink?"。
Pink!。
I'm expecting the road to be all pink, right?。
Because we're in the near south, right?。
We don't do that, right?。
Because we intuitively, we know that what it means is that,。
okay, the pink area is simple meaning,。
well, this neighborhood belong to the same region, right?。
To the same area.。
Now, we don't go out and use a Google map and say,。
"Oh, the line is blue, and I don't see any blue line," right?。
It shows you with legends, with different color coding,。
or different symbols to tell you some aspect。
of the reality, right?。
Now, no map can tell you everything, right?。
You cannot go back to the map maker and say,。
"Hey, why didn't you answer my questions?。
"Why didn't you tell me the terrain?"。
Right?。
Well, it's not terrain map, right?。
It's a color code map.。
It tells you all the 77 neighborhoods of Chicago,。
and what do they call, right?。
And that is the purpose of a map.。
Now, you cannot fault the maker by saying,。
"You don't tell me the reality comprehensively.。
"You don't answer all my questions."。
Now, it's much the same way when we read the Bible story.。
No Bible story will tell you everything.。
No text in the Bible, no passage in the Bible。
will answer every single question that you have, right?。
Now, your questions or your concern。
when you read the Word of God is let that passage。
dictate the questions to ask.。
And listen to the passage, listen to the words.。
What are they trying to tell you?。
Now, the Bible does not answer all the questions。
that we have, and you cannot say,。
"Okay, the Bible is flawed."。
That's not what it means, because it tells you。
some aspects of the reality.。
So reading Genesis 2 is kind of like reading a map.。
We have to understand what kind of map it is,。
what kind of text it is.。
I already told you the Garden of Eden story。
is highly symbolic story, and use different symbols,。
like a map, using different color codes。
to tell you some truths of the reality, all right?。
What I'm trying to suggest to you。
is that Genesis 1, 2, and 3, the opening chapters of Genesis。
or even the first 11 chapters, or many other passages,。
especially Genesis opening chapters,。
they are identity document.。
The text is trying to answer the core question。
of identity, human identity.。
In other words, who am I, right?。
Who am I?。
Okay, I'm Mark Chan, but who am I?。
Why do I even exist?。
What am I here for, right?。
What is the purpose of me being here?。
My existence, my purpose, you know?。
Now, so often we can make up answers。
to all of these identity questions,。
but the truth is we have to ask the creator God,。
he created you, and we owe our lives to him.。
We have to ask him how to answer those questions.。
So there we go, we come to Genesis 2.。
It is a story on Garden of Eden.。
It's a highly symbolic story.。
It doesn't, when I say the story,。
the Bible story is highly symbolic,。
it does not make it less historical.。
It does not make it less real, okay?。
Just like the color code map,。
it does not make Chicago less real or less historical.。
It is telling you something about the reality of Chicago.。
It's a color code map.。
It's the same way, Genesis 2, the Garden of Eden story,。
it's a real story.。
It's written in such a way that it's symbolic,。
right, understanding a map, different legends and colors.。
So we read the story, we have to try to think,。
you know, what the biblical author,。
or what God is trying to say through this passage.。
Well, let me test you, all right?。
You like a pop quiz, right?。
Think of Garden of Eden.。
Now, the Garden of Eden has an entrance, all right?。
Just like church has an entrance, right?。
Where, which direction does the entrance。
of Garden of Eden face?。
East, okay, very good, Jin Fang, very good.。
Good student.。
No question about it, right?。
East, right?。
Okay, second question.。
Who is guarding the entrance to Eden?。
Who is at the door?。
So you walk in our church, right?。
There is some people guarding the door, right?。
Some of the core team members,。
or some of the welcome team people.。
But who's guarding the entrance of the Garden of Eden?。
Who?。
What, I'm sorry?。
Give it a shot.。
Okay, anyone give it a try?。
It's cherubim.。
Who's that guy?。
Cherubim.。
Cherubim is one of the angels, all right?。
Cherubim, all right, got it?。
Cherubim, say it, cherubim, all right?。
There are at least two cherubims。
guarding the entrance of Garden of Eden.。
Now, you say, why is it important?。
All right, okay, the entrance of Garden of Eden。
is facing east, okay?。
The place of sunrise, all right?。
Now, in the Bible world,。
all the temples, all the sacred places,。
their entrances face east.。
They all face east.。
All the sanctuaries in the Bible world face east,。
the place of sunrise.。
And at the entrance, facing east,。
is often guarded by some sort of angelic beings,。
some sort of creatures.。
Those creatures are shaped in such a way。
that gives you power,。
because who's guarding the door, right?。
It cannot be a little kid, right?。
It has to be someone who is strong and who is powerful, right?。
And cherubim is kind of like that, right?。
Now, let me tell you, much later in the Bible,。
a tabernacle, a tabernacle is actually a portable tent, right?。
Remember the Israelites came out of Egypt, right?。
They were in the wilderness, in the desert,。
and God is living among them in the form of tabernacle.。
So he designed the tabernacle,。
and Moses and all those people, they built the tent, right?。
And you can pack the tent, and then you go somewhere else,。
and then you pitch a tent, and then God is there.。
And then when you are about to go to another station,。
and then you pack the tent, and then you pitch the tent.。
That is tabernacle.。
Tabernacle, the entrance of tabernacle.。
What direction does it face?。
What direction?。
The entrance of tabernacle.。
You know that?。
East, okay?。
East, yeah, I told you already, right?。
East, right?。
And then after the wilderness, many years,。
they came, settled down, the Israelites came,。
settled down in the land of Canaan,。
and eventually they made Jerusalem the capital.。
And remember who built the first temple?。
Solomon, right?。
Solomon, come on, guys.。
Solomon, wake up.。
Almost noon.。
Solomon, right?。
The son of David, right?。
He built the first temple, Solomon's temple, in Jerusalem.。
And the entrance of Jerusalem temple,。
which direction does it face?。
East, yeah, yeah, exactly.。
Exactly, it face east, right?。
And then the entrances of tabernacle and temple。
are guarded by, who's guarding the door?。
What's his name?。
Cherubim, right?。
Cherubim, okay?。
So you find decoration of cherubim in the tabernacle,。
especially the entrance to the holy place.。
And then in the temple of Solomon,。
is also guarded by two cherubim, 1 Kings chapter six.。
There are two cherubims, angelic beings,。
guarding the door, right?。
Facing east.。
Now what did I say in the beginning?。
The God of Eden, facing east.。
Yes, yes, there you go.。
And who's guarding the door?。
Cherubim, okay, cherubim.。
And then you find all sorts of different things。
in chapter two of Genesis.。
You got flowers, you got trees,。
you got all this beautiful nature,。
and gold and silver and all this precious stones.。
Where did you find it other than God of Eden?。
You find decoration of all those things in tabernacle,。
and in much later, the temple of Solomon, right?。
So in that way, you understand。
the God of Eden is actually a sanctuary.。
It is at least described in such a way,。
using later terms to describe the prototype。
of sanctuary, a holy place.。
Now what is a sanctuary for?。
For worship, yes, for worship, right?。
We're talking about worship in this series, right?。
So right at the beginning, God is telling us。
when God set up the universe,。
when God put man, humanity, in the God of Eden,。
his purpose is for men and women, humanity, to worship him.。
You got it, right?。
So don't even come to the God of Eden story。
and say, "Oh, this is like my backyard, you know?。
"I can do barbecue here, right?。
"I can grow some flowers, you know, I can enjoy it."。
No, it's a sacred place.。
It's like a temple.。
It's like a sanctuary, right?。
Facing east and guarded by cherub, who?。
Cherubim, okay?。
Cherubim, it's a sacred place.。
It's where God dwells.。
God lives there, right?。
Now you have heard me before, maybe some time before,。
when you read Genesis 1, you know, six day of creation。
or even seven day creation.。
What is that about?。
It's not answering some of the scientific questions。
that we have today.。
It's trying to tell you why it exists。
and what is the purpose of the entire universe,。
entire cosmos that God set up.。
Seven days, right?。
What other buildings would take seven period of time to build?。
Temples, temples.。
In the Bible world or even within the Bible,。
when Solomon built the temple,。
it spent seven period of time, right?。
And building the tabernacle.。
Seven paragraphs to talk about building the tabernacle.。
So Genesis 1, the first story,。
it's not about geology or science or anything that we ask.。
It's about why this universe exists.。
Seven day, God set up the cosmos.。
So the entire cosmos is like a temple.。
It's like God dwelling in the universe.。
The entire universe, the entire cosmos,。
it's a sacred place.。
It's like a holy place.。
God meant to dwell in the midst of it, right?。
Talking about creation care, right?。
Talking about environmental care.。
You know, Genesis 1 already right off the bat telling you,。
you know, this world is the cosmos set up by God himself。
to create a design in such a way that is sacred, right?。
That is holy, that he can dwell in it.。
And then chapter two, the camera zoom in。
into one spot in the entire cosmos called Garden of Eden.。
It's the first sanctuary.。
It's the prototype of sanctuary.。
And did I say, did I tell you。
the document is the identity document?。
Right?。
So the passage is trying to answer。
questions about your identity.。
Who am I, right?。
Now, when you get to know someone, a new friend,。
how do you introduce yourself?。
You tell them kind of who you are, right?。
Where you're from, what do you do, right?。
And those answers are identity.。
Say for example, you're a student and you say,。
"Oh, hello, I'm a student."。
And maybe your career, right?。
I will tell people, you know, I'm a pastor.。
And they go like, "Whoa."。
Right?。
You may be an accountant.。
You may be a teacher.。
You may be just a housewife or chef in a restaurant.。
Or we answer the identity questions。
by telling people what we do.。
What we do.。
But here's the problem.。
If we fix our identity, if we define our identity,。
anchor our identity simply by what we do,。
it's gonna change, right?。
It's gonna change.。
Before I was a pastor, I was a lab chemist.。
You know, I work in a environmental lab。
and I do testing for water and all those stuff。
because I studied biochemistry in my undergrad, right?。
So, you know, thank God I graduated and I found a job.。
So I was working in a lab.。
So every single day, eight hours, nine hours a day,。
I'm doing testing all the time, right?。
And I was called to ministry and then I went to seminary。
and I became a minister, right?。
See, my identity changed from a chemist to a pastor, right?。
And then someday I will retire.。
After I retire, am I still a pastor?。
Well, yes and no, right?。
Yes and no, I'm not pay staff of a certain church.。
But, you know, maybe part of me is saying,。
okay, I'm still a pastor.。
But, you know, you know what I'm saying, right?。
You know what I'm saying?。
When you answer questions about your essential identity,。
you know, things change all the time.。
And Genesis 2 is trying to answer that question.。
What is your essential identity?。
And the Bible gives us a solid answer.。
I'm God's creation.。
I'm designed and created by God wonderfully。
and fearfully made.。
I'm a child of God.。
I'm in Christ, right?。
I'm part of the people of God, right?。
Would that change?。
Would that identity change?。
No, because God does not change, right?。
Once you are a child of God,。
you're always the child of God.。
Yesterday, today, tomorrow, eternally.。
You're always the child of God.。
You're always worthy in God's sight.。
You have worth from someone who never changed,。
God himself.。
Once you anchor your identity。
into something that is unchanging,。
that is our eternal God, our creator God,。
God who loves you, God who cares for you,。
your identity is secure.。
You see what I'm saying, right?。
So we are the people of God,。
and you are a child of God once you are in Christ.。
We are the church, and that anchor is eternal.。
That identity never change.。
Now, back to this story.。
God of Eden is an identity document.。
What does it tell us about our identity?。
2.15, chapter two, verse 15.。
"The Lord God plays the man,"。
and by the way, here is the man, right?。
The man, the Adam, right?。
The Adam, right?。
So Adam is kind of interesting.。
He's a unique character, right?。
But Adam is actually, everyone is in Adam.。
He represent the whole mankind.。
He represent the whole humanity.。
So when you read the story of Adam and even Eve,。
you're reading a story for every man and every woman, right?。
I read myself into it.。
What does it tell you about the essence。
of being a human being, right?。
Being Adam, right?。
Being a human being.。
"The Lord God plays the man," the human,。
"in the garden of Eden to tend and watch over it," right?。
He said, "What is so important about those verbs?。
"To tend and to watch over it," right?。
Now, the early rabbis, the Jewish rabbis,。
already realized these words, this phrase,。
is kind of interesting phrase,。
because this phrase, "to tend and to watch over,"。
are used for priests who are working in the sanctuary.。
Right?。
How do you describe the job description。
of a priest working in the temple or sanctuary?。
That's how they describe it.。
In Numbers 3, verse seven, it talks about the Levites.。
Levites are those sacred personnel。
being called to minister in the tabernacle.。
It says, "They," the Levites,。
"will serve Aaron," the high priest,。
"and the whole community,。
"performing their sacred duties in and around the tabernacle."。
Now, I underline the word "performing."。
You can do some matching, and that is Genesis 2, 15,。
the word translated "ten," right?。
And the Italic word, can you see that?。
The Levites will serve Aaron.。
They will serve, the Italic word is matching, "watch over."。
In Hebrew, they are the same words, right?。
So it's very interesting.。
We realize when you go to Genesis 2,。
talking about humanity,。
they're being placed in the first sanctuary,。
Garden of Eden, their job is like a priest,。
to worship God.。
And what do the priests do in the sanctuary, in tabernacle?。
They offer sacrifices, they clean up the place,。
they make sure the temple,。
the sacred place is running, is operating,。
and to have fellowship with God.。
And most of all, the job of the priest。
is to guard the sacred place,。
guard the temple against anything evil,。
or anything secular,。
anything that does not belong to the tabernacle,。
guarding against those things coming in.。
So it's like setting a boundary,。
set a boundary around the sacred place,。
around the place of worship,。
so that unclean, profane, secular things。
will not enter the house of God,。
because the sanctuary is where God dwells, right?。
So now we understand, okay?。
Genesis 2 is talking about Garden of Eden。
is a sanctuary, it's like a temple.。
And our identity being placed in the Garden of Eden。
is like a priest, right?。
Like a priest.。
We worship God.。
That is the original design.。
You see, in the world of the Bible,。
the highest honor that a human person can have。
is being a priest.。
Someone who's close to God, right?。
Someone who has fellowship with God, to worship God.。
And in order to worship God,。
we must first have a right relationship with God.。
And who is God to you?。
That is also identity question, right?。
If God is your God, God is the one you worship,。
then you fix that identity,。
because I belong to God, and God created me,。
and I'm people of God,。
and worship flows out of that kind of relationship.。
I have God with a right relationship,。
and flows out of that relationship with God,。
I worship Him, right?。
In the 17th century, 1646, many years ago,。
many centuries ago, some centuries ago,。
there was a document called Salted Catechism,。
Westminster Salted Catechism.。
Now, what does it do?。
That's a pretty interesting word, catechism.。
We don't use it anymore, right?。
It's actually a document that the Bible teachers draft。
in those days to help the new believers。
to get to know the basics of their faith.。
So catechism simply means question and answers.。
The form is always question and answer.。
So in this sort of catechism,。
there were about 100 questions,。
and then you ask a question,。
and then the new believer,。
when they even get ready to get baptized, right?。
It's like a membership card.。
They have to answer those questions.。
So it's about 100 questions they have to answer correctly。
in order to get baptized and be a member of the church.。
Isn't that fun?。
There's also a larger catechism,。
which is more detailed with all the Bible references.。
Here, I give you a shorter catechism.。
It's a very valuable document to summarize。
the basics of the Christian faith, the biblical faith.。
And question number one, ask the question.。
Right off the bat, in the entire document,。
the first question is, what is the chief end of a person?。
The older translation is,。
what is the chief end, chief purpose of man?。
But today, we kind of distinguish that.。
So I translate as, what is the chief end of a person,。
a human person?。
And the answer is, a person's chief end,。
your number one purpose is to glorify God, to worship Him.。
And to enjoy Him forever.。
Those two little words are very, very carefully chosen.。
To glorify God in everything that we do,。
and worship is a big part of it.。
And to enjoy Him, that little word。
is a very carefully chosen word.。
Because our relationship with God。
is characterized by enjoyment, right?。
You enjoy your relationship with God.。
And you feel happy, you feel fulfilled,。
and you feel joyful,。
because you are related to God properly, right?。
So when you do quiet time,。
when you read the Bible, when you pray,。
do you enjoy it?。
Or you're like, oh my God, this is another thing I need to do.。
Okay, I need to brush my teeth.。
I need to read scripture, all right?。
Oh my goodness, okay, get it done, right?。
Or you don't even do it, right?。
So think about it, our relationship with God。
is supposed to be an enjoyment.。
And that's what Westminster Catholicism,。
this old document is telling us.。
We worship God, and we enjoy the relationship,。
because we are created to worship God Himself.。
We are being put in the sanctuary, Garden of Eden,。
the first temple, the prototype of temple.。
And we are like a priest,。
the highest honor a man or a woman can get, right?。
We are all priests before God, and we worship Him.。
And secondly, in this chapter,。
I wanna isolate some of the facts,。
or some of the truth that the passage is telling us,。
is that we are created to be a community,。
a family, to worship God.。
2.18, "Then the Lord God said,。
"It's not good for the man to be alone,。
"not good for the human person to be alone.。
"I will make a helper who is just right for him."。
Again, it's NLT, New Living Translation.。
It's an easier English translation.。
But He says, listen carefully,。
"I will make him a helper who is just right for him."。
And by the way, the word helper does not mean。
someone of lower status.。
Helper does not mean that.。
You know why?。
Because many Psalms, many prayers in the Bible,。
we refer God as helper, right?。
God is not your servant.。
God is not your maid servant.。
Many prayers in the Bible, particularly in the Psalms,。
asking God, "God, can you help me?。
"You are my helper, you are my fortress."。
Now, so the English translation here,。
helper, don't get the wrong connotation。
that, okay, all right, the woman is the lowest status.。
No, I think a better translation is ally, alliance, right?。
In order for Adam to take care of the creation,。
to worship God, he cannot do it alone.。
He need another one corresponding to him.。
He needs another one just like him, in front of him.。
What it means, essentially, a copy.。
So you need another person, you need a community.。
And the most basic unit for community。
is the family, husband and wife.。
So Genesis 2 is trying to answer the identity question.。
We are not to be alone.。
When we worship God, of course,。
we are first designed and created to be a priest,。
to offer sacrifices and to praise God together,。
but we cannot do it alone.。
It's not good for man to be alone.。
Have you realized we are different from your pets?。
Dog or cat, right?。
You realize that?。
When a dog looks into a mirror, they bark, right?。
They thought there's another dog in there, right?。
Do your dogs do that?。
Maybe your dogs are super dogs.。
But animals are different from humans, right?。
We have the sense of, how do you call it?。
Awareness of self-existence.。
I'm a being.。
I'm different from other people.。
Hey, I'm alone, right?。
Now, the first time I really realized that。
is that when we had Rachel, our daughter,。
and she was about probably one year old。
and started to walk, you know, trying to make troubles.。
And I realized that one morning,。
she went in front of the mirror in the living room,。
and she kind of looked into the mirror,。
and she touched her face, moved her fingers,。
touched the mirror, and she did not bark.。
She realized, hey, this is the reflection of me,。
and I am oneself, right?。
That sense of, you know, it gave me a sense of wonder.。
You know, God created us as someone。
who are aware of our own existence.。
And she realized that.。
A baby, a kid, realized that.。
Now, here's what it's trying to say.。
The man, the human person, was being alone.。
Exists by himself, right?。
And he aware of that, right?。
Now, in Genesis 1, if you realize,。
if you remember, this six day, seven day creation,。
there's a phrase that is repeated seven times.。
When God did something, when God set up something。
in the cosmos, he said, "It was good," right?。
"It was good."。
And seven times he said that.。
He appreciated his work, and this is operating,。
this is good, this is functional, right?。
And it was good, seven times.。
And the last time, the seventh time, it was very good.。
That's all in Genesis 1.。
In Genesis 2, here, this is the first time God says。
something is not right.。
Something is not good.。
And God sees a human person being alone and isolated。
and not connected to anyone, and that is not good.。
Right, that is not good.。
So if you're living your life, you know,。
you don't connect with anyone in a deeper way,。
God said, "This is not good,"。
because God designed human existence。
to be connected socially, relationally,。
with other people, right?。
I think, you know, we praise God for modern technology,。
right, the internet, right?。
Online learning, online streaming, and all the stuff.。
Those are really, really wonderful things, right?。
The phone that we have, right,。
used to send Apollo, the rocket, to the moon,。
many years ago, the phone that we have.。
It's so sophisticated.。
So we praise God for all these tools。
and all these technologies.。
However, if we are not careful, we lose a lot of things.。
We lose a lot of things.。
You remember years of pandemic,。
everything goes online, right?。
Right, is it a blessing or a curse?。
Well, both, right, both.。
Kind of like a blessing, right?。
You look at our YouTube channel, right?。
We got 16K subscribers, right?。
I mean, who, you know, it's just a blessing.。
We can share some resources。
with other people around the globe.。
But it's also a curse.。
It's also something, you know, not right.。
You know, when everything goes online,。
yes, in some way, it's a blessing.。
But, you know, if we're not careful,。
we lose a lot of things.。
And one of the things that we lose is human interaction,。
human interaction, like real-time interaction.。
You know, I still remember when first the,。
when COVID hit, when pandemic hits,。
all the seminars go online, you know?。
And I saw one of the ads, you know,。
one of the commercials, one of the advertisement。
that says a certain seminar is offering a fully online,。
100% online Master of Divinity degree, you know?。
You know what Master of Divinity is?。
You know, everyone's preparing himself to be,。
or herself to be a pastor, to be a minister.。
You have to at least complete the three and a half years。
or four years Master of Divinity curriculum, right?。
Now, why is it called Divinity?。
It doesn't mean who studied MDiv is more divine, you know?。
Again, it's an old word, right?。
Back in the 17th century,。
Westminster Confessional Faith,。
they called those who studied the Word of God,。
who studied the things about God, divine, right?。
Doesn't mean they're more sacred, right?。
But it's an old word, right?。
That's why the degree is called Master of Divinity, right?。
But you can do it totally online, right?。
Now, I totally oppose that.。
I oppose that.。
Now, you can study other degrees online,。
but MDiv is to prepare people to be pastors,。
and ministers are to relate to other people, right?。
We got a rough shoulder with other people, right?。
You understand what I'm saying?。
I mean, a pastor is not a YouTuber, right?。
We don't do things online mainly.。
We do things in real time, right?。
There's a Jewish psychotherapist.。
She's Jewish, Esther Perl.。
Esther Perl has done a lot of works on human relationship.。
And I watched one of her interviews,。
and she laments the modern age,。
the loss of real human interaction.。
We lost it, right?。
We're always with our phone, right?。
We don't talk to each other.。
We don't get our phone, right?。
Even we talk to each other, the one next to you,。
you text them, right?。
You go through some of the device, right?。
So we lost that real time human interaction,。
and she laments that.。
And she talks about the older generation,。
like me or people who are older than me.。
I still remember those days we were kids,。
and we have to interact with other kids.。
We're on the playground, we're on the street, right?。
The interaction is real time.。
It's spontaneous.。
It's instantaneous, right?。
You gotta respond to other people.。
You gotta learn how to rub shoulders。
with other people all the time.。
Real time, right?。
There's no device in my days, right?。
So we were on the playground.。
We beat up some kids, you know?。
Real time, you know?。
And the kids beat us up, right?。
And we got in a fight, right?。
We got into a fight.。
So that's how we learn.。
That's how we learn how to interact with one another.。
I'm sorry, my background is kind of rough, okay?。
I know you guys are very, very good, okay?。
You guys are very good, always at home,。
you know, always doing your homework,。
and you get 4.0 or whatever, you know?。
But you know what the problem is?。
It's that most of the social interaction。
are done online today.。
Now think about texting.。
Texting.。
You can always wait, right?。
You receive a text, and you kind of think through it,。
how to respond to it, right?。
On Zoom, you don't turn on your camera, right?。
Yeah, you're kind of absent, right?。
Are you there?。
Yes?。
No?。
Most of the time, you're not there, right?。
You disappear, right?。
And we lost that.。
You know, we just don't know.。
No, for people who are younger,。
especially much younger than you,。
we just don't know how to interact with other people,。
how to relate and rub shoulders with other people.。
The other day, I was having a hot pot。
with some of the friends,。
and then I saw a few tables, you know,。
the other side of the restaurant.。
They were doing solo hot pot.。
Now to me, this is inherently wrong.。
I mean, I understand you have, you know,。
it's a very good deal, right?。
But you know, you're facing one pot,。
and then tons of food,。
and then you consume the whole thing.。
And it's all by yourself.。
You don't talk to anyone, right?。
I mean, hot pot, essentially, is a community thing, right?。
Don't you agree?。
Right, don't you agree?。
I mean, we lost that.。
You know, my wife works with Urban Christian Academy.。
It's an after-school program,。
and she always complained to me in the past two weeks。
is that the young students today,。
they don't have any social skills.。
They don't even talk to you.。
They don't say good morning.。
They don't say goodbye.。
They don't say thank you.。
And they just lost all of this, right?。
And that is not good, according to God's design.。
God designed us to not to be an island.。
We are created to be connected with one another.。
There's an innate desire in all of us,。
in every single one of us,。
to be related to other people, to a friendship.。
Part of a family, part of something bigger than myself,。
the community, the church, right?。
We have to relearn that.。
You know, we have to relearn that.。
And worship, in the biblical sense, cannot be done alone.。
I don't know how great the experience is,。
all by yourself, watching a TV, watching a screen,。
and doing your worship or thinking about worship.。
That is not the ideal design.。
God wants worship to be done in a corporate way,。
you know, collective way.。
Sit with one another, seeing one another,。
and it's a corporate experience, to sing songs together.。
When you sing praises,。
do you realize that you can use your years?。
Right, you do have two years, right?。
And you listen to other people singing as well.。
Well, may not be singing so well,。
but the experience of worship is a corporate experience.。
We sing together.。
We don't come and listen to a song.。
We come and worship God together.。
That is the meaning of worship.。
You're designed to be a worshiper.。
God created you, put you in a temple,。
to be like a priest,。
to serve him and to worship him.。
And we are being designed to do that,。
connected as a community, as a spiritual family,。
as a church, to offer our worship to God.。
Let us all pray together.。
Father, we come before you.。
We repent of our sin of selfishness,。
our self-centeredness.。
Often we think of ourself。
and the culture will have us believe。
that we can just do life alone.。
And we don't need one another.。
We don't need other people.。
We don't need our counselors.。
We don't need our spiritual mentors.。
We don't need our friends.。
We don't need our brothers and sisters.。
We just,。
we use the whole life into individualistic experience.。
And we confess our fault and our sin before you.。
And I pray that your word will awaken us。
so that we will see that your original design,。
the beautiful design for us to exist。
is to be connected with one another in the community,。
to support one another, to pray for one another,。
to rub shoulders with one another.。
And thank you for your word reminding us。
our original purpose is to worship you.。
Thank you for this highest honor。
you granted to all of us,。
that we can worship you in your presence.。
And God, I pray that you will help us to recover。
not only the sense of wonder and awe,。
how great you are,。
but we'll recover the sense of togetherness,。
the sense of worshiping you, serving you together.。
And thank you for the opportunity we can have today。
to worship you together.。
So as a church, we ask that you will continue to renew us。
as one body, as one community,。
to worship you and to present you offering。
and sacrifices that will please you.。
Thank you for the time that we have.。
We ask that you will send us out。
to continue to live for you in our Monday to Saturday,。
challenge us and help us to follow you.。
And help us to connect with one another,。
to bear witness to our great God,。
our great and loving Savior, Jesus Christ.。
In Christ name we pray.。
Well, thank you very much for coming.。
And next week we're gonna serve you,。
our serve God together, all right?。
We have refreshment, right?。
Yeah, please stay around for a time of interaction, okay?。
