Thank you everyone.。
- All right, good to see you all.。
And why don't we say hi to each other?。
Okay, just a little, yeah.。
There we go, all right.。
Good to be together as a church family。
as we continue to reflect on the topic of being a church,。
being a healthier church,。
being a healthy church that will bring glory to God.。
Again, the adjective is important.。
It's a healthy church.。
It's not a good church.。
Now, I don't like that adjective, good.。
Is this church good church?。
You know, it's really subjective.。
But you know, at least another adjective, healthy church,。
will bring us a little bit closer to what the Bible says.。
Of course, the best adjective, I think,。
is biblical church, right?。
But biblical church, you know,。
it depends on how much do we know about the Bible,。
what the Bible says about church.。
So I hope this series will continue to, you know,。
help you ponder on the question。
of what the church is all about, okay?。
Now, an analogy, an analogy.。
If you go to a restaurant, you check the menu, right?。
And you're gonna order something from the menu.。
Do you think a restaurant is a good restaurant。
because the menu has tons of items?。
No?。
Have you ever been to a restaurant like that?。
- [Audience Member] Oh, yeah.。
(audience laughing)。
- There you go, yeah.。
You know, sometimes we go to a restaurant like that,。
and we probably have to spend 20 minutes or so。
in order to pick what you like, right?。
Too many menu items.。
Sometimes it's good, sometimes, you know,。
well, what I'm saying is,。
what that restaurant is a good restaurant.。
(audience laughing)。
All right, because we're going online, right?。
Yeah, I don't take any commission,。
but that restaurant is a good restaurant.。
But, you know, all I'm saying is,。
it's not necessarily so, right?。
You go to a restaurant,。
probably the restaurant has a few menu items,。
and they do really good.。
They do really good quality food, right?。
And that is also a great restaurant, right?。
Some weeks ago, I was in California, right?。
And people always tell me, if you go to California,。
you gotta go to In-N-Out, right?。
You have to go there, right?。
So it's kind of like a pilgrimage.。
You gotta go there and order or eat there,。
you know, order a hamburger, right?。
Yeah, those who are from California,。
you know, In-N-Out is a big thing, right?。
Anyways, I don't think In-N-Out is as good as Culver's here.。
You think so?。
No?。
How many of you think Culver's is better than In-N-Out?。
- Yeah.。
- Culver's, yeah, right, yeah.。
Well, anyways, now my example is,。
you go to In-N-Out, you know, how many items do they have?。
Only a few, right?。
Only a few.。
But they do it really, really well, right?。
It's a great restaurant.。
Same for church.。
No, a healthy church does not mean。
that you have all kinds of programs。
that you can think of, right?。
Oh, you can walk in the church。
and you can think of, you know,。
babysitting, preschool, Sunday school,。
kids' Sunday school, youth,。
college, young adult, couples,。
and senior adults,。
or all kinds of life stages are being covered.。
Does it mean, does it mean if a church。
has all the menu items,。
does it mean the church is a healthy church?。
Not necessarily so, right?。
It would be nice to have those things.。
But I want you to think about。
what a church really means, right?。
So there's nothing better to go to the Word of God.。
As I said, as I emphasized before,。
the authority of God's Word.。
You are Christian, how you live,。
and what you think about God,。
how you think about God,。
is not by your own preferences.。
How you think about ministry,。
how you think about serving God,。
using your gifts in different areas of the church,。
is not according to your preferences.。
You may have preferences,。
you may have your own opinions.。
However, the most important thing is。
you go back and return to the Word of God.。
That is the most important thing,。
because the Word of God is the ultimate standard。
and authority.。
Now, we have been studying the book of 1 Corinthians.。
If you have your Bible, turn to it.。
We were at chapter 12.。
And as you know, Apostle Paul, as a pastor,。
he wrote this letter to the church in Corinth。
and tried to address some of the problems they have.。
Now, you think about it,。
among all the New Testament churches,。
you can think of church in Philippi,。
church in Galatia,。
church in Ephesus,。
anywhere else.。
The church in Corinth probably is the Macca church。
of the first century.。
Macca church doesn't mean a lot of people.。
Probably it was a really, really small church, right?。
That's the same case for other churches。
in the New Testament era.。
However, they are the best in terms of manual items,。
in terms of people being gifted and talented in the church.。
In fact, the Apostle Paul said that is the case.。
Right off the bat in chapter one, verse five,。
he said, "Through him, God has enriched you guys。
"in every single way you can imagine,。
"your eloquent words and all of your knowledge."。
So you can pick one guy or some person。
from the church of Corinth,。
you can tell, wow, he's so gifted, right?。
This person or that person is so gifted。
or probably in a very high level。
in terms of the social status.。
So Paul actually praises the church in Corinth。
and saying, "You guys are so gifted and so talented。
"and so equipped with all kinds of words and knowledge。
"and talents and gifts."。
That's why in chapter 12,。
he come to address the issues arising from spiritual gifts.。
He has to teach them and remind them。
what spiritual gift is all about.。
As you know, the Corinthian church,。
they are gifted in some way。
that other churches probably don't have.。
The speaking of tongue, right?。
They can speak the language of the angels,。
the heavenly language.。
Nobody could understand unless there was someone else。
who is gifted how to interpret that kind of language。
into human language, right?。
So whether you believe it or not,。
that is being addressed in chapter 12.。
So Paul is trying to tell them,。
"You guys are so spiritually gifted,。
"but you need to understand the ultimate goal。
"of spiritual gifts or how you being talented。
"or your resources, your spiritual gifts that you have.。
"What is the ultimate purpose?"。
The ultimate purpose, remember, is common good.。
It is for common good.。
You are gifted in a certain way,。
you are gifted in some other way.。
You need to think of the image of body.。
We are just parts of the whole body,。
making up the whole community.。
So in chapter 12, toward the end,。
the apostle Paul said,。
"All of you together are the body of Christ,。
"and each of you is a part of it."。
Here are some of the parts that God has appointed,。
he has ordained for the church.。
First, first set of gifts is apostles.。
Second is our prophets.。
Third are teachers.。
And then those who do miracles.。
Would be nice to have a church。
where some people can do miracles, right?。
Yeah, right?。
If something doesn't work, you know,。
(fingers snapping)。
right, it works.。
That's nice, right?。
Well, the church in Corinth,。
they do have some people like that.。
Those who have the gift of healing,。
that would be nice, right?。
I'm not feeling good, you know, these days.。
What if we have a spiritual doctor, right?。
(fingers snapping)。
I'm okay.。
It would be nice, right?。
Those who can help others,。
and those who have the gift of leadership,。
those who speak in unknown languages,。
the speaking of tongue.。
Well, pay attention to how Paul。
organized or prioritize the spiritual gifts.。
He put apostle, prophets, and teachers。
the very beginning of the list.。
And then he pushes down the so-called spectacular gifts.。
Those gifts that can show off, right?。
Those gifts that can express, you know,。
how powerful the presence of God is, right?。
Like speaking of tongue.。
But he put that in the last, right?。
In the last set of the gifts.。
So there's a priority, why?。
Again, it's the ultimate question is,。
what is the gift for?。
What are spiritual gifts for?。
What are your resources for?。
It's for the common good.。
And he put apostles, those who establish churches,。
church planters these days,。
prophets who proclaim and speak the word of God。
in authority, teachers, teaching the church,。
teaching other people what to believe and how to behave.。
These three gifts are put in the priority list.。
And because they are used to build up other people,。
not for themselves.。
Now, there were many, many different gifts。
and God is using those gifts。
so that we can build up the church.。
Now, in my prayer, I mentioned。
there was a core team meeting today, right?。
We have a monthly core team meeting。
on the first Sunday afternoon.。
So all the core team members are deacons.。
We don't call them deacon,。
but we call them core leaders, right?。
Core team members.。
We're gonna meet together for a couple of hours。
for guiding the church and leading the ministries.。
If you sit down with the core team members,。
I thank God that we are being gifted in so many,。
why a variety of gifts, right?。
How many of you know that I'm not very good at finance?。
I'm really not that good, yeah, right?。
I'm really not that good, you know?。
I don't track the budget.。
I try to, right?。
Do you guys know how to use Excel?。
Excel, yeah?。
So only a few of you?。
Oh man.。
I use Excel, you know?。
I know how to use it, you know?。
The basic functions, you know,。
how to calculate the sum or summary and all the formulas.。
I know how to do it.。
But you know, I'm just not good at numbers.。
I'm just not good at finance, right?。
And my wife is so much better, you know,。
handling finance.。
So when we got married,。
she has always been the one who is,。
she's the watchdog, you know?。
She's telling me, "Hey, you overspend, you know?。
"You need to stop, okay?。
"Yeah, whatever you wanna buy,。
"but you know, you have to wait," right?。
She is the watchdog.。
She key in almost every single transaction。
in a Excel worksheet, right?。
Some people are really gifted in that way, you know?。
They may not be the ones who are going upstage。
and doing something in public,。
but they are good.。
They are really gifted.。
So in our quality members,。
there are a couple of people。
who are really gifted in that way.。
So they use the gifts for common good。
so that we can build a church together, right?。
You cannot imagine if our church,。
the finance and budget are managed by me.。
That would be a disaster, right?。
It would be a disaster, right?。
And the accountants, those who are trained。
in handling numbers and finance,。
there we go, right?。
And some people are really good at IT stuff, right?。
The computer and all this stuff.。
We rely on them in order to have a smooth surface, right?。
Smooth operation, right?。
Some people are really gifted in youth ministry,。
talking to young people, right?。
I'm not one of those, right?。
I cannot teach young people, right?。
Some people are really, really gifted in that way,。
and God is calling them to do those things.。
Some people obviously are gifted in music, right?。
They can pick up an instrument。
and lead us in praises and in inspiration.。
So God uses different gifts together。
in order to build up our church.。
So my homework for you is that,。
remember I told you something about spiritual gifts, right?。
In the first round of our series.。
Is to discover and to develop, right?。
Your spiritual gifts, right?。
So my homework for you is,。
after the service, you go to at least three people。
and tell them what I think you're gifted at, okay?。
What I think you're gifted at.。
So not for yourself, you go to the other person。
and say, "Hmm, I think you're gifted at this or that."。
Right?。
All right, no pressure, no pressure.。
It's just you think, right?。
Yeah.。
The person may not think that way, but you know.。
Well, it's one of the ways。
that we can encourage one another to discover.。
Always tell people, you know,。
spiritual gifts are like pepper in the teeth.。
Pepper in the teeth.。
You know, have you had some like black pepper,。
you know, seasoned food,。
and you had it and it looks really gross, right?。
The pepper is between your teeth.。
Nobody can see it.。
You need somebody else to tell you,。
"Hey, you got some pepper in your teeth," right?。
Spiritual gifts work like this.。
Nobody knows that you are gifted in this or that,。
unless other people tell you, right?。
That's what I'm saying.。
Pepper in the teeth.。
Somebody has to tell you.。
Somebody has to confirm it.。
The community has to confirm it.。
Before I went to seminary,。
I felt called to ministry, right?。
I felt called, at least, you know,。
I feel that I am gifted teaching, right, in teaching.。
So that is the direction I was going forward.。
And I did talk to my elders of the church, my home church,。
and they have to come together and say,。
"Hey, Mark, you are, I think you're gifted.。
"Yeah, but you still need training.。
"Yeah, you still suck.。
"But you still need training.。
"You still need to be equipped, right?。
"But I think you, maybe you got the potential, right?。
"The trajectory, I can see that.。
"So you have to work hard, too, right?。
"So, you know, in school, in seminary, I work hard.。
"I really work hard.。
"It doesn't mean I'm gifted.。
"Then everything is smooth, right?。
"I don't need to do homework or, you know,。
"and all that stuff.。
"I still need to work hard.。
"I still need to develop it."。
That is the nature of spiritual gifts, right?。
So all the Moody students here,。
let me remind you, you know, study hard.。
Okay, all right.。
So what is spiritual gifts for?。
And he continues, Paul continues to talk about it.。
He said, "It's not enough that you are gifted.。
"It's not enough that you think you are talented.。
"The most important thing is you should earnestly。
"desire the most helpful gifts.。
"The most helpful gifts are those gifts,。
"those talents that you can use for the common good。
"to build up the body of the church."。
So Paul is saying, "Now, let me tell you。
"a way of life that is best of all."。
And that way of life is the way of love.。
Take a look at this passage.。
He said three hypothetical situations.。
If I could speak all the languages of the earth,。
even the language of angels, but did not love others,。
I would be a noisy gong, noisy cymbal.。
Second situation, if I had the gift of prophecy。
and I understand all the secret,。
I possess all the spiritual knowledge, mystical knowledge.。
If I have such faith that I could move mountains,。
but did not love others, I would be nothing.。
Not even something, nothing without love.。
If I gave everything I have to the poor。
and even sacrificed my body, I could boast about it,。
but if I did not love others, I would have gained nothing.。
What Paul is saying is without love,。
no matter how gifted you are, it means nothing.。
Three times he said, "If I did not love,。
if I did not use my gifts and use my time。
and talents, my treasure for the common good,。
for the eternal cause, I would be nothing."。
Now, at this point, I wanna,。
I just wanna appreciate some of the people。
who have been with us in the last few years,。
especially the last few years.。
As you know, because of the pandemic,。
the last three, four years, we're really, really tough.。
We're really, really tough.。
You know, I still remember in year 2020, in March,。
we came back here because of the CDC guideline.。
Everything has to be locked down.。
Everything has to be shut down,。
and we have to switch to online completely.。
I still remember one weekday, weekday evening,。
we came with some brothers and sisters,。
and we tried to grab something,。
and then we hauled it back to my home.。
And my basement became the workstation, right?。
The studio.。
And we did the online service from there.。
It's been so tough.。
And a number of months ago, we opened, right?。
Now, what I wanna appreciate is all those sisters。
and brothers, the workers,。
who have been working tirelessly during this period.。
Why I appreciate them most is that it was tough.。
When you're doing something。
and you don't see the results immediately, right?。
When you're serving and you don't see people returning,。
it has been really, really tough.。
That's why I wanna appreciate each one of them.。
I can't name all the names,。
but I really appreciate those who are trying。
to get things going, right, with our limited resources,。
to get the worship going, to get the singing going,。
teaching online, preparing something backstage,。
figure out the IT problems, troubleshoot all the issues.。
Right?。
Just cannot imagine.。
This is crazy.。
This is crazy.。
So I would say they are tired.。
They are exhausted.。
If you talk about burnout, you know,。
I think they are the first one to get burned out.。
It's just not easy, right?。
Not easy.。
So I really appreciate all of them.。
They did not quit.。
And they are with us until this day.。
Really appreciate it.。
Now, when we open, we are still working tirelessly, right?。
Just give you an office example, it's my wife, right?。
You know, she's a tough nut, yeah.。
She's really, really tough.。
You know, of course, when we switched to online,。
she got, she had no kids ministry, right?。
Everything is done by video and all that stuff,。
and she didn't do it.。
But when we opened some months ago,。
she's the one and with some other sisters and brothers。
trying to, you know, we build and we open the kids ministry.。
What I really appreciate people like this。
is that no matter what, they are there.。
No kid, they still prepare, right?。
In fact, last night, we came home,。
and she was preparing for Sunday school.。
Of course, with her team, when I said team,。
there's only one or two people.。
But they are tirelessly working together。
in order to build a ministry.。
So, you know, we, sometimes we throw up the church.。
It's very natural for us to assume the role of consumers.。
We come here, we enjoy it.。
Do you enjoy today?。
Today's church?。
Eh, not really, right?。
Yeah.。
Do you enjoy the program here?。
You know, that kind of mentality is customer mentality.。
I mean, I can't blame you.。
I mean, it's very natural, right?。
You show up, yeah, there's something here, right?。
You don't show up, eh, they're okay, right?。
I wanna say with apostle Paul, we need to do it with love.。
We are being called together to constitute the church,。
to form the church body, the spiritual family of God.。
Everyone has his part.。
Everyone has her part to play, to give,。
to use our talents to build up the church.。
That is the way of love.。
And that's why 13.4 and following。
is the most famous love passage of all times.。
Take a look.。
Love is patient and kind.。
Love is not jealous, not boastful or proud or rude.。
It does not demand its own way.。
It is not irritable.。
It gives no record of being wrong.。
It does not rejoice in injustice,。
but rejoices whenever the truth wins out.。
Love never gives up, never loses faith.。
It's always hopeful, endures through every circumstance.。
That is love.。
Remember, this passage is often used in Christian wedding.。
This passage actually has nothing to do with marriage.。
Remember that?。
The context I told you from chapter 12, now to chapter 13,。
Paul is talking about church life, the way of love.。
Love is patient, love is kind, right?。
You come to the church, we live together。
as a church body, as a church family.。
The best way to do it is not administration.。
The best way to do it is not leadership.。
The best way to do it is not we have spectacular programs.。
The best way to come together as a church。
that is pleasing to God is the way of love.。
That means when you show up, when you come here,。
you think of others.。
That is what love is.。
It's not self-seeking.。
It's not about me, it's about you.。
Remember I said, you know, this is,。
at least in the context, it's not talking about marriage.。
But every single principle here。
actually is applicable to marriage, right?。
In all relationship, in all social gatherings,。
in all situations, love is the best way.。
Now a couple days ago, or actually a couple weeks ago,。
I think last week, a week ago, yeah,。
my daughter suggested that we as a family,。
we're gonna watch a movie, all right?。
So what kind of movie that she likes to watch?。
Um, it's this one.。
Cars.。
Cars.。
No, as you know, have you ever watched this one?。
Cars 1?。
You did?。
Nobody?。
Oh, come on, this is probably one of the best movies, okay?。
So you should get together and watch this movie.。
And it talks about Lightning McQueen, right?。
The race car.。
And he always want to win the race, right?。
To win the cup, right?。
The what?。
The piston cup, right?。
The piston cup, whatever.。
He just wanna be number one.。
He just wanna beat other people,。
and then he's gonna win, right?。
And unfortunately, he end up in a very small town。
called Radiator Spring, right?。
Radiator Spring on Route 66.。
And he got stuck there, but he quickly find out。
this town of not too many people,。
they are very simple people.。
You know, they love the town.。
They wanna build up the town.。
They feel sad if the town is being abandoned,。
being in ruin.。
So they love each other and care for one another.。
It's a small family.。
So they went to, so the story,。
a lot of the stories happened in that little town,。
Radiator Springs.。
And then, eventually, Lightning McQueen,。
this young race car, met someone。
who has been retired,。
used to be very successful race car.。
Dog, right?。
Dog.。
And there's one line in this movie,。
I think it's very, very meaningful.。
Because this old guy, you know, retired,。
and he look at the piston cups like nothing, right?。
It's just empty cup, right?。
In fact, he won a few of them, right?。
So for him, it really means nothing to him.。
And this old guy, retired,。
taught Lightning McQueen with this line.。
He said, "When was the last time。
"you care about something except yourself?"。
When was the last time?。
You care about something except yourself.。
That's a great line.。
That's a great line.。
When was the last time you care about something。
except yourself?。
Like how you enjoy ministry?。
Like how you enjoy church?。
Like how you enjoy the family?。
Like how you get something out of it, right?。
When was the last time you turn the table around and say,。
you know, that is not important。
because that is not the way of love.。
Love is not self-seeking.。
I'm not number one.。
Who cares?。
Whether I get something out of it, right?。
Whether I enjoy it.。
That is not the point.。
The point is whether I'm practicing the way of love.。
Paul continues.。
He said, "Prophecy, speaking in unknown languages,。
"speak special knowledge, will eventually become useless."。
It will be useless.。
Eventually it will be useless.。
In all the programs, fantastic stuff,。
you can make it happen in the church.。
Eventually it will become nothing。
because they will not last.。
They will not last forever.。
They are not eternal.。
However, the kids ministry, how exciting it is,。
how entertaining it is, how engaging it is,。
Paul is saying it will become nothing。
compared to what the gifts, the spectacular gifts。
the Corinthian Christians have,。
speaking in unknown languages.。
Wow, how great that is, right?。
You know, when I was in seminary,。
it was in Southern California,。
I was roommate with three other Korean guys.。
One of those guys, Korean guys,。
he said he's gifted in speaking in tongue.。
Have you ever heard speaking in tongue?。
Every morning, he was doing his devotional, right?。
And he prays.。
And nobody understands what he's saying.。
But he is so close to God.。
That's what, at least that's what he said, right?。
Now, I for sure, I for sure, he was not speaking Korean,。
even though I know nothing about Korean.。
But those are not human language, right?。
But he was using that language to get close to God, right?。
He was gifted in such a way.。
But Paul is saying, even so,。
it will become useless.。
But love will last forever.。
Love will last forever.。
Even the gift of prophecy,。
only reveal part of the reality, right?。
No matter how great the teaching is,。
only, we only see partially the whole picture.。
He said, when the time comes,。
that means when Jesus comes back,。
time of perfection comes,。
these partial things will become useless.。
Useless.。
Now, we need to mature.。
When I get mature, and Paul is saying,。
"When I was a child, I spoke like a child.。
"When I grew up, I put away childish things.。
"And now we see things imperfectly,。
"like puzzling reflections in the mirror."。
But then, when Jesus comes, when the kingdom comes,。
we will see everything with perfect clarity.。
Now what we see is incomplete,。
but we will know everything completely when the time comes.。
Therefore, only something will last forever.。
And Paul said, three things will last forever.。
Surprisingly, nothing about speaking in tongues,。
nothing about your spiritual gifts,。
nothing about your talents.。
Only three things will last forever.。
Faith, hope, and love.。
And the greatest of these is love.。
So my challenge to you today is that you come to church,。
or even you're not going to church,。
you're not in the weekdays, right?。
You're not seeing other sisters and brothers.。
How do you practice the way of love?。
Well, at least I would suggest to pray for the church.。
When you come together, when you care for one another,。
love is not self-seeking.。
It's to seek the benefit of the church, the common good.。
Seek the benefit of other people.。
So let's all pray and prepare our hearts and our mind。
and pray to God.。
I spend some moment to pray that, you know,。
come to God and say, "Dear God,。
"let it not be about myself,。
"but about the kingdom, the church.。
"Dear God, can you use me in such a way。
"to build up the body of Christ?"。
Let's all pray together.。
(pastor and congregation murmuring)。
Father, we come before you。
and we realize that we are your vessels.。
We are simply your instruments,。
that you use your sovereignty。
to grant us different gifts and talents。
and treasure and resources.。
And I pray that we will be a church。
that will practice the way of love.。
To care for one another, to put others before ourselves,。
to serve other people for the benefit of your church。
so that your name will be made famous.。
That people will come and observe us。
as a church family, as a spiritual family.。
They will be surprised by the way of love.。
They will see us as a community。
that is different from the culture.。
Yes, the world is teaching us and molding us。
in such a way that we always come as a customer。
to seek for our own enjoyment,。
to seek for our own benefit.。
But we come before you at the foot of the cross.。
We know that the best way, the eternal way。
that will last forever is the way of love.。
Help us to care for one another.。
Help us to pray for one another.。
To build up your church so that your family will be strong.。
Strong in love, close in love.。
And I pray that you will continue to grow our church。
and grow in such a way that we will continue。
to be mature in the way of love.。
In Christ name we pray, amen.。
Well, thank you for coming.。
And I pray that you will have a good time today。
and this week and God bless you in your work。
and your career and your family.。
And make sure you pray for one another,。
especially those who are out of town this week or next week。
and we'll continue to serve one another in our church.。
All right, God bless you.。
