our time to John.。
Let's welcome John.。
(audience applauding)。
- Everybody again at Urban Voice.。
And in fact, this is, you know,。
since I've been coming out monthly since August,。
this is the most of Urban Voice I have seen since August.。
So thank you for choosing to come on out today。
and join with your brothers and sisters in worship。
and in the hearing of God's word.。
With that, let's begin with just a quick word of prayer。
as we go into God's word, okay?。
Heavenly Father, thank you so much.。
We do thank you because not just 'cause it's Thanksgiving,。
but because this is an occasion to remind us。
to pause for a moment.。
Perhaps it's in the midst of a season of grumbling,。
of discontent.。
In a season where we're longing for more or better,。
help us now to stop and just recall。
all the great things you have done.。
And then to think about the great things。
you have done for us.。
And make those recollections cause us to draw near to you,。
to take a step forward, inch forward.。
And knowing as we're reminded today in the word。
that we are going to be looking into,。
that God, you have made a way through your son。
for us to draw near to you and to do it boldly.。
And we wanna do that today.。
And it's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
So brothers and sisters, you know,。
as already been mentioned a few times,。
this is a cause for great celebration today.。
A wonderful thing is happening today.。
I will call, you don't have to call it this,。
I will call it the new Urban Voice, okay?。
Don't change your signs, don't do anything like that,。
don't change your website, but the new Urban Voice,。
a new chapter for Urban Voice is starting today.。
You know, the Peniel Multiethnic Church。
is joining forces with Urban Voice Community Church.。
Two, what I believe genuinely,。
two great works that God has been doing.。
And you know, the world might call this a merge。
or a merger, but you know, let's face it,。
it's really more like two families that are coming together.。
It's like a marriage.。
It's two becoming one.。
And so praise the Lord for doing this great thing, amen?。
So I don't have a whole lot of time,。
'cause I know everybody is like, there's a luncheon today?。
So probably like, please, keep it short.。
And I will do my very best.。
In fact, I am gonna do more than my best.。
I'm actually gonna keep it short today.。
So there's a lot to say,。
but I'm gonna let the Holy Spirit speak to us。
through His word.。
So if you'll turn in your Bibles,。
or turn your Bibles on on your phone apps,。
to Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 25.。
Hebrews 10, 19 through 25, and I'll read that for you.。
And it says, "Therefore, brothers and sisters,。
"since we have confidence to enter the most holy place。
"by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way。
"open for us through the curtain that is His body,。
"and since we have a great priest over the house of God,。
"let us draw near to God with a sincere heart。
"and with the full assurance that faith brings.。
"Having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us。
"from a guilty conscience,。
"and having our bodies washed with pure water,。
"let us hold unswervingly to the hope we profess,。
"for He who promised is faithful."。
Then verse 24, "And let us consider。
"how we may spur one another on toward love and good deeds,。
"not giving up meeting together。
"as some are in the habit of doing,。
"but encouraging one another,。
"and all the more as you see the day approaching."。
So there are three let us statements,。
three invitations, three exhortations。
that the author of Hebrews gives us.。
First, we see in verse 22, "Let us draw near to God."。
Then in verse 23, "Let us hold unswervingly。
"to the hope we profess."。
And then third, "Let us consider。
"how we may spur one another on。
"towards love and good deeds."。
But before we get to these invitations,。
let's stop for a moment,。
looking starting at verse 19 at the foundational conviction.。
You know, we're pointed to this in verse 23, right?。
What is this hope we profess?。
What is the foundation of this invitation?。
And it is this, the gospel of Jesus Christ。
is the foundation of the church's。
intimate relationship with holy God,。
and with one another.。
The gospel of Jesus Christ is the shared foundation。
of the church's intimate relationship。
with God and with one another.。
The church, we're told in verse 19, just by the address,。
"Who is the author talking to?"。
And he says, "Brothers and sisters."。
If you don't know who your brothers and sisters are,。
just look to the left, look to the right,。
look behind you, go ahead, you can do that,。
it's all right, look around.。
These are your brothers and sisters。
who share this foundational conviction。
in the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
Is the writer of Hebrews writing to a bunch of strangers。
who don't know each other, or some,。
just kind of like group of people。
that happen to be together one day?。
No, of course not, he's specifically addressing。
a known and exclusive, and I'll say it,。
an exclusive group of people.。
We hear a lot of people say about like,。
"Our church is inclusive, we want everybody to come."。
But the reality is, is the church is exclusive.。
You know why?。
Because you are not really a member of the church,。
the body of Christ, unless you are in Christ.。
And you have to have the gospel to be in Christ.。
You have to believe who Jesus is,。
believe in him and what he has done on the cross,。
to lay down his life for sinners like us.。
And then to rise again in victory on the third day.。
To give us new life, eternal life,。
to guarantee the forgiveness of our sins,。
and a relationship with holy God.。
I mean, who do we think we are?。
We know how messed up we are.。
We know how weak and flawed we are.。
Who do we think we are that we think。
we should have a relationship?。
And yet you know what the gospel writer John says?。
That we have the right, the right.。
We have the audacity because of Jesus。
to claim to be children of God.。
Let that sink in for just a second.。
That ought to just blow your mind.。
Who do we dare to be to say we are children of God?。
That we would have the right to be called children of God?。
Formally we might call one another members of a church。
or the church.。
Says therefore brothers and sisters,。
we have confidence to enter the most holy place.。
Here's the foundation, the gospel.。
It's probably maybe explained in a way。
that you haven't thought of it.。
But it says we have confidence to enter。
the most holy place.。
It's a picture of the temple.。
In the temple is the smallest room.。
It's called the Holy of Holies or the most holy place.。
And it's a place where one person once a year,。
the high priest gets to go in.。
Once a year.。
And if he's not worthy, if he has done,。
if he has not prepared himself to go into the presence。
of God, then he is to be killed.。
Killed.。
He would die.。
But it says we have confidence, not just the one person,。
but we have confidence to enter the most holy place。
by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way。
open for us through the curtain that is his body.。
Whose body?。
Jesus Christ.。
And since we have a great priest over the house of God,。
so Jesus is the high priest with a capital T,。
the capital H, capital P.。
He is a superior high priest.。
He's not like one of those of old.。
He is even better.。
You could say he is the super priest.。
He says because Jesus is our high priest,。
he says let us draw near to God with a sincere heart。
and with the full assurance that faith brings.。
And that's where the gospel comes in again.。
We don't claim this because we're good enough.。
We don't claim the right, this boldness,。
this confidence to enter into God's presence。
because we did enough, we measured up.。
No, it's because the high priest, Jesus,。
did everything necessary so that by faith。
in what he has accomplished for us,。
by faith in who he is, we ride on his coattails。
and we have confidence because the high priest。
has done what's necessary.。
So we boldly, confidently enter into this holy of holies,。
this most sacred place where even when the high priest。
doesn't do it right, he's at risk of losing his life.。
We go in confidently.。
And why?。
Because we're told our hearts have been sprinkled。
to cleanse us from a guilty conscience。
and having our bodies washed with pure water.。
Because the church has this great high priest。
in Jesus Christ, let us draw near.。
Here's the first invitation.。
Let us draw near to God.。
How many in this room have been away at college。
and you're back for Thanksgiving break?。
There's about a half dozen people in the room.。
My daughter's back from college too.。
I know what college is like.。
I was at college.。
And if you have gotten real busy with studying,。
playing, sleeping, whatever it is,。
and it has drawn you away from God,。
let me call you back.。
Let me invite you.。
Draw near to God with a sincere heart。
and with the full assurance of faith,。
absolute trust in Jesus.。
On that day of atonement when the high priest。
goes into the temple, the people of God together。
experienced a national revival.。
They had confidence to say, now we can face another year。
and we can expect God to bless us.。
We can expect God to be present.。
We can expect God to show us favor and prosperity.。
We can expect, on the other hand, God will not kill us.。
For our sin, he's forgiven us.。
They could collectively breathe a sigh of relief。
like, oh, it's all good with God.。
And what does this passage tell us?。
If you read this whole section of Hebrews,。
it's just this whole explanation of,。
look at all that the Old Testament prophets。
and priests have done.。
All the animals that were sacrificed,。
and it had to be done every year over and over again。
because sin became a problem over and over again.。
But now we have this high priest who does it once and for all。
and his sacrifice is so superior,。
he never has to do it again.。
Once and for all, Christ has died for his church.。
Once and for all.。
That's as long as there's a high priest。
who has done it right.。
A high priest that was acceptable to God,。
who followed every law,。
obeyed every command to the utmost.。
But the church, as I said,。
has an even greater high priest,。
the Son of God, the Son of Man.。
The superior high priest, the super priest.。
For sinners, we cannot move forward.。
We cannot move forward in a relationship with God.。
We cannot go boldly into God's presence。
without great danger.。
We just cannot unless we have a great high priest.。
And for those who don't know, I'm here to tell you,。
there is a great high priest and his name is Jesus.。
If you have not trusted in him,。
don't you dare even think about approaching God.。
It's nothing but danger.。
But if you have Jesus as your high priest,。
your Savior, who didn't slaughter a lamb,。
he himself was slaughtered.。
He shed his own blood, his own body broken for us.。
Trust that high priest 'cause he has made us a way.。
He's made us guilt-free and he has purified us from sin。
so that the righteous judge might declare us righteous.。
Righteous.。
And that's what he does when we have put our faith。
in the righteous one, Jesus.。
He has made us new, or he has made a new and living way。
for sinners to have intimate relationship with holy God.。
This is the gospel of Jesus Christ,。
that he has secured God's forgiveness for us,。
that he has secured for us on the cross a birthright.。
As I said before, the birthright that we would dare。
to claim to be sons and daughters of God.。
Sons and daughters of God.。
This is the gospel of Jesus and this is that foundation。
that we share together.。
So let us draw near to God with a sincere heart。
and the full assurance of faith.。
When you have trusted Jesus,。
you don't have to walk carefully,。
you don't have to walk sheepishly shy, afraid.。
No, we can approach him as our God and father.。
Second, in verse 23, let us hold unswervingly。
to the hope we profess.。
That same gospel, for he who promised is faithful.。
The church is holding unwaveringly。
to the gospel of Jesus Christ,。
her hope and her conviction and her claim.。
The church is unshakable trust in the faithful one.。
We trust the Lord Jesus Christ, that he has done enough,。
that he has done it right.。
We trust his finished work on the cross.。
There's no one else that we trust, is there?。
There's nothing we can add to perfectly finished work,。
is there?。
Whose gospel is the power of salvation。
for those who believe?。
It's the gospel of Jesus.。
It's the gospel of Jesus, amen?。
Do we really believe that?。
Do we really believe that without this gospel,。
we are doomed, we are hopeless?。
So then we are able to spur each other on.。
We are called to push and to press,。
to encourage and to inspire, to provoke each other,。
to move forward because we share this fundamental commitment。
to Jesus Christ and his gospel.。
How many times in recent days have you heard somebody。
call people to unity?。
We have to stop being so divided.。
I just heard it recently.。
You know, when the Kyle Rittenhouse verdict was read,。
there was a call for peace and unity.。
Let's not fight about this.。
Let's be united.。
Let's hold together.。
And you know what?。
No matter who makes that call, whether it's the president,。
whether it's somebody influential in your life,。
a celebrity, no matter who makes that call, it's hopeless.。
We can't be united.。
There's too much that divides us.。
Being a Chicagoan doesn't unite us.。
Being an American doesn't unite us.。
Being Chinese doesn't unite us.。
A person, a citizen of the world doesn't unite us.。
It all divides us.。
But you know what unites us?。
Our hope, the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
It's the only thing that unites the church.。
So here's a little warning.。
I'm not a prophet, so later on don't say,。
"Man, that John Yee was a prophet.。
"He knew what was coming."。
I just know, and you know human nature.。
There is going to be things that will come up。
that will divide us.。
There are gonna be things that will happen。
that will cause us to say,。
"I don't wanna be with that person anymore.。
"I don't wanna have anything to do。
"with those people anymore."。
But the question we need to ask ourselves is,。
but do we agree?。
Are we united in the gospel?。
Are we all one in Christ?。
Are we?。
Only the gospel of Jesus Christ can unite people.。
Only Jesus is worthy of such commitment,。
loyalty, and devotion.。
Only Jesus.。
So when division appears again and it's imminent,。
let's hold together.。
Hold on to the hope we profess, the hope we claim.。
I know the gospel is preached here at least once a week.。
Hold to that hope we profess.。
Hold on to the promises of God in Jesus Christ。
to give us that new life, eternal life,。
to forgive us for our sins, to declare us righteous,。
and to say, "You are my children.。
"You are my son, you are my daughter."。
Let us hold together to the one faith,。
Jesus, our superior high priest.。
Let's hold on to him.。
Third, let us consider in verse 24。
how we may spur each other on towards love and good deeds,。
not giving up meeting together。
as some are in the habit of doing,。
but encouraging one another,。
and all the more as you see the day approaching.。
Mark, I'm about to say something。
that is probably gonna,。
that could potentially lead to saying,。
we wanna cancel your December visit.。
Folks, what excuses are we making?。
People at home, what excuses are you making。
that seem like a good enough excuse。
to forsake meeting together?。
There are people all around the world,。
COVID or not, who have imminent threats to their life,。
and they are still meeting together.。
I think it's time that a lot of people,。
the church needs to repent for all the excuses。
that they make for not meeting together.。
I'm gonna say it right here, enough is enough.。
Mark, people need to just give up their membership。
and say, you know what, I'm not coming back.。
Stop making excuses.。
Stop saying it's gonna be next month,。
or when the next wave of COVID is passed,。
or whatever it is, when my toe doesn't hurt anymore,。
or when I get a new pair of pants。
that I can wear to church.。
Let's stop making excuses.。
Gather together.。
Let's stop forsaking the meeting together.。
How are we gonna spur each other on。
when we are not together?。
How?。
How are we gonna encourage each other。
when we're not meeting together?。
The church faced all kinds of dangers.。
And you know, I always find it interesting。
when I speak to my friends who come from places。
where the church was severely persecuted,。
and you're one of them, people who come from China,。
people who come from Vietnam, Romania,。
and so many other countries around the world.。
You know when it's the most dangerous to be a Christian?。
When you're meeting together.。
It is.。
And yet they still do everything possible。
to meet together.。
Because they know that there is a day coming。
when the Lord will return,。
and he will set all things right.。
The earth will be his footstool.。
He will sit on his throne as the righteous judge,。
and all will be well.。
And those who are members of his body,。
those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life,。
have nothing to worry about.。
We encourage each other towards that day.。
I know it's hard right now, I know you're suffering right now。
but the day is coming when Jesus will make all things right.。
Let's hold firm to our hope together.。
Let's hang on to his promises together.。
Let's spur each other on to good works.。
Let's spur each other on towards love,。
not giving up meeting together.。
You know in Acts chapter two, verse 42,。
there's this description of the church.。
They devoted themselves to the apostles' teachings。
and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer.。
Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders。
and signs performed by the apostles.。
All the believers were together and had everything in common.。
They sold property and possessions。
to give to anyone who had need.。
Every day they continued to meet together。
in the temple courts.。
They broke bread in their homes。
and ate together with glad and sincere hearts,。
praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people。
and the Lord added to their number daily。
those who were being saved.。
Until the Lord returns,。
the church is encouraged by being united.。
They encourage each other when they are united。
by being together.。
Don't forsake gathering as some are in the habit of doing.。
Yes, worship together on Sundays。
and yes, study the word together on Mondays。
and then yes, break bread and pray together on Tuesdays。
and let's make sure that every day of the week。
we are sharing and caring, then breaking bread again.。
Let's make sure that we keep worshiping together,。
encouraging each other, spurring each other on。
towards love and good works.。
Do this until the day of the Lord.。
The gathering of believers,。
which is what the word church literally means,。
ecclesia means gathering,。
it should give us a taste of heaven.。
I'm not overstating that,。
it should give us a foretaste of heaven.。
Gloria and I, my wife and I,。
we experienced that when we were in seminary.。
Wow, how amazing it is to be in a place。
where everybody's kind of running in the same direction.。
And then we've experienced that in churches。
we've been members of.。
We've experienced that when we're surrounded。
by like college students,。
when we were going to college together。
and all the different things that college students go through。
and we're all running together because of Jesus.。
An urban voice, 2.0,。
can and does experience this foretaste of heaven too.。
Experience Jesus and all his benefits.。
And so many of those are right here in the body of Christ.。
Right here in the body of Christ.。
I'm gonna ask you to bow your heads with me and pray.。
I wanna give you a chance to just tell God。
how thankful you are for the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
And if you don't know Jesus,。
then you don't yet have that to be thankful for.。
But if you wanna experience the power of the gospel。
to change your life, to give meaning to your life,。
have you been wondering about your own identity?。
Who am I and why am I here?。
What's the meaning of all this?。
Jesus has that answer.。
He is the answer.。
And I'm inviting you to come,。
come, taste and see how good Jesus is.。
And you can pray something like this.。
God, I don't need that preacher to tell me I'm a sinner.。
I know there's so much wickedness in my heart.。
There is rebellion in my heart.。
There is hate in my heart.。
There's jealousy in my heart.。
There are all these things that I wish were not there,。
but it's true.。
There's so much sin in my heart.。
And I cannot carry it anymore.。
I cannot carry that guilt anymore.。
And I'm asking you, Jesus, I'm trusting you by faith。
that you will relieve me, you will save me from that guilt.。
And that's not all.。
That you will unite me with the creator of the world,。
the one who knit me together in my mother's womb,。
the one who has fearfully and wonderfully made me,。
that I can know my creator, the God of the universe.。
Lord Jesus, I want to know you.。
I want to be a child of God.。
Forgive me for my sin.。
Forgive me for my offenses.。
And declare me by faith, declare me righteous,。
pure, and holy.。
And God, would you show me the new life that you promise?。
The new life today and tomorrow,。
but also the new life that comes。
when the day of the Lord comes,。
when all things are made right,。
that on that day I will be counted。
among the children of God too.。
Thank you for Jesus, the perfect high priest。
who laid his own life down on the cross for me,。
paying the penalty for my sin,。
although he was without sin.。
And thank you that he proved。
that he even has power over death。
when he rose again on the third day.。
And I join the body of Christ, the church,。
the people who are around me, my brothers and sisters,。
in longing and waiting for that day,。
the day of the Lord, when you will return.。
And you will claim me as your own.。
God, as Urban Voice Community Church continues forward,。
I pray that you will bring them。
into a new season of fruitfulness,。
a season where many, many hear the good news。
and come to faith.。
People who speak English and Mandarin and Cantonese。
speak all manners of languages。
that are around us in Chicagoland,。
so many, too many to count,。
that they will hear the good news。
and they too will be saved.。
Lord, protect this church。
because there is an evil one who roars。
and he is like a lion looking for whom he might devour.。
But we know that we have Jesus.。
The Bible calls him the Lion of Judah, a greater lion.。
And we ask you, Lord, hold your church together.。
Unite us under Jesus.。
Lord, as we go to lunch today,。
I'm just gonna pray it right now.。
Let us have a great meal together and great fellowship.。
Thank you for the bounty that will be on the table.。
Thank you for the bounty that is around the table,。
the family of God.。
Lord, we praise you, we celebrate you.。
We thank you for the cross.。
We thank you that because of Jesus,。
we are a family, the Urban Voice family.。
And it's in Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
