Good morning, UV.。
I hope all of you are able to stay cool this past week.。
I'm thankful for just the church here.。
Mark brought a portable AC on Monday,。
so it came in clutch for me this week.。
But before we get into the word, let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you。
that we are able to come together this morning。
and be here worshiping you and fellowship.。
We find another, I just ask that,。
as we're about to open up your word and study your word,。
I ask that your Holy Spirit will be with us,。
that your spirit will open up our heart。
so that we're able to receive what you have for us today.。
And I ask that your word will be transforming in our life。
and that it will, yeah, just make a change。
in the way that we live our life.。
And I also ask for your spirit will be with me as I preach。
and that you would take away anything。
that is not from you and that your word,。
and your word alone will be preached today.。
Pray this in the son's name, amen.。
Okay, so I've been at UV for about two months now,。
and usually on Sunday morning,。
right before the English service,。
you can find me serving over at the kids ministry.。
And one of the things that I noticed,。
especially with some of the younger kids,。
every time when they're being told to do something,。
they usually like to do the opposite.。
Wendy's right here so he can testify to that.。
And one of the prime example of this is,。
we have one song that is called "Jesus is Alive."。
So usually at the beginning of the song,。
they will ask them to like hop around,。
clap their hands, stomp their feet.。
And then right in the middle of the song,。
there'll be a part where it would say, "Everybody freeze."。
And this started off with just one kid,。
and then more and more kids just like follow along.。
So basically, every time when the song starts,。
them to clap their hands or like stomp their feet,。
they would just like stand there and like not move at all.。
When it comes to the part where the song told them to freeze,。
they would start like running around。
and then like clap their hands。
and basically just do the opposite。
of what they were being told.。
And while some of them think that they're funny。
and like sneaky, not trying to let the teachers recognize it,。
but when you do things in an opposite。
with like basically the rest of the room,。
it is not hard to notice about it.。
And so in the same ways, in the Greco-Roman world,。
one of the reason that Jesus causes such a huge stir。
during his time on earth。
is because his teaching and his lifestyle。
is actually completely opposite。
compared to the culture around him,。
that the people cannot help but notice it.。
So today we'll take a look at the Jesus Sermon on the Mount。
and what this upside down kingdom of God looks like.。
So every country in the world,。
in some ways there is certain guiding principles。
when it comes to the governance。
and the ruling of the country, right?。
So I have to look it up for the US constitution.。
These are some of the guiding principles,。
popular sovereignty, limited government,。
separation of powers, checks and balances and federalism.。
And so similarly in the kingdom of heaven,。
there are certain guiding principles。
that outline what life in God's kingdom looks like.。
And the place where this can be found。
is on Jesus's Sermon on the Mount.。
So starting off today,。
I will kick off a series on Jesus's Sermon on the Mount.。
And throughout this series,。
we will explore what life in the kingdom of God。
or kingdom of heaven.。
I will use this term interchangeably.。
So I hope you guys don't get confused.。
So kingdom of God, kingdom of heaven,。
in the book of Matthew, they refer to the same thing.。
So the Sermon on the Mount。
contains some of the most elaborate teachings of Jesus。
on how we are to live rightly in his kingdom.。
And some of you might ask,。
so Chi, you have been talking about God's kingdom。
of this kingdom of heaven for a while now,。
but what exactly is God's kingdom。
or this kingdom of heaven?。
So we can actually spend an entire sermon series。
just on this topic.。
But one of the important aspects of God's kingdom。
that I want to highlight today。
is that this kingdom of God is already, but not yet.。
It is already, but not yet.。
So some of you might already be familiar with this term,。
but the already of this kingdom refers to。
when Jesus died and rose again 2000 plus years ago.。
In some ways, he ushers in a new kingdom,。
a kingdom of heaven here on earth.。
And so what that means is that in some ways,。
we're actually living in this kingdom of heaven right now.。
However, this kingdom is not yet fully being realized.。
This is why we still see a lot of brokenness around us.。
This is why we still see sufferings and pain,。
those of the, those brokenness around us.。
So this is actually the not yet part of God's kingdom.。
And this will only come in full realization。
when Christ come again in the future.。
And what does this already, but not yet aspects。
of God's kingdom meant for us?。
As we continue to explore this series,。
I think it will be helpful to keep in mind。
that this counter-cultural way of living。
laid out by Jesus in his sermon on the mount。
is something that all believers, we should aim towards,。
we should work towards on this side of heaven.。
At the same time, we also have to understand。
that God's perfection can only be attained。
when Jesus comes again.。
So the sermon on the mount, even though there are,。
it can seems like a rules or set of regulation。
for us to follow.。
But I want to emphasize this,。
that this is not supposed to be a burden。
or a set of impossible rules that no one can live up to.。
But this is supposed to be an invitation。
to a way of life that will lead to blessings。
and a way of life that will lead to flourishing as well.。
So before I would get into a passage today,。
I just want to give an overview。
for the entire sermon on the mount as a whole.。
So Jesus' sermon on the mount。
span across three chapters,。
from Matthew 5 all the way to Matthew 7.。
And this is just not some random collections。
about Jesus that Matthew kind of like compiled。
and put it together.。
But it is actually a very carefully designed。
and structured section.。
And it follows right from Jesus' preaching。
about the kingdom of heaven in chapter four,。
especially in verse 17.。
So at the beginning of Matthew four,。
we see that Jesus,。
he was being tempted in the wilderness.。
And after he basically able to resist。
all the temptation from the devil,。
he basically began his ministry right after that.。
And the central message that Jesus preached。
in his ministry is this.。
So Matthew four, verse 17,。
"From that time on, Jesus began to preach,。
"repent for the kingdom of heaven has come near,。
"for the kingdom of heaven has come near."。
And so right following after that,。
beginning in Matthew five,。
the sermon on the mount is basically。
where Jesus explains what he meant。
when he said the kingdom of heaven has come near.。
And so I put together this,。
a slide about the structure。
on the sermon on the mount as a whole.。
So at the beginning and the end,。
there's the introductory narrative framework。
that basically set up the physical settings。
of this entire sermon on the mount.。
And then we get to the main part of it,。
where there's an introduction,。
a main body and a conclusion.。
So we'll be focusing on the introduction today.。
And then there's the main body,。
which can further divide into three parts as well.。
The first part talking about the relationship。
between the law, the Old Testament law,。
to the new covenant of Jesus.。
And then the second part talks about religious hypocrisy,。
basically what true and false piety。
or being religious looks like.。
And then the third part talks about。
how are we to relate with one another,。
the kingdom ethics or kingdom perspective.。
And then this section's on sermon on the mount。
and with basically two different kind of ways,。
two different kind of fruits。
and two different kind of foundations.。
Jesus basically is giving his audience an options.。
You can either choose the way。
that will lead to fullness and blessings,。
or you can choose the way that leads to destruction.。
And so if you're more of a visual learner,。
this is a video from the Bible project。
that they put together and we'll take a look at it.。
Hopefully it will work.。
- Gospel of Matthew is one of the earliest accounts。
of Jesus of Nazareth.。
- And in chapters five through seven,。
we find a collection of Jesus's most well-known teachings。
often called the sermon on the mount.。
Here we learn what Jesus means when he announces。
that the kingdom of the skies has come near。
and what it looks like to participate in God's kingdom.。
The whole sermon has been given a three part shape.。
There's the introduction, then the large main body,。
and then the conclusion.。
The introduction announces the surprising。
counterintuitive identity of those。
who were part of God's kingdom.。
Then comes the main body of teaching。
where Jesus explores what he means。
when he calls his followers to be righteous.。
- What does he mean by righteousness?。
- Righteousness is about living in right relationship。
with God and with others.。
It's a character trait that creates justice。
and peace in the world.。
Then the body of the sermon is like Jesus's manifesto。
on righteousness examined from three angles。
and three big parts.。
How this righteousness relates to the Torah,。
how this righteousness relates to religious practices。
of his day, and how this righteousness is expressed。
in our relationships with God and with neighbor.。
Finally, Jesus concludes the sermon by calling people。
to make a choice about how they're going to respond.。
- Okay, I see it.。
Three main parts of this whole sermon。
and the middle part itself has three parts.。
- Right, and then every one of these parts。
itself has three parts.。
There is a lot of design in the structure。
of the sermon on the mount。
and we're gonna go over all of it.。
In the introduction, Jesus offers a surprise announcement。
to the people standing in front of him.。
They are invited to experience the good life。
of God's kingdom.。
He first offers nine sayings that redefine。
who is experiencing the good life,。
commonly called the Beatitudes.。
Here, we learn that those entering God's kingdom first。
are the lowly outsiders who hunger for righteousness。
and suffer as peacemakers.。
- Next, Jesus calls his followers salt of the land.。
What's this all about?。
- In the Hebrew scriptures, salt is a symbol。
of God's long-lasting covenant relationship with Israel.。
So Jesus is claiming that he and his followers。
are carrying Israel's covenant relationship。
to its fulfillment.。
- Next, Jesus calls them the light of the world。
and a city set up on a mountain.。
- Jesus is referencing here a promise from the prophet Isaiah。
that one day the inhabitants of Jerusalem。
would reflect God's light and peace and blessing。
out to all the world.。
- So Jesus is saying that he and his followers。
are fulfilling that promise.。
- Right, and how they go about doing that。
is what the rest of the Sermon on the Mount is all about.。
- Okay, so I hope that is a helpful way。
to kind of illustrate this whole entire Sermon on the Mount.。
So let's look at Matthew five together.。
And yeah, so Matthew five, verse one.。
Now, when Jesus saw the crowds,。
he went up on the mountainside and sat down.。
His disciples came to him and he began to teach them.。
So in this part, we basically find out the who。
and the where for this entire section。
on the Sermon on the Mount.。
So the who, of course, there is Jesus up there,。
but then there's two different kind of like distinct groups。
that Jesus differentiates, the crowds and the disciples.。
So the crowds are probably people。
that are on the outer circle of Jesus's life,。
and the disciples are in his inner circles.。
So Jesus began this by withdrawing from the crowds。
from the outer circle so that he can focus his time。
on his inner circle, the disciples.。
But the funny thing is at the concluding part。
of this entire Sermon on the Mount in chapter seven,。
we find that the crowd are present as well.。
They probably hear that Jesus is like teaching。
his disciples in the mountain,。
and they kind of like follow him along as well.。
So this is the who and the where.。
So Jesus, he went up on a mountainside。
and sat down.。
So this is pretty much where the Sermon on the Mount。
gets its name, because Jesus is basically preaching。
this entire sermon in the settings of a mountain.。
And for us in the 21st century America,。
this might not mean a lot to us,。
but for some of the early Jewish followers of Jesus,。
and even some of the early Christians。
who are familiar with the Old Testament,。
when they see this or when they hear this,。
they will probably immediately recall the event。
in Exodus at Mount Sinai,。
where the Lord basically gave the laws through Moses。
to the people of Israel.。
And so right here, Matthew is actually,。
in the way that he structure the Gospel of Matthew,。
he's very intentional in presenting Jesus。
as the faithful Israel,。
who is able to live out God's law perfectly.。
So I sort of like make a chart here。
that compare some of the parallel。
between the people of Israel in Exodus。
and also Jesus in the Book of Matthew.。
So in the Book of Exodus,。
we have the Exodus event, right?。
Where the people of Israel left Egypt.。
And in the Book of Matthew,。
he also presented these stories about Jesus's life.。
When Jesus was being born,。
like Herod is trying to basically kill all the babies.。
So to escape that, Jesus's parents have to。
basically bring him along。
and like live in Egypt for a little bit.。
And so once Herod,。
the Herod that is trying to kill all the babies was dead,。
Jesus and his family then moved out of Egypt。
and back to Jerusalem.。
And so this is kind of like the parallel event。
to the Exodus in the Book of Exodus.。
And right after the people of Israel left Egypt,。
they wander in the wilderness。
and they were being tempted for 40 years.。
And during this time,。
they make a lot of complaints to Moses.。
When they have no food, when they have no water,。
they basically came to Moses and asked him like,。
"Why do you even bring us out of Egypt,。
where we would like starve to death?。
We would rather be slave in Egypt。
than to like die here in the wilderness."。
And so Matthew, in some way, he also present Jesus.。
Jesus was being tempted after 40 days and 40 nights。
of like fasting and praying.。
He was being tempted at the end.。
And yet in contrast to the people of Israel,。
Jesus, he was able to resist the temptation every time.。
And so, and then after the wilderness wandering,。
we also find in Exodus,。
there is also the narrative about God gave the law,。
the Old Testament, the Torah at Mount Sinai。
to the people of Israel.。
And similarly in the Book of Matthew,。
here we find that Jesus preached。
about the kingdom of heaven on a mountain as well.。
So there's kind of like the parallel。
of giving the Old Testament Torah from a mountain。
and Jesus preaching about this kingdom of heaven。
from a mountain as well.。
So one thing to take note is that the Sermon on the Mount。
that Jesus gave, this is not a new set of Torah。
or new set of law that is supposed to replace。
the Old Testament law.。
But Jesus is actually bringing new light。
into this Old Testament law in light of his own coming.。
And his teaching is to become the ethical standards。
of righteousness for all the followers in this kingdom.。
So now we find out about the who and the where。
for this entire narrative and the following,。
we will find out about the what.。
So Jesus begins his sermon by telling the audience。
what a good and blessed life in his kingdom look like.。
So all these sayings begins with the word blessed.。
And blessed can just mean,。
simply just means having a good life。
or just having a happy life.。
But right here in the Sermon on the Mount,。
in the Beatitudes specifically,。
there's probably a nuance of someone。
that have God's favor upon them.。
So verse three, he say,。
blessed are the poor in spirit.。
If you have never heard of the Beatitudes before,。
or if you've never read this part of Matthew before,。
you might be like, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a second, Jesus.。
Who are the blessed one?。
The poor in spirit?。
I feel like this is a very surprising things。
if we listen to it in our,。
like in the current day and age that we live in, right?。
If we are to write our own Beatitudes,。
we will probably say, blessed are those who are wealthy,。
or blessed are those who have everything that they need.。
But for the first century Jewish audience of Jesus,。
living under the rule of the Roman Empire,。
this actually speaks directly to them,。
because this group of people,。
they're basically a group of outcasts。
and nobody in the society.。
And yet it is to these people,。
Jesus mentioned that they are the blessed one.。
And so what does it mean to be poor in spirits?。
Right here, it refers to a kind of humility。
that understands our own powerlessness.。
And in turn, this leads us to completely depend on the Lord.。
And it is to these people,。
Jesus has promised that for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
So I'm gonna get a little nerdy right here.。
If you look at the verb that I highlight。
on the second part of the Beatitudes,。
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
And then the following is, for they will be comforted,。
they will inherit the earth.。
So we see the Beatitudes begin with this divine promise。
that is in the present tense,。
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
And it also, later in verse 10,。
it ends with the same promise,。
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
And then everything in between。
is actually in the future tense.。
So even right here, the Greek grammar。
is trying to present this kingdom of God,。
this kingdom of heaven, as something that is already,。
that we can already experience in the here and now.。
But also not yet, that some part of it。
we can only experience when Christ comes again.。
So in other words, as believers,。
we are part of God's kingdom now,。
but the fullness of life in this kingdom。
can only be experienced in the future.。
And then Jesus continues,。
blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.。
This is probably also surprising, right?。
Why are the mourning,。
why are the people that are sad or mourning,。
they are the blessed one?。
But right here, when Jesus talks about mourning,。
there's probably two different kind of causes。
that leads to this kind of mourning.。
The first is probably familiar with,。
that the first one is probably something。
that we're all familiar with.。
We're mourning because of suffering or hardships,。
or just things or life that are difficult.。
Things that are difficult in our life。
that causes us to mourn.。
But then there's a second kind of mourning。
that Jesus talks about here.。
This is the kind of mourning。
because of an awareness of our own sin.。
And we see this a lot in the Old Testament actually,。
when we will read that people will put on sackcloth。
and like put ashes on their head。
as a tangible expression of their mourning。
and also repentance from sin.。
So right here, Jesus basically promised that。
when we turn to God in the attitude of mourning。
and repentance because of our own sin,。
God himself, he will forgive us and he will comfort us.。
And then verse five continues.。
Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth.。
And so similar to the first Beatitudes in verse three,。
the meek are those who have an awareness。
of their own circumstances.。
And instead of thinking of themselves more highly。
than they should be,。
they understand that ultimately their strength。
and their power comes from the Lord and the Lord alone.。
And besides the meek or the gentle,。
they are not just gentle towards themselves,。
but they're also gentle towards others as well.。
And when they see that there are some injustice。
or oppressions around them,。
they will want to bring the justice。
and the righteousness of God into those situation.。
And these are the people that God promised。
they will inherit the earth.。
And to inherit something basically means。
you assume some sort of authority。
or control over them, right?。
So to inherit the earth here means that the meek,。
one day when Christ comes again,。
these are the people that will rule in the new heaven。
and new earth alongside Christ.。
And this is the promise that God gave to those。
who are the meek or the gentle.。
And so this leads us to the next Beatitudes.。
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness,。
for they will be filled.。
And I'm sure we all have experienced。
some sort of hunger and thirst before, right?。
Maybe some of you sitting right here,。
you're already getting a little hungry。
and thinking about what will the lunch。
or the snacks be later.。
But how often do we actually hunger and thirst。
for godly thing?。
How often do we actually hunger and thirst for righteousness?。
Here Jesus say, blessed are those who hunger。
and thirst for righteousness.。
And to these people, Jesus promised。
that they will be satisfied, that they will be filled.。
So one of the first four Beatitudes that we just look at,。
it focused on, in some ways, a kind of attitude or mindset。
for those who completely depend on the Lord in their life.。
This next tree that we will look at,。
we'll actually focus on the actions of those。
who live for God as a result of the dependence on him.。
So verse seven, blessed are the merciful,。
for they will be shown mercy.。
And this is, again, pretty straightforward.。
When we show mercy to others' people,。
we will receive mercy from God as well.。
But the questions that, as I was preparing this,。
that I feel like God raised in my heart is this.。
Is our day-to-day life a good representation of the grace。
and the mercy that we have received from the Lord?。
I feel like, for me personally, this is,。
I don't think I can fully answer that question。
just because I feel like I have received a lot of grace。
and mercy from God, especially in this season.。
But if I honestly take a look at my life,。
a lot of times my life doesn't exemplifies that。
as someone that is merciful.。
And then verse eight, blessed are the pure in heart,。
for they will see God.。
And so the pure in heart are basically those who love God。
with all their heart, with all their mind,。
with all their strength, and with all their soul.。
And these people are basically the one that put Jesus。
as the center of their life,。
put Jesus as the priority in everything that they do.。
And Jesus say, these are the people that will see God。
in the new heaven and new earth.。
And then verse nine, blessed are the peacemaker,。
for they will be called children of God.。
And when it comes to peacemaker here,。
there's, again, two different kind of aspect。
to this peace that Jesus talks about.。
To make peace, there's the aspect of peace with God,。
which is kind of like the vertical relationship。
between us and God, and also peace between people.。
Basically means when we come together as people,。
are we able to maintain peace in our community,。
in our family, or in our country as a whole?。
Like, are we people that are actively pursuing peace。
in those situation?。
And these people, God promised that they will be called。
children of God.。
And in the Old Testament, to become part of God's family,。
or to become children of God,。
you actually have to physically come。
from the line of Abraham.。
But in the New Testament, through Jesus Christ,。
we are able to reconcile to God。
and become part of his new covenant family,。
through Christ at the cross.。
And as a result of experiencing this peace from God,。
the peacemaker then becomes agent of God's peace。
in the broken world around them.。
And Paul highlight this in 2 Corinthians,。
that in some ways, we as God's people,。
we are being reconciled to God,。
so that we can continue to become reconciler。
in our own life.。
So this is 2 Corinthians 5, 18 to 19.。
All this is from God, who reconcile us to himself,。
through Christ, and gave us the ministry of reconciliation.。
That God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ,。
not counting people's sin against them.。
And he has committed to us the message of reconciliation.。
So, if you have been following along,。
you can notice that there's a certain flow。
to these beatitudes, right?。
This part of the Sermon on the Mount.。
So we begin by focusing on the attitude,。
or the mindset of those people that depend on the Lord.。
And as we live in submission to the Lord,。
this should, in some ways, lead to a certain actions。
in our day-to-day life, right?。
Like bringing peace to the brokenness around us,。
or showing mercy to the people around us.。
And lastly, as we live for God,。
and become his agent of grace and peace in this broken world,。
Jesus also warned us that the world,。
we should expect a certain kind of reaction from the world.。
And in some ways, Jesus warned us that。
the world will actually be a hostile place for us.。
And we find this in Jesus' last film moments。
with his disciples during the Last Supper,。
when he basically say this to them.。
"If the world hates you, the disciples,。
"keep in mind that it hated me, Jesus first.。
"If you belong to the world, it would love you as its own.。
"As it is, you do not belong to the world,。
"but I have chosen you out of the world.。
"And that is why the world hates you."。
So, when we try to live this counter-cultural life。
that represents our kingdom's citizenships。
in God's upside-down kingdom,。
the world will not be a comfortable place for us.。
And this is the reality.。
But the good news is that Jesus promised,。
right here in verse 10,。
"Blessed are those who are persecuted。
"because of righteousness,。
"for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."。
So, if you remember,。
the Beatitudes opened with the same divine promise.。
"Blessed are the poor in spirit,。
"for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."。
And right here, it ends with, again, the same promise.。
"Blessed are those who are persecuted。
"because of righteousness,。
"for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."。
And so, this divine promise。
that the kingdom of heaven basically belongs to us。
is actually presently available。
to all people who follow Jesus.。
So, let's sit with that for a moment.。
What this means is that we can actually get a glimpse。
of life in the heaven, in the here and now,。
while we're still on earth.。
I think this is a privilege that we should not take lightly.。
And so, the next two verses then continues on。
to elaborate on this,。
but then it makes it even more personal.。
So, we can see the switch from the third-person pronoun,。
blessed are those, to a second-person pronoun,。
blessed are you.。
So, Jesus say, "Blessed are you when people insult you,。
"persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil。
"against you because of me.。
"Rejoice and be glad,。
"because great is your reward in heaven.。
"For in the same way,。
"they persecuted prophets who were before you."。
So, we just finished with the Beatitudes,。
with all the sayings that Jesus has taught.。
And Jesus has shown us what privilege and blessing it is。
to become a citizen of his upside-down kingdom.。
He then moved on to provide two metaphors,。
being the salt of the earth and the light of the world,。
to basically show us how citizens of his kingdom。
are supposed to be living on a mission for God.。
And just as any earthly citizenships that we have,。
our kingdom citizenships come with a certain privilege。
as well as responsibility.。
And this is a both-ends situation.。
We can't just enjoy the privilege。
of being part of God's family,。
of being part of God's kingdom,。
without actually carrying any responsibility with it.。
So, in other words, we are actually blessed by God。
so that we can continue to be a blessing。
to the world around us.。
So, Jesus continues,。
"You are the salt of the earth,。
"but if the salt loses its saltiness,。
"how can it be made salty again?。
"It is no longer good for anything。
"except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot.。
"You are the light of the world.。
"A town built on a hill cannot be hidden.。
"Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl.。
"Instead, they put it on its stand。
"and it gives light to everyone in the house.。
"In the same way, let your light shine before others。
"that they may see your good deeds。
"and glorify your Father in heaven."。
So, right here, Jesus basically telling his disciples,。
"As salt and light, God has sent us on a mission。
"to show the world who Jesus is,。
"through the way we live our lives.。
"And just like the salt that loses its saltiness,。
"if we have no positive impact in the world。
"or in the community around us,。
"we're basically of no use to God's kingdom.。
"And on the other hand, as the light of the world,。
"our lives should actively point people to Jesus。
"through the way we live our life。
"and through the works that we have done."。
And so, using these two metaphors,。
Jesus is trying to get this point across.。
"As a citizen of God's kingdom,。
"we must make a difference in the world.。
"And who we are and whose we are。
"should impact how we live our day-to-day life."。
So, we've come to the end to this whole introduction。
from Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, right?。
And the passage that we just looked through,。
this first 16 verse, in some ways,。
it is very straightforward, right?。
There's no sort of hidden meaning behind it。
or any part that is confusing or hard to understand.。
But I think the biggest challenge。
that comes with this passage。
is to be able to live it out, actually,。
in our day-to-day life.。
If we take a look at our own lives now,。
can we say that our lives fully exemplify。
these kingdom qualities or these kingdom characteristics?。
You know, one of the things that I like to do。
during my free time is to go on a run.。
And usually, on Saturday morning,。
I will go for a longer run.。
And so, these past two weeks,。
I've just been spending a lot of time。
just preparing this sermon,。
reading through Matthew, Chapter 5.。
And on one of my runs,。
so I was out there on Archer,。
and I came to the stoplight between Archer and Halstead.。
So, when the light turns green,。
when I was about ready to cross,。
'cause the pedestrian is green as well,。
so when I was about to cross the road,。
there's this one car basically just ignore。
the pedestrian light,。
and he just make a left turn right in front,。
right when I step on the road,。
he just turn right in front of me.。
And at that moment, I was pretty frustrated.。
I was like, "What are you doing?。
"You almost ran over me."。
And in my mind, I was thinking,。
"I am on the right here because I follow the rules.。
"The pedestrian light just turned green,。
"and you are a car you're supposed to give。
"the pedestrian the right of way, right?"。
So, at that moment, I was like,。
"Man, I am justified in my anger,。
"but this guy just doesn't follow the rule."。
So, as a reaction to it, I was like,。
I just do this as he drove past me,。
and then I stare at his car for a little bit.。
And right when I cross to the other side of the road,。
one of the Beatitudes just pop out in my mind.。
"Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth."。
And right at that moment, I was like,。
"Oh, man, Lord, I am about to preach this sermon。
"in less than two weeks, and yet what I just did。
"is something that doesn't represent。
"what God's people should look like."。
And for the rest of my run, I was basically like praying,。
like asking for forgiveness, and kind of like。
asking the Lord to change me, to change my life,。
so that I can live in a way。
that truly represent His kingdom.。
So, I'm sharing this not, yeah,。
just as a way of like being honest of like,。
these standards of righteousness that Jesus gave us。
is not easy, but this is actually an invitation。
to a way of life that will lead to flourishing。
and blessings, even though they might seem。
counter-cultural at times.。
We saw kind of like Jesus teach about,。
"Turn the other cheek when people hit you,"。
or like, "Walk the extra mile when people ask you。
"to walk like a mile with them."。
So, these are the ways that as God's people,。
as followers of Jesus, this is how we should live our life,。
because we are part of God's upside-down kingdom.。
So, what I want to leave you all with is this question,。
is some of these questions to reflect on for this week.。
So, do we live our day-to-day life in a way。
that actively brings glory to God?。
And to do it better, what are some of the things。
that we need to stop doing,。
and what are the things that we need to,。
oh, I put two stars there,。
but what are some of the things that we need to stop doing,。
and what are some of the things that we need to start doing,。
so that our lives can be more of a better representation。
of who we are as kingdom, as people,。
as citizens of God's kingdom?。
So, I hope you can take some time this week。
just to pray about it, and reflect on your own life,。
and see what God speaks to you.。
So, let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you that you show us。
the perfect examples of what it looked like。
to be a citizen in your kingdom through Jesus.。
We thank you that through Jesus,。
we are able to be part of your kingdom.。
And I just pray for us right here in this room。
that your Holy Spirit will be with us。
as we continue to live our day-to-day life.。
So, I ask that your Spirit will point out to us。
the areas in our life that doesn't represent who you are.。
I ask that your Holy Spirit will also be with us。
to give us the strength, to give us the ability。
to live in a way that truly exemplifies。
the God that we represent here on Earth.。
So, I just ask that you will remind us。
that we are part of your kingdom,。
and it is such a privilege and honor。
to be part of your kingdoms.。
And as your people, you have given us the mission。
to continue to bring your light。
to the darkness in the world around us.。
So, I just ask that your Holy Spirit。
will give us the power, give us the ability。
to live in a way that brings glory to you,。
that brings glory to your name.。
So, pray this in your Son's name, amen.。
Okay, so Mark is not here today,。
so I will be dismissing you all.。
But right before that, I just want to encourage you,。
we have some light refreshment outside.。
So, don't just leave right after the service.。
Stay back, talk to people, catch up with some people,。
fellowship, enjoy some good food.。
Okay, go in peace, you be your love.。
