All right, I want to say thank you to Kelly for doing that really off the cuff, being。
able to speak directly from the scriptures there.。
It's a long passage, it includes a number of different things, and you might think,。
I hope he's not going to talk about all of that as we're here today, and I'm not.。
I thought maybe as I come, often when I am here, some of the illustrations I use will。
be of my family, and most of you maybe have never seen my family because I'm traveling。
to different churches, but I have ten children, three of them are now married, and I have。
two grandchildren, so this is my wife and my family.。
So when you hear my illustrations about big family and craziness of that, now you'll get。
a sense of that, and that's out on our front porch here in the West Suburb.。
So anyway, that was free, that wasn't really part of the sermon, just a little bit of back。
story on me so you'll know me a little bit better.。
But I really want to come to you today and bring you greetings as my brothers and sisters。
in Christ who are here at Urban Voice.。
I'm so glad to rejoin you today on this journey you're on, and to really encourage you from。
the Bible as fellow followers of Jesus Christ in Chicagoland.。
I confess, though, that I am far less aware of you and what you're up to these days, as。
I have devoted much more of my time lately to the many new people that are being displaced。
here from places like Afghanistan, Ukraine, and now Venezuela and Colombia.。
Though from being with you when you started as a church, I know that you're approaching。
an age when inertia begins to set in, an inertia that causes churches to focus more inward。
than outward, to be more concerned about maintaining than growing the church.。
As a church grows older, it takes more and more people in the congregation to see one。
new follower of Jesus Christ.。
And just like you and me, if your church is not growing, you're declining.。
So this really begs two very crucial questions that I'd like to ask you today.。
What does growth look like for your church?。
And number two, how can I keep my church growing?。
To begin to answer these very important questions, from almost 40 years of missionary experience。
that I've had here in Chicagoland, this is what I would say to you.。
Hear me in this.。
There are a lot of good things that you can do as a church, but you must keep your focus。
on the greats.。
You must keep your focus on the greats.。
Let me repeat that to you.。
There are a lot of good things that you can do as a church, but you must keep your focus。
on the greats.。
So what are the greats?。
Well, I'm referring to the great commandment and the great commission.。
So let me just quote them for you so that both of them are in your mind here.。
The great commandment is what we just heard from Luke chapter 10, and it's to love the。
Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength.。
And the second is likened to it, to love your neighbor as yourself.。
The great commission is at the end of Jesus' time on earth as he is ascended to heaven,。
and these are the last words that he has to say, "Go and make disciples of all nations,。
baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.。
And lo, I'm with you always, even to the end."。
So I want you to notice with these two greats, the great commandment and the great commission,。
that there are two key words in them that begin with the letter N, the letter N, like。
M-N-O-P-N.。
And the Ns that are here, the two words that begin with N, are numbers and noses, which。
sometimes in church growth we kind of get into that.。
How many people did we have show up for service today?。
What does the number look like?。
But really what you see in these two greats is two other Ns, and that is the N of neighbor。
and the N of nations.。
So I want to start by talking a little bit about growing the church through neighbors。
and nations.。
Let me start with nations.。
Focusing on nations seems like a pretty straightforward approach for a church, and maybe even a roadmap。
to try to track progress as a church.。
It's almost like a continental approach of reaching others with each continent, like。
starting in Asia, America, Europe, and going to all of the continents.。
Well, maybe not Antarctica.。
I don't think we have really much mission work that needs to be done in Antarctica.。
It does mean going after people in each country, though, to know Jesus when we take a nations。
approach.。
But here's what's interesting.。
Nations rise and fall.。
Nations come and go.。
Sadly, we see that even with Ukraine recently as a country's trying to take it over and。
basically absorb it.。
So how do we fulfill our mission if we're looking at nations when that list of nations。
is changing constantly?。
The United States didn't even exist when the first church was born.。
My point is this, how do we measure progress when our lists are ever-changing?。
To bring greater clarity to this, I believe it helps us to understand the meaning of nations。
in the Scriptures.。
The phrase for nations is actually the phrase "ponta ta ethne," and it's a Greek word,。
which, or Greek phrase, which means "people groups."。
So if you take the Great Commission, it's to go and make disciples of all people groups,。
all ponta ta ethne, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy。
Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you.。
In Acts 2, we actually see one example of this as the church began.。
There's a list of people who heard the gospel at Pentecost, and it included this list that。
is given, Parthians, Medes, Elamites, Mesopotamians, Judeans, Cappodiceans, people of Pontus, people。
from provinces across Asia, Phrygians, Pamphylians, Egyptians, Libyans around Cyrene, visitors。
from Rome who were both Jews and converts to Judaism, Cretans, and Arabs.。
Now that's probably the list I should have given Kelly to read, but then she would not。
have liked me anymore today after reading that list.。
So why such a comprehensive and particular list of the nations is given here?。
Here's the early church, the Spirit has come, and this group of people respond.。
It's just a group of people.。
But in the Scripture here, it's a particular list of particular people from particular。
places.。
And that's because the church was birthed not just for the Jews in Jerusalem.。
As the Spirit fell on the church, people groups speaking different languages heard the gospel。
in their own language.。
They repented, and it says that there were over 3,000 people who were added to the church。
that day, at least 3,000 people.。
And then it says they all went back to their homelands to tell others what they had heard,。
and a multi-ethnic church spreads to other ethnicities and other people groups as the。
gospel goes to the ends of the earth.。
You know, yet people groups might seem to you, too, like a moving target.。
Just as we talked about nations coming and going, people groups might seem like a moving。
target to you.。
But I want to assure you from Matthew's gospel that it is a finite work, meaning it has a。
start and a stop to it.。
In Matthew chapter 24, verse 14, it says this, "And this gospel of the kingdom will。
be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all people, or all Pantetah。
ethnei, and then the end will come."。
So let me say this, one day our job will be done, and Christ will return to bring us to。
heaven to worship Him from all that have been reached by the church through the years.。
And it says that they will be from all peoples, tribes, and tongues.。
And this is given to us by a vision from John in the book of Revelation chapter 7, verse。
9.。
I know I'm going to a lot of places in Scripture, so my apologies here, but then if you look。
in Acts 1735, you see that Paul tells the people of Athens how important proximity and。
purpose is to our mission.。
He says, "From one man God created all nations, or Pantetah ethnei, of men and women, and。
determined the times and the places where they live."。
Why did He do that?。
It says, "So that they might know Him, though He's not very far from any one of us."。
So therefore, one key really to a growing church is keeping the nations in front of。
us, especially those nations who are in our own backyard.。
To help the nations know Him, and especially nations that are near us in global cities。
like Jerusalem then and Chicago now, a church must have a clear vision that keeps nations。
as a priority in our work.。
Think about it.。
We even have states like Texas that are busing nations here regularly to us, over 500 over。
the past three weeks.。
Could I ask you, is there a particular people group that God may be touching your heart。
to share and show the love of Christ to them?。
Could it be that together with brothers and sisters in Christ here that you do that?。
Nations will never know unless you go.。
Go and tell them about Jesus, and some of them are your people in your own backyard,。
even your own neighbors.。
So then I'd like us to go on to think a little bit about neighbors now.。
I mentioned nations, I want to talk just a bit about neighbors.。
The great commandment speaks to us of really having a sold-out kind of love, to love the。
Lord God with all of your heart, your soul, your mind, and your strength, and love your。
neighbors as yourself.。
Well, I think we have a pretty good idea of how to love ourselves, but we don't always。
know who our neighbor is or how we're supposed to love them.。
Jesus was asked this specific question, and his answer was quite telling in what we've。
seen here in Luke chapter 10 from our Bible reading today.。
It's a story not of greats, but is a surprisingly interesting story of a good person, a good。
Samaritan who's normally despised by others.。
Jesus tells the story to inform us who our neighbor is and how we might behave toward。
them, so pay attention here.。
The broader context, which is why I had Kelly read the whole chapter, is the context of。
deployment.。
Jesus is deploying his disciples at the beginning of chapter 10.。
He's sending out a second wave of 72 followers in pairs.。
Now that must be a growing church when you can send out 72 people and still be growing,。
right?。
But his purpose is so that they would go out to tell still others, so that they would believe,。
and he warns people who don't believe.。
Then something really amazing happens here.。
As they go, it says that even the demons obeyed them, and Jesus says that he saw Satan fall。
like lightning at the power of Jesus in them as they went.。
You get that?。
As they were going, as they were out doing the work, God's power was with them, and even。
Satan fell at the act of God's people on the move, people going.。
So Jesus prays for them, and he's rejoicing in their childlike faith and the obedience。
that they have to change their neighbors and even to defeat Satan in those actions.。
But it's not happening by people who are wise and clever by the world's standards.。
Jesus gives this parable then of the Good Samaritan as an example of what we're supposed。
to do.。
Finally, the chapter ends with this story that seems unrelated about these sisters,。
Mary and Martha.。
We have four characters in the story, especially the Good Samaritan story.。
One of them is his own, a fellow Jew who's left for dead on the side of the road, and。
then there's this preoccupied pastor and deacon, that's my modern day descriptions of that,。
who are preoccupied.。
They've got way too many things to do to step into this situation.。
And then there is someone who is outside of their own beliefs, not one of their own, who's。
different in belief, and he's also different in culture from them, and he's even despised。
by them, but he proves helpful to this person.。
And only one of these four characters is described as good, the good neighbor.。
The despised Samaritan is the only one who is described as a good neighbor in this story.。
And what does this good neighbor, this despised Samaritan do?。
Well, he really, I think, lays out four things that you see happening here if you just look。
at that passage.。
It says that he felt compassion for the person that was hurting.。
He saw a person on the side of the road nearly dead, and he felt compassion for him.。
It says then he stepped into the world of that person to help them.。
He met their urgent needs for help and for healing, and then he made plans for their。
longer term needs.。
Sounds kind of familiar, doesn't it?。
Think about it.。
What did Jesus do for us?。
He felt compassion for us hurting.。
He stepped in our world to help.。
He met urgent needs that we had, but he also made plans to address our longer term needs.。
Jesus describes himself as a good neighbor, and he gives us the example of a despised。
Samaritan also being a good neighbor.。
Now why is he a good neighbor?。
In the story it says because he showed mercy.。
He crossed culture and language and religion to even an enemy by stepping in to help instead。
of stepping away.。
So maybe to be a good neighbor we just need to do the same thing, right?。
Not so easy, is it?。
It wasn't easy for the lawyer either who heard this.。
He asked the question, he said, not because he wanted an answer, but he wanted to justify。
himself.。
He already had given the correct answer.。
He had quoted the great commandment to love the Lord God with all your heart, soul, and。
mind, and love your neighbor as yourself, and he said that he had done this all of his。
life.。
I've always loved the Lord God Almighty, and I've always loved my neighbor.。
So Jesus obviously knew that he needed an illustration to make clear and more measurable。
where he was missing the mark.。
So Jesus told the parable of the good Samaritan to explain how to be a good neighbor.。
Then Luke follows with this seemingly unrelated story of sisters, Mary and Martha, as we close。
this chapter on deployment, on Jesus' disciples being deployed.。
It says that Jesus is present with the sisters, and he's showing ways that they responded。
to his presence with them.。
One is Martha, who welcomed Jesus, but then is more anxious about all the things that。
need to be done, all the things that need to be maintained.。
The other is Mary, and Mary's concerned about sitting at the feet of Jesus and learning。
from him.。
Jesus says Mary discovered the one thing worth being concerned about most, being with Jesus。
and learning from him.。
So now how does all this tie together?。
Well, what does all of this mean for you and I today?。
Well you see, loving neighbors and nations starts by remembering our first love, Jesus,。
and then listening to what Jesus tells us to do, even helping people that are different。
from ourselves living in our own neighborhoods.。
Yes, we cannot lose sight of our first love, and it's because of our growing love for Jesus。
that we see the nations and the neighbors around us in a more compassionate way, worthy。
of his love too.。
We love because he first loved us, even when we were his enemies.。
So what is God saying to you today?。
Maybe your love has grown cold for Jesus.。
Why don't you confess that to him and ask him to rekindle your love for him?。
He can do that.。
And if you love Jesus, then you should love your neighbor more, even those who are not。
like you.。
I believe God brought your church here together and put you where you are to grow here and。
not decline, to thrive and not just survive.。
Where do you see neglect of your neighbors and your nations around you?。
Where you see neglect of neighbors or where you see nations that are not being reached,。
maybe there's something you should do about it.。
Personally, I want to ask you, what is your next step?。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you for the moments to be here.。
What is a very long passage but has some incredible meaning for all of us as followers of you。
that have been deployed beyond what happened in that town of Jerusalem to all of the ends。
of the earth.。
Thank you, God, that the church then saw their neighbors, those who spoke different languages。
and had different backgrounds, and pursued them.。
And today we are beneficiaries of what the church did then to reach those beyond themselves,。
their neighbors and the nations that were in their midst.。
Show us how to do that today, God.。
Give us a vision for what you would have us do that isn't just about how many people。
sit here in a seat, but about the neighbors that you put around us and the nations that。
need to know you.。
And we pray these things in Jesus' name.。
