(speaking in foreign language)。
- Good morning, Yuvi.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Testing, testing.。
All right, so a couple weeks ago,。
I attended a graduation ceremony。
for one of my students from Summit.。
And if we're being honest,。
most of the time when we attend a graduation。
or commencement ceremony,。
what we really care about is the presentation。
of the diploma or the degrees, right?。
Which unfortunately usually happens at the end.。
But during the ceremony,。
so in addition to the main speakers,。
they actually have five or six more students。
giving different kind of speeches.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so when it got to the third or the fourth speakers,。
I started noticing that some of the younger kids。
in the room, they began to lose their patience.。
And their parents, on the other hand,。
were struggling to try to keep them quiet.。
Some families, they even had to leave the room entirely.。
And so by the time all the speeches ended。
and the presentation of diplomas finally began,。
more than one hour had already passed.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so this experience sort of reminds me。
that in a world where we usually assume。
that more is always better,。
more money, more power, more efficiency,。
more likes on our Instagram account or a post,。
sometimes less is actually more.。
Like a few selected speeches at this graduation ceremony。
or a little bit of salt on a chocolate chip cookies.。
And so today we're going to see that less is more.。
It's actually not just a good advice.。
It is actually a principle that is deeply woven。
into how God chooses to work sometimes.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
, so we've seen that in the past.。
We have been journeying through the book of Judges so far。
and currently we are in the cycle of Gideon.。
Last time we saw that when God called Gideon to save Israel,。
he was very hesitant because he let his fears hold him back。
from surrendering to this calling.。
And after a few rounds of back and forth。
between Gideon and the Lord,。
Gideon is finally ready to do what God has called him to do。
here in Judges seven,。
as he moves into position to fight the Midianites。
and the coalitions.。
But before that, God has one more thing for Gideon.。
So let's look at Judges seven together today.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- So verse one, "Early in the morning, Jerubbaal,。
"that is Gideon, and all his men camped。
"at the spring of Harol.。
"The camp of Midian was north of them in the valley。
"near the hill of Moreh.。
"The Lord said to Gideon, 'You have too many men.。
"'I cannot deliver Midian into their hands,。
"'or Israel will boast against me.。
"'You have too many men.'。
"Jerubbaal said to Gideon, 'You have too many men.。
"'I cannot deliver Midian into their hands,。
"'or Israel will boast against me.。
"'Saying, 'My own strength has saved me.'"。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And so as Gideon and his army,。
they are getting ready for the battle,。
the Lord finds a problem, that they have too many men.。
Think about it, why is God so concerned with this,。
that he literally has to interrupt。
Israel's battle preparation?。
If we take a closer look,。
the number of men is actually not the root cause.。
The real problem here, as verse two tell us,。
is that Israel would boast against the Lord,。
and kind of like credit the victory。
as their own strength that brings them the victory.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So this is not a numerical problem,。
but it is actually a hard problem.。
And so God has to deal with it before the battle begins.。
And so to deal with these root issues,。
the Lord gave them a special plan.。
A less is more kind of plan.。
Less dependence on the numbers or their own strength,。
and more dependence on the Lord.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So in our passage today,。
we're going to look at this main idea together,。
that self-sufficiency, that is relying on our own strength,。
is the enemies of God's grace.。
Again, self-sufficiency is the enemy of God's grace.。
And as we go through our passage,。
we're going to explore why God has to deal。
with Israel's self-sufficiency。
before they enter into this battle.。
So first, self-sufficiency is the enemy of God's grace。
because it can lead to pride.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So ironically, while God is concerned。
about Israel's pride here,。
Gideon himself, on the other hand,。
he is still battling with his own fear,。
which is a consistent threat throughout his own life.。
So while a large army might seem exactly。
like what Gideon needs at this point。
to build up his confidence,。
God has a very different plan in mind.。
And so he told Gideon,。
"Now announce to the army,。
"anyone who trembles with fear。
"may turn back and leave Mount Gilead."。
So 22,000 men left, while 10,000 remain.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So in this first round of cuts,。
the deciding factor is those who trembles with fear.。
And Gideon's men are being reduced。
from 32,000 to just 10,000.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So while God is mainly concerned with Israel's pride,。
at the same time, he does not forget。
to slowly restore Gideon's faith.。
By telling Gideon to send the fearful。
and the trembling Israel home,。
Gideon, whose own past is characterized。
by all the fears and doubts,。
he is now being forced to differentiate himself。
from this group of fearful ones。
that were being sent home.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
However, God is not done yet.。
In verse four, the Lord said to Gideon,。
"There are still too many men.。
"Take them down to the water,。
"and I will thin them out for you there.。
"If I say, this one shall go with you, he shall go.。
"But if I say, this one shall not go with you,。
"he shall not go."。
So Gideon took the men down to the water.。
There, the Lord told him,。
"Separate those who lap the water with their tongues。
"as dog laps from those who kneel down to drink."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then verse six,。
300 of them drank from cup hands, lapping like dogs.。
All the rest got down on their knees to drink.。
And the Lord said to Gideon,。
"With the 300 men that lapped,。
"I will save you and give the million knights。
"into your hands.。
"Let all the others go home."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So in this second round of cuts,。
the Lord asked Gideon to separate those who lapped。
like a dog from those who kneel down to drink.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So there are a few possible explanation。
for why the lepers were chosen instead of those who kneel.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Some scholars think that the lepers,。
they actually show less fear。
because they're not afraid to just put their guard down。
and drink water like a dog,。
while the kneelers, they stay on guard the entire time.。
And this explanation has to do。
with who actually show less fears,。
kind of like in continuation。
with the first round of the cuts.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Some other scholars argue that。
it is because actually the lepers,。
they show less situational awareness,。
which makes them worse of a fighter.。
But this is exactly why God chooses them。
to show that he can still win the battle。
even with less able fighter.。
And so this second explanation has to do with。
who gets the credit for the victory at the end.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
For me, while both explanations seems plausible,。
the truth is that just we simply do not know.。
And the bigger focus here should be the fact。
that Gideon's army is further reduced down to 300 men.。
If you do some quick math,。
this is actually less than 1% of the men。
that he had in the beginning,。
from 32,000 to just 300.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So why did God have to make such a drastic cut。
to Gideon's army?。
Again, this goes back to verse two,。
so that the Israel would not think。
that their own strength had actually saved them.。
In other words, this is to prevent Israel。
from becoming prideful because of their own strength.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So God strips Gideon's army all the way down to 300 men.。
On one hand, it is to prevent Israel's self-sufficiency。
from turning into pride.。
But for Gideon, God is actually setting him up。
to experience something that he never could have。
with his 32,000 men.。
And so this bring us to the second part of the story,。
which is how Gideon's army was saved.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
This leads us to my next point,。
that self-sufficiency doesn't just lead to pride.。
It actually robs us from experiencing God's sufficiency.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So imagine Gideon now losing more than 99% of his warriors,。
and he still have a battle to fight the following day.。
Gideon probably feels a lot more anxious。
about the battle now compared to the beginning of the day。
when he was still 32,000 men strong, right?。
However, that same night,。
the Lord once again reassures Gideon。
that he is going to fight the battle.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
He's going to give the Midianites into his hand.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So let's look at verse nine.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
During that night, the Lord said to Gideon,。
get up, go down against the camp,。
because I am going to give it into your hands.。
If you're afraid to attack,。
go down to the camp with your servant, Pura,。
and listen to what they are saying.。
Afterward, you will be encouraged.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So he and Pura, his servant,。
went down to the outpost of the camp.。
And verse 12, the Midianites, the Amalekites,。
and all the other eastern people。
had settled in the valley thick as locusts.。
The camels could no more be counted。
than the sand on the seashore.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Midian, Amalekites, and the Midianites。
(speaking in foreign language)。
This time, before Gideon even have to ask for any signs,。
which is kind of like his signature move at this point,。
the Lord already knows his worries,。
and he reassures him in verse 10,。
if you are afraid to go, go to the enemy camp tonight,。
and you will eventually find a sign of victory.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So what God is doing here is that he is extending。
an invitation for Gideon to experience him,。
despite Gideon's own fear,。
as well as the fact that his men are just very little。
compared to the enemy.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So verse 13, Gideon arrived just as a man。
was telling a friend his dream.。
"I had a dream," he was saying.。
"A round loaf of barley bread came tumbling down。
"into the Midianite camp.。
"It struck the tent with such force。
"that the tent overturned and collapsed."。
His friend responded, "This can be nothing。
"other than the sword of Gideon, son of Joash,。
"the Israelite.。
"God has given the Midianites。
"and the whole camp into his hands."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So this time, the sign of victory that God gave Gideon,。
it actually comes from a dream from the enemy camp.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And logically, like a loaf of bread rolling into a camp,。
Gideon should pose no real threat to an army this size.。
And yet somehow, even before the battle begins,。
just the mere reputation of Gideon,。
has already struck fear into the entire enemy camp.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And this final sign is ultimately enough for Gideon。
to believe that God has indeed given him。
the sword of Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
To deliver the Midianite into his own hand.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So verse 15, "When Gideon heard the dream。
"and its interpretation, he bowed down and worshiped.。
"He returned to the camp of Israel and called out,。
"Get up, the Lord has given the Midianite camp。
"into your hands."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So we don't have time to finish the entire chapter here,。
so I will actually encourage you to read it on your own.。
But in the second half of this chapter,。
with just 300 men, Gideon defeats the Midianites。
as the Lord has promised.。
And the weapon of choice?。
Not iron chariots, not spears, and not swords,。
but just trumpets, some torches,。
and some jars that they crush.。
And it actually works, because the victory ultimately。
was never about Israel's own strength to begin with.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So this once again shows that the only reason Gideon。
is able to defeat the Midianites against all odds。
is because of the Lord.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the truth here is that God alone is sufficient。
to meet all of our needs.。
Even though Gideon lacks courage, God is enough for him.。
Even though the Israel's army is laughably small,。
God is sufficient to secure the victory.。
He strips away every layer of human confidence。
until all that is remained is total dependence on him.。
And church, this is actually an act of grace。
so that we can experience his sufficiency in our own lives.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So I don't know who in this room needs to hear this today,。
but here's the good news.。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God doesn't need us to be perfect for him to use us,。
but his power is made perfect in our weakness。
because his grace is sufficient for us.。
And God doesn't need us to be self-sufficient,。
but what he needs from us is to be able to open。
to receiving his grace.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So maybe some of you find yourself。
in a similar situation with Gideon today,。
that God is stripping away something in your life,。
a relationship, a healthy body, a career,。
a sense of control, or a confidence。
that you have been quietly holding on to.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
God is enough for Gideon.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Because this might be a gentle invitation from the Lord。
for you to experience him in ways。
that you are not able to in your self-sufficient state,。
when your career is successful,。
or your relationship is going well,。
or your retirement account is looking great.。
Because more than our comfort,。
God is more concerned with our Christlikeness.。
And more than our happiness,。
God is more concerned with our holiness.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so instead of asking the Lord,。
Lord, when will this end?。
Try asking him, Lord, what are you forming in me?。
Because God may be doing his deepest work in you。
right there, right then.。
He may be tearing down your self-sufficiency。
so that his own sufficiency can finally be seen.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
This is why the gospel can be so offensive。
to self-sufficient people.。
Because in our self-sufficient economy,。
we think that we have to be good enough,。
or strong enough, or capable enough。
in order to save ourself.。
But that is not the point of the gospel.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
The gospel, on the other hand,。
says that you don't have to be good enough,。
you don't have to be strong enough,。
or you don't have to be capable enough.。
Because at the cross, God provided the ultimate solution。
that we could never accomplish ourself.。
That is salvation by grace through faith.。
And it is only when we are able to understand。
that we alone are not sufficient。
that we are able to experience this gift of grace from God.。
Grace begins where self-sufficiency ends.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So let's pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Lord, thank you that your grace is sufficient for us,。
and your power is made perfect in our weakness.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
We thank you that our salvation。
is not earned by our own strength,。
but given freely through your grace.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So Lord, help us to live each day。
with humble dependence on you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
In your name we pray, amen.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
