All right.。
Good morning。
Brothers and sister if you have been with us for a while。
You know that we have been starting to Jesus Sermon on the Mount。
I think we began this series in October last year actually and。
The section that we are in now begins with Jesus。
proclaiming that he has fulfilled the righteous requirement of the law and。
Then using six specific examples or case studies Jesus continues on to redefine。
What true righteousness is in the eyes of the Lord compared to the religious and the cultural norms of his days?。
And so far for the past two months. We have looked at the first two examples on anger and loss and。
How Jesus he points to the root issues behind this action?。
that is a kind of attitude that doesn't treat other people made in the image of God with respect and dignity and。
In our third example today。
We will actually find a shift from the focus on our inner thoughts and desires。
To our ethical actions that impacts how we relate to others and we also find a shift from the decalogue。
Which is the ten words or the ten commandments?。
to the general general law and ethics section in the mosaic law and。
Similar to my last sermon we are actually about to engage in an area of sexual ethics which。
Tends to be an area of high scandal and offense。
It is sensitive because any discussion relate to sexual ethics。
Inevitably engaged in the part of our experience that is deeply personal。
From which we derive a great deal of our identity and also our meaning in life。
And no one likes a personal life to be met away, right?。
and on top of this。
Any kind of ethics by its nature place a certain limitation on our human freedom?。
and。
So for every yes that we say to Jesus and his kingdom ethics。
We are actually saying no to the ways of the world and the ways of our old self。
So today I will do my best to remain faithful to what the Word of God has to say。
when it comes to the topic of divorce and marriage and。
Regardless of where you're coming from and what seasons of life you're in whether you're married。
divorced。
Separated single or widow. I pray that the Lord will speak to each and every one of us。
Tangibly this morning. So let's pray with me together。
Father。
As we come to church and worship you this morning, I just ask that your Holy Spirit will be with us in this moment。
They will work in our hearts as your word is being proclaimed。
Convict us in the areas where we need conviction and。
Comfort us in the areas where we need to comfort。
May or may a word be proclaimed and your name glorified this morning. Amen。
So if you have your Bible with you。
Let's turn to Matthew chapter 5 and we're going to look at 2 verse today verse 31 and 32。
And if you don't have your Bible, I would encourage you to pull out your phone or I also put a couple of copies of Bible。
Behind there on the table. So if you want feel free to。
Just grab a copies and you can follow along。
So we'll be in Matthew chapter 5 verse 31 and 32 and I will be reading from the NIV version。
So verse 31。
It has been said anyone who divorced his wife must give her a certificate of divorce。
But I tell you that anyone who divorced his wife。
except for sexual immorality。
makes her the victim of adultery and。
Marries a divorced woman commits adultery。
This is the Word of God。
So this morning we are going to take a look first at the issue. That is that hand here。
That is the topic of divorce and then we'll take a look at what marriage is。
In another passage in Matthew where Jesus discuss about this topic at length, which is in Matthew 19。
but we are going to。
But we are going to。
Stay in Matthew 5 first. So verse 31。
It has been said anyone who divorced his wife must give her a certificate of divorce。
So what is this certificate of divorce?。
this is actually a piece of paper or a certificate that explains the reason for divorce and it primarily serves to。
function。
First it released the husband's legal claim on his wife。
and this is basically what Joseph intended to do when he found out that Mary was pregnant with Jesus and。
Secondly, it gives the spouse the freedom to remarry。
and。
In the Jewish law only the husband is allowed to give out this certificate of divorce。
however, the rabbis in Jesus day。
They have twisted this law and came up pretty much with a lot of ways where a wife in an unhappy or unfulfilling。
Marriage can sort of like force the hands of the husband to allow them to gain the freedom。
And not only that in Jesus day many of the religious leaders and the cultural in general。
They have pretty much taken this law as a blank check or a license for divorce。
and so this is especially clear in another passage that。
The topic of divorce is being discussed. That is Matthew。
chapter 19。
So in verse 3 it says some Pharisees came to him to test him。
They asked is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?。
For any and every reason is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any and every reason?。
So there seems to be a clear disconnection here right where this law has become a justification for all sort of divorce。
So to get a better idea of where the disconnects happen。
We need to go back to the initial context where this law was given by God to the people of Israel in Deuteronomy 24。
So this is the original context where this law was given。
If a man marries a woman who becomes displeasing to him。
Because he finds something indecent about her and I want you all to pay attention to the word indecent here because we will come back。
To it later. I promise you。
Because he finds something indecent about her and he writes her a certificate of divorce。
Give it to her and sends her from his house and it goes on for a couple more verses。
But basically here in the context of Deuteronomy 24。
this law prohibits a man from remarrying a woman he has previously married and。
Divorced to if she has subsequently been married to another person who has died or divorced her。
But the question that we need to ask here is whether it is a concession or a compromise being made。
Even though we know that marriage according to God's God's design is meant to be permanent。
This is why you always hear this phrase to death do us apart in a marriage vow, right?。
So here in Deuteronomy in an already sinful situation。
God actually permits divorce in light of the fact that the marriage covenant is not permanently. It's not uniformly permanent。
This law was given with the intention of limiting the harm and exploitative tendency。
Not to command divorce。
So because of the sin that led to divorce God actually gave instruction to make sure that the divorced person is being taken care of。
So what is being emphasized here is what may or may not be done in a situation where divorce has already happened。
The law right here is not addressing the moral status of divorce itself。
The emphasis is to regulate in order to minimize the damage not to command or sanction divorce。
So just want to be clear here a permission to divorce does not equal to a command to divorce。
They are two completely different things。
And when it comes to the New Testament。
Jesus does not want us to interpret this law as something that offers a command or prescription for us。
to to divorce。
but this is exactly how the Pharisees that came to Jesus understood it and。
We see this clearly in Matthew 19 again。
some a little bit。
Further along so in Matthew 19 verse 7 again, they asked Jesus。
Why then they asked did Moses command that a man give his wife a certificate of divorce and send her away?。
Jesus replied。
Moses permitted you to divorce your wife. So right here Jesus is correcting them. He's like。
Moses did not command you but he permits you to divorce your wife. Why?。
Because your hearts were hard. So permission is given in these circumstances because sin has already taken place。
But then Jesus continues, but it was not this way from the beginning. I。
Tell you that anyone who divorced his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another woman。
commits adultery。
So verse 9 right here is actually similar to our passage in Matthew chapter 5 on verse 32 just with a slight different circumstances。
So once again, we find this phrase from Jesus。
But I tell you and once again, he continues on to redefines what true righteousness means in the eyes of the Lord。
But I tell you that anyone who divorced his wife except for sexual immorality。
Makes her the victim of adultery and anyone who marries a divorced woman commits adultery。
So, you know Jewish world of academia during Jesus's time there are a lot of different school of thoughts and different thoughts leaders and。
There's actually a lot of ongoing debates that are going on between all these different Jewish。
schools on what actually constitutes a valid ground or valid reasons for divorce and。
A lot of this discussion actually stems from the ambiguity of the word。
Indecent in Deuteronomy the word that I asked you guys to pay attention to just now。
Jerome me 24 it says if a man marries a woman who becomes displeasing to him because he finds something indecent about her。
So on one end of the spectrum, there's the more conservative school the school of Shami。
They say only sexual immorality and immodesty。
Constitute a valid reason for divorce and on the other end of the spectrum. There is the school of Hillel。
They basically say any any reason is valid if。
Your wife is not a good housewife and she accidentally spoiled a meal that constitutes enough reason for you to divorce her。
And there are also other Jewish thought leaders like Rabbi Akiva。
Who basically say if you find someone that is more attractive and she's available that?。
Constitutes valid reasons for you to divorce。
And while all these debates are going on。
Jesus he transcends all of them by saying that divorce is not part of God's original plan。
Therefore remarriage with or without the certificate of divorce constitute adultery in the eyes of the Lord。
However, there are two clear。
exceptions that we can find from the Bible the first one is sexual immorality where we finds here in Matthew chapter 5 and 19 and。
the second one is。
spousal desertion or spousal abandonment and we find that in first Corinthians 7 15 and。
The second cases it basically described a situation in an unequally yoke marriage where one of the spouse is a believers。
and another one is not and。
If the non-believing spouse choose to leave the believing partner。
Paul this is Paul speaking. He say in that case that is valid。
But regardless we should view these two exception as permission not requirement。
And in our passage today。
Jesus did not actually say that in such a situation as husband is required to divorce his wife。
Quite the opposite。
What is implied by Jesus here? Is that even in the case of sexual immorality?。
you are not required to divorce your wife and。
It is possible for the marriage covenant to continue。
In fact because God's design for marriage is meant to be permanent。
Divorce should always be the last resort and this is quite a scandalous claim during Jesus's day。
And at this point some of you might ask what about other situations like。
domestic abuse or。
violence in a marriage relationship。
Of course God has given us the wisdom and his spirit to guide us in various situation。
So in some cases of violence and abuse。
It might be wise for the spouse to separate or even divorce in order to limit the harm and care for the person。
And I truly believe that there is always grace in this kind of situation。
However, this doesn't change the truth that the marriage covenant between a man and a woman is。
meant to be a lifelong covenant and。
This also doesn't change the truth that our God is the loving father who care deeply who cares deeply。
For his children and he desires for each and every one of us to experience a flourishing life。
So as the church as believers, we need to use our God-given wisdom to approach these issues。
With the intention of loving and caring for the person at the same time without compromising our faith。
So we have touched upon the topic on divorce and now we're going to take a look at God's design for marriage。
So we're gonna stay in Matthew 19 for this. So let's go back to Matthew 19 again in verse 3。
When the Pharisees asked Jesus if it is lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any and every reason。
I want you all to pay attention to how Jesus respond to them。
He didn't focus on what constitute legal grounds for divorce。
But instead what he focused on is God's design for marriage。
So Matthew 19 starting in verse 4。
Haven't you read he replied that at the beginning the Creator made them male and female。
this is in reference to Genesis 1 27 and。
say for this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife and。
The two will become one flesh and this is in reference to Genesis 2 24。
So they're no longer two but one flesh and therefore what God has joined together。
Let no one separate。
So what can we learn about marriage from Jesus's response here?。
If you're taking note, I would encourage you to write this down。
Marriage is a divine institution that is directed towards the goal of our lifelong discipleship to Jesus。
Again, marriage is a divine institution that is directed towards the goal of our lifelong discipleship to Jesus。
So we're gonna look for us marriage as a divine institution. I。
Don't know if any of you actually enjoy。
Legos and there's no shame in the meeting yet。
Even though you're an adult because I actually still enjoy building structures and play around with Lego。
When I was getting my MD fat tats, I live with a friend a friend's family up in the north suburbs。
And one of the unique thing about this family is that they are a family of builders and architects。
In fact, they have actually helped a couple of their friends and family。
built like the house from the ground up all the way from design to like actually building it and making it happen and。
The house that I live with them at that point the dad pretty much designed it and build it himself as well。
And somehow this builder DNA is being passed down to their grandchildren。
Claire and Russell as well because every time I hang out with them, they just love playing with their Legos。
For a certain period of time whenever they get their hands on their Lego, they actually like to play what they call Lego zoo。
And it is always fascinating seeing Claire and Russell used to creative freedom to build their Lego zoo。
One time the younger brother Russell。
He pretty much put a slide right in the middle of the zoo and not only that the slide actually leads right into the lion。
exhibits。
As an adult when I see the outside, okay, that is an issue right there. So I asked Russell。
Hey Russell, what is the slide for and he just answered me like genuinely?。
Well when the people get tired of walking they can just take the slides。
So even though me as an adult I see some issues with the Lego zoo。
But since this Lego zoo is the quote-unquote creation。
They pretty much have the freedom to build it whatever way that makes sense to them right as a three-year-old at that point。
But on the other hand。
There's another type of Lego that actually comes in a specific set。
With specific step-by-step instruction on how to build it and you can find all sort of different Lego sets at this point from Star Wars。
To Marvel to Harry Potter you name it。
And so a few Christmas ago。
I actually got an architectural Lego set of Singapore from this family and actually had a blast of building it。
I actually have a pictures on to show you so this is the Lego set that I received from this family and。
One thing that I noticed about this Lego set is how much details and thoughts they're being put behind the design of this Lego set。
each single piece of the Lego the colors the shapes。
the orientation。
Where you put them?。
They're all being intricately designed to be built into the skyline of Singapore. I。
Remember at some point I actually put a piece a right piece in the right place。
But I sort of like put it in the wrong orientation。
And I didn't notice it until later when I tried to put another piece on top of it。
And it just doesn't fit so I pretty much have to redo everything from that piece onward。
And so for me to successfully build this Lego set。
I pretty much have to follow like step-by-step instruction from the beginning to the end。
And so when it comes to marriage there are generally two different ways that we can approach it as well。
The first approach is kind of like see it as a social construct。
Which is pretty much like the free play Lego that Claire and Russell is playing with and they can pretty much do whatever。
They want with the Lego and the second approach is。
Seeing marriage as a divine institution。
So it's more like this kind of Lego set where a creator design is specifically to serve a specific purpose。
So if marriage is a social construct。
It means that there is no inherent nature and order to it。
But we as human we collectively decide and agree upon what marriage should be and what is the meaning of marriage?。
One good example of a social construct is cryptocurrency if you think of all the different coins。
Bitcoins or I don't know. What are some other coins these coins these virtual currencies?。
They don't really have any inherent value to it。
but the values come from we as human kind of like assign something to it and。
It also depends on a lot of different factors like the market or the supply and the demand。
But on the other hand if marriage is a divine institution it means that there's an integrity that exists。
Independently on how we as human instrumentalize it。
In other words, there's a certain norm and design to marriage in which we are accountable for。
Similar to when I talked about in my last sermon with kind of like the grain of the universe。
That there's a certain order to it that is being designed by God。
So what are the implication with marriage being one or the other if。
Marriage is a social construct that means that we as human。
We actually have the freedom to choose what form it takes and use it as a tool to pursue our own personal interests。
But if marriage is a divine institution。
It means that there's an inherent structure to marriage that is part of the scent that is part of the created order。
regardless of how we interpret or。
instrumentalize it of。
course, we as human we still have the free will to choose to go against the grain of the universe and。
Violate the created order, but ultimately it will not lead to a flourishing life。
And if we take a look at Jesus response, I think it would tell us a pretty clear answers right here。
Jesus he goes all the way back to Genesis to the creation account。
so notice in verse 4 haven't you read he replied that at the beginning the。
creator made them male and female and。
Say for this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife and the two will become one flesh。
so this means that marriage between a man and a woman is instituted by God the creator and。
When it is at the beginning that is since the creation of the world。
And we as human we are actually part of the creation as well。
So we don't really have an authority to simply decide what we want marriage to be。
So what is marriage first it is a divine institution。
That means there are certain orders and norms to it that we as human are accountable for。
But second marriage is directed towards a greater goal。
So if you ask the people around you what is the purpose of marriage you might get an answer like affection。
companionships or。
procreation。
The church historically has seen some of this as the purpose of marriage include procreation。
companionship remedy for loss and also social stability and。
Marriage and family in general they are being situated in this historical narrative where we as human。
Carry the responsibility to extend the kingdom of God to a certain extent。
We find this in Genesis 1 28 where God tell command human to be fruitful and multiply。
Few the earth and subdue it and rule over the rest of the creation. This is what call。
This is what we call the cultural mandate。
All these purpose are true and good。
But ultimately I would say marriage is a way that we can be formed into Christ likeness。
This bring us to my third point that marriage is a way that we can pursue a lifelong discipleship。
to become more like Jesus and。
I just want to be clear here。
What I'm not saying is that your discipleship to Jesus is deficient if you are single or you're not married。
Paul speaks about singleness in 1st Corinthians 7 as well and Jesus himself. He remains single his entire life。
So there's nothing wrong with not being married。
But right here marriage is a form of discipleship。
Because at the core of a godly marriage is a kind of sacrificial love that reflects the gospel and its model after Jesus。
This is what Jesus meant when he says that in the marriage covenant the two will become one flesh。
And there are no longer two but one flesh。
So there are no longer two single individual pursuing after their own interests。
But one single Union pursuing after a common goal。
I'm sure all the married couples in this room can attest to this。
Therefore a marriage to work out. It usually requires a lot of sacrifice and self-denials, right?。
Maybe one of you would like to sleep at 65 degree at night。
But your spouse like to sleep at 75 degree Fahrenheit at night. So for your marriage to work out。
I'm sure either one of you or both of you have to give in in some ways, right?。
And this is just one of the small examples. There are a lot more important decisions like。
How many kids do you want to have?。
Where where do you want to live? What neighborhood you want to live in? What school do you want to send your kids to?。
These are all big decisions that as the two person become one they have to decide upon as one single Union。
And this in some ways is what discipleship is all about that. We are called to deny ourself。
including our own self-interest to take up our cross and to follow after Jesus himself and。
Marriage is an arena where our discipleship to Jesus can be refined and being lived out。
And。
Moreover marriage is a lifelong journey because once again the marriage covenant between a husband and a wife。
Is a sacred covenant that is meant to be permanent。
And this is what Jesus meant when he say in verse 6 therefore what god has joined together。
Let no one separate。
So again, what is marriage?。
Marriage is a divine institution that is directed towards the goal of our lifelong discipleship to Jesus。
So if you have been following along this sermon series on Jesus sermon on the mouth so far。
over the course of my last few sermon。
You will probably started to notice a common threads in Jesus teaching。
Where he raises the standard of righteousness?。
And also intensifies the moral demand represented by this law。
And if this makes you feel like you can never really approach Jesus with such a high demand that he has。
There's a good news for us。
Unlike the pharisees and the teachers of the law。
The paradox of Jesus and some of the most scandalous realities about his ministry。
Despite his demand for righteousness is that the people whom Jesus chose to actively。
be with and spend time with。
Were usually those that are considered as sinners and outcasts by the society。
And these are the people that Jesus came and died for。
So I want to acknowledge that there might be some of us in this room。
Who have personally been through a divorce?。
Or you're currently going through a seemingly hopeless situation in your marriage。
Or maybe some of us。
Or maybe some of us you have been directly or indirectly impacted by a broken marriage in your family of origin。
Or maybe for some of us you're in a season of singleness where you're just struggling and feeling alone。
Whatever your experience is coming to church and hearing this message this morning。
I want to be abundantly clear that the intention behind these teachings from Jesus is not to condemn。
But it is actually out of his love。
For us to experience the good and blessed life。
This is why the entire sermon on the mount actually begins with blessing。
Blessed are the poor in spirit。
And regardless of your current struggles and past experience in your marriage or singleness。
You don't have to carry the weight of your guilt and shame anymore。
because Jesus。
Through his teachings in the sermon of mount。
It's actually inviting all of us into a new way of living。
That will lead to a truly blessed life。
So before I end my sermon, I know we just touched upon a subject that can be heavy for some of us here in the room。
So now I want to actually create some space for us to respond to the lord and do whatever we need to do with him。
And i'm going to do so actually by leading us through a spiritual practice。
together。
so。
This might be new to some of you。
But if you can just find a position or if you want to move to another seats where you feel more comfortable with。
Just find a spot that you're comfortable in and just relax。
And if you're comfortable。
You can close your eyes and take a few deep breaths。
Now I want you to imagine that you and jesus are in a room together。
And jesus is not all the way across the room from you。
But he is either standing or sitting right in front of you or just right beside of you。
Take a few more deep breath listen to this invitation from jesus。
Are you tired。
Worn out。
Burn out on religion。
Come to me get away with me and you will recover your life。
I will show you how to take a real rest。
Walk with me and work with me watch how I do it。
Learn to enforce freedoms of grace。
I won't lay anything heavy or ill-fitting on you。
Keep company with me and you will learn to live freely and lightly。
So。
If you want to just take a moment at your seat, I also put out the passage up on the screen。
this。
In your own pace at your own time. Just read through this passage again. This is matthew 11。
28 to 30, but it is the message version。
Read through this passage again slowly and reflect on the invitation from jesus。
To come to him。
To get away with him。
To walk alongside him。
And to be with him。
And i'm going to close this out in a moment with a prayer。
So。
Jesus。
We thank you for you are a god who is close and near to the brokenhearted。
We thank you。
For your yoke and your burden is not heavy。
But it is easy and light。
As we receive your word this morning。
Help us lord。
To be willing to also receive this invitation from you。
To。
To be with you。
To take up your yoke which is light and free。
And as we continue to live out our christian faith。
Help us to know that jesus。
You are right there with us in each and singing each and every step of the way。
That you are with us。
Comforting us strengthen us。
And healing us。
So as we go go on to the rest of the week, I just ask that lord you will refresh us。
Give us the rest that we need so that we can continue to live out。
Um the life that you have called us to live to live out the purpose that you have given us。
To be a light and the salt to the world。
To the darkness that is around us. So father be with us。
as。
As we walk out from church this morning。
Pray this in the son's name. Amen。
So, uh。
Thank you all if you need。
More time to process feel free to stay in the room if you want to find someone to pray。
Feel free to do so as well。
but for the rest of us, um, you are。
Dismissed you can go in peace and。
We have some dim sum out there。
For us to enjoy as well。
