Pastor Mark for our spiritual today. Hey guys, good morning. Uh, one wish it has to one another。
some of the neighbors, uh, right next to you. Um, good to be, uh, together as the people of God to。
worship together. And, um, yeah, today, uh, we're going to, uh, talk about this topic. Uh, we're。
going to continue this series on new, new heaven and new earth. Try to picture what heaven looks。
like. Try to picture what heaven is like. Right. And, um, there were a lot of different images。
found in the Bible, especially in the new Testament that talks about what our future home。
looks like. I will like the, uh, the weekly devotional is tied to our preaching series.。
Uh, it's on our future home. Uh, last time we were talking about John 14 and, uh, Jesus was saying,。
I'm going to, uh, prepare homes for you and a place for you in heaven, in my father's house.。
And we're going to continue this topic because the Bible has so much to say about our future home.。
In the old Testament, in the book of Isaiah, it talks about the future kingdom, new cosmos,。
new creation is going to be without pain and without tears, without crying, without all this。
suffering. And it will be a righteousness dwelling in the new heaven and new earth.。
That's the book of Isaiah. And then in the book of Revelation, the last book of the Bible also。
talks about the new heaven and new earth. And we'll get to that in the future. But today we're。
going to understand one of the images of new heaven and new earth that Jesus gave. Uh, it is。
about wedding, a wedding banquet. All right. Um, I'm sure you have been to a wedding banquet, right?。
Haven't you? To a wedding banquet, to a wedding feast, uh, go to a ceremony and all that. And。
Jesus has something to say about it. So there are three points I want to cover today. It's the。
importance of the banquet in Jewish wedding, especially. And the second point I have is the。
invitation to the, to the wedding banquet. And then the third one, how do we prepare to be part of。
the wedding banquet in heaven? The first thing is the background. We need to understand how。
important this for the Jewish people in Jesus' days, how they see, uh, the Jewish, uh, wedding,。
you know, uh, the entire, uh, Jewish wedding and marriage custom can be understood in three stages.。
The first stage is, uh, what we call the arrangement. Now in the, uh, in the old days,。
in, in the first century, uh, people would have their marriage arranged when they were about,。
for guys, uh, about 17, 18 years old. They're going to build a family together. And girls。
probably would get married about 14, 15 earliest. So it's pretty, pretty, uh, early compared to our。
modern, modern lifestyle. Uh, well, when you are 17, 18 year old, you know, you're building a family,。
you're an adult, right? Today is kind of different, right? You know, men who are probably 50 years。
old, they're still adolescent. Uh, they're still teenagers. Uh, today is different, but, uh, in。
the first century, uh, before you're 20 years old, you're, you're, you're going to get married and,。
uh, you're going to build a new family. And that is what the, uh, parents of both sides,。
they will come together and do some arrangement. And the arrangement is very, very serious because。
in the first century in the Jewish society, marriage is a transaction. It's an economic,。
financial transaction, especially for those who are, uh, from the rich families, uh, those who。
are from the priests or the sacred families. Uh, they will, uh, have a lot of terms to lay out,。
especially for both sides of the parents. They will come together and talk about money. Now, uh,。
today, how much do you spend average on a wedding? How much spend on a wedding?。
You remember? How much do you spend on your wedding? Today, probably, uh, I think the low,。
the low end is about maybe 50,000. No? 50,000. Yeah. Uh, something like that. Right? Well, the,。
the, the sky is a ceiling. Uh, it's a lot of money. So in the old days as well, when they talk。
about marriage, when they talk about wedding, they need to talk about finance and usually, uh,。
because it was in the patriarchal society, usually you think the man's side going to pay for it or。
the, uh, the, uh, the bride's side going to pay for it. Who's going to pay for it in Jesus day?。
Usually the man's side going to pay for all the major expenses. Right? Now, if, if, if I live in。
that kind of society, I better not have my son get married. Uh, my daughter is okay. Yeah. Um,。
so this is the arrangement side. And after they lay out all the terms and then, um, they were。
going to the second stage, be troval, which is kind of like today's engagement. But in those。
days it was a little bit more serious. You remember Joseph and Mary, Jesus, father, mother,。
Irving, father, mother. Yeah. They were in, in this stage, they were engaged and legally speaking,。
they were already husband and wife. So, uh, so it was kind of tricky when Mary report to Joseph,。
Hey, I got pregnant by the Holy spirit. Uh, it's going to big bomb for, for Joseph. Right? So he。
has to go to the court, uh, probably some local court to get some certification to a divorce.。
Right. But he didn't, right. He didn't. Anyways. Uh, so this, this is the second stage and it's。
kind of like today's, uh, engagement and from, uh, our, our first part of this series, I talk,。
I talk about the farewell discourse of Jesus. Remember the book of John chapter 14 to 17,。
there was long passage talking about, uh, recording Jesus' speeches to the disciples. He said,。
I'm going to leave you now, but I'm not going to abandon you because I'm going back to the。
father's house to prepare a home for you. And this is what the, uh, the, the groom will do。
in this stage after they were engaged. After they enter into the second stage of betrothal,。
the groom, the man will, will promise the bride, I'm returning to my father's house and by my。
father's house, I will build another house. I will prepare a place for you. And, but I will come back。
usually one year later to take you. I will come back for you. This is the background why Jesus。
was talking, uh, in such terms to his disciples. I'm going to prepare a place in the father's。
house for you. There were many places for you, but I'm not going to abandon you. I promise you,。
I will come back and we'll take you. And the, and the groom also beside, you know, preparing a place。
in the father's house is to make some deposit, usually in some valuables, maybe a wedding ring,。
maybe, maybe there were some properties, uh, some commodities that would, uh, give the bride。
some sort of promise, some sort of security. Um, so, uh, not only building the father's house,。
but also, you know, deposit, depositing some gifts as a security deposit, so-called. Um,。
you remember the farewell discourse. Actually, that's what Jesus did. He said, I'm going away,。
return to my father's house to prepare a place for you. And also there was some other sermons,。
some other things that Jesus said. If you check one of the key words。
occurring in the farewell discourse in those chapters, one of the key words always pop up。
is giving. I'm going to give you this, and I'm going to give you that. For example, he said,。
I'm going to give you the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit, the counselor will be with you.。
So you will not feel abandoned. God is with you. The Spirit of God will be with you.。
In chapter 14, Jesus said, I leave you my peace, peace that I grant and I give to you.。
In this world, you shall have tribulation, remember, but you will have peace.。
And that is the background of Jesus' farewell discourse. That is the second stage.。
And the third stage of the wedding custom is about one year later, the house is ready,。
and the groom will go to the bride's village and to take the bride. And of course, in this stage,。
wedding, wedding ceremony, and then of course, come to the conclusion in the banquet,。
the focus is on the couple, right? Focus is always on the couple. Actually today as well,。
you know, some weeks ago, I was officiating a wedding for a couple, a lovely couple. And。
we were about to start because everybody gets so, you know, so, so, so,。
they want to make sure their wedding, wedding service and wedding program goes well, right?。
So everyone is so tight. Everyone is talking about, okay, we have to do this,。
we don't get it wrong and make sure the order of service is correct, right? And I was,。
I was staying there and a couple of photographers, I'm sure they're not very experienced,。
new young people doing photography for the wedding. And they come to me and say,。
because I'm the officiant, right? And the girl said, "Hey Pastor, your shirt has some wrinkles.。
That is not right. Yeah, can you cover it or something like that?" Right? And you know,。
as an experienced pastor, you know, I officiate a lot of weddings. I, you know, I gently remind her,。
I said, "Nobody would pay attention to me because everyone's attention is on the couple, right?"。
So lo and behold, after the wedding, you know, I got all the photos, right? I got all the pictures,。
very beautiful pictures on the bride and the groom. None of the picture has me on it.。
Nobody actually pay attention to the pastor, you know, but that's okay. I officiate it.。
So everyone focus is on the couple. It was so in Jesus' day, but of course the,。
when the groom going to take the bride to his home, there was a big processional going on,。
right? All the people and all the bridesmaid and all the groomsmen, all the relatives and friends,。
they were in the processional. And when the bride and the groom about to enter, return to home,。
in their hometown, in their home village, they will have an other team of bridesmaid coming out。
to meet them, right? Remember the parable of 10 virgins? That's what happened. The 10 virgins,。
they prepare oil and they oil them and they were about to receive the new couple into their home。
and they will enter into the big banquet hall and there will be a big celebration.。
And in this stage, the last stage, probably, the banquet stage and the host family will prepare。
all the food and all the wine and all of the items that is needed to give honor to the new couple.。
That is the background of John 2. Remember the miracle of Jesus turning water into wine,。
right? That is not some magical thing that Jesus did. When they were running out of wine,。
in those days, as in today, in those days, it was a big social shame. And Jesus did that miracle,。
turning water into wine is to save them from social shame. He displayed His glory,。
at least in the sense that would give the host family the social honor that is needed.。
But remember that miracle is only the first miracle recorded in the gospel of John,。
right? First of the seven. And remember what John says? Something along that line of,。
you know, this is the first miracle, but it is a pointer to something more glorious coming.。
And the gospel of John is the second part. It's the most glorious of all miracles.。
It's Jesus dying on the cross, feeling no shame, but glory, glory and honor from God,。
because He loves us so much. He was willing to die. And that is the most glorious moment。
in the gospel of John. But you remember the, if you keep that in mind, the cultural background,。
the context, you understand what is going on, right? It's not an isolated story.。
For those who are invited to the banquet, they had already RSVP. They were already invited.。
They got the invitation. And as I said, the host family will prepare everything that is ready。
for all the guests to come. And of course, if we enter into the banquet, if we go to the banquet,。
what do we need to do? What do you need to do when you go to a wedding banquet?。
You need to bring some money, right? You better bring some money, right? Some gift money, right?。
Because this is a social honor, right? You don't go there empty-handed, empty stomach,。
and then you devour the food and then you leave. No, that's not how you, that's not how it goes,。
right? You need to bring some gifts, some monetary gift so that you can honor the host family, the。
couple. Without doing that, it will be a dishonor. It will be a shame. And of course, on top of that,。
if you are invited and you RSVP and you miss the meeting, you did not show up, this is a shame to。
the host family. It's pretty much what we experience today, right? But with a, you know, a bigger。
magnitude in those days, in Jesus' day. So the wedding banquet is very, very important. That is。
the conclusion of the entire custom. You got to do a big banquet at the end. Because this is so。
important in Jesus' day in their culture. That's why Jesus picked on some of the images to describe。
the future kingdom, the future heavenly home. When we go there, when we're looking forward to go。
there, Jesus said, it's kind of like, very much like a heavenly banquet. I'm sure you've been to。
a wedding banquet. Multiply it infinitely. That is the glory of the future heavenly banquet.。
And Jesus used this image or the New Testament Bible uses many of this wedding banquet images。
to describe our future home. And one of the passages today, we're going to read that quickly,。
is talking about the invitation to the wedding banquet. Matthew 22. Let me read that.。
Jesus also told them other parables. He said, "The kingdom of heaven can be illustrated。
by a story. A story of a king who prepared a great wedding feast for his son.。
When the banquet was ready, he sent out his servants to notify those who were invited,。
but they all refused to come. So he sent other servants to tell them, "The feast has been。
prepared. The bulls and the feline cattle has been killed. They are ready. Everything is ready. Come。
to the banquet." Now what is going on here? This story parable talking about the king preparing a。
banquet for his people. Those who are invited, they should have the royal honor to attend. And。
they have already RSVP, right? They reply to the email or click the link, you know, "I'm going to。
come." Right? "Come in." And all that. But it's very strange. These sort of people, they are not。
willing to come. They are not willing to attend. Now in those days, in the ancient days, there was。
no refrigerator. Once you cook something, you got to consume it. Right? You have to have it.。
You got to finish it. Because you can't put it back into the fridge and then bring it out again。
next day or two and then put it in the microwave. No, you can't do that in the ancient Palestinian。
society. So you have to consume it. That's why the king prepare everything for the banquet and。
quickly send out his servants to the nearby neighborhood and say, "Hey, come on. Guys,。
this is ready. And you need to come right now." Usually it happen in the evening, at night.。
Now pay attention to who are being invited here. Who have RSVP here?。
It says those who are already invited. To notify those who were invited, RSVP, right?。
It's very strange. They promised to come, but they never come. They're not willing to come.。
What are the excuses do they have?。
The story continues. It just said, but the guest, he had invited, he had RSVP,。
ignored them and went their own way. One to his farm, another to his business. Other people,。
other guests, seized the servants, the messengers, and insulted them and killed them.。
So the king sent out another team of servants and trying to urge them, "Come now. This is the。
moment. You accept the invitation. You need to show up." The excuses are two. One's going to the。
field, to farm. The other one's going to do his business or do some trading. And these two excuses。
are lame excuses. You know why? Because I told you some of the background. The banquet happens。
at what time of the day? In the evening. At night, right? You never go to, even today, you never go。
to a wedding banquet in the morning, right? Usually it's at night. At night, there's no opportunity。
that you have to go to your farm, right? There's no way you can do some trading, right? We work。
nine to five. It's after five, right? There's no way you can do all these things and excuse yourself。
from attending the royal banquet. The excuses reveals their idols, and the idols is in their。
heart. Essentially what they're saying is, "The banquet is not important. It's not worth it.。
I'm going back to my work. I'm going back to my farm." You understand when we are confronted。
with the heavenly invitation, when the invitation is sent to you by God, usually our excuses。
reveal our priority. What's most important? What is worthy in your mind? It is always revealed when。
we try to respond to the invitation of the kingdom. When the gospel is presented to you,。
you can think of a lot of different ways, excuses, or reasons to reject or refuse it.。
But you need to understand in the Bible, those excuses, those reasons, are usually indicators。
of what is truly your God. What is God to you? What is most important to you? Now I admit to。
all of you, myself included, we are all idols, manufacturers. Remember, I think 400 years ago,。
I think 400 years ago, 400 or 500 years ago, there was a reformed theologian called John Calvin.。
John Calvin describes human nature, human beings, as idol manufacturers.。
We manufacture our own idols. We create our own idols. And we put idols on our exotic place,。
and we worship it. And we spend all of our time consuming our energy. And that is your God. That。
is your idol. When I prepared this sermon, I was reminded of some of the books that I read from。
an atheist called John Paul Sartre. John Paul Sartre was a French existentialist.。
Now what does it mean? Existentialism, simply put, means I want to do whatever I want.。
My freedom is not, there's no boundary. There's no accountability in my freedom. That is the true。
freedom that I have. And John Paul Sartre was saying that. And many of his novels talk about。
the death of God. That God is dead. You know, we don't have to regard God as anything, anyone。
worthy in our life. You just erase it from your life. You know, reject him from your life. And。
John Paul Sartre said, "Belief in God makes my morality impossible." My morality of existentialism.。
I want to be free. I don't want to be kept accountable. If God exists, He will keep me。
accountable. That's why if I believe in God, it will make my morality impossible, Sartre said.。
To which a Dutch theologian replied, "Sartre's morality makes the non-existence of God a necessity."。
It is a necessity for an atheist, for an existentialist, that God does not exist.。
It's not because it has been proven that God does not exist. That is not the conclusion,。
not the last part of the equation. That the non-existence of God, that God does not exist,。
God is absent, is my presupposition, not my conclusion. It is my worldview. It's my own。
belief that will etch out God. That is a necessity. I have to etch out God so that I can have my own。
life. That is what atheism in his version. Now think about it, this is not just philosophy.。
That is essentially what Jesus said in the parable. Those people who have RSVP, they reject。
to attend the banquet. It's not because they cannot attend the banquet. Essentially they will not.。
It's not because we cannot come to the kingdom. Standing in front of the foot of the cross,。
at the foot of the cross, it's not because we cannot accept the invitation.。
The invitation of love and grace is not the ability. It is our will. Whether you will come。
or not. Now it's explained in the first part. In the ancient society, in Jewish society in Jesus'。
day, being invited and RSVP and you are willing, you are not willing to show up, that is an insult。
to the host family. Remember Jesus' parable? It's not just one guy, any dude trying to create or。
set up a banquet. It's not a certain dude on the street. It's the king. The king is preparing a。
banquet for his son. Because his son is getting married. You follow that line, you understand。
what the big deal about this banquet. It's the king's son's marriage, wedding banquet.。
Now the son is getting married, that means the son will inherit the kingdom. He will have the。
kingship. The son is getting married, he will be the king of the kingdom. Not showing up。
does not mean social shame alone. It means treason. It means rejecting the kingship.。
That is treason. 22.7. The parable goes on. The king was furious and he sent out his army。
to destroy the murderers and burn their town. And he said to his servants, the wedding feast is ready。
and the guests I have invited are not worthy of the honor. So go out to the street corners and。
invite everyone you see. So the servant did that and they find everyone they could find, good or。
bad alike and the banquet hall was filled with all the people. Now why Jesus told this parable at this。
point? If you understand context, as we read the Bible, we have to understand context, right? It's。
not to isolate the story. This is chapter 22. What happened in the previous chapter, chapter 21?。
Jesus riding on the donkey entered Jerusalem as a humble king, as the loving king. Matthew 21.。
He is the king. He is riding the donkey entering the holy city. He is the true king. So he went。
into Jerusalem and he cleansed the temple and there were so many debates and controversies between。
Jesus and the authorities of Jerusalem, the Jewish people. This parable is ironic because this。
parable is trying to condense the entire Old Testament story into 10 verses. What happened。
in the entire Old Testament story, Jesus said, is that the king has already, has been inviting。
his people to come to his feast to enjoy the time together, to enjoy his food. But his people have。
been refusing to come and kill all the servants and those of the Old Testament prophets,。
from the first one to the last one, John the Baptist, they killed them all because they are。
not willing to honor the son's kingship. And finally they killed the son and crucified him。
in Jerusalem. Now this is the last week of Jesus' early earthly life. This parable is trying to。
tell us the entire Old Testament story and it ends really bad because in AD 70,。
the Romans did come and they came to destroy the temple, Jerusalem. And the temple crumbles。
and the people scattered. Jesus is trying to tell us the entire Old Testament story, God and his。
people. And because they refused, because they reject the gospel invitation, now the door is。
open to other people. Who are they? The Gentiles, right? The Gentiles would come.。
All the nations will come because of Jesus, because of the grace.。
Then they come to the banquet. That is the invitation. If you reject it,。
not because you can or cannot accept it, because you will not accept it,。
the consequences are there. AD 70. That's what happened to the Jewish people.。
Now the parable could have ended at this point, verse 10. But Jesus continues. Now this is very。
interesting because you find similar parables from other books of gospels. But Jesus put on。
a twist here. He continued with verse 11 and he talks about how do we prepare to go into the。
banquet, to be part of this banquet. Verses 11 and following. But when the king came in to meet。
the guest, he noticed a man, there was a dude who was not wearing the proper clothing for the wedding.。
He asked, "Friend, how is it that you are here without the wedding clothes?" But the man had no。
reply. Then the king said to his servants, "Bind his hands and feet and throw him into the outer。
darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen."。
Now I've talked about the wedding banquet. Usually it lasts for almost seven days. Can you believe。
that? If you have a wedding banquet in the Jewish society on Jesus' day, you have to host a banquet。
seven days. This is crazy. I attended one of my friend's wedding. The groom is from the Vietnam。
family background. They did host for 10 days. It's quite a bit of food. A lot of guests coming in。
and out, in and out. But when you attend a banquet, what do you need to do in terms of preparation?。
At least you need to dress up a little bit, right? You can't just go with a fit flop, right?。
That would be a dishonor to the guests. It's the same way in Jesus' day. They need to dress up.。
Now there are different interpretations of why this dude without the proper clothing.。
Perhaps one of the most convincing arguments is that the point is not how he ended up this。
way. The point is what his clothing, the proper wedding clothing symbolize. What does it mean?。
Now you flip the pages of the New Testament. You'll find proper clothing to enter the kingdom。
is the robe of righteousness, the white robe that is provided by Jesus. He died on the cross. He。
sacrificed himself. He redeemed you. And so to speak, you have a new cloth on you. God is not。
looking at you. If you are in Christ, if you believe the gospel, God is no longer looking at。
you, you know, in your filthy way. You're not a sinner anymore. God look at you just as he looks。
at his own son, his perfect holy son, Jesus Christ. That is what we call justification by faith, right?。
Justify fully righteous standing in front of God. That is probably what the wedding。
cloth is all about. In any case, this parable add a twist at the end that you have believed in Christ.。
You supposed to be sitting in the banquet, but you are not with proper clothing.。
That means your relationship with God is a little bit shaky.。
Maybe you really don't know Christ. You have not really accepted him as your Lord and your Savior.。
Now there are phrases like outer darkness, you know, gnashing and weeping.。
Now, what does it mean? If you turn to other passages in the gospel of Matthew, you would。
not be surprised. Same phrases are being used as so often in the context of going into entering to。
future kingdom. And you find those places, you understand Jesus is saying,。
I don't really know you. Who are you? You go out to the outer darkness.。
Gnashing of teeth, right? Weeping. You are not going into my banquet because you do not know me.。
You have not really put in your faith in me. Now this parable ends with this twist.。
It's a great reminder for you and me that we come to the church and we even think that。
we are sons and daughters of the King. Are we really? Right? Are we really?。
In the gospel of Matthew, it talks about believing in Christ is much more than lip service。
in the Word of God. To listen and to walk, right? Of course, God is not looking for a perfect man or。
woman. We can never be perfect in this life. In this side of heaven, we cannot be fully sanctified,。
100% sanctified, right? We are clothed by Christ's righteousness. That's why we can enter。
into kingdom. But foundationally, in the bottom of your heart, you have this inclination,。
the willingness to say to God, yes, you are my Lord. I come before you constantly, regularly.。
I want to turn my life to you. I want to obey you. Yeah, help me. Help me. That is your most。
fundamental change when you come to Christ. And that is the robe of righteousness. That is what。
this parable is all about. You see in the banquet, you better be making sure that you are part of the。
honored guest, properly clothed. The future kingdom is like a banquet. If we refuse the invitation,。
it's essential, it's essentially, it's like you can try it. Stand at the foot of the cross。
and you look at the cross. Jesus sacrificed himself and shed his blood for you.。
That you are unworthy. You don't deserve it. But you stand in front of the foot of the cross.。
You're saying to the Jesus who died for you on the cross, you said you're not worth it.。
Come on. You know, I don't care. This is essentially what the refusal of the kingdom。
is like. How can we turn away such a great salvation, such a great, wonderful grace, right?。
The parable reminds us we better be sure right now, right? It has been said that。
there will be three wonders when you go to heaven. Three wonders when you step into heaven,。
you know, the new world, the new heaven and new earth. The first wonder is that。
you will see many in the kingdom whom you did not expect to see. You step into the kingdom, hey,。
why are they here? I didn't expect that. But they were here indeed because of the grace of God.。
That's the first wonder. The second wonder is that you do not find many whom you expect to see.。
I thought they should be here, but they're not here. Why? Because essentially they rejected the。
king. That's the second wonder. The third wonder is the greatest wonder of all. When I step into。
the kingdom, the greatest wonder should be I find myself there with my robe of righteousness,。
credited to me because of what Christ has done for me and knowing I don't deserve.。
And that is the greatest wonder. And friends, I want to end this note just as Jesus ended.。
The invitation is out there. You are our SVP. You are our SVP by your faith in Christ.。
Make Jesus Christ your Lord today. Make him your leader, the leader of your life.。
Bow before him and say, "My heart is right here. Please be my Lord. Guide me and help me listen to。
you. Help me obey you." We're going to end today with a chameleon. We'll do it once a month.。
And we'll put it right at the end today. And there's a long tradition in the church that。
chameleon is a foretaste of the future heavenly banquet. And let us pray and prepare our hearts.。
This is a foretaste. It's like an appetizer. The future kingdom, the banquet, the perfect,。
glorious banquet is ready for us. Take it. Let's all pray. Lord Jesus, we ask that you will make us。
one as your church until the final victory of the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
We want to give you thanks because we are invited. We can be at your table. We can feast at your。
banquet table. All honor and glory to you. And once again, we pray that。
that Jesus Christ, our Lord, will be the Lord of all. He is the one。
who has the lordship over everything in our lives.。
We're going to school, but our school life is under your lordship. Please help us to do so,。
to glorify you. Our family, our marriage, our church, our ministry, everything, our career.。
You are the Lord. You are the Lord of all. And I pray that today we'll accept this invitation。
to taste, to foretaste of your glorious, heavenly banquet. Thank you for the invitation.。
And we're going to accept it with our will. In faith, we put our trust in our dependence。
on our Lord Jesus Christ. All glory to you in Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
We have a communion table back there. If you're ready to take this foretaste, the appetizer。
of the future banquet, you can go ahead and go to the table and get the packet.。
And we're going to partake together.。
So,。
so,。
so,。
so,。
so,。
so,。
but this is the foretaste of the kingdom, the kingdom banquet. Let's partake the bread together.。
And the cup as well.。
Let's pray a final time. Father, once again, we give you thanks because of the great love that。
you have for us. We are standing at the foot of the cross and we are amazed and wonder by your love.。
Thank you for accepting us. Thank you for, for, for your righteousness, that we are fully justified。
because of what your son has done for us. And thank you for this hope of future banquet.。
And I pray that our life will turn to you, will obey you, will listen to your word.。
In Christ name we pray. Well, God bless you all and grant you peace in this Labor Day weekend.。
Right? Yeah. Thank you for coming. And I hope to see you next week. And we're going to have some。
normal Bible study. We're going to have some fun as a fellowship. Okay. You're invited,。
right? But you have to pay for it, pay for your own. We're going to barbecue next.。
