But we will continue our theme of worship and let's continue to survey what the Bible。
has to say about worship.。
And I told you from the beginning to the end it's all about worship because God is going。
to dwell in the midst of us, dwell in the midst of the people and He want us to have。
fellowship with Him.。
So from the Garden of Eden to Tabernacle to today it is the Temple.。
And when the Israelites settled down in the land of Canaan in the Promised Land, they。
have King David had Jerusalem to be the capital of the small nation.。
And then God told Solomon to build the first temple.。
And there was so much details in the Bible from the book of First Kings and talking about。
the details of the building of the temple and we're going to spend some more time in。
the first 11 chapters of First Kings.。
So we have the Bible turn to First Kings chapter 1 to 11.。
How about that?。
Okay 1 to 11.。
There were tons of things, details about the reign of Solomon from First Kings chapter。
1 to 11.。
Now let me ask you this question.。
Okay what does a good king need to rule a nation?。
If you are the king, alright, or queen, alright, if you need to rule the nation, rule over。
the people, what do you need?。
What do you need?。
The Bible is trying to present to us King Solomon and everything that he needs to rule。
the nations.。
Alright?。
So how about if you're a king, you need wisdom to rule the people, right?。
Get it?。
And you need wisdom to judge, you need wisdom to manage your country and that is what God。
has given to Solomon.。
Okay?。
So let's take a quick survey of how the Bible describes King Solomon and then finally he。
builds a temple.。
Alright, First Kings chapter 4, 30.。
His wisdom, God has given him, exceeded that of all the wise men of the east and the wise。
men of Egypt.。
His fame spread throughout all surrounding nations.。
Now if you understand, you know, kind of the Bible map, Israel is right at the center of。
the ancient world.。
Right?。
You've got Egypt, Babylon, Hittite, all the countries are surrounding Israel and Israel。
is right in the middle.。
And first verse 31 it says, the name or the fame of Solomon spread throughout all the。
surrounding nations.。
And he composed how many prophets and how many songs?。
3,001,005 songs.。
Right?。
So he's a songwriter.。
You know, Rachel told me, Taylor Swift composed all the songs for her new album, On the Row.。
Right?。
How crazy is that?。
Taylor Swift.。
Right?。
30 songs, like 30 songs.。
On the Row, when she was doing the ERA tour.。
That's crazy.。
Right?。
But Solomon composed 1,005 songs.。
Right?。
There was so much wisdom to this guy.。
Other than wisdom, what do you need to rule the nation?。
How about money?。
Right?。
And defense.。
Right?。
First King chapter 10, 26.。
Solomon built up a huge force of chariots and horses.。
He had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horses.。
And the king made silver as plentiful in Jerusalem as stone.。
Now if you have visited Jerusalem, you know stones are everywhere.。
Stone as pavement, stone hills, stone valley, because Jerusalem is in a mountainous area.。
But here Solomon made silver as plentiful in Jerusalem as stone.。
Right?。
You count how many stones, that's how much silver or gold he has.。
All right?。
And then military might.。
Right?。
12,000 horses.。
That means perfect number of horses.。
There's so much military defense Solomon has built up.。
And what else do you need to rule the nations?。
How about international relation?。
Right?。
Just like United States has a lot of different alliance around the world.。
Right?。
Solomon did have some alliance.。
11.3.。
He said Solomon has 700 wives of royal birth and 300 concubines.。
How many of them?。
1,000.。
Right?。
1,000 of them.。
Right?。
How many wives he had?。
700 wives.。
Now we always come to some description like this.。
We always think, okay, it is about, you know, sexual desire.。
Right?。
Well, it's part of it.。
But the big part of it, why he has so many wives and queens?。
Because he is making diplomatic relationship with all the surrounding nations.。
Right?。
They send a daughter or queen to Solomon and marry to him.。
And that's how you build international relation in those days.。
However, it has a little note there.。
And these wives did turn his heart away from the Lord.。
Alright?。
So, you got wisdom, you got economic, military power, and then diplomacy.。
Right?。
And then in the Near East, all the kings, if they are good kings, they will build temple.。
They will build temples for their biggest God.。
Alright?。
So, that's what Solomon did.。
And God allowed him to do that.。
So, here 1st King chapter 6 verse 2.。
The temple that King Solomon built for the Lord was 60 cubits long.。
One cubit is about one and a half feet long.。
20 cubit wide and 30 cubit high.。
And it also said in verse 1, in what year?。
480 year after the Israelites had come out of Egypt.。
So finally when Solomon built the temple, the Exodus is over.。
Right?。
Remember the story of Exodus?。
The Israelites being saved by grace, by Yahweh, by God.。
And they crossed the Red Sea and came through the wilderness.。
And for so many years, finally they settled down in the Promised Land.。
And King David was made the king over all the 12 tribes.。
And he settled down in Jerusalem and make Jerusalem the capital.。
And his son Solomon finally built the temple.。
And here verse 1 of chapter 6.。
480 year after the Israelites had come out of Egypt.。
Finally they settled down in Jerusalem and Exodus is over.。
So as you can see, the Bible spends a lot of words to describe the reign of a king.。
And because the people in the Bible are in the king.。
The king represents them.。
The king, if it's a good king, then the people will be good.。
Right?。
If the king worship other gods, then all the people, because they are being represented。
and they are in the king, they will follow other gods as well.。
So after all these descriptions of Solomon, let us see how the Bible evaluate Solomon.。
And one of the places that we can go to is the book of Deuteronomy.。
The fifth book of the Bible.。
Because Deuteronomy is like a constitution for ancient Israel.。
And it lays out a lot of rules and regulations for the nation and for the king.。
And part of the passage here is, well by the way, this is the model of King Solomon's。
first temple.。
On the upper left is the city of David, which is on a small mountain ridge.。
And up there on top is the temple and the palace complex.。
That's the city of David.。
Zion, or Jerusalem.。
On the right is the model for first temple of Solomon.。
What is the shape of the temple?。
Rectangular, right?。
It's rectangular.。
And inside the rectangular, there's a square, right?。
Perfect square.。
That is the holy of holies.。
And on your lower left is the temple cross section, right?。
You see inside there's a square inside, the room inside.。
There's a couple of creatures guarding the holy of holies.。
Who are those guys?。
Cherubim, right?。
Cherubim.。
If you know nothing about the series, Cherubim is your guy.。
Anyways, we go to how the Torah, how the Bible evaluate a king.。
One of the passages, very important passage, is about kingship.。
Deuteronomy chapter 17.。
God told his people through Moses, he said, "You are about to enter the land the Lord。
your God is giving you.。
If this happens, which it did happen, be sure to select as king the man the Lord your God。
chooses."。
16, "The king must not build up a large stable of horses for himself.。
The king must not take many wives for himself because they will turn his heart away from。
the Lord.。
He must not accumulate large amounts of wealth in silver and gold for himself."。
That's interesting.。
That's the constitution of ancient Israel.。
It has so much to say about the king, right?。
When you elect a king, when he is going to rule, there are three dongs here, right?。
Can you see that?。
Do not build up your military might.。
Do not have many wives.。
It means international diplomacy.。
Do not accumulate a lot of gold and silver, right?。
That's what the king of Israel is set apart from other kings surrounding nations.。
Because he's going to depend on God, right?。
He's not going to have a lot of money accumulated for himself.。
Not a lot of military might for himself and diplomatic relationship for himself.。
Because he's going to trust God and God will protect him, right?。
God will protect his border.。
God will fight for his battle, right?。
Interesting if you compare this to King Solomon.。
King Solomon is doing contrary to the Torah.。
And what does the king have to do?。
It continues to say, "If the king sits on throne as king, the king must copy for himself。
this body of instruction, the Torah on the scroll in the presence of the priest.。
And he must always keep that copy with him and read it daily as long as he lives.。
That way he will learn to fear the Lord his God by obeying all the terms of the covenant.。
All the terms in the instructions and decrees, right?。
So that's so special about Israel's king.。
Is that he is not going to do what other pagan kings would do.。
He is going to trust in God and what does he have to do?。
He has to do Bible study.。
He has to study the word of God.。
He has to understand the will of God.。
He has to copy himself a scroll of Torah and he has to keep a copy for himself and read。
it daily as long as he lives.。
Because only by doing so, he is going to learn how to fear the Lord his God.。
And he continues to say, "This reading, regular reading, will prevent the king from。
being proud and acting as if he is above his brothers, his fellow citizens.。
It will also prevent him from turning away from these commands in the smallest way.。
It will ensure that he and his descendants will reign for many generations in Israel."。
Right?。
You know what the word of God will do in your life?。
If you read it continuously, obediently, trying to understand and listen to the voice of God。
and trying to understand the will of God and submit yourself in front of, before the word。
of God, the Bible will do something in your life.。
Right?。
It will make you less proud.。
It will make you humble.。
It will make you understand that your might and your resources are not from you.。
It's from God himself.。
It's from the God who has loved you, who has protected you.。
You read the word of God daily.。
You read the word of God continuously.。
It will have effect in your life.。
Right?。
That's why I want to encourage you to continue to read the word of God.。
So let's talk about the king of Israel.。
The top guy in the hierarchy.。
The Torah says you have to have the king make a copy and continuously obey the terms and。
obey the voice of God and to read it daily as long as he lives.。
And this will prevent him from being proud.。
It will make him humble and he will continue to fear God.。
And that is the blessing of Solomon.。
Solomon is being elected as the king of Israel and God gave him so much blessing, the wisdom,。
the power, the economic resources.。
That is the blessing he has.。
But as we continue to dig into the description in the Bible about Solomon, you find that。
this king's life is a tragedy.。
It's a tragedy.。
And what happened here?。
Now my first part of the sermon, I talk about the blessings that Solomon had.。
Right?。
And here is the second part, we're going to reflect on what is going on in his life.。
What went wrong?。
The tragedy in King Solomon.。
And let me remind you when we read the Bible, we read the Bible, we cannot know what the。
Bible means until we know how it means.。
That means you have to understand the design of the passages, design of the chapters.。
What different passages are being put together in such a way to communicate its meaning.。
So we have to understand how, you know, 1 Kings chapter 1 to 11, how it's being designed。
carefully in order to tell you what is going on in the life of King Solomon.。
Here let me show you the whole structure that is being suggested by some Bible students。
or Bible scholars, how the first 11 chapters talking about the reign of Solomon, the entire。
reign of Solomon is being captured in 11 chapters.。
First King chapter 1 to first King chapter 11.。
Now as you can see, this is a very common structure.。
We studied the Gospel of Mark, right?。
Remember in the Gospel of Mark, there were many sandwiches, right?。
And the sandwiches, if you have a sandwich, the middle part is the content, right?。
It's the most important thing.。
And so often it goes with, like you talk about the Bible author, we talk about A, and then。
you talk about B, and then he'll come back to talk about A again, right?。
So it's A, B, A, a very simple sandwich structure.。
Here in first King chapter 1 to 11, it's a huge sandwich.。
It's a multi-layer sandwich.。
As you can see from chapter 1 to chapter 2, there was a prophet, Nathan.。
He intervenes with the succession of kingship.。
So in chapter 1 of first King, King David was going to die, right?。
He was totally disabled, dysfunctional to rule his nation.。
And then they were talking about who's going to succeed him on the throne.。
That is A. And then B, Solomon's being elected, being anointed to be the king after David.。
And Yahweh, God eliminates all the threats to make sure Solomon's kingdom is secure.。
That's B. And then C is the early promise of God to Solomon.。
Giving him wisdom, giving him promises.。
And then part D, chapter 3, verse 16 to 4, 34.。
And you see Solomon receiving the blessing from God.。
He uses his gift for the people and judge them fairly in justice.。
And then part E is preparation for building the temple.。
Chapter 5, right?。
5, 1 to 18.。
And then F, he builds the temple.。
Chapter 6.。
And all those details and architectural details talking about the first temple, right?。
How long it is, how wide it is, how high it is, and all the gold and silver and all that。
stuff.。
And then you come to the middle part of the sandwich.。
Part G is that Solomon builds his palaces.。
His palace complex.。
We can call it rifle buildings because the palace is bigger than the temple.。
And then the biblical author, after talking about Solomon building rifle buildings, he。
comes back to talk about the temple, right?。
Do you see that?。
And then he talks about dedicating the temple, which is a pair with part E, E prime and E.。
And then D prime, D with apostrophe, Solomon uses his gift for himself now, right?。
And then part C, C prime, is his failure.。
And then lastly, B and A, talking about Yahweh, is going to raise up enemies to threaten his。
security.。
While at the beginning, God gives him peace, if he turns away from God, God is going to。
raise up enemies and troubles for him.。
And then finally, in chapter 11, another prophet comes in and determines who's going to succeed。
King Solomon.。
And the kingdom split into north and south.。
So as you can see, the Bible is trying to design in such a way to tell you what is going。
on here.。
And it has to do with the theme of worship.。
First you notice chapter 6, chapter 6, part F here, it details how Solomon built the temple.。
Now logically, the story should go on to 713, because it talks about how he builds the temple,。
and then should continue to finish the account of building the temple.。
However, the author interrupts the flow of the story, and he's trying to tell you Solomon。
built his own palace, the rival buildings.。
Now let's take a look at the turning point of the entire story, which is part G right。
there, which is the end of chapter 6 and the beginning of chapter 7.。
Do you find it fun?。
I find it fun reading the Bible, right?。
It's not just giving you a straightforward account.。
It gives you spiritual meaning.。
When he talks about the story of Solomon, it's not just giving you, okay, it's not giving。
you a Wikipedia.。
It's giving you a theological meaning that you can think about.。
It's like a warning, or it's like a spiritual reminder to all of us.。
What does it mean when we worship God?。
Just like King Solomon, he was supposed to worship God by building the temple, but at。
some turning point, he changes.。
He changes.。
Now let's look at the turning point, which is the end of chapter 6 and the beginning。
of chapter 7.。
Well, by the way, this is this translation, all right?。
So as you can see, the turning point is Solomon is building his own palace complex for himself.。
Now here's the turning point.。
Pay attention.。
Chapter 6, 37.。
The foundation of the Lord's temple was laid in mid-spring in the month of Seth.。
During the fourth year of Solomon's reign, 38, the entire building was completed in every。
detail by mid-autumn in the month of Bul, during the 11th year of his reign.。
So it took seven years for Solomon to build a temple for God.。
Chapter 7, verse 1.。
But Solomon also built a palace for himself.。
And it took him how long to build?。
It took him 13 years to complete the construction of his own palace.。
Right?。
Do you see what's going on here?。
He used seven years to build the temple for Yahweh, for God.。
And then now he built his own palace for his own, how many years did it take him to build?。
13 years, right?。
Almost twice as long.。
Almost twice as long.。
And here, the translation here, I want to emphasize one thing.。
Is that for himself, did you see that?。
For his own.。
For his own enjoyment and for his own kingdom.。
His own security.。
So the palaces of Solomon is being built actually bigger than the temple.。
If you check the rest of chapter 7, it talks about five different palace buildings Solomon。
had built for himself.。
And they have different names.。
And you check the dimensions, the blueprint is actually bigger, much bigger than the temple。
of God.。
I think the message is pretty clear.。
That this is a matter of priority.。
When Solomon built a temple worshiping God, right?。
He was doing okay.。
But in the midst of it, all of a sudden, there was a turning point in his priority.。
He put his own kingdom above God's kingdom.。
He puts the people's worship for him more important than the people's worship for God.。
Right?。
I think the lesson is clear.。
In the midst of worshiping God, building the temple, Solomon somehow shifted his focus。
from God to himself.。
There's competition of priority in our life, right?。
There's always competition of priority in our life.。
Always.。
In all life stages, right?。
When I was younger, when I was in my mid-20s, late-20s, I was building up my own career.。
Right?。
I mean, you can treat ministry as a career, right?。
Because I want to stand firm, right?。
I want to establish my ministry.。
And there's always competition of priority, right?。
Sometimes I would devote too much energy in my own career, in my own ministry, more so。
than my personal relationship with God.。
Right?。
Now, at times, you know, I forgot to read the Bible.。
I forgot to meditate on the Word of God.。
I forgot to cultivate my relationship with God.。
And then, after I got married, you know, there were competition of priority, right?。
Because my wife would be the competition of my priority, right?。
She wants me to take care of her, right?。
And there's so many things to build up the family, right?。
And then, not to mention, when the kids come, right?。
Oh boy, they are the competitors of priority in my life, right?。
I have to take care of them almost 24/7, right?。
And there's always priority that is messing us up.。
And I think there was a Reformation theologian about 500 years ago.。
His name is John Calvin.。
I think John Calvin said something in his big treaty on systematic theology.。
He says, "Humans, we are all manufacturers of idols."。
We manufacture idols, you know?。
When the Bible talks about idol, Baal, you know, Azshara, all those false gods, right?。
We always think that someone invented them, right?。
Someone put them in front of the people to deceive them and to distract them.。
But John Calvin says, "We are manufacturers of idols."。
If there's nothing that would distract us from the worship of God, we will invent something.。
We'll manufacture something.。
We'll make up something that will compete the priority of God, the place of God in our。
life, right?。
That's what idol means.。
Idol means someone or something that competes the first place of God in our life.。
And here, I think we should really think about what it is that is messing up our life.。
Our priority.。
And what is your priority?。
Do we really believe in God and believe that God is the best and God is worthy of my everything。
because God loves me so much?。
Because God blesses me abundantly, right?。
God provides for me.。
But do we really believe that God is good?。
Or we manufacture other idols that will satisfy our own needs?。
And perhaps if we ask the question, we really don't believe that God will provide.。
We always use our time of worship for idols, right?。
We always use our time to do something else because we really don't believe in the bottom。
of our heart.。
We don't believe that God is really helping me and providing for me so that I can put。
my focus on Him, right?。
Do we really believe that God is the one?。
God is the true God.。
And He is the true God.。
And He loves me so much and He provides for me.。
And that means He is worthy of my entire being.。
My worship.。
That's what happened to King Solomon.。
The turning point of his life is not simply just, he just, all of a sudden he wakes up。
a morning, one morning and he said, "Okay, I'm going to sin against God."。
No.。
He was building the temple, but at the same time there was a matter of priority messed。
up and he started to build his own palaces, build his own sense of security.。
It's the matter of my priority.。
Whether God takes the priority or my own things.。
Whether those things are good or not.。
Now talking about idol, now idols are not necessarily evil in their appearance.。
They can be good things in our life that will compete our priority for God.。
So as we end this message, I would like us to really reflect and think about what is。
your priority?。
Seriously, right?。
It's not what you say, it's how you live.。
Right?。
Because your behavior, your action, speak louder than your words.。
Right?。
We can sing songs and praise God and say that God is the true God and then go and praise。
Him and worship Him.。
However, we have to check our own actions because our actions always speak louder than。
our words.。
Priority, it's God's priority or your own kingdom.。
Now it can be a good thing if you're going to school, if you're building up your career.。
These are good things.。
You want to make enough income to accumulate wealth and your property to make sure that。
you're secure.。
Those are good things.。
You can be raising your own family.。
Those are really good things, beautiful things.。
It can be a hobby.。
Right?。
It can be a hobby, it can be anything in your life and don't get it wrong, those things。
are beautiful and good things and we are being called to manage the resources God has provided。
for us.。
However, if we are not careful, the idols will take over and will compete our priority.。
And all the blessings that God has given you and me will turn into tragedy.。
That's what happened to King Solomon.。
What a lesson to learn in terms of worship.。
Right?。
We're supposed to worship God, put God as number one.。
However, in the midst of it, he builds his own idols and palace complex for himself.。
Now as we end, let's continue to just bow before God.。
To understand, you know, God is the Lord of our lives.。
Right?。
There's one famous saying that says, "If Christ is not the Lord of all, he is not the。
Lord at all."。
In what part of your life is not giving up to God and God is not taking charge?。
Right?。
Let's entrust our lives into our loving God.。
Right?。
Let's all pray.。
Father, as we reflect, there are so many idols in our life that will distract us from following。
you, from worshiping you.。
It may be our career, it may be our future, it may be even our family.。
We try to accumulate wealth and goods and gold and silver so that we can feel secure.。
But in the midst of it, we forgot that you are our security.。
You deserve our full attention.。
So Father, I pray that you will forgive us and cleanse us because we are all sinners,。
we are all broken.。
We are all manufacturers of idols and those idols will compete our priority for you.。
So as we end this worship, let's pray that in this simple way, they will come before。
you.。
We recognize you are Lordship, recognize you are the King over all of us, all aspects。
in our lives.。
And Father, we come before you to entrust our own life, our whole life into your hand.。
And thank you for your Son, Jesus Christ, who died on the cross so that we can have。
new life.。
We can have eternal life, that you can dwell in our life.。
And you deserve our worship.。
I pray that you will humble all of us so we can give the worship of worth to your name.。
And how we live and how we work and how we manage our life will tell other people that。
God, you are great.。
God, you are the Lord.。
So may you continue to just cultivate our relationship with you, knowing that you are。
not our idol, but you are the Lord of our lives.。
You are the Lord of all.。
If there's anything that we struggle of letting go, to have you take control, ask that your。
Spirit will humble us, knowing that we owe everything to you.。
And thank you for being our loving God, God of blessing, God of provision.。
Continue to help us to increase our faith in you, to follow you, to worship you fully.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
God bless you and I hope that this message will remind you and to help you reflect on。
your relationship with God.。
For the rest of the week, God be with you and you go to your work and bear witness for。
the great name of God.。
And then come back next Sunday, we're going to serve God together.。
Remember next Sunday is the MSI outing, right?。
So we're going to begin at 10 o'clock.。
And there's a combined service and then we'll go to MSI and have some fun.。
Alright?。
God bless.。
