Let's do it together.。
All right, let's welcome Pastor Mark.。
- Hey, happy new year.。
Happy new year to all of you.。
And such a good day to be here.。
I know it's snowing outside, right?。
It's still snowing outside?。
'Cause I've been here since 8 p.m.。
So I don't know what's going on outside, you know.。
Huh?。
- 8 p.m.。
- 8 a.m., sorry, 8 a.m., yeah.。
It's been a long day for me,。
and it's been a long week for me.。
So good to see all of you.。
And why don't we shake hands with our neighbors。
and say happy new year,。
or words of blessing to each other.。
Find five neighbors, five neighbors around you.。
Yeah.。
All right, all right, yeah.。
Well, there's some new friends in the midst of us,。
and we wanna welcome you to be in our church.。
Let's round of applause for all the new friends。
who are visiting us the very first time, all right?。
(audience applauding)。
So it's still new year.。
You know, the atmosphere, the color, or whatever。
reminds us what it means to have new year,。
and what it means to have change.。
What do we do as new year kicks in,。
and a new period of time, a new season in our lives?。
I think this is a great reminder for us to just rethink,。
you know, where are we going?。
So we may think of new year's resolutions, right?。
New year goals, all right?。
So let me do a survey here.。
How many of you have your new year resolution,。
and one of your resolution is to lose weight?。
How many of you?。
Yeah, that reminds us, you know,。
this reminds us we have to do it every single year, right?。
Although we already fail, we already fail,。
but that's okay, you know?。
We continue to grow, right?。
Not in weight, but in our spirit, all right?。
You know, some of the new year resolutions,。
some of the new goals that we're gonna set for ourselves,。
or some of the new mindset we want to have.。
So this new year will be reminding us, you know,。
doing something that will require us to change, right?。
So what it is for you, think about it.。
And today, I would like to start a new series。
on the sermon, which is about church,。
about healthy church, healthier church.。
How do we become a healthier church?。
Think of yourself, right?。
You have been a Christian for a long time,。
or maybe a short time, or perhaps you stumble and fall,。
stumble and fall, and along the way, you know,。
you still find your identity in Christ, right?。
And how to be a healthy Christian,。
what does it mean, healthy Christian, right?。
You may have your own, you know, imagination,。
what it means to be a healthy Christian,。
what it means to be a healthier church,。
but you know, we want to, you know,。
go into the word of God, and see what God has to say。
about being a healthier church, right?。
What does it mean to be a healthier Christian?。
Now, as we talk about, you know,。
new year's goals and resolutions,。
you know, we always think of, you know,。
there's some maybe poor habits we need to do away.。
Some new habits we need to redevelop, right, to pick up.。
Something like that, spiritual disciplines, right?。
You know, things like we have to change our lifestyle。
in order to be healthier,。
not just physically, but spiritually as well.。
So think about, as an individual question,。
how we should change in such a way to be healthier,。
and then as a group, as a corporate, as a body,。
as a community, how do we grow together。
to be a healthier church?。
So that is the new topic we need to talk about.。
Now, why do I want to talk about this?。
Because, you know, as you think about church。
as a community, as a family, we talk about relationship.。
Unless our relationship is healthy,。
our church will not be healthy.。
Unless your relationship with other people,。
Christians, non-Christians, brothers and sisters in Christ,。
you know, your siblings in your family,。
your parents or your children,。
unless your relationship is healthy,。
there's no way you can walk。
in a spiritual pathway of God, right?。
So we have to dig into how do we grow our relationship。
in a healthier way in order to be a healthier Christian。
as an individual and as a group, as a church.。
In fact, if you read through the Bible,。
there are many places in the Bible。
that describes church as a family.。
You know, in the first century, 2,000 years ago,。
in the time of Jesus, in the times of the first Christians,。
the early Christians, all churches are house churches.。
So they gather together, not in a separate building,。
but let's say we are the sample here in the first century.。
We're gonna gather together for worship,。
for fellowship on Sunday, on the Lord's Day,。
and we're gonna ask around different people,。
you have a house big enough for us to squeeze in, right?。
To sit together, to sing together, to pray together,。
and to study the word of God together is house church, right?。
It's pretty much the situation in many parts of China.。
Right?。
Having churches not in a separate building, but in houses.。
So when the apostle talks about church,。
he actually described the church as family,。
literally as a family,。
because the church will gather in your living room。
as a family, right?。
And all the members belong to the same family,。
the big family of God, right?。
Where you have, of course, your brother and sisters,。
someone who is directly related to you,。
but many of the other people。
who will squeeze into your living room in the house church。
are related in Christ, right?。
Sister and brothers in Christ.。
So in the days of Paul, all churches are house churches,。
and the family is the basic unit,。
not only just the society,。
but for church, capital C, church.。
That's why in this verse, Ephesians chapter two,。
it says you used to be Gentiles,。
not being part of the kingdom of God,。
not being related to the people of God,。
but now in Christ, you are no longer strangers,。
you're no longer foreigners, you're citizens.。
You are the people, along with all the holy people of God,。
and you belong to the family of God.。
You are members of God's family.。
That's why we need to talk about family relationship, right?。
Because I really believe that。
if our relationships are strong,。
if we are closer, if we grow together,。
then our church will grow.。
Now, if we don't grow in our relationship,。
if we don't grow mature in our relationship,。
our church will be stifled.。
So we need to talk about relationship,。
just as Paul, writing Ephesians, talking about relationship.。
Now, 2022, last year,。
there was a new survey done in United Kingdom, in England.。
So the survey asked a couple of questions.。
One of the question is,。
to ask different people on the street,。
and ask them, how many of you feel that the pandemic。
has improved your family relationship?。
How many of you feel that the pandemic,。
which lasts for how many years?。
Seems like forever.。
Three, four years, right?。
Three years, right?。
How many of you feel that COVID,。
the pandemic, has improved your relationship,。
particularly your marriage or your family relationship,。
parents and children and all that?。
How many of you feel that COVID has,。
three years, have improved your relationship?。
And the result is, take a guess.。
How many of those people, what's the percentage。
that would say COVID will improve our relationship?。
Exactly, one third only, one third only.。
Is that exciting?。
Not very exciting, right?。
Pretty sad.。
The second question is,。
they survey some of the largest family law firms in UK。
about the increase of divorce。
in the past three years of pandemic.。
And these law firms submit their results,。
and there was increase in terms of cases in divorce.。
Take a guess, percentage.。
How many percentage increase because of COVID for divorce?。
50, any?。
I tell you, it's 95%.。
Is that exciting?。
Is that exciting for lawyers?。
Not for the families, right?。
Not for the marriages.。
It is indeed very, very sad,。
because in reality, the pandemic。
has a lot of negative impact on our relationship.。
Now, think about it.。
And we go to the Word of God and say,。
what does God want, right?。
What does He require of us?。
How can we be renewed in our relationship, right?。
Because we are family of Christ, right?。
So I've chosen a passage today from the Bible,。
a very familiar passage.。
And I wanna think about this passage。
and what it means to be a family in Christ.。
What does it mean when Christ comes into our relationships,。
all of our relationships?。
Now, my relationship with my spouse, my children, if any,。
my brother and sisters, my in-laws,。
or my, any of our relationship in church。
or outside of the church, right?。
So let's think about it.。
But as I read through this passage,。
I want you to ask yourself,。
as if you are reading this passage the very first time,。
as you listen to the words of this passage。
the very first time,。
how do you feel about this passage?。
How do you feel about it?。
All right, are you ready?。
You ready?。
I'm gonna read through Ephesians 5,。
verses 21 and following.。
And further, submit to one another。
our reverence for Christ.。
For wives, this means submit to your husbands。
as to the Lord.。
For husband is the head of his wife,。
as Christ is the head of the church.。
He is the savior of his body to church.。
As the church submits to Christ,。
so you wives should submit to your husbands in everything.。
25, for husbands, this means love your wives。
just as Christ loved the church.。
He gave up his life for her to make her holy and clean,。
washed by the cleansing of God's word.。
He did this to present her to himself。
as a glorious church without spot or wrinkle。
or any kind of blemish.。
Instead, she will be holy and without fault.。
28, in the same way,。
husband ought to love their wives。
as they love their own bodies.。
For a man who loves his wife。
actually shows love for himself.。
No one hates his own body, but feeds and cares for it。
just as Christ cares for the church.。
And we are members of his body.。
31, as the scripture says,。
a man lives his father and mother is joined to his wife。
and the two are united into one.。
This is a great mystery,。
but it is an illustration。
of the way Christ and the church are one.。
So again, I say, each man must love his wife。
as he loves himself.。
The wife must respect her husband.。
All right, we're done.。
How do you feel about it?。
How do you feel about this passage,。
you know, reading it or listening to the word。
as if this is the first time?。
How do you feel about it?。
I tell you, as modern readers,。
there is something really hard to swallow, right?。
Some even find this passage oppressive,。
you know, because it seems like the passage。
is encouraging some sort of blind obedience, right?。
Especially for, on part of the wives, right?。
If you're a wife, if you're a female,。
you probably will read this passage as a modern reader,。
you will find trouble understanding what it means, right?。
Because we value 21st century, we modern people,。
we value equality, right?。
Husband and wives, you know, they are equal in status.。
So you may feel that it is so old and traditional, right?。
Wives, you know, we believe are not subjects,。
but partners in marriage.。
Amen?。
Amen, right?。
And we respect each other, there's no blind obedience.。
And even the servants,。
the following context will tell us,。
even the servants need to be free, right?。
They need to be free men.。
So how can this passage be related to us?。
That's the big question.。
What is the passage really talking about?。
Now, I think you heard me before.。
As we read the Bible, we need to understand。
the Bible is not written to us,。
but the Bible is written for us.。
Got it?。
The Bible is not directly written to us, right?。
There's no way by saying this would devalue,。
you know, the sacredness of scripture.。
Because as God revealed himself through scripture,。
he has to use some of the ideologies,。
some of the wordings that were familiar。
to the first audience, right?。
In order to communicate to them, right?。
Using the language or the cultural values。
that they are familiar with,。
and to communicate some eternal truth to them, right?。
So it's not directly written to us,。
it's directly written to them, using their language,。
using their categories to communicate。
some of the eternal truth that would be applicable。
for all cultures and all times and space, right?。
So it's not written directly to us, it's written directly。
to them.。
So we have to understand the scripture。
or read the scripture as if we were。
first century Christians.。
If we live in the Roman Empire, in the time of Jesus,。
in the time of Paul, then we probably will be better,。
on a better place to understand the real meaning。
of the scripture.。
Now, as you can tell, you know, every society has their own,。
you know, understanding of the responsibility。
and roles of, you know, different members, right?。
Male are expected to do something, right?。
Or behave in such a way.。
And female are expected to behave in some other way, right?。
Every society, you know, ancient or modern,。
there are always some sort of, you know, social categories。
to, well, you can say box in,。
but, you know, in some way it's to define who we are, right?。
Based on gender or based on, you know, different roles。
in the society, in the relationship.。
Now, it is the same way in the first century,。
in biblical time, in the Roman Empire.。
There was some sort of, you know,。
social understanding of how wife should behave。
and how husband should behave,。
how the master of the household should behave, right?。
It's just part of the social fabric of the time.。
Now, reading this passage in the first century context,。
we can call it household codes,。
household regulations, household principles, right?。
I know you probably heard of a name called Aristotle,。
right, Aristotle.。
Ring any bell?。
Aristotle is a great philosopher, a great teacher.。
He wrote a lot of things about social relationship.。
And in one of his writings called "Politics,"。
Aristotle talked about household management.。
And he said about regarding household management,。
there were three parts.。
There were three different dynamics。
for every head of the household he has to manage.。
The first one is the rule of a master over slaves,。
over the servants.。
The second aspect is the rule of a father over the children.。
And then the third one is a husband ruling over the wives.。
Now, three categories or three aspects。
of a man's relationship in the entire household.。
Now, this is called the household code, right?。
So that is the popular understanding on the street.。
So if you go back to Rome in Jesus' day,。
in the first century,。
and you ask the people on the street, right,。
male or female, you ask them, "Hey, what's the role?"。
"Oh, you are male."。
"What is your role and responsibility?。
"What is your duty in the household?"。
And he would probably be able to cite you。
something like that.。
Oh, there are three ways I need to relate。
to my household and manage them.。
One is my servant, and one is my children,。
one is my wife, right?。
So they would be able to tell you that the popular idea。
that a male will rule over his household as a sovereign,。
almost like absolute authority.。
And the male is ruling the subordinates,。
and the subordinates are the servants, right?。
The wife and the children.。
So there are three parts, right?。
So the consensus is that the man is justified。
to rule over his household because wives, servants,。
and children are by nature inferiors, right?。
They are subordinates, they are to submit.。
So the purpose of the household codes like this。
in Paul's day, in the first century,。
is to maintain a good order,。
a good hierarchical order in the Roman Empire.。
The Roman society is peaceful, is secure,。
is all because all the household heads,。
the males, the sovereign in the household。
are managing the family properly.。
Now with that understanding,。
you go to the book of Ephesians,。
you find something really interesting。
'cause Paul is almost citing or using some of these ideas,。
but he used it and twisted it in such a way。
and turned it upside down.。
Now if you're familiar with the book of Ephesians,。
as Paul talks about the family church,。
the family relationship, he talks about three parts.。
First, what we have just read,。
husband and wife relationship.。
And then the second part, if you go on with the passage,。
he talks about a father and children.。
And then he talks about what?。
Master and slaves, right?。
Master and servants.。
But Paul is not just copycatting the ideas of his day.。
He's using the idea of his day,。
the social understanding of his day,。
and put a new meaning in Christ.。
Twist it and almost turn it upside down.。
Let me tell you the context, okay?。
We just read 522 to 33.。
If you keep on reading,。
he talks about other relationship, right?。
Now let me try to demonstrate.。
If we were in the first century,。
hearing the words of Paul in the book of Ephesians,。
as if the first time, right?。
You're all familiar with the idea of a household。
from Aristotle, right?。
People on the street, they always assume that kind of idea.。
The male head, all the other people in the household。
are subordinates, right?。
And then Paul comes in, and he's using a similar idea,。
and he talked to different parties in the household.。
Now let me demonstrate how probably a male would feel,。
what he would feel like when he heard this word。
first time, first century.。
522, Paul writes, "Wives, pay attention, listen up.。
"You need to submit, right?。
"You need to do this and that, right, to your husbands."。
And then if you're a male in the congregation,。
hearing the words the very first time,。
what would be your response?。
I would imagine if I'm a male,。
and I hear this 522 to 24.。
Wives, you need to submit to your husband.。
I'll go, my response is, "Yeah, of course."。
Of course the wives have to submit to me, right?。
Because I'm the head of the household.。
And the 525, Paul comes in and say,。
"But, but hey, husbands, the males, listen up."。
And there's a long verses, you know, 25 to 33,。
actually so much longer than the passage。
we've done for the wives.。
Listen up, men.。
Lord Jesus comes in.。
He is the sovereign, not you, right?。
And this is what you do.。
Remember what 25 to 23 says?。
Jesus died for the church,。
sacrificed himself for the church.。
This is how you love your wife, right?。
And as a male reader, I would go, "What?。
"Why does it concern me?"。
Because that's not what the slogan says, right?。
I mean, all the commands are given to the subordinates,。
right, to submit.。
Not for me.。
However, Paul turns it upside down and say,。
"Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, men, slow down."。
Because there's a new sovereign coming into your household.。
And you are now become a steward.。
You're no longer the absolute authority.。
You're accountable to Lord Jesus Christ.。
And look at how he managed the household of Christ,。
the household of church.。
He died and sacrificed, right?。
He loved selflessly.。
And then six, one to three, children, right?。
Hey, kids, listen up.。
You know, this is what you do.。
You have to respect your parents and all that stuff, right?。
As a male reader, I would say, "Yeah, of course, right?。
"My kid has to submit to me."。
And then six, four, Paul comes in and say,。
"Surprise, you know, fathers, listen up.。
"There's something for you to do。
"because you are now in the Lord.。
"You are not the sovereign.。
"Jesus is the sovereign."。
Same way for servants.。
Servant, listen up, right?。
All the employees in your household,。
yeah, of course, they need to work hard and faithfully.。
However, six, nine, Paul comes in and say,。
"Hey, masters, listen up as well.。
"You men, you better behave。
"because Lord Jesus Christ is above you, right?"。
There was a, can you see that?。
There was a, there was a,。
a fraudy reconstruction or reconfiguration。
when Christ Jesus comes into your family,。
into your church.。
This is what we call subversive.。
Paul is using similar familiar ideas,。
but he turns it upside down。
all because Christ Jesus comes in, right?。
Now, it's reorganization, right?。
Look, before I entered ministry,。
I used to work in a chemistry lab.。
I was a sort of a biochemist.。
I was working in a environmental lab for some time.。
And I remember I was working for this lab。
and I was in the office。
and there were other co-workers beside me, right?。
And I still remember there's one co-worker。
I really dislike, all right?。
I really dislike, you know why?。
You know why?。
You know me, right?。
I work hard.。
I'm a very good worker, all right?。
Right?。
And that co-worker that I dislike,。
he comes in late and he exit early.。
He hardly do anything and he's lazy boy.。
I was like, how is that possible。
that I'm a new worker。
and he has been working there for years?。
And then after some weeks,。
I learned about the relationship in the department。
and I realized he is actually directly related。
to the department head.。
He's some sort of relatives to the department head.。
I said, bingo, bingo, that's why.。
That's why he hardly working, right?。
He's hardly working and he's getting paid, right?。
It's such an unfair situation.。
Have you ever encountered a situation like that?。
Right?。
That's so unfair because they are blood with relatives,。
right?。
So of course he's protecting his cousin, right?。
And he's getting paid by just showing up for a little bit.。
So I feel really oppressed, to say the least.。
And then I remember one day,。
the CEO of the company,。
the head of heads, right?。
He fired the department head。
and he hired a new department head to replace him.。
It's very interesting after that,。
the co-worker that I dislike,。
he start working hard.。
It's very interesting, his life almost turned around.。
It's because the department head now is new,。
is under new configuration.。
There's a new head now, right?。
So he has to change his behavior,。
has to change how he works.。
Now this is an analogy of Ephesians 5 and 6.。
The household is working well according to Roman,。
Greco-Roman values.。
However, when Christ Jesus comes in,。
everything will be reorganized.。
Now he's the head.。
Everyone is kept accountable under Jesus.。
The values will be different, right?。
The order of the relationship has changed.。
Just like this.。
The left is the old order.。
The male is up there above, right?。
Unchallenged or unchallengeable.。
And then wife and children and servants,。
they are all subordinates.。
And then there's a reorganization happening in Christ.。
If you believe in Jesus,。
every single of your religious should change。
in a very fundamental way.。
And that's the right side, the new order.。
Christ is above all of them.。
Male, female, children, servants,。
all are accountable to one sovereign, one Lord,。
one Lordship of Jesus Christ.。
Someone is more powerful than anyone in the household.。
That is the fundamental change。
that should happen in our lives.。
If you believe in Jesus,。
when Jesus comes into your home,。
coming to our home, coming to our family,。
every relationship will be reordered in such a way。
that we, every one of us,。
will be accountable to the one true Lord, Jesus Christ.。
So how does it work?。
How does it work?。
I remember, I don't know if you listen to radio.。
Radio is an old thing, right?。
You radio program, do you listen to it regularly?。
Don't, or no, right?。
Sometimes I listen to radio programs.。
I remember not too long ago,。
I was working in the church,。
it was very, very late, very late, almost 11 p.m.。
And then I was driving home.。
Takes about five to 10 minutes.。
And then the radio was on, right?。
I didn't intentionally turn to one of the programs,。
but it was on.。
And 11 p.m., almost midnight,。
what kind of program would be air in a radio station?。
You know, those songs, "Dedication Time," right?。
The caller will call in to the radio station。
and call the DJ and say something really touching, right?。
Expressing love and all that stuff, right?。
And then I didn't really pay attention。
until I was a couple blocks away from the church。
on the way home.。
And I listened up and there was a middle-aged man,。
50-plus year old.。
He call in, he call in to the radio station.。
And he said to the DJ and saying,。
"Hey, you know, I have been married。
"with this woman of my love for 25 years,。
"but I have never,。
"I've never taken the opportunity to apologize,。
"to say a formal apology.。
"So I want to dedicate this song to her。
"because I love her.。
"For 25 years, I have been not really properly。
"related to her, and especially in our communication.。
"And I want to dedicate this song to her。
"and I want to say sorry.。
"And I want to change."。
You know, in those moments,。
you know, I almost crashed, you know,。
almost crashed because I was paying attention.。
I was like, wow, you know, that takes a lot of courage.。
Right?。
You know, as a male, I find myself,。
that's pretty hard to do, you know?。
Would you do that?。
You as male, as a man,。
you probably would not have the guts to do it, right?。
But I was listening to him and I listened to the song.。
I forgot what song it is, but you know, anyways.。
I said to myself, that is how Christ should change。
our family, our marriage, our relationships, right?。
Admitting our wrong, right?。
There's no sovereign, I cannot do something like apology。
because I'm ultimately accountable to Christ, right?。
That is the new order, right?。
That's how it works in our family, in our marriage.。
That's how it works with our relationship。
with other brothers and sisters.。
The old order would say, you know, I insist on my way.。
The new order, when Christ comes in,。
there's forgiveness, there's understanding,。
there's proactive communication, right?。
This is how Christ should change our,。
your marriage, family, and relationship.。
Well, let's work on that.。
Let's really work on that.。
It's a new year, new phase of our lives, work on that.。
What does it mean for you when you say Jesus is Lord?。
How does it affect fundamentally and practically。
your relationship with other people, right?。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, thank you for loving us.。
That Jesus, your son and only son,。
would come and sacrifice himself on the cross。
to die for us, to save us and redeem us.。
Thank you for your lordship.。
It's not a lordship of power,。
but a lordship of love and grace.。
And I pray that as we launch into a new year,。
your lordship will mean to us,。
fundamentally and practically,。
will renew and change our relationship.。
We welcome you, welcome you to be our Lord,。
to be our savior.。
Now pray that you will renew our relationships,。
whether it's a relationship with our spouses,。
with our brother and sisters, our in-laws,。
our family members, even our spiritual family members.。
Now pray that your love will fill us。
and change us in such a way that we'll honor you.。
And thank you for being our loving Lord.。
And thank you for being,。
for the blessing to be your church.。
And I pray that Jesus, you will be our Lord.。
You will lead us and change us。
in such a way to honor your name.。
In Christ's name, we'll pray.。
Well, God bless you and happy new year.。
And there is a bag of blessing。
we're going to distribute to all of you。
who haven't gotten one.。
Make sure you get one, all right?。
I don't know what's in there,。
but it should be good things.。
All right, and then this afternoon,。
we're going to have a fellowship meal together。
at Gene Fung's house church, all right?。
So you're all welcome to come.。
And I don't know what kind of good food they prepare。
or we prepare, or we bring our own dish, right?。
I'm sorry, I'm sorry.。
So it's a potluck, okay?。
It's a potluck.。
So you bring something good。
and I'm sure it will be a great time。
of fellowship together, all right?。
I'll see you later.。
