I believe that in 1974, when Linda Stratton wrote "Sing Hallelujah to the Lord",。
she never imagined that this song would become a song that has a political connection to the present.。
In Hong Kong, when there are police officers and government officials,。
the public surround them and sing "Sing Hallelujah to the Lord".。
Indeed, when we listen to this song,。
the tune of this song is very calming and calming.。
When we sing this song, we can feel that there is a greater truth and peace in this world.。
In this turbulent and unstable world, everyone wants to be safe.。
This song has five verses.。
Many people sing this song, including those who do not know Jesus Christ.。
What message does this song want to convey?。
Let me explain the meaning of the five verses.。
The first verse is "Sing Hallelujah to the Lord".。
"Hallelujah" means "Praise the Lord".。
It is a praise from the bottom of the heart.。
How beautiful is God?。
The four verses of this song give us some inspiration.。
The second verse is "Jesus is risen from the dead".。
In the Christian faith, Jesus Christ is the Son of God.。
He died on the cross to save people.。
He saved people from being released from sin.。
When he died, he conquered death and the evil that controls people's lives.。
Why do we praise the Lord?。
Because God saved us from death and saved us from being released.。
So that people can have a new beginning.。
The third verse is "Jesus is Lord of heaven and earth".。
This is a very important message.。
In the first chapter of Genesis, God created the world.。
When we understand the word "creation",。
we understand that it is not about evolution or creation.。
For the Jews, it is very practical.。
If this world is created by our Lord,。
it means that this world is owned by this Lord.。
If this world is owned by this Lord,。
we must obey him because he is the master of this world.。
He is the Lord of heaven and earth.。
That is, no sovereignty in the world can be greater than Jesus Christ.。
No sovereignty is greater than the Lord of heaven and earth.。
The Lord of heaven and earth reminds those who believe in the Lord that there is only one Lord in the world.。
The fourth verse is "Jesus is living in his church".。
It is true that the Bible always says that the head of the church is the Christian,。
but the body is the church.。
It means that people should see Jesus,。
Jesus' goodness, Jesus' kindness, Jesus' kindness, Jesus' justice,。
through the true believers.。
Some people say, "Ask Jesus to come and see me."。
Jesus has already come to see you and me.。
He tells people through the church what is justice and what is love.。
The fifth verse is "Jesus is coming for his own".。
When Jesus Christ created this world,。
he saw that the world was harmed by sin,。
and that the relationship between man and God was completely destroyed,。
and that when people lived in sin and tears,。
God came to this world to conquer evil and death.。
He came to this world again.。
In the 21st chapter of the Book of Ecclesiastes,。
the third and fourth verses say that God is in the world,。
and that God will be in this world again.。
There will be no more death, sorrow, and pain.。
These teachings are included in the verses.。
But what do they mean to us?。
They give us a few meanings.。
First, when we sing this song,。
we must remember that there is a God in heaven who loves us.。
He is not only coming to get rid of the unjust world government。
and the unfair social system.。
Those are important.。
But most importantly, he wants you to know him,。
so that our lives can be changed,。
so that the evil and death in our lives can be solved.。
When I was young, there was a saying that came out of my mind.。
"Every day, five or four young people visit each other."。
Every person, every regime can turn from love and hatred to evil.。
Only when Jesus Christ returns to this world,。
can we turn the world around.。
One of the ways to change our lives is to save us,。
so that we can be set free from sin,。
so that people in this world can see what love and justice are.。
So, first, he hopes that when you sing this song,。
you will not only see the problems in society,。
but also your own problems, and be willing to return to him.。
He also wants people to know that he is the true master of the world.。
All the regimes in the world,。
whether you are a democratic or an extreme right wing society,。
all have the tendency to tell us that he is the true master.。
Sorry, the true master of this world is Jesus Christ.。
So, the church in this world is telling everyone in this world。
that there is only one master in this world.。
And this master invites us to live a new life of another kind of nation,。
a new life, a life of love, a life of justice,。
a life of justice, peace and love.。
The regime is not our master.。
We are not our own masters.。
The rich are not our masters.。
Only Jesus Christ is our master.。
So, here is the second reminder for us.。
When we sing this song,。
we are welcoming the fact that there is a master who loves us.。
He is waiting for us.。
Finally, the church is telling people to know Jesus,。
to believe in the Christian community of Jesus Christ.。
The church on earth is telling people that there is love,。
there is light, and it comes from Jesus Christ.。
He will ultimately rule this world,。
and bring people back to his side once again,。
and give them true freedom.。
So, when we sing this song today,。
whether you are a Christian or not,。
I hope you will sing this song,。
and you will see the God who commands justice and peace.。
I do not deny that God really wants us to。
carry out justice and peace in society.。
This is important.。
But at the same time,。
he also invites you and me to walk with him.。
Our life is to be returned to him,。
and our life is to be led by Jesus Christ,。
not by any regime.。
We are to be led by Jesus Christ,。
to reveal the love of justice and peace。
in our society,。
and to wait for him to return,。
to show the love of justice and peace。
to the whole world.。
You and I live every day。
to reveal the love of justice and peace of Jesus Christ.。
I hope that at this moment,。
we can experience God's peace,。
peace, and blessings to everyone.。
[END]。
[END]。
[END]。
[END]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
