Family, it's good to be with you again.。
And as we've been having this conversation over the past few weeks and talking about。
all the stuff that's going on in our world, I've been trying to point you to some voices。
in the church and some voices in the African American community that can speak to these。
issues really well.。
And so today I wanted to sit down with a couple of my really good friends.。
And this is Wade Norman and Eric Cummings.。
And they're good friends of mine and they're men who love Jesus and men who are serving。
Jesus with their lives.。
But they're also black men who've grown up in Chicago and been here their whole lives.。
And so these things that are happening right now in the news that we're all thinking about。
and discussing and trying to understand how to respond to, these events are realities。
of their experience that they've dealt with for a long time.。
And so I really want you to be able to hear their voice and hear their hearts and hear。
what God has done in their lives and how God has taught them and hear how God wants to。
teach us right now and the things that God would have to say to us.。
So guys, to start, why don't you just share.。
I know these moments feel different for everybody.。
And for you guys, these moments are a part of your experience and have been.。
And so if you could just share what that feels like a little bit, some of the emotions they。
have to navigate, some of the pain that's involved, some of what that is.。
You.。
Yeah, you go.。
Yeah, for me, it's like, it was a constant reminder of, in the Christian sense, this。
place is not my home.。
But then also like historically, knowing like, you know, the scars of racism in this country,。
it's like, you know, this country wasn't necessarily built for me or.。
And so it's, you know, it's like stuff like this happens.。
And it's like, there's a part of you that's like really shocked or like, you know, in。
tears about it, but then it's also like not surprised, like you almost get numb to it。
to some degree when it's like, you've been kind of living that way.。
But yeah, a lot of it is a lot of it is really complicated now, I think, with so much like。
I was saying to somebody like, we're at a time now where like, everybody's voice can。
be elevated.。
You know, social media has made this platform where now people can speak and share about。
injustices or things or issues that are happening.。
But what is created is like, yeah, everybody has maybe the equal opportunity to share or。
say things about something.。
But it's not necessarily equally valued or like equally worthy of listening to.。
And so it's like this, yeah, this hard part where like social media has done really well。
at like, making us like, more aware of these things.。
But it's like, at the same time, it's also made it kind of easier to almost ignore it。
if you want to.。
So it's yeah, so it's hard.。
It's a lot of different emotions.。
But what I find also just being an African American man is expressing emotion is very。
difficult anyway.。
Like it's one of those things that can, you know, that's kind of shunned within our own。
community.。
We have to be strong for our families, we have to be strong for, you know, our wives,。
our kids.。
But then strong for those who, you know, we don't know if they have ill intent toward。
us.。
You have to, you know, you can't really show weakness.。
And so that part is very hard because allowing, you know, stuff to build up, you know, in。
a lot of ways it can poison you if you don't have an outlet.。
And thankfully, you know, I found Jesus.。
And so like, I feel like even if I can't express an emotion around a bunch of people, I can。
always express it to God, you know, and know that He hears me, you know, that He finds。
my voice valuable.。
But I can't imagine, you know, my brothers who don't know Christ, you know, I mean, it's。
like torture in a lot of ways.。
And like just to piggyback off of what Wade was saying, the key word he said that really。
resonated with me was "no."。
So I mean, we've been through this so many times.。
I know it's been the times where it's like, I say, you know what, that's another killing.。
I'm like, it's like you said, we're so used to it.。
It's like we see it on social media and you just go pass it.。
But this one with George Floyd, I can say personally, this one hit me extra hard because。
a few months before, somebody, I just want to say I was, somebody called the police on。
me and they're like, once you experience it, it's like you can start putting your feet,。
putting yourself in their shoes.。
And it's like, wow.。
And you're going through, you're trying to fight off that numbness.。
You're fighting off anger, you're fighting off fear, you're scared.。
And you got all of these emotions you're trying to figure out, but still try to go to work.。
Yeah.。
And it's like, you're still trying to do a nine to five and still keep it professional.。
And it's like, it's hard because it's like, you want to grieve.。
Like you were saying before, like as black boys, we was told, like, you're not supposed。
to show your, your emotion.。
You're not supposed to cry.。
But it's like, what are you supposed to, like, how am I supposed to like share these emotions?。
How am I supposed to feel?。
So it's like, I'm learning how to share my emotions more, but at the same time, it's。
like, I don't want to show too much.。
Like, it's like a double edged sword.。
Like you show too much emotion, you're that angry black man.。
Or you're an angry black person.。
If you do show it on other sides, like, oh, you're too soft.。
And so it's like, we're struggling to figure out what the mean, like, what should we do。
to like show how we feel about everything.。
So it's the first part is always numb.。
It's like, when I remember the first day when George Floyd died, I looked at the video for。
like 10 seconds and I said, I don't want to look at this today.。
But then it kept on coming back up and I was like, okay, let me sit down and like watch。
this video.。
And then all the emotions started coming in.。
So it's like, you go through it every day, but it's like just to see it again and again,。
it's like it hurts.。
So, because you think it could have been me.。
Yeah.。
So.。
One of the things we've been talking about a lot of different things and responding.。
And one of the things we talked about was in Romans 12 and the verse that says that。
we're to weep or those who weep.。
And so that's one of the things we've been focusing on grieving because we know that。
that is this process.。
It's grief for the African American community.。
It's grief.。
It's mourning, it's weeping.。
And we've talked about how it's not just grief over this incident.。
Obviously, it's the whole history of injustice, particularly in our country.。
It's grief over that.。
Yeah.。
And one of the things that we've talked about in that is how believers and people in the。
church who are outside the African American community, how they can respond in a right。
and genuine way.。
We see obviously a lot of different responses in the world right now, but how can we do。
that well and do it genuinely and do it in a way that's truly supportive and loving.。
And so that's something I would love to hear you guys thoughts on how other believers can。
support you guys and your community and where you're going through.。
The first step, I will say, is to become a listener, to actually come and listen to someone。
share how they can help.。
Because we don't need people to come in to be a savior for us.。
That's having a problem now.。
But we need you to come in and listen and hear how people are feeling through this.。
And over the last few weeks, I've actually had people come to me and do that.。
And it's like, wow, like you actually want to sit down and listen and see, like, I know。
that we live in a broken world.。
I had one person actually come out and tell me that he said that I've been racist and。
it's because the way I've been raised and what can I do or how can I help?。
So even I had to even encourage him at that moment, like you saying this and acknowledging。
that you have sinned or this sin is still in your life.。
It's like you're ready to make a change.。
But also when you make this change, you have to be able to listen to someone else.。
So it's all you have to be able to humble yourself to listen to your brother and want。
to learn and actually, yeah, just shut up.。
That's the thing, just shut up when you're talking.。
Because sometimes what I've noticed, like people want to share and it's like you're。
still fighting on not listening.。
And it's like one challenge I did, like an exercise with somebody, like when you are。
the exercise is you, somebody say one thing and you have to start a hand, you have to。
start your sentence with that last letter of that last sentence.。
And they didn't understand why I was doing it.。
And then after a while, we kept on doing it and they noticed like, okay, like what was。
that for?。
And I was like, you had to listen to everything I said to see how you're going to start your。
thing.。
So you have to be able to sit and listen to everything the person is sharing, not just。
the one point you want to talk about, but they share a lot of points they want to talk。
about.。
So it's a learning process and it's going to be hard.。
That's the thing, it's going to be hard.。
It's not going to change overnight.。
Like you do it for one day, it's not going to be the same the second day.。
It might change with whoever you talk with.。
So it's the first two steps is acknowledging where you're wrong or where you're saying。
it is.。
And then the second part is being humble enough to sit down and listen to your brother, to。
your African American brothers, actually share how they feel about the situation.。
Yeah.。
That's awesome.。
Yeah, no, I think you guys are on the right track of what the Romans 12 of like grieving。
alongside your brothers.。
I think, yeah, if I would add anything to listening to be lamenting alongside.。
And really to go into what Eric's saying is like creating an environment of empathy and。
transparency where your African American friends do feel like they can express themselves without。
repercussions or feeling blindsided or like letting their guard down.。
I mean, honestly, that's one of the biggest things we need, a place to be who we are.。
And it's, yeah, we have to put on so many faces when we step out into the world.。
I was watching this one pastor talk about even like because of the Ahmaud Arbery thing,。
he was like, "In my mind, when I go outside, I've already played the mental game of what。
can I wear when I go on this run so that people know that's what I'm doing and there's no。
issue at all or there's no mistake that he's out there running, guys.。
He's not robbing anybody.。
He's not trying to do anything."。
And it made me remember like something I did or something I still do actually.。
And I never really associated with race necessarily.。
I just associated with, oh, it's just a common courtesy to do this.。
So when I go into a store, well, one, I never go into a store that I'm not willing to buy。
anything in.。
And so the next thing is if I go into a store and if I'm going to be in there longer than。
10 or 15 minutes, I have to buy something in there.。
So whether it's a soda, stick of gum, otherwise there's this attitude of like, "I don't want。
people to think I'm in here shoplifting.。
I want people to know I'm in this store just browsing, looking for something, didn't find。
it, but I'm not trying to get over on anybody."。
And it's, yeah, I don't know.。
Hearing that pastor made me think there's so many areas where the African-American has。
to do that and put on this face of like professionalism sometimes, or maybe you do have to be the。
angry black guy because you're in a situation that calls for that.。
But it's almost always a mask of who you are.。
It's never, you never, you honestly, unless you maybe go to counseling or have opportunities。
to talk with people that have been through the process and have given you opportunities。
and made that safe environment to express yourself.。
I know there's some African-American men that never had that chance, and it plays out in。
different ways, whether that's domestic abuse or heavy alcoholism, or it's gambling, all。
these other sins are really deep.。
But in a lot of ways, they're surfacy to what some of the issue is.。
It's just like, "I can't be a man.。
I can't be myself."。
And so, yeah, so lamenting is definitely one.。
And then trying to create, yeah, creating a space.。
And I think, yeah, the way you create that space is with empathy and transparency.。
People that are transparent, that is one of the most contagious things, I think, especially。
for believers.。
Every Bible study that I love going to is because men were honest and transparent about。
the real issues that we deal with as believers.。
So I think, yeah, I think those are good ways to do it.。
- That's good.。
One of the things that hit me as you guys were speaking about that is how some of those。
things you're describing are like basic gospel values, basic values that should be in the。
church, that Koinonia type of fellowship.。
And I think, I mean, that directs us to the hope of the gospel, obviously, but it also。
directs us to the failure of the church to nurture those things.。
It's sad that we haven't done a better job of building those spaces and building them。
for everybody.。
And that points an error of our own failing in the church, and that's really sad.。
So I'm also interested to hear from you guys as we go forward how believers, and again,。
especially believers who are outside the African-American community, can really continue to be involved。
and engaged and supportive.。
Because obviously there's a lot of attention right now, and there's a lot of response,。
and that's good.。
There's a lot of positive response, which is really good, but it's easy for those things。
to just be a moment and to just be kind of an event, and then they fade away.。
And in a few weeks or a few months, people forget about them and then go on.。
And then the realities don't change.。
And in the church, we want to continue, by God's grace, to be living out the gospel and。
seeking God's justice and doing those things.。
So I'm interested to hear from you guys what are some ways that people can continue to。
be involved and to respond.。
That's actually my biggest fear.。
That people...。
Oh, what?。
Like everybody's protesting.。
Yeah, what's next?。
And it's like, okay, what are you going to do next?。
Everybody's on the protest, but when a protesting dies down, like you said, what's your next。
move?。
I was just on a Bible study when we was talking about this.。
It starts with talking about community.。
What was that guy named?。
Bon Hopper.。
Oh, Dietrich Bon Hopper.。
Dietrich Bon Hopper.。
He was talking about...。
It was a quote saying, "If you have a dream for your community, you'll die, but if everybody。
else is in it, if you have a community, you'll thrive."。
So we were talking about community.。
You need to create that community of not just people that look like you, but people that。
doesn't look like you, with different races, different age groups, so you'll be able to。
grow and learn from that.。
And so I think they were college students.。
Best thing about college students, they're able to...。
There's different events on your campuses.。
Go to those different events and start able...。
I won't say put yourself out there, but take a chance to start talking to other people。
that doesn't look like you.。
You're going to fail at first.。
It's basically like that, because you're stepping out your comfort zone, you're coming into。
somebody's comfort zone.。
Everybody's uncomfortable, but after a while, they see that you're not doing it because。
of what's going on, and it's really coming from your heart.。
People can tell the difference.。
Once they see the difference, like, "Okay, I'm going to let down my guard just a little。
bit, but I'm going to still keep my distance.。
I'm going to still keep it up."。
But it's not a...。
Like I said before, it's not an overnight change.。
If you're serious about being the change, nobody said it's going to start overnight.。
It's long suffering.。
That means suffering long.。
But going through the changes, going through the hurt, and through the journey.。
I was talking to somebody last night, like, we always want to get to the end of the journey,。
but the whole experience and the journey is what creates you, or what makes who you are.。
So when you're working towards that, it's going to be hard.。
But I mean, if you walk with God and you faith, He's going to provide for you.。
But if it's just for hidden knowledge or pride, it's just going to die.。
It's not going to work.。
Like, it's a true heart change.。
So I hope I answered that question.。
I think you answered it well.。
Yeah, that's good.。
It made me think of something else that might be helpful is one of the big things, I think,。
in our country and why a lot of racism or just prejudice in general is able to continue。
like generally is because we love categories, right?。
We love grouping.。
You think about the news, right?。
They had the looters, the rioters, the peaceful protesters.。
It was all these different categories.。
And honestly, the African-American experience is pretty used to that.。
We are used to carrying the weight of our race all the time.。
And so one of the most helpful things is to treat each black friend you have as an individual.。
You know, like even me and Eric, we are very similar, but we're also really different,。
like distinct.。
And it made me think of this one training I went to, and it was like, "Which black are。
you?"。
And it's like, so even within black, there's categories.。
And this may be helpful for you, but there's the ABC.。
So the A black is assimilated.。
On the streets, we will call you a sellout.。
This is the person that is basically joined with the majority culture.。
Most of their friends are probably white.。
Most of the stuff they like is like pop culture type things.。
Then you have the B black, which is like bicultural.。
So this is the person that's pretty much able to walk in both worlds.。
They recognize that they're black and are able to be black around blacks, but they also。
are able to kind of turn on, "What does it mean when I'm around people that aren't black?"。
And then there's the C black, which is like contextualized or culturally black.。
So if you were like, "Oh, how do I spot this person out?"。
This is the person that has the Malcolm X shirt on.。
This is the person that is never going to probably come to a church that's mostly white.。
This is the person that's at all of the events that Eric was mentioning on college campus.。
If it's a black event, they're probably there.。
They probably have peace signs and things like that.。
And they are very aware of their race and are very active and vocal.。
And so one thing that could be helpful is discovering who are the ones around you, because。
all of us interact with these things differently on an individual basis, but even in those。
groups we interact differently.。
All this is general, so none of this obviously can stick on anybody.。
Let's just say, for example, with all the stuff that's been happening, the assimilated。
might, let's say all of us say the exact same phrase.。
We say, "Man, we watch the news and we say, 'This is messed up.'"。
I, by culture, say, "This is messed up."。
And assimilated blacks say, "This is messed up."。
And then let's just act like Eric is a C black culture.。
And he say, "This is messed up."。
Well, we all said the same phrase, but what did we mean when we said it?。
I say, "Man, this is messed up.。
I can't believe the media is showing all these people looting and rioting and stuff."。
And then the assimilated black says, "Wait, what do you mean?"。
"No, I'm talking about the way they're treating us police officers, blah, blah, blah."。
And then the culture black is like, "I just can't believe they didn't riot all these other。
places or do all these other places."。
Now, once again, that is general, but yeah, even within the black community, we're all。
coming at this from different angles, depending on how we were raised.。
And then what our connections is to our own race.。
Some of us, honestly, the bicultural, we have an identity crisis, to be honest.。
We can walk in both worlds, but we feel like we belong to neither.。
We're not black enough for the contextualized friends.。
We're not white enough for our assimilated friends.。
And each group probably feels some type of animosity toward others.。
It's an everyday struggle.。
It's a battle.。
It is.。
It's a battle.。
It is.。
I remember being at day camp and almost having to prove my blackness to somebody that came.。
They thought I lived in Beverly.。
It was something about that.。
They thought I listened to...。
I did listen to this Hillsong, but I was like...。
I mean, there's a lot of people that listen to Hillsong.。
I like Hillsong.。
They make good music.。
But it is funny.。
It is like this, "Oh, you have to prove, 'Oh, no, I'm black.。
I'm black.'"。
Or whatever.。
But one of the things Eric said that made me think when you said community that is missing。
in all of this is, yeah, we want to run to solutions.。
And a pastor was talking about this.。
He said, "Don't be so quick to run to a solution that you forget to run to relationships."。
He was like, "Because solutions can be a quick fix, and you forget about it."。
We get to 2030, and 2020 is 10 years past, and it's not on our mind anymore.。
He said, "At the core of it all, do you care about people?"。
And it just made me think people is the problem with all of this.。
If we're honest, you remove people, and there's none of these things.。
There's none of these issues.。
But you put people who are sinful, have a sinful condition in a situation with each。
other, and sin is bound to happen.。
And one of the things is not only people, but opportunities for power.。
And so power is this thing where it only means something when people are involved.。
You can't be powerful by yourself.。
One of my favorite conversations is when he's having his disciples, he's like, "In the world,。
these people in high leadership, they lord it over each other.。
They lord it over those that are lower than them."。
He said, "But that won't be the way with you."。
He's like, "Actually, you are going to go to the bottom."。
He's like, "Everybody is racing to this top, and lording it over each other."。
He's like, "You are going to race to the bottom."。
He says, "If you want to be great, you got to serve everybody."。
And what we see in this country, obviously the reversal of what Christ said, if you want。
to be great, this is who you have to step on, basically.。
And it's people who were created and made in the image of God.。
So yeah, I think the other thing too is to try to think what you would do if it was your。
people.。
That's one of the biggest things that has always gotten me.。
What if this was my brother that was killed?。
What if this happened to my sister?。
I think sometimes when you empathize in that way, you don't even need to ask a person what。
to do.。
You just do it.。
And that's when you learn that, yeah, we may be a different color, but we all want the。
same thing.。
Another helpful thing is to understand just because things may be equal doesn't mean they're。
necessarily equitable.。
That's another thing that I've been learning recently is things can be equal, but still。
inequitable.。
Let's say we're all looking over this fence and I'm short.。
I'm five, seven and a half.。
Sam is pretty tall, six, two, six, three.。
Eric might be a little shorter than me.。
So maybe there's two crates here.。
And the equal thing is if we all just had a crate, but I still can't see over the thing.。
But it's equal.。
We're all equal.。
It's like the equitable thing would be maybe Sam doesn't get a crate because he can see。
over the fence.。
Eric might get two crates and I get one crate.。
So a lot of it is thinking about it in that way too.。
Not just, "Oh, let's make it equal for everybody," because it's not necessarily the most helpful。
at times.。
Sometimes it's like, "No, this needs to be equitable."。
But it's a lot of really awesome hopeful things that I've seen, like Eric just in the past。
few weeks, that is very different from this situation than situations that we've been。
used to.。
It's a lot more people doing something.。
I feel like this is a very action-packed time to be a Christian because all eyes are on。
you right now.。
What will you do?。
What will you say?。
Because people are going to remember it.。
That's beautiful, guys.。
I appreciate you sharing your hearts.。
I know that's not easy a lot of times.。
Everyone can be honest about anything in our lives, but especially about things like this。
that are really part of the core of who you are.。
So I just want to thank you guys for that.。
I really appreciate you guys.。
I'm honored by your friendship.。
I appreciate what both of you had to say about relationship.。
I know that's been a big part of, for me, understanding more of God's heart and the。
gospel and what it means in relationship to all the peoples of the world.。
It's having relationships with different people, and that's been really important.。
I'm just always amazed at Jesus' love for us and the fact that, like you were saying,。
it comes back to people.。
That's what Jesus cares about.。
He cares about hearts and lives, and that's what's important to Him.。
He's not really in any way attached to our politics or to our philosophies or our ideas.。
He cares about hearts and lives, and that's a part, something we can't and should not。
miss in the church.。
I hope you enjoyed the conversation that we had today, and I just want to thank Wade and。
Eric again for coming and having that conversation with us and opening their hearts and being。
so honest and giving us the perspective of their life experience.。
That's so good for us, and I hope it was encouraging to you.。
I hope it was thought-provoking.。
I hope it helped you to see some things that maybe you hadn't seen before.。
I really am grateful to both of them for sitting down and doing that with us.。
I really appreciate both of them.。
As I said at the beginning, I'm honored by their friendship.。
They're men who love Jesus and who are giving their lives to serve in Jesus and to serve。
in His church.。
They're also great friends of mine.。
That was actually the noises that you could hear in the video.。
That was the Z's making a lot of noise because Wade and his wife have young children, and。
they're great friends with Jessmyn and I's kids.。
Our kids were playing together and having a great time, and so the Z's were making a。
lot of noise.。
You could hear that on the video.。
But I want to point us to this heart of unity that Jesus has for His church as we close。
it out today.。
I want us to consider that.。
Unity is hard work in the church.。
It's always been hard work, but it's something that Jesus wants for us, and it's something。
that is available for us if we're willing to pursue it.。
Pursuing it means sitting down with people who have different experiences than us, who。
have different perspectives than us, and listening, and really listening and hearing, not just。
being in the same room while they're talking, but actually really listening and hearing。
their heart, and practicing some empathy and saying, "I want to try as much as possible。
to think about what life might look like from that perspective, and to understand what my。
brother or my sister has gone through and what that feels like for them."。
To allow that to happen, even if it's difficult, even if it's uncomfortable, even if it reveals。
something about my own heart that I don't really want to see, we need to do that.。
We need to do that in order to pursue unity.。
We need to allow ourselves to lay down some of our own preferences and some of the things。
that we enjoy and some of the things that we're familiar with in order to understand。
or to accommodate the feelings or the preferences or the familiarity of a brother or sister。
in Christ.。
That's one of the things that we have to do to work towards unity in the church, to。
pursue unity.。
It's not easy, but God can do that work in us and through us.。
We talked last week about how God in these moments wants to do the hard work of heart。
change in our lives, and that's one of the hard things that God wants to do right now.。
One of the works of heart change that He wants to do in our lives is helping us to understand。
one another, helping us to hold more loosely to some of our preferences and to some of。
the ways that we're used to doing things and to some of our cultural affinities and be。
willing to take on more of God's kingdom cultural affinities.。
That's really important for us to remember.。
If we are living according to the values of the kingdom, if we're living according to。
the values of heaven, then all of us are going to be a little bit uncomfortable, no matter。
what cultural background or what our life experience is.。
God's going to ask all of us to lay some things down in order to love one another well, and。
that's what we need to be seeking and pursuing in this moment in the church as we continue。
to respond in all the ways we've been talking about over the past few weeks.。
We want to pursue unity, and that comes through really caring for one another, really hearing。
one another, really loving each other well, and choosing to give up some of those things。
that maybe are important to us in order to love someone else well.。
I'm going to close out just by reading a few verses from John 17.。
This is a prayer that Jesus prayed for the church.。
I'm going to start in verse 20.。
This is John chapter 17, verse 20.。
I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their。
word that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they。
also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me.。
The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one, even as we。
are one, I in them, and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world。
may know that you sent me and loved them, even as you loved me.。
That's a beautiful, powerful passage.。
It's a prayer that Jesus was praying for us, for the church.。
And in that prayer, Jesus tied the manifestation of God's glory to our unity.。
He tied those things together, that God's glory and God's power would be revealed in。
people from all different backgrounds being unified in the church.。
And he tied our testimony in the church to our unity, that the world around us, people。
who are outside the church who don't know Jesus, would know the supernatural power of。
the gospel and the reality of Jesus because of the unity in the church.。
So it's really important for us to walk in it and to live it out.。
It's really important for us to seek it and pursue it in moments like this, even though。
it might be challenging, even though it might feel difficult or frightening to us, or we。
don't understand, or we say, "Hey, what does that mean for me?。
What do I have to lay down?"。
We need to pursue and seek after and hunger for unity and for love for one another.。
Let's pray.。
God, I do pray that your church would be one.。
I pray that we would listen to one another, that we would love one another well.。
I pray that you would do the hard work of heart change in our hearts and in our lives。
to help us to really care for one another and to help us to be unified in pursuing the。
values of the kingdom, to be unified in pursuing the heart change in our own lives, but then。
the transformation of our families, our neighborhoods, our communities, our cities, and even our。
nations that comes as we respond to the work of Jesus in our heart, as we respond to the。
healing that only He can bring to our hearts.。
God, I pray that it would happen.。
I pray that we would be healed and that we would love one another and that we would be。
one.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
