It is great to be here, to be with you guys, and I want to thank all of you last week for。
covering the operation here and we can continue to worship God.。
And thank God for a safe journey to serve the churches in Toronto.。
And I want to thank the team of people that came with me and they took care of a lot of。
things for me, setting up the booth for the Bible conference and that includes Andrea。
and Sam and Brenda and Amanda.。
So they came with me and took care of a lot of stuff.。
Originally I thought I could take care of it by myself but actually they helped me a。
lot.。
So it was a blessing to be able to serve other churches and other Christians in other areas.。
But again we come back and we have a very interesting development in the presidential。
election and everyone has their attention on this.。
And now that it doesn't settle, we have the President-elect Donald Trump.。
He's going to be in the White House in the next term.。
And it was a big question when I was in Canada.。
Everyone is asking me, "Hey, who's going to be elected?"。
And it's like I can foretell the future.。
But there's a lot of discussions about who's going to be in the White House.。
But in any case, every four years we have this change of who is in power and which political。
party and political figures are going to be in the White House.。
That's why we have this mini-series I want to inject into our thinking and our reflection。
on the Bible.。
This series is called "Who is Your Lord?"。
And the Pagan Kings in the Bible.。
And I would like to take some of the samples from the Bible, especially from the Old Testament.。
As you can see from the biblical history, from the pages of the Bible, you have a lot。
of different kings and kingdoms and empires rise and fall in the entire biblical history.。
All the way from the left you get the Roman Empire, and then Greek, and then Hittite,。
and Assyrian Empire, Babylonian Empire, Persian Empire, and down in the south is the Egyptian。
Empire.。
And then in the middle of it, that is the center of the ancient world, the land bridge,。
the land of Israel and Palestine, you got different small kingdoms.。
The Arameans and the Philistines, and of course Israel and Judah right in the middle, in the。
shadow of all the empires.。
As you can tell from this map, and you can get the sense from the Bible, that kingdoms。
rise and fall, empires rise and fall, and kings do rise and fall.。
Because God is the Lord of history.。
So we want to do this.。
We want to go through some of the kings, secular kings, pagan kings in the Bible and see what。
the Bible has to say.。
So this is our procedure.。
Our procedure is first introduce the pagan king found in the Bible, recorded in the Bible,。
or even named in the Bible, and get their secular profile, you know, like documents。
outside of the Bible, what do they say about this and that pagan king, and then we go back。
to the Bible and see what we can reflect upon.。
So this is our procedure.。
We first get the secular profile of the pagan king in this series, and then we go into the。
Bible.。
And the first one I want to choose is, you see the picture there?。
Cyrus the Great.。
So ring any bell?。
You know, this king is named in the Bible, in the book of Isaiah, even before he existed.。
So Cyrus the Great.。
This timeline, let me go through this timeline for you.。
You see the purple center spectrum?。
All the way from the left to right is 700 BC, before Christ, 700 years before Christ,。
all the way to 500 BC.。
So this period of history, there were a lot happening, as you can tell.。
Let's go through one by one.。
First of all, it's the red one on top.。
You see that?。
What is that kingdom called?。
What is that empire called?。
Assyrian, right?。
From 911 BC to 605 BC, and then it declined.。
And what happened here during the Assyrian Empire was that the fall of the northern Israel。
kingdom Samaria, the fall of Samaria in 722.。
So Assyrians, they attacked the land of Israel and they defeated the northern kingdom Israel。
and the capital Samaria fell in 722 BCE.。
And all the way down to go south to the southern kingdom, Judah, it was year 701 BC.。
And that was when Hezekiah was reigning in Judah.。
And the Assyrians blocked all the exits and entrances to the capital Jerusalem, and they。
lay siege of the capital, but they failed and they returned.。
So that was 701 BC.。
So as I said, Assyrian Empire rise and fall.。
At the end of 7th century, about 600 something, it begins to weaken.。
And then there were two other superpowers in the Middle East that rise up.。
The first one is the blue one, the Median Kingdom, the Median Empire.。
And then south of the Median Empire is the Babylonian Empire.。
And what happened here is that Babylonians continued to attack and continue to expand。
and they came all the way to the southern small kingdom of Judah and they defeated Judah。
and fall of Jerusalem happened in 586 BC.。
That's when Assyrians fell and then Babylonians took over the entire world, almost the entire。
world of the Middle East.。
And then the Median Kingdom, there was something interesting happened.。
It fell to the Persian Empire.。
Now what happened to the Persian Empire when it rises was that it's because of Cyrus the。
Great.。
Cyrus the Great was a military leader of the Persian people and they rebelled against the。
Medes because they have been serving the Median Empire, the overlord for so many years and。
they are fed up.。
So they rebelled against it and Cyrus the Great let his people defeated the Medes.。
Well, first of all, they rebelled against the Medes in 553 and then within three years。
they actually defeat the entire empire of Median Kingdom and they swallow up the entire。
Middle East.。
So 539, that is a very important year in the biblical history.。
539 BC is Cyrus enters the capital of Babylonian Empire, the city of Babylon, the greatest。
city at that time.。
So he entered there peacefully and took over the entire world.。
And 539 is also important for the Jews because as you can tell from 586, the Jews were exiled。
to Babylon for about 70 years and then 539 when Persian Empire took over the world, they。
reversed the policy of the previous kingdom.。
They don't keep the people, they don't exile the people, they send the people back and。
send their temple vessels back to their homeland and Jews were one of them that got the benefit.。
So that's when we have the book of Ezra and Nehemiah when they return from Babylon to。
Jerusalem and we build a temple and we build the city.。
So that is what happened for Cyrus the Great.。
Now I want your attention to the last 10 years of the Babylonian Empire which is 555 to 539.。
That is the last 10 or so years at the end of Babylonian Empire.。
What happened here was that there were two kings, father and son, Nebunidas and Belshazzar.。
Father and son taking care of the last period of the Babylonian Empire.。
And what happened was that Nebunidas was a very funny king and he didn't worship the。
main god, the biggest god in Babylon, the biggest god being Marduk.。
And he forsake Marduk and he worship the other god of his own family which is the moon god。
called Sin.。
So that made a lot of people in Babylon, especially the capital, not very happy.。
There were a lot of social tension and a lot of discontent in the society of Babylon.。
Like us, some people are being fed up by what is going on in the society and what is going。
on in our nation.。
So they wanted to turn around, they wanted to have someone else in power.。
So that is what happened in Babylon in the last 10 years.。
Now what happened was that sin is being elevated by Nebunidas.。
As you can tell from this stele, from this relief, that is the king Nebunidas on the。
right and he is having a staff in his left hand and he is raising his right hand, worshipping。
the three gods.。
You see the moon god, you see the moon right?。
And then you see the sun and then also the third symbol is Venus.。
So he is worshipping the moon and the sun and the stars instead of worshipping the guy。
on the left which is Marduk or Merodoth mentioned in the book of Jeremiah.。
Now there was tons of huge discontent among the Babylonians.。
If you take the poll in the last 10 years of the Babylonian empire, the last 10 years,。
you will get the sense it is very low opinion for Nebunidas and his son Belshazzar who is。
also mentioned in the book of Daniel.。
And there was a political vacuum in the last 10 years of the Babylonian empire.。
And Cyrus took this opportunity to invade Babylon.。
Now you need to understand the ancient context when the king is privileging one god over。
the other, privileging sin over Marduk is a huge thing in the ancient world.。
In Babylon there is a yearly annual festival called Akitv.。
Every spring around March to April they celebrate because that is when they harvest the wheat。
and barley and it is a huge festival and the king has to be there to host the festival。
and they will take Marduk the idol out of Marduk's temple and put it on a cart and。
then they will do a procession in the capital and it was a huge celebration and it would。
determine the destinies of everything for the next year.。
So Nebunidas did not do that and that made a lot of people upset.。
So Cyrus took this opportunity and he would battle against his overlord the Medes and。
then a significant number of military people from the Median empire actually switched sides。
to help Cyrus to help him to defeat the Median kingdom and also the Babylonian kingdom and。
finally in 539 BC they defeated the biggest superpower in the world Babylonia.。
As you can see all these arrows 553 he would battle against the Medes and then 550 within。
3 years he defeated the entire northern Median kingdom and then all the way he invaded to。
the left to Lydia defeated the Lydia kingdom and then come back and defeated Elam and 539。
as I told you is a very important year in biblical history and world history is that。
Cyrus entered the capital of Babylonian empire Babylon.。
And we can find some documents outside of the bible that talks about Cyrus the great。
and one of the documents is called Cyrus the Cylinder and this round thing has a lot of。
inscriptions on it and if you translate it or take an excerpt out of it it talks about。
Cyrus what he did to Babylon.。
He said I am Cyrus king of the world king of four corners I enter Babylon in peace and。
Marduk I daily attend to his worship because Marduk exalted me and have all the kings kiss。
my feet and I return the images of the gods and I gather all their peoples and return。
them to their dwellings.。
Remember the Jewish people were one of the groups being returned.。
Now from this excerpt who is Cyrus?。
Is he a worshipper of Yahweh the true God?。
No he worshiped the false gods.。
He worshiped Marduk in fact as a Persian he not only worshipped Marduk the Babylonian。
god he worshipped his Persian god the great god of the Persian religion is called Ahura。
Masta that was a Persian great god if you drive a master car you know what that means。
master in Persian means wisdom.。
So he is actually a polytheistic person and he worshipped different gods and as you can。
tell from the context Cyrus was a pragmatic politician he took the advantage of Babylonian。
vacuum political vacuum and he invaded Babylonian empire.。
Now he let the captives free he let some of the Jewish people go back to Jerusalem not。
because he is kind or not because he is compassionate.。
Is that he is pragmatic he wanted to reverse the policy from Babylonian empire and let。
these people go as long as they don't rebel against him and he will consolidate his power.。
So as you can tell he is a polytheistic worshipper he worshipped false gods and he is also a。
pragmatic politician much like today all politicians are pragmatic and you have to be pragmatic.。
Now with that context we can go to the Bible.。
What does the Bible say about Cyrus the great?。
We find his name being mentioned in Isaiah 44 and 45.。
Let me read this passage to you.。
And remember Isaiah has two parts the first part is chapter 1 to 39 that is what we call。
first Isaiah and then chapter 40 all the way to the end sometimes we call it second Isaiah。
the second part of Isaiah.。
The second part of Isaiah from 40 to all the way to 66 is a prophecy bunch of prophecies。
talking to the Jewish captives in Babylon and how God will have compassion on them and。
to lead them to return to give them hope.。
That is what Isaiah 40 all the way to 66 is giving them hope and telling them Yahweh。
the true God will be faithful to them even though they have sinned against him and he。
will forgive their sin and he will lead his people back to their homeland.。
So that is the context of 44 chapter 44.。
So God is telling his people Israel he said remember this things O Jacob for you are my。
servant O Israel I have made you you are my servant O Israel I will not forget you return。
to me for I have redeemed you.。
And God is the one who sets off Cyrus Cyrus the great the politician he is my shepherd。
and will accomplish all that I please.。
He will say of Jerusalem let it be rebuilt and to the temple let its foundation be laid。
and this passage continues to tell us something more about Cyrus in the sight of God.。
God said what this is what the Lord Yahweh says to his anointed to Cyrus whose right。
hand I take hold of to subdue nations before him and to strip kings of their armor and。
open doors before him the doors of the empire doors of other people and nations including。
Babylon so that gates will not be shut will be open to Cyrus the great.。
Now what is amazing what is interesting here is that not only Cyrus name is being called。
out before he exists remember Isaiah prophesied this 100 years before Cyrus existed not only。
his name is being mentioned here but also he is being called his anointed his anointed.。
That's interesting because a pagan king is being called the anointed.。
That is pretty remarkable.。
Now you go back to the timeline you see Isaiah there 740-700 that's when Isaiah was a prophet。
and he was serving the sovereign kingdom Judah in the midst of the crisis from Assyrian empire.。
So before Cyrus existed in Isaiah his name was mentioned and not only his name was mentioned。
he was being called God's anointed.。
Now immediately we thought ok anointed the Messiah so often we have this Jesus figure。
in our head right whenever Messiah is being mentioned in our songs or in the Bible so。
often we say ok he is the Messiah the capital M Messiah the savior of the world Jesus Christ。
himself there is only one Messiah.。
So we always have this sacred notion to the word Messiah but again you need to understand。
these kind of sacred notion got picked up later in biblical history in the new testament。
but in the old testament whenever the word anointed or Messiah is being used it does。
not necessarily mean that someone is sacred or someone is pleasing to God.。
In fact so often someone who is being anointed is not pleasing to God.。
For example in 1 Samuel 10 verse 1 it speaks of the first king of Israel King Saul remember。
that guy King Saul and after King Saul is David right.。
King Saul is being said to be anointed the prophet Samuel took a flask of oil and poured。
it on the head of Saul and kissed him and said has not the Lord Yahweh anointed you。
leader over his inheritance his people.。
So Saul is being mentioned or being referred to as the Messiah same word anointed.。
Now as you can remember was King Saul a king pleasing to God?。
No right he was actually rebellious to the kingship of God and that's why God raised。
up another king David to replace him.。
However Saul is being called the anointed.。
So as I said anointed does not mean that he is sacred and this is the same way for the。
pagan kings in the bible especially Cyrus the great.。
Even Cyrus the great was being named and is being called the anointed of Yahweh does not。
mean he is a true believer of Yahweh.。
In fact he is pagan as we can tell from other documents outside of the bible.。
You know in the bible the pagan king is used by God for God's glory.。
The pagan king is never put on a pedestal.。
He never gets the glory.。
God gets the glory.。
Whoever is in the white house, whoever is in power, whoever is serving the term in our。
world in the ancient world.。
God gets the glory because God is in charge.。
Isaiah 45 actually says this, it says the whole point of raising up Cyrus as the anointed。
one is to gain glory for himself.。
God says this.。
God gets the glory because he controls every move of the political figures and the kings。
and kingdoms and empires on earth.。
Isaiah 45 verse 5 it says I am the Lord Yahweh and there is no other apart from me there。
is no God.。
I form the light and create darkness.。
I bring prosperity and create disaster.。
I the Lord Yahweh do all these things.。
You can see from the translation here I give you in parenthesis the Hebrew words.。
Yasa being translated form, Bara often times being translated create and then Asab translated。
bringing or doing.。
Now these kind of words, these words are often used in Genesis 1.。
Now immediately we have some theological questions here.。
We ask the question of the problem of evil.。
How can God create darkness and disaster?。
Is he the origin or the author of evil?。
Is God the author of evil?。
No, no of course not.。
But we are troubled with these words because we as modern readers we always try to understand。
these words from a materialistic point of view.。
Like God in Genesis 1 created everything we just thought ok it has to be God creating。
something out of nothing.。
It's a material process, it's a material creation manufacturing process that we have in mind.。
But in the ancient world that is not what they meant.。
In the ancient world in Genesis 1 and in Isaiah 45 when they used these words they are not。
talking about material or creating something out of nothing.。
It's not talking about God creating disasters out of nothing.。
Calamity out of nothing.。
There is an evil out of nothing.。
It's not talking about that.。
These kind of words are talking about management.。
Talking about God is in control of everything.。
Good things and even bad things is still under the control in the hands of God.。
So God has good and evil in his hands.。
Never have anything that happened in our lives or in our world that would be outside of God's。
control.。
That's what they meant.。
That's what these Hebrew words are trying to mean.。
So God would allow evil to happen.。
Or even a pagan king like Cyrus the Great to control the world.。
That does not mean they are out of God's hands.。
God has everything, the good and the evil in his control.。
Just like today when your boss tells you, can you create a department or a team to take。
care of this task?。
You heard the word create.。
You would not think, ok, how can I create a team of people out of nothing?。
Because he is not talking about manufacturing material process.。
He is talking about management.。
You create a team, it means you have a team in charge to perform a task being assigned。
to you.。
It is the same way in the biblical words.。
Here it talks about reorganization.。
It talks about management.。
Do you play chess?。
Anyone here?。
Anyone who is good at playing chess?。
I am very bad.。
I am very bad.。
I am very bad.。
But if you play chess, if you observe the game of a great chess player and watch how。
he makes every move and defeats his opponent, sometimes the move he makes, I don't understand.。
Sometimes the moves that he makes or the strategies that he has in mind, I cannot comprehend.。
Until at the end of the game, that I saw something amazing happen.。
So the great chess player sometimes makes a move that is beyond my comprehension, where。
he plays up a pagan king.。
That is beyond my understanding.。
That is beyond my so-called plan.。
But at the end of the game, you will see the wisdom of the great chess player.。
And at the end of the game, if you go to the game board, you would not praise the chess。
pieces.。
You would not pick up the chess pieces and say, "Wow, those pieces are very amazing.。
They can do amazing moves, unpredictable moves, and finally they win the game."。
You would not praise the chess pieces.。
The glory and victory go to the chess player.。
The one who is in control.。
The one who controls everything and every piece, every move on the game board.。
It is the same way Isaiah is talking about.。
He is saying that God's people need to know that we need to acknowledge the sovereignty。
of the one true king, Yahweh, Jesus Christ our Lord.。
And our allegiance and our faithfulness is always on the only one true God.。
The God of history.。
The God of our nation.。
The God that is to be worshipped.。
Whether the pagan king in the White House or the pagan king in power, whether he will。
implement policies that would seem favorable to us or not, there is only one true God and。
one true king.。
And he is in heaven.。
Isaiah 49 says, "God says, 'It is too small a thing for you to be my servant to restore。
the tribes of Jacob and bring back those of Israel I have kept.。
I will also not only return the people to their land and their exile, but I will also。
do one thing more amazing.。
Is that I will make you the people of God a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring。
my salvation to the ends of the earth.'"。
You see what is going on here.。
There is only one God, one true king in the universe.。
And he is above all political powers.。
Kingdoms rise and fall.。
However there is only one God who is eternally ruling, reigning over all of us.。
In our nation, in your personal life.。
And not only that, God says, "I will do something more.。
I will raise you up.。
I want to raise you up to be the light for the Gentiles, for the nations.。
And with you, you can bring salvation, the gospel to the ends of the earth."。
What a timely word and what timely reminder that we have.。
Because the Christian public witness in our nation is at all time low.。
People look at us.。
People go to church.。
People profess the name of Jesus Christ.。
They look at us like you guys are hypocrites.。
You belong to the religious establishment.。
It's a timely word for us.。
And the Christian public witness is at all time low.。
Especially in our nation.。
And sometimes it's tempting for us to put too much faith on human kings.。
I remember I was in seminary class and I heard the professor talking about Cyrus, Isaiah。
44 and 45.。
And he's trying to spin the story that Cyrus the Great was probably converted to be a believer,。
to be a believer of Yahweh.。
That's why he was favorable to the Jewish people and let them return.。
Now that was in the old days when we didn't have much extra biblical document.。
As you can tell from the documents that we read, Cyrus sitting there and all that, Cyrus。
remained a pagan king.。
There was not a shred of evidence that he was converted.。
However, this is our fantasy.。
We want someone in power to be converted to be a Christian.。
And we all want the kings to become like us, Christians or evangelicals.。
How nice, right?。
Of course we want that, we want to pray for that.。
We want those who are in charge and those who are with the political power, we want。
them to acknowledge the name of Jesus.。
Or sometimes we want or we wish a superstar, a celebrity would become a Christian and she。
or he will bear witness to the world how great Jesus is.。
And how nice is that?。
However, Isaiah reminds us, we cannot outsource the public witness to other people.。
We cannot outsource the public witness to those in power or in the entertainment business。
or some celebrities.。
We cannot outsource this.。
Isaiah is talking about to every single person of the people of God.。
You are my witness and God wants to make you the light for the Gentiles, for the nations.。
God wants to raise you up.。
You see, no matter which political party is in charge, no matter what policies they implement,。
whether it would be favorable to us or non-favorable to us, that is not the key.。
The key is that we respond to the calling of God to be the light for the nations.。
And we ask that the church will raise us up.。
We will stand up to be the true church.。
Think about the last past two decades.。
Two decades or so.。
There are so many mega churches that fail, crumble.。
I don't have to give you examples.。
I was in Toronto for the weekend and a lot of Canadian Christians told me what happened。
in the city of Toronto.。
In the metropolitan area, there are also many mega churches or mega pastors figures who。
fail because of scandals.。
You see what's going on?。
We fail.。
It's not because the political order is in our favor.。
It really doesn't matter.。
We fail from within.。
It's not because the political order is favorable to us to question weakness or not.。
It is us that we need to be the light to the nations.。
And we bear the name of God.。
And we want to bear a positive witness to the world.。
A couple of weeks ago, we had a small group gathering for the husbands.。
For some of the husbands, we share our stories and our worries for our family, especially。
for the young kids.。
Growing up in a liberal environment and they got their value confused.。
And there are so many cultural wars out there.。
And we exchange a lot of stories about our worries about what is going on in the schools,。
what is going on in the curriculum.。
And we worry about that.。
But I was talking to the husbands, I said, "You know what, whatever, however the political。
order is favorable to us, there is a front line we cannot give up.。
And it is our own home.。
Our own family.。
How can we live out the gospel, the beauty of truth, the beauty of truth, to let our。
kids and let our next generation to know that the truth is beautiful.。
You know, the next generation is tired of us telling them what is right and what is。
wrong.。
Of course there is truth and falsehood we have to discern.。
That is important.。
But the most important thing is that we as the people of God, we can show and demonstrate。
the beauty of truth.。
The beauty of marriage.。
The beauty of manhood and womanhood.。
The beauty of Christian life.。
That we live out the gospel.。
And that is what the world is dying for.。
They want to see the people of God being raised up to be the light for the Gentiles.。
And today Isaiah gives us this reminder and this calling.。
You go back to your role and your responsibility.。
Go back to your home to deal with your children.。
To handle relationships in your home.。
To handle relationships and ethics in your workplace.。
In the society.。
How can we speak with the gospel.。
Speak with compassion.。
Speak with peace.。
So that people can see the beauty of the gospel.。
Can we do that?。
Can we do that?。
Can we pray at least?。
Toward that direction.。
God help us.。
It's not about voting whoever is in the White House.。
Of course if it's favorable, praise God.。
But the front line that we all are on, we cannot give up.。
We are in the trenches to be the light for the Gentiles.。
To bring salvation to the ends of the earth.。
And that is you and me.。
That is all the churches, all the ordinary Christians we can do and we can pray for.。
Can we close in words of prayer?。
And just pray and come back to God and say God call us.。
And Father you do want to call us to be the light for the Gentiles, for the nations.。
And we come before you, we ask that you will forgive us.。
You forgive us sometimes we pay so much attention to okay who is in power but of course this。
is our public witness.。
This is what we can do for the coming grace for the society.。
However, what is most important is that you are in charge and you are calling us.。
Each and every one of us to be faithful people.。
To preach the gospel.。
To share the good news.。
In our conversation and in our interaction with other people that we can show them the。
beauty, the goodness of the gospel.。
So help us and forgive us.。
And please use us.。
And this is our prayer as your people.。
Humble us so that we worship you alone.。
Humble us so that we can display and demonstrate your goodness, your beauty.。
And may your name be glorified.。
This is our little prayers and you send us out this week.。
Go back to school, go back to our home, go back to our workplaces.。
Any place you send us and help us to bring the truth and the beauty of truth.。
And use us to show your glory in Christ in prayer.。
Well thank you very much for worshipping with us.。
And this series will continue next week and I hope to see you next week and we'll continue。
with Flat On.。
God's psalm over the nations, over us.。
So we have some refreshments out there and please stay for a little bit time of fellowship。
and get to know one another, to support one another.。
God bless you the rest of the week and see you next week.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
