Well, today we have our guest speaker, our youth minister,。
Sammy, to give us the word.。
We want to welcome her.。
All right.。
OK.。
That was such a sweet. Nathan, wow.。
Yeah. What a crew.。
I was blessed by that.。
So last time I was here preaching at Urban Voice,。
I talked about how Jesus says I am the bread of life.。
And I mentioned how there are seven I am statements in the book of John.。
And I'm going to continue on that train today.。
And I want to talk to us today about how Jesus calls himself。
the good shepherd later in John.。
I'm really excited to be with you all today.。
I've been thinking a lot about how in the book of Haggai,。
which is this really small。
prophetic book in the Old Testament,。
God asked the prophet Haggai and the people of God。
at the time to consider their ways together.。
I've been reflecting on what a privilege it is to be here in this community。
with each one of you。
to consider our ways under the authority of God's word together.。
So I'm really thrilled to be here with you.。
And I've also been thinking a lot about why it's important。
to talk about who God says he is.。
It can be said that all sin in our lives is rooted in a lie。
that either God is not who he says he is or we are not who he says we are.。
Scripture says that our hearts are deceitful.。
Above all else, they lie to us. They suppress the truth.。
And so when we spend time meditating on who God says he is,。
we can destroy those lies in our hearts that distort our view。
of who God is. And we can only really do that by spending time in his word.。
That's our safeguard for our deceitful hearts.。
Yeah, so I am going to take some time to pray for us this morning。
before we jump in to talking about Jesus as our good shepherd.。
Heavenly Father, you are so good to us.。
You are mighty in all of your ways.。
It's with your rod and your staff that you lead and guide us。
to life and life in you that is abundant and eternal.。
Would you help us today。
to hear truth from your word that is bigger and greater than the lies。
that our hearts can tell us about who you are and how that you see us,。
your sheep, your people.。
We are so thankful we belong to you, and we ask that your word be mighty。
in our hearts today, that it would speak to us, that it would convict us。
of what it means to belong to you and to worship you.。
It's in your name, I pray.。
Jesus, the good shepherd. Amen.。
So two summers ago, I was working for a place。
that a lot of you are familiar with.。
It's called UCA, and my husband and I were trying.。
We had this really fun idea, along with the rest of the organization,。
to take 30 middle school students on the train to play mini golf.。
Just the two of us. Super fun.。
And to corral 30 students who aren't really familiar with the CTA。
and to get them downtown to Millennial Millennium Park。
on the hottest day of the summer was quite an adventure.。
Not only did we have to kind of like shield the children。
from the interesting people on the train, but also we had to pass around。
all these water bottles.。
We were basically throwing water at all these middle schoolers.。
And I think the only reason we made it, as I reflect on that experience,。
is because my husband is so tall.。
And so he stood out among the crowd of people.。
And I remember vividly just shouting, "Look for Mr. Brock!"。
And so when I think about a shepherd experience, I want you to consider。
that's one example of leading sheep.。
But Jesus is a much more competent and capable shepherd。
than this example of just someone being tall leading a crowd of kids.。
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to start by reading our passage today.。
I've actually chose two passages again, because I think it's so rich。
how the Old and New Testament both reflect。
who Jesus says he is in the New Testament.。
So and I keep finding that these I am statements。
have parallel texts in the Old Testament, which is so cool.。
So today I'm going to read our passage over us,。
and I want you to listen and hear Jesus's deep love for you,。
his sheep, in each of these scriptures.。
OK, so I'm going to start with John 10, 10 through 18.。
And if you want to get there in your Bible, you can also keep a thumb in Psalm 23.。
So John 10, 10.。
The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy.。
But I have come that they may have life and have it to the full.。
I am the good shepherd.。
The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.。
The hired hand is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep.。
So when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and he runs away.。
Then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters it.。
The man runs away because he's a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep.。
But I am the good shepherd.。
I know my sheep and my sheep know me.。
And just as the father knows me and I know the father,。
I lay down my life for the sheep.。
I have other sheep that are not of the sheep pen, and I must bring them in also.。
They too will listen to my voice and there shall be one flock and one shepherd.。
The reason my father loves me is that I lay down my life only to take it up again.。
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord.。
I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again.。
This command I received from my father.。
And then moving on to Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd.。
I lack nothing.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures and he leads me beside quiet waters.。
He refreshes my soul.。
He guides me along the right paths for his name's sake.。
And even though I walk through the darkest valley, I won't fear any evil。
for you are with me and your rod and your staff, they comfort me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.。
You anoint my head with oil and my cup overflows.。
Surely, surely your goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life。
and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.。
This is the word of the Lord.。
Wow, I just even just need to take a moment because those promises are for us.。
That is insane.。
That is how the good shepherd sees his sheep.。
And we're going to talk about three truths that we can glean。
from these scriptures that help us to know more of who God is。
and how he sees us.。
The first section today that I want to talk about。
is the good shepherd leads us toward abundant life.。
The good shepherd leads us toward abundant life.。
And zeroing in on those first couple of verses here, John 10, 10,。
the thief comes only to steal, kill and destroy.。
But I have come so that you may have life and have it in abundance or to the full.。
And then the first couple of verses of Psalm 23,。
the Lord is my shepherd, I lack nothing.。
Or other translations say no good thing.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures.。
He leads me beside still waters.。
He refreshes my soul and he leads me in paths of righteousness。
for his name's sake.。
The good shepherd leads us toward abundant life.。
So taking a look at this first verse,。
Jesus says that he is all about abundant life.。
In the first few verses of Psalms, just to repeat again,。
it says that the shepherd leads by green pastures and quiet waters.。
When you hear these terms, what kind of feelings does that evoke for you?。
What pictures in this life?。
OK, maybe in the city we don't have that many still waters or green pastures,。
but what what is that。
abundance look like?。
What do you think of when you consider what abundance。
in a person's life really means?。
And a deeper question, does following Jesus。
seem like it holds abundance for you?。
Jesus, as the good shepherd, promises that he leads us。
toward abundant life and not away from it.。
And this might feel really contradictory for some of us。
when we weigh the cost of following Jesus.。
It can be so easy to think about how following Jesus is very, very difficult.。
And let's be real, it can be and it is, especially in our society and culture.。
This isn't unique to just us here in this church or in this time.。
But Paul, the apostle, if you think about him in the book of Acts,。
he has a laundry list of ways that he is beaten, scorned, abused, mocked.。
And that's in the book of Acts laid out for us.。
And so sometimes the work of choosing to trust in God。
and that belief he will come through for his people is even exhausting to consider。
when we think about what our present circumstances are.。
And yet scripture says that he gives us everything we need for life and godliness.。
So sometimes we don't trust that God, in God, is all life in abundance.。
And we try to manufacture our own happiness or chase after things。
that make us feel happy and comfortable in the moment.。
We strive after that picture of abundance rather than asking God,。
what does it really mean to have abundance in our lives?。
Scripture promises that the way that seems right to man actually leads to death.。
Therefore, the opposite is true in scripture,。
that the way that doesn't seem right to man,。
the way that seems really hard and really difficult。
is actually the way that leads to life and abundant life.。
Jesus is talking about a spiritual reality here。
that is greater and better than our physical reality,。
and it actually fuels the whole rest of our lives。
and our journeys here on this physical earth.。
Jesus says in another passage to his followers。
who are worried about what they will eat or what they will drink or what they will wear,。
if they follow Jesus, they choose this cost,。
this costly journey of following Jesus where he leads.。
He says to those people, seek first the kingdom of God。
and then all these things that you're longing for will actually be added to you.。
I give you everything you need and just like Psalm 23 says,。
you will lack no good thing.。
Jesus isn't saying, OK, if you follow God,。
you automatically get to date that guy you were really hoping to date。
or get that meal you were really hoping that you would be able to afford,。
but rather he is the one who gives us ultimate and full peace.。
He gives us deep peace and he provides that stillness。
and security and life in himself and not in our present circumstances.。
Everything else God provides for us on top of us, on top of that, well, that's a bonus.。
Following this good shepherd, the one whose ways lead to abundant life,。
revives our souls when we start becoming weary of doing good.。
When the weight of following Jesus feels never ending and exhausting,。
trusting the good shepherd means leaning into the rest that knowing Jesus provides.。
Can you think of a time recently when you felt at the end of your rope,。
maybe you felt burnt out?。
Jesus sees you in the midst of this exhaustion.。
Of course, Jesus can provide us seasons of physical rest,。
but he also provides us a deep spiritual rest in himself。
in the context of a relationship with him.。
The good shepherd leads us toward an abundant life.。
So we are fine when he leads us by still pastures or leads us by quiet waters,。
but what happens when we are walking through the valley of the shadow of death?。
Yikes.。
Does our confidence in God begin to waver?。
The good shepherd is our defender in the darkness.。
The good shepherd is our defender in the darkness.。
Let's go back to our passage here.。
Next few verses of John 10.。
I'm having you flip back and forth a lot today, so sorry about that.。
John 10 verses 11 through 13.。
"I am the good shepherd.。
The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.。
The hired hand is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep.。
So when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and runs away.。
Then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters it.。
The man runs away because he's a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep."。
And then the next couple of verses in Psalm 23.。
"Even though I walk through the darkest valley or valley of the shadow of death,。
I will fear no evil for your rod and your staff, they comfort me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.。
You anoint my head with oil and my cup overflows.。
The good shepherd is our defender in darkness."。
So I ask you again,。
what happens when you are no longer experiencing the highs of life。
or the peacefulness of a calm season?。
What happens when the what ifs you are most afraid of actually happen。
and your fears are realized before you。
in some of the most painful and traumatic moments of your life?。
How is the good shepherd both good and a shepherd in those seasons?。
Here in this passage,。
we see a mighty God who takes on the evil of the wolf fearlessly,。
who carries a rod and a staff.。
And takes the wolf who's trying to attack the sheep in his sheep pen。
by the teeth and throws him out of the pen.。
This is a depiction of mightiness and authority.。
This is the God who has fearlessly defeated any evil。
that can possibly triumph over our lives, whether that's our own sin。
or the sin of others that affects us.。
For some of you, maybe this mightiness in God has freaked you out,。
either now or in the past.。
Maybe you don't want to believe in a God who has complete sovereignty。
over your life because you're fearful about how God might use。
that rod and staff against you.。
But if you belong to God, if you're one of his sheep,。
then you must know that that rod and staff functions to protect you.。
If you've been walking with God for a while now,。
perhaps what used to be a fear of God's mightiness。
is something you now find comfort in, knowing that God has the final say.。
Maybe you feel safe and secure and comforting to know.。
But for all of us, the truth of this scripture can become comforting。
when we consider the good shepherd in the image of us。
walking through the valley of the shadow of death.。
In Israel, this is an actual place.。
And this might be wrong, and probably Pastor Mark knows the right answer for this,。
but I believe it's called the Valley of Hinnom.。
And I think that I've been there.。
And from what I remember of my memories, it's this rocky crevasse。
that has steep rocks on every single side.。
And historically, this would be a place where wild animals would run.。
Where outside of the old city of Jerusalem,。
they used to dump trash into this valley.。
So kind of a disgusting and dark place, and it makes sense。
why all these wild animals were roaming there.。
Pretty that, would you have complete confidence that you would be safe。
walking through that valley?。
What does it mean for us as believers to believe in a God。
that makes us fearless in the face of the valley of the shadow of death?。
How do we move from fear to confidence in God?。
And how do we move from what if to even if this happens,。
my God will come through for me again and again?。
Here's how.。
We can trust that the Good Shepherd always destroys the wolf.。
The wolf of sin and death can make us afraid.。
It can come to make us intimidated or fearful that our own sin。
or the sin of others will be ultimately victorious.。
But the Good Shepherd, he's there to protect us.。
In Isaiah 118, it says, "Come now, let us reason together.。
Though your sins be scarlet, they will be white as snow,。
and though they be red as crimson, they will be as wool."。
This is a promise of God in our lives for how he deals with our own sin.。
His wrath was placed on Jesus so that his wrath is directed。
towards protecting us from our own sin.。
I don't know if any of you have ever seen。
like those people who play flutes for boa constrictors before,。
and they make, I'm not describing it well,。
but they play flutes and they make the boa constrictor dance.。
And they've always been amazed, like, how terrifying,。
in the face of a boa constrictor, you're just playing this cute little song.。
How can you feel safe and secure that the boa constrictor。
won't one day reach out and all of a sudden,。
how can you be sure that you're safe?。
Well, I learned recently that actually,。
these people who play the flutes for the boa constrictors。
glue the mouths of the boa constrictors shut.。
Now, that's kind of a disturbing thing to realize about that.。
But I think that picture can translate to how we can view。
the sin in our own lives or in the lives of others。
and the ways that it affects us, that God has complete control。
and ultimate victory over the sin and darkness in the world。
and the evil in the world.。
And because of this, we can be bold and courageous。
because we have the right man on our side.。
When Brock and I were seniors in high school。
and recent Christians, we had the opportunity to interact with,。
we had the opportunity to visit North Africa and sit with missionaries。
who spent their entire lives working with shepherds。
in the hills of this North African country.。
And one of the missionaries was telling us a story about his interactions。
when he first got to the country with one of the shepherds.。
He said he he had stored up all these stories in his mind。
that he'd heard from preachers over the years about how dumb sheep are.。
And he brought those to the shepherd。
and started telling him, I've heard that sheep are so dumb。
that they just kind of wander in the same patch of grass。
and they eat all the grass there.。
And instead of moving on to another patch, they just don't realize it.。
They just start eating each other's manure in a circle like,。
they are so dumb, aren't they so dumb?。
And I will never forget the missionary turning to Brock and I and saying,。
you know, that shepherd looked me right in the face.。
And he said, don't call sheep dumb.。
These are my sheep. They matter to me.。
The shepherd had incredible love for these animals,。
and it's the shepherd's love and care for these animals。
that helped me begin to see this passage differently.。
And I think one of the most beautiful truths from this passage。
is that the good shepherd is not a hired hand.。
He's not going to abandon us.。
He chooses to be with us. It's his choice.。
That's not something the father makes him do.。
As it says in the passage, he has his own authority。
to lay down his life and pick it up again.。
It's his choice, Jesus's choice to sacrifice everything for his sheep,。
for you, for me.。
And in the face of great evil, because he's not a hired hand,。
he will defend us again and again.。
This isn't just his job.。
It's his never ending love for us that compels his actions toward us.。
The good shepherd is our defender in the darkness.。
So God's word promises that his voice is powerful enough。
not to just defend us, but also to lead us.。
Let's take a look at the next few verses here as we wrap up our time.。
In John 10, verses 14 through 18 say, "I am the good shepherd.。
I know my sheep and my sheep know me.。
Just as the father knows me and I know the father,。
I lay down my life for the sheep.。
I have other sheep that are not of the sheep pen, and I must bring them in also."。
I'm just going to pause and say that means us.。
If you are not an ethnic Jew who was born in Jerusalem,。
this promise is talking about Jesus is saying,。
"I'm going to bring others into my kingdom."。
So this is really sweet to realize Jesus is talking about you and me in this passage.。
So anyway, "I must bring them in also.。
They too will listen to my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd.。
The reason my father loves me is that I lay down my life only to take it up again.。
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down in my own accord.。
I have authority to lay it down and the authority to take it up again.。
This is the command I received from my father."。
And the last verse of Psalm 23, "Surely, surely, your goodness and love。
will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever."。
The good shepherd leads us to everlasting life.。
For many of us, we have asked at various points in our lives,。
"What is the purpose of my life? What is God's will for my life?"。
I'm not saying these are in and of themselves bad questions.。
These are questions in which to sit with before God and faithfully ponder.。
But at one point in the book of Isaiah, the prophet Isaiah hears—。
and this is why it's good to sit and ponder with these questions—。
in the book of Isaiah, the prophet hears from God that if he walks down one possible path,。
and then another, he will hear a voice from the Lord saying, "This is the way. Walk in it."。
This is an illustration of what it looks like to faithfully discern the paths God might be leading you towards.。
However, sometimes it can be so easy to become so caught up in God's will or purpose for our lives,。
like, "What good task does God want me to do? What college does he want me to attend?。
Does he want me to take this promotion or stay in my current position?。
What do the next five, ten years of my life look like?"。
That we can actually miss the true life God has called us into,。
where we are deeply attuned to every wavelength of his voice in our lives.。
God desires our dependence on his voice.。
In this passage, we are promised that if we belong to God, we can know his voice.。
That's a really sweet promise to rest in.。
And we can trust his leading voice in our lives, because as the passage shares,。
at the end of this part in John 10, he has eternal authority.。
And at the end of Psalm 23, that this kind of authoritative leading goes beyond this life,。
but actually continues in the life to come, where if we belong to the shepherd's flock,。
we experience the goodness and love that will continue in our lives as we dwell in God's house for eternity.。
I've also heard stories about sheep before, that a shepherd will actually take a newborn sheep。
that can easily run away from him, because maybe the sheep isn't yet familiar with the shepherd's voice,。
and that the shepherd will actually break the legs of the sheep,。
and put the sheep around the shepherd's neck for a few years, until the sheep's legs heal.。
Now this might seem really cruel and unusual, and it is kind of scary,。
but the reason the shepherd does this is actually for the safety of the sheep.。
That while the sheep is around the neck of the shepherd,。
the sheep is learning to hear the voice of the shepherd.。
The sheep is learning the voice so that one day, when the shepherd leads the flock,。
that the sheep can't go astray, that he knows the voice of the shepherd, and is able to follow after him.。
God's love in our lives compels us to hear his voice,。
and it's because of his love that he wants us to know his voice, his leading voice in our lives.。
A butcher would drive the sheep towards something,。
would try to get them to go into pen to be slaughtered,。
but a shepherd compels them to follow him.。
The voice of the Lord leading in your life is one of deep and everlasting peace and joy.。
It's from a place of deep and personal love for you, that he leads you and me.。
The good shepherd leads us to everlasting life.。
Jesus says in both of these passages that he is the good shepherd,。
and I believe that he longs for us to know him as the good shepherd,。
as one who leads us towards abundant life, those still waters and green pastures,。
as one who is our defender in the darkness, who destroys and defeats the wolf.。
He's already done that and will continue to defend us in the valley of the shadow of death,。
and as one who leads us, not just leads us in our day-to-day decisions,。
but toward everlasting life, which is ultimately found in him.。
Thanks be to God for that. Let's pray together.。
God, you are so merciful that we would be counted as yours.。
God, thank you for the opportunity we have to know you,。
and to be able to have confidence that if we know you and we belong to you,。
we can hear your voice.。
God, thank you that in the face of our worst,。
