Okay, our colleges are closed, okay?。
All right, let's see, how about next month?。
Any important dates next month, November?。
Thanksgiving, yes, Thanksgiving.。
So we're coming to the end of the year.。
In fact, as we are talking about this series。
on faith and time, think about how you use your time.。
What are the important reminders in our time,。
in our calendar?。
And we're talking about the Feast of Tabernacle, right?。
The Feast of Tabernacle, we talk about in biblical times,。
in the Old Testament or in the New Testament.。
It's a very important date.。
In fact,。
today,。
after sundown, Sukkot begins.。
Sukkot, I know, we in United States,。
so we are not really, we don't really care, right?。
So I flew to, last week I flew to。
this Midwestern seminary,。
and I was going through one of my seminars.。
So I flew back last Friday,。
or Thursday, actually, Thursday evening.。
So I got off the plane, in Midway Airport, if you remember,。
from the gate all the way to the baggage claim,。
there's quite a walk, right?。
Five to seven minutes or 10 minutes,。
depends on how fast you walk.。
But I met, I came across a couple,。
they were in black and white,。
and they were holding something, some plants in their hands.。
And then I said, "Happy Sukkot,"。
because they're a Jewish couple.。
They are heading to probably Skokie。
or some other Jewish community in the city of Chicago.。
So, hey, there you go, I saw them,。
"Hey, you know, Sukkot," right?。
So, happy Sukkot.。
So sundown today begins the Sukkot for seven days.。
So tomorrow is the first day of the Feast of Tap Neckles.。
So we will take some time to examine。
some of the passages in the Bible.。
Remember I said in the Old Testament,。
as well as in Jesus' time,。
there are three main festivals。
to remind the people of God, the grace of God.。
The Passover, around what month?。
In our calendar.。
Yeah, April, yeah, you're right.。
April, the spring.。
And then there's Shavuot, or Pentecost,。
which is seven weeks after Passover.。
So it's another half a day for the wheat and barley.。
And then the third one, the biggest festival is Sukkot.。
All right, so it's this week, all right?。
So let's take a look what the people of God。
in the Old Testament, how they celebrate Sukkot.。
So here I have a couple of verses from the book of Nehemiah.。
So when the Jewish people,。
they were in Babylonian exile for 70 plus years.。
So they returned to the land, to Jerusalem,。
and this is what they did.。
After building temple, we building a temple,。
we building the city wall, everything is done.。
And one more thing they do is to celebrate the festival.。
So chapter nine, verse 15,。
the leaders are telling the people to go to the hills。
to get branches from olive, wild olive, myrtle, palm,。
and all these kind of trees.。
And they use these branches to make sukkah, shelters,。
in which they will live during the seven day festival。
as prescribed in the law of Moses.。
So the people went out and cut branches。
and used them to build shelters, sukkah,。
on the roofs of their houses,。
because most of the Palestinian houses,。
they have flat roofs, unlike Chicago.。
In the courtyards, in the courtyards of God's temple,。
in the squares just inside the water gate and Ephraim Gate,。
so everyone who had returned from captivity。
lived in these sukkahs during the seven day festival.。
They were all filled with great joy.。
And the Israelites had not celebrated sukkot。
since days of Joshua.。
Somehow they have forgotten,。
or they have not had the full scale of celebration。
for so long, since the time of Joshua,。
since the time they entered the land.。
So this is what they do.。
When on sukkot, they will prepare, as I said,。
in Midway Airport, I met a Jewish couple.。
They were holding in their hands,。
you see the Jewish man in front of Western Gate,。
or the Western Wall,。
he was holding a bundle of plants.。
And just like the book of Leviticus talks about,。
on the first day, gather branches from magnificent trees,。
palm trees, leafy trees, willow, myrtle, or whatever,。
and celebrate with joy before the Lord your God。
for seven days.。
So what they have today, the modern Jews,。
they would put palm branches, myrtle,。
and willow together, three kinds of green leaves together.。
And then there's one citrus fruit called itro,。
and then they put together, and put in the bundle,。
and then they would shake it, front and back,。
left and right, up and down.。
And this is how they pray.。
So it's a time of celebration,。
it's a time to pray together.。
In fact, in Jesus' time, the Jews in Jerusalem,。
or in the land of Israel, this is how they celebrate,。
sukkot, they would gather some branches,。
maybe different, but something similar.。
They would pray together because in sukkot,。
it's actually a harvest day.。
It's the last harvest of the year.。
Okay, it's like you getting your paycheck, right?。
At the end of the year, it's my last paycheck, right?。
I'm waiting for my last paycheck or bonus, right?。
Yeah, there you go.。
And then you get your check or whatever, your deposit,。
and then you hold it in your hand,。
and you kind of shake it, you know, in all directions,。
and then you pray.。
Now, what do they do?。
In fact, they are thanking God。
for what God has done in their lives,。
something that doesn't seem very important。
because year after year, you get your harvest, right?。
Month after month, year after year, you get your bonus,。
right, you get your paycheck, you get your salary,。
something that occurs over and over again, right, routinely.。
But sukkot is to remind the people,。
you know, whatever happened in your lives,。
God's provision, you should not forget,。
to remember, to pray with thanksgiving.。
And then at the same time, sukkot falls in the days。
or the time that the summer is fading away,。
and the autumn and winter is coming.。
You know, you feel like it, right, in Chicago, right?。
Summer is gone, too bad,。
and then autumn or winter is coming.。
It's the changing of season.。
Now, in the Bible, then, the changing of season。
is even more contrasting.。
Now, in Chicago, summer is about, what, 80s, 90s,。
good days, right?。
80, 90s, Fahrenheit.。
That's pretty hot and a little bit humid.。
And then autumn and winter, what is the temperature now?。
50s, right, 50s, 50s, 40s, something like that.。
And then it will go down, right?。
It will go down, all the way down to negative, right?。
So you feel the temperature change, right?。
In the land of Bible, you also feel that contrast。
of summer and winter,。
because there's actually two seasons only。
in the land of Bible,。
summer, which is hot and dry, right?。
90 degree, 100 degree, very sunny, scorching heat.。
And then after Sukkot, the winter will come,。
and winter in the land of Bible is wet and colder,。
cold and wet.。
Summer is hot and dry, and winter is cold and wet,。
because the winter season kicks in the first rain,。
the first season of rain.。
Now, when I say rainy season,。
I don't mean one month has 30 days,。
and then 30 days is gonna get rain, no.。
A rainy season means in a month,。
you get like nine days or 10 days of rainy days.。
So when Sukkot comes, rain is expected.。
Rain is gonna come.。
So the Jewish man here in front of Western Wall,。
he and with other people are actually praying for rain,。
praying for another year that God will bless them,。
God will provide for them,。
because in the agricultural society,。
you need water and you need rain in order to get harvest.。
Right at this time in Sukkot,。
they will keep praying and praying。
that this coming year, God will bless them,。
God will bless us, so we can have enough water, enough rain,。
so that would guarantee our harvest coming, all right?。
It's kind of like you starting a new fiscal year,。
what do you expect?。
You anticipate growth, right?。
Hope that there will be a financial gain,。
or the report, the first quarter report,。
will match your whatever expectation。
or plan that you have, right?。
It's kind of like that in Sukkot.。
So praying for rain.。
In fact, for seven days in Sukkot,。
the last day, the seventh day,。
is the highest holiday of the entire week.。
And the priest in Jesus' day,。
they would go down from the temple。
to the downhill area of Jerusalem,。
and there's a big water pool there,。
it's called Saduam Pool.。
They would use a golden flask, golden flask,。
and pick up some water from the pool,。
and then bring it all the way back。
with processions and celebrations,。
go back to temple and the altar,。
and they would do a libation.。
You know, they would sprinkle the water。
in front of the temple,。
praying that God will give them a new year。
with provision and blessing.。
Now, this kind of festival or celebration。
reminds the people of God,。
everything comes from God,。
as basic as the rain from heaven.。
It's only because God provides, right?。
What a reminder for you, too.。
Whenever you pick up your paycheck,。
whenever you get your bonus, right?。
Have you ever thought about,。
we should be thankful?。
God provides, right?。
There's no guarantee, right?。
I was just talking to a friend,。
you know, we're getting old, right?。
We're getting old, we're like old cars.。
Some of our parts are not working, right?。
(congregation laughing)。
And we don't expect that.。
We don't expect that part will recover, right?。
Once you get some permanent damage。
or permanent deterioration, right?。
It's gone, right?。
It's kind of like your old car, right?。
The water pump is not working.。
You can replace it,。
but once in a while, it will get stuck again,。
and then you have to replace it again.。
And then come to a point that。
you realize the old car is not worth to fix it anymore.。
Right?。
It's kind of how life is, right?。
So I was talking to some of my friends。
because we are over 50s,。
and we are getting to the point。
that we know that some water pumps are not working,。
and some of our parts are not working.。
And we need to go to a physical therapist,。
we need to go to see doctors,。
we need to go to see dentists,。
and there's some deterioration.。
When it happens, it will not be renewed again, right?。
Now last week, I remind you,。
life is short, life is fragile.。
It is.。
We are broken, and we will be broken.。
And we better think about how we invest。
our lives and our times and our effort。
into something that will last.。
Sukkot is one of those festivals,。
year after year, to remind the people of God。
what you're living for, right?。
Who is providing for you, and for what purpose, right?。
I know we all have our own anxiety and our own concerns,。
right?。
Some of you may be worrying about your jobs,。
your career, your education,。
your family, your visa.。
Those are the practical stuff.。
That causes anxiety, right?。
Sukkot, one of those time reminders,。
is to remind us every single day,。
it's by God's provision, right?。
Now if I ask you, what are you thankful for these days?。
In the past few weeks, what are you thankful for?。
Can you think of something that you are thankful for,。
for the person next to you?。
That's great.。
So nice.。
(audience laughing)。
What are you thankful for?。
Right, think about it.。
Sukkot is one of those days.。
In fact, I told you, the last day of Sukkot,。
the seven day festival, is the day of greatest expectation.。
The people of God will pray for rain。
for the next season, for the next year.。
That God will give them blessing, right?。
And here, in the book of John, the gospel of John,。
we see what happened in the last day of Sukkot,。
the seventh day.。
Here is the story of Jesus.。
Now what happened before was that。
some of the brothers of Jesus,。
they went from the north, Galilee,。
going to Jerusalem to celebrate Sukkot.。
And those brothers did not believe in Jesus at that time.。
So they were telling Jesus,。
hey, if you are really the Messiah,。
why don't you go to the Sukkot with us?。
Go to the temple, go to Jerusalem,。
and announce yourself to be the Messiah, to be the king.。
And then everyone will believe in you.。
Of course, Jesus doesn't do any,。
that kind of show and tell, right?。
So Jesus said, I'm not going to Jerusalem,。
I'm not going to Sukkot.。
In fact, he went secretly.。
He went secretly in Jerusalem.。
He didn't show up on stage.。
He didn't talk to the people until the last day of Sukkot.。
So 737, Gospel of John.。
On the last day of Sukkot, the climax,。
the highest day of the festival of Sukkot,。
the tabernacles, Jesus stood and shouted to the crowd,。
"Anyone who is thirsty may come to me.。
"Anyone who believes in me, come and drink.。
"For the scriptures declare,。
"rivers of living water will flow from his heart."。
Now, when Jesus said living water,。
he was speaking of the spirit,。
who would be given to everyone believing in him.。
But the spirit had not yet been given。
because Jesus had not died and rose again。
and entered into his glory.。
So at that point in chapter seven of Gospel of John,。
on the last day of Sukkot, when people are so thirsty,。
so thirsty because after four or five months。
of dry and heat, dry and hot summer,。
they were expecting, they were wanting,。
yearning for water, for rain.。
The last day, the best time to announce this gospel。
is that anyone, if you are thirsty,。
everyone you can imagine,。
you know, when their water tank is lowest,。
when their bank account is lowest,。
they were expecting a new year, right?。
Kind of like you spend all your money, right?。
At the end of the month, at the end of the year,。
you're expecting God will provide for you, right?。
When you are poorest, when you're a lack of money,。
when you're a lack of water,。
you're expecting God will bless you.。
And Jesus said and announced on the climax of the day,。
if you are thirsty, come to me,。
because I give you more than literal water,。
living water, eternal life, eternity.。
This is what you want.。
What you really want is not just a paycheck.。
What you really want is me giving you the life of God。
that will last forever lasting.。
It will not end.。
And sometimes we think what we want。
is the ultimate need that we have.。
Jesus said, no, it's only for temporary relief.。
Next year, you're gonna need water again.。
Next month, you need another provision again.。
You need another paycheck.。
You need another level of happiness。
or whatever you're seeking for.。
The true need, the ultimate need that we need。
is eternal life.。
And that's what Sukkot is all about.。
On the climax of the festival, Jesus said,。
if you're thirsty year after year, month after month,。
you find yourself lacking week after week,。
I announce to you, I give you river of living water,。
the best water, the best water.。
The everlasting supply of water is from me,。
from the Spirit, right?。
Now we're in Christ.。
We enjoy this kind of living water。
because Spirit is living in you.。
Now we often struggle after we follow Christ,。
is the Spirit speaking to me, right?。
Have you ever wondered, the Spirit, God is speaking to you?。
I think God is constantly speaking to us.。
The problem is our world is too noisy。
and we cannot hear the voice of the Spirit, right?。
We're too busy with our own things,。
too noisy in our environment,。
and we hardly hear the word of God, right?。
The problem is not the speaker.。
The problem is the audience, it's us.。
Sometimes we don't slow down.。
We don't read the word of God, right?。
And we treat our relationship with God as transactional.。
Whenever I have a need, right?。
Okay, I am building my family, I need some more money.。
You know?。
God, I pray, and out of the blue, you drop some money, right?。
Well, you don't do that.。
So, you know, I'm gonna forsake you.。
You see that kind of relationship?。
We have a list of needs we present to God。
and hope that God will fulfill those needs, right?。
If God fulfill those needs,。
then I'll come draw closer to God, right?。
For what?。
For more needs, right?。
We need, we have more wants.。
And then if God satisfy those wants,。
we are satisfied and then we come back to God。
with even more needs, right?。
So, the cycle go back and forth, back and forth,。
you know, just continuously.。
And you see that kind of relationship with God。
is transactional.。
You know what transactional is?。
It's like husband and wife, right?。
Well, how do you tell a husband and wife。
really love each other?。
How do you tell they don't really love each other?。
It's when, you know, I do the dishes。
so that you do other things, right?。
I mop the floor and you're gonna bring food on the table,。
right?。
If I don't mop the floor, right?。
Okay, then you don't bring food on the table.。
In order for you to bring food on the table,。
then I'll have to do something, right?。
It's transactional, it's an exchange.。
I do something and you do something, right?。
I do something to earn you something.。
Now, that kind of relationship is actually idolatry.。
It's worshiping idol, right?。
How do you know two people are really loving each other?。
Is that the husband is loving the wife 100%,。
unconditional, and the other person is loving back,。
unconditionally.。
That is a real relationship.。
And our relationship with God is the same thing.。
It should not be transactional.。
It should be a relationship we can enjoy, right?。
I serve God, it's not because I wanna get good stuff。
from God.。
I'm faithful to God, it's not because God is good to me.。
God is sprinkling some money to me,。
and then I'll do something back to earn the blessing.。
No, that is not a real relationship。
because it becomes transactional, it becomes an exchange,。
becomes a financial transaction, right?。
In order for us to really relate to God,。
I mean, eternal relationship,。
is for us to understand God loves us unconditionally,。
fully, 100%.。
So we love Him back, not because we wanna gain something。
or earn something from Him.。
It's because we respond thankfully, right?。
All the things that we do for God, in ministry, in service,。
by living closely to the Word of God,。
what we do for God is a response,。
is to tell God, "Thank you.。
"Thank you for your grace, right?。
"I don't earn it, I don't deserve it."。
And that kind of relationship。
is the biblical relationship with God.。
Now I hope this analogy will remind you。
what does it mean to worship God Himself?。
What does it mean to serve Him?。
What does it mean to follow Christ?。
Now I'll close with a short story about Sukkot, okay?。
About building the tabernacle.。
I think years ago, there was a chief rabbi in England,。
in United Kingdom.。
So it was in UK, his name is Jonathan Sachs.。
He was a chief rabbi in England, everyone respects him.。
And he was telling a really good story about Sukkot.。
When he was younger, so much younger, he just got married.。
So as a Jewish man, he got married。
and building his own family.。
Sukkot comes and as a new family, husband and wife,。
they are supposed to build Sukkot, right?。
So he was not quite handy.。
Anyone of you are handy here?。
Nails and hammer, putting things together, you are?。
Yeah, okay, you're not.。
Well, Rabbi Sachs was not very handy.。
So he didn't know what to do, right?。
How do you put things together like a tent or a Sukkot?。
How do you do that?。
So he doesn't know.。
So he asked his friend, how to build a Sukkot?。
And his friend happens to be very, very handy.。
So the friend invite him, hey, I'm going to like Home Depot,。
lumberjack or something.。
And then we're gonna buy something for building my Sukkot.。
You wanna come along?。
And Rabbi said, of course, yeah, I wanna come along, right?。
And this friend of Rabbi Sachs was very handy.。
And he went into the Home Depot store。
and with a big list of materials and all the detail plan,。
right, how to nail the tent together。
with lights and all that stuff.。
And it's kind of like that.。
Kind of like that.。
There's some Sukkot are really, really elaborate.。
So his friend had a really elaborate plan,。
a blueprint, how to build a Sukkot.。
So he was going with his friend, he had no plan at all.。
So he ended up buying just three, four by eight,。
some nails, brought them all home.。
And then his friend got all these plans, right,。
with all the lights and all the decoration on it,。
very beautiful.。
So his friend built his Sukkot。
and he built his Sukkot outside of his home.。
Each one has a Sukkot.。
And his friend's Sukkot, of course, it's very elaborate,。
but his Sukkot is like a cardboard,。
four by eight nailed together only.。
And then that night, a powerful storm came by,。
strong wind and strong wind.。
And then the next morning, both of them got up。
and checked on their Sukkot.。
His friend's Sukkot fell down, collapsed altogether.。
Everything's gone.。
And then he called Rabbi Sacks and said,。
"How about your Sukkot?。
"Is it still standing?"。
And Rabbi Sacks went out to the patio and checked the Sukkot.。
Yeah, my Sukkot is still standing.。
And guess what, it's still here.。
And his friend, in disbelief,。
he drove all the way to the Rabbi's house。
and checked on his tabernacle, his Sukkot.。
And he was checking why,。
why my Sukkot, so elaborate, fell on the strong wind.。
But his Sukkot is so poor and still standing.。
And then he's checking his architecture,。
how he built things together and put things together.。
He found there was one nail。
of the Rabbi's Sukkot was nailed to the wall of the house.。
And that's why the Sukkot did not fall.。
His Sukkot, however elaborate it is,。
fell after the wind and the storm.。
And his friend, all of a sudden, just dawned on him.。
"I know what that nail is.。
"That nail is the nail of faith.。
"It's the nail of faith."。
See, how elaborate you build your life,。
Sukkot, as your life,。
how many plans that you have,。
how many investments you have,。
it really doesn't matter at the end.。
Because when the test of life comes,。
when storm hits you,。
your life will collapse,。
unless you have the nail of faith.。
And that nail of faith, his friend realized,。
is our faith.。
It's our faith in God.。
It's our faithfulness in God,。
to walk in God faithfully.。
I hope this lesson, this story,。
is not just interesting to you.。
But it's insightful and transforming to us.。
To realize what are we planning for,。
our 401k, our retirement, our family, our whatever.。
If you don't have the nail of faith,。
when storm comes,。
when wind and rain hit you,。
you will collapse.。
Only with the nail of faith,。
then you can stand.。
C.S. Lewis, I mentioned to you last week,。
he said, "Do not let your joy。
"depend on something you may lose."。
There are many things that don't last into eternity.。
There are many things like that.。
And you will lose them.。
You will lose all of them.。
But there is something that will last,。
eternal life.。
Right?。
Our service to God,。
our investment into His kingdom,。
they will all last.。
And they will not collapse.。
You know, in times of tabernacle,。
in times of Sukkot,。
if you go into a Jewish synagogue today,。
one of the scriptures that they will read。
during Sukkot, during this week,。
is the book of Ecclesiastes.。
Now, the book of Ecclesiastes is a very long book.。
It's 12 chapters.。
Not gonna go through all the details。
'cause we're gonna end here.。
But the central idea, the big idea。
of the book of Ecclesiastes。
is that everything is meaningless under the sun.。
Now, under the sun, everything will repeat again and again.。
It will be occurring all the time, right?。
No matter you live in Stone Age。
or live in today,。
everything will continue to repeat.。
So everything is meaningless under the sun。
because someday you're gonna die, right?。
And we're gonna die.。
So what makes life meaningful at the end,。
the 12th chapter,。
is that you don't live under the sun.。
You should have a perspective to live above the sun,。
above this world.。
You get an eternal anchor, the nail of faith,。
the eternal perspective to see what you're doing,。
big or small.。
You got another anchor, eternal anchor,。
to evaluate what you're doing,。
whether it's worth it or not.。
And that is life above the sun.。
And Ecclesiastes says that is a meaningful life。
because whatever you do,。
if you have that perspective to fear God,。
it will last.。
It will work eternally.。
12.13, I'm gonna end with this last two verses.。
Now, this is the whole story.。
So he was arguing for 12 chapters.。
Life under the sun is meaningless。
because we're gonna die, right?。
Here now is my final conclusion.。
Fear God and obey His commands。
for this is everyone's duty.。
God will judge us for everything we do,。
including every secret thing,。
whether good or bad.。
Life of wisdom, life of worth,。
is to invest into something that is eternal, right?。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, wherever we are in our life journey,。
we pray that you will remind us time and time again。
that our life and our time needs to be invested。
in eternal course,。
into your gospel, into your people, into your kingdom.。
And I pray that you will help us to return back to you.。
We return to you with a heart to serve you 100%。
because you love us so much.。
You love us 100%, 200%, beyond measure.。
That we enjoy the eternal life。
because of the cross of Christ.。
And thank you we can worship you and listen to your word.。
And I pray that this coming week,。
no matter what we do,。
any things that seems insignificant,。
we do this to honor your name.。
We do all of our works。
and everything that we do,。
pray that we will do something worthy for your kingdom,。
to invest our life and our time in you,。
to listen to your word, to pray to you, to worship you.。
And I pray that you will grant us strength.。
And thank you for being our God。
and being our loving God in Christ, we pray.。
Well, God bless you。
and pray that you will continue to worship with us。
