And let's turn to the word.。
One question I wanna ask you is that。
where do you find in the Bible。
the story of the birth of Jesus Christ?。
All right, if you can talk to your neighbor,。
where do you find it, the first Christmas story,。
all right, so-called first Christmas story,。
where do you find in the Bible?。
Where?。
All right, so Old Testament or New Testament?。
New Testament, right, which book?。
Luke, okay, right, the third book of the New Testament,。
and then the first book, right, the Gospel of Matthew.。
Basically, you find the stories of the record,。
the historical record of the first Christmas,。
the birth of Jesus Christ, the details over there.。
So let's turn to the first book of the New Testament,。
the Gospel of Matthew, chapter one, verse 18.。
Here we go.。
This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about.。
His mother, Mary, was pledged to be married to Joseph,。
but before they came together,。
she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit.。
19, because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man。
and did not want to expose her to public disgrace,。
he had in mind to divorce her quietly.。
Now, everybody loves the Christmas story, right?。
Everybody loves the Christmas story.。
A young Jewish couple, about 14 years old, 15 years old,。
back then, people marry very early in their lives,。
and in Jewish marriage, there were two stages of marriage.。
The first stage, the first period, is about a year long,。
is called betrothal or engagement.。
It's about one year long,。
and in the beginning of that one year,。
when a young couple get engaged,。
usually the parents arrange them.。
So they arrange them, and then they talk about。
the bride price and all that details,。
and then the young couple will be,。
technically, legally, they will be married,。
and we call them betrothed or engaged,。
and take about a year to prepare for the real wedding,。
which is the second stage,。
and the couple will consummate their marriage relationship.。
So it is at this point in the first stage。
of betrothal and engagement。
that we find the first Christmas story.。
So Mary was found to be with a child.。
She was pregnant.。
And then for Joseph, and you think about it,。
it's quite a tension, it's quite a tension,。
because all you plan for, all you arrange ahead of time,。
didn't work out, right?。
Mary was found to be with a child.。
And for Joseph, for the husband,。
in this stage, in the first stage, the betrothal,。
Mary and Joseph, even though they are so-called engaged,。
but they are officially and legally,。
they are husband and wife.。
So at this point, Joseph had two options, all right?。
One option is to divorce Mary properly,。
grab her to the city gate, to the court of the day,。
and divorce her and just shame her,。
because it's presumed that Mary is with child。
before they come together, before the second stage.。
So it's presumed that Mary would have committed adultery.。
And in the traditional society,。
and actually in some areas in the land of Palestine today,。
it's so conservative that whoever found。
to be committing adultery would be stoned to death.。
So that's the first option for Joseph.。
The second option for Joseph is to divorce Mary privately.。
Probably would ask two or three witnesses。
and come together in a private setting to divorce her,。
give her a divorce certificate.。
I think Joseph still had compassion toward Mary.。
At this point, I think he was trying to keep it down。
to divorce Mary quietly, to save Mary from public disgrace.。
So here's what happened.。
And Joseph, if you think about from his perspective,。
would he believe that Mary had a child from the Holy Spirit?。
Would he believe that it was really a miracle from God,。
because we got another version,。
Mary's version from the Gospel of Luke, right?。
At this point, Joseph knew nothing about the annunciation,。
about the news that the angel brought to Mary.。
So Joseph knew nothing about it,。
and it was pretty difficult for him to accept the reality.。
But this is where God came with his divine intervention.。
He sent an angel in chapter one, verse 20 and following.。
But after Joseph had conceded all of this,。
an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said,。
Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid。
to take Mary home as a wife,。
because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.。
It's a virgin birth, it's a miracle, only God could do.。
She will give birth to a son,。
and you are to give him the name Jesus.。
And the name Jesus means he will save,。
he will redeem his people from their sins.。
Now with that, Joseph obeyed God。
in kind of a difficult situation.。
Even though in the midst of uncertainty,。
you just don't know what happened next, right?。
So Joseph was kind of an example here,。
example of obedience and compassion.。
So he took Mary as wife,。
and essentially he was adopting Jesus to be his legal son.。
Now remember, Joseph is from the house of David.。
He's one of the descendants of the Davidic dynasty,。
the house of David.。
So in adopting Jesus to be his legal son,。
Jesus would be son of David as well.。
Now why did all this happen?。
Matthew continued, 1:22.。
All this took place is to fulfill the will of God.。
What the Lord has said through the prophet.。
Here Isaiah 7.。
The virgin will be with child,。
and will give birth to a son,。
and they will call his name Emmanuel.。
Well, we sang the song,。
which means in Hebrew, God with us.。
Now why did this happen?。
Matthew is quoting a prophecy。
spoken 700 years before the time of Christ.。
It was back in the time of the Davidic dynasty,。
and it was about 700 BC, before Christ.。
It was a wonderful prediction, right?。
700 years before,。
already prophesied the birth of Jesus Christ.。
Now that is only half of the story,。
because as we know, the Bible is not written to us, right?。
The Bible is not written directly to us,。
but the Bible is written for us.。
Now with that said,。
the Bible always has a historical background.。
There are tons of history,。
tons of background behind the Bible.。
So we have to understand why Matthew。
is quoting this prophecy from Isaiah 7.。
So Isaiah 7, let's turn to that.。
What happened at that time was that in about 700 BC,。
there was,。
the dynasty of David was already divided。
into North and South.。
The Northern Kingdom is called Israel.。
The Southern Kingdom is called Judah.。
Now what happened in 700 BC was that。
the Northern Kingdom, Israel,。
and other pagan nation called Aram,。
they decided to form a sort of a military coalition。
against Judah, against Judah in the South.。
Now Judah was a much smaller nation,。
and didn't stand a chance.。
So back then, the king of Judah called Ahaz,。
he was freaking out.。
He was freaking out because these two pagan nations。
are invading Jerusalem, invading the nation of Judah.。
So it was about 700 BCE.。
This little country was under military attack。
by two coalition, Israel and Aram.。
So what happened was that when the king was freaking out,。
did not believe in God, did not trust in God,。
then the Lord told Isaiah to prophesize to him,。
to speak to King Ahaz.。
Verse 10, the Lord spoke to King Ahaz,。
and he said, "Ask the Lord your God for a sign,。
"whether it's the deepest depth or the highest heights."。
So the sky is the limit, you can ask anything.。
You can ask a sign from God that God will confirm。
that he is with you.。
God is protecting you, and you can trust him.。
But King Ahaz said, "What?。
"I will not ask, I will not put the Lord to the test."。
Now that may sound really godly, right?。
I don't wanna test God, I don't wanna tempt God, right?。
But in fact, we know King Ahaz was an evil king.。
He did not trust in Yahweh, he did not worship God.。
He has actually did something to save himself.。
So he scraped the gold and silver。
from the temple in Jerusalem,。
and gave it to another bigger king,。
which is Assyria up on the upper right.。
Asked Assyria to help him and save himself.。
So he has already taken money out of the temple treasury。
to bribe another enemy nation, Assyria, to help him out.。
So he did not trust God,。
and hiring the Assyrians to help him out.。
Now hiring the Assyrians to help him out。
is like taking money out of the offering box, right?。
Taking money out of the offering box。
in order to rob the church.。
So Ahaz was a really bad king,。
he did not want to tell the prophet.。
Now, but we're at this point, Isaiah continue his word.。
Essentially he's saying, even though you don't trust me,。
you don't trust God, how so, David?。
Is it not enough to try the patient of man?。
Will you try the patient of my God also?。
Therefore, the Lord will still give you a sign.。
The Lord will still give you a sign,。
some sort of evidence to tell you that he is with you,。
even though you are faithless, but God is faithful.。
And that sign is the virgin will be with child。
and will give you a son.。
And you will call his name, Emmanuel, God of us.。
Verse 16, and this child will be born,。
but before the boy, this newborn child,。
knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right,。
the land of the two kings, remember Israel and Aram, right?。
It's trying to attack Israel, trying to attack Judah.。
These two kings will be laid waste.。
Now, I highlight here, verse 16,。
before the boy knows enough to reject the wrong。
and choose the right.。
It means when a child is born, continue to grow,。
and at some point, he will know what is right and wrong,。
right, what is black and white.。
Now, how old is the boy, how old is he,。
going to tell the difference between right and wrong?。
Not very old, right?。
Probably in a couple of years, right, two years old.。
Know enough to tell what is right and what is wrong.。
So essentially, the prophecy of Emmanuel,。
in the context, in the background of Isaiah 7, 700 BCE,。
is saying in a couple of years,。
God will save you from trouble.。
God will save you from the attacks。
of the two northern kingdoms.。
God will save you, and you will,。
you have to put your trust in him.。
So God is saying, this boy will be born.。
This prophecy will come true in your day.。
In a couple of years, God will save you.。
So you have to put your trust in him.。
This is a test of faith.。
But King Ahaz, as we know, he failed the test, right?。
In the midst of difficulties,。
in the midst of difficult circumstances,。
he chose to trust himself, right?。
Hire the Assyrians to help him out.。
He failed the test.。
But God giving this sign, this newborn baby,。
is to tell the house of David, he will be with them,。
even though the circumstances look very difficult,。
very challenging.。
And then we fast forward 700 years later,。
in the first century, when Christ was born,。
Matthew was telling us, this prophecy fulfilled again。
in the time of Jesus' birth.。
Now you're saying, okay, let me ask the question.。
So were there two virgin births?。
One 700 before Christ, and then one in the first century。
when Christ was born?。
No, no, there were not two virgin births.。
All right, because when Isaiah talks about this prophecy,。
he used the word for virgin, English is translated virgin,。
is actually young woman only.。
So virginity is not required, it's only implied, all right?。
So the word is amar in Hebrew.。
Actually in the Hebrew dictionary,。
there's another word, technical word for virgin,。
which is betulah.。
Isaiah 7 did not use that.。
So it's vague enough, it is broad enough,。
to say that in times of Ahaz, in times of 700 BCE,。
the young woman, not virgin, will bear a child.。
And then fast forward 700 years,。
in the time of the birth of Jesus,。
the final fulfillment of this prophecy came true.。
You got my point?。
700 years before, there was an initial fulfillment。
in times of King Ahaz.。
Now in the first century, finally we see。
the ultimate fulfillment of the word of God.。
So the promise in the Old Testament,。
always have, or often has, multiple fulfillments.。
When God says something, sometimes it was initially fulfilled。
in his own time, but then there are multiple fulfillments。
until the time of Christ fulfilled all of them.。
For example, the first temple built。
by the son of David, Solomon, right?。
The first temple was prophesied to be built,。
and it was indeed built by King Solomon, the first temple.。
And then several hundred years later,。
the temple was destroyed by the Babylonians.。
The people were in exile.。
The Jewish people were in exile in Babylon.。
And then 70 years later, they returned。
to the land of Palestine, they rebuilt their own home,。
and they rebuilt a second temple, another fulfillment.。
And then in the time of Christ, Christ is saying,。
he's responding to the Jerusalem temple,。
built by stone, built by hands.。
He said, "If you destroy this temple,。
"I will rebuild it in three days."。
Now what Jesus was saying was that,。
"I will rebuild my own body.。
"I will resurrect from the dead,。
"and my body will be the new temple."。
That is the ultimate fulfillment.。
Now what I'm saying is, in the Old Testament,。
when you find some prophecies,。
it's not necessarily it has to be fulfilled。
many, many years later.。
There are many different multiple fulfillments along the way.。
And this is also true for Isaiah 7, the Emmanuel prophecy.。
So when Matthew penned the gospel,。
he was checking many different accounts,。
many different stories, some he had heard before,。
because he followed Jesus for a few years.。
He's one of the 12 disciples.。
He knows something about the story of Christ.。
He also gathered and collected different stories。
from different disciples of different traditions.。
He put together the gospel of Matthew.。
Now the question for you is,。
the very beginning I asked you,。
where in the New Testament you can find。
the story of first Christmas, right?。
One of them is gospel of Matthew, of course, right?。
Now, why was gospel of Matthew written?。
Why did Matthew decide to write a gospel of Matthew?。
Where you find the life of Christ,。
different story stitched together,。
come together as one book, gospel of Matthew.。
Again, it's the historical background.。
Because in the first century,。
when Matthew wrote the first gospel, the gospel of Matthew,。
the young church was in crisis.。
It was under the Roman Empire.。
It was being persecuted.。
And the young church being persecuted,。
the people in the church, many of them are Jewish believers,。
they need to reconsolidate their faith.。
They need to understand what they really believe in.。
That's why Matthew decided to write the gospel of Matthew.。
To tell the church what you should believe.。
And to strengthen the faith of the church.。
So Matthew is collecting different stories of gospel.。
And then he traced the story and find a certain pattern.。
For Jesus, when he looks at the birth of Jesus,。
the first Christmas, he found that Jesus。
is indeed the son of David.。
Because Joseph is the son of David.。
And that's why Matthew, in chapter one,。
if you turn to the very first chapter of the New Testament,。
it's not very appealing.。
It's the genealogy of Jesus, right?。
So he traces from Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,。
generation after generation to King David,。
the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth, King David.。
And then he traced after David, Solomon,。
and all the kings in the divided kingdom.。
And then finally it comes to the Babylonian exile.。
When everything seems to be over,。
when the nation of Judah was attacked。
and destroyed by the Babylonians,。
everything seems game over,。
he continued to trace the genealogy.。
No, God is still faithful.。
And generation after generation from exile,。
he traced another generation of Sababel,。
Jewish people who come back to Jerusalem。
and rebuild the temple.。
And generation after generation doesn't end.。
And finally it comes to Joseph and Mary.。
And then Jesus.。
That's why in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter one,。
after tracing the genealogy of Jesus Christ from Abraham,。
David to exile to Jesus Christ,。
verse 17, it says,。
there were 14 generations in all from Abraham to David.。
And then from David to the exile to Babylon,。
there were 14 generations.。
And then from exile to the coming of Christ,。
to Christ, Jesus, there were also 14 generations.。
So he divided the entire Old Testament,。
all together about 39 books together.。
Matthew divides the entire Old Testament history。
into three periods, 14 generations for each.。
Now the question for you, why 14?。
Why 14?。
All right, why 14?。
Now in the ancient Hebrew culture,。
they didn't have the Arabic numerals,。
like what we do have, one, two, three, four, and so on.。
Every letter of the 22 letters of Hebrew,。
each alphabet represents a numerical value.。
Like the first one, aleph, is one.。
The second one, bay, is two.。
Gimel is three.。
Dalet is four.。
And then hey is five, and so on.。
Val is the sixth letter, is number six.。
So they used different letters to represent different numbers.。
Now David, King David's name,。
it was originally written without the val.。
So you take out the a and i, you've got dvd.。
So David was originally written as dvd or dwd.。
D is the fourth letter, and v, or w, is the sixth letter.。
So you add them all up, and you get 14.。
So 14 is the royal number for the King David's dynasty.。
So when Matthew was tracing the Christmas story,。
he find that the long genealogy of Jesus Christ。
actually is 14 generations for three periods.。
And of course, as the son of David,。
the real son of David, the final son of David,。
his number is also 14, right?。
14.。
The birth of Jesus Christ is so much more。
than the miracle birth of virgin birth.。
Okay, so note this.。
Of course, Jesus was born as a virgin,。
the divinity of Christ.。
He is the deity, he's 100% God and 100% human.。
What a miracle.。
It was indeed a miracle.。
But the prophecy in Isaiah 7, the Emmanuel sign,。
is so much more than just the miraculous nature。
of the birth.。
It is the timing of the birth.。
700 years before Christ, in time of King Ahaz.。
It was just at the right time, God save his people.。
Here in the first century, God did the same thing.。
Right, so Matthew is trying to rethink,。
trace the pattern in the first Christmas story.。
And the story doesn't stop there,。
because in chapter two of the Gospel of Matthew,。
you remember the so-called three wise men, right?。
The three wise men from the east,。
they came to Jerusalem to worship the newborn king.。
They came to the town Bethlehem.。
Now Bethlehem is the hometown of David, right?。
Remember that?。
The hometown of David was Bethlehem,。
and Christ Jesus was born in Bethlehem.。
So this, Herod the Great, at the time,。
it was Herod the Great, the evil king,。
he was an other pharaoh-like oppressor,。
trying to persecute the baby Jesus, right?。
The boy Jesus, trying to kill him.。
So Joseph took his entire family, Jesus and Mary,。
became a refugee, and went down to Egypt by night.。
So Matthew, thinking about this story,。
in chapter two, verse 15, why did this happen?。
Jesus became a refugee, went down to Egypt.。
He said, "So it is, to fulfill what God has said。
"through the prophet."。
And he is quoting from Hosea, chapter 11.。
It says, "Out of Egypt I call my son."。
Out of Egypt I call my son.。
Now you check, you go back if you have time,。
go back to the book of Hosea in the Old Testament.。
It was not about prediction.。
It was not about predicting 700 years later,。
or so many years later,。
then Jesus will come out of Egypt.。
The entire chapter is talking about。
God's commitment to his people.。
When they were suffering in the land of slavery,。
in the land of bondage, to be slaves for Pharaoh.。
In Hosea 11, God is saying, "I will not abandon you.。
"I will be with you.。
"I will rescue you out of Egypt.。
"There will be an exodus."。
So Matthew is chasing the Christmas story.。
He is seeing a pattern.。
Jesus went down to Egypt, and he will come out of Egypt。
because God will not forget his people.。
In Jesus, there will be the real exodus.。
In the story of Jesus, he also went through exodus,。
just like the Old Testament people of Israel.。
They went down to Egypt,。
and they came out of Egypt in the exodus.。
And in Jesus, finally, we see the real final exodus.。
And the story continues.。
King Herod tried to kill the boys。
under two years old in Bethlehem.。
As you can see, it's horrible.。
It's a horrible story.。
Under two years old, all the boys, he slaughtered them.。
2.17, Matthew sees another pattern.。
He said, "This happened is to fulfill。
"what was said by Prophet Jeremiah.。
"A voice is heard in Ramah, weeping and mourning.。
"Rachel, weeping for her children。
"and refusing to be comforted。
"because the children are no more."。
You see the pattern here.。
He's quoting Jeremiah 31.。
And Jeremiah was about 500 years before Christ.。
What Jeremiah was talking about in chapter 31。
is that when the Babylonian slaughtered the Jewish people,。
killed them one by one,。
and captured them at a place called Ramah,。
and a place called Ramah,。
and Ramah happened to be just close to,。
right next to Bethlehem.。
It was tragic for the nation。
because the nation was finally, seems like game over.。
And all the men of Judah was being captured at Ramah,。
and they marched from Ramah all the way out to Babylon.。
It was in the time of exile.。
It was in the time of weeping and loss.。
Lost the men, the children of Judah.。
Jeremiah 31.。
You keep on seeing the context there.。
If you check what Jeremiah 31 has to say next,。
it's not just about the exile.。
Because 31, Jeremiah 31,。
is about the return, the hope of return.。
Even though the people of God is in exile,。
God will wipe away their tears.。
God will comfort them again,。
will bring them back to the land,。
will give them back to homeland.。
You see the pattern here as Matthew sees it.。
In Jesus, we see the real return,。
the true return to homeland.。
The true home is found in Jesus Christ.。
He will wipe away our tears of exile.。
Early on, we were praying for our community.。
Tragic news that we receive.。
So in the middle of last week,。
one of my friends called me.。
He's a very close friend of the victim's family.。
He called me and said, "Hey, Mark,。
"so-and-so just died from a gunshot."。
I could not believe that.。
I could not believe that.。
What a tragic news.。
And other one hitting our community.。
So in times like this,。
we always ask ourselves, where's our home?。
Where do we go that we have real security,。
that we'll have real hope?。
We'll find this place to be really like our home.。
We fear our insecurity.。
We fear about the craziness going on in our world.。
We don't feel like home.。
That is what happened to the Jewish people.。
Yes, they returned from Babylonian exile,。
but empire after empire, they're persecuting them.。
They were living, we were in a very, very hard life.。
They were still living in exile.。
Matthew was saying in the Christmas story,。
if you hope for a real return,。
it's not a political return.。
It's not a historical return.。
It's a spiritual return.。
You return to Jesus Christ,。
you will find that your tears, your mourning be over。
because the eternal hope that we have in Jesus Christ.。
Christmas story continues.。
After King Herod died, Jesus and his family,。
Joseph took his whole family out of Egypt。
and back to the land of Israel.。
And eventually they settled down。
in a place called Nazareth in Galilee.。
It's a very small town.。
And Matthew concludes the entire Christmas story。
with this saying.。
Having been warned in dream by the angel,。
Joseph withdrew to the district of Galilee。
and he went and lived in a town,。
settled down there called Nazareth.。
So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets.。
He will be called a Nazarene.。
Now, the prophets talk about Nazarene.。
Actually, no.。
If you check the entire Old Testament, 39 books,。
not one place mentioned the town of Nazareth.。
But Matthew is saying, hey, the prophets are actually saying。
that the Messiah will be a Nazarene.。
Now, here we need to understand how the Jewish people,。
especially the rabbis, how they read scripture.。
Sometimes they will pick different words。
and connect different dots.。
Some of the words, they sound alike, sound very similar.。
They will connect them together.。
And what we find in Isaiah 11,。
in fact, there is a prophecy,。
there is a promise to the house of David。
that sounded like Nazareth, 11.1.。
It says a soot will come up from the stump of Jesse.。
Okay, the stump of Jesse.。
The tree is being chopped down.。
It's like the nation of Judah being destroyed, right?。
It's like a dead tree.。
The stump of Jesse.。
Why Jesse?。
Jesse is the father of David, okay?。
It's the dynasty, the forefather of the dynasty, the nation.。
The stump of Jesse is being chopped down.。
However, there is a branch grow from the stump.。
And the branch in Hebrew is Nasi.。
Nasi will grow and the spirit of the Lord。
will be with his servant。
and the servant will be the redeemer, the Messiah.。
Nasi will grow out of death, out of the ashes.。
God is still there with them, with the people of God.。
And the dynasty of David, the house of David,。
will not be forgotten.。
So actually, this is the prophecy Matthew is referring to.。
A Nasi will grow up.。
The Nasi will grow up out of the ashes, out of darkness.。
The nation of Judah, the people of God,。
the kingdom of God will come.。
This is actually how the Jewish rabbi。
would like to read scripture.。
This is one of their techniques.。
It's called mitrash.。
Mitrash means seeking.。
In Hebrew, it means to stop and to ponder.。
That's what mitrash means.。
It's a technique of reading and interpreting scripture.。
Connecting the dots.。
You see the pattern here?。
This whole story of Israel in the Old Testament。
found in the story of the first Christmas.。
Find in the life of Christ.。
When you look at the life of Jesus,。
you look at the entire Old Testament story,。
and you see the faithfulness of God.。
Mitrash, to ponder, to stop, and to ask the question,。
what child is this?。
What is this?。
Who is this Christmas child that we are celebrating,。
that we are worshiping?。
What does this child bring you, bring to your life?。
You see the parent, Matthew C., the son of David,。
continues until ultimately fulfilled。
in the life of Jesus Christ.。
You see Exodus, Moses come out of Egypt,。
having freedom, true freedom.。
You find the ultimate fulfillment in Christ.。
Exile, the tears of exile will be wiped out in Jesus Christ.。
We turn from exile.。
The true home that we find is in Jesus and no other.。
Our true home is found in Christ.。
Look around the world, as I said.。
All this unrest and all this crisis and pandemic continues.。
Sometimes in situation like this,。
we always say to ourselves or say to each other,。
I wanna move somewhere else, right?。
Have you ever thought about it?。
Move out of Chicago, then you will be safe, right?。
Move out of Chicago, move somewhere else,。
somewhere beautiful, right?。
Somewhere secure, and then you will be safe.。
The Bible is telling us the true home is found。
no other than in Jesus.。
When you have Jesus Christ in your life,。
then you will have eternity.。
That's what Mitrash is talking about.。
That's what Mitrash is saying.。
To stop and to ponder, who is this baby Jesus。
that we worship every Christmas?。
If you choose to trust in Jesus Christ,。
you will find the true security.。
Don't look anywhere else, look up.。
The child born in Christmas, he gives us the true freedom,。
the true Exodus, the true return, the true home.。
Lastly, as we close, I wanna go back。
to the very first sentence of the New Testament.。
We often miss this first verse.。
A record of genealogy of Jesus Christ,。
the son of David, the son of Abraham.。
In Greek, the original language of the New Testament,。
the record of genealogy is Bibliogenesis.。
Now, if you know a little bit about English,。
Bibliogenesis, Bibliogenesis,。
you find words that are sounding so similar.。
The book of Genesis, the first book of the New Testament,。
the first book of the entire Bible is the book of Genesis,。
the book of new beginning,。
because God created heaven and the earth.。
He created the entire cosmos.。
That is the original creation.。
But then the first sentence of the New Testament,。
it says Bibliogenesis, the book of Genesis,。
the real Genesis, the new creation,。
found in Jesus Christ.。
When we accept Jesus Christ as our Lord,。
when we follow Jesus Christ, we have new beginning,。
and this is the only true new beginning we need.。
Now, who is Jesus to you?。
Who is Christ to you?。
Stop and ponder.。
Put your trust in him.。
Put our trust in Christ that we'll find new beginning。
to live as the people of God, right?。
To be his sons and daughters,。
to have hope and security wherever we are,。
no matter how dark the world out there,。
we still have light because Jesus Christ is the true light.。
Let's all pray together.。
Oh God, we give you thanks。
for the fact that you are our true light.。
And in this first Christmas story,。
we see the hope that you offer to all of us。
in the name of Jesus Christ.。
Thank you for sending your son to be born in this world,。
to bear our suffering, to bear our struggles,。
to wipe out our tears, and to grant us true freedom,。
the true exodus, true return, true home.。
And I pray that all of us will put our trust anew in you.。
We'll again choose to trust in you,。
again choose to believe in you,。
and help each one of us to be your true son and daughter,。
to live by your word, to live by your scripture,。
to follow and obey your will.。
In this Christmas, we pray that you will continue。
to renew our hearts, renew our trust。
in our Lord Jesus Christ,。
and he will continue to lead our lives.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Well, God bless.。
