Thank you.。
Okay.。
So I have a friend named Grant,。
and I'm guessing most of us have a friend like this。
in your friend group.。
Grant is that one person in your friend group。
who is heads and shoulders, smarter and more successful。
than everybody else in your group.。
If you know who I'm talking about for yourself,。
think about them.。
Grant is a genius.。
Grant is very influential in his career.。
And this guy,。
we always joke that if you wanna feel bad about yourself,。
you should Google him。
because the number of podcasts he's on。
and the number of interviews he's been given。
and the number of lists in magazines。
that he's made it onto is a little sobering。
when you're like, "Oh, I'm about his age, that's great."。
And the reason Grant is successful and well-known。
is because Grant is an entrepreneur.。
So he opens businesses, he runs small businesses,。
and he's been doing this since he was 16,。
since he was maybe 14.。
I am not kidding.。
When he was in his teenage years,。
this guy opened a thrift store in Hyde Park。
that is still running to this day.。
He's also written books.。
He's made it into magazines.。
And right now he runs a company。
that has more than 50 employees.。
It's a little insane.。
Now, one thing Grant always talks about。
when you talk to him about his businesses。
is he'll talk a lot about projects。
that they will dump or not do。
because of the fact。
that it doesn't fit their mission statement.。
And this is something he says he's been doing。
ever since he started opening that thrift store。
when he was in his teenage years.。
So Grant would tell you that when you open a business,。
your mission statement is the very foundation。
of what you do.。
And you don't just have a mission statement。
because it's fun to put there.。
You don't have a mission statement。
just because you need something to pitch to investors.。
You have a mission statement。
because when an opportunity pops up,。
you can compare it to what you first set out to do。
and decide whether or not it's something。
you're going to do based on that.。
So if you're opening a burger restaurant。
and your mission statement。
is to provide the best dining experience。
with the most unique burgers in Chicago,。
you're probably not going to jump。
on the chicken sandwich trend when it comes around.。
You're probably not going to have a Taco Tuesday special。
because it doesn't match your mission statement.。
You're supposed to stay on point.。
Everything you do is born out of that mission statement.。
It's a foundational piece.。
It's like the cement upon which you build a tower.。
And he tells me that every single one of his businesses,。
past and present, has always and will always。
have a very strict and defined mission statement。
because otherwise you're going to end up wasting your time.。
So I want us to think today。
about what is your mission statement?。
Now, I know people are not like businesses.。
We don't sit down and decide that we're going to。
build a person and then decide what they're about。
and what their core values are.。
Most of us probably don't have an index card。
with our mission statement written down on it.。
I'm guessing most of us don't have an elevator pitch。
for who we are as a person.。
That we can just recite at any moment, right?。
But the thing is that each and every single one of us。
has a mission statement,。
whether or not we understand that we do.。
Even if we don't think we do,。
there is still something that is that foundation。
that drives every action you do,。
every day that you spend your time,。
it drives the decisions you make.。
So I want you to pause for a minute。
and think about what that would be for you.。
What is the thing that drives you?。
What gets you out of bed every single morning?。
If I were to distill every action and motivation。
and every task you do and the way you spend your time。
and the people you hang out with,。
if I were to distill that。
into some kind of a mission statement or a purpose,。
what would that be for you?。
Think about that for a minute.。
Maybe your mission statement is,。
I want to provide for my family, right?。
Maybe it's, I need to make enough money。
so that I can buy a house。
and have enough money for groceries。
and send my kids to college.。
Maybe that's your mission statement.。
Maybe you're in college right now。
and your mission statement is to either survive。
or get out with good grades。
and be in a position to get a good paying job.。
Maybe you're in high school。
and you want to please your parents with good grades.。
Whatever it is,。
each of us has a mission statement right now.。
And if you can't define it,。
that's probably a good indicator。
that you've just kind of been going with the flow。
and maybe the thing you're building your life on。
is being developed without you knowing it.。
That's not a good policy.。
Today, we're actually going to discuss a time in the Bible。
when Jesus was asked。
about what the greatest moral commandment is.。
And Jesus gives an answer。
that I think fits into this mission statement box。
really perfectly.。
And his answer tells a lot about why he's there.。
And it also shows us a lot about。
why we make the decisions we make.。
And whether you're in this room as a believer,。
whether you're in this room as somebody。
who's grown up in the church。
and you're not sure if you're a believer,。
maybe you're here or you're watching online。
and you're not a Christian, but you're intrigued.。
I want you to be thinking。
about what that mission statement is for you.。
And as we're talking about what Jesus endorses,。
think about how that compares and contrasts.。
We'll do that as we go along.。
Let's pray that God would bless our time today.。
God, we come to you today。
knowing that there is a lot。
of really difficult things in the world.。
We know there's a lot wrong with existence right now,。
from natural disasters to oppression to injustice.。
God, we know and are fully aware of the fact。
that we don't live in a world that is easy。
or oftentimes fair.。
But God, it is all the more because of that。
that we thank you for your goodness.。
And we thank you that you love us,。
even though we don't deserve it,。
even though it's not something that we earned,。
it's not something that we should have.。
And honestly, the fact that a God like you cares about us,。
even in the slightest bit, should astound us。
and should gobsmack us into silence for minutes at a time.。
We love you, God.。
We ask that as we explore this topic,。
you would be moving in our hearts,。
whether we already believe in you。
and call you our God or not,。
would you be working in us。
so that we might experience your love。
and so that we might be moved in a certain way。
so that we know you more and are able to have lives。
that please you and look like you even more.。
We pray this in your name, God.。
Amen.。
Now, the passage we're gonna be in today is Matthew 22.。
So you can open up your Bibles。
or turn on your Bibles if that's your speed。
and turn to that passage.。
I'll be in the, oh gosh,。
I can't remember if I'm in the ESV or the NIV today.。
You choose.。
But before we read the passage,。
I wanna give us a little bit of background。
into where we're dropping in.。
So back in Jesus' day, right,。
the temple was the epicenter of religious life.。
And since everybody in that day and age。
kinda had to be religious,。
the temple was kind of the center。
of everybody's life in general.。
So I want you to think about a sprawling religious building。
and I want you to think about people。
who are there all the time, okay?。
You would pass by this place on your way into the market.。
When you're going about your dealings and visiting friends,。
you would pass by this place.。
You would see people going in to make sacrifices,。
going in to talk to the Pharisees.。
You would be here often, right?。
And so at that day and age,。
there were people whose entire job it was。
to teach the law and the scriptures and the prophets。
at this building, at this temple.。
And these Pharisees or these lawyers or Sadducees,。
whatever you wanna call them,。
they would be out in the temple courts preaching,。
but most of the time,。
they're doing it because they want a following.。
They want popularity.。
They want political power.。
At that day and age,。
political power and religious power。
were basically the same thing.。
So these guys are out there。
and they're preaching and telling people。
how they should live their life,。
what the scriptures mean,。
and they're usually doing it。
because they want to have a following.。
They want people to listen to them.。
They want people to know their name and respect them.。
They want to improve their rank, right?。
So these guys are essentially people。
who just want the clout.。
If they were alive today,。
they would probably be Twitch streaming.。
That's a bit of a stretch, but trust me.。
They do this kind of stuff.。
They're in it for their name.。
They're in it for the political power.。
And another way that they decide。
and they realize they can get that power。
is by debating people.。
So let's say you're Bob the Pharisee。
and you out there。
and you're preaching to a bunch of people。
and people are following you.。
And then Dave over here。
sees that you have such a following.。
Well, if Dave can call you out on something,。
if Dave can debate you。
and make you look like an idiot,。
Dave is going to get more popular than Bob.。
Dave is going to get those fans。
because he's shown everybody。
that Bob doesn't know what he's talking about.。
So this kind of thing was something you would hear。
and see all the time.。
You'd have crowds of people coming to these people。
and listening to them.。
Now, Jesus, at this point in his ministry,。
Jesus does have clout.。
Jesus is very popular.。
People like this guy.。
People are murmuring about maybe he's the Messiah.。
Maybe this guy is the one。
who is fabled to come and save our people.。
They're listening to him.。
And you know what that does?。
That paints a target on his back.。
That makes people want to seek him out and debate him,。
make him look dumb.。
If they can just trap him in some kind of a mistake。
or make him say something that isn't actually biblical,。
or maybe it's unpopular culturally,。
they can take that popularity and power for themselves。
and invalidate him.。
So this is the situation。
and the sort of arena that Jesus enters。
when he's in the temple courts and he's teaching.。
So we're gonna start in verse 34。
and we're gonna go to 40.。
So hearing that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees,。
that's basically a different political party。
or different religious party,。
the Pharisees got together。
and one of them, an expert in the law,。
the smartest among them,。
decided that he was going to test Jesus.。
And he tested him with this question.。
(clears throat)。
Teacher, what is the greatest commandment of the law?。
Now, maybe this guy is thinking。
that he can get Jesus to say something wrong.。
Maybe he's thinking he can get Jesus。
to say something unpopular.。
Whatever it is, this guy does not have positive intent.。
This guy ain't being sincere.。
He's trying to trip Jesus up.。
Here's how Jesus answers.。
And most of us probably know this passage pretty well.。
Jesus replied, "Love the Lord your God。
"with all your heart, with all your soul,。
"and with all your mind."。
This is the first and the greatest commandment.。
And the second is like it.。
"Love your neighbor as yourself."。
All the law and the prophets。
hang on these two commandments.。
Jesus is actually quoting Deuteronomy here.。
So, excuse me, he is pulling his answer。
from scriptures that they all would have known.。
So he's saying, "Love the Lord your God。
"with all your heart, soul, and mind,。
"and then love your neighbor as yourself."。
That's the greatest commandment.。
So Brock, you're talking about mission statement.。
Why do you turn to this passage?。
I understand that it's not as if Jesus says,。
"Hey guys, this is my mission statement."。
This is not what's written on Jesus's。
about page on his website, okay?。
I recognize that he doesn't actually come out。
and say in his many words,。
"This is my mission statement," or "This is my purpose."。
But the reason I like to look at it through this lens。
is because it does seem to be like something。
that is very important and something Jesus sees。
as really meaningful.。
What do I mean by that?。
This story, most of you probably know Jesus answering,。
"Love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
"soul, mind, and strength," right?。
And then love your neighbor as yourself.。
It's because this story seems to be。
in three of the gospels, right?。
It seems to be in three different accounts。
of Jesus's ministry.。
We have it in Matthew, right?。
We have it in Mark and we have it in Luke.。
We're looking at Matthew today,。
but it's also in these other accounts of Jesus.。
So when you see things that are in multiple gospel accounts,。
you should probably take notice.。
So here are two options when we see multiple accounts。
of this story, right?。
We say either all three of these writers。
found this as important。
and wanted to put it into their book.。
Or there's a second option。
that maybe this happened multiple times.。
Maybe there were three instances。
where Jesus gave this answer.。
So let's look at each of the actual scriptures.。
I won't go into detail.。
You can look at them yourself in your own time.。
There's a Wikipedia page that lists all of them in one.。
You don't have to go to several different webpages.。
Matthew, the one we just looked at,。
has a lawyer testing Jesus.。
It explicitly tells us that the Pharisees。
are conniving together and they're plotting something.。
In Mark, it's a little different.。
In Mark, there is a sincere scribe.。
It says that there's a scribe,。
so somebody who writes down。
and his whole job is to copy the scriptures.。
It says that in Mark, there's this scribe guy。
who's kind of sitting on the sidelines。
and he's like, "Huh, this Jesus guy,。
he's answering really well.。
He's giving good answers."。
So then he asks Jesus,。
"What's the greatest commandment in the law?"。
Not to test him,。
but because that's what he's working on 24/7.。
He's like, "What is the most important part。
of this whole thing that I'm transcribing all day?"。
And in that account, Jesus says to the scribe,。
"Hey, you're close to the kingdom of God, man.。
Keep on, you're doing great."。
And then in Luke, it's similar to in Matthew。
where people are trying to test him,。
but Jesus doesn't actually answer himself.。
He says, "Well, what do you say it is?"。
He turns a question into a question.。
He says, "You answer this for me."。
So what is it?。
You could believe that all three of these authors。
remembered this instance differently,。
that it was one event。
and three different writers remembered it differently.。
That's a possibility.。
But what I believe, what I think seems to be the case。
since there are so many different,。
interesting, unique details,。
is that I think Jesus used this answer often.。
It seems that Jesus had this answer prepared。
for when people asked him,。
"What is the greatest moral commandment?。
What is the most important of these things?"。
You kind of get the sense that Jesus had this answer ready.。
So it seems important to him.。
And I think it fits the idea of a mission statement。
really, really well.。
And we're gonna have to go look through。
what he's actually talking about here now.。
First of all, Jesus says,。
"You are to love God with all of your heart."。
That's your emotion.。
That's the things that you feel.。
You are to love God with all of your soul,。
all of who you are.。
Think about the way that you define yourself.。
I am Brock, I'm a graphic designer.。
That's my identity, right?。
Jesus is saying your soul, all that you are as a person,。
all of your identity and all of who you are,。
God is worthy of that.。
All of your mind, your intelligence.。
How many of you have ever found a new hobby。
and you've gotten so into it。
that you learn the minutia and the details。
and you're on the subreddit looking at it every day。
and you are learning so much about this hobby or this thing.。
And then eventually you just kind of lose interest。
because you've beaten it, you've conquered it,。
you've figured it out, right?。
Jesus is saying that God is worthy。
of all of your intelligence.。
There is no point where you can exhaust that。
in your exploration of him.。
Your strength, this isn't in the Matthew version。
we just read, this is in some of those other versions,。
so we're gonna include it as well.。
This is your passion.。
This is the oomph with which you live your life.。
When you're motivated to do something。
and it's outside of the ordinary,。
it's not what you just do with your everyday life.。
When you put forth effort towards something,。
that's your strength.。
Jesus is saying that your heart, your soul,。
your mind, your strength, all of it。
is worth being thrown at God.。
God is worthy of all of it.。
Now I want you to think about your mission statement。
from before.。
Even if you don't have it completely filled out,。
maybe you're just like, ah, I kind of seem security driven.。
Maybe I seem a little bit driven by my own fame。
or popularity, or maybe I seem money driven。
or career or status driven, whatever it is.。
Ask yourself, is the mission statement。
that you currently live your life by。
worthy of all of that?。
Most of us recognize when a person。
puts all of themselves towards a pursuit.。
Sometimes we applaud it, right?。
You get basketball stars whose only goal is to win.。
And when we have them on our fantasy draft, we like that.。
But in real life, we don't really believe。
that that's the healthiest thing, right?。
We look at that and go, that's a little whack.。
To put all of yourself into one thing,。
whether it is success, whether it's status,。
is gonna leave you in a bad spot.。
Jesus is saying and affirming that all of you。
is worth throwing towards God.。
That if you're looking for something。
that is meaningful enough for everything in your life,。
it's God.。
I want you to think about if your current mission statement。
lives up to that.。
So love God with everything.。
Here's the second part.。
Jesus says, love your neighbor as yourself.。
Now this is interesting, right?。
He's asked what is the greatest commandment?。
And he gives two.。
He doesn't leave this out.。
That's weird, right?。
He could have just left it at love God with everything。
and that could have been it, but he doesn't.。
He goes into more detail.。
He includes and love your neighbor as yourself.。
Now, this is the part where if you're not a believer,。
if you don't actually consider God as your God,。
you don't look at Jesus and say, yeah, that's my Lord.。
You probably would sign onto this.。
You would probably say, hey, I can get behind that.。
Right?。
I might not like a lot of the rules。
or a lot of the things that tells me not to do in the Bible,。
but this part, this seems good.。
This seems fine, right?。
I can sign off on this.。
I can say that this is a good thing,。
even if I don't vibe with everything else in the Bible.。
Here's the reason Jesus says。
that they are intertwined though, right?。
Jesus says that these two commandments are very intertwined。
because you are not loving God。
if you are not loving your neighbor.。
I'll say that again.。
You are not loving God if you are not loving your neighbor.。
And conversely, you cannot love your neighbor。
if you are not loving God.。
You cannot love your neighbor if you are not loving God.。
I'll say those two one more time.。
You are not loving God if you're not loving your neighbor.。
End of the story.。
You cannot love your neighbor if you aren't loving God.。
These two things, these two concepts are so intertwined。
that you can't have one thing without the other.。
I can't say to God, you're really great.。
I like that you died for me.。
I'm gonna make you my God,。
but I really, really hate other people.。
I'm just not gonna deal with them.。
You can't do that.。
And Jesus is also putting forth the idea here。
that you can't actually love your neighbor as yourself。
if you are not first loving him.。
This is an interesting idea, right?。
For those of you who are in Summit, you might remember this.。
I do, as Pastor Mark said, I do youth ministry here。
and we work with students in the church。
and students in the neighborhood.。
And this past semester, we actually went over this topic.。
We went over this verse。
and we were specifically looking at the idea。
of loving other people as yourself, right?。
Now, where we're at in Summit,。
where we're at with the kinds of discussions。
we have in our youth group,。
it's really interesting because rather than preach,。
we just kind of discuss it and we talk about it.。
And we're at a spot where a lot of people。
are willing to talk about the things。
that maybe don't make a ton of sense to them,。
or they're willing to say, this doesn't make sense to me.。
That seems like craziness.。
Let's talk about why that is.。
And when we were talking about this idea,。
we had a young woman in our discussion who is whip smart。
and she's awesome, but she immediately locked on。
to some idea about this concept.。
She said, okay, loving your neighbor as yourself.。
And as we're talking about what that actually means,。
as we're talking about what that actually looks like,。
she goes, that is a terrible life policy.。
She identifies, she identified that this was not going。
to put you ahead, right?。
Loving your neighbor as yourself,。
giving them your spot in line,。
preferring the things they want over what you want,。
giving your time and money to other people。
instead of using it for yourself.。
Like to the point where you would actually prefer。
other people's good over your good all the time.。
That does not make sense.。
Can you even build a life on that?。
Can you actually get anywhere with that?。
Aren't you always going to be left in need or wanting。
if you actually do that?。
And here's the thing, she's right.。
She's really onto something there.。
There is no reason to love other people。
more than you love yourself。
if you do not have God in the equation, right?。
If you are a just random person here by accident,。
making it alone and making it in your life alone。
and you're watching out for number one,。
there really isn't any reason。
to value other people so highly.。
There's definitely a reason to care for other people.。
There's a reason to be kind for them.。
There's a reason to love them, sure,。
but to love them more than you love yourself,。
love them as yourself, what?。
That makes no sense.。
This commandment only makes sense。
if there is first a God who has loved you so much。
that it would be crazy not to love your neighbor。
as yourself.。
If the God of the Bible, right?。
If the God that is Jesus actually loves you,。
if he actually died for you,。
if he actually cares for you,。
if he's actually watching out for you so much。
that there will never be anything you need。
that he will not provide,。
whether that's physical, mental,。
whether that's financial,。
whether that's emotional or relational,。
if there really is a God out there。
who cares that deeply about you,。
it would be crazy not to love your neighbor as yourself.。
If you've been given everything,。
why would you not want to share that kind of everything。
with other people?。
These commandments are intertwined.。
For one final time,。
I want you to think about the mission statement。
that you thought about at the beginning.。
I want you to think about what your life is defined by.。
An easy way to do this is to think about your time.。
How much time do you spend doing this thing。
versus that thing?。
Or how much of your thought life。
do you devote to something?。
Is your thought life always focused on the next promotion?。
Are the things coursing through your mind。
how you're going to get to the next step financially,。
that next stage?。
Are you consumed with another person。
and their thoughts of you?。
Is that where you get yourself worth?。
What are the things that drive you and motivate you?。
What is your mission statement?。
The reason I wanted to talk about this today。
is because what Jesus is putting forth。
is the only mission statement,。
the only foundation that is going to be satisfying.。
If you live your life Saturday to Saturday,。
exhausted throughout the week,。
just looking for the next moment。
that you're gonna get for yourself.。
If you live your life looking for purpose or meaning。
and feeling like there's just none of it.。
If you live your life feeling lonely。
and exhausted of being lonely,。
what Jesus is saying here and putting forth。
is something that is going to matter to you.。
It's something that's gonna fill you up.。
And think about what your life would look like then.。
You're not only fulfilled,。
you're also fulfilling others.。
You're showing them,。
there's a God who loves you.。
And I love you because he first loved me.。
I get to show you that I can value you。
more than I value myself,。
because God valued me more than he valued himself.。
Everybody's life has some sort of foundation,。
some sort of mission statement.。
Your actions don't happen randomly.。
There is a value behind what you do.。
And what Jesus is saying is that。
if you want to be fulfilled,。
if you want to be happy,。
if you want to know that other people are also loved,。
if you want to be able to love other people。
more than yourself,。
you have to know that first you are to love God。
with everything.。
There is not a lot of things in this world。
that are actually worthwhile.。
The older you get, the more you realize that.。
So much of what you do and care about now is dust later,。
or doesn't matter years down the road.。
But what Jesus is saying is that this does.。
And if you can't say with honesty。
that God has changed your heart to the point where。
you are able to love other people more than yourself,。
he's saying that you can have that,。
that all you have to do is love him first.。
Because the truth is he's loved you before that.。
Let's pray.。
God, we thank you that these are not just words。
you're telling us,。
that it's not just some commandment you're giving to us。
and saying, good luck with it.。
God, we thank you that this is something that Jesus did,。
that this is something you did first.。
That Jesus himself loved God with all of his heart,。
soul, mind, and strength, all of his emotion,。
all of his intelligence, all of who he was,。
all of his passion.。
And that because of that,。
he was also able to love his neighbor。
more than he loved himself.。
That when he's in the garden of Gethsemane,。
on his face, sobbing and sweating blood,。
because he's terrified of the cross,。
that he prays to you and says, your will be done,。
and comes to the conclusion that he still loves his neighbor。
more than he loves himself.。
Thank you that rather than running,。
he turned and he walked towards the cross of his own will,。
because he loves us.。
God, would you give us a heart like that?。
Would you help us to live for something。
that actually matters instead of the rat race。
that this world is?。
Instead of all the things we could pour our heart and mind。
and soul and strength into that is going to go away soon.。
God, give us the wisdom to see that this。
is how we should be spending our life。
and that this is something that is going to fulfill us.。
And give us the conviction to follow through on that.。
Not just to believe it's the case and say, that's nice,。
and I'll do that on Sundays,。
but to actually wake up every morning,。
so thankful and grateful that you love us.。
