Well, why don't we say a happy new year。
to the neighbors next to you, in your own language.。
All right?。
And then we'll begin our sermon series.。
All right?。
Great, all right, all right.。
That's cool.。
We do have some refreshments out there, right?。
Yeah, I hope those guys won't devour everything.。
(laughs)。
And save some for us, all right?。
So it's very, very happy you come in.。
There's a photo booth you can use.。
Right after service, you can take some pictures。
or some family pictures with your friends, okay?。
So happy to celebrate China's New Year with some of you.。
We will continue our sermon series on The Chosen,。
and this is part two.。
And I have picked episode two of season one.。
How many of you checked out The Chosen since last week?。
Please do, please do, all right?。
We will send out the link in the social media group,。
and you can watch it for free.。
And Josh remind me, not only all the episode。
have the captions for different languages,。
including Chinese or different languages,。
but also there's audio, right?。
There's audio for different languages as well.。
I'm not sure how I feel if Jesus speaks in Mandarin.。
Not quite sure, yeah.。
But anyways, but in Chosen, Jesus speaks English,。
which is kind of strange, right?。
Because the original language he spoke。
was Aramaic or Hebrew, right?。
In any case, it is a well-crafted TV series,。
and it's become so popular.。
No matter you like the episodes。
or you like how they craft the story or not,。
I think watching it will help you picture。
what life was like in times of Jesus,。
because all the scenes that they pick,。
all the, you know, the houses。
or the background they pick are pretty realistic.。
It's very realistic.。
If you understand history,。
you understand the historical background.。
They actually did a good job.。
So watch The Chosen and think about the Bible。
and your faith.。
Let's see, last time, we were at。
episode two, episode one.。
Now, episode two, let me give you a summary,。
just highlight.。
Now, remember episode one,。
it was Mary Madeline was tortured by many demons,。
and Jesus finally cast out all the demons。
and free her from the tyranny of Satan, of the demons.。
And then she is now free,。
and now Nicodemus, the respected rabbi,。
is trying to find out what happened to Mary Madeline,。
because remember, Nicodemus, the rabbi,。
was being called upon to minister to Mary Madeline。
when she was tortured and possessed by the demons,。
and Nicodemus failed to cast out all the demons.。
But that's how the story goes.。
It's not in the Bible, right?。
But it's kind of interesting.。
You try to creatively, you know,。
woven all the stories together.。
But in any case, Nicodemus failed,。
and he wanted to find out what happened to Mary Madeline,。
and who cast out the demons, which he could not.。
And now, back to Mary, in episode two,。
she prepares the first Shabbat meal,。
and she has invited some of her friends。
and those who are socially outcast,。
the blind, the disabled, and two of the disciples of Jesus,。
being invited to the home of Mary Madeline.。
And of course, at the end, the surprise guests show up。
at the first Shabbat of Mary Madeline, right?。
And that surprise guest is Jesus, right?。
Jesus show up at the end of the episode.。
Now, the key issue here I want you to think about。
is the Bible background.。
Why they were so concerned about casting out the demons,。
like miracles that is done by Jesus.。
Why did the Pharisees was so upset。
or so concerned about who is doing what,。
and why were there miracles?。
They want to authenticate all the miracles.。
No, you get that kind of sense。
in the opening chapters of all gospels.。
When Jesus came out publicly,。
he did a lot of miracles, signs and wonders,。
including casting out the demons.。
And then the Pharisees from Jerusalem。
came out to Jesus and challenged him.。
They are trying to authenticate in whose authority。
Jesus did all those things, right?。
Why did they so concerned about all of this miracles。
and they want to authenticate。
whether someone is using the authority of God,。
the name of God properly?。
Because the Jews in those days,。
they thought if true miracle happened in our time,。
that means the kingdom of God is finally here.。
It's finally here.。
Remember the Bible background before the New Testament,。
there was an Old Testament, right?。
Between the Old Testament and the New Testament,。
there were several hundred years。
that God seems to be silent.。
What we call the silence period.。
It's about three to 400 years.。
We call it intertestamental period between the old and new.。
And the Jewish people, they were waiting and yearning。
for God to come and to arrive.。
The king will arrive, finally will restore his kingdom,。
the long lost kingdom of David.。
And when the new Messiah,。
when the new king arrive at the scene,。
he will arrive with signs and wonders。
and casting out the demons.。
And that's why the New Testament opens。
with signs and wonders done by the Messiah, Jesus Christ.。
Now we were all in the Bible study, right?。
The gospel of Mark.。
We just finished chapter nine, right?。
We just finished chapter nine.。
And the first eight chapters were all about the signs。
and miracles that done by Jesus.。
And, you know, reading between the line,。
you see the Pharisees and the authorities from Jerusalem。
is trying to check them out, right?。
To challenge Jesus and to ask Jesus by who's the authority,。
you are doing all of this, right?。
And of course, for those who are unbelieving, they resist.。
They resist to acknowledge the divine authority Jesus had.。
And they try to blame him for casting out demons。
with some other power, maybe demonic power, right?。
In fact, in chapter 11 of the gospel of Luke,。
Jesus said, after he cast out demons,。
and the authorities, the Pharisees,。
the religious teachers from Jerusalem challenged him,。
by whose power you're doing this, Jesus said,。
but if I am casting out demons by the power of God,。
then the kingdom of God has arrived among you.。
Jesus speaks here, he says, you know,。
because I'm casting out demons with the authority of God,。
you know, the kingship of God has already arrived.。
And because of me, when you see me work,。
when you see me saying things and teaching and preaching,。
you know the power of God has already arrived in our midst.。
And that's what he said here.。
The kingdom of God has already arrived.。
Pay attention to the tense here.。
It's not a past tense, it's not future tense,。
it's a present perfect tense, right?。
Has already arrived among you.。
And you better acknowledge that because of power of Jesus.。
Now this episode, try to, you know, intervere,。
interconnect all the stories together。
and talking about the first Shabbat。
prepared by Mary Madeline, all right?。
Of course that is not in the Bible.。
The Bible never recorded, you know,。
Mary Madeline preparing for Shabbat,。
preparing for a meal on the seventh day of the week.。
But we know that is the background。
because it's Jewish people.。
For them, the most important thing is the Shabbat meal.。
The most important thing.。
Even today, modern Israelis,。
they will celebrate Shabbat。
and they will take it very, very seriously, right?。
It's kind of like those of you。
who have Chinese heritage, right?。
You have Chinese heritage。
and you have that cultural background。
and you want to celebrate Chinese New Year, right?。
Some of you do, right?。
We don't.。
I don't.。
Because we just too lazy.。
So my son is back for the weekend。
and all we did is that we went out for lunch yesterday。
and we found a restaurant that is less crowded.。
So we had lunch, right?。
And that's all, right?。
I don't give them money.。
I wish they can give me money.。
But we lost kind of the Chinese heritage.。
But for many of you, because of the cultural background,。
you still take it seriously, right?。
And that's why you've got some refreshment out there.。
That's why you've got some, you know,。
decoration or the red color, right?。
That you have.。
This is only red shirt, kind of red shirt that I have.。
So I save it for Chinese New Year.。
But you know, for the Jewish people,。
Shabbat meal or the Shabbat。
is a super important sign and ritual.。
And where does it come from?。
It comes from the second book of the Old Testament.。
Remember the first book is Genesis.。
Second book is Exodus.。
Exodus chapter 20, here this entire passage。
is the 10 commandments.。
Now, why there were 10 commandments?。
Because when God saved the Israelites out of Egypt,。
the land of slavery,。
he redeemed them and saved them by grace。
and saved his people and out of Egypt,。
they passed through wilderness and finally they came。
to the first most important mountain called Mount Sinai.。
And they were there and God show up in clouds and thunders,。
clouds and thunders and lightning and fire。
at the top of the mountain.。
And at the foot of the mountain,。
the people of God just redeemed.。
And God spoke to them because I save you by grace.。
I led you out of the land of slavery, land of sin.。
Now you become my people and I give you the principles。
to live by because you have a new identity as my people,。
as the new people, that's why you live differently.。
And God spoke the 10 words, the 10 principles,。
what we call the 10 commandments.。
And those commandments are the basic constitutional。
principles lived by the new people of God.。
And in the fourth commandment,。
it speaks of the Shabbat or the Sabbath.。
Now this is super important.。
Chapter 20, verse eight and following.。
It says, God said to the new people of God,。
remember to observe the Sabbath day by keeping it holy.。
You have six days each week for your ordinary work,。
but the seventh day is a Shabbat day or Sabbath day of rest,。
dedicated to the Lord your God.。
On that day, no one in your household may do any work.。
This includes you, your sons and daughters,。
your male and female servants, your livestock,。
any foreigners living among you.。
For in six days, the Lord God made the heavens,。
the earth, the sea and everything in them.。
But on the seventh day, he rested.。
That is why the Lord God plus the Sabbath day,。
the Shabbat day and set it apart as holy.。
Now this is very interesting.。
Let me point out something here.。
The Shabbat, what is interesting, the Sabbath is time.。
It's time.。
All right.。
From a particular time to another particular time.。
You know, time is being set apart here, being set aside。
and being seen as something more important。
than all those times, the ordinary time.。
That's very interesting.。
Right, the first thing God told the people of God,。
God said to them, God said to us,。
there was certain time period of the week。
that you have to see it differently。
from all those other times, right?。
Monday night, Tuesday night, Wednesday afternoon,。
those are ordinary time.。
And there's a special time during the week。
that God sees it as important.。
And he said, remember to keep that holy.。
Now people of God are to refrain from working,。
the normal, ordinary work, right?。
And then on the seventh day, what we call Shabbat, right?。
They stop working and set it aside。
and keep that apart from all the other time.。
Now what does the word Shabbat or Sabbath mean?。
What does it mean?。
It means stop, right?。
Cease, ceasing, ceasing to do something。
you have already done.。
Just stop doing this and then you do something else.。
Well, as I said, modern Israelis。
would take Shabbat seriously,。
especially those who are on the orthodox side,。
and they will stay home and they would rest.。
They would go to synagogue to worship,。
and they will have, of course, the Shabbat meal。
as their family time, they enjoy it.。
You go to modern Israel on the Shabbat day,。
which begins on Friday at sundown,。
the streets are suddenly quiet,。
no cars traveling, no one driving,。
no one on the street.。
Those people you usually find on the street,。
they are on the way to somewhere else.。
They may go to a synagogue,。
they may go to a Western wall to pray, to worship, right?。
So what an interesting social phenomenon, right?。
On Shabbat, they just cease everything。
and go to synagogue and stay home for Shabbat meal.。
Now the Sabbath is important because it is the sign,。
the indication of who you are.。
And for the people of God in Israel,。
for the Old Testament people,。
as the people of God, Shabbat, Sabbath,。
is a special sign of their relationship with God。
because God has entered a covenant,。
sort of a serious agreement with them.。
God, Yahweh, and the people of God,。
and between them, there's a covenant,。
there's a relationship.。
And God said, "One of the signs that you show the world,。
"you show yourself, is to stop working。
"and you come to worship me.。
"You rest so that I can work," right?。
To acknowledge my kingship,。
to acknowledge that you are in control。
and I am not in control.。
That is the most important sign in the Bible.。
And according to Jewish tradition,。
Shabbat begins a few minutes before sundown.。
There was some rabbis in Jesus' day,。
they said, "How do you know how to tell time?"。
Today we have the Apple Watch, we have the clock, right?。
We have the internet to tell us the world clock, right?。
What time it is right now.。
But for those people in Jesus' day,。
they didn't have a watch,。
so those rabbis were discussing。
when exactly does the Shabbat begin?。
And some of the literature tells us。
the exact time to begin Shabbat。
is when three stars appear in the night sky.。
So they observe the stars and the moon, right?。
They find three stars appearing in the sky.。
That's when Shabbat begins.。
And you see it's working.。
Remember, Shabbat or Sabbath means stop, right?。
And they just drop everything, right?。
They don't even cook.。
They don't even cook, right?。
One of the most interesting experience。
that we have when we go to Israel,。
when I lead church groups to Israel,。
is that sometimes we'd stay in the hotel, right?。
And Friday night, when Friday night comes,。
and all through Saturday for 24 hours,。
the hotel kitchen is closed, right?。
So what are we gonna eat, right?。
What are we gonna eat?。
We eat the leftover.。
Because what they do is that they leave the steamer on,。
and all those trays of food are being heat up, right?。
So they don't do any work in Shabbat, right?。
Because starting a fire or electricity is considered work.。
So they turn it on on Friday and leave it on for 24 hours,。
and that's all you eat, right?。
So Thursday night, whatever you eat,。
you probably will eat the same thing Friday night, right?。
And then Friday breakfast becomes Saturday breakfast,。
because they take this seriously.。
And in the entire Bible, anyone in the nation of Israel,。
if they fail to observe Shabbat,。
if they fail to observe Shabbat,。
that will show that this thing or this respect。
for the special relationship between God and Israel.。
Like for married couples, right?。
Some of us are married couples.。
If one side, with one person,。
trash some of the symbols of the relationship,。
trash it, not losing it, not unintentionally,。
but if you trash it, some of the symbols,。
like wedding ring, certificate, right?。
Or something that is important between the two people,。
if you intentionally trash it,。
that means you show disdain toward that relationship。
and toward the person in that relationship.。
And that is what Shabbat becomes.。
It becomes a sign to tell you,。
that tell ourselves and tell the world。
that God is important, right?。
God is important.。
So the Jewish people have already respected this tradition。
throughout the history,。
because they understand it's not just a commandment.。
And this commandment rests on。
how God order the entire universe.。
Now we read this passage, Exodus chapter 20.。
It says you have to remember this day,。
to observe this day, and then guard it, to keep it holy.。
You know, I like that word, guarding.。
You know, guarding is actually used for military context.。
It's like a soldier trying to watch out。
for enemies approaching, standing on the watchtower.。
You know, you're always ready and self-disciplined, right?。
It's not a come and go.。
You guard it and you keep it,。
because it's so important, right?。
It's not by accident.。
To guard the day.。
Now this passage is based on how God work, right?。
Verse 10, seven day, right?。
Seven day, or six days each week for your ordinary work,。
but seven day is the Shabbat day of rest,。
dedicated to Yahweh, the Lord your God.。
On that day, no one in your household may do any work.。
Now it's actually referring to the book of Genesis,。
the first chapter.。
The first chapter of Genesis from verse,。
chapter one, verse one to chapter two, verse three.。
We recorded how God work in the entire week.。
Let me read this passage, chapter two, verse one.。
So the creation of the heavens and the earth。
and everything in them was completed.。
On the seventh day, God had finished his work of creation,。
and so he rested from all his work.。
And God blessed the seventh day and declare it holy,。
because it was on this day, on the day when he rested。
from all his work of creation.。
Now this entire creation week being recorded。
and being narrated from Genesis 1, 1,。
all the way up to chapter two, verse three.。
Now, of course the Bible is not interested。
in scientific stuff, right?。
Moses or people in those days,。
they didn't have iPhone, right?。
They didn't have iPad,。
they didn't have all these modern technology.。
They didn't even have electricity back then.。
So the creation week is not a scientific account.。
It is a spiritual account.。
It is a theological writing.。
It's more interested in theology.。
It's more interested to tell you who God is。
and who we are if we relate to God.。
So God's act of creation is being presented as one week,。
the work of one week, what we call six-day creation.。
Now, if you remember chapter one,。
day after day, day after day,。
talking about how God set up the cosmos.。
He set up the entire universe,。
and after six day of work, God rested from all his work.。
He rested on the seventh day.。
Now, we modern readers, we come before the Bible and say,。
"God rested."。
That's interesting, right?。
The eternal God would rest?。
Does it mean he is getting tired, right?。
Just like we get tired, right?。
After all day of studying, writing paper,。
or going to work, geez, we are so tired,。
and we just sit on our lazy boy, right?。
And sip a cup of wine or something,。
and then we want to rest, right?。
Now, in the ancient time,。
when people talked about God resting,。
it does not mean God is exhausted.。
It does not mean God is tired like we get tired.。
No, when the ancient people, the Bible people,。
when they talk about resting, God resting,。
they said, what they meant was,。
God enter into his temple, and he started to rule.。
It's actually going up and be seated on his throne.。
That is the meaning of God resting.。
So it's not because God is tired.。
God is going into his house, the temple,。
and inside the temple, there is one part in the temple,。
the very center of the temple, called Holy of Holies.。
And there you find the Ark of the Covenant.。
And the Ark of the Covenant is actually God's throne,。
God's own seat, his kingly seat.。
And he was sitting there, and that is what it meant,。
what it meant, God rested.。
So God rested means God enter into Holy of Holies,。
and God is in charge.。
God is now the king.。
He runs the entire universe.。
So God is in control.。
A modern analogy is that,。
how many of you have recently purchased a new computer?。
A new computer?。
There are some on sale in Costco, gaming PC, right?。
You can check it out.。
I mean, you buy a PC, or you buy a computer,。
and you move it to your house, right?。
And you open the box, right?。
You get the tower, and you get the monitor,。
you get the stand, and keyboard, and all that stuff, right?。
And then you plug in all the cables,。
and all the connections,。
and whatever would make the computer work.。
So you work a whole day in order to set up your workspace,。
right, to set up your work computer.。
And after you set them all up,。
plug in all the cables with electricity,。
and all that stuff, what do you do?。
Do you go to bed?。
No, you don't.。
You turn it on, right?。
And that's when you start to rule, right?。
You control it.。
And that's what it means when God enters。
His holy of holies.。
God rested.。
It means He controls everything.。
The entire universe, your life, your family,。
your career, your work, everything.。
So that's what this Shabbat commandment mean.。
It means honor the day.。
Honor this 24 hours.。
Keep that holy to worship God.。
What it means is that God is the one who is in control,。
not me.。
God is operating my life.。
God is orchestrating everything around me.。
God is in control every single thing。
from the greatest to the least.。
God is the king, God is the Lord.。
And after six days of labor, I've done enough.。
The Shabbat is telling you enough is enough.。
This is time for you to stop。
and come before the presence of God to worship Him.。
Because you know, ultimately,。
God is the one who controls everything,。
not you and not me.。
Do you ever find it interesting。
in the entire week of creation,。
God never set apart some things as holy.。
The entire creation of Genesis,。
God did not sanctify or set aside a tool。
or a vessel or a building or a piece of land.。
God never did that.。
In the entire creation week, God set aside time.。
God set aside time to be holy, to sanctify it.。
What is it?。
It's a period of time during the week.。
Now what it reminds us is that how we use our time。
tell us who we are.。
How we use our time, how we manage our time,。
tell ourselves and other people who our true God is.。
You know, we human beings, we live in time and space,。
concrete time and space, right?。
We watch the clock, right?。
We follow the clock.。
Sometimes we have to clock in and clock out for our work.。
Right?。
We live in time.。
And sometimes we are busy, right?。
Probably most of the time we are busy, right?。
And we don't have time to do this or to do that.。
But if we say we don't have time to worship God,。
to serve God, what it really means is that。
it's not that we don't have time.。
Because God is so very fair.。
Each one of us gets 24 hours a day, right?。
Nobody gets 26 hours, right?。
Nobody get more, nobody get less.。
The matter is whether we have time or not,。
it's not the matter.。
It's whether we have the priority right, right?。
What it really means when we say we don't have time。
is that we don't have the priority, right?。
Such and such does not have my priority, right?。
It's not number one.。
That's why we say we don't have time.。
Actually, we do have time.。
What goes wrong is our life priority.。
And Genesis 2 tells us, with Exodus 20,。
is that God is most important.。
God is most important.。
We rest and we come before God to worship Him.。
Now when we came to Christ, our view of time,。
or our perspective on time should change,。
should be modified, should be reconfigured。
in such a way that we will honor and keep that holy。
one day a week.。
And realize, because we realize that time。
is a gift of God, right?。
Don't you realize that?。
Some weeks ago, one of the guest speakers talks about。
young people, or relatively young people passed away,。
right, because of cancer, because of some terminal disease.。
This is tragic, right?。
And life is not in our control.。
Time is not in our control, right?。
And that's why the Bible tells us we have to value time。
because time is gifted by God.。
It's a sheer gift.。
And time is entrusted to us as treasure, and as money.。
Just like money, just like our investment,。
that we need to take care of it,。
and we need to manage it well.。
And the Bible, entire Bible, from the first page。
to the last page, it says, if God redeem us,。
if we know Christ is our Lord and Savior,。
then we are called to faithful management。
of all those good things God has given to us,。
and that includes time.。
How we manage our time, right?。
Now, with the resurrection of Jesus,。
of course, the calendar for Christians has changed.。
It's shifted from the seventh day to the first day.。
And why?。
Gospel of John, chapter 20, it says,。
early on the first day of the week,。
Mary Mellon found the empty tomb.。
On the first day of the week, Jesus rose from the dead.。
And the New Testament tells us,。
because Christ came and Christ is true Shabbat.。
Christ is a Shabbat.。
In Him, we find rest.。
In Him, we find the kinship of God。
because Jesus died on the cross,。
and He redeemed us from sin.。
And He was buried in the tomb for three days,。
and on the third day, He rose from the dead, right?。
He rose from the dead to give us new life and new hope.。
And that's what we have in Jesus.。
So the day of Shabbat gradually。
shift from the seventh day to the first day.。
And that's why we gather here, right?。
Right, whether it rains or it shines,。
we gather here because we acknowledge。
that only Jesus is our King.。
Shabbat, faithful management of time, right?。
Now, my questions toward the conclusion is,。
are these, there are some evaluation questions。
we need to ask ourselves.。
How often do I use Sunday, today,。
the day of worship, as an extension of six days of work?。
Right, from Monday to Saturday,。
oh, I got so much to do, right?。
That's okay, I'll use Sunday as the extension, right?。
I'll keep on doing stuff, right,。
to do my own thing on the day of rest,。
or on the day, the worst day of worship.。
How often do we do that?。
Yeah, we do that all the time, you know,。
including myself, right?。
Now, that does not mean we just don't do anything。
and sit on the sofa for 24 hours, right?。
But today, the day, the time of Shabbat。
is to be set aside, and the first priority。
is to worship God and to serve Him, right?。
To serve Him.。
To rest and to read scripture, to pray,。
to reflect on the past week,。
and to chart the course for the next week,。
for the coming week.。
And that's what Shabbat should be like.。
But how often do we use it as an extension。
of the six days of work, right?。
Let us repent and let us change.。
You pick up the Bible today,。
you know, think about God in a more deep way,。
to reflect on His word,。
to reflect on what God has done in our lives.。
And how do I honor the lost day in action?。
Question number two.。
How do I honor it, right?。
I show up to worship God, no matter what.。
To serve Him, no matter what.。
And how should I plan ahead the lost day。
so I can truly worship God, right?。
Remember what I said, the Jewish people,。
they would take time to prepare for Shabbat, right?。
It's not like, okay, I wake up this morning,。
I find out, oh, it's time to go to worship.。
Oh man, I didn't plan for it.。
But okay, let's go, right?。
Or I don't go.。
It just happened incidentally to us, right?。
No, Shabbat has to be prepared.。
Observe and keep it holy.。
That means we take action to guard it,。
to plan ahead, so that my time worshiping God。
will be pleasing to Him.。
Let us all do that.。
Why don't we close in prayer?。
And just remember that God is the King of the universe。
and He controls my life.。
And how should I honor Him with my time?。
Let's pray.。
Father, we give you thanks。
because you are the God of creation.。
Everything is in your hand,。
including all the details in our lives.。
We can rest in you because you rested.。
You rested in your holy of holies.。
You are ruling the entire universe.。
You are managing every details of our lives.。
So we rest in you.。
We don't have to over worry about things in our lives.。
We don't have to overwork。
because we know you are in control。
when things don't seem to be in control.。
We know that you can calm the storm,。
even though our life can be going through。
some stormy period of time.。
We know that you are our King.。
And thank you, Jesus, for loving us.。
And today we come before you and honor your kingship。
to worship and to serve you.。
And I pray that you will bless us the rest of the week,。
that we'll continue with our labor of six days,。
but we'll worship you in our attitude,。
worship you in our heart.。
And when we honor and observe the Shabbat,。
we know that you are always in control。
and you are indeed worthy of our praises and our worship.。
Thank you for calling us to be your people。
and help us to have wisdom how to manage our time well,。
because you are a good God.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Well, God bless you all and happy new year to all of you.。
And hopefully I'll see you next week.。
All right, make sure if you have time,。
join our Super Bowl party tonight.。
You can just bring some stuff。
and we can enjoy our time together.。
