Good morning, everyone.。
Okay, it works.。
That's good.。
Looks like people are doing well.。
As always, it is a great privilege, an incredible privilege to be here to see you all this morning.。
So let me first open us in a word of prayer.。
If you would bow your heads with me, let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, our God and our Father, what is man that we can stand before you in this。
moment that you would hear us?。
Only by your son, Lord, can we stand before you righteous and justified, seen not as enemies。
but as friends and as children, as heirs of your kingdom.。
And so, God, I ask in this moment that you would be with us, that you would make your。
presence known to your people here, that you would magnify yourself.。
Would you guard them against anything I say that might not be of you?。
Would you use what I say and help us see your word as you have spoken it to your people,。
Lord?。
This time is yours.。
These people are yours and we pray all this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Okay.。
So, as many of you are aware, just looking at the slide, we have been in the book of。
James and we will be continuing our reading of the book of James, which is a letter from。
James to the Jewish Christians of dispersion.。
And what we find in James is that the theme of James is followers of Jesus are to be affected。
by their faith, not just hearers of the word of God, but also doers of the word of God.。
And this is James' call for his brothers and sisters, for them to live wise lives, lives。
that are reflective of the gospel that they have received.。
Last time, we saw James address the way in which the Jewish Christians were to treat。
the poor and the needy that come into the midst of their gathering, how they are not。
to make distinctions among themselves based on outward appearance or seek to curry favor。
of those who are rich in the eyes of the world.。
Instead, they are to show mercy and compassion, to love their neighbors just as God had loved。
them in their need.。
Rather than seek favor from man, they are to look to God and God alone for their needs.。
You see, the apostle James doesn't want God's people to live double lives.。
He wants them to be whole, perfect, and complete, to be rid of the flaws in character that come。
from keeping parts of themselves separate from the effects of the gospel, and in doing。
so become more and more like Jesus.。
Yet James' instructions, okay, his instructions are not just given because he wants you to。
be more Christ-like.。
That is incredibly important, but not just that.。
He gives them because it is a matter of life and death.。
Having said that, let's look at today's passage.。
If you have your Bibles with you, I invite you to turn with me to James chapter 2, verses。
14 to 26.。
Again, that is the book of James, its second chapter from verse 14 to the end of verse。
26.。
It's on the slide here, and I'll just read it for you guys, okay?。
Here we are.。
James chapter 2, verses 14 to 26.。
What good is it, my brothers and sisters, if someone claims to have faith but has no。
deeds?。
Can such a faith save them?。
Suppose a brother or a sister is without clothes and daily food.。
If one of you says to them, "Go in peace, keep warm and well-fed," but does nothing。
about their physical needs, what good is it?。
In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead.。
But someone will say, "You have faith, I have deeds.。
Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by my deeds.。
You believe that there is one God, good.。
Even the demons believe that, and shudder.。
You foolish person, do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless?。
Was not our father Abraham considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac。
on the altar?。
You see that his faith and his actions were working together, and his faith was made complete。
by what he did.。
And a scripture was fulfilled that said, "Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as。
righteousness, and he was called God's friend."。
You see that a person is considered righteous by what they do and not by faith alone.。
In the same way, was not even Rahab the prostitute considered righteous for what she did when。
she gave lodging to the spies and sent them off in a different direction?。
As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead.。
We start here.。
We start here in verse 14, with this question placed right before you.。
What good is it?。
What good is it for someone to claim faith but exhibit no deeds?。
The scenario is given here, where there is someone who needs clothes and food.。
James asks his audience, he asks them this question, "What good is it to pray and give。
blessing, right?。
Go in peace, keep warm and well fed without providing food or clothes.。
What good is it?"。
And so the implication here is that it is of no good.。
It is not enough.。
Before the blessing was pronounced, the person was in need of clothing and food, and after。
the blessing, that person is still in need of clothing and food.。
The need is unfulfilled.。
This is, to James, something that is significantly wrong.。
Something is incredibly wrong with the faith of someone who only says, "Go in peace, keep。
warm and well fed," and does not provide clothes or food.。
You can see for yourself just how wrong James considers it.。
If you look at verse 14 with me, in the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied。
by action, is dead.。
James calls this faith dead, useless and dead.。
No, it is of no good if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds.。
Their faith is dead.。
We see here in verses 14 to 17 a warning.。
Do not confuse faith professed with faith practiced.。
In other words, don't mistake just saying, "I have faith," with faith that results in。
action.。
By itself, faith professed does not save.。
For the person who says, "I have faith," will also be moved by their faith.。
They will not just be hearers of the Word of God, they will be doers of the Word of。
God.。
And this is something James understands.。
Something that you and I need to understand.。
It is a living faith that saves.。
Okay, let me repeat that for you.。
It is a living faith that saves.。
Let's not miss this frightening statement from verse 14.。
You see this one?。
The one pretending to be a question?。
What good is it, my brothers and sisters, if someone claims to have faith but has no。
deeds?。
Can such a faith save them?。
A faith that makes claims but is without deeds, can that faith save?。
Again, it's implied, right?。
It's implied.。
No, that faith cannot save.。
Faith without action is dead.。
And a dead faith cannot and will not save you.。
This I'll repeat for you as well.。
Faith without action is dead.。
And a dead faith cannot and will not save you.。
17 to 19.。
We see here that James quickly moves into an exchange between himself and a person who。
is disagreeing with him.。
The disagreeing man tells him, "You have your deeds, I have my faith."。
And what is being said here is, "Will your deeds save you or will my faith save me?"。
He's challenging him.。
And this is a very real situation, right?。
Because you, you having come to faith, having received your salvation, you didn't receive。
it because you earned it, right?。
This is an absolutely true thing.。
And James does not dispute this fact.。
You having come to Christ did not receive your salvation because you earned it.。
He does not dispute that salvation is in fact a supernatural work of God.。
But James does dispute something.。
Look at his response with me, okay?。
"Show me your faith without deeds and I will show you my faith by my deeds.。
You believe that there is one God, good.。
Even the demons believe that and shudder."。
Firstly, faith is not just knowledge of what is and is not true.。
It goes further than that.。
Just knowing something isn't enough to save you.。
Believing that there is one God does not save you.。
In fact, look, James makes it clear that demons know even more than you do that the God of。
the Bible is the God of heaven and earth and this knowledge does not save them.。
In fact, it makes them shudder.。
They tremble in fear because their knowledge does not change their behavior.。
All right.。
Secondly, looking at this, there's an error in this argument that's being made against。
James.。
The error made against James is separating faith and works.。
The error is thinking that saving faith can be divorced from merciful works.。
Action and works aren't something additional to living faith.。
Let me ask you a quick question, okay?。
You guys will ace this.。
How many of you right now are breathing?。
Right?。
All of you.。
Everyone here is breathing.。
And so is your breathing an addition to your living?。
Is breathing something extra that you are doing?。
No, right?。
No.。
Breathing is a function of living.。
If you want to continue to live, you need to continue to breathe.。
And so when we look at works the way that James looks at works, we see that works are。
as breath to those that follow Christ Jesus.。
The action following faith proves that it is a living faith.。
And this is not a new reality about faith.。
This is the way that God has ordained living faith since the very beginning.。
If you look with me to verses 20 to 24, you'll see that James begins to talk about someone。
named Abraham, the father Abraham, who is the patriarch of these Jewish Christians,。
all right, from the line of faith.。
And we find that Abraham is considered righteous for what he did because of his interaction,。
because of the interaction between his faith and his actions.。
Abraham's faith was alive.。
It led him to obey God, to offer his son Isaac on the mountain where God's goodness and grace。
provided a substitute in Isaac's place.。
And through this cooperation of his faith and his works, Abraham's faith was made complete.。
It was able to fulfill its purpose.。
Living faith is shown by its very nature.。
Living faith is demonstrated through action.。
When James writes in verse 24, look at verse 24 with me, he says like, he says something。
here, not by, oh, is 24 on the screen?。
No, it's not.。
Let me, yes, okay, there we go.。
He says something here.。
You see that a person is considered righteous by what they do and not by faith alone.。
This faith that he talks about, that he refers to, is a faith that is dead with no ability。
to save because it's a living faith that saves, a living faith that takes action.。
Verse 25, just like Abraham, Rahab the prostitute was considered righteous because of her faith。
and her actions.。
These figures that find themselves in the honored line of David stand before God through。
a living faith.。
It wasn't a faith without action that saved them.。
It was a faith completed by action.。
And in the same way, faith without action cannot save you.。
You can't just say, I believe in Jesus' death and resurrection and then carry on with。
your life as if nothing has changed.。
Action apart from faith cannot save you.。
You know this to be true.。
You cannot earn your way to heaven.。
Your actions that come out of a personal standard of righteousness will always fall short of。
God's perfection.。
Only a faith accompanied by action, a living faith, can save.。
Having said all that, like this brings us to an incredibly important question that you。
must answer.。
Do you have a living faith, a faith that compels you to not just be hearers of the Word of。
God but also doers of the Word?。
Do you have this faith that can and will save you, a faith that lives?。
Consider this carefully because you are not meant to be dead.。
My brothers and sisters in Christ, you are meant to be alive.。
Your body is not without a spirit.。
You are meant to be the dwelling place of the spirit of the living God.。
While you and I were still enemies of Christ, He looked and He saw you.。
He saw you in your disregard and opposition to Him and still He reached out to you.。
While you and I were dead in our sin, the Word of God who was with God and was God,。
Jesus Christ, embraced death so that He could pull you out of death and into life.。
On a wooden cross, Jesus placed Himself under the punishment you rightfully deserved and。
bought forgiveness for all your wrongdoing.。
Every sin you have and will ever commit, in glory, Jesus rose from the grave to give you。
life in abundance.。
Do you see?。
Do you see here?。
You aren't supposed to be like you were before.。
You can't be like you were before.。
Only the dead are comfortable in their coffins.。
You are meant to be living children of God with a living faith.。
And James tells you up front how this is supposed to look.。
The book of James, right, as we've been going through it, it gives instruction after instruction。
on the way that Christians are supposed to live, the way that Christians should relate。
to those that are around them.。
The verses right before today's passage spoke on how the Jewish Christians were to treat。
the poor and the needy that came into the midst of their gathering, how they were not。
to make distinctions based on outward appearance or to seek favor from those who are rich in。
the eyes of the world.。
So we see in James that works of mercy are the natural and fullest expression of living。
faith.。
Acts of love, of goodness, of charity, acts that provide.。
This is James's understanding of living faith.。
In this crowd, are you a husband, a wife, a father, a mother, a son, or a daughter?。
If that's you, then be merciful, compassionate to your mother, your father, your son, your。
daughter, your neighbors.。
Be compassionate and merciful.。
I understand that none of this is easy.。
It is not easy to be merciful or compassionate because we are not an easily lovable people.。
Because our unmet needs, they cause the cracks and the flaws in our character to widen, and。
then out of that comes sin.。
So as we close up our time here, continue to fix your eyes on Jesus and remember what。
he has done for you, how he loved you to make you lovable, and how he redeemed you from。
the pit.。
In that same way, look upon your neighbor, those that God has placed around you, and。
be both hearers and doers of the word of God.。
Live as a living children of God with a living faith.。
Be whole and complete.。
Let me close us in a word of prayer.。
