Good morning and welcome. I'm so excited that you're joining us this morning on this beautiful Easter Sunday for the Urban Voice English Service.。
So glad that you're here and I hope that you've enjoyed this week. It really has been beautiful.。
There's been some very beautiful days. There were a few cool days, but there were some really nice days here in Chicago.。
I love this time of year, the spring when the days are getting longer and the grass is beginning to turn green。
and there's even some flowers beginning to bloom. Such a beautiful time of year and so hopeful for us.。
It reminds us of the renewal and the new life that God brings. So this is just a really beautiful time of year.。
I hope you're getting outside and enjoying it. I've been trying to get out and enjoy it and garden and hike and walk with my wife and my kids.。
I love being outdoors, so I've been doing that.。
This is a special week, obviously. That's why I'm dressed up a little bit. If you've tuned into the U.V. English Service before,。
you know I don't normally dress up like this. It took me a while to tie this bow tie. I'm really not good at that at all.。
But I'm dressed up because it's a special week. It's Easter and this is really a special day in our faith。
and a special time to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus and the hope that lies in that resurrection.。
I hope that as you've gone through this week, what we sometimes call Passion Week or Holy Week,。
you've had a lot of time to reflect on Jesus and on His life and on His death and His death on the cross and what it meant for you.。
I hope you've had a lot of time to connect with God, getting in the Word and spending time in prayer, spending time in worship,。
and maybe spending some extra time just reflecting on the cross and the story of the cross and what it means.。
The redemption, the forgiveness, the grace that is communicated in that story. I hope this has been an encouraging week for you.。
One of the things I love about Holy Week is it's kind of a microcosm of our faith.。
It starts with Palm Sunday and excitement and anticipation and hopefulness and then it progresses through some really difficult times.。
Good Friday when Jesus is condemned to die and hung on the cross and He dies.。
There's a sense of hope deferred and of discouragement there.。
Then it ends with Easter Sunday and the renewal of God's hope of redemption.。
I think that's just a beautiful picture for us because it gives us a very real picture of our world.。
The world we live in is broken. We can't pretend that everything is fine and that everything is okay and that everything is great.。
We can't. We can't pretend that way in our faith. We need to be honest about the brokenness and the suffering of the world.。
But we can't get stuck in depression over how broken things are.。
We have to have the hope of Jesus and that's what Easter is about.。
It gives us the hope that God has come to rescue us, that God is going to make things right.。
That's really what we're going to focus on today.。
We're going to focus on how the resurrection answers so many of the questions that we have in our hearts.。
It answers those heart cries, those deep longings and those heart-wrenching questions that we have.。
Jesus answered those things in the resurrection.。
He answered them in an affirmative way and He answered them in a beautiful and loving way.。
We're going to look at that today.。
Let's turn together and look at Luke 24, the first 12 verses.。
This is the story of the resurrection.。
It says, "But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices they had prepared.。
And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb.。
But when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.。
While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel.。
And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them,。
'Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but has risen.。
Remember how He told you while He was still in Galilee that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and on the third day rise.'。
And they remembered His words.。
And returning from the tomb, they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.。
Now it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles.。
But those words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them.。
But Peter rose and ran to the tomb, stooping and looking in.。
He saw the linen cloths by themselves, and he went home marveling at what had happened."。
This is just the very beginning of the story of the resurrection.。
There's so much more that's here, but we're just going to focus on this section today.。
And it gives us a snapshot of what happened on the morning of the first Easter.。
And it begins to answer some of those questions that we have in our hearts.。
The first thing I want us to consider this morning is that the resurrection is real.。
It's real. It really happened.。
And I understand that it's an amazing story to hear and to consider.。
And that a lot of us, when we hear it, we might feel skeptical.。
We might say, "Okay, wait a second. I don't know. Could this really happen?"。
Especially if you're not someone who's in the church, you might look at this story and say,。
"Okay, this just seems too fantastic to even be true,。
that someone could be raised from the dead when they've been in the tomb for three days."。
And there's a lot of good evidence for the resurrection.。
But I just want to focus on a few things today because we don't have a lot of time.。
We could spend weeks and weeks talking about the evidence.。
But I just want to focus on a few things to help remind us that there's a lot of good reason。
to believe that this really happened and that the resurrection is real.。
It's not just a story. It's not just a fable.。
It's not just a myth or some story with a moral meaning.。
It's actually something that really happened.。
Now, we know that Jesus is one of the most, probably the most, well-documented figure in antiquity.。
There are so many sources about Jesus and his life that speak about him.。
And not just from Christianity, the Gospels, those sources.。
There's a lot of other contemporary historical sources from people who are not Christians。
and who were just historians who wrote about Jesus and his life and his death.。
And the fact that he was crucified, he died on a cross,。
and his followers said that he rose from the dead.。
So this is not really disputed by any historian, the fact that Jesus lived,。
the fact that he was crucified on a cross, and the fact that people said he rose from the dead.。
Pretty much everybody is in agreement about that.。
But obviously there are people who say, "We don't think Jesus actually physically rose from the dead.。
That just seems like too much."。
But here's three big things for us to consider this morning。
that help us see that this is something that really happened.。
First of all, there's the empty tomb.。
Jesus' body was not there.。
And that seems like something simple in the beginning, but it's an inescapable fact.。
When we look in the book of Matthew, in chapter 28, verses 11 to 15,。
when the guards, who the priests had assigned to guard the tomb, come back to the priests,。
the Jewish chief priests and the Jewish elders, and say,。
"Hey, something crazy happened. There was this earthquake, and the body is gone."。
The chief priests say, "Well, we don't want this word to get out, so here's what we're going to do.。
We're going to pay you guys some money to just tell people that the disciples came at night and stole the body."。
Now, these people, the priests and elders, were actually enemies of Jesus.。
They did not like Jesus at all.。
If there was any way that they could produce his body and say,。
"Hey, look, it's a hoax. It didn't happen. Here's the body here," they would have done so.。
But even they, even though they did not like Jesus, could not escape the fact that the tomb was empty.。
His body was gone.。
So they had to invent a story to try to explain it.。
And that's an inescapable reality of history.。
The tomb is empty. Jesus' body is gone.。
No one has ever been able to say, "Hey, we found Jesus' body buried in this place, and we've confirmed it."。
Or, "Hey, we found Jesus living in this other place as an old man, and we've confirmed that."。
No one has ever been able to prove that.。
No one has ever been able to say that the tomb is empty.。
Jesus really lived on the earth. He really died on the cross.。
And the tomb is empty. His body is not there.。
He really rose again.。
And the next thing I want us to consider is the eyewitnesses that were eyewitnesses to this.。
Now, we can see here in Luke, in the passage that we read,。
that even the eyewitnesses themselves were initially skeptics.。
They were not sitting around trying to invent a story of how Jesus was rising from the dead.。
They were skeptical themselves.。
They had forgotten that Jesus talked about being resurrected from the dead.。
That's why the angels have to remind them of that in verse 7 of Luke 24, that Jesus had prophesied this.。
The angels remind them of that because they had forgotten.。
They weren't expecting it.。
And they were carrying on as if Jesus' death was a final moment, as if it was all over.。
How do we know that? We see that in their actions.。
The women, who are the first witnesses to Jesus' resurrection.。
And by the way, that's a whole other sermon in and of itself.。
It's such a beautiful thing that the first witnesses to the resurrection of Jesus were women.。
Because in the first century, in their culture, these women were not really empowered in any way.。
Actually, their testimony was not admissible in a court of law.。
And so, if you were going to try to find witnesses to support something happening,。
and to try to make a good case that this happened,。
you would not gather a group of women and say, "These are the witnesses."。
But Jesus, His resurrection was first revealed to the women because of God's love。
and God's view of women in the kingdom of God.。
And that's a really powerful thing in and of itself.。
But these women are the first ones who come.。
They have come to anoint the body.。
They have come to put these burial spices and sweet-smelling things on the body.。
They're not coming because they're expecting for Him to be risen.。
They're coming because they're convinced that He is dead.。
And they're going to carry out some kind of last service to Jesus by caring for His body.。
They're expecting Him to be dead in every way.。
We also see that with the disciples, the eleven who are left.。
Where are they? They're hiding out in locked rooms.。
We see this in the Gospels, that when Jesus begins to appear to them,。
they're hiding in locked rooms because they're afraid.。
They're convinced that it's all over, that Jesus is dead,。
that everything that they were moving towards and believing in is now done,。
and that they're probably next, that the authorities are coming for them next.。
And so, they're hiding in locked rooms.。
They're not anticipating this.。
The disciples themselves are so skeptical that here in Luke's account,。
chapter 24, it tells us that when the women, in verse 10,。
come to the disciples, to the eleven, and tell them what they've seen at the tomb,。
that the disciples, it seems to them like an idle tale, and they don't believe the women.。
They say, "No, that's just too much. That's crazy. I can't believe it."。
Even the disciples themselves are skeptical.。
They say, "This can't actually happen."。
And they had seen the miracles of Jesus,。
and they had heard Jesus prophesy that He was going to rise again,。
but they couldn't believe it. They couldn't accept it.。
So, obviously, it's okay to be skeptical.。
It's okay to say, "Okay, this seems like something really big and amazing and impossible."。
Yes, it is impossible, but God has the power to do the impossible,。
and that's what He's demonstrating here.。
Another thing that's important to understand about these eyewitnesses,。
the women and the apostles themselves,。
was they suffered for this story.。
This was not a story that they told to get rich.。
This was not a story that they told to benefit themselves in some way.。
As they told the story of the risen Christ, and as they went out to share the gospel,。
they were persecuted for it, and every one of them was tortured and eventually killed。
in terrible and brutal and violent ways for this story.。
And obviously, if you're telling a lie to other people,。
you might keep the lie up as long as it's benefiting you,。
as long as it protects your reputation, or as long as it enriches you in some way.。
But when it starts to hurt you, and when it starts to destroy your life,。
you have no reason to continue to tell that lie anymore.。
And you have no reason to tell that lie until your dying moment,。
and to believe in it with all of your heart,。
so much so that you're willing to be martyred for that.。
That just doesn't make any sense at all.。
And so we have to look at the lives and the testimonies of these eyewitnesses。
and say that they were believing in something real and powerful.。
They didn't allow themselves to be tortured and killed and martyred in violent and brutal ways。
for some type of fantasy or some type of idea they had concocted in their head.。
This was real, and they knew it, and that's why they had the power of God in their lives。
to spread the gospel and to do miracles and to do all the things the Book of Acts talks about.。
And it's why they believed it and believed it enough that they never recanted,。
even when they were tortured, even when they were forced by authorities,。
and the Romans and the Jewish authorities and all these different people。
who just said, "Stop preaching, stop telling this story, just say it didn't happen,"。
and they wouldn't, and they went to their deaths believing this because it was real.。
And by the way, the Book of Acts talks about the fact that Jesus appeared to over 500 people。
after he had resurrected, before he went into heaven.。
So this was not just a small group of people that got together and shared this story.。
It was hundreds of people who witnessed Jesus after the crucifixion,。
who witnessed his resurrected body.。
They were eyewitnesses.。
And the last thing I want us to consider is just the presence of the church itself.。
You know, if you concoct a big con and then you get found out,。
you lose all credibility and no one will ever listen to you again.。
Think about someone like Bernie Madoff who conned people out of their money,。
and for a while he was trusted and everybody thought he was great。
and that he was this financial wizard.。
But when it came out that he was lying to people and losing people's money,。
then he was put into prison, and obviously no one would trust him with their money now.。
So if this was some type of fabricated story that the disciples made up。
and it was a lie that they spread, then it could have been easily refuted,。
and they would have lost all credibility,。
and no one would have believed in the message of the gospel or the church,。
and this movement never would have gotten off the ground.。
Because everyone would have said, "Oh, we've heard it before. It was a big con.。
It was fake. It was just a story that someone made up, and we can clearly refute it.。
That person has no credibility, and they should go to jail."。
But that's not the case, right?。
The church grew explosively and has continued to grow。
and has continued to weather storms of persecution and tribulation。
and trials and trouble for the last 2,000 years.。
And that tells us that the strength of the early church。
and the continuing strength of the church today around the world。
and the growth of the church around the world。
is not because of something that was simply made up.。
It's because of something real.。
Now, it is an amazing claim.。
Other religions say, "Hey, our leader had a vision or a dream or something like this,。
and that's how we came to know this enlightened truth."。
Jesus says, "Hey, I rose from the dead,。
and I am the way, the truth, and the life, and through me."。
That's how you know the truth.。
That is an enormous claim,。
but there's very good reason to believe that it's real.。
I'm not trying to tell you that I'm going to convince you of it.。
If you're a skeptic and you say, "I'm still not certain," that's okay.。
I'm not here to argue today,。
but I do want you to understand there are very good reasons to believe that this is real。
and that it really happened。
and that the power of God was at work in the life of Jesus。
in raising him up from the dead。
and in the church that began after Jesus left the earth.。
I want to talk about how the resurrection answers some of the questions that we have in our life.。
First, I want us to see that the resurrection certifies the message of the gospel.。
The gospel says that there's one way to heaven.。
Jesus says that he is the way, the truth, and the life,。
and that no one gets to the Father except through him.。
Again, that's a pretty big claim.。
Jesus talks about how we come to him through grace and forgiveness,。
that it's not through doing good works.。
It's not through trying to be good enough.。
It's not something that we earn our way into favor with God or earn our way into heaven,。
but that it's through God's grace and love and forgiveness.。
It's by grace and through faith, through our belief in Jesus' love and work on our behalf。
that we come into the kingdom of God.。
Those are huge claims.。
Without the resurrection, we'd have a lot of reasons to say, "I'm not really sure if that's true.。
That sounds too good to believe.。
That sounds too good to be true, that I could be forgiven for all the mistakes I've made,。
for everything I've done wrong, and it could just be forgiven and wiped clean."。
That sounds too good to be true, but the resurrection certifies that the message of the gospel is true.。
It assures us and it says, "Yes, the gospel is real.。
Yes, Jesus is the Son of God.。
Yes, Jesus is the way to heaven.。
Yes, Jesus is the way to the Father.。
Jesus is the way to relationship with God."。
Yes, that comes through by grace and through faith, and you don't have to earn it,。
and you don't have to work hard, and you don't have to perform.。
It's not about that.。
It's about Jesus cleansing you, forgiving you, and changing your life.。
That message is certified and stamped as real by the resurrection itself.。
That answers a lot of the questions we have about our own worth and our identity,。
and are we good enough, and do we have to be good enough, and how do we earn it.。
All those questions are answered because the resurrection says, "No, you don't have to earn it.。
Yes, God loves you.。
Yes, you can be accepted.。
Yes, you can be forgiven.。
Yes, you can come into the kingdom of God because of what Jesus did."。
The next thing I want us to see, and this is powerful for us to consider in the world that we live in right now,。
is that the resurrection authenticates the future promises of God.。
The resurrection authenticates the future promises of God.。
In the book of Isaiah chapter 40, verses 3 to 5, it says this,。
"A voice cries in the wilderness, 'Prepare the way of the Lord.。
Make straight in the desert a highway for our God.。
Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill shall be made low.。
The uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain.。
And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed,。
and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken."。
That's a beautiful promise.。
When we look at our world and we see so much injustice, so much suffering, so much pain,。
and so many unlevel places, so many crooked paths,。
God has promised that one day in the future, He's going to make every crooked path straight.。
He's going to fill in every valley.。
And that's metaphorical language that's saying that God is going to fix every injustice.。
God is going to right every wrong.。
God is going to balance out the scales of justice once and for all.。
That is a beautiful promise.。
In Revelation chapter 21, verses 1 through 6, it says this,。
"Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth.。
For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more.。
And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,。
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.。
And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, 'Behold, the dwelling place of God is with men.。
He will dwell with them, and they will be His people, and God Himself will be with them as their God.。
He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more.。
Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.'。
And he who was seated on the throne said, 'Behold, I am making all things new.'。
Also he said, 'Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.'。
And he said to me, 'It is done.。
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end,。
to the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment.'"。
Man, what a promise.。
What a promise.。
There will be a time in the future when God will make everything new.。
God will dry every tear.。
There will be no more pain, no more disease, no more COVID, no more cancer,。
no more suffering, no more grief, no more injustice, no more racism, no more poverty.。
It will all be gone.。
And that God will dwell with us.。
That's the most beautiful part of the promise.。
We were created for relationship to God, and our sin has broken that relationship,。
and out of that brokenness comes all of the terrible and evil things that we see in the world。
that we do to ourselves and do to one another.。
But this promise is that God is going to restore that relationship,。
and He's going to dwell with us.。
We're going to be together like we were created to be.。
What a beautiful promise.。
Now, without the resurrection, we could say,。
"That's some beautiful language. That's some poetic stuff, and that sounds great.。
Yeah, I really want that to be true, but I'm not sure that it actually is."。
But the resurrection authenticates the future promises of God.。
And it says, "Yes, look at the power of God at work in Christ,。
and the power of God at work on the cross as Jesus dies for all of humanity。
and offers forgiveness and grace to everyone,。
and the power of God at work to raise Jesus from the dead,。
to defeat sin and to defeat death once for all."。
God has the power to do that,。
and that authenticates the fact that God has the power to make all things new.。
That when Jesus says He is the beginning and the end,。
that He's the first and the last,。
and that He can make all things new,。
that it's true, that it's real, that it's actually going to happen.。
The resurrection authenticates that.。
And you might say, "Well, that's great.。
I mean, the promise of heaven is beautiful. It is beautiful."。
You might say, "But is that enough?"。
That's something that the Church has grappled with through the ages,。
and people have at times accused the Church of being too focused on heaven。
and not enough on this world.。
And that's a legitimate criticism.。
People can say, "Well, Christians shouldn't just sit around and say,。
'Hey, one day it's going to be great. One day it's all going to be fixed.。
One day it's going to be better in heaven,。
and we'll just wait until we get there, and in the meantime,。
we'll just live in this world of suffering and brokenness。
and all the terrible things that happen.'"。
What about right here, right now?。
And that's a very valid question that we have.。
And I want us to see that the resurrection。
doesn't just authenticate the future promises of God,。
but it also validates the present imperative of living kingdom values.。
The resurrection validates the present imperative of living kingdom values.。
We've been talking about kingdom values for a while now。
as we study the Sermon on the Mount.。
And Jesus has been teaching us in that sermon。
how important it is that we live out the values of the kingdom.。
He's taught us that ultimately our lives are supposed to be。
so saturated with the values of the kingdom that it's like a sponge.。
Whenever you squeeze a sponge, whatever that sponge is saturated with。
is what's going to come out.。
And our lives are supposed to be so full and saturated。
with the values of the kingdom that when we're squeezed,。
that the values of the kingdom come out into the lives of the people around us,。
into the world around us.。
Love, joy, peace--those are the things that are supposed to come out.。
And we look at our world and we say, "What about poverty?。
Does Jesus care about that?"。
And the resurrection says, "Yes, Jesus cares about poverty.。
Jesus cares about the suffering of people in our present reality."。
"What about racism? What about injustice?。
Does Jesus care about those things?"。
"Yes, Jesus cares about those things."。
"Jesus cares about human suffering."。
"What about oppression and people who live in places。
where they're oppressed by evil governments or by armies。
or people who come in and invade them and attack them。
and all these terrible things that happen in our world?"。
The resurrection says, "Yes, Jesus cares about that."。
That's why He came. That's why He was here--。
to bring healing into our lives and to bring healing into those things.。
We talked about that last week--that Jesus cares about the brokenness。
of the systems and structures in our world, and He wants to heal them.。
And He wants to bring healing into our hearts.。
Jesus came to heal the world one heart at a time.。
And as He heals us, and as our lives get saturated with the values of the kingdom。
and start to flow out into the world around us,。
that a lot of the brokenness, the systems and structures,。
and all those terrible things begin to change as well.。
That's what Jesus wants for us.。
He wants us to be healed, and He wants us to be an instrument of healing in the world.。
Jesus does care about those things.。
And that brings us to say, "But is Jesus enough?。
Is Jesus enough to heal our world?"。
We say, "All right, Jesus, I hear what you're saying about peace and love and forgiveness.。
That's good stuff. But you don't know how mean these streets are.。
You don't know how tough it is out here. You don't know how bad it is where I live."。
And Jesus says, "Yeah, I do. I came. I lived it. I walked it.。
I was killed by powerful forces that wanted me out of the way.。
And they're the people who hung me on the cross because I was a threat to their power.。
But I defeated their power, not through force and coercion and greater power.。
Even though Jesus had greater power, He defeated the powerful through love.。
And that's what Jesus is showing us in the cross and in the resurrection.。
And that brings us to another question that we have.。
We may say, "Okay, is Jesus enough? Is the love of God enough?"。
The answer is yes. The resurrection tells us yes.。
But then we say, "But God, is it worth it? Is it worth it to live out the values of the kingdom?"。
We've been talking about these for a while, like I said.。
And they are tough to live out.。
Humility, deep humility that causes us to see our own poverty of spirit,。
our own brokenness, treat others with meekness, mourn over sin and brokenness in our world.。
That's tough to live out. Is it worth it?。
Being a peacemaker in a world that's full of violence and vengeance and hatred,。
it is tough to be a peacemaker.。
Is it worth it to try to be a peacemaker when everybody else is throwing rocks at you?。
Is it worth it? That's a valid question.。
Forgiving others, is it worth it to forgive someone else when they've wronged you?。
Is it worth it to let them off the hook, to let go of that anger and frustration that you feel towards them?。
Jesus called us to forgiveness. That's a kingdom value. But is it worth it?。
What about seeking purity of heart?。
What about loving our enemies?。
I was right here in the Sermon on the Mount. Man, that is tough.。
What about trying to honor God in all the practical ways of our life that Jesus has talked about,。
our finances He talked about here in the Sermon on the Mount?。
How we're supposed to lay up treasures in heaven, not on earth.。
We're supposed to be heavenly minded with what's valuable to us,。
instead of being earthly minded and trying to just make money and stack it up.。
What about honoring God with our relationships and with our sexuality?。
Those things are really difficult.。
Is it worth it to try to obey God and try to live out the values of the kingdom?。
The resurrection says yes. The resurrection validates the present imperative of living the values of the kingdom.。
The resurrection validates that yes, the sacrifices that we make to obey God。
and to seek His kingdom first and to honor Him in our lives are worth it.。
You know, when we think about these questions and we say,。
"Man, I have so many questions about following God."。
Think about the disciples and the questions they had.。
They had just spent three years of their life devoted to Jesus and to following Him.。
They quit their jobs, they left their families, and they spent every moment with Jesus.。
And then they had seen Him crucified on the cross.。
And it felt like everything that they believed in,。
everything that they had built their world around, was gone and had come crashing down.。
No wonder they were depressed.。
No wonder they were hiding out in a locked room.。
That's what I would have been doing. I wouldn't have wanted to move in that situation.。
But then what happened? The resurrection happened.。
And suddenly it answered every question they had.。
They must have had so many questions.。
"Why, God? Why did this happen?"。
"Why did you even call us in the first place that this was going to happen?"。
"Why did you let this happen?"。
"Why did you let the Romans and the Jewish leaders kill you?"。
"It was so unjust. It was so wrong. Why?"。
But the resurrection answered every question.。
And it validated all the things that Jesus had taught them.。
And suddenly they saw that this stuff is real.。
And Jesus was telling us the truth the whole time.。
And that's why they went out and lived so powerfully.。
And through them and through the early church,。
the world was literally turned upside down, as the book of Acts says.。
Because the teachings and the truth and all of the things that Jesus had taught them。
were validated by the power of the resurrection.。
When they saw that, they knew it's all true.。
It's all true. And they went out and lived like it's all true.。
And that is so important for us to see in our world.。
In our world that's built on strength and brute force and power,。
Jesus came and conquered with His love.。
And He conquered with forgiveness. And He conquered with grace.。
And He conquered with redemption.。
And He conquered sin and death once and for all.。
Where does that leave us?。
If you're someone who's watching today and you say,。
"Okay, well, I hear what you're saying and it sounds really good,。
but I don't know. I don't have any relationship with Jesus.。
The kingdom of God, that's not really something that I understand or that I'm a part of."。
The scripture is really clear that you can come into the kingdom at any moment.。
That you don't have to do anything other than believe in Jesus and put your trust in Him.。
You couldn't earn it anyway. I couldn't earn it. None of us could earn it.。
All of us are sinners. All of us have made mistakes and fallen short and messed up.。
All of us have broken our relationship with God that we were created for because of our mistakes.。
But God loved us so much, He said, "I want to restore the relationship."。
He sent His Son to earth. His Son, Jesus, who didn't sin, who lived the perfect life。
and at the end of His life laid His life down in our place as a sacrifice for us.。
Took the wrath of God that we deserved on Him for our mistakes and our sin。
and our terrible, evil stuff that we do.。
Jesus took it all on Him. Suffered the penalty, paid the cost。
so that we could be forgiven and we could be made free.。
And all we have to do to experience that is believe it and say,。
"God, I believe that Jesus was the Son of God. I believe that He died for me.。
I believe that He offers forgiveness that can wash away all of my sins and I want it and I'm asking for it."。
If you trust and believe that, then you come into the kingdom of God.。
You come into the family of God.。
Romans 10, verses 9 and 10 says this,。
"If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised Him from the dead,。
you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified,。
and with the mouth one confesses and is saved."。
If you've never done that, if you've never believed in your heart,。
if you've never confessed with your mouth that Jesus is the Lord,。
that He has forgiven your sins and paid the penalty for you,。
you can do that right now. You can do that today.。
You can enter the kingdom of God.。
But a lot of you are probably people who have already entered the kingdom of God,。
but maybe you still have those questions.。
You still have those things, those hurts, those pains of life.。
And you say, "God, I don't know if I really want to follow You in this area.。
I don't know if I really trust You with this part of my life or this part of my heart or this part of my experience."。
And to all of us who are in that place, I would say that Jesus is calling us to surrender to the values of the kingdom。
and to really seek to live them out as if they are true because they are.。
And the resurrection validates that.。
Remember Matthew 6, verse 33, right here in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says,。
"Seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things will be added to you."。
It's a nice sounding statement, but what if it were actually true?。
How would that affect the way you live your life?。
And the resurrection says it is true.。
You can seek God's kingdom and surrender everything to Him.。
You can seek to have your life saturated with the values of the kingdom.。
And even though it may lead to sacrifice at times, it may lead to persecution at times,。
it may lead to difficulty at times, it will also lead to joy.。
It will also lead to amazing transformation in your heart and life.。
And it will be worth it. It will be worth it in this life, and it will be worth it one day in heaven.。
It will be completely worth it.。
And the resurrection validates that.。
So I want us to see that today, that the resurrection answers those questions that we have.。
It answers them affirmatively.。
It says, "Yes, God loves you. Yes, God cares. Yes, God has a future for you."。
And it's beautiful and wonderful, and God's going to dry every tear.。
But yes, God also cares about the present, and He wants good and blessing for you.。
And He wants you to know Him and walk with Him and experience relationship with Him.。
And He wants you to experience healing in your heart and in your emotions and in your past and throughout your life.。
And He wants you to experience transformation that allows you to be an instrument of healing in the world around you.。
And the resurrection validates and affirms and authenticates all of that.。
So we have a message of hope and of joy today when we consider the resurrection.。
Let's pray.。
God, thank You that Jesus is risen.。
Thank You that He came and gave His life for us on the cross, but that was not the end of the story.。
That He defeated sin and death once and for all, and that now He reigns on high in heaven.。
God, thank You for the power of the resurrection.。
May the power of it be real to us.。
May we believe it and may it validate and authenticate all of those values of the kingdom that You have been pouring into our hearts.。
And may we begin to live like those things are actually true.。
May we begin to live them out.。
May we become agents of healing in our world.。
In Jesus name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
