- Thank you, Pastor Mark.。
- Hey, how's it going guys?。
I know it has been a long weekend。
and this is a Labor Day weekend。
and a lot of us are out of town.。
And then for some of you,。
yesterday was a very, very long day, right?。
Well, one applause for all of you.。
Sometimes you have to say thank you to yourself.。
In any case, today we're going to talk about Psalm 19.。
Now you remember last week we went to the Botanical Garden。
and we had a very good time, right?。
So I kept on thinking about this psalm。
and it says, let me read maybe the first verse.。
"The heavens declare the glory of God。
and the skies proclaim the work of His hands."。
And then the creation is like a preacher.。
It's like someone who's preaching a sermon to you。
and proclaiming the greatness of God。
to all people everywhere, all the time.。
And like this psalm says,。
the heavens and the creation do not speak our language.。
There's no voice.。
Yet they speak a language。
that everyone of us can understand.。
That's amazing.。
Day after day, night after night,。
creation keeps on pointing us。
back to the glory of the creator.。
And as you can see,。
these new images came out 2022 by James Webb Telescope.。
And you know, 100 years ago,。
we, people thought that there was only one galaxy.。
But now with this pictures,。
with this all kinds of new images,。
there were countless of galaxies in space, in deep space.。
And some of the lights we see today。
has traveled like 13 billion years of time。
before reaching us now.。
Now this tells us, like the psalm says,。
you know, how small we are。
and how great our God, how vast the universe is.。
And the heavens stretch out beyond our imagination.。
And yet, this is only what we see today in nature.。
It's only a reflection of the majesty of our maker.。
Now the psalm, psalm 19,。
highlights one of the factors, the sun.。
Now you can ask the question, why the sun?。
Why focus on the sun?。
Because, you know, everyone see the sun.。
You saw the sun today, right?。
You came in and you saw the sun and you woke up.。
It's like a bridegroom coming out of his wedding canopy.。
You know, it's like a look of triumph,。
like a champion running with joy and with energy.。
That is the sun.。
The sun rises every day.。
It runs its courses across the sky with power.。
And you can tell, even in Chicago,。
we don't have a lot of sun,。
but when the sun comes up, nothing escapes its heat.。
And the same way, the psalm's telling us,。
no one should escape,。
no one can escape the weakness of creation.。
And the glory of God is unmistakable.。
And we acknowledge the existence of the savior, our maker.。
And not only in the vastness of the space,。
but even in the smallest detail in creation,。
it tells us the existence of God.。
Now, some years ago,。
a photographer tried to magnify the snowflakes。
and under the camera and took a lot of pictures.。
And as you can see,。
every single snowflake look different, right?。
Everyone, every snowflake has a unique signature。
and they are all masterpiece.。
And this is how amazing God's creation is.。
And from the blazing sun, we all can see,。
to the delicate snowflake, right?。
Snowflake.。
In the smallest detail,。
the creation keeps telling us God is glorious.。
Now, this is what the theologians of the Bible tells us.。
This is general revelations,。
because God left his fingerprint,。
his signature everywhere,。
every single inch of the creation.。
And no one can say, "I never heard of the creation,。
never heard of the creator."。
Creation is always speaking.。
And the only thing is whether you would listen or not.。
And I remember some years ago,。
there was a debate going on。
between a British rabbi called Jonathan Sachs.。
And he was debating the most famous atheist,。
Richard Dawkins, over online.。
And this is one of the conversation。
they had between each other.。
And I can translate first.。
- Okay.。
- And Sachs, during the debate,。
he said to the atheist, Dawkins,。
he said, "Richard, religion is music,。
but you are tone deaf."。
And then Richard Dawkins, responding to the debate,。
says, "Yes, it's true.。
I'm tone deaf, but there's no music."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And Psalm 19 reminds us, there is music all the time.。
There's music.。
Can you listen to the music?。
It is playing.。
The music is playing all around us.。
And the music of creation declare the glory of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And that's the first point you have to listen.。
You have to try to listen to the music of creation,。
the voice of creator.。
And the second point here is listen。
to the voice of the creator.。
And God does not only speak through creation.。
He also speaks to us, every single one of us,。
directly through His word.。
And that's what the Psalm is trying to describe.。
It is the beauty and the power of the word of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And in verses seven, eight, and nine,。
it says that God's law is so perfect,。
and it revives our soul,。
and His testimony gives wisdom.。
His precept gives us direction for our lives,。
and His commands gives clarity into our lives,。
and His judgment are always true and righteous,。
and the fear of the Lord is pure and eternal.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And in short, God's word gives you wisdom,。
gives you life, gives you joy and light,。
and it is reliable, unchangeable,。
and unlike any of our words, our human words.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And the Psalms keeps on telling us。
that the word of God are more than precious,。
than gold, and much, than much pure gold,。
sweeter than honey, and than honey from the comb.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- It is more precious than gold,。
and you know, you remember in the history。
of the United States, many, many years ago。
in the 19th century, 1850s, there was a gold rush, right?。
And all the people around the world。
fled to San Francisco, right?。
San Francisco, that's why we call San Francisco。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, and they came for gold,。
and they tried to, you know, sift through the soil。
and to find a few flecks of gold.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And there was a story going around。
about the gold rush, and the story goes,。
three men, they discover a gold mine,。
but they pledge to other people。
that we're not gonna tell anyone。
because it's absolutely secret, we wanna get the gold, right?。
So they promise each other never to tell anyone,。
but then when they walk into a bar, these three men,。
and then other people immediately come to them。
and telling them, "Oh, you guys must have found。
"the gold mine."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Now, the three men were shocked。
because they never tell anyone,。
and they ask, "How do you know that we found the gold mine?"。
And the people respond by saying,。
"It's all written over your face。
"because we see how you smile,。
"so you must have found the gold mine."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Now, this is what the word of God should do to us, right?。
We are filled with the word of God。
and then we can taste the sweetness。
and the treasure of all the treasures of the law of God.。
And people around us, you know, eventually should feel。
the power of the word of God, the joy of the Lord, right?。
Shining on our faces.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- So this psalm's telling you to listen。
to the music of creation。
and to listen to the voice of the creator,。
the word of God.。
And thirdly, from 11 to 14,。
it tells us to respond to this God who loves us.。
And after creation speaks, after God's word speaks,。
and what we make is our response, right?。
And the psalm is telling us,。
to show us how we should answer to the word of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And the psalm says,。
"By them your servant is warned,。
and in keeping the word of God, there is great reward."。
And he immediately responds saying,。
"Who can discern their own sins, their own errors,。
and ask God to forgive our hidden sin and faults."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And ask God to forgive our hidden sin and faults.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now this is an honest confession.。
Seriously, sometimes we cannot see all of our sins.。
So we must ask God to forgive us, to protect us,。
and to free us from pride and rebellion from sin.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And the psalm says,。
"Keep your servant also from willful sins.。
May they not rule over me, and I will be blameless.。
I will be clean and innocent of great transgression."。
And his desire, as you can see, is to be free from sin,。
not to be ruled by sin, but shaped by the word of God,。
the very word of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Finally, the last line is the most precious response.。
It says, "May the word of my mouth,。
the meditation of my heart, be pleasing in your sight,。
Lord, my rock and my redeemer."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now the word pleasing here, acceptable,。
how this translation was used often in the Old Testament。
to describe a sacrifice, sacrifice we offer to God.。
You know, a sacrifice is only meaningful。
if only God accept it.。
And that is the word here.。
In the same way, true worship here is not about,。
you know, asking, okay, do I like it or not?。
Do I like the song?。
Do I like the sermon?。
Do I like, you know, here or whatever?。
It's not our preference.。
It's that whether God would accept my worship.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And that's what meditation is all about, right?。
Your thought, you know, your thought life matters.。
You know, I wonder if you can,。
you would take time every day to meditate。
on the word of God, not rushing through the Bible,。
but, you know, let the word of God sink deep,。
deep into our hearts.。
And then our words and our thoughts and our lives。
will become offering that will give God glory.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So here, Psalm 19 is like music itself.。
It has three movements, right?。
To listen to the voice, the music of creation,。
listen to the voice of God,。
and our response finally to God.。
So there are three movements here,。
from creation, the word, to response.。
And each of the parts calls to God.。
So the first part is the word of God.。
And the second part is the word of God.。
The parts calls to you and me to listen carefully。
and then to step out of faith.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So here's my homework for you this week.。
You know, slow down and try to listen。
to the voice of creation.。
You know, look up the skies and look at the sun,。
not directly, right?。
Even the snowflakes, okay, not right now, I hope not.。
But the smallest details would declare the glory of God。
and the music of creation is always playing around us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then secondly, is to listen to the voice。
of the creator, 7 to 10, verses 7 to 10.。
And God's word is more precious than gold,。
sweeter than honey.。
We need to taste it, we need to experience it.。
It's a treasure that is hidden,。
but it will fill you with joy and life.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So this week, spend some time every day。
to listen to the voice of creation。
and listen to the voice of creator.。
And then with confession and prayer,。
making our lives pleasing in the sight of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So here it tells us creation points us to God.。
So let creation point us to God.。
And then the word of God will transform us.。
And our only fitting response is to bow down。
and worship in repentance and joyful obedience.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Well, at this point, why don't we conclude with a prayer?。
And in this prayer, I want you to come。
into the presence of God and to pray to him.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Let us pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Lord, thank you for your creation that declares your glory.。
And we wanna thank you for your word that give us life.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And forgive our hidden sins and keep us from rebellion。
and let our words and our meditation,。
our thought be pleasing to you。
because you are our rock and our redeemer.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Amen.。
So remember the homework this week.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Go out to creation, not your screen,。
not your screen, not your phone.。
Go out to the creation and listen。
to the music of the creation.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, and then spend some time in the word of God。
that gets singed into your lives.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, and God bless you this week。
and hope to see you next Sunday.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
All right, yeah, put it in your heart, yes.。
Okay, go in peace, guys.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
(gentle music continues)。
