Right here?。
All right.。
Okay.。
Today we're going to look at a passage that I had asked Kelly.。
I said, "Hey, Kelly, when was the last time you preached this passage?"。
Because I wanted to make sure that it's been two years since we looked at Judges chapter 6.。
And when I first looked at the story of Judges 6 with Gideon,。
we looked at the idea of tearing down the altars and putting the proper altar in its place.。
But today we're going to talk about a topic that I think applies to every single one of us in the room,。
is the idea of work.。
60% of all of our time throughout the entire week is spent at a job.。
And a lot of times within that job, some of us may love what we do.。
Some of us may just sit in there and say, "Man, is this all there is to my life? I hate my job."。
And we're left wondering, "Lord, what is it that you're calling us to do in the idea of work?"。
Faith, work, integration is so important for us as Christ followers。
because we do that all the time for a good chunk of the rest of our lives.。
We're at work until you decide to retire.。
Whether it's at 60 or whether it's 75 or 80 years old, you will be working.。
And I wish that some of us were probably sitting there, could be like David,。
where Samuel calls out and is trying to select the next king.。
And David shows up and he whispers to David, "You're going to be the next king."。
But it doesn't always happen, does it?。
Some of us are like Joseph, where we kind of land in exactly at a time when God uses us.。
Joseph is a guy that for some odd reason, his brother sold him into slavery.。
And now he is a slave.。
And somehow or another, God has given him the skills to rise up in the ranks in the palace。
of where he sold in slavery.。
But then his boss's wife accuses him of sexual malpractice and that he's thrown into prison.。
And later on, because of all the things that are happening,。
he rises up to be the chief of staff in the political system.。
Some of us are like Nehemiah, who is a cupbearer to the king.。
He tastes food so that the king, his boss, doesn't get poisoned.。
And somehow or another, God uses the cupbearer to the king。
to then rebuild the walls of Jerusalem because he has given him that burden.。
Or then some of us look at the two tax collectors in the Gospels.。
There's the tax collector of Matthew, where Jesus says to Matthew,。
"Pack up everything and follow me."。
But yet at the same time, he says to Zacchaeus, who climbs up a tree to see him,。
"I want you to follow me by staying as a tax collector."。
So how do you know when to be a tax collector?。
How do you know when to drop everything and follow Jesus?。
How do you know when to be a king?。
How do you know when to do all these different things?。
All of us are on the journey, aren't we?。
Some of us are called to be like Pastor Mark is a full-time vocational ministry.。
Some people are called to be a stay-at-home mom.。
Some people are called to be a teacher or a nurse.。
Some people are called to be an engineer, an entrepreneur.。
How do we begin to know what God has gifted us to be?。
And it becomes a journey that he leads all of us on.。
And sometimes within the journey, there's different chapters in our life within that journey.。
And within those chapters, is that where you want me to be?。
Maybe, but maybe not.。
And so sometimes he'll ask us to pivot, and 20 years from now, we'll look back at our life and say,。
"Wow, that's what you've been preparing me for."。
I think I've told all of you guys I spent the first 10 years of my life building cell towers.。
Then from that point on, I spent about three years working in a Korean church,。
while at the same time, also at that point in time before that,。
serving in a church over in Chinatown at CCUC.。
And then from that point, I worked at Moody Bible Institute for a number of three years.。
And then now for the last 10 years, I work at Resource Global,。
and Wheaton College, Northern Seminary for a period of time.。
Lord, is that what you're calling me to do?。
I thought it was building cell towers, or rather that.。
I went to college thinking I was going to medical school.。
God calls us to do different things.。
So today, he calls this particular person,。
and we're going to look at that person,。
and we're going to glean some stories that he talks in.。
What the whole idea is, what is God calling you to do right now?。
And can you and I be faithful to where God has placed us in?。
Because God, for a period of time, has called you at that point in time,。
at that point in place, to make a difference for the gospel.。
We start in Judges 6.。
I studied this for a number of years.。
And it is such a powerful--it begins with this whole idea,。
"The people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord.。
And the Lord gave them into the hand of Midian for seven years.。
And the hand of Midian overpowered Israel.。
And because of Midian, the people of Israel made for themselves。
the debris that are in the mountains and the caves and the strongholds.。
For whenever the Israelites planted crops to Midianites and the Amalekites。
and the people of the east would come up against them.。
They would encamp against them and devour the produce of the land as far as Gaza。
and leave no sustenance in Israel and no sheep or ox or donkey.。
For they would come up with their livestock in their tents.。
They would come like locusts in numbers.。
Both they and their camels could not be counted,。
so that they laid waste to land as they came in.。
And Israel was brought very low because of Midian.。
And the people of Israel cried out for help in the Lord.。
Don't ever misinterpret how God uses events in our life to turn us back to him.。
And too often with the Israelites, time and time and time again,。
the Israelites go and do whatever they want to do.。
But yet God uses situations and circumstances in our life。
to call and draw us back to them.。
And some of those circumstances may be trials in hard times.。
And here we see an example of that in the hands of the Midian.。
When the people of Israel in John chapter, Judges chapter 6, verse 7,。
when the people of Israel cried out to the Lord on count of the Midianites,。
the Lord sent a prophet to the people of Israel, and he said to them,。
"Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel,。
'I led you up from Egypt and brought you out of the house of bondage,。
and I delivered you from the hands of the Egyptians。
and from the hand of all who oppressed you,。
and drove them out before you and gave you their land.。
And I said to you, 'I am the Lord your God,。
and you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell,。
but you have not obeyed my voice.'"。
And now the angel of the Lord, when the angel of the Lord appears,。
you listen to him, "came and sat down on the terebth at Oprah," in verse 11,。
"which belonged to Joash the Abyssalite,。
while his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the winepress。
to hide it from the Midianites."。
And here's a key verse, and we've looked at it before, verse 12,。
"And the angel of the Lord appeared to him and says to him,。
'The Lord is with you, O mighty man of valor.'"。
In verse 12, "The Lord says to him, 'The Lord is with you, O mighty man of valor.'"。
If you were to look at the NIV, I'm reading from the ESV,。
if you were to look at the NIV, it says, "O mighty, mighty warrior."。
"The Lord is with you, O mighty warrior."。
And when you're looking at that, your first thought is,。
"Wait a minute, Lord, why are you calling him a mighty warrior?"。
That is the verse that sticks out.。
Why is the angel of the Lord calling him a mighty warrior?。
Why is that?。
He's threshing wheat in a winepress.。
That and being a mighty warrior don't go hand in hand.。
And you're wondering why.。
Because if you go into it, it's harvest time, right?。
It is harvest time, the wheat is ready to be harvested,。
and you're pulling out all of the wheat, and you pull out all the stalks。
and everything like that, and you usually grab all your wheat,。
and you lay out on top of a threshing floor.。
And a threshing floor is usually an inclined space out in the open,。
on a hill and everything like that, and you'll understand exactly what it is,。
and you'll lay out all your wheat on the threshing floor.。
And from that point on, if you have a lot of wheat, you'll get your oxen,。
you'll get your horses, you'll get all that stuff,。
and you're going to stomp on it, stomp on it, stomp on it.。
If you have a tiny little harvest, you'll take a little flail or hammer,。
and you sit there and you'll hit the wheat over and over and over again,。
and it separates the stalks and it separates the head.。
And from that point on, once you do that, remember it's out in the open,。
you'll take a little rake or a winnowing fork, and you'll sit there。
and you'll lift it high and you'll throw it high up in the air.。
And it separates the two areas.。
It separates the heavier grain on one side and the straw on the other side.。
And then there's seed covering the chaff, and as you're throwing it up。
with this winnowing fork, it's blowing all over.。
And that's why it has to be up on an inclined space out in the open。
where there's a lot of breeze that blows everything away.。
And that is threshing wheat on the threshing floor.。
But where is this guy at? He's in--what? He's threshing wheat where?。
In a wine press. What's a wine press?。
It's literally a hole, a rectangular hole, in which when I stand in there,。
it goes up to my waist, and you lay out all your grapes right there.。
And you sit there and you stomp on it.。
And there's a little hole which leads to a set of cisterns or jars。
and everything like that.。
And as soon as you sit there and you stomp on it and you stomp on it。
and you stomp on it, all the juice rolls into a cistern.。
But yet it's not an inclined space.。
And yet he is threshing wheat. In where?。
In a wine press.。
And the angel of the Lord, the Lord, the angel of the Lord calls him,。
"The Lord is with you, mighty warrior."。
And when you're sitting there in verse 12, looking at it,。
you're sitting there, "Okay, Lord, what are you seeing?。
He's not a mighty warrior.。
He's afraid. He's a coward.。
So why are you calling him a mighty warrior?"。
Two things, two things, two very important things.。
Number one, the Lord sees you differently.。
The how you see yourself and not how others see you.。
The Lord sees you differently to how you see yourself。
and how others see you.。
The Lord sees in him Gideon, a mighty warrior.。
We see in him a guy who's afraid.。
That's why he's threshing wheat on the wine press.。
We see a guy who's scared.。
We see a guy who lacks courage.。
And we don't understand what God is trying to say to him.。
"The Lord is with you, almighty man of valor.。
The Lord is with you, mighty warrior." Yes!。
Because God sees you differently。
to how you see yourselves and how others see you.。
That's number one.。
Number two, in terms of this, God has a name for you.。
God has a purpose for you.。
God has a vision for you.。
For Gideon was a mighty man of valor, mighty warrior.。
What's the name that he has for you?。
What's the name that you believe that he's calling you to be?。
If we all sat here in a group and had an exercise。
and we got a chance to brag each other,。
and I know a lot of times primarily with us Asians。
and other stuff is we don't like to talk,。
we don't like to brag about ourselves,。
but we are familiar with what skills and gifts we do have.。
What's the name that he's given to you?。
What vision does he have for your life?。
For Gideon is the mighty warrior.。
Maybe for Mark, a lot of times, it's leadership。
or it's shepherding or something like that, administrative.。
Maybe it's the ability to convene people.。
Maybe it's the ability to inspire people.。
Maybe it's the ability to build together a team。
or whatever it is.。
Maybe a lot of times your intellect is so brilliant。
because that's how God is going to--。
he's using you to do things and change education.。
Maybe it's because your skill, you're going to change healthcare.。
Whatever it is, what is that vision?。
Maybe it's being an engineer to create innovative tools.。
What is that vision in your life?。
As we continue to seek the Lord,。
what is he calling us in our life?。
There's this one lady that I got a chance to meet.。
She's Filipino, and if you came, she's very quiet,。
and she would just sit there, and you probably wouldn't even know her.。
Her name is Nikki.。
But what you don't know about Nikki is she is a brilliant lady.。
She is extremely talented, teaches part-time at Stanford University.。
Then she's an entrepreneur, started working in education,。
worked in colleges and universities and the executive level,。
but then she started realizing she doesn't have a medical degree。
and all that stuff.。
She was great at entrepreneurial things.。
She was great at starting up and launching different ideas.。
Now she teaches part-time at Stanford.。
She's the founding CEO of a company that is working with。
artificial intelligence and nanobots to replace--。
Kelly, what is that thing when you put oxygen in your--。
- [Kelly] The nasal canthopathy?。
- Something like that, where it puts oxygen in your--。
You can breathe through oxygen, right?。
I completely blanked on it.。
That's what she's working on right now.。
And why in the world was she doing that?。
Because during COVID, her mother died because she wasn't getting。
enough oxygen in her body.。
And she's a single older lady, and she started searching。
while she was in San Francisco with her mother passing away.。
How do we address this problem?。
Because her mother was at older age, and she wasn't able to get。
enough oxygen.。
They weren't able to put enough oxygen in her body, and she。
passed because of COVID.。
And God used that experience as hard as it was as a Christ follower。
to look and address the problem.。
And she started finding out these different doctors and what they're。
doing, and through her entrepreneurial skill, launched this entire。
company that she's doing to change how she integrates her faith。
in her work.。
What is the name that God has given us?。
Gideon, it was "Mighty Warrior."。
What is the name that he has given you?。
Because how God looks at you, how God sees you, is different than。
the picture that we see of ourselves and that others see us.。
Go on, and Gideon says to her, "Please, sir, if the Lord is with。
us, then why then has all this happened to us?。
And were all his wonderful deeds that our fathers recounted to us。
saying, 'Did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt?'。
But now the Lord has forsaken us and given us into the hand of。
Midian.'。
And the Lord turned to him and says, 'Go in this might of yours。
and save Israel from the hand of Midian.'。
Do not I send you?'。
And verse 15, "And he said to him, 'Please, Lord, how can I save。
Israel?。
Because my clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in。
my father's home.'"。
Take a look at that.。
You know how Gideon saw himself?。
The angel of the Lord, the Lord sees him as mighty warrior.。
Gideon himself sees him as the weakest clan and him as the。
weakest in the weakest clan.。
"Behold, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh."。
Of all these clans that we have here, my clan is the weakest, and。
I am the least in my father's home.。
You don't understand this.。
My clan of all the clans is the weakest, and I am the weakest in。
the weakest clan.。
You know where that put me?。
Dead last, dead last.。
That's how Gideon sees himself.。
That was the name that he has given himself.。
He has defined himself as someone who couldn't accomplish much。
because I am the weakest in the weakest clan of everyone, and I。
am last, and what in the world can you do for me?。
And now here I am threshing wheat in a wine press because I'm。
scared of the Midianites, and even though this threshing wheat。
on the threshing floor is not gonna cut it in the threshing,。
I'll take whatever I can get because my name is defined by。
being in the weakest clan and me being the weakest.。
What defines you?。
What are the insecurities that you have?。
How do you see yourself?。
How do you look at yourself in the mirror?。
Are you not the smartest?。
Are you not the brightest?。
And you may have all of these ideas, and if you look at the。
story in verse 16, the Lord said to him, "But I will be with you,。
and you shall strike the Midianites as one man."。
Do you not see what's happening here?。
When you look at the verses, you know what the Lord never says。
to Gideon?。
He never disagrees with him.。
When he says to him, "My clan is the weakest, and menace I am,。
and the weakest in my weakest clan," the Lord never disagrees。
with him.。
The Lord doesn't say to Gideon, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, your clan's。
not the weakest.。
So-and-so, I think, is the weaker one.。
Look, you're not the weakest of the weakest clan, all right?。
Maybe you're not the weakest, but you're not the weakest.。
So-and-so probably is weak."。
No, he doesn't disagree with him.。
He doesn't say otherwise.。
He agrees with him.。
He says, "Go in the strength that you have."。
That when you and I sit here, "Lord, I'm not that smart."。
You know what the Lord says?。
"I know.。
Lord, I'm not that talented.。
I know.。
Lord, do you not know the history that I came from?。
Do you not know how bad I was, my family, the path I came in?。
Yes, I know.。
Lord, I came through a poor family.。
My parents immigrated here.。
My parents immigrated in '72, and a lot of times, I don't know。
how to operate in these worlds.。
I know.。
You don't have that experience.。
I know, I know, I know.。
Lord, I'm a little socially awkward.。
I get a little shy.。
I don't know what to say.。
I know.。
I know.。
I know.。
You know why I know?。
Because I made you.。
I created you.。
I painted your life.。
I designed your entire path in your life.。
I know what's going to happen in your life.。
I know these things.。
I gave you your strengths.。
I gave you your weaknesses.。
You're stuck, Gideon, that you just see what you have.。
You come from the weakest clan, and you're the weakest in the。
weakest clan.。
But despite all that, Gideon, you're a mighty warrior, because。
that's the vision I have for you.。
What's the vision that he has for your life?。
And how is that manipulated by sometimes the name that we have。
given to ourselves?。
My biggest encouragement to each one of you, and those who are。
watching, those who are sitting here, don't you ever, ever let。
anyone say anything, because your age, your sex, the color of。
your skin, your education, how wealthy you are, how bright you。
are, the quality of your work, your job title, all of that,。
don't ever let people look down on you.。
You come before the Lord each and every single day.。
You say, "Lord, what is it that you're calling me to do?。
And whatever path you ask me to do, I will be faithful to that,。
and I will give you the best I can to glorify and honor you,。
because you have called me to do it with excellence and to。
continue to pursue the calling that you have for your life."。
And we may not know what that calling is.。
God may not reveal to you what that calling is.。
It may take 20 years.。
It may take five years.。
But we're pursuing every single day, and we are faithful every。
single day, and we are coming before the Lord to seek what。
that means.。
Let me give you an example of that.。
Here's an example.。
And I hope as I tell you this story, you're going to sit。
there, "Tommy, what are you trying to do?"。
It's not me bragging about myself, but this is what I。
learned about faith, work, integration, right?。
When I graduated from Washington University in St.。
Louis, I actually didn't know what I was going to do.。
I had no job.。
And so I got introduced to a guy who introduced me to a。
company that built cell towers for a living.。
And so a lot of times I got a job.。
I had no engineering degree.。
I was a general management major.。
And a lot of times, where am I going to go to work?。
I don't know.。
So I get an introduction.。
I get an interview.。
I sat with this guy named Mike Mitchell, and he's a director。
at Tower Operations.。
Later on, I reported this guy named Dan.。
But Mike sits there, and he looks at my resume, and he。
says, "Did you have an internship?"。
"Nope."。
"Do you have an engineering degree?"。
"Nope."。
"Do you have any experience in the cell phone industry?"。
"Nope."。
And he puts it down.。
He says, "Tell me why I need to hire you.。
Just give me a reason why."。
And I said, "There's no reason why you should hire me."。
And he looks at me, and he says, "Really?"。
"Yes, there's no reason why you should hire me, but give。
me one year.。
I will work as hard as I can, and I will give you everything。
I have, and I will learn this business, and in one year,。
I will make a difference in this company."。
He says, "Oh, yeah.。
I like your answer.。
You're hired."。
And so the first thing that he says, I get to work, and he。
says, "We just acquired 200 towers from Verizon Wireless,。
and those cell towers and all the file folders and all the。
construction drawings all came in, but here's my problem.。
They didn't put any order to it, so they're all in different--。
they're all in this room.。
Your first job for the next five months, go organize。
the file room."。
I'm a college grad from Washington University in St.。
Louis.。
I was a pre-med major.。
You want me to be a file room, yes?。
And the Lord said to me, "Tommy, wherever I put you, may。
you be faithful to where I place you."。
And so I went, and I had the best attitude because, "Lord,。
I don't know why you put me here, but whatever it is, let。
me be faithful to where you have put me."。
And I learned that file room really well, and I learned to。
tell the difference between FAA, FCC, environmental, structural。
analysis, everything.。
But what I didn't realize during all that time was God was in。
the midst of working and creating me the habits, the。
discipline of looking at details and being organized and seeing。
structure every single day for five to six months.。
I had to look at these details.。
After that five months was over, a lot of times they promoted me。
over to scanner guy.。
I had to scan all these documents.。
I said, "Oh, my gosh, I've got to scan everything, create a。
system to scan everything."。
So I did that for another four months.。
During that period of time, I had this one guy named Dan.。
He was our project director, and he says, "Tommy, you've done。
really well.。
Get some files and meet me every single day," and we did this。
for three months at 5 o'clock, and I will show you what it。
means to be a project manager.。
We did that for another three months.。
So all together, I'm now in my company for nine months, and。
after that, they promoted me as project manager with no。
engineering skills or anything like that.。
Here's a couple of other things as well, too.。
Now I had a rough boss, but, Lord, are you helping me?。
Are you working with me?。
Are we faithful to where our -- the one thing I encourage you。
wherever you are, are you faithful to where God has。
placed you to be?。
Here I am as a project manager, and now I am working on the。
Sprint project, and usually a lot of times you're building。
20 towers.。
This year, I had to build 40 towers, and then one day, I'm in。
a deployment meeting at Sprint, and there's this guy named。
Sonny Peterman.。
He's the vice president of our region.。
Sonny, you should never work for a boss like that.。
The guy was a crook.。
I mean, the guy was just terrorizing.。
So he walks in, and he sits down unannounced, and the guy。
from Sprint -- now, back in the days, we had audio。
conferencing and he says to me, "Tommy, can you get this done?"。
And I said to him, "I will try my best."。
Sonny then says to the guy at Sprint, "Let me mute you, and。
I'll get right back to you."。
And he mutes him, and he says, "Tommy, can you get this job。
done?"。
And I said to Sonny, "I will try."。
And you know what he says to me?。
"I don't care if you try.。
I didn't hire you to try.。
I hired you to get this job done.。
Now, if you can't get this done, I will fire you right now and。
replace you with someone who can.。
Can you get the job done?"。
I says, "I will."。
And he unmutes me and says, "We'll get the job done."。
He walks out of there and says, "Always remember, don't try。
hard.。
Get the job done."。
And he walks out.。
A year later, and this is the biggest lesson I learned, and it。
ties in with everything that we're talking about a year。
later.。
Sonny comes in, and we have an employee gathering, and he says,。
"This year's Employee of the Year is Tommy Lee."。
And he says, "Tommy Lee, wherever I go, in all of the。
travels, and all the -- when I talk with clients like AT&T,。
Sprint, and Verizon, they all say, 'If Tommy Lee's on the job,。
we'll hire you and give you the business.'。
All of the sales development, all of our -- and when I talk。
with the janitors, they all know who this guy is.。
And then I talk with him, and all of us go out to the bars on。
Fridays, but this guy goes to his church and works with his。
youth.。
That's why I hear him.。
And he says to this, he says, "I don't follow Jesus, but if this。
is what it means to follow Jesus, then sign me up."。
And he says that.。
And you know what happened after that?。
I had a girl who comes over to me, and she was my admin.。
And she says, "Tommy, how are you so joyful?。
I've had three miscarriages.。
How do you see God in the midst of all these things?"。
I had another guy, his name was Patrick.。
Patrick would go out to the bars all the time.。
Patrick was always getting drunk.。
And he says to me, "Tommy, what keeps you going?。
What's your purpose in life?。
Because I haven't found it yet."。
My boss, Dan, who promoted me as project manager, calls me up one。
day and says, "Tommy, I need you to stay after work.。
I need to talk with you about something."。
I walk in after work, and he says, "Hey, Tommy, my daughter。
has been diagnosed with a heart issue.。
Can you pray for me?。
Can we spend some time praying?"。
And during Christmas, I would give their names,。
give them all Bibles.。
And that was what I did for Christmas, and I would put their。
name on it and gave it to each one of them.。
And during my cancer journey when I was gone,。
I got these Facebook messages.。
And this is now 10 years later.。
And I get these Facebook messages.。
One of them was from Erin, the girl who had three miscarriages,。
and says to me, "Tommy, I have three beautiful daughters now.。
I lead the VBS in their church.。
I came to know the Lord, and I read your Bible.。
Your Bible's still with me."。
The other guy, Patrick, Patrick says to me, "Tommy, I'm still,。
like, going out all the time and drinking, but I got married.。
But I did start going to church, and your Bible's the one that I。
bring to church every single day."。
Dan, these are all 10 years later, his wife calls me up。
and says to me, "I saw on Facebook that you were。
struggling with cancer.。
Your former boss, Dan, is also struggling with cancer.。
Can you call him because your Bible is still sitting right。
there by his bedside?"。
You never know how God uses you.。
You never know what God is calling you to do,。
all because you do your job well.。
And you are faithful to wherever God has called you to be.。
Whether it's a job that you can't stand,。
whether it's a job that you hate,。
whether it's a job where you just don't like the industry,。
where you don't like your characters, all of those things,。
are you faithful to where God has placed you at?。
And are you always praying and asking,。
"What is that vision that you have for me?。
What are you preparing me to do?"。
For Gideon, he leads him on this journey.。
This guy who is at the weakest of all of the clans,。
that he is the weakest, he is the lowest of all the clans,。
God is preparing him to be the leader of--。
to fight against the minions.。
He is going to be their victor.。
What is God preparing you to be?。
And how is God using all the things that you're doing right。
now in your job to prepare you for what you're doing right now?。
Because you don't know.。
He may call you now.。
He may be calling you 10 years from now,。
do something unique or--。
what he's calling you to do is be faithful.。
If you look at Nehemiah, he didn't call him until the late。
'70s, but he was faithful as compared to the king.。
And when it was time to rebuild the walls,。
do you know what the king did?。
His boss, the king, gave him time off,。
gave him all the money that he need,。
gave him all the papers that he need to get all of those。
different things, and gave him all the resources and materials.。
Why?。
Because he liked Nehemiah and he had nothing better to do?。
No.。
He was faithful as compared to the king.。
Do your job well.。
Be faithful day in and day out in your job.。
Make such a difference and impact in your job that you leave。
a lasting impact on the lives of people around you,。
that when you walk away from that job,。
they're going to sit there and say, "Wow, look at that person.。
I'm able to see Jesus through that person."。
That's what it means to be a Christ follower.。
That means you treat the janitors well.。
That means you treat the admins well.。
That means you treat your boss well.。
That means that every single person you treat well,。
that you do a good job, that you are productive,。
that because God has put me in that situation,。
I will honor my boss by doing my work with such excellence.。
It glorifies God in all that we do.。
And during that time, you are always praying,。
"Lord, what is that vision that you have given me?。
What are you calling me to do?"。
Because God may choose and show you different things。
that he wants you to do.。
That's so important about faith and work.。
Sixty percent of our day is spent at work.。
God calls us to work.。
God calls us to flourish and redeem.。
God has given you skills and talents to change your city,。
to change your community, to change your work,。
to make this world a different place.。
What is God calling you to do?。
What is the picture and name that he has given you?。
For Gideon, it was "Mighty Warrior."。
But too often, our insecurities causes us to look past。
what God is calling us to do.。
And for Gideon, he had to get past that insecurity。
of being from the weakest clan。
and being the weakest in the weakest clan.。
What is God calling you to do?。
We are motivated by grace.。
We are saved by grace.。
The cross causes us, motivates us to be where we are.。
Our job now is to take that grace that we have in our life。
and to make a difference in all that we do.。
In Christ we pray. Amen.。
Father, thank you for how you continue to serve and use us,。
how you've created us to become the person you want us to be.。
And so, Lord, may you continue to paint that journey over to us。
and allow us to see what that name that you have given us is, Lord.。
What is that name you have given us?。
How have you uniquely designed us to flourish。
and change this world and redeem this world for you?。
I pray all of us will be in that journey to see you.。
In Christ we pray. Amen.。
Thank you. Thanks, Mark.。
