Hello, brothers and sisters.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So one things that I like to do in my free time。
is I like to go climbing.。
So naturally, my social media algorithms,。
they would always suggest to me all sorts。
of climbing-related content.。
And a few months ago, I actually bumped。
into this very heartwarming YouTube shorts。
posted by-- she's a professional climber and also。
a former Olympian from the UK.。
And in this YouTube shorts, she brought her daughter。
to climb outdoors.。
And you can see that her daughter,。
she was very determined to climb this climb all by herself。
without the mom's help.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So a few moves into the climb, however,。
she started to panic a little bit when things。
got a little more challenging.。
And her emotions began to come out.。
You can see the dilemma here.。
On one hand, she wanted to do the climb all by herself.。
So she didn't want her mom to help her at all.。
But on the other hand, she was getting a little scared.。
And her natural instinct just came up。
to ask her mom for help.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So I think we can all resonate with the feelings of the daughter。
here when we are faced with some sort of adversities。
and challenge, right?。
Maybe you're feeling stuck in your life.。
And you're just having a hard time figuring out。
what is the next steps.。
Or maybe you're in some sort of crisis moment.。
And you just can't seem to figure a way out.。
Or maybe some of us, you are confronted by your own fears.。
Will my marriage or my relationship last?。
Or what if I lose my job?。
Or what if my friends or people that I love。
actually abandon or leave me?。
And in these moments of doubt, how do you usually respond?。
What would you do in the face of adversity?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So this morning, we are going to look。
at the third major judge in the book of "Judges," that。
is, Deborah.。
The cycle of Deborah is actually quite unique。
because it spans across two chapters.。
And it consists of a story and a song.。
So "Judges 4," that is the one that we'll be looking in today,。
is in the form of a story.。
That is the narrative portion of this cycle.。
While "Judges 5" is in the form of a poem.。
That is the song portion of this cycle.。
And so we'll actually spend two Sundays。
in this cycle of Deborah alone.。
But again, for this morning, we're。
going to focus on the narrative portion of the cycle.。
That is "Judges 4."。
And again, we will explore these questions together.。
What should we do in the face of adversities and doubt?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so today, instead of having the passage up on a screen。
and trying to do something different,。
so I want to encourage you to open your own Bible,。
physically or digitally, and follow along with our passage.。
Because there will be some clues that's earlier in our passage。
that will only get fully reviewed at the end.。
And I think it is actually more effective for us。
to learn from God's word by having the whole passage。
in our hand, rather than seeing it section by section。
on the screen, where I can only show a limited amount of verses。
every time.。
And if you don't have a Bible or you。
don't have a way to access it, I also。
printed out a few physical copies。
that you can come up to the table and grab.。
And so to apologize, I forgot to print out the Mandarin version.。
So there's an English copy of "Judges 4"。
up there if you want to come up and grab them.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
OK, everyone ready?。
We're going to start with "Judges 4" verse 1.。
"So again, the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord,。
now that Ehud was dead.。
So the Lord sold them into the hands of Jabin, king of Canaan,。
who reigned in Hazor.。
Sisera, the commander of his army,。
was based in Harosheth Hagoyim.。
Because he and 900 chariots fitted with iron。
and had cruelly oppressed the Israelites for 20 years,。
they cried out to the Lord for help."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so right here at the first verse,。
we're immediately being connected to our narrative。
back to the previous judge, that is Ehud.。
And if you recall from my previous sermon,。
after Ehud had defeated Eglon, king of Moab,。
the land of Israel, they enjoyed a period of peace。
for 80 years.。
But right after these 80 years, after Ehud had died,。
this cycle repeats itself again.。
And we see that Israel does evil in the eyes of the Lord.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And this time, the Lord actually used Jabin, king of Canaan,。
and also his commander, Sisera, to oppress Israel.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
One advantage of Sisera's army here。
was that they had 900 iron chariots.。
And so iron chariots was kind of like the top-of-the-line。
technology in warfare during that time.。
When a war is fought over on flat land or coastal plains,。
it actually provides a huge advantage for this iron chariots。
army compared to just regular foot soldiers.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And as a result of their oppressions from Sisera,。
Israel once again cried out to the Lord for help.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And now let's look together in verse 4 and 5.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Now Deborah, a prophet, the wife of Lapidoth,。
was leading or judging Israel at that time.。
She held court under the palm of Deborah。
between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim.。
And the Israelites went up to her to have their disputes。
decided.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so right here, we're being introduced to Deborah.。
Deborah was a prophetess by profession,。
or a more direct translation is that she was a woman prophet.。
I'm not going to spoil the rest of the story for you now,。
but women will actually play a significant role in our story。
today.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And besides being a prophet or prophetess,。
we also learned that she was judging Israel at that time.。
And what this means is that Deborah, in some way,。
she was Israel's decision maker.。
And we see that people from all over Israel,。
they will come to her to have their dispute decided.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And not only that, we will learn that she。
was also a representative and spoke person。
on behalf of the Lord in the following verses.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so let's continue with verse 6.。
"She sent for Barak, son of Abinoam,。
from Kadesh in Naphtali, and say to him,。
the Lord, the God of Israel, commands you,。
go, take with you 10,000 men from Naphtali and Zebelin,。
and lead them up to Mount Tabor.。
I will lead Sisera, the commander of Jabin's army,。
with his chariots and his troops to the Kishon River。
and give him into your hands."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so even though Deborah, she was judging Israel。
at that time, she did not command the army of Israel.。
And so she sent for Barak.。
There are not many details about Barak here,。
but from what we can gather, he is from the tribe of Naphtali,。
and he was also chosen by God to be Israel's deliverer.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And according to Deborah, Barak's role。
was pretty straightforward.。
That is, to go and to gather the troops to Mount Tabor。
and to call up the warriors from the tribes of Naphtali。
and Zebelin.。
And then the Lord himself, he will。
give Sisera and his army into the hands of Barak.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so Deborah's message here is very clear.。
There is a command from God, and there's a promise of victory.。
And so the command is for Barak to gather his army。
and lead them into the battlefield.。
And then the promise is that the Lord。
will grant Israel their victory over Sisera and his army,。
even though Sisera has military advantage。
with his iron chariots.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
But this is Barak's response here in verse 8.。
"Barak said to her, if you go with me, I will go.。
But if you don't go with me, then I won't go."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So even though with the victory guaranteed,。
Barak, he still feel a little uncertain.。
And so he started to negotiate a little bit,。
giving Deborah his conditions or his terms for obedience.。
If you, Deborah, go with me, then I。
will obey your command and go.。
But if you don't go with me, then I won't go.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Barak's hesitancy here is not without reason.。
From a personal level, we learn that he。
is from the tribe of Naphtali.。
And when we go back to the first chapter in Judges,。
we see that the tribes of Naphtali。
actually failed to drive out the Canaanites living in their land.。
And so from Barak's perspective, this failure from his tribe。
might have added some doubts into his mind。
when he received this divine message from Deborah.。
And so instead of obeying, he shows。
some degree of disobedience.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And if we take a step back and zoom out from this narrative。
back to the big picture of Judges,。
we know that the book of Judges in some way。
is an evaluation of whether or not。
Israel, as God's holy nation, will remain faithful。
and obedient to the Lord.。
And so as a nation, Barak's response。
here actually gave us some spiritual insights。
into the life of Israel's leaders,。
especially after the death of Moses and his successor,。
Joshua.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So now I want us to ask ourselves this question.。
What will we do in the face of adversities and doubts?。
And how will we respond when we're。
being asked to do something that we are not comfortable with?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
I think we cannot relate to Barak in this situation.。
A lot of time, we want to trust God.。
We really want to trust God.。
But we want to trust him in our own terms。
or in ways that we are comfortable。
and that is convenient for us.。
And so our response may look like this.。
Lord, I will start giving if you give me a raise at my work.。
Or Lord, I will start loving my neighbor next door。
if they can just stop playing music so loud every night.。
Or Lord, I will start serving at church on Sunday。
if my boss would just stop scheduling me to work on Saturday.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And do you see the issues here?。
Do you think God will be pleased with this kind of obedience。
and incomplete faith?。
In fact, it is well within reason。
for God to take offense with this kind of incomplete faith。
and half-hearted obedience, right?。
Just imagine this.。
If you ask your son to take the trash out after dinner,。
and this is how he responds to you,。
he says, yeah, sure, but only if you give me more pocket money。
or you increase my weekly allowance.。
If you are the parents here, you will probably。
feel quite disappointed and offended, right?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
However, we know that our God is a loving and patient father.。
And so even though Barak's faith is incomplete。
at this point of the story, God doesn't just abandon him,。
but he will patiently prove his own trustworthiness。
and faithfulness to Barak in order。
to rehabilitate Barak's faith.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So let's come back to our passage。
here and continue in verse 9.。
So verse 9, "Certainly I will go with you, saith Deborah.。
But because of the course or the way that you are taking,。
the honor will not be yours.。
For the Lord will deliver Sisera into the hands of a woman."。
So Deborah went with Barak to Kadesh.。
There, Barak summoned Zebulun and Naphtali,。
and 10,000 men went up under his command.。
Deborah also went up with him.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So there are a few ways for us to understand verse 9 here.。
The most straightforward reading might lead us to think that。
because Barak shows some signs of doubt,。
God is kind of like changing his mind。
to teach Barak a lesson by taking away the honor from him.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
However, there's actually a better way。
to understand this, that this is actually not a punishment。
for Barak, rather it is a clarification。
of God's initial promise.。
God's promise to him still stands,。
that victory will still belong to Barak and Israel.。
However, Deborah added a crucial detail here in the plot.。
Because of the course or because of the way in verse 9。
that Barak is taking, the Lord will deliver Sisera。
into the hands of a woman, not the military commander。
or his army.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And despite Barak's incomplete faith,。
God chose to show his faithfulness by actually。
accommodating to Barak's term, that Deborah will indeed。
go with him into the battle.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And then verse 11.。
"Now Herber, the Canaanite, had left the other Canaanites,。
the descendants of Hobah, Moses' brother or father-in-law,。
and pitched his tent by the great tree。
in Zananim near Kadesh."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So this verse right here, verse 11,。
we actually find a break in the main storyline.。
And we're being introduced to this family。
called Herber, the Canaanite.。
So even though this verse probably doesn't progress。
the plot at this point, but this Canaanite family,。
and especially the tent that they live in,。
will play an important part later in our story.。
So just keep that in mind.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So let's continue with our story in verse 12 to 15.。
"When they told Sisera that Barak, son of Abinoam,。
had gone up to Mount Tabor, Sisera。
summoned from Harosheth-hagoim to the Kishon River。
all his men and his 900 iron chariots.。
Then Deborah said to Barak, go.。
This is the day the Lord has given Sisera into your hands.。
Has not the Lord gone ahead of you?。
And so Barak went down Mount Tabor。
with 10,000 men following him.。
And at Barak's advance, the Lord routed Sisera。
and all his chariots and army by the sword.。
And Sisera got down from his chariots and fled on foot."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so here in verse 14, Deborah once again。
reminds Barak of the promised victory from the Lord.。
And so not only did she go physically with Barak,。
in order to build up his faith, the Lord。
also used Deborah to remind and reassure Barak。
at opportune times that the Lord had already。
given Sisera into his hands.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And as the Lord promised, we see that he routed the Canaanites。
army, and Sisera actually had to abandon his chariots。
and flee on foot.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And then in verse 16, "Barak pursued the chariots。
and his army as far as Harosheth Hagoyim,。
and all Sisera's troops fell by the sword.。
Not a man was left."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so if you remember at the beginning of our passage,。
Harosheth Hagoyim is where Sisera and his army was based.。
So Sisera's army, they retreated all the way back to their base.。
And if you look at the map, Harosheth Hagoyim。
is the circle on the left.。
And it is west of Mount Tabor.。
And so we know that Barak, in order to pursue them,。
he went west.。
So keep that in mind again.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And verse 17, "Sisera, meanwhile, fled on foot to the tent of Jael,。
the wife of Herber the Canaan, because there。
was an alliance between Jabin, king of Hazor,。
and the family of Herber the Canaan."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So this is where the mystery, the information from verse 11。
started to make a little sense.。
Here, we're being introduced to another character, Jael,。
who is the wife of Herber the Canaan from verse 11.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And why did Sisera actually flee to the tent of Jael?。
We learned that her husband has some sort of political ties。
with Jabin, king of Canaan.。
And so Sisera, in his mind, he probably。
thought that he could get some help from this ally of theirs.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And if you look at the map again, the tent of Jael。
is situated in Za'ananim, which is east of Mount Tabor.。
That is the circle on the right.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Yes, so we know Sisera headed east.。
So at this point, we started to get more clarity。
on what Deborah means in verse 9.。
When she told Barak that because of the course。
or because of the way that he is taking--。
that is, he is heading west--。
the owner would not be his, because Barak。
is literally heading in the wrong direction。
in pursuit of Sisera.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And as for Jael, we don't know much。
about her own political allegiance.。
However, the important thing here。
is to know that she is not part of Israel.。
And physically, she also lives at least 10 miles away。
from the battlefield.。
And so this reinforced the narrative。
that she is the least likely person, the least likely。
character to participate in this battle.。
And yet, her appearance will actually。
set the stage for the most unexpected way。
the Lord would deliver Israel.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So let's look at verse 18 to 21, "So Jael went out to meet。
Sisera and say to him, come, my lord, come right in.。
Don't be afraid.。
So he entered her tent, and she covered him with a blanket.。
I am thirsty, he said.。
Please give me some water.。
And so she opened a skin of milk, gave him a drink,。
and covered him up.。
Stand in the doorway of the tent, he told her.。
If someone comes by and asks you, is anyone in there,。
say no.。
But Jael, Herbert's wife, picked up a tent peg and hammer。
and went quietly to him while he lay fast asleep, exhausted.。
She drove the tent peg through his temple into the ground,。
and he died."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so now, the promise is fulfilled,。
and there is no ambiguity left.。
Just as the Lord promised through Deborah,。
he delivers Sisera into the hands of a woman.。
This woman is not Deborah herself, but it is Jael,。
who is the least likely person in this story.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And then verse 22.。
"Just then, Barak came by in pursuit of Sisera,。
and Jael went out to meet him.。
'Come,' she said, 'I will show you。
the man you are looking for.'。
So he went in with her, and there。
lay Sisera with the tent peg through his temple, dead."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so through Jael's invitation into her tent,。
Barak himself got to witness how the Lord fulfilled his promise.。
And I can imagine that at this moment,。
seeing what had happened in front of him,。
the commander of the enemy, who had cruelly。
oppressed Israel for the past 20 years,。
now laying dead on the ground.。
Barak probably gained a greater faith and confidence。
in the Lord at this moment.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And even though Barak shows some signs of spiritual weakness。
and trying to negotiate with God's command,。
God, on the other hand, continued to show his patience。
and his faithfulness to Barak.。
And he did so by using both women in the story, Deborah。
as the messenger and Jael as the executor of the promise,。
to show Barak that his words never fail。
and he can be fully trusted.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So let's finish up.。
Verse 23, "On that day, God subdued Jabin, king of Canaan,。
before the Israelites.。
And the hand of the Israelites pressed harder and harder。
against Jabin, king of Canaan, until they destroyed him."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so here's the main idea that I want us to take away with us。
today, that we can lean on the Lord,。
even in the midst of adversities or doubts,。
because he is trustworthy and his promise never fail.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And this is the invitation that lies before us.。
Would you trust him?。
Would you hold on to God's promise,。
even when life seems out of control?。
And would you choose the way of Jesus,。
even when it is inconvenient or uncomfortable?。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And so I want to end my sermon by showing the full YouTube。
shorts of the mom bringing her daughter to climb.。
And as you watch later, I want to draw your attention。
to these two very different perspectives,。
from the daughter's perspective and the mom's perspective.。
And so from the daughter's perspective,。
when she is at the brink of a breakdown,。
her doubts and fears affects her trust in her mom,。
as well as her mom's ability to keep her safe.。
But from the mom's perspective, her daughter。
is actually never in danger, because she。
is right there with her.。
And instead of letting the mutual trust of her daughter。
to get into her, the mom patiently guides her daughter。
step by step and lovingly encourages her。
until she gets to the top.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So let's watch it together.。
Man, nice work, man, oh, great work.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Nice, bud.。
Great work, buddy.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Oh, yeah.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
To your left, mate.。
There you go.。
Well done, buddy.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So it is the same when it comes to our life.。
When we see things from our own limited perspective,。
we can easily lose faith when we are confronted。
by our own doubts and fear.。
But if we can learn to lean on the Lord。
and look at things from His perspective,。
we would know that we can fully trust Him,。
because He is always right there with us,。
and He is always trustworthy.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So, Church, let's continue to grow our faith in Him.。
Let's pray.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Lord, thank you for being a faithful and trustworthy God.。
We know that your promise never fails,。
and we rest in the fact that nothing, nothing can ever。
stop you from accomplishing your word.。
So, Lord, increase our faith in you.。
Remind us of your goodness and your faithfulness in our life.。
Strengthen us in areas of our life。
where our faith is incomplete.。
Heal us of our deepest fear and doubt。
so that we can come before you with greater trust.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And in Jesus' name, we pray, amen.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Amen.。
OK, thank you all for joining us this morning.。
And as Kelly has mentioned, Pastor Mark。
is preaching at Wheaton today, so he won't be with us.。
But I would still encourage you to stay, hang out a little bit,。
and connect with one another.。
So go in peace.。
You're loved.。
you。
