Good morning family. Today, after a few months in Matthew chapter five,。
we are finishing out this chapter. Now it's not the end of the sermon on the。
mount. There's two more chapters of this sermon to go.。
And so we're going to continue on with looking at the kingdom values that are。
found in this sermon. But we're closing out this chapter today.。
And Jesus closes out this chapter with this amazing statement that he makes.。
So we're going to look at in Matthew chapter five, verse 48.。
It says this,。
you therefore must be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect.。
Okay, so wait just a minute here. I want to make sure we read this right.。
It sounds like this verse is saying that we're supposed to be perfect.。
Like God is perfect. We're supposed to imitate God in holiness.。
We can look at it again and that's pretty much exactly what it says.。
You therefore must be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect.。
Now what is going on here? This is an impossible command.。
This is an impossible ask. This is an impossible request.。
So what is Jesus saying in this verse?。
I want us to dig into this passage today and examine what Jesus is saying to us。
when he calls us to be perfect in the way that God is perfect.。
First of all,。
this word for perfect in Greek is a word that means complete and lacking nothing。
or in need of nothing and it could also mean mature,。
but it also does mean perfect. So when we read it, we could say, well,。
maybe God's just calling us to be mature.。
Maybe God's just calling us to be complete,。
totally equipped to serve him and follow him. Yeah, that's a part of it.。
That's there, but we can't escape the straightforward reading of this verse.。
It says we're supposed to be lighting holy lives and that is a really,。
really challenging statement for us.。
And as we look at the passage that surrounds it,。
we see that it gets even more challenging.。
Remember when we read verse 20 it says, for I tell you,。
unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees,。
you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.。
That was the beginning of this section where Jesus talks about the old Testament。
law and our relationship to it. And in all these ways,。
when Jesus talks about our anger, when Jesus talks about our lust,。
when he talks about how we break our promises,。
when he talks about how we retaliate and take revenge on one another and all of。
these things that Jesus has listed for us in this section,。
he's demonstrated how we fall so short,。
how our righteousness is so short of God's standard.。
It certainly doesn't exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees.。
And those two statements,。
verse 20 and verse 48 that we read this morning kind of bracket this section.。
Jesus starts the section by saying, listen,。
if you think you want to be good enough to please God,。
then your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and。
Pharisees. As we talked about before,。
he's basically saying your righteousness has to exceed an external conformance.。
It has to be more than something superficial.。
It has to be more than something that is just outward and just for other people。
to see. It has to be something real.。
And then he closes out this section with verse 48,。
the last verse of chapter five where he says,。
you therefore must be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect.。
So Jesus is setting the bar impossibly high for us.。
He's setting the standard impossibly high for us,。
but he's doing that to help us see how much we need God's work in our life and。
to help us see that this is impossible without God's work in our heart and in。
our lives. Notice in this verse,。
Jesus doesn't call us to just be a little bit better than other people.。
Look at verse 47 and verse 46. He says,。
for if you love those who love you, what reward do you have?。
Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers,。
what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same.。
Jesus isn't saying, Hey guys,。
if you can just do a little better than the tax collectors,。
if you can just do a little better than the Gentiles,。
if you can just do a little better than the people who don't know God and the。
people who don't love God, if you could just do a little better than them,。
then you're doing great. No, he says,。
I want you to be perfect in the way that God is perfect.。
That's the standard. Jesus also doesn't say, Hey,。
I just want you to be a little bit better than you were last week.。
I want you to just improve a little bit and just become a little bit better than。
you were. If you can do a little bit better job than you were last week,。
then that's what I want from you as a, as a subject of the kingdom,。
as a disciple, as a, as a follower of Jesus,。
just be a little bit better than you were.。
But Jesus doesn't give us that either. Jesus says, no,。
I want you to be like God. I want you to be like me.。
I want you to live out the values of the kingdom and I want you to live them out。
in every area of your life. That's what Jesus calls us to.。
Now that's something that we cannot do. It's impossible.。
And the fact that it's impossible and the fact that Jesus calls us to it,。
even though it is impossible points to what Jesus wants for our lives.。
See, Jesus doesn't just want to improve us.。
He wants to live through us.。
And that's a central truth of Christianity.。
That's a central value of the kingdom.。
It's a central reality of following Jesus is that Jesus doesn't just want to。
improve us. He wants to live through us.。
A lot of times we get this wrong idea about our faith,。
about being a Christian and about the Bible.。
And we think that the Bible is kind of like a self help manual and it's a self。
improvement book and it's there to help us be a little bit better version of。
ourselves. It's there to turn us into me 2.0.。
That's a little bit better than I was last week or last year, whatever.。
Well, there's a little bit of truth in that. Yes,。
God is working in our life over time. Yes, it's a gradual process. Yes,。
we grow in small steps. And so it's a week at a time. It's a day at a time.。
It's a year at a time. Yes, that's true.。
But the reality is Jesus teaches us clearly in the scripture.。
He doesn't want us to be me 2.0.。
He doesn't want us to be a slightly improved version of ourselves.。
That's not what he's trying to grow us towards.。
He is trying to grow us towards his life in us.。
He wants us to go away.。
He wants us to disappear and he wants to live his life through us.。
In Matthew chapter 16 verses 24 and 25 it says this,。
then Jesus told his disciples, if anyone would come after me,。
let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.。
For whoever would save his life will lose it.。
But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.。
And when we hear the word cross, we think of Jesus's death on the cross.。
And we think of something beautiful. We think of our redemption.。
But when Jesus said this to the disciples, the cross had not yet happened.。
So they didn't think of redemption. When they heard the word cross,。
they thought of what it meant to them.。
And to them it was an instrument of torture and death.。
They had seen people crucified by the Romans. They knew what the cross meant.。
And so when Jesus said, take up your cross to them,。
they understood that he was saying, listen,。
I want for your life to disappear.。
I want for those natural things, those sinful things,。
all those old pieces of you to die and to be gone so that I can live through you.。
That's what Jesus is calling us to. He doesn't just want to improve us.。
He wants to live through us. He wants all that old sinful stuff,。
everything from verse 20 down to verse 48 that Jesus called out in our lives,。
the anger, the hatred, the lying, the broken promises,。
the lust, the retribution and revenge, and the way we treat other people.。
All of that. Jesus is calling all that stuff out and he says, Hey,。
I want that stuff to be gone. I want that stuff to die.。
I want it to encounter the cross,。
to encounter the instrument of death so that I can begin to live through you in。
the place of all your selfishness and all your sin and all your brokenness and。
all the ugly stuff,。
all the ways that you hurt one another and all the ways that you reject God.。
I want those things to be gone so that I can live through you.。
And that's what Jesus is pointing us to in this passage.。
He's helping us to see that our righteousness has to exceed this righteousness。
of the scribes and Pharisees and that he wants us to live and in a way that is。
imitating God, that is imitating Christ.。
It's not enough just to try to do a little bit better.。
It's not enough just to try to be better than someone else.。
Jesus wants us to completely disappear and he wants to live through us.。
God wants to see less and less of me every day and more and more of Jesus every。
day. And in your life, God wants to see less and less of you every day.。
Less and less of your pride. Less and less of your selfishness,。
less and less of your anger, less and less of your lust.。
And he wants to see more and more of Jesus in your life every day.。
More of Jesus's love, more of Jesus's care for others,。
more of Jesus's selflessness in your life,。
more of Jesus's self sacrificing love.。
That's what God wants in my life and in your life.。
Now, how does that happen?。
If we say, okay, that's what Jesus is telling us in this passage.。
How does that happen? When we see this standard,。
when Jesus sets the standard impossibly high,。
there's a few ways that we can react to it.。
One is to go to a place of despair and say,。
I can't meet that standard. I'm a bad person.。
I'm a failure and I'm just going to live in despair.。
That's not what God has for us.。
Jesus doesn't put the standard out there to make us feel bad and to discourage。
us and to put us in a place of despair.。
The other thing that we often do,。
and this is what Jesus actually talks about in Matthew chapter six,。
this is the last verse of chapter five.。
But when we start talking about chapter six, next week, we'll see this.。
Jesus begins chapter six by talking about hypocrisy.。
And that's the other response. When we see how high the standard is,。
sometimes we respond by saying, well,。
I'm going to go ahead and pretend that I meet the standard, even though I don't,。
I'm going to try to just do my best and act like I do and tell other people that。
I do. And when we do that, we become a hypocrite.。
We start acting like we're something we're not.。
We start acting like we're, we're perfect and we never could be perfect.。
That's hypocrisy.。
But the way Jesus wants us to respond to this is through surrender to him,。
through saying, God, I can't live this out.。
I can't exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. God,。
there's certainly no way I can be perfect as my heavenly father is perfect.。
I cannot do this. And so I'm going to let myself disappear.。
I'm going to take all those old, selfish,。
sinful parts of me to the cross and let them die there and surrender to Jesus so。
that he can live through me.。
And surrender is a choice.。
I said that last week that nothing changes until you make a choice and we have。
to choose to surrender. We have to choose to say, God,。
I'm going to stop trying. I'm going to stop saying,。
maybe if I just try a little bit harder,。
maybe if I just figure out a few more things about the Bible,。
maybe if I just wrap my head around it or maybe if I just try to be a better。
person or maybe if I just work harder at hiding my sin from other people.。
No.。
When we stop all of that stuff and say, I'm going to surrender to you.。
God, I can't do this.。
I'm asking you to come and to live through me and to do this in my life.。
I really can't think of a better way to express what this surrender looks like。
than the words of Jesus in another sermon that he gave.。
And this is in the book of John in chapter 15.。
Jesus is talking about abiding in him,。
surrendering to him, giving up so that he lives through us.。
And he's talking about the peace and the rest and the joy that we find in that.。
So I'm going to read this. This is John chapter 15 verses one to 11.。
Jesus says, I am the true vine and my father is the vine dresser.。
Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away.。
And every branch that does bear fruit, he prunes that it may bear more fruits.。
Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken.。
You abide in me and I in you as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it。
abides in the vine. Neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine.。
You are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him,。
he it is that bears much fruit for apart from me, you can do nothing.。
If anyone does not abide in me,。
he is thrown away like a branch and withers and the branches are gathered,。
thrown into the fire and burned. If you abide in me and my words abide in you,。
ask whatever you wish and it will be done for you. By this,。
my father is glorified that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples.。
As the father has loved me, so have I loved you abide in my love.。
If you keep my commandments,。
you will abide in my love just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide。
in his love. These things I have spoken to you that my joy may be in you and that。
your joy may be full.。
What a beautiful description of what it looks like to surrender to Jesus.。
And Jesus is clear here in verses three and four. He's talking to his followers.。
He's talking to his disciples. He's talking to the people of God,。
the subjects of the kingdom, those who already have relationship with him.。
He's talking to you and me. We see that in verse three. He says,。
already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you.。
He's talking to those of us who already know Jesus. We've already been cleansed.。
We've had our sins forgiven. And then in verse four, he says,。
abide in me and I in you as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it。
abides in the vine. Neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine.。
You are the branches. Jesus is saying he's the main stock.。
He's the roots and the stock of the tree. And we're just the branches.。
We can't do it on our own. He says that in the passage, apart from him,。
we can do nothing. But if we will surrender to him,。
and let him live through us,。
then beautiful things will start to happen in our lives.。
Beautiful fruit will start to come. And that's what Jesus is calling us to.。
He says that if we're abiding in him, then we will keep his commandments.。
We will do what he has for us. So maybe you say, okay, what does that look like?。
If I believe that I can't be perfect, that's my heavenly father is perfect,。
that I have to surrender to Jesus in order to do that,。
that I have to start to disappear, that he has to start to live through me.。
But what does that look like? How do I even do that? Well,。
the first step is to pray, to talk to God and say, God,。
I want to turn it over to you. I want to surrender to you.。
I know I can't do it. I need you in my life. Please take control.。
Please begin to live through me. Please begin to bring about fruit in my life.。
That's the first step is just to, to ask and to,。
to confess your surrender to God.。
But then what does it look like in the day to day of our lives? Well,。
it begins to look like surrendering to these values of the kingdom that we've。
been talking about over the last few months. Instead of saying,。
I'm going to live out my life according to my own values.。
I'm going to live out my life in the ways that I think are best.。
I'm going to surrender to the values of God's word,。
to the values that Jesus has taught me, to the values of the kingdom.。
And I'm going to seek to live those out.。
A great starting point is the ones that we've covered in the beatitudes.。
Let's think about those for a second.。
Blessed are the poor in spirit for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
Surrendering to that saying, God,。
I'm not going to live from a place of pride or from a place of seeking my own。
righteousness. I'm, I want to be poor in spirit.。
I want to understand how much I need you. I want to live from that place.。
Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the earth. Surrendering to saying,。
God, I don't want to live from a place of thinking I'm better than someone else.。
I want my own understanding of my poverty of spirit to cause me to treat。
everyone else with love and respect because the rate made in your image.。
And I know I'm just as broken as anyone else.。
And I'm going to surrender to living out that value instead of trying to live。
from a place of pride and trying to assert myself and trying to give myself。
advantage over others. I'm going to be meek.。
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness for they shall be。
satisfied. Saying, God, I'm, I'm going to surrender to that value. I'm,。
I'm going to stop hungering and thirsting after all the stuff of the world,。
all the stuff that I, that I crave because of my sin,。
all of the money or the power or the popularity or the lust or whatever those。
things are. God,。
I want to stop living for those things and I want to hunger and thirst after。
righteousness. I want to surrender to that.。
Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy. God,。
I want to live in a way that I see the brokenness of others and that it breaks。
my heart. God, I want to surrender to that value.。
Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. God,。
I want to surrender to having a single minded desire towards knowing you and。
stop being distracted by everything else in the world and stop being。
contaminated by all these other desires and all these other things I want.。
But God, I want to surrender to only desiring you.。
That's hard because our heart wants, our flesh wants everything else.。
We want this and that we want to achieve. We want to be comfortable.。
We want to have things. We want to be wealthy.。
We want all these different things. But can we surrender to saying, God,。
I want the purity of my heart to be found and only desiring you.。
Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the sons of God.。
Can we surrender to that and say, God,。
I want to live a life that brings Shalom into the lives of others and the verses。
10 to 12 that talk about being persecuted for righteousness sake. God,。
I want to surrender to that.。
I want to surrender to the fact that if I'm following you,。
there's going to be people who are uncomfortable with that,。
that it might bring about some persecution and I'm going to live it out anyway.。
And I'm, I don't want to give up when things are difficult and following you.。
That's a great starting point in surrendering to the values of the kingdom.。
Start with the beatitudes.。
And then as you continue to know God's word and study the scripture,。
you'll see more and more values of the kingdom that God wants you to surrender。
to as you continue to follow Jesus and learn more about him and deepen your。
relationship with him.。
God will open up more and more of his truth and you'll see more and more things。
that you can surrender to more and more things about you and your,。
your selfishness and the old part of you that can pass away, that can die,。
that can disappear.。
And more and more of Jesus that can come in and live through you.。
And that's what Jesus is saying in this verse when he says,。
be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect.。
He's not saying that we're going to try hard enough to do this.。
He's saying there's no way you can do it. You've got to surrender.。
You've got to abide. You've got to let Jesus do it through you.。
You've got to let him live his life through your life.。
He doesn't want to improve us and make us a little bit better.。
He wants to radically transform us so that he is living in our place.。
He is living through us. So let's live into this.。
Let's be honest that we're not going to be good enough on our own,。
that we're not going to try hard enough to be all that God wants us to be or。
even to be all that we want to be ourselves.。
But we have got to have God's help. We've got to have God's work in our life.。
We've got to have the empowerment of the Holy Spirit in our life.。
And the reality is that that's what God wants all along.。
God never wanted us to do it. God never expected us to do it.。
God wants us to disappear, to fade away.。
He wants our selfishness, our pride,。
all the things about us that have driven our decisions and charted our course。
before we knew Jesus.。
God wants those things to fade away and he wants Jesus to begin living through。
us.。
God wants us to surrender to Jesus and let him live his life through us.。
God wants us to surrender to the values of the kingdom and say, God,。
I want to live out the values of the kingdom instead of just trying to live out。
the things that are important to me, the things that I value,。
the things that the culture around me values.。
I want to live out your values in my life. I want to prioritize those things.。
God wants us to surrender to relationship with him and say, God,。
I'm going to prioritize knowing you over everything else in my life.。
God wants us to surrender to abiding and saying, God,。
I can't do this on my own apart from you.。
I really can't do anything.。
So I'm going to rest and I'm going to let you live through me so that I can be。
who you want me to be.。
That's what God calls us to and that's what Jesus is pointing us to in this。
chapter.。
And we have to cry out to God and ask God to help us to do it.。
And we have to ask God to give us the courage and the strength to surrender and。
the courage and the strength to step out of the way and let Jesus live through。
us. So let's do that. We'll do it right now,。
but let's continue to do that over this week.。
Let's continue to ask God to be at work in our life,。
to ask God to give us the strength and courage to surrender over and over to。
continue to surrender,。
to make that journey of surrendering to Christ and being closer to。
him and becoming more and more like Jesus and more and more of who God wants us。
to be. Let's pray. God, we do just profess our need for you. God,。
we know that we cannot be who you want us to be or even who we want to be。
on our own without your help. And so God, we just cry out for your help.。
We ask you to give us the strength to surrender to you and God,。
I pray that we would do it.。
I pray that we would surrender to the values of your kingdom and that we would。
live out what's important to you,。
that we have prioritized the things that you prioritize. And God,。
I pray that we would surrender to orienting our lives around you and really。
focusing everything on you and focusing everything on our relationship to you,。
God. And as we do that, God, we ask for you to live through us.。
May your love shine through us. May your peace shine through us.。
May your unselfishness and your selflessness shine through us.。
May your humility shine through us. God,。
may you live through us so that we ourselves, but more importantly,。
the people around us see less and less of us and more and more of Jesus in our。
lives. God, our world needs that so bad.。
Our world so badly needs to see more and more of Jesus.。
May we be your people and may we be the people who,。
who live that out, who show more and more of Jesus to our friends,。
our families, our community, our city, and to the world around us. God,。
In Jesus' name, Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
