Hello, my name is Joyce. I am one of the ministers at UV. I live in Arizona and I mostly serve。
the church online. And I fly back to Chicago once a quarter to serve in person. In 2008,。
the U.S. economy started to decline. That summer, our family went to China to do a short-term。
mission with our home church. We returned to Chicago in August, and next month, September,。
my husband was laid off. Since then, he was out of work for the next 11 months. The year。
after, 2009, we went to China for another short-term mission trip. While we visit families。
and friends in Hong Kong, my husband got a job offer. So after he brought us back to。
Chicago, he flew back to Hong Kong for the new job. He only had 100 Hong Kong dollars。
in his pocket for that month until he got his first paycheck. My daughter and I stayed。
behind in Chicago for another three months because of her school. We have about a month。
of mortgage and living expenses in the bank. We live in Hong Kong for two years, and we've。
moved to Arizona in 2012. In September 2014, we got a job offer from a bank in Hong Kong。
and we came back to Chicago for a friend's wedding. A day before the wedding, our whole。
family went for a physical checkup because we were in the middle of changing insurance.。
A day after the wedding, my husband was admitted to the hospital. Because the blood test showed。
his blood count was dangerously low, his hemoglobin level is about one-third of a normal person.。
They did some tests on him, and the tests showed that he had five ulcers in his stomach.。
He was bleeding nonstop. We stayed in the hospital for a blood transfusion, and after。
he was discharged, we went back to Arizona, and he needed another blood transfusion. Unfortunately,。
there was a month between the two insurances that we didn't have insurance, and it was。
that month. So the medical bills pretty much emptied our bank account. And with all the。
chaos, I barely survived my second semester of seminary study. I can go on and on with。
similar stories like this, but I think you get the idea. There were times in my life。
that was very, very difficult. But standing in front of you today, when I look back, I。
have nothing but thankfulness. I thank you, God, for His grace. I thank God for the many。
trials in my life. I am blessed because I'm a Christian. How so? How could that be? I。
thank you, God, for the many trials in my life. How so? How could that be? Today's message,。
hang tight. Hang tight means to continue doing something or staying somewhere, although it。
is difficult or unpleasant to do so. Let's pray. Lord God Almighty, blessed be the name。
of the Lord. We come before you and ask for a teachable heart. May the Holy Spirit speak。
to each one of us as you pleased. Your name be glorified. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
Today's passage, John 3, 16. Shall we read it together? "For God so loved the world that。
He gave His one and only Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not perish but have。
eternal life." Many of you, or probably all of you, are very familiar with this verse.。
But maybe it is not a bad idea to take another look, or you just have no choice since I'm。
the speaker. I'm the one who chose the verse. As you see, this is not a long verse. However,。
it is so rich in meaning and significance. So let us unpack this verse together. In this。
verse, there are seven important truths, truths that you and I need. The first truth is that。
we need, number one, God, the ultimate authority. Two, love the world, the greatest action.。
Three, that He gave His one and only, one and only Son, the best gift. Four, whoever。
believes in Him, the widest coverage. Five, believes in Him, the only way out. Six, shall。
not perish, the holiest salvation. Seven, eternal life, the priceless gift. God, the。
ultimate authority. From the very beginning, chapter 1 in Genesis, there are 11 God says.。
The authority of God is clearly reflected in the command spoken from His mouth. It is。
also recorded in the Old Testament that God called Abraham with authority. In Exodus,。
God also played an authoritative role in the exile and return of the Israelites. When it。
comes to the New Testament, we also see that God had given authority to Jesus. "All authority。
in heaven and earth has been given to me." And later, authority was passed on to the。
disciples. More importantly, Paul mentioned in his letter that the authority from the。
Holy Spirit is fulfilled the mission in the church of God. God is the ultimate authority.。
He has the authority over the earth, over the authority of your life, over the challenges。
in your life. Two, love the world, the greatest action. God loves the world. The word love。
consists of thoughts, wills, and emotions. But we must understand God's love for the。
world is not limited to thoughts, wills, and emotions. God's love is also an action. Christ。
died for us. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent His。
only Son to this world so that we might live through Him. For reason why loving the world。
is the greatest act? Because this is a sacrificial love. On the cross, the Father makes the sinless。
Son the object of the Father's wrath for our sake that in Jesus we might become the righteousness。
of God. Someone took the action to pay for your wrong. Someone took action to bear the。
pain. Someone loves you more than He loves Himself. Three, one and only Son. The Father。
one and only Son, the best gift. Eternal life belongs to God. The Son of God also has。
eternal life. Eternal life is supernatural. So unless God gives it to man, there's no。
way for man to have it by himself. John 10, 28, "I give them eternal life and they will。
never perish and no one will snatch them out of my hand." The only begotten Son is the。
best, ultimate, and most priceless gift. Life, you will never receive another gift in your。
life that can compare to it. There were times in my life that were so difficult that I can。
barely breathe. There seems to be no way out and I don't even have money to pay the mortgage。
next month. I used to joke with my brother's sisters in the church like, "If I don't have。
money to buy grocery, I'll come to your home for dinner." But the gift of, the thought。
of, the knowing of Jesus carried me through. You may be a professional. You may feel like。
you have control over your life. You might feel confident or you may have tons of money,。
but in the end, you cannot save yourself. Four, whoever the widest coverage. You must。
know that the Jews did not think that God loved the world because they believed that。
God only loved Israel. But it was Jesus' word that showed God's love is so long, wide, and。
deep that it covers everyone in the world. All people in the world can be saved and all。
people can have the life in the Lord. Jesus' teaching challenged the Israelites to humble。
their hearts and their status as God's chosen people and deprive them of the privilege of。
thinking they had God's blessings. Jesus transformed people's understanding of God's love and。
salvation. We are covered. You and I are within the coverage.。
Five, believe in Him, the only way out. Believe in Him, describe people who are willing to。
accept God's love. God loves the world, but if people don't accept the Lord Jesus and。
the gift from God, they can't have eternal life at all. Believing in Jesus is not just。
about cognition in the head, but believing in Jesus is about believing in the head and。
relying on the heart and following in the action.。
John 5, 24, "Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes Him who sent me。
has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life."。
To believe is to connect, to hang tight our lives in Jesus, to transfer our sovereignty,。
to change our values, and to allow God to renew our hearts and guide our lives from。
now on. You must believe in Him because He is the only way out.。
There is a verse that I love since I was in high school. Proverbs 3, 5-6, "Trust in the。
Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge。
Him and He will make straight your path."。
Trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean onto your own understanding. In。
all your ways acknowledge Him and He will make straight your path.。
Sixth, "Shall not perish the holy salvation." The word perish, destroyed in the Bible means。
to be destroyed, to be regarded as useless, to be killed, to go to hell, to be lost, to。
be declared, sorry, to be put to death.。
Charles Spurgeon, one of the most influential English preachers in the 19th century. He。
once said, "Morality may keep you out of jail, but it takes the blood of Jesus Christ to。
keep you out of hell."。
Elaine Pagels, she is a professor of religion at Princeton University, the world's leading。
biblical literature research expert. In 1987, her son Mark died of terminal illness at the。
age of six, followed 15 months later. Her husband died in a climbing accident.。
In 2018, she released a book called "Why Religion?" This book was written after the death of her。
son and her husband. Elaine tried to explore the teachings in the Bible from the religious。
studies she was familiar with, which could help her face the death of her son and her。
husband and overcome the struggles of extreme pain.。
Although Elaine studied the Bible all her life, she was not a Christian, and even denied。
Christianity and religion all her life. Ironically, at the end she had no choice but to admit。
that the grace from God brought her out of the shadows. Although Elaine Pagels experienced。
grace from God and the death of her son and her husband, in the end she still chose to。
define God as the object of her study, not her savior. Her knowledge of the Bible is。
so extremely rich, and she has received many, many awards and respect in the academic world,。
but none of these can save her.。
How about you? Do you truly believe He is the God of your life, or is it just a brainful。
of Bible knowledge? "Shall not perish," the holy salvation, is the ultimate goal of God's。
love for the world. Anyone can know God, but unless they confess their sins and believe。
in their hearts, they cannot escape eternal destruction.。
Eternal Life is the Priceless Gift。
John 11, 25-26 Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes。
in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall。
never die." Do you believe this?。
Eternal Life, the Priceless Gift. Have you received it? You claim it. Open it. The understanding。
of Eternal Life helps us live our lives beyond the here and now. It empowers us to live life。
with a wider kingdom's perspective. We can claim victory over comes the world.。
How can we still sleep like a baby when you lose your job, when there's no money in your。
bank account, or the number in your bank account continues to drop? How can we finish the race。
when everything seems to go against you? And how can we testify his name in our lives when。
there is suffering, when there is continuous challenge, struggle?。
God, the ultimate authority, loves the world, the greatest action, one and only Son, the。
best gift, whoever the widest coverage, believes in him the only way out, shall not perish。
the holiest salvation. Eternal Life, the Priceless Gift.。
Seven Truths. Seven truths of the gospel we Christians need to hang tight because eternal。
hope is a big deal.。
In Pastor Mark's video, he mentioned Matthew chapter 6, 31 to 33. What is kingdom living。
like? What should disciples, followers of Jesus think of every single day?。
Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Understanding who we are is the foundation of this worthy。
walk. Let's not live like we don't know God. Act or live like a Gentile.。
Anyone with kingdom perspective can conquer the storm in life. Trials shall pass. Christ's。
followers can rest peacefully in the storm because he saves, because God is with us.。
Hang tight. Trust in the Lord. Pray without ceasing. Don't let go. Let's pray.。
Redeeming God, thank you for salvation, full and free. You are rich in mercy and grace.。
You have promise and eternity spent with you by faith in Jesus Christ. Nothing can separate。
us from you. Please grant us kingdom perspective when trials come. We don't worry about tomorrow,。
what we eat, what we wear, because there is something more important. May your name be。
glorified in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
