[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
All right, good morning, guys.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
Very good to see you all.。
And as you know, I came back from Turkey last--。
Saturday.。
Saturday.。
Yeah, last Saturday.。
So I'm trying to reorient myself back to the Chicago time.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So next time, if you have the opportunity,。
you should come to the Bible Lens with me.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
OK, so last week, I shared with you。
my recent trip, some of the highlights from my Turkey trip.。
And it's about the first missionary journey of Paul,。
recorded in the Book of Acts.。
And we visit different biblical sites。
that will help us understand the context of scripture.。
So today, I want to bring you another highlight, which。
is a place called Leuticia.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
And this place is called Leuticia.。
And you can find the text from the Book of Revelation,。
the last book of the Bible, chapter 3, 14 to 22.。
And as you can see from this Google Maps screen cap,。
Leuticia, in terms of background,。
was a very, very wealthy city.。
Now, as you hear about the context of Leuticia,。
you can think of it's kind of like Chicago, OK?。
So it was a traffic hub.。
It was the center of all the traffic east and west。
and north and south.。
And the banking center, right?。
Sound like our city, right?。
And it was also, in the ancient time,。
a center of textile production.。
So they produced a lot of clothing。
and a lot of good wool or sheepskin.。
And it's also, interestingly, a place well-known。
for its medical treatment.。
So if you go to the hospital, especially for your eyes,。
eye medicine, it was a very well-known thing in Leuticia.。
So outwardly, this city, Leuticia, and its culture。
look very, very strong and very successful。
and very self-sufficient.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
But as you turn to the text today, Revelation 3,。
you see when Jesus spoke to the church in Leuticia,。
he saw something very different from how they see themselves.。
And what looked healthy, what looked successful to them,。
is actually very sick on the inside.。
And when they looked rich, but they are actually。
poor in the eyes of Jesus.。
When they looked strong, they were actually pretty weak。
in the sight of God.。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So even though it looks very, very successful,。
very self-sufficient, you look at the letter,。
and it says--。
and we can read from chapter 3, 14 and following--。
"To the angel of the church in Leuticia write,。
these are the words of the Amen--"。
and Jesus called himself Amen because it means truthful--。
"the faithful and true witness and the ruler。
of God's creation.。
15, I know your deeds, and that you are neither cold nor hot.。
I wish you were either one or the other.。
So because you are lukewarm, neither hot nor cold,。
I am about to spit you out of my mouth."。
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
So Jesus says to the church, you are neither cold nor hot.。
Sometimes we approach this statement,。
and we think that, OK, these are, of course,。
very serious words.。
And we only think that hot, meaning spiritually passionate.。
And then cold, meaning, of course, to us, cold water。
or cold hearted.。
It may mean, OK, they are spiritually detached。
or distant, but the local geography of Leuticia,。
of this city, will help us understand this passage。
or those words better.。
Because when you turn to the map,。
you see Leuticia is right in the middle, right?。
And then north of it is someplace。
called [INAUDIBLE] today, or Hierapolis.。
That is in the north, right?。
And that is the place known for hot spring or hot water spring,。
still having mineral water, hot water coming out。
of this place, which is north of Leuticia.。
And to the right is Colossae.。
And Colossae was known for its cold mountain, cold spring。
water.。
And both hot water and cold water were very useful.。
You see that?。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So when I went there, this is Hierapolis, right?。
So I was actually there, even though it feels like--。
or it looks like there was a green screen.。
And I keyed myself in there.。
But it was a very, very beautiful place.。
And it's all white.。
And [SPEAKING CHINESE] actually means cotton castle.。
And it gets the name because from afar,。
you look at Pamukkale, it looks white at the mountaintop.。
And it has hot spring really coming out today.。
And you can go there and enjoy it on barefoot.。
And that is Pamukkale or Hierapolis.。
And Leoticia is a little bit different.。
Leoticia, right in the middle, it。
drew water from springs to the south.。
But by the time the warm water or hot water。
reached the city through the water pipe,。
the water became mineral-laden.。
And because you got some white stuff in your water.。
And it doesn't taste very good.。
And that is the image of lukewarm water。
for Leoticia.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So the water in Leoticia is kind of like what we call hot water.。
I know Chicago is known for hot water.。
Because some people complain to me they do a shower。
and they wash their hairs, they lose hairs.。
Because hot water.。
Because you got minerals in your--。
there is stuff in the water.。
And it's not refreshing.。
And it's not refreshing like cold water, Colossi.。
It's not refreshing or therapeutic。
like the hot water in Hierapolis.。
And the water in Leoticia was simply distasteful and useless.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
I find some water pipe in the ancient time.。
And it was deposited with some sort of what we call calcium。
carbonate, some of the deposit from the mineral from the water.。
And as you can tell, the quality of water in Leoticia。
is very, very poor.。
So Jesus is not speaking about when he says cold or hot.。
He's not talking about our spiritual temperature for God.。
And he's speaking about usefulness for God.。
So hot water or hot spring water is useful.。
Because you can dump yourself in there。
and you can enjoy the hot spring, right?。
And the cold water, of course, is useful.。
You can drink it.。
But the lukewarm water in Leoticia。
was useless, totally useless.。
Because you cannot use it.。
And in the same way, Jesus is referring。
to the Christians in Leoticia that they。
have become useless for God's purpose.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So this message will help us to understand the words。
in the letter to Leoticia.。
And the message is for us today as well.。
Because we can be successful in the sight of the world。
by human standards.。
Yet we can be spiritually ineffective or useless to God.。
And the Christian can be respectable,。
can be successful.。
But in the sight of God, it's not truly useful.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So the question is, how can we become。
useful for God's purpose?。
And we look at at least three points from this passage.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
First, we need to understand this short letter.。
Jesus Christ is desiring for something from us, from you.。
It's a fruitful relationship with you.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And Jesus does not look at our money.。
Jesus does not look at our success.。
Now, we check our portfolio every day, right?。
We check our bank account, especially tax season.。
We check how much money we have and our ability.。
But Jesus looks at us as whether we are abiding in him,。
whether we are building a living and fruitful relationship。
with him.。
And being useful, being fruitful,。
begins with our fellowship with Jesus.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Now, the problem with the seer was not that they had money.。
The problem-- they had money, that's fine.。
The problem is that they no longer。
felt that they needed Christ when they are rich.。
Their wealth had made them so self-sufficient,。
and they don't need God.。
And they have comfort, and that would weaken their relationship。
or dependence on the Lord.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Now, you think about it.。
This can happen to all of us, right?。
This can happen to all of us.。
We may still come to church.。
We may still serve, or we look outside, from the outside.。
We look faithful.。
But inwardly, we may not be depending on Jesus deeply.。
And we may be active, but we are not。
abiding in him, having a living relationship with God.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
But if we want to be useful for the purpose of God,。
first and foremost, we must stay close to Christ.。
Stay close to Christ.。
We must walk with him, and listen to him,。
and depend on him, and love him.。
This is a fruitful life, and that。
will continue to grow out of your living relationship。
with God.。
And you become useful for God's purpose.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And then the second point here, Christ desires to dwell in your heart.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Verse 17, it says, "You say," speaking。
to the Christians in Laodicea, self-sufficient Christians,。
"You say, I am rich.。
I have acquired wealth and do not need a thing.。
But you do not realize that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind,。
and naked."。
So Jesus said to the church, "I counsel you to buy me gold。
we find in the fire."。
Now, you said you have gold, but you don't really have gold.。
You have to buy gold from me we find in the fire。
so you can become rich.。
And you get the white clothes to wear so that you。
can cover your shameful nakedness.。
And then you can put ointment on your eyes so that you can see.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So as you can see from the context,。
Jesus is using the very thing the city of the people。
were proud of to expose their true poor condition.。
And they were proud of their banking, proud of their gold。
and riches, but they were actually poor spiritually.。
And that they were proud of their textile, their clothing,。
their industry, but they were actually naked spiritually.。
They were proud of their eye medicine,。
but they were actually spiritually blind.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And this is a warning to all of us, right?。
It's possible for us to be outwardly successful.。
Outwardly, we get everything self-sufficient.。
But inwardly, we can be empty.。
And it is possible for us to gain many things in life,。
but we are still missing the most important thing.。
And what matters most is that the presence of Christ。
in our hearts.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
That's why Jesus said, I cancel you.。
You listen to me.。
You buy gold from me.。
You buy white cloths from me.。
And you put on your eyes ointment from me。
so that you can see.。
In other words, what truly is needed。
could only come from Jesus Christ our Lord.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And pay attention to this.。
Only, only Christ can make you truly rich.。
And only Christ can cover your shame, your sin.。
Only Christ can open our eyes.。
Only Christ can make us whole.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And the third point here, the letter says,。
Jesus is calling you to repentance。
and to renew fellowship with him.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE] Now, verses 19 and following,。
it says, those whom I love, I rebuild and discipline.。
So be earnest and repent.。
And these are very, very strong words.。
Actually, among the seven letters,。
this one, the last one to live this year,。
is the strongest letter.。
But you listen to the words.。
They are actually words of love.。
Because Jesus rebuilds his church。
not because he has given up on them.。
It's just because he still loves them.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And in verse 20, he continues.。
Jesus says, here I am.。
I'm standing at the door, and I'm knocking.。
And this is a moving picture.。
The church is trying to push Jesus to the outside,。
trying to etch him out.。
And yet Jesus was still standing there and still knocking。
and still calling them back.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And Jesus says, if anyone hears my voice and opens the door,。
I will come in, and I will eat with him, and he be with me.。
Now, in the ancient world, especially in the ancient eastern world,。
sharing a meal together or sharing a table。
was a picture of close relationship.。
And Jesus is offering something so intimate。
to restore our communion with him.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Now, this means if the leviticus is reminding you。
you are lukewarm today, remember it's not。
your spiritual temperature.。
If you're lukewarm today, it means in God's sight,。
we are not that useful, right?。
We're not that close to him.。
The answer to lukewarmness, all right,。
lukewarmness of our heart condition is not trying harder.。
It's not doing more things.。
The answer is opening the door again to Christ our Lord.。
And it is turning back to him.。
It's making room, opening the door to dwell with him。
so that Christ can dwell at the center of our lives again.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Now, some of us, some of us here may not。
have rejected Jesus openly, right?。
We're not anti-Jesus.。
But perhaps we have slowly drifted away from him.。
And we still know the language of faith,。
but we no longer live in a close fellowship with him.。
And yet, today, from this letter,。
Jesus is still knocking at your door.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So if you think about it, you know, Charlie, reflect.。
Jesus may have been still knocking on your door.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
He is calling us back, and not to shame us, but to restore us.。
He wants to renew our heart, come into our hearts,。
renew our vision, and renew our usefulness for God's purpose.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So the message to the Christians and the seer。
is also a message to all of us.。
Do not be content, do not be content with our comfort。
while inwardly we're drifting away from Christ.。
Do not trust in our own strengths,。
and do not say, I don't need a thing from God.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Instead, today, we turn to Jesus and abide in him.。
Open your hearts to him, and let him search you,。
heal you, and restore you.。
And this is how we become useful for God's purpose.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Now, at the end of this letter is a series。
of words of comfort.。
Jesus gives us promise at the end.。
To him who overcomes, to him who is faithful,。
I will give the right to sit with me on my throne.。
You see, this is invitation of grace, invitation of hope.。
And what an invitation, right?。
We etch him out, but he's knocking on our door.。
And Christ not only wants us, he welcomes us.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
May God keep us from being lukewarm, being useless.。
May he make us, all of us, to be close to him。
and full of grace and repentance.。
And truly, we want to be useful.。
We want to be pleasant for God's purpose.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Now, at this point, we want to have some quiet moment.。
And I want to invite you to speak to the Lord who。
is knocking on your door.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Let's spend some time and pray together, and I will close.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for speaking to us。
through your Word today.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Forgive us for the times we have become self-sufficient,。
lukewarm, and detached from Christ.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So draw us back to you today into a living and fruitful。
relationship with you.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And dear God, we ask that you open our eyes。
to see our true condition.。
And we want to welcome Jesus more fully into our hearts.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And Jesus, do make us a people who are close to you。
and quick to repent and useful for your purpose.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And we pray all this in Jesus' name.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Amen.。
Well, may God bless you all, and I。
want to see you next week.。
And become useful to desire a better relationship with God。
and to worship him, OK?。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And I know Patrick has--。
