All right, we continue our series on worship.。
And I think we need to understand what worship is all about.。
And I need to, we need to come before the word of God。
because the word of God is our final standard.。
It's the highest standard for our belief and our practice.。
Ask questions as someone who is in Christ.。
I want to know what worship is all about.。
Is it just about attending an hour of program。
to go through the motions and to just sing some songs。
and spend an hour and then I'll just check out,。
and then I'll go home.。
Is it what worship is all about?。
So let me begin today with this main question.。
This question is how can we become better worshipers?。
Or I should say, how can we be worshipers。
who are pleasing to God?。
How can we do that?。
So let's take a moment and talk to your neighbor,。
if you can.。
How can we be better worshipers。
or worshipers that will please God?。
All right, think about it.。
What would be your answers?。
What would be your answers?。
Now, sometimes when we approach questions like this,。
or some of the Christian practice。
revealed to us in scripture,。
sometimes we approach questions like this,。
like we approach our boss.。
I'll talk to some of you,。
and some of you are working from home.。
And someone share a secret,。
because working from home,。
and you have to turn on Microsoft Team。
or Zoom or the online platform,。
and your boss has to know that you are present.。
And some of you have a smart way to fake your presence,。
you know, to get your, some sort of software.。
I don't know about this, but until someone told me.。
You can actually buy a software and install a software,。
and then mechanically remove the mouse from time to time,。
and just fake your presence in the online meeting.。
And that's a very, very wise way to do it.。
I would say this is beyond my wisdom.。
But, you know, is that all God cares about, right?。
I mean, do we treat God as our boss?。
You know, our boss simply, you know,。
want us to check in, right?。
Clock in and clock out.。
Want your time, right?。
And then we just fake our presence, right?。
Is that what God care about?。
What does God really care about, right?。
In this series, we say that in scripture,。
God is revealing to us who he is and what he does.。
From creation to new creation,。
what God really care about is that he will live among us.。
He will be our God and we will be his people.。
And that's what worship is all about.。
It's not about clock in and clock out.。
Okay, I just check this.。
Okay, I've done this for this week,。
and I'll get worship done, and I'll sing some songs to God,。
and that's it, and I'll go my way, right?。
Is that what God really care about?。
God cares about his presence with us,。
his relationship with us.。
Your boss will not care about his relationship with you,。
right?。
That's why, you know, it is legitimate to think about。
how to fake your presence, right?。
Because all your boss cares about is your productivity,。
right?。
Squeeze you in some way that use you, right?。
Use you for productivity, for profit.。
But God cares about his relationship with us.。
And that's what it means when we believe in Jesus Christ.。
It's not about do's and don'ts.。
It's about our relationship with Christ.。
I was talking to someone, his friend,。
is a very devoted Catholic.。
And he was sharing with me,。
oh no, his friend is not willing to come to church.。
Going to church is not just part of his friend's agenda.。
Because as a Catholic, a lot of Catholics are like this.。
And of course, a lot of Christians are like this.。
A lot of evangelical Christians are like that.。
No, a lot of Catholics are, you know,。
when they approach faith, when they approach God,。
it's a cultural thing, right?。
Because my father and my mother were devout Catholics,。
so that's why I am Catholic.。
And that's part of my cultural identity.。
And if you ask a devout Catholic,。
so often you get the answer is that,。
of course I am a Catholic, right?。
Now Catholic in the sense of cultural identity, right?。
It's not really a personal encounter。
or personal intimate relationship with God.。
And that's what many, many Catholics are lacking.。
And I'm not trying to mention,。
but many, many Christians are like this too.。
Many Bible-believing Christians are like that.。
The kind of a cultural identity,。
kind of, you know, attack on an app in your phone, right?。
And you never use it.。
You got some apps in your phone, right?。
On your phone, installed, but you never touch it.。
You never use it, right?。
In case you need it, and then you click on it, right?。
It's not just part of your system.。
It's not, right?。
Many of us approach worship, approach God in that sense.。
And we lost what really God care,。
what God really care about.。
He care about His relationship with us.。
So therefore in the entire Bible,。
from creation to new creation,。
from the first chapter to the last chapter,。
it's all about worship.。
In some sense, everything is about worship.。
Everything is about God living in you,。
and you live in God.。
Everything is about you and God relationship.。
So we talk about creation.。
The Bible is a grand story.。
And even though we rebel against God,。
that's Genesis chapter three,。
but God is not abandoning the fallen world。
to rebel against mankind.。
God chooses to redeem them and to live among them.。
And therefore He saved the Israelites out of Egypt。
by grace, and then live among them in the form of tabernacle,。
the tent of Portable Temple,。
and living with them and guiding their way。
through wilderness.。
And then once they settle down in the land of Canaan,。
the promised land, God is dwelling with them。
in a stone temple, right?。
And as times go by, we know that all of this。
Old Testament symbols are pointing forward。
to Christ Jesus, our Lord.。
And Christ came and Jesus came and died on the cross。
to redeem His people and rose from the dead。
and gave us hope.。
And in Christ now, we worship, not in the stone temple,。
not in the tabernacle, because everything points。
to the reality of Christ.。
So in Christ we worship.。
In Christ we encounter God,。
and we build our relationship with Him.。
Until someday in eternity, when new heaven and new earth。
came down in the midst of us, and God lives among us,。
and that is what we call heaven,。
or should we call new creation, new heaven and new earth.。
So the entire story of the Bible tells us。
it's all about His relationship with us,。
and that's what worship is all about.。
Now, as we come to the New Testament,。
we find that there were a lot of teachings about worship。
and what worship is all about.。
Acts chapter two describes the early church,。
the first generation Christians, what they do in worship.。
All the believers devote themselves to the teachings。
of the apostles and fellowship,。
sharing in meals and to prayer.。
A deep sense of awe came over them all,。
and the apostles performed many signs and wonders,。
and all the believers, all the disciples met together。
in one place and shared everything they had.。
All the while, they praised God。
and enjoyed the goodwill of the people.。
Now, from this short passage, we can see。
worship is a priority.。
It's a priority for the tiny Christian movement。
in the beginning.。
They gather together in homes,。
you know, house churches, what we call,。
and worship is always a priority, not an option.。
And then worship is about a corporate community。
getting together, fellowship,。
face-to-face, sharing with one another,。
and they practice generosity.。
They give, right?。
Voluntarily, they give their resources。
to build up the church, the community.。
And worship is also a puppet weakness to the world,。
enjoying the goodwill of all the people,。
all the neighbors, all the people, not just the believers.。
And because when they see them worshiping together,。
when they see them gathering together,。
there is a function, or there is a power。
of outreaching missional, being missional in worship.。
You know, when people come into our gathering,。
they hear us praising God, they hear us worshiping God.。
What should happen is that they will sense。
that this is a different community,。
a different community that I cannot find。
in the rest of the world.。
Someone pointed to me sometimes。
on some worship songs on YouTube,。
and there were people who comment,。
you know, comment below a certain video。
or a certain worship song.。
And some of the comments are really interesting.。
And some of the comments, let me read that.。
Some of the comments reads,。
"I am not a Christian, but I am touched by the music.。
"I don't know this song,。
"but I'm touched by the message of the song."。
Now that's what worship should do, ultimately.。
It is going out, right, reaching out to other people。
so that people can understand our music。
and understand what we are doing,。
and they sense there's something different,。
you know, in the midst of Christian worship.。
So today I would like to turn to one of the passages。
in the New Testament that talks about worship.。
And that is 1 Corinthians chapter 14.。
As you know, the entire letter of Corinthians。
is a corrective letter.。
It means that the pastor, the apostle Paul,。
he writes the letter to correct some of the misbehavior。
and misbelief amongst the house churches,。
tiny house churches in Corinth.。
And there were many, many problems in the churches,。
or the house churches in Corinth.。
Division, they have a lawsuit against one another,。
they have sexual immorality,。
idle food controversies, and all that.。
So the entire letter is trying to correct one problem。
after the other.。
In 1 Corinthians 14, actually from 12 to 14,。
Paul is addressing problems in the worship,。
in the corporate gathering.。
And in chapter 14, there were two parts.。
First of all, Paul is talking about the difference。
between prophecy and tongues, speaking in tongues.。
And the second part of this chapter,。
he talks about your worship is a witness to other people.。
So let's break this down and try to understand。
what is going on here.。
Chapter 14, verse one.。
Paul said, "Let love be your highest priority, highest goal,。
"but you should also desire the special gift。
"or special abilities," by the way,。
this is New Living Translation,。
which is easier to understand.。
"Special abilities that the Spirit gives,。
"especially the ability or the spiritual gift to prophesy.。
"For one who speaks in a tongue。
"speaks not to men, but to God.。
"For no one understands him,。
"but he utters mysteries in the Spirit."。
Now what is he talking about?。
Now, first of all, what is tongue?。
What is speaking in tongue?。
What is speaking in tongue?。
I'm not sure you have heard, maybe you have,。
you have heard someone speaking in tongue, right?。
Yeah, when I was in seminary, my first seminary。
was Westminster Theological Seminary in California.。
And I lived with three other roommates, they are Koreans.。
And one of those guys, in the same age,。
when I was really young, right, 20 something.。
And then we lived together, four of us.。
And one of my roommate, Korean roommates,。
he speaks in tongue, every morning.。
He opened the Bible in his room,。
he does his devotional, and he will pray.。
And he will pray in some sort of unknown language, right?。
Of course, I don't know Korean, right?。
I'm not sure he was praying in Korean.。
So sometimes I ask him, "Hey, you're praying, right?。
"What kind of language are you praying?"。
Because it's different from normal conversation,。
normal speaking of Korean.。
So I ask him, "What kind of language are you speaking?"。
"No," he said, "I'm speaking in tongue."。
Some sort of mysterious, unknown language。
that only he and God understand, right?。
There's some sort of intimate language。
that only God and him would communicate, right?。
This is kind of like, you know,。
when you hear intimate couple talking to each other,。
you don't understand what they're saying.。
But they're talking, right?。
I remember one time I was in a church conference in Texas.。
I was all by myself, right?。
I went to a restaurant and I ordered my entree。
and I was enjoying my dinner.。
And next to me, at the other table,。
was a dating couple, I guess, right?。
They're pretty young and obviously。
they're in love with each other.。
You know, I can understand every single word they say。
in English, but I don't know what they mean.。
They have their own intimate connection, right?。
Communication.。
I guess speaking in tongue is kind of like that, right?。
So some people have the gift of speaking in tongue,。
some sort of mysterious, unknown language,。
his intimacy with God, and you can't understand。
until it is being interpreted, right?。
So that's speaking in tongue.。
And obviously there are some people who are gifted。
in such a way in the Church of Corinth.。
So as they gather together, some of the people。
will speak in tongue, you know, freely, right?。
And people around them who don't have the gift。
and where there's no translator or interpreter,。
there's no way you can understand what they say.。
That is speaking in tongue.。
And how about prophecy, all right?。
Prophecy.。
So Paul is trying to contrast speaking in tongue。
and prophecy, right?。
But what is prophecy?。
Now, modern people will always understand prophecy。
in a very narrow way.。
What is prophecy to you?。
What does prophecy do?。
It's always prediction, right?。
Weather forecast.。
Oh, will it rain tomorrow at 2.50 p.m.?。
Will it snow tomorrow, right?。
We always approach prophecy that way.。
But, you know, in the Bible, prophecy is much broader.。
You know, look at the prophets in the Old Testament.。
The prophets are spokepersons of God.。
And they always begin the message by, "Thus says the Lord."。
This is what Yahweh the Lord says.。
And you better listen.。
And that's what prophets would do, would say.。
And it's kind of like preaching.。
It's kind of like biblical teaching.。
So prophecy is not just about, you know, weather forecast,。
or what will happen tomorrow.。
It's not about prediction.。
It's about proclamation of the Word of God,。
the authoritative Word of God.。
So Paul is trying to contrast prophecy and tongues.。
And what he's trying to get at is that prophecy,。
or preaching, or biblical teaching,。
is understandable to all the people.。
It's intelligent to all the people,。
because people can understand.。
It's a known language.。
And people can understand its meaning.。
But speaking in tongue, that is a barrier, right?。
Because you need to wait for someone to translate。
or to interpret in order to understand it.。
And Paul, in this passage,。
he talks so much about using those gifts.。
He said in the corporate worship setting,。
you better not use tongues.。
You better use prophecy.。
You better speak in such a way。
that everyone can understand.。
So verse four, he says,。
"A person who speaks in tongue is strengthened personally,"。
because it's an intimate language, right?。
Only God and him would enjoy it.。
But nobody else around him can enjoy it.。
So it's only strengthened personally,。
but one who speaks a word of prophecy, preaching,。
strengthens the entire church.。
And I wish you could all speak in tongues,。
because Paul, obviously, he also speaks in tongue.。
But he never does so in the worship setting,。
in the corporate setting.。
But even more, I wish you could all prophesy, right?。
You could all speak in such a way,。
teach in such a way, preach in such a way,。
everyone can understand.。
For prophecy is greater than speaking in tongues.。
Unless someone interprets what you're saying。
so that the whole church will be strengthened.。
Now notice the key words here, strengthen, right?。
Or the older translation would say to edify, right?。
It's a architectural term.。
So everyone getting together in a church setting,。
in a corporate gathering,。
our purpose is to strengthen one another,。
to pray for one another, to build up one another.。
Your presence, your prayers, your ministry。
is to edify other people。
so that the church can be built up, right?。
And the church, the word church,。
repeated many, many times in the entire chapter,。
nine times in total.。
Paul is saying we should use our spiritual gifts,。
our talents, our abilities to edify the church,。
to build up the church.。
And what we have, our skills and our talents。
are not for ourselves, but means to bless other people.。
It's not my own possession。
because the Spirit gives you in such a way。
that you can serve other people.。
I have been to many churches。
and I've always find that it's such a great blessing。
to see people using their gifts。
and using their skills to build up。
the community of the church.。
Some people who are gifted to help other people, right?。
Help in a very practical way.。
I know a brother in California.。
Every time I meet with him,。
he always ask the question,。
are you in need financially, right, financially?。
He's gifted in such a way that,。
I wanna bless you because God bless me so much.。
And I wanna bless you in such a way。
that God can use you, right?。
It's always good to have a friend like that, right?。
But I don't see him often.。
I don't see him often.。
But he's just gifted in giving, right?。
And some people who are gifted。
in emotional relational intelligence.。
Some people you can meet with them。
and they will encourage you in the conversations。
and they will build you up.。
And you find the conversation with him or with her。
is life-giving, right?。
Some people are especially gifted in such a way.。
Of course, we're always commanded to love one another,。
to care for one another,。
but some people are especially gifted in such a way.。
And some people who are obviously gifted in music, right?。
And they play music。
and so that we can sing songs together, right?。
And some of the gifts need to be developed。
and to be trained to be used.。
Otherwise, you would lose it, right?。
You realize I play most of the instruments, right?。
Why do I do that?。
It's not necessarily I enjoy it,。
but because when I go to different churches,。
you know, I serve different churches in the past,。
I find that it's very useful.。
And if I can get a handle on it,。
I'll learn it myself, right?。
I'll learn it myself.。
Because I want to bless the community that I'm in, right?。
The fellowship, the small group, or the churches,。
wherever I am.。
A couple of weeks ago, we had the MSI event.。
We went to a museum of science industry.。
And for church-wide events, sometimes I do observe。
that we are blessed with many, many people。
who don't take advantage,。
but they understand the purpose of the event。
is to connect with other people,。
especially non-Christians.。
Some people who bring new friends,。
and they just take the initiative to approach those friends。
and talk to them and to relate to them.。
But on the other side of the coin,。
sometimes I see Christians who just enjoy their own time,。
you know, and take advantage.。
And this is sad, right?。
Because we lose the focus, we lose the purpose。
of why we gather together.。
Paul is saying why we gather together is to strengthen,。
is to edify one another.。
Therefore, Paul is saying prophecy.。
When you speak in such a way,。
you can proclaim the word of God。
in such a way everyone can understand this is greater,。
this is stronger than speaking in tongue.。
You just enjoy your spiritual high, right?。
The whole church will be strengthened.。
And that's the first part of this chapter.。
The second part of this chapter,。
let me read part of the passage here.。
And this is a very important passage.。
Verse 23 and following.。
Even so, if unbelievers or people。
who don't understand these things, the spiritual things,。
come into your church meeting, your church worship,。
and hear everyone speaking in an unknown language,。
speaking in tongue,。
they will think that you guys are crazy,。
you guys are nuts, right?。
Because they don't understand.。
Verse 24, but if all of you are prophesying,。
preaching, explaining the faith。
in such an understandable way,。
unbelievers or people who don't understand。
the spiritual things come into your worship meeting,。
they will be convicted of sin and judged by what you say.。
Verse 25, as they listen,。
their secret thoughts will be exposed.。
They will fall to their knees and worship God,。
declaring, "God is truly here among you."。
You see the key word here is understand.。
It's the principle of understandability。
or intelligibility.。
It's the principle of doing something。
that people can understand, even visitors,。
non-Christian visitors, will be able to understand.。
(stammers)。
Let me ask you a question.。
Is our worship design。
understandable to most people?。
Yes, right?。
Yeah, we use, I'm very grateful for worship leaders。
and people who serve in the worship ministry。
and they choose songs that are newer。
or they're more contemporary, right?。
I'm not saying we should abandon the traditional hymns, okay?。
All right, for those, well, I'm probably the older guy here.。
That's so sad.。
But anyways, when we grow up in the church,。
we learn a lot of traditional hymns,。
many, many traditional hymns.。
And when I hear those traditional hymns,。
I immediately go, this is my language, right?。
This is my language.。
And we used to sing from a hymn book, right?。
We sing the old, old hymns.。
But we need to understand worship as a language.。
It's kind of a language or kind of a form。
that is always evolving,。
from time to time, from generation to generation, right?。
Those songs used to be a great hit。
and no longer the language of today, right?。
Again, I'm not saying we have to abandon。
everything traditional.。
I'm not trying to say, let us embrace the newest thing,。
right, like the iPhone, right?。
The newest iPhone, everyone wants to get it, right?。
I'm not trying to say that,。
but the mission of the church, Paul says,。
is to make worship gathering in such a way。
that will honor God and that is also understandable。
to other people, right?。
So I'm grateful for those who try to use songs。
or new songs to worship,。
because the mission of the church。
is not to keep certain tradition, right?。
That is not our mission.。
Our mission is to make faith and the Bible。
and our message understandable。
and that is the spirit of the passage here.。
Those of you who have been to a traditional worship setting,。
when you come in, you pick up a copy of the bulletin, right?。
Do you still remember those days?。
Or I'm just dating myself, right?。
Yeah, you pick up a copy of a sheet of paper。
with the, it's called worship bulletin, okay?。
And it lists every single component of the worship service.。
The first one is usually is the call to worship。
and then there's a prayer and then there's another prayer。
and then you stand up for the prayer。
and then you sit down for another prayer。
and then there's a scripture reading and then preaching。
and then you sit down and you do a certain hymn。
and then after you do a certain hymn。
and then you do some other component。
and then you stand up again for a doxology。
and then you sit down and then you do your silent prayer。
and then you go, right?。
You see what I'm saying?。
There's a traditional liturgy, right?。
Traditional liturgy.。
And some of the churches still do that, right?。
But we don't, right?。
We don't.。
Why don't we print a worship bulletin。
and hand you one copy when you come in?。
Why don't we do that?。
Why don't we do that?。
We don't.。
Because we're lazy.。
We don't wanna do some stuff, right?。
Well, no, no, no.。
We wanna be environmental, right?。
We don't wanna waste paper, right?。
I've been to some churches。
where traditional in worship form,。
after the worship service, you see papers lying around, right?。
And then you just go to,。
those papers will go to the trash.。
But what I'm saying is the form。
or the language of worship evolves from time to time, right?。
Even the instruments that we use, right?。
In my old days, in my old days,。
we only do organ and piano, right?。
So many, many of the traditional churches,。
they have to have organist, someone who play organ, right?。
Wouldn't it be nice if we have a pipe organ in the church?。
Don't you think so?。
Yes?。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
But the maintenance will kill you, right?。
You need to spend a lot of money to maintain those stuff,。
right?。
We use electric piano, right?。
Electric keyboard, right?。
Yeah, let me tell you this little story about drum set.。
Okay, I told some of you about this drum set.。
Now, I remember in the '90s,。
I was in my church in Vancouver, in Canada.。
We didn't have a drum set.。
And some of the brothers and sisters wanted to suggest,。
"Oh, let's use drum set."。
Those are the early days of the worship team, right?。
The band, worship band, music band.。
And we didn't have a drum set.。
And the deacon board called for a meeting to vote。
whether we should buy a drum set using church budget.。
And there was a huge controversy.。
It was a huge controversy because some people,。
the older folks, they said, "Oh, we should buy a drum set.。
"The older folks especially,。
"they are against the idea of putting a drum on stage。
"or buying a drum using church money."。
You know why they think that way?。
You have to understand, they grew up in the '70s,。
you know, the '60s and the '70s.。
Those are the days, you know, sexual revolution。
and all that liberation movement, right?。
And for them, this thing, drum set,。
is for those who smoke weeds, right?。
Those rock band, right?。
The rock musicians, they use this kind of instrument.。
But they cannot change, right?。
Because the language has changed, right?。
And people use drum set for a different reason now, right?。
People play electric guitar for a different reason now.。
Those are the old days, all the rebellious teenagers,。
the young people, would play those instruments, right?。
And they never thought of putting those instruments。
in the church.。
So there was a huge debate。
about whether we should buy a drum set.。
And what is the result of the vote?。
It was no.。
We don't buy it, right?。
And so it didn't carry through.。
So I was serving in the church and I was saying,。
okay, let me just buy it out of my own pocket.。
So I did.。
I spent almost $2,000 to buy this thing, right?。
So this drum set belongs to me.。
It follows me.。
It follows me every single day, you know?。
Whenever I serve in the church, I say,。
hey, you don't have a drum set?。
Boom, here.。
Okay, it's the instrument,。
it's a personal instrument of the pastor, okay?。
The pastor plays drums too, okay?。
So it's okay, all right?。
It's not like we are going astray or something like that.。
But what I'm trying to tell you is that。
there is a different language。
from generation to generation.。
Even the attire is different.。
What we wear is changing, right?。
You go to the tech talks,。
you go to the big announcement from the big company,。
the IT companies,。
you know, those CEOs, they don't wear suit and tie, right?。
They don't do that anymore, right?。
We change, right?。
Whoever does the announcement is short, right?。
And it's okay, right?。
And it's okay.。
And we have to distinguish what the Bible,。
what the Bible says, what the Bible says,。
and what tradition says, right?。
God want us to hear his word,。
but not just our tradition.。
And that's the spirit of the passage.。
Even the songs that we use today, right?。
I remember some months ago,。
I was trying to pause my Hebrew, my biblical Hebrew.。
So I tried to learn some Hebrew songs.。
So it's a very beautiful songs.。
You know, the Hebrew songs, the Middle Eastern melody,。
is actually very, very sweet, all right?。
So I was trying to play those songs。
because I wanna learn some new Hebrew words, right?。
Like Psalm 23, you can sing the whole thing, right?。
And I was using my guitar。
and trying to sing some Hebrew songs。
so that I can remember some of the words, right?。
And then my kids, my children,。
they came over and say,。
"Can you please stop?"。
Because it doesn't sound good, right?。
Actually, it sounds good, right?。
Actually, it sounds good.。
And I sing well.。
And you know, what I'm saying is the language has changed.。
The melody has changed.。
And we have to be relevant, right?。
So the principle here is that worship is vertical.。
Worship is that we bring the offering to God vertically.。
Because we are the people of God,。
and God loves us, and God cares about us, we worship Him.。
All because God has created and redeemed us,。
and we respond to the great acts of God.。
We respond by saying, "God, thank you for saving us.。
"Thank you for letting us be your people."。
So worship is, first of all, vertical.。
But it is also horizontal.。
It's all about other people,。
and we cannot ignore one another.。
And worship needs to be edifying,。
to build up other people。
so that people can understand the message.。
And even it can be, it needs to be missional, evangelistic.。
When people walk into our church,。
when people join our meetings,。
when people come into our worship,。
they will sense that this is different, right?。
And it's not about the size.。
It's about the message that we carry, right?。
People can see, hey, God is in the midst of you.。
And let me close by trying to answer this question.。
How can we be better worshipers?。
First, I would like to suggest, be mindful.。
Be mindful.。
When you come in and worship God,。
be mindful in the sense that we are approaching God,。
we are approaching God with a pure heart,。
and we need to be fully present.。
Our mind, our spirit need to be fully present.。
Even our physical body needs to be fully present。
to prepare ourselves so that we can come。
to the presence of God to be a worshiper pleasing to Him.。
And secondly, let us be reminded。
to be obedient in our attitude.。
When we come in and pray, prepare our hearts。
so that our hearts is a good soil.。
We can receive the word of God, the message of God。
through songs and prayers and sermons and all that we do.。
Be obedient.。
And lastly, let me remind you to be prayerful.。
We approach this holy God, this great and awesome God, right?。
And we need to approach Him with a clean heart.。
I always find this good practice.。
I come into a worship, corporate worship,。
a little bit earlier, and I do a little prayer,。
and I ask for forgiveness.。
I ask that God will forgive my sins and cleanse me.。
And I pray that God will prepare my heart to approach Him.。
And sometimes I even need to pray。
and forgive other people, right?。
Other people, other brothers and sisters,。
other family members.。
I need to ask them, I ask God to forgive them, right?。
So that I can approach God in a new and fresh way.。
How can you become a better worshiper?。
How can you become a better worshiper?。
Let us pray and prepare our hearts。
to receive the communion today.。
Let's pray.。
Father, as we come before your presence,。
we want to say thank you.。
Thank you for forgiving our sins,。
for cleansing us, for redeeming us,。
all because what Jesus our Lord has done on the cross.。
He died and shed blood in order for all of our sins,。
the past, present, and future, everything forgiven。
so that we can be called, declared righteous in Christ.。
Thank you for what you have done.。
And our worship is a response to your grace.。
Thank you for loving us.。
Thank you for calling us to worship you.。
So we ask that you will cleanse our hearts and our mind。
so we will focus on you.。
As we come before the Lord's table today,。
we ask that you will refresh our heart and our spirit。
as we partake the bread and the cup.。
These are the symbols, the tangible reminders。
of your love to us.。
And thank you.。
And may your grace continue to transform us.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
