Welcome family, it's great to be with you again.。
Today is part two of this message that we're looking at asking and receiving in Matthew。
chapter 7.。
We're going to be in verses 7 to 11 again.。
So let's dive into this and look at what God has to say to us.。
Starting in verse 7 it says this, "Ask and it will be given to you.。
Seek and you will find.。
Knock and it will be opened to you.。
For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds.。
And to the one who knocks it will be opened.。
For which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone?。
Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?。
If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more。
will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him?"。
You know, last week as we began to look at this passage and discuss it, we talked about。
kind of the obvious and direct reality of this passage, that Jesus is just challenging。
us to ask God, and that we don't do that enough.。
And a lot of times it's because we don't have faith.。
We're not actually confident and trusting God that he actually will be present in our。
life, meet our needs, bring the transformation that we need or the provision that we need,。
whatever it is that we might be asking for.。
A lot of times we don't trust that God can do that.。
And so we talked about some of those obstacles to faith that we need to deal with.。
Maybe we don't believe that God is powerful enough.。
Maybe we don't believe that God is good enough.。
Or maybe we don't really believe that we're weak and we think that we can still find the。
solutions and the answers and fix our lives on our own without God.。
Whatever those things are, we need to learn to put them out of our life so that we can。
begin to truly trust and have faith in God and begin to ask him for the things that we。
need in our life, the big and the small things.。
And today I want us to consider, what are we supposed to ask for?。
Because if we're learning the lesson that we talked about last week and we're saying,。
"Okay, I want to learn to have more faith.。
I want to learn to have more confidence and trust in God.。
I want to learn to ask God.。
I want to learn to rely on him for everything."。
Then we get to the question of, "But what do I ask for?。
What's important for me to ask for?"。
And that's a really valid question for us to ask.。
James chapter 4, in the first eight verses, it says this, "What causes quarrels and what。
causes fights among you?。
Is it not this?。
Your passions are at war within you.。
You desire and do not have, so you murder.。
You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel.。
You do not have because you do not ask.。
You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions.。
You adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God?。
Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.。
Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the scripture says he yearns jealousy over。
the spirit that he has made to dwell in us?。
But he gives more grace, therefore it says God opposes the proud and gives grace to the。
humble.。
Submit yourself therefore to God.。
Resist the devil and he will flee from you.。
Draw near to God and he will draw near to you.。
Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded."。
This passage is giving us a picture of God's love for us and how God really does want us。
to be in relationship with Him and not distracted by everything else in our world.。
How God even has a spirit of jealousy and says, "Hey, I want you for myself.。
I love you and I want you to be in relationship with me."。
But in the beginning it echoes some of the things that we've been talking about.。
In verse 2 it tells us that we don't have because we don't ask.。
It's saying, "Listen, there's a lot of things in your life that you don't have just because。
you're not asking.。
You're not even asking God for them."。
But then in verse 3 it says that there are things that we ask for and don't get because。
we're asking for the wrong things.。
We are asking for things that we just want to spend on ourselves.。
We're asking for things to gratify our own flesh and our own lusts and our own passions。
and our own pleasures and our own comfort.。
And that's not necessarily what God wants to give to us.。
And so there are things that we ask for and don't get because we're asking selfishly.。
And that's what I want us to think about today as we learn to ask, "What are we going to。
ask for?"。
And I think Jesus gives us some clues in this passage and also just in the context of the。
entire Sermon on the Mount.。
We see that Jesus is pointing us towards what we should ask for.。
So when we look at verse 9 of Matthew chapter 7, Jesus gives us this illustration of someone。
asking for a gift.。
And Jesus says, "Which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone?。
Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?。
If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more。
will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him?"。
Now part of this illustration, Jesus is just pointing us to the fact that God is good and。
he wants our good in our lives.。
And that God is going to act in that way that we can trust the goodness of God, just like。
we talked about last week.。
And that's a powerful truth here.。
But I think there's also a powerful truth here for us to consider about what is good。
in our lives and what is best.。
God knows us in a way that we don't even know ourselves.。
And God is going to work in our lives in a way that is truly for our best, not just for。
what feels good to us in the moment.。
And that brings up some different questions here.。
What does it mean to ask God for truly good things?。
What does it mean to ask God for truly what's best for us in our lives?。
I think all of us can think of plenty of things that we would ask God for.。
And so if we just say, "Okay, God wants me to ask him for things and that's the end of。
it," we would probably all say, "Okay, I know what I want to ask for.。
I want to ask for comfort.。
I want to ask for stuff.。
I want to ask for success.。
God give me a lot of money.。
Give me a big house.。
Give me a few cars to drive.。
Give me good health.。
Give me time to sit on the beach with my family.。
God make things easy.。
Give me relationships where no one's unkind to me.。
And make everything work out at my job.。
Or better yet, make me not even have to go to work anymore.。
Make me no longer have to do school."。
If we were just going to ask for whatever we wanted, it would probably be a pretty long。
list of things that were focused on our own selfishness and on our own comfort, right?。
That's just the honest reality of most of us as humans.。
And that's borne out in the way we live our lives.。
The things that we pursue and the things that we try to fill our lives with are often based。
and focused on our own selfishness or comfort.。
They're based on trying to gain things and possessions and prestige and stuff, comfort,。
pleasure for ourselves.。
And they're based on trying to insulate us from things that would hurt us or make us。
uncomfortable or make life difficult or make anything challenging in our life.。
That's how most of us operate.。
That's how most of us live our lives.。
But is that really what's best for us?。
Well there's no question that that's something that feels good in the moment, right?。
It feels good to have an easy life.。
It feels good to not deal with challenges and adversity.。
It feels good to not have anyone in your life be sick.。
It feels good to not have anyone be unkind to you.。
There's no question that that's what feels good in the moment is pleasure and comfort。
and the pursuit of those types of things.。
But is that what's truly best for us?。
And so when Jesus is pointing us to the fact that God is good and he's going to give us。
good things, he's going to give us bread, he's going to give us a fish, he's going to。
give us what we truly need in our lives to sustain us spiritually, that Jesus is actually。
teaching us to pursue holiness.。
Jesus is teaching us to pursue what's truly important in our lives.。
And I think there's a really powerful truth here as well.。
That God is ultimately waiting for our response.。
I've talked about this a lot, but God is not coercive.。
He is not.。
He's a God of love and he's not a God who forces us to do things.。
God has all the power in the universe, but he doesn't use that power to force us to do。
things.。
He can control things and he turns the course of history wherever he wants it, but he doesn't。
force us to love him.。
He doesn't make us enter into relationship with him, even though he could, because God。
is a God of love.。
And that's true in our lives as followers of Jesus as well.。
We see it true in the world at large that there are many people who do not love God。
and who are not in relationship with him, who are not a part of the kingdom of God.。
God is not going to force them to be in relationship with him.。
But even those of us who have begun relationship with God and come into the kingdom and begin。
to live our lives in obedience to him, he's still not going to force us to change.。
He's going to invite us to change.。
He's going to invite us into transformation, but he's not going to force us to make it。
happen.。
God is waiting for us to respond.。
Just like when you send an invitation to someone and you say, "Hey, I want you to come to my。
birthday party," or "I want you to come to my graduation party," or "I want you to come。
to my wedding and my retirement party," whatever it is, you send the invitation, you say, "Please,。
RSVP," and then you wait for their response.。
That is what God is doing to us.。
God is inviting us.。
He's saying, "Hey, I want you to come into relationship with me.。
I want it to be deep and fulfilling and satisfying, and I want it to be transformative in your。
life.。
And this is what I'm inviting you to.。
I'm inviting you to live out the values of the kingdom and to experience all the goodness。
of what it means to be a child of God.。
But I'm not going to force you to do it, and I'm going to wait on you to respond."。
And that's what God is doing.。
Because God is waiting for us to respond, we have to begin to pursue holiness.。
We have to begin to choose to draw near to God, like the book of James talks about.。
If we will draw near to Him, then He will draw near to us.。
But He's waiting for us.。
I think that's really powerful.。
A lot of times when we look at our life and we say, "Well, I've asked for something that's。
not coming to pass," or "I want to grow in my faith, and why doesn't God just make that。
happen in my life?"。
Sometimes we assume that it's God's fault, that like, "Well, this hasn't happened yet。
because God just doesn't really love me or He doesn't really care about me, or He doesn't。
want to meet this need, or He doesn't want to help me grow in my faith, or He doesn't。
want to change this thing in my life."。
And actually the opposite is true.。
God is right there the whole time saying, "I love you.。
I want to go deeper in fellowship with you."。
We're the one who is not responding to God.。
We're the one who's holding God at arm's length, and we're the one who's saying, "God, I don't。
want to go any further in my relationship with you.。
I don't want to give you any more control over my life.。
I don't want to give you any more access into my heart."。
God is waiting for our response, and Jesus is teaching us that we need to pursue holiness。
and draw near to God.。
God wants to give us those things that are spiritually sustaining to us, the bread and。
the fish, but we don't have them because we're not responding.。
We're not asking God for those things.。
We're not saying, "God, instead of just making me comfortable and giving me everything I。
want in my life, can you give me the things I truly need?。
Can you give me holiness?。
Can you give me righteousness?。
Can you help me to live rightly before you?。
Can you help me to live out the values of the kingdom, even if it means walking through。
adversity?"。
But we don't ask for that, and God is waiting for us to ask.。
God is waiting for our response.。
There was this pastor of a previous generation that spent a lot of time preaching and ministering。
right here in Chicago.。
His name was A.W.。
Tozier.。
He wrote a lot of excellent books, so if you haven't ever read any of them, I encourage。
you to check some of them out.。
I remember reading one of his books and coming across this interesting statement where he。
said, "Every man is as holy as he wants to be."。
On the face of it, that statement sounds kind of crazy and almost heretical, right?。
It almost sounds like, "What is this guy saying?。
Is he saying that we manufacture holiness, that we make holiness happen?"。
We know that is not true in any way.。
That it's only through Christ and what he's done on the cross that we could ever draw。
near to God.。
It's only through Jesus that we could ever have relationship with God.。
It's only through Jesus that we could ever experience holiness.。
It's not that we manufacture holiness, and that's not what Tozier was saying.。
What he was saying is that when there is a deficit in our holiness and the rightness。
of our relationship to God, it's because there's a deficit in our desire.。
It's not because God doesn't want us to be holy.。
It's not because God doesn't want to teach us and grow us.。
It's not because God doesn't want to take us farther.。
It's because we don't want it.。
We don't want to go any further.。
We don't want to grow any more.。
We don't want to become more holy and any closer to God.。
And that is a powerful truth.。
I think Matthew 7 is really pointing us towards that here.。
Jesus is saying, "Listen, I want you to learn to ask God for good things in your life, and。
you need to know what to ask for.。
Ask for the good stuff.。
Ask for holiness.。
Ask for the spiritually transformative things in your life, because that will cause you。
to grow into who God wants you to be.。
And if you're not growing into who God wants you to be, it's not because God doesn't want。
it for you.。
It's because you don't want it, and you're not moving towards it.。
You're afraid of it, or you're holding on to your sin, or you're letting something else。
hold you back.。
And I think when we look at these verses in Matthew 7 in the context of the Sermon on。
the Mount as a whole, we see that Jesus is teaching us that God desires us to possess。
and live out Kingdom values.。
If we say, "Okay, Jesus is telling me to ask," and if we just pulled this passage out, Matthew。
7, 7-11, and looked at it out of context, we could say, "Well, what is Jesus telling。
me to ask for?"。
Anything, right?。
Like I said earlier, maybe it's just stuff and comfort and pleasure.。
But when we look at it in the context of the entire Sermon on the Mount, it begins to open。
up what we're supposed to ask for.。
Jesus tells us to ask, "What has He been talking about this whole time?"。
He's been talking about the values of the Kingdom.。
He's been talking about poverty of spirit.。
He's been talking about meekness.。
He's been talking about being a peacemaker.。
He's been talking about storing up treasures in Heaven, seeking first the Kingdom of God.。
He's been talking about being pure of heart.。
He's been talking about having a clear spiritual vision.。
All these things that we've discussed over the last year that Jesus has been talking。
about, that's the context of this statement where Jesus is asking, "It will be given you."。
He's saying, "Hey, here's the values of the Kingdom.。
I'm laying them out in front of you."。
And as you listen to them, yes, they are things that you do not currently possess in your。
life.。
So ask, and it will be given to you.。
Ask God for them.。
Seek them, and you will find them.。
Look, and God will open that door and begin to give you those values of the Kingdom in。
your heart and in your life and begin to allow you to live them out.。
And that's one of the things that Jesus is teaching us here.。
Jesus is teaching us what to ask for.。
We should ask for the values of the Kingdom.。
We should seek the values of the Kingdom, and we should ask God to begin to give them。
to us so that we possess them and we live them out in our lives.。
Another thing that Jesus is teaching us here is that God is more interested in our spiritual。
well-being than our material well-being.。
That's really important for us to understand.。
When we think about prayer and we think about asking God, I think all of us have had experiences.。
If you've been a follower of Jesus for very long, I'm sure you've had an experience where。
you've asked God for something, and you didn't get what you wanted, or you didn't get it。
in the way that you wanted.。
And that's challenging for us.。
That challenges our faith.。
That causes us to say, "Okay, God, can you answer prayer?。
Do you want to answer prayer?。
Why would you not answer this prayer?"。
It gives us a lot of questions, right?。
And I think we need to understand that God is more interested in our spiritual well-being。
than our material well-being.。
Sometimes we ask for something that may be what's best for us materially and physically,。
and in the moment we may ask God for some stuff or for some pleasure or for some comfort。
or to work something out in a way that's great for us.。
And maybe that's not what God wants to do in our life at that moment.。
Because maybe God sees that giving us that thing or that position or that situation or。
that job or that educational achievement or whatever it is in that moment would actually。
not be what's best for us spiritually.。
Maybe that would cause us to be proud or cause us to look down on other people.。
Or maybe it would just cause us to miss out on a lesson that we desperately need to learn,。
that we've got to go through some adversity to learn.。
And so God in his love for us is more concerned with our spiritual well-being than our material。
well-being.。
And sometimes God says no or sometimes God says wait when we ask because he has a lesson。
that's so valuable for us to learn spiritually that we would not learn if he just said yes。
and gave us the thing that we want.。
And we have to remember that when we're asking God.。
Jesus is pointing us to that in the Sermon on the Mount.。
He's saying yeah, there's a lot of things that you could ask for, but here's what you。
really truly need, what's really truly going to be good for you and what's really truly。
going to bring peace and fulfillment and satisfaction and joy into your life is to possess and live。
out the values of the kingdom.。
You need to ask God for that.。
And God's more focused on you being healthy spiritually than he is on you just getting。
everything you want out of life.。
And that's really valuable and powerful for us to know.。
There are times when we just want things to be easy and simple and quick and exactly how。
we want them to be.。
And we ask God for that.。
And that's okay.。
It's okay to ask God.。
But God doesn't necessarily say yes to that because God wants what's best for us in a。
deeper way.。
And that's what God is going to move towards.。
You know, God is more interested in his kingdom than ours.。
Sometimes we ask God things that really just have to do with our own kingdom and our own。
pursuit and what's going to benefit us.。
And God loves us and he wants good for us, but he's more interested in the goals of his。
kingdom than he is in ours.。
And that may sound selfish.。
We might say, well, how could God be so selfish and not want what's best for me?。
But if we're honest with scripture and who God says he is, if God really is all powerful。
and all knowing, then how foolish would it be for him to allow our goals and priorities。
to outsize his goals and priorities.。
His kingdom should come first.。
And so it's only right for God to be more interested in the goals of his kingdom than。
in the goals of our kingdom.。
And the reality is that God is more interested in his glory than ours.。
And again, if we're honest with scripture, that's only right.。
That's exactly how it should be.。
God should be more interested in glorifying himself than in glorifying us.。
And so as we ask for things in our life, we need to understand that God is going to respond。
and God is going to teach us and to grow us and to love us.。
But it may not always move in the direction of our glory or the goals of our kingdom or。
even our comfort and pleasure.。
Sometimes it will, but there will be many times when it does not because God is more。
interested in our spiritual well-being.。
He's more interested in glorifying himself and in advancing his kingdom than in just。
giving us what we want.。
So I want to give us a few things to think about as we close out here.。
As we begin to think about asking God and what we should ask for, I would say, don't。
be afraid to ask God for anything big or small.。
God cares about your life and he wants to hear the desires and needs of your heart.。
So pour those out to him.。
Even if those are small things, pour them out to God.。
If they're emotional needs, pour that out to God.。
If they're physical realities, pour it out to God.。
Even if you're not sure and you say, "Well, I don't know if I'm just asking for my own。
comfort or pleasure."。
There's nothing wrong with asking.。
If that's not what God has for you, then God will reveal that to you.。
But it's just like little children are not afraid to ask a loving parent for a gift,。
even if they know the answer might be no.。
And we are God's children.。
He loves us.。
So don't be afraid to ask for gifts, even if it's something that may not be right for。
you at the time.。
God can tell you no.。
Don't be afraid to ask for anything big or small.。
Pour your requests out to God.。
Consider that privilege that you have of going before the Almighty God of the universe to。
make your requests known.。
And then I would encourage you to, if you're not sure whether or not you should ask for。
things, ask for things that you know are in alignment with kingdom values.。
Ask for things that you know are in alignment with God's will.。
You know, we can say, "Well, I don't know if I should ask for this in my work or for。
that in my work."。
Well, if one situation in your job is going to give you an opportunity to display poverty。
of spirit or to be a peacemaker, then you should probably ask for that because it's。
in alignment with the values of the kingdom.。
There are certain things that we don't have to wonder about whether or not we should ask。
for or God wants us to have them if they're already in alignment with kingdom values.。
We don't have to ask God and say, "God, do you really want me to help the poor and the。
needy?。
Is that something that you want me to do?"。
The answer is already yes.。
God's made it clear that that's a kingdom value that we should be helping those who。
are in need.。
So you might need to ask some specific questions about how you do that and who specifically。
you help.。
But you don't have to ask whether or not you're supposed to help because you already know。
the kingdom value there.。
And so think about kingdom values in your life and some areas, some of those situations。
that you may be confused about and you may be asking God's questions.。
Maybe those questions are already answered just by looking at and aligning yourself with。
the values of the kingdom in those areas.。
And ask for things that match God's priorities, that align with God's priorities.。
What's important to God?。
God wants the people around you to feel his love, to feel his forgiveness, to feel his。
grace, to feel his goodness.。
God wants the people around you to come into relationship with him.。
And so if you say, "Well, I don't really know what to pray for my family," or, "I don't。
really know what to pray for my friends or my co-workers or my classmates," that's a。
great place to start.。
Start asking God for those things.。
You know what God's priorities are for those people in your life.。
God wants them to experience his love and his forgiveness.。
God wants them to come into relationship with him.。
God wants them to be served by you, by the members of the family of God.。
Start asking for that stuff.。
You don't have to wonder if God's interested in those things.。
We already know that God is.。
Those are priorities in God's heart and in God's kingdom.。
And ask for God's glory, things that are in alignment with God's glory.。
Again, we don't have to wonder if God is going to be behind things or in things that are。
glorifying him.。
We know that God is going to be in things that are glorifying him.。
And so when you face a situation in your life and you're like, "I don't know what to pray。
here.。
I don't know which outcome to pray for," that's a great place to start.。
Say, "You know what?。
There's this situation before me and this could happen or that could happen, and I'm。
not sure what God wants in my life."。
Begin to pray, "God, would you be glorified?。
I don't know what I'm supposed to choose.。
I don't know what's going to happen.。
I don't know the future.。
I don't have control over it.。
But would you be glorified whatever happens?"。
Begin to ask for things that are in alignment with God's glory.。
The reality is none of us have as much control over our lives as we think we do.。
We are not able to control the situations that are presented to us in life, but we can。
control the way that we respond to them.。
And God wants us to ask for his help in every situation that we face.。
God wants us to ask for his help when we have a need.。
God wants us to ask for his help when we are afraid, when we are confused, when we don't。
know where to go, when we need guidance, when we experience some type of deficit in our。
ability and we say, "God, I want to love this person, but I don't know how."。
Or "God, I want to live out the kingdom values in this situation, but I don't have the capacity。
to do that."。
God wants to help us in those situations.。
God wants us to ask for his help in every situation of our life.。
And we need to learn what to ask for.。
The things that align with the values of the kingdom, the things that align with God's。
priorities, the things that align with God's glory.。
We need to learn to seek holiness, to seek to draw near to God.。
We need to pursue that because God is waiting for us to respond to him.。
If there's not holiness and righteousness in our life, it's not God's fault.。
It's on us because we're not moving towards him.。
He's always moving towards us.。
And we need to really seek and ask God to allow us to possess and live out these values。
of the kingdom.。
Let's pray.。
God, I thank you for the privilege that you've given us to ask you.。
And I pray that we would learn to ask you for the right things.。
I pray that we would learn to ask you for the things that are truly best for us, for。
the things that are spiritually valuable, not just for our material and physical well-being,。
but that we would ask for the things that really are going to be best for us.。
I pray that we would learn to ask for things that align with the values of the kingdom,。
that align with your will and your priorities, your goals, and your glory in our life, God.。
And God, I pray that you would help us to begin to ask and seek to pursue holiness in。
our life, to pursue deeper relationship with you.。
And I pray that you would help us to ask that we would be able to possess the values of。
the kingdom, that you would give us these values of the kingdom that we've talked about。
in our hearts in a real way so that we can live them out and that we can experience you。
using us to bring healing and love and encouragement and salvation to the world around us, to the。
people around us, God.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[MUSIC]。
