Here we go.。
Mark, it is good to see you.。
Happy New Year to everyone.。
For those who are here, it is great to be back.。
For those who are online, it is great to be back.。
For those who are not familiar, my name is Tommy Lee.。
And I get a chance during the week, actually,。
when it's quiet here, my office is right here。
because we get a chance to share some space。
with Urban Voice and they have graciously,。
continuously allowed us to work here during the week.。
Born and raised here in the Chicago area,。
born in Bridgeport, born in Chinatown,。
and now I live right over on 35th in Indiana.。
And so a lot of times, I've been working。
on this series on Elijah.。
And so I wanna go through a passage。
that we looked at the last time I was here.。
I wanna at least close the loop and talk through。
some of the lessons that we learned.。
Then I wanna do one more at 1 Kings 19,。
and then we're done with the story of Elijah.。
And Elijah is this one guy who's really unimpressive.。
He's not someone who kinda, someone that you sit there,。
he's not David, he's not Solomon, he's not even Saul,。
he's not Peter, he's kinda rough around the edges.。
He comes from a rural area.。
Scripture calls him, he's this Tishbit from Tishbe。
in Gilead, as 1 Kings 17 tells us.。
He's this guy who just comes out of nowhere.。
And look, I mean, the author even tells us he's from Gilead。
because we don't even know what a Tishbit is.。
We don't even know what Tishbit is.。
We know it's somewhere in Gilead,。
and that's what 1 Kings 17 tells us.。
And so he comes out of nowhere in 1 Kings 17,。
and he gets a meeting with the king,。
King Ahab of the Northern Kingdom.。
As we talked about the last time I was here,。
and we looked at 1 Kings 17, post-Solomon,。
post-David, post-Saul, the kingdom of Israel。
was split into two parts.。
You had a northern part, northern kingdom,。
which was called Judah, and the southern part,。
which was called Israel.。
Israel was the site of the Babylonian invasions.。
That was where, when you look at Nehemiah, Ezra,。
that's where the story takes place.。
Our story with Elijah takes place actually。
right in the northern kingdom.。
And out of the northern kingdom,。
there's 19 kings who ruled for a long time post-Solomon.。
And scripture tells us all 19 kings。
were evil in the eyes of the Lord.。
None of them were good.。
All of them were bad.。
But the king that we're looking at today。
during the time of Elijah was King Ahab.。
He was the worst of the worst of all of the kings.。
But ironically, he actually was not the worst.。
His wife, Queen Jezebel, actually ends up。
being the villain of the story, as you will see,。
throughout 17, 18, and 19, the first kings.。
And so this guy, Elijah, this Tishbit the Tishbi in Gilead。
gets a meeting with King Ahab.。
How this real guy gets a meeting with the king,。
we don't know.。
But he shows up one day and he gets a meeting with the king。
and he tells them and the king this,。
"Neither dew nor rain except by my word."。
He predicts a drought.。
He says, "You will not have dew, you will not have rain,。
"and it'll last for three and a half years."。
And he tells them that my motivation is。
the God before whom I stand.。
That's why I'm doing all these things.。
I'm doing it on behalf of the God before whom I stand.。
And so from that point on, later on,。
once he says that to the king,。
he then ushers him over to Cherith.。
God says to him, "Go to Cherith."。
And he walks over to Cherith.。
And therefore, now he just doesn't,。
he lives there for at least a year。
or maybe a long number of months,。
not definitely, not a couple weeks,。
where scripture tells us he's fed by the ravens。
and he is drinking from the brook over in Cherith.。
Soon after, the brook dries up in Cherith,。
and God tells him, "I want you to go to Zarephath."。
And it's a hundred miles walking.。
By the way, it's the birthplace of Queen Jezebel,。
who is the villain and the queen of this entire story,。
married to Ahab.。
"Go, walk over to Zarephath,。
"and there you will find a widow."。
And he comes across this widow and she's picking up sticks.。
And this widow is picking up sticks and he approaches her,。
and she says to him, "Look, whatever you need,。
"I don't have anything.。
"I'm picking up sticks.。
"I have a little flour, a little oil.。
"I'm gonna mix it with water.。
"I'm gonna make some bread,。
"and then my son and I are gonna die.。
"And we're just gonna eat and die.。
"That's it, we have nothing.。
"So Lord, you made me walk a hundred miles。
"to Zarephath for this, yes?"。
The Lord knows where you are.。
The Lord knows what you need.。
The Lord knows where you're going.。
That's the key that Elijah had to learn.。
The God before whom I stand, that's my motivation.。
Go to Zarephath, go to Cherith, all of those things.。
We follow the Lord because one, he knows where we are,。
he knows what we need, and he knows where we're going.。
It doesn't go according to plan.。
It may not be where we wanna go.。
It may not be what we think that we need,。
but the Lord knows what we need,。
where we're going, and where we are.。
Later on, stories, his son dies and all that other stuff,。
and now there's a miracle that performs,。
and now today in 1 Kings 7, 18,。
which some of you guys who have been here have heard,。
and so we're gonna go through that story one more time,。
is the showdown and the battle at Mount Carmel.。
And so now it's been three and a half years.。
The drought is finally over.。
And 1 Kings 18 tells us,。
"After many days, the word of the Lord came to Elijah。
"in the third year, saying, 'Go, show yourself to Ahab,。
"'and I will send rain upon the earth.'"。
After three and a half years, go to Ahab, the drought is over.。
So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab.。
Now, the famine was very severe in Samaria.。
Samaria is the capital city of the northern kingdom。
where Ahab has his kingdom.。
The famine is very severe, the drought is very severe.。
It's been three and a half years of no water.。
And there later on, there's Obadiah,。
we don't have time to go through that,。
that's the chief of staff, his conversation, Obadiah.。
And so now he gets to Ahab and he proposes a challenge.。
Ahab, we're gonna meet at Mount Carmel.。
You bring all your prophets, Abau and Asherah.。
I will bring my God and we're gonna meet here。
and we're gonna call upon the name of the Lord。
and whoever, whatever happens, if the Lord brings fire,。
whichever God, whether it's Abau or my God brings fire,。
that is the true God, what do you think?。
Ahab says, I like this idea.。
You have one God, I have 450, let's do it.。
So they came together and they meet at Mount Carmel.。
450 prophets, Abau and Asherah shows up.。
Elijah shows up and all of Israel, because they're curious,。
they wanna know what happens.。
They all show up and here's what he says.。
So Ahab sent to all the people of Israel。
and gathered the prophets together at Mount Carmel.。
This is verse 20, chapter 18.。
And Elijah came near to all the people and said,。
"How long will you go limping。
"between two different opinions?。
"If the Lord is God, follow him.。
"But if Baal, then follow him."。
And the people did not answer him a word.。
The Israelites sat there and stood there.。
They had no response.。
They did not answer him a word.。
One of the things that we talked about,。
and there's two things that I wanted to touch base。
on the second part, is are we limping。
between two different opinions?。
As Christ followers, as Christians,。
are we limping through two different opinions?。
Let me give you two illustrations of what that means。
for us in our context.。
There's the first one, there's more the black。
and white version of it, right?。
In terms of limping between two different opinions.。
The first one is that we limp between following Christ。
and we limp between the world.。
It's black and white.。
We have one foot following Christ, we're all in.。
We're all in in terms of following Christ.。
But there's another part of our life。
where we're attracted by what the world offers.。
We're attracted by the power, the influence,。
the money, the wealth, the promises.。
We limp between following Christ。
and following what the world has to offer.。
Because that was Ahab and Jezebel's problem.。
They wanted the prosperity and fertility。
which they believed that Baal could offer them.。
For us as Christians, we want what the world has to offer。
because it's the money, the relationship,。
the job, the status that we believe。
is the answer to all of our problems.。
That's what Judas believed.。
That's why he turned on Jesus.。
That's what David believed。
and that's why he made the decisions。
when he saw Bathsheba, he wanted Bathsheba.。
That's what Solomon believed and all of his wisdom,。
the wisest of all the kings,。
fell into a lust of women。
because for him, that gave him fulfillment.。
But ultimately, did Judas find fulfillment?。
Ultimately, did David find fulfillment?。
Ultimately, did Solomon find fulfillment?。
The rich, young ruler, when Jesus would come in front of him,。
the rich, young ruler wanted to follow Jesus。
and Jesus says to him, "Sell everything and follow me."。
The rich, young ruler had a hard time.。
The black and white issue is that as Christ followers,。
we limp between two different opinions.。
We limp between the opinions of following Christ。
versus the opinion of what the world has to offer.。
Now, here's the one thing.。
And some of you guys are sitting here right now.。
So it's like my friend who I was texting。
and when I was originally did this sermon,。
this one friend texted me and she says,。
"You know, I have a hard time following。
"and giving up my life because I actually,。
"do I really wanna sell everything。
"and be poor all my life just to follow Christ?"。
I actually think sometimes people believe that.。
I believe that a lot of times with Christians,。
we sit here and we say, "Okay, following Christ。
"means I have to sell everything,。
"I have to be poor and give up everything."。
Is that what, no, no, no, no, no.。
I don't think that's really what God is trying to say.。
Being a Christian does not mean that you sit there。
and you sell everything and you become poor。
and you give up everything.。
For some of us who are sitting here,。
God has placed us in a position,。
whether it's your job, your gifts, or your creativity,。
all of those things, he has given you certain things.。
Some of you guys who are sitting here right now。
have the capability of making money.。
If God is giving you the skills and the gifts。
to make money, make money.。
If God has given you the skills to be a pharmacist,。
be the best pharmacist that you can.。
If God has given you the skills to be an engineer,。
be the best engineer that you possibly can.。
Whatever you do, thrive and be successful at it.。
That doesn't mean that you can't have vacations。
or have nice stuff and all that stuff.。
You know what it means to follow Christ?。
It's whose life do you belong to?。
That when you sit there and look at all your skills。
and all your gifts and all your money and all your time,。
whose life does it belong to?。
Do you sit there and just say, "A part of it is mine,"。
or, "Lord, here's my entire life.。
"Here's all my skills that you've given me.。
"Here's all my talents.。
"Here's everything I'm able to achieve。
"because of your name, and I lift it up to you."。
Whose life do you belong to?。
That's one aspect of wrestling。
between two different opinions.。
What's the other one?。
Here's another one that's kind of new,。
that's emerging as well, too,。
that I really wanna talk with,。
because I'm not sure, I bet you some of you guys here,。
especially living in the US and being in America,。
you probably see, it's this.。
We are disenchanted by the local church.。
We get frustrated by Christians.。
We get frustrated by what we see。
on behalf of the church in America and over the world.。
That has created a new phenomenon。
that we've started seeing in the last 10 years.。
Let me give you some examples of what I mean by that.。
And I wanna land on that.。
That's one of the reasons why I wanna spend。
some time on this.。
There's this whole aspect of limping。
between two different opinions, black and white.。
One way in the world, one way of following Christ,。
but there's another one where we're limped。
between two worlds, and it's a little more gray.。
What do I mean by that?。
Let me talk about this.。
It's this whole idea.。
I don't exactly like this word,。
but people have been using it,。
calling it the deconstruction of the Christian faith.。
Here's what we're beginning to see a lot.。
Church attendance over the last 10 years。
have continued to decline at a rapid rate.。
Here's some reasons.。
We're dissatisfied with many of our church options.。
I'm not, and this is not Urban Voice, please,。
but this is just a general church in America.。
People in America are frustrated。
by the behavior of church members.。
We don't know how to disagree anymore.。
We fight too much.。
In too many churches, the whole idea of proclamation。
refers to justice, politics play a role in it,。
everything like that.。
People are frustrated.。
People are frustrated with what they see。
and the behavior of different church members.。
People are frustrated because they feel like。
when they come to church, it's just a show.。
We sit there, we listen to music,。
and some of these guys just have all these different pizzazz。
and lights and smoke shows and all these different things.。
We feel like it's a show,。
and we're frustrated by what we see.。
More and more, you're hearing about。
the controversy of pastors,。
the things that they do,。
the things, times when they get in trouble.。
We're frustrated by how much that we read in the news。
about how bad pastors are.。
The church is intolerant and exclusionary to people。
who do not believe like them or act like them.。
The church in America is unwilling to engage。
in contemporary issues.。
We don't talk about the role of the church。
as dealing with migrants.。
We don't deal with church issues in dealing with racism.。
We do talk a lot about black, white.。
Sometimes we have a hard time with that.。
We don't talk about Asian hate。
a lot of times in many churches.。
Churches struggle with talking about LGBTQ.。
We don't talk about cultural issues in churches.。
There is an overemphasis on political and social agendas.。
There's many belief that if you're a Christian,。
you have to be a Republican.。
You can't be a Democrat.。
Democrats disagree with all of these things.。
And people may say,。
"Hey man, it's been really developing。
and building up since COVID."。
No, no, it's been building up for over 10 years.。
Back in the early 80s and 90s,。
a few churches, a few pastors in the US。
began to experiment with a new way of doing church,。
according to different people who are out there。
in terms of Barna studies and also Gallup studies.。
These ministries began to design a church experience。
that will be available to everyone。
in which it reaches out to everyone.。
It would draw and make church attractive.。
One author writes this,。
"The logic was simple.。
If the baby boomers in the US。
did not feel the need to connect with God,。
then perhaps another felt need。
would draw them into the church,。
the need for community, entertainment,。
help with their children and their marriage.。
They would include music, improve the music,。
support groups, drama, sermons。
that reached out and ministered to you.。
And hopefully you will find God as well."。
And that was a strategy.。
And that strategy worked very well in the 80s and 90s.。
Evangelical churches began experimenting。
on Sunday morning services with worship experience。
with the emphasis on production.。
In the 1990s, the emphasis starts shifting。
to program, art, and services。
that really excited and drew in different people.。
New churches strip religious icons from their exteriors。
and interiors and gravitated toward an architectural style。
that blended the feeling of a mall,。
a university campus, movie theater versus a church.。
Church could be anything。
as long as it wasn't boring.。
But the problem is,。
the problem with creating a church that attracted people。
that we saw in the US in the 80s and 90s,。
created another problem.。
The growth and direction of the modern church。
was fueled and influenced by money。
donated by all of these people。
who were attracted by this model。
because the plan worked.。
People started coming to church。
and there started being a lot of money。
flowing into churches.。
And now churches began to really fall。
in the temptation of consumerism.。
And soon, many other churches,。
not only in the US but around the world,。
began to copy this model and it worked.。
But there was a cost.。
One author writes this,。
"Instead of the church becoming a place。
"where the people of God are equipped for work and service,。
"showing up to church began to be an end in itself。
"and instead of a launch pad into the world,。
"Christianity became a belief system。
"that insulated us from the world.。
"Through consumer Christianity,。
"the value of God in our lives became predicated。
"on how well he fulfilled our needs."。
And now you started creating a church。
full of different consumers.。
In a church as entertainment culture,。
instead of seeking to be equipped as disciples of Jesus,。
we are slowly formed into consumers and others。
who give ratings and reviews on local church performance.。
But when we expect the church to entertain us,。
it limits the church's ability to challenge us.。
And now here we are for what we have.。
And we've seen it now,。
church attendance becoming a drop.。
And in some sense, actually,。
you would think that as a drop of attendance,。
people actually are walking away from religion.。
They're not walking away from religion.。
They're still saying they're Christ followers.。
They're still saying they pray.。
They're still saying they read the Bible。
and all that stuff.。
They're still religious.。
They just don't go to church anymore。
because they just wanna be consumed and entertained。
and go from one place to another to another.。
And when it doesn't fulfill them, they just don't go.。
But you know what's going on instead of that?。
Even though they're no longer going to church。
and some of you guys may feel that way,。
this is what's happening in the American church.。
Even though they don't go to church,。
you know what's still happening?。
They're still watching cable news.。
They're still paying attention to their social media.。
They're still watching YouTube。
and they're still watching and listening to their podcasts.。
But the accountability, the community,。
the fellowship, the guardrails are no longer there.。
And so they're listening to what they want on cable news,。
on podcast, on YouTube,。
and they now have become a different person.。
Theologically, they're changed,。
but they have no accountability anymore.。
That's what's going on.。
There's one aspect of living。
between two different opinions,。
one foot in the world, one foot following Christ,。
but there's another part of us。
in which we're frustrated by the church experience.。
We don't want anyone to tell us what to do anymore.。
And if we don't like what we hear,。
then we'll move on to something else.。
But yet at the same time,。
we're still consuming things that reinforces our view.。
And now we're limping between two different opinions.。
And that's where the current state of the church is at.。
Are you limping between two different opinions?。
For me, that the second option is where I struggle with.。
I have grown as a Christ follower,。
as I sit, stand here with you,。
disenchanted with the church.。
I get frustrated with the church.。
I've been in ministry doing this for about 20 years now.。
I get frustrated by the pastors that I meet,。
not Mark, I love Mark,。
but there's so many pastors who I read when I was a child,。
who I sat there and listened to.。
And when I meet them, I'm sitting there,。
seriously, you're all consumed about money and power.。
The people that I, all the things that they're,。
I get frustrated when I sit in a church,。
I get frustrated by the politics that they talk about.。
I get frustrated by Republican party.。
I get frustrated by the Democrat party.。
I get frustrated when we ignore。
all of these different things.。
You know why I also get frustrated at?。
The conversations, even when we, as Christians,。
we dwell on the race.。
I sat there with Latino pastors, African-American pastors,。
all of us are Asians.。
Well, most of us are Asians,。
but I get frustrated sometimes even as Asians,。
because as Asian Christians,。
we're expected to be the quiet, obedient culture.。
We're expected not to cause trouble.。
I had a pastor who says to me,。
"Tommy, racism here in America is a black brown thing.。
"You Asians, you have it easy.。
"You guys are the ideal culture.。
"You guys get everything."。
And I had to explain,。
"Hey, look, when my parents immigrated here in 1972,。
"they worked hard to get to where we are."。
And so a lot of times, you can't expect us,。
as Asian Christians, to take a back seat。
and be the stepping stone.。
I get frustrated by all of these conversations.。
Are you limping between two different opinions?。
Are you seeing the problems that you have?。
And for the Israelites, when Elijah challenged them,。
they said nothing.。
Do you even wanna do anything about it?。
And the answer is yes.。
What are you gonna do about it?。
In light of how God has gifted you and all of that,。
what are you gonna do about it?。
Or you'd be like the Israelites,。
who had nothing to say.。
And you were quiet.。
And maybe some of us who are sitting here,。
it says, "I'm good.。
"I'm good, I see the problems of the church,。
"I see the problems of my faith,。
"but you know what, I'm happy with coming in on Sundays.。
"I'm happy just to be sitting here,。
"and then once I walk out of here on Sunday,。
"I'm gonna do my own thing.。
"I'm good, I'm good, I'm good."。
Because if that's your answer,。
then there's nothing for us to say.。
Then we're done.。
Go do your own thing.。
But if you're sitting there,。
I wanna do something about it.。
What are you gonna do about it?。
Elijah goes in, in verse 30,。
and he said to all the people,。
"Come near to me."。
And all the people came near to him.。
And he repaired the altar of the Lord。
that had been thrown down.。
He took 12 stones according to the number。
of the tribes of the son of Jacob,。
and with the stones he built an altar。
in the name of the Lord.。
If you wanna do something about it,。
you're wrestling between,。
you're limping between two different opinions.。
If you wanna do something about it,。
how do you rebuild and repair your altar?。
How do you rebuild and repair your altar?。
I wanna find one way that you could do it.。
Do you have people in your life。
that speaks truth to you?。
Do you have people in your life。
that says no to you?。
Do you have people in your life。
that stretch you to become the version。
that Christ Jesus wants you to be?。
Do you have people in your life。
that pushes you?。
Or do you surround yourself。
with people in your life。
that tells you what you want to hear?。
Let me tell you one story.。
Back in late November,。
right after Christmas,。
my friend Sharon was a paralegal。
who was diagnosed with stage four cancer。
right on her last day of work.。
Her goal was to retire early.。
She retired early at 48.。
On her last day of work,。
she was diagnosed with cancer.。
And there she had to battle for two years。
through chemo, radiation, and all of that.。
On a Thursday night,。
the first week of December,。
she was slowly struggling,。
slowly just not doing well.。
The doctors had told her。
she did not have time to live.。
She wanted all her friends,。
different friends,。
to stay with her at night,。
and it happened that on that first week,。
right after Thanksgiving,。
on that Thursday night,。
I was assigned to stay with her.。
And I walked in,。
and I actually did not want to be there.。
I had just gotten back from out of town,。
did not want to be there,。
but my wife says to me,。
"You don't know what's gonna happen.。
"She's not doing well.。
"You need to go see her."。
So I got all my stuff,。
was gonna stay there with her that night,。
and I got to the hospital,。
and when I walked in,。
her face was white,。
and she was just staring out。
into the darkness.。
And the nurse and doctor says,。
"She has not been doing well."。
And I said, "Okay."。
And her oxygen was dropping,。
she stopped breathing,。
she was having a hard time breathing,。
all of that stuff,。
and she got stabilized that very night.。
And it was about midnight,。
and she had fallen asleep,。
and she was snoring, actually.。
And the nurse comes in and says,。
"Wow, that's pretty good.。
"She's snoring."。
And at 12 midnight,。
her oxygen started dropping,。
and it was about 90-something,。
and it kept dropping.。
I was the only one in the room.。
It's midnight.。
I was the only one in the room.。
And it kept dropping from 90,。
to 80,。
to 70,。
to 60.。
Suddenly, all these nurses,。
all of these guys,。
there was about 20 people in the room,。
and as it was dropping to 59,。
the nurse says to me,。
"Whoever you have to wake up,。
"call them."。
Because when I lift this ventilator,。
this mask off her,。
she has three minutes before she dies.。
And now I had to call everyone.。
And there,。
she never,。
her family came,。
her friends came,。
she never made it,。
and there she died in front of me.。
But the week before,。
when I saw her,。
on that Sunday,。
Sharon knew that her time was about to be gone,。
and she grabbed my hand,。
and she says,。
"I am angry at God.。
"How did God allow this to happen to me?。
"How did God allow me to suffer so bad?。
"Help me understand."。
And that's where we sat there,。
and we talked,。
that sometimes we don't understand。
how God does things.。
God never promises that he'll save us.。
He promises that he'll be with us,。
but he doesn't promise us pain-free.。
He doesn't promise that we're gonna be free of trials.。
He promises that he'll give us strength,。
he'll be with us.。
How do we rebuild and repair the alters in our life?。
Do we surround ourselves with people。
who are willing to tell us things。
that we don't wanna hear?。
Are we willing to surround ourselves。
with people who tells us no,。
who guides us,。
who tells us and help us see God clearly。
in the midst of all these things?。
If we're limby between two different opinions,。
whether it's with the world or with our faith。
or with what we're seeing in the church,。
that's great,。
I totally understand.。
What are you gonna do about it?。
'Cause if you don't wanna do anything about it,。
then we don't have to do it.。
There's nothing for us to talk about.。
But if you wanna do something about it,。
what are you gonna do?。
How do we repair and rebuild the alter?。
And lastly, as we look at things,。
once they rebuild the alter,。
he praises one thing in verse 36.。
"At the time of the offering,"。
and so the bowels and all prophets bowed,。
they couldn't call their God, no one came, all right?。
They doused it with water, everything, nothing came.。
And at the time of the offering of the oblation,。
Elijah, the prophet came near and says,。
"O Lord, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel,。
"let it be known this day that you are God in Israel。
"and that I am your servant。
"and that I have done all these things at your word.。
"Answer me, O Lord, answer me,。
"that this people may know that you, O Lord,。
"are God and that you have turned their hearts back.。
"Then the fire of the Lord fell。
"and consumed the burnt offering。
"and the wood and the stones and the dust。
"and licked up the water that was in the trench.。
"Are you praying that God will show up in your life?"。
Elijah prayed and asked the Lord,。
"Let it be known this day that you are God in Israel。
"and that I am your servant.。
"I need you to show up.。
"Are you praying that God will show up in your life?"。
Now, here's one thing, God is always at work in your life.。
God is always present in your life.。
But sometimes what you and I need。
is that we're praying that God show up in our life.。
Make it known.。
Show us that you're real.。
Show us that you're,。
because you know what, we need to be reminded.。
Because life is hard.。
It's not easy.。
We get discouraged.。
The things of the world drives us crazy,。
the discouragement, the things that we face。
each and every single day.。
And there are times in the midst of following the Lord,。
we're gonna need strength.。
For those who are sitting online。
and for those who are sitting there,。
we're gonna need some encouragement along the way.。
Are we praying that God will show up?。
Because if we don't,。
we're gonna struggle along the way.。
Can I read you one more story?。
Or one more email that I got?。
And I apologize that this,。
all my illustrations have been on death and struggles,。
but here's one more of an email。
that I actually received this week that actually struck me.。
And it's this guy who is an inter-varsity staff worker,。
and he has been working inter-varsity。
for a while, he says,。
"Some of you have prayed for me for my whole life.。
"Ever since I joined inter-varsity as a freshman。
"at the University of Illinois in 1992.。
"Thank you to your prayers, love, and support.。
"God's ministry through me has touched。
"over 100,000 people because of through you.。
"The true extent won't be known until we reach heaven.。
"And now heaven is where we will meet next."。
As I've lost my 27-year-old health battle。
with migraines, with Crohn's disease, with all of that.。
He talks about all the wonderful things。
that God has allowed him to do through their support.。
But my death will have been several days ago。
by the time you get this.。
God will judge me by the 50 years of my life,。
not the moment of my death.。
When I read this email,。
I actually had to read this a couple of times.。
I said, "Did he just say what he just said?"。
He did.。
This guy who has been serving for 27 years of his life。
needed some encouragement from God.。
And he didn't, he couldn't find it.。
And he ended his life earlier this week.。
And now he's sending an email to all his supporters saying,。
"It has been a couple of days and you will soon,。
"by the time you read this, I will be dead."。
Yes, I will have passed.。
Our life, and the thing is, for a guy who struggled cancer,。
and some of you guys know I've struggled cancer,。
I know what that means.。
I know what he's dealing with.。
Every day I wake up, my body aches.。
Every day I wake up, I have chills throughout my body.。
I probably don't have what he had.。
Every day I struggle migraines.。
Every day I have no saliva, no tears, all that.。
My head is just pounding.。
I just dealt with three weeks of a sinus infection,。
and since I've weakened the immune system,。
my sinus and my headaches were just attacking me.。
It just kept painful, pounding and pounding and pounding.。
This guy had to deal with 27 years of it.。
He lost sight, and he ended his life because of it.。
We have to ask God to show up in our life.。
We need God to give us strength.。
The reason why we're not, we're wrestling between two,。
we're limping between two different opinions.。
The reason why we don't have the strength to follow God.。
The reason why we're so attracted by the world.。
The reason why we get attracted。
and disenchanted by the church。
is because we don't know how to repair or rebuild our altar,。
and one of those ways to rebuild and repair the altar。
is the community of believers,。
but also praying that God will show up。
and that we will see God every aspect of our lives,。
because you and I are in a journey of following Christ,。
and that journey is not easy.。
If anything that the story of Mount Carmel teaches us。
as we wrap up is that what it means to follow in Christ。
is that you're gonna go through tough times.。
You're gonna have to have choices that you have to make.。
You're gonna have to make decisions。
about what you're gonna do with my faith,。
because you can sit there and say,。
"I'm a Christ follower," and go through the routines,。
but if you truly wanna make a difference with your faith,。
you're gonna have to surround yourself。
with believers who pushes you,。
but you're gonna have to ask God to make himself known,。
to show up in your life and remind you。
of what it means to follow after him,。
and before I pray, I wanna say one thing,。
and later on as we look at that story,。
the fire comes down, and Elijah, as he prays,。
the fire comes down and burns up the burnt offering。
because it's a simple reminder。
of what happens when Jesus comes,。
because the fire could have destroyed。
and killed all the Israelites that were gathered there。
for their disobedience.。
It could have killed all the folks。
that bowed for their disobedience,。
but no, the fire destroyed the burnt offering.。
When Jesus came, the judgment of God。
could have been placed on all of us,。
but no, the judgment of God was placed on the sacrifice。
in the form of Jesus Christ that was found on the cross.。
That's the gospel message.。
That's what Jesus reminds us of.。
That's why we follow after him.。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you for the message of Elijah.。
Thank you for how this Tishbite of Tishbe and Gilead。
continues to teach us all these wonderful lessons,。
and the lesson today of what it means。
to live between two worlds,。
what it means to repair and rebuild our altar,。
and what it means for you to show up。
and for us to pray that you will show up.。
Give us a strength.。
Let us draw that strength.。
Let us see you.。
In Christ we pray, amen.。
(piano music)。
