- Pastor Mark, thank you very much, welcome.。
My name is Tommy Lee,。
and I'm born and raised here in the city of Chicago.。
So 44 years old, been here,。
living here on the South side of Chicago,。
graduate from Washington University in St. Louis。
over at business school.。
And then for about 10 years, I built cell towers.。
But during that period of time, I said,。
Lord, what is it that you want me to do?。
Is it to be a pastor?。
Because I've always wanted to do full-time ministry。
and serve you.。
And so at night, I went to seminary.。
I went to Moody Theological Seminary for about four years.。
And then after that, I graduated。
and I was a pastor for about three years.。
And through that, I realized,。
God, you did not call me to be a pastor.。
That just was not my skill.。
That was not how you've gifted me to do it.。
And so now in the last 12 years,。
I get a chance to utilize some of my strengths,。
utilizing some of my experience in the business world,。
in the ministry world.。
So I get a chance to lead four different organizations,。
whether it's at Resource Global and at the Growth Center。
and different other organizations。
to continue to integrate how God has gifted me.。
And that really is the whole idea,。
the theme today that we're gonna talk about。
for those who are in-person,。
those who are watching online.。
What does it mean for us to be Christ in the world?。
God is giving you a story.。
All of us have a unique story.。
Our stories are different.。
But within those stories,。
there's chapters of the whole idea。
of chapters of a role that God leads all of us.。
And there is a journey that he uses。
as he continues to develop our passions。
and our strengths to ultimately follow him.。
And today we're gonna look at a specific story today.。
The story of David and Solomon.。
That as David dies,。
he leaves him with three simple words,。
three simple phrases that Solomon needs to understand。
in order to be a successful king.。
And that's what we're gonna look at today.。
And so before we turn on,。
you know, the last,。
I've been with you all for three times already.。
And the last three times I've talked about the history。
and life of David.。
And the whole story started,。
which leads us to this point.。
David is a young shepherd boy.。
Samuel is told by God that Saul is no longer the king。
and Samuel, I need you to go to Bethlehem.。
And I need you to choose the next king.。
Samuel goes to Bethlehem and there he meets Jesse.。
And Jesse parades his son。
and Samuel looks at his oldest son comes in。
and the Lord tells him,。
do not look at the outward appearances,。
but the Lord looks at the heart.。
None of the brothers,。
the older brothers are suitable to become king.。
Samuel then asked Jesse,。
is there someone else?。
He ushers in the youngest boy.。
David is in the shepherd field.。
He's in the sheep,。
tending the sheep in the field.。
So he brings them in.。
And there he is anointed as king.。
If you are on the side,。
now, if you ever get a chance,。
there's this lady by the name of Dr. Laverne Tolbert.。
And she wrote this nice little pamphlet that says,。
the title, I serve you just as my mother did.。
And it looks into the Jewish history。
of why David is so faithful to God.。
And he makes one phrase in the Psalms.。
He says, I serve you just as my mother did.。
And we talk and we look at the faithfulness of David。
all throughout scripture.。
And that's what God is using him.。
That's what God has seen in his life.。
Story goes on.。
Another sermon that I did with you guys,。
David and Goliath.。
All of you guys are familiar。
with the story of David and Goliath.。
David battles the giant because he is sent,。
he wasn't even chosen to be a soldier.。
He is sent by his father to go deliver food。
over to his brothers.。
And there he sees Goliath.。
And he sees the Philistines coming against the Israelites.。
And as we talked about,。
the reason why the Philistines are attacking the Israelites。
is the Israelites control the passageway。
to the Jordanian Valley.。
In order for them to get past the Jordanian。
and control the passage,。
they have to get rid of the Israelites.。
David is the only one brave enough。
to fight the Goliath the champion.。
And ironically, Saul, who is the King of Israel,。
is a Benjamite.。
And one of the things that we talked about is。
what do Benjamites do?。
They're experts in the slingshot.。
But Saul did not think of the slingshot.。
Saul is afraid of Goliath.。
And so David kills him with the slingshot.。
Now, you all think that the story after that is。
happy ever ending, right?。
And as a result, David ascends to become King。
and story is over.。
No, it actually doesn't.。
The story of 1 Samuel tells us then。
David is now chased by Saul because everyone loves David.。
Songs are written about David.。
Messages, everything.。
Everyone is a fan of David, except Saul.。
And Saul ends up whining to kill David.。
And so as a result, from 1 Samuel all the way to 22,。
about 17 to 22, it tells us the story of David running.。
David runs to his wife or actually more so before that,。
David loses his job.。
Because Saul no longer wants him to work for him.。
He tries to kill him.。
He runs to his wife, Michal.。
Well, Michal is married to Saul's,。
is married, Michal is a daughter of Saul.。
So he can't stay there.。
He runs to his mentor, Samuel.。
Well, eventually Saul finds him there and he has to leave.。
He runs to his best friend, Jonathan, who is the son of Saul.。
Well, eventually he can't go there.。
Everything he could depend on from his job,。
from his wife to his mentor, to his best friend,。
things that he could depend on are all gone.。
All these crutches are taken away from him.。
You know where he ends up?。
He ends up in the city of Gath,。
the home of the Philistines, the home of Goliath,。
who he just killed.。
And he ends up pretending to be a crazy man.。
After that, he can't stay there.。
He ends up in 1 Samuel 22, in the cave of a dulem by himself.。
Everything is gone.。
All the stories, all the songs,。
all of his crutches are all gone.。
That's where David is.。
And he writes, if you guys have a slide,。
he writes Psalm 57 and he writes Psalm 142.。
And there in 142, if you get a chance,。
let's take a look at 142, extra 142, is this.。
Next slide.。
Psalm 142, I cry out to you, O Lord.。
Yeah, I cry to you, O Lord.。
I say you are my refuge,。
my portion in the land of the living.。
Attend to my cry, for I am brought very low.。
Deliver me from my persecution,。
for they are too strong for me.。
Bring me out of the prison,。
that I may give thanks to your name.。
The righteous will surround me,。
for you will deal bountifully with me.。
All his crutches are gone,。
and he has no one else to depend on,。
but the Lord, as he wrestles by himself。
in the cave of Doolam.。
The Lord needed him to learn that journey。
of what it means to depend on him.。
That David, when all the crutches are gone,。
when all the people that you could depend on are gone,。
can you still have faith and trust in me?。
David had to learn that lesson.。
Once he learns that lesson,。
God brings a community around him.。
He now then becomes king.。
And not only does he become any king,。
he becomes one of the greatest kings in history.。
The greatest king Israel has ever seen, second to Jesus.。
But yet, everything doesn't go well, does it?。
He makes a serious mistake.。
The man after God's own heart makes a serious mistake.。
The biggest mistake that he makes is Bathsheba.。
He has an affair with Bathsheba.。
A son is born through Solomon.。
He ends up killing Bathsheba's husband, Uriah the Hittite.。
He doesn't make a lot of good decisions.。
And he has to learn to deal with the consequences。
and the repercussions of his sin.。
And that will affect his legacy.。
That will continue to affect his kingdom。
and what history writes about him.。
And so now the story ends.。
And now we are over in 1 Kings 2.。
David is now an old man.。
Solomon, his youngest son,。
who is the son of Bathsheba and David,。
is gonna become king.。
And we all know about Solomon.。
One of the wisest kings in history.。
David sits down with him.。
And he gives him these three phrases.。
When David's time drew near,。
he commanded Solomon, his son, saying,。
"I am about to go the way of all of the earth.。
"Be strong and show yourself a man.。
"And keep the charge of the Lord."。
Be strong, show yourself a man,。
and keep the charge of the Lord,。
walking in his ways and keeping his statues,。
his commandments, his rules, and his testimonies,。
as it is written in the Law of Moses,。
"That you may prosper in all that you do。
"and wherever you turn."。
And that's what we're gonna talk about,。
is three simple phrases.。
Not gonna spend too much time breaking out the verse.。
I wanna talk about what those verses mean。
in our culture today,。
not only for those who are sitting here。
in Chicago, Illinois,。
but those who are watching it。
from different parts of the world.。
What do the phrases, be strong,。
show yourself a man,。
and walk in his ways,。
mean for us as Christ followers,。
each and every single day?。
What does it mean in our work?。
What does it mean in our family life?。
What does it mean in our personal life?。
And that's what we're gonna talk about today.。
Be strong, show yourself a man,。
walk in his ways.。
First one, be strong.。
One of the things, a couple months ago,。
or actually probably about a month ago,。
my wife is a first grade teacher。
here in Chinatown in Chicago Public Schools.。
About, man, about one o'clock,。
I'm on the Zoom call doing interview.。
And I get a text from my wife saying,。
"Our school is on lockdown.。
"There is a shooter somewhere inside the school。
"or outside the school, no one knows."。
That's it.。
And so I'm on this Zoom call,。
and I call her back right away.。
Nothing, get nothing.。
I go back to my work at three o'clock,。
she calls me up,。
and she says to us,。
"There was somebody killed right outside our school.。
"And Tommy, I think the person who was killed。
"is the father of our closest friend.。
"The Lamb family who are pastors。
"right next door to this church,。
"their father and father-in-law were killed,。
"was killed and shot 22 times。
"by an individual for no reason at all,。
"but just driving down Chinatown,。
"sees them, shoots them,。
"gets out and shoots them in their 20-something times.。
"And now that pastor and his family,。
"the pastor and his family who had to counsel people。
"all the time about how to deal with grief,。
"talk to them about how to deal with trials and tough times,。
"they are now the ones dealing with that grief.。
"They are now dealing with that tragedy."。
In the weeks ahead, in the weeks now,。
I've gotten the chance to spend a lot of time。
with the family.。
I sit with the daughter a lot,。
and we sit there on Friday nights,。
I see them quite a lot on Friday nights.。
And she tells me about how life is now,。
that her father has now been murdered.。
Her mother is now dealing,。
because literally her husband went to get a newspaper,。
walked three blocks to get a newspaper.。
On his way home, he never returned home。
because he was shot.。
And she's dealing with the grief.。
And the daughter tells me, "Tommy, every day,。
"I remember the last conversation I had with my dad.。
"I just replay the conversation over and over。
"and over again.。
"And you know what makes it hard?。
"I'm trying to figure out and deal with not being angry,。
"not being bitter against certain cultures。
"or certain things that are happening.。
"I'm trying to choose not to be angry at God."。
One of the things of being strong in our faith。
is that we continue to embrace compassion and love,。
and that we never, ever allow anger。
and resentment overcome us.。
Whether it's the problems that we see in our world,。
or whether it's in our personal life,。
we continue to make a choice to embrace compassion and love.。
And you never allow anger and resentment to overcome you.。
And in today's society, that's a hard time, isn't it?。
For some of us who are sitting here as Asians,。
I can understand that you see some of the Asian violence。
going on in today's society as well, too.。
Recently, I was driving down 35th Street.。
Many of you guys come down 35th Street,。
you get off the highway.。
I live about five minutes away from here.。
I'm driving down 35th Street,。
and there's a car weaving in and out, in and out,。
and it gets right behind me and wants to turn.。
But well, I have a no turn on red, so I am not turning.。
A guy comes in, again, it's an African American guy.。
And he comes right back to me, he rolls down his window,。
and he says to me, "This is why we effing shoot you people."。
And I was shocked, and I said to the Lord,。
and he drives off, and I left wondering,。
Lord, what does it mean to love。
the people who are hard to love?。
What does it mean for us to learn to forgive。
as you forgave, because you had to deal。
with the ultimate sacrifice.。
Learning what it means to have compassion and love。
does not mean that we're a stepping stool for everyone.。
It does not mean that people get to do whatever they want.。
As Christians, we say, oh yeah, that's fine,。
we forgive them.。
Being strong means that we love and have a compassion。
for everyone, but we do fight the injustices in our life.。
That we do stand up and call out those injustices。
in our life.。
I love, we just celebrate Dr. King, right?。
I love the words of Dr. King, and if you guys。
could put that quote on the screen as well, too.。
Dr. King says this, I'm sorry about this,。
I should've made the font a little bit bigger,。
but I'll read it over to you.。
He says this, "Wherever the early Christians。
"entered a town, the power structure of God disturbed。
"and immediately sought to convict them。
"for being disturbers of the peace and outside agitators.。
"But they went on with the conviction that they were,。
"it was a colony of heaven, and they had to obey God。
"rather than men.。
"They were small in number, but big in commitment.。
"They were too God intoxicated to be astronomically。
"intimidated.。
"They brought an end to such ancient evils。
"as infanticide and gladiatorial contest."。
Being a Christ follower means that we continue to love。
every single death, people with despite their skin color,。
despite their sexual orientation, despite all of that.。
It means that we love people as Christ would love them.。
But what it does mean is that we do stand up。
to those injustices that we see, that we continue。
to make a difference in the cities and structures。
that we make, that as Christ followers,。
that we make it a better place.。
That our workplaces, our homes, our cities,。
our communities, whether it's in Chicago,。
whether those who are watching from other parts。
of the country, that you are integrating your faith。
into all that you do.。
But you choose to do it with the spirit of love。
and compassion, and that you never make decisions。
out of anger and resentment.。
And that's hard to do, isn't it?。
That is hard to do.。
I recently had the board meeting。
for my organization Resource Global.。
We just sat here.。
And the board sat down with me and says,。
"Tommy, how's your family?"。
Great, great, great.。
But they said, "How are you doing spiritually?"。
And I said to them, "I'm struggling spiritually."。
You know why I'm struggling spiritually?。
It's been hard to love people.。
Because the more I sit in ministry,。
it's been now 15 years now,。
and the more I get involved in ministry,。
the more I deal with pastors,。
pastors that I've read in books,。
pastors that I've listened to on podcasts,。
the more I interact with Christians,。
they're hard to love.。
They take advantage of you every single time.。
They find ways to cheat you every single time.。
And I've been so surprised by that.。
And I said to the board,。
"I've grown disenchanted.。
I have to choose to see beyond that。
and see Christ in everything I do.。
And it's a choice that I have to make.。
And it has not been easy."。
So for us, one of the things is be strong.。
To really be able to continue,。
to really be able to love the Lord,。
to have compassion in all that we do,。
and never lead out of anger or resentment.。
Secondly, show yourself a man.。
Two things I'll say about that.。
Show yourself a man is number one example,。
is be willing to take ownership。
of your mistakes and sins in a very humble way.。
One of the ways of showing yourself a man。
is that we are all grown up.。
It's not like my two-year-old daughter。
who doesn't like to share,。
and now I have to sit here and talk to her。
about what it means to share.。
She's two years old.。
She's learning.。
All of us are adults.。
It's being willing to take ownership。
of our mistakes and sins in a very humble way,。
knowing that we're not perfect,。
knowing that we're gonna make mistakes.。
But when we make those mistakes,。
are we willing to take ownership of it?。
We look at David all throughout scripture.。
A man after God's own heart,。
and he made a lot of mistakes.。
And he had to take ownership of those mistakes.。
Peter was always putting his foot in his mouth all the time.。
Paul had to deal with the fact。
that he had to sit there and deal with Christians。
when he was a Gentile,。
and he messed with them all the time,。
and he persecuted all the time.。
He had to live with that guilt。
after he became a Christ follower.。
I have two friends, two very successful individuals,。
and these two individuals,。
married couple, husband, wife, they were Chinese.。
They were extremely successful in the sense。
that they graduated from a prestigious university。
over in California.。
Then they worked for a tech company.。
Many of us used their computers.。
They worked for a very extremely influential tech company。
and was very successful.。
They then went to get their MBAs over here at university.。
Again, and then from that point, after their MBAs,。
they got hired for an athletic shoe company。
that many of us wear their shoes,。
and also was in a very prestigious position.。
The wife specifically oversaw all of the marketing。
for the World Cup,。
and eventually she was gonna be promoted。
for vice president of marketing in Asia.。
Right, great story.。
It all came crashing down.。
Why?。
The husband got caught selling shoes on eBay.。
A guy who earned over $300,000 a year。
thought it would be exciting。
to make a little money selling shoes on eBay,。
and after a while, you get caught,。
and he got fired right away.。
The wife who worked with them, HR called her in,。
and he said, "Did you know any of this。
"was going on with your husband?"。
"Yes, I did."。
"At any point, did you actually report this to HR?"。
"No, I didn't."。
"Hey, she had just gotten promotion.。
"She just got all her papers get promoted,。
"vice president of marketing for Asia.。
"They were gonna move to Hong Kong."。
He said, "You didn't report it.。
"You're fired as well, too."。
Instantly overnight, everything that they had worked for,。
gone.。
They struggled through their marriage.。
They struggled with identity.。
They struggled with the decisions they had to make,。
but they had to rebuild their life.。
One of the things I've appreciated。
about this particular couple is they admitted。
with the husband, "I made some mistakes, some bad mistakes."。
How do we then rebuild our life?。
How do we humbly make amends for our mistake,。
and those were dumb mistakes,。
but rebuild our life and continue to go on?。
All of us are gonna make mistakes.。
Are we humble enough to take ownership of our mistakes。
and sins in a very humble way?。
The other thing to be strong is this one.。
Be willing to listen to voices around you。
because you're not perfect,。
and we all need accountability.。
For Solomon, if he was to be strong,。
to show yourself a man,。
Solomon was the brightest of all the kings.。
Solomon knew, and he called the shots.。
Was he willing to listen to the voices around him。
because you're not perfect,。
and we all need accountability?。
I travel a lot for my work,。
and during the fall, I was gone a lot。
for about six weeks straight.。
When I got home, I noticed a distance。
between I have a two-year-old daughter。
and a seven-year-old daughter,。
and I noticed that they were always going to their mom。
all the time, and they kinda ignored me.。
My wife says to me, "Hey, Tommy,。
"you've been gone quite a lot,。
"and when you're at home, you also have meetings.。
"You're out early in the morning.。
"You have evenings, all that stuff.。
"Have you noticed that the girls。
"aren't coming to you anymore?。
"You need to spend more time with your girls."。
You know what the easy, justifiable thing is?。
I've been to Nairobi.。
I had to come back and do this and this and this.。
When I come home, I have a late-night meeting。
with Jakarta and all that stuff.。
Do you not know how hard I work?。
You have to deal with it.。
Was there truth in what they had to say?。
Was there truth in what they had to say?。
I come back, and I meet with my team,。
and now we've gotten to a point with Resource Global。
where over 30 people, big, they sat down with me。
and says, "Tommy, as this organization continues to grow,。
"we need more structure, and you don't provide。
"that structure that we need."。
Again, you know what the temptation is, right?。
I'm the boss.。
Guys, do you not realize I'm trying to make money?。
I'm out there meeting with donors,。
and I'm trying to make this thing survive.。
Is there truth to what they have to say?。
Are they speaking any truth?。
Can I be humble enough to listen to them?。
And so as a result, I had to make changes.。
I had to bring in different people。
and change their position and admit。
that there are certain areas I wasn't good at.。
And be okay with that.。
I say this all because sometimes it's hard。
for us to listen to voices.。
And I will say this, for those who are older。
who are sitting there, sometimes the Chinese culture,。
the Asian culture, especially if you're older,。
says you've gotta respect your older elders,。
you gotta listen to your elders.。
I encourage you, if you're older sitting there,。
learn to listen because when you work。
with that younger generation, they will actually respect。
and honor you more when you take time to listen.。
I sit there and talk to my mom all the time,。
and she says, "Well, I want everyone to respect me."。
But her idea of respect is everyone just listens。
and does whatever she says.。
But I tell her all the time,。
respect is that you communicate.。
Respect means that you dialogue。
and be willing to admit you're wrong,。
that you're not always right.。
And so for all of us sitting here,。
one, be willing and humble to make mistakes,。
but also be willing to listen to the hard things。
in your life, the times when you don't want to hear。
what people have to say, but is there truth。
to what they're saying about you and your character,。
even though it's hard to hear?。
Solomon had a hard time hearing that.。
You know, eventually what was the downfall of Solomon?。
He got caught up too much in the love of women.。
That became ultimately, his ego became so big。
that he stopped listening.。
The one of the wisest kings who actually had an opportunity,。
I believe because of his talent, surpasses his father, David,。
but he refused to listen.。
He refused to admit mistakes,。
and soon eventually gave in to sin as well too.。
Last thing, be strong, show yourself a man,。
walk in his ways.。
We have a couple minutes left.。
I wanna show you a couple of slides here.。
I show one slide here.。
My friend Andy Crouch talks about this.。
He says that as individuals, as human beings,。
we approach life with the exploitative attitude.。
Our method in life is we wanna take all you can get.。
Our attitude is I win, you lose.。
We've been taught about that all our life, right?。
You gotta take care of yourself.。
I hear that quite a lot.。
You gotta take care of yourself.。
And then once you take care of yourself,。
take care of your family.。
Then whatever you have left over,。
then take care of everyone else.。
And so we approach life with this method of,。
we're gonna take all you can get.。
We gotta think about ourselves.。
I win, you lose.。
But Andy says this, and let's show the next slide.。
He approaches life with this.。
He says, as Christ followers, here's our attitude.。
All right, oh, yes.。
With the ethical attitude,。
the approach is do things right.。
That our attitude is you win, I win.。
Guys, let's keep that up there.。
That we approach things with the whole idea。
is that you win, I win.。
It is not a matter is I take everything I can.。
It is the attitude of, it's always others first.。
It is always about Christ loving other people.。
It is always about you and I being a steward。
of what God gives me.。
It's a choice that we make every single day。
to make sure that the other person wins,。
the other person succeeds,。
the other person is successful。
in everything they do at our expense.。
But it's a choice that we have to make.。
Solomon had to make a choice.。
David had to make a choice.。
David made a choice when he chose Bathsheba。
when he should have been out with the army battling,。
but he chooses himself。
and has a fatal mistake with Bathsheba.。
Solomon chooses pleasure。
as a result destroys his kingdom as well too.。
As Christ followers, being Christ in the world。
means you approach life with the ethical attitude.。
That it is never about other, I mean yourself,。
but it is always about others.。
It is a decision that you make, not only your heart,。
but with your mind to choose that。
in every single decision that you make,。
it honors God and glorifies God in every single way.。
I would say this, and I say this with the young people.。
If you're in your mid-20s。
and you're just graduating and working in a job,。
the decision that you're gonna have to make。
for those who are in their young mid-20s to early 30s,。
whose life do you belong to?。
Before you become rich。
and before you start ascending into the corporate world。
and all that stuff, whose life do you belong to?。
Are you gonna make a decision。
that in every aspect of your life,。
from your money to your career, to your dreams,。
your family life, is all given to the Lord?。
Because if you wait until you're successful,。
if you wait until things get stabilized,。
you'll always give in to the temptation。
of choosing yourself.。
Being a Christ follower means that we make decisions。
that never benefit us.。
We make decisions that glorify God in all that we do,。
that we are a steward of what God has given us。
at our expense, and it's a choice that you have to make.。
One last illustration, and I'll wrap up.。
I get a chance to travel a lot, all the time.。
And one of the countries that I travel to is Nairobi.。
I think I've shared a little bit of this illustration,。
but let me just build out this illustration at all.。
When you go over to Nairobi, there are a lot of streets,。
everything is all remodeled, airports, streets, roads,。
highways, overpasses, everything.。
It's all being funded by the Chinese.。
The Chinese are giving so much money to build roads。
and infrastructures and technology.。
But in the process of that,。
they are bribing other people, officials,。
and paying them so much money that those who are from,。
the Chinese are getting rich,。
but the African politicians are also getting rich。
at the expense of the people,。
because there are still a lot of people who are poor.。
What you need is Christ followers in the workspace,。
Christ followers in the government,。
Christ followers integrating their faith,。
choosing others first, never about how much it can make me.。
To make a decisions that benefits the country。
and our societies and our communities as a whole.。
And that's what we need for all of you who are sitting here,。
Christ followers that makes a difference in a community.。
That when you walk away, wherever you are,。
that in your workplace or in your home or in your cities。
or in your community,。
that community is left in a better position。
because you made decisions that didn't benefit you,。
but benefit them.。
That's what it means to be Christ in the world.。
That's what it means to make a difference in the world.。
The cross of Christ brought us to where we are.。
Christ died for our sins.。
Christ is our example in all that we do.。
Our job now is to continue to glorify,。
to be a steward of what he has given us.。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you for all that you do.。
Thank you for your words.。
Thank you for your leadership.。
Thank you for the cross.。
Thank you for your grace.。
As we remember the words that David gave to Solomon,。
be strong, show yourself a man, walk in his ways.。
May we take those words and apply that。
in our life as well too.。
Christ we pray, amen.。
