- Thank you, Phoebe.。
Yeah, one more reminder is that we have a few workers,。
interns among us, and I wanna personally introduce them。
and wanna appreciate their work and ministry in the summer.。
The first one, of course, is Phoebe.。
So Phoebe is one of our summer intern.。
She is finishing off her master's study。
at Lagos Evangelical Seminary,。
so she's doing some intern here.。
And also Wendy, is Wendy around here?。
Back there, right?。
Yeah, Wendy.。
Wendy is another intern, so we wanna thank her。
for doing all the background and backstage ministry for us.。
And also Lucy, Lucy right there.。
And thank you for joining us for this summer intern,。
and she is studying as Wendy as well。
at Moody Bible Institute,。
and she is music composition major.。
So if you want some new songs, go to Lucy.。
She will be helping us with the instrument。
and all the music as well.。
So do pray for our interns, all right?。
We're going to put them to work,。
and they will work very, very hard, okay?。
So they will have a very, very busy month in the summer.。
So let's pray together.。
Father, give thanks as a community of faith,。
as your believers, we come before you.。
We know that we are born in the spirit.。
Thank you for the privilege and the blessing.。
We can praise you, we can worship you,。
we can draw close to you.。
Thank you for inviting us into your presence,。
and may your spirit speak to us。
and lead us into true worship.。
And may all that we do, all that we think,。
and all that we say be pleasing to you.。
We again come before you.。
We ask that you will cleanse our sins,。
and you will forgive us.。
You will help us to come before you,。
knowing that in Christ we are righteous,。
because all that your son has done for all of us.。
Pray for our church as well.。
During the summer, there are people in now,。
especially there are some brothers and sisters。
who are out of town, and I just pray。
that you will grant them safety.。
I also wanna pray for those who are sick,。
who are going through some challenges and struggles.。
Pray that you will grant them peace and healing.。
As we open the scripture,。
we ask that your spirit will lead us into your truth,。
and let your truth set us free,。
and build up your church, and build up our life.。
In Christ, we pray.。
Well, we will continue our series on worship,。
and this is a seven-part series.。
We are in part number six.。
So we began this series asking the question,。
how can we be better worshipers?。
How can we be better worshipers?。
How can we become better worshipers as a group,。
as a church, as a community?。
And there are many questions we need to ask ourselves,。
or confront ourselves,。
because God is pleased when his people worship him.。
And we have reminded all of us that from the Bible,。
from cover to cover, from the first chapter。
to the last chapter, in some sense,。
worship is all that the Bible is all about.。
And what God is doing in humanity is that to rescue us,。
and to live in us, and to dwell in us.。
And today, we're going to talk about。
some of the aspects of worship.。
And we try to do something like a summary.。
Try to find from the pages of Scripture。
what worship is all about,。
and what are those elements happen in corporate worship.。
When we worship together, what are the elements,。
what are the things that we do,。
or things that the people in the Bible do when they worship,。
and to reflect upon how we can prepare ourselves,。
how we can become better worshipers.。
So I have summarized some of the aspects。
or elements of worship from the Bible,。
especially from the New Testament,。
or also from the Old Testament as well.。
From the whole Bible, try to summarize。
what are the main aspects of worship.。
When we come before God to worship together,。
or when we call upon the name of Jesus to gather together,。
the New Testament reminds us。
whenever there were two or three people,。
calling in the name of Jesus,。
gathering in the name of Jesus,。
God is in the midst,。
God is dwelling among them in his presence.。
So what did they do, right?。
What did they do?。
What do we do?。
And there are eight elements I have tried to summarize.。
So in this part and the last part next week,。
we're going to go through this list。
and see what the Bible says。
about all these aspects of worship.。
And first of all, it's about songs, right?。
We sing songs, right?。
We sing songs and we sing praises to our God。
when we gather to worship together.。
No matter we gather in a church like this,。
like this kind of setting,。
or we gather into small group,。
or we even go to retreat, right?。
We get together as a small group.。
We get together to worship.。
And of course, the first thing that we do。
is that we sing songs, right?。
There are general principles from the Bible。
about using songs in worship.。
However, the Bible never dictate the details, right?。
You agree?。
Does the Bible dictate what kind of songs that we sing?。
You think so?。
You know, I used to go to a reform seminary,。
and in the seminary, there were chapels every week.。
There were about two chapels every week, morning chapels.。
So we joined the morning chapels,。
and because it's a reform seminary。
and it's on the traditional side,。
and we always use the same hymn book.。
And the hymn book, if you pick up the hymn book。
and you flip the pages, there are only 150 songs.。
There are only 150 songs, right?。
That makes it easier, right?。
If you're leading worship,。
you don't have to go Google some of the songs, right?。
You don't have to go to YouTube。
and listen to some of the songs,。
because there are no new songs.。
There are only 180 songs,。
because they are directly taken out。
from the bowl of salt, right?。
There are 150 songs only.。
So that's the philosophy.。
They only sing 150 songs, right?。
You agree with that kind of practice?。
Yes, no?。
Well, I don't think the Bible really dictates us。
exactly what kind of songs that we sing, right?。
The songs that we use are contemporary songs, right?。
They are not applicable,。
or they are not being used in other culture,。
in other setting.。
Did I tell you last year I tried to learn some Hebrew songs?。
I did, right?。
Yeah.。
Did I tell you last week?。
I'm losing my memory, yeah.。
Right, and my children don't like Hebrew songs, right?。
The Hebrew songs are pretty much minor songs, right?。
But they're beautiful, right?。
But to some of the contemporary audience,。
don't speak to them, right?。
So we use some of the songs that are contemporary to us.。
So we use those songs,。
and they are new songs compared to the bowl of psalms.。
However, they are totally applicable.。
It's biblical to use new songs,。
because the psalms, the Bible tells us。
whenever God does something new,。
we have to sing new song, right?。
So people will compose new songs to be used in worship,。
right?。
We have a major in music composition.。
They're using her gifts, using our gifts,。
to compose entirely brand new songs for worshiping God.。
So I don't think God will dictate。
what kind of songs we have to use.。
No.。
However, most of the songs that we use in corporate worships。
are what I call upward songs.。
We sing those songs directly to God,。
directly to the Lord,。
and those are legitimate songs or poems that we can use,。
or lyrics singing directly to God.。
Most of the songs that we use in worship are like that.。
However, I don't think the Bible has ever dictated us。
what kind of songs or which songs that we use.。
As you step into this church,。
you find that our setting is a little bit different.。
I used to go to traditional churches.。
This is not quite traditional setting for church buildings.。
I wanna give you a quiz.。
You know what is this?。
You know what this is?。
What kind of furniture item is this?。
Anyone?。
They are actually hymnal or hymn book holder.。
You know, if you walk into a traditional church setting,。
you find those hymnal holder。
at the back of the church pillars, right?。
They are used for not your books.。
You know, you don't bring your books and put it there.。
It is for public worship.。
So they use a particular hymnal, particular book of hymns.。
And I used to go to a traditional Baptist church。
in California, and when I was younger,。
I always joined the worship service。
and the Wednesday evening prayer meeting.。
And what we do is we gather together,。
and the host or the worship leader。
will tell us the number of the hymn.。
So let's turn to our hymnal, 126.。
And then we will turn to the hymn, hymn book, 126,。
and we sing together.。
And all the songs that we use are all compiled。
in that book, right?。
But culture has changed, right?。
And we need to consider the local culture。
and language and tradition.。
And there were flexibility,。
how we use or what songs that we use。
in corporate worship.。
However, the main thing is there,。
the focus is to sing songs to God,。
it's to praise him with songs and poems.。
And that's one of the aspects of public worship.。
The second aspect is prayer.。
Now, this is a no-brainer, right?。
Because in scripture, the people of God。
get together to worship.。
There are many different prayers,。
or many types of prayers.。
There are praises, there are petition,。
there are supplications, there are laments,。
there are also confessions of sin,。
expressions of repentance, expressions of thanksgiving.。
All this wide variety of prayers are found in the Bible,。
and they are legitimately being used in corporate worship.。
So sometimes when we pray together,。
or pray silently, or pray together,。
we confess our sin, and we ask God for his forgiveness.。
Sometimes we give thanks to God.。
We give thanks to God because God answered our prayer,。
and God has been good to us.。
And sometimes we do petitions, right?。
We pray for our church, we pray for our community.。
And this is one of the reminders that we have,。
is we summarize what worship is all about in the Bible,。
that we need to prepare ourselves, right?。
We come before God in the presence of God,。
we want to worship, we need to prepare ourselves,。
we learn the songs, and we prepare our heart for prayers.。
Did you do that today?。
You walk into this hall, this auditorium,。
you prepare yourself to be prayerful.。
You pray to God, you speak to God, right?。
Either you have thanksgiving,。
or you have some confessions to make,。
or some praises you want to sing, right?。
We need to prepare ourselves, right?。
Not only you prepare your body,。
but you prepare your spirit。
so that you can focus on worshiping God.。
Speaking of prepare on body,。
I have not been sleeping so well in the last two weeks.。
Especially about three weeks ago,。
I tried one of those over-the-counter sleeping pills,。
because I have trouble sleeping.。
So I tried some new sleeping aids three weeks ago.。
I took one on Tuesday, and of course I slept,。
but I collapsed, I actually collapsed.。
And then I woke up Wednesday morning,。
I feel so bad, feel so bad.。
I felt like I never slept last night, the night before.。
And then it lingered for a few days, actually.。
I've been just sleeping all day, sleepy all day, right?。
If you tell me, you ask me,。
if I took the new sleeping pill,。
like Saturday night, it would not be wise, right?。
Because I want to prepare my body。
so that I can worship God.。
So I ditched those new sleeping pill,。
and I go back to my, the old ones, the prescribed one.。
And it helps me to rest,。
help me to prepare our physical body to worship God.。
And this sort of thing reminds us。
we need to prepare ourselves to worship.。
We cannot just bump into a worship service,。
and then, okay, all right, we're worshiping.。
Right, God wants us to prepare ourselves,。
our spirit, our mind, and our body to worship Him.。
That's how we become better worshipers, right?。
Number three is confession of faith.。
Now, this sort of things sometimes we do。
in corporate worship.。
And what does it mean, confession of faith, or creed?。
It's from Latin, credo.。
It means I believe.。
You know, throughout the entire church history。
of the last 2,000 years,。
there are generations of theologians and believers,。
they summarize the basic doctrines。
of the Bible.。
As they summarize it, they will write some of the creeds.。
Now, one of those creeds that we use in the past。
is called the Apostles' Creed, right?。
I actually preach about it。
in a sermon series on Apostles' Creed.。
And Apostles' Creed has been around。
for more than 1,000 years.。
And it's a very, very valuable and ancient summary。
of Christian faith.。
And it summarizes our basic doctrines in 12 articles.。
And we recite the Apostles' Creed。
to remind us what we believe, what we stand on.。
And that is called the creed or confession of faith.。
Actually, those creeds we can find from the Bible.。
If you pay attention to some of the scripture。
or some of the passages in the Bible,。
they are actually being incorporated。
into the New Testament writing,。
into the New Testament Bible.。
For example, the book of Matthew, Matthew 6.。
The Lord's Prayer, right?。
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.。
Be thy name.。
Thy kingdom come, thy will be done。
on earth as it is in heaven.。
Give us today our daily bread.。
Forgive us our debts.。
And we also have given our debtors.。
And lead us not into temptation,。
but deliver us from the evil one.。
For thine is the kingdom, the power,。
and the glory forever, amen.。
As I read this, I used King James words。
because that's how I grew up.。
I recite this Lord's Prayer from time to time。
in worship service, right?。
This is the confession of faith.。
Now, how do we know?。
You know the last line I highlight here?。
If you read the details of the English Bible, for example,。
you find a footnote there,。
and the footnote tells you the early,。
early Christian manuscript of Matthew 6。
does not have the sentence highlighted.。
Only the later manuscript contains the highlight,。
a second part of verse 13.。
Now, you know, there are many manuscripts of New Testament,。
and what the scholar's doing is trying to summarize。
what the original text actually is.。
So if you go to the earlier or the best manuscript,。
it doesn't have the yellow highlight verse.。
It stops at the evil one.。
Deliver us from the evil one, and then it stops.。
And that's the Lord's Prayer.。
That's the original Lord's Prayer.。
That's how Jesus taught His disciples to pray, right?。
It's a series of petition.。
Leads us not into temptation, forgive us,。
and deliver us from the evil one.。
The last line is being added in the early Christian church,。
and that's why those who copy the Bible。
from generation to generation, the Christian scribes,。
they incorporate this last verse,。
this last second part of verse 13 into the Lord's Prayer.。
And why?。
Because the early churches, when they met in house churches,。
they add this phrase at the end of the Lord's Prayer.。
And this is how they use it,。
use the Lord's Prayer in their worship service.。
So end with some sort of doxology, some sort of praise.。
Yours is the kingdom and the power。
and the glory forever, right?。
So as one of the example, you find that, you know,。
this kind of confession of faith using the Lord's Prayer,。
it's a legitimate use of scripture,。
and it happens to be used in worship service.。
That's why sometimes we do that too, right?。
A brother just remind me,。
why don't we do something like that in our worship service?。
You know, recite some of the scriptures,。
like the Lord's Prayer, and memorize it, right?。
Because when we memorize the Word of God,。
the Word of God will take effect in our own life, right?。
That's a great idea, and we will continue to do that, right?。
So there's confession of faith.。
There's also another aspect called vows,。
or some sort of response or a commitment。
that we make before God in worship.。
In the Old Testament and New Testament,。
we find many, many different vows or promises,。
commitments that people make to God。
to fulfill those promises.。
Don't you experience that?。
Sometimes you're in your spiritual walk with God.。
You pray for a certain thing,。
and then God answer your prayer,。
or God open a way for you, right?。
And you made some sort of promise to God.。
You pray a certain thing in front of God,。
and you say, "God, if you answer me,。
"if you do this for me, for your glory,。
"then I will fulfill my vow, right?。
"I will give you thanks.。
"I will give you offering," or something like that, right?。
I have done so many times in my Christian walk, right?。
God provide me, you know?。
If you answer my prayer, I will recommit myself to you,。
and that is what vow means.。
That is what commitment means.。
I remember years, years ago, I was in seminary,。
and I finished the first two terms,。
and then I ran out of money.。
I just didn't have money to pay for tuition,。
so I prayed.。
Right at that moment, I was in a really, really big struggle。
because I probably have to quit,。
have to find a job, right?。
And to save up more money so that I can pay for tuition.。
So I prayed, I prayed.。
So as I prayed, and I went to prayer meeting,。
and we prayed together.。
Now I remember the following week,。
I went to a prayer meeting.。
I went to a worship service, and I came home,。
and I find a white envelope in my mailbox.。
I was kind of curious, okay, who put it there, right?。
So I grabbed the envelope, and I went to my bedroom,。
and I opened the envelope, and there was a check,。
and that check has the amount just enough。
for me to pay for the next term, right?。
At that moment, I fell on my knees.。
I said, "God, thank you.。
"Thank you for answering my prayer.。
"Thank you for accepting me because I was of little faith,。
"right, and God, you are the great provider,。
"and you are so faithful to me," right?。
So I fell on my knees, and I prayed, I vowed.。
You know, "If God, you are so faithful,。
"help me in my faithlessness, right?。
"Help me with my lack of trust.。
"Help me to trust in you."。
So there we go, I fulfilled my vow, right?。
In my years of ministry, there were up times,。
there were many down times.。
There are mountain tops, a few mountain tops.。
There are many valleys, but I remember this experience.。
I made a vow to God that God is faithful,。
and I need to continue to trust in him, right?。
Whether the times is good or the time is difficult.。
That should be part of our journey as well, right?。
God grant me this prayer.。
I will make a vow to you, right?。
I will recommit myself, and that's part of our worship too.。
And in the Old Testament, there was a story about Hannah,。
right, the woman who was barren.。
She didn't have any child, and she was suffering nobility.。
She was being locked down upon.。
And Hannah prayed to God in the tabernacle,。
and prayed that God grant me a child, right?。
And lo and behold, God grant her a child, Samuel.。
And the next year, she went back to the temple,。
the tabernacle, with her husband, Elkina,。
and his family, went on their annual trip。
to offer worship sacrifice to the Lord, and keep his vow.。
And there you go, vow right there.。
The vow actually is Hannah's own vow.。
So Hannah prayed to God, grant me a child.。
If you really grant me a child, I will offer this child。
for your service, for the Lord's ministry.。
And she did that.。
She brought Samuel, the boy, to the temple, or tabernacle,。
and offered Samuel as a minister to God.。
So vows and promises is part of our worship service.。
Now, we will continue this list next week.。
Preaching and teaching and sacraments,。
and we will explain what sacraments are,。
and then offerings and fellowship.。
Now, I want to close this sermon by saying,。
all of these aspects and all of these elements。
are part of legitimate worship.。
And God is pleased when His people gather。
in His presence to worship Him, right?。
Remember this, worship is about God, it's all about God.。
And worship in the Bible has two dimensions.。
The first dimension is a vertical dimension.。
We worship and we respond to what Jesus has done。
in our own lives.。
He save us for the purpose of worshiping Him.。
And that's a vertical dimension.。
And the other dimension is horizontal dimension.。
Worship is to edify, is to build up others in the community.。
Worship is not for me to have fun.。
I come here, I am present here,。
so that I can practice community.。
I can build up the body of Christ.。
I can have fellowship and share life with other people.。
And our worship can be a witness to the world outside.。
Let's remember that, right?。
We're gonna close in prayer.。
And let's pray before God.。
How can we become a better worshiper?。
All right, to glorify Him.。
Let's all pray.。
I'll give you some seconds and you can pray to God。
in silence.。
If God has led you to repent,。
ask for forgiveness.。
No, God's grace is always sufficient.。
If God is calling you to recommit,。
do so, because God is good, worthy of our worship.。
(gentle piano music)。
(gentle piano music)。
Father, thank you for being our loving God.。
Thank you for loving us so much.。
And call us into your presence,。
so that we can be your people.。
So we pray that you will help us。
to become better worshipers,。
to honor you and to glorify you.。
Forgive our shortcomings.。
Sometimes we don't prepare.。
If we don't prepare our hearts and our body。
to serve you, to worship you,。
may you forgive us。
and help us to put you as our life's pyrode.。
To worship you is to bring you glory.。
Ask your people, ask your church,。
help us as a community to worship you,。
to honor you in Christ's name we pray.。
Well, God bless, and next week we're going to learn。
how to be better worshipers, right?。
So join us next week.。
God bless.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
