Several years ago, a suicide occurred among a population that we had resettled through World Relief.。
We were determined to unravel what happened, so what did happen?。
A senior man, greatly respected in the community, took his own life.。
We gathered the grieving community together to see how we could help, and a young man said,。
"If this man's death surprises you, then you must not know us very well."。
Pretty damning statement to hear from someone, really, who has just gone through such pain.。
So we asked him what we didn't know, and he went on to really say that suicide was very common for their people and why.。
The source of their sad situation was a battle of peoples.。
Their people alongside another people, until they became too numerous and they were perceived as a threat.。
So they were deported and they were stripped of their citizenship.。
They became a stateless people, having no place to call home, and this led them to have one of the highest suicide rates of any people.。
Let's just say they had lost hope.。
Today we live in a world that seems to lack hope.。
People are at odds with one another, nations continue to war with other nations, encroaching on their rights and freedoms.。
When added to this, a pandemic has ravished our world.。
I can see why there is such fatalism in our world today.。
Like the quandary of the stateless people that I mentioned earlier, is there any place that we can turn to in order to really find hope?。
David wrote the first two chapters of the book of Psalms as a prelude and a framework for the book to help us find direction in life.。
Psalms are really songs that God's people wrote for us to sing, whether an anthem or a dirge,。
to pray back to God what's happening around us to help us sort out things in our life.。
Interestingly, with every trial and temptation that Jesus faced,。
he confronted them with the Bible and the Psalms in particular with his crucifixion.。
The Psalms are a complete musical repertoire, if you will, of themes and echoes, poetry and rhythms, parallels and contrasts,。
all to help us personally deal with life and also as a people to deal with life.。
The main point of this second Psalm is this, we're all in, but really what side are we on?。
You see, beyond what we see physically, there is a spiritual war that rages against us behind the scenes,。
evil perpetrated by earthly leaders of countries and industries that cause harm to people who are themselves mere footmen,。
slaves, understudies for spiritual powers and principalities that are in the unseen world.。
So who are these warring parties?。
Well, the Bible says that every person who heeds God's instructions is on his side and on the side of his anointed in the scripture.。
In this worldwide struggle that we're in, they are the blessed, and really they've been given access to true happiness.。
But to fully appreciate their blessed state, they must trust in God's anointed and find delight in his instructions.。
Conversely, there are those who are perishing, those who live wickedly and rebel against the Lord,。
muddling through life in daily skirmishes for control of what's here and there.。
Psalm chapter 2 assures us of the outcome of this battle, though, and shows us how to fight it successfully.。
We need to understand this cosmic battle in order to better find our way forward here on earth.。
At their core, both parties are really defined by their perspectives and the authorities that are in their life.。
At the beginning of this chapter, we really see the perishing only having a horizontal perspective on life.。
The nations, or pantata ethne, is the term there, really means the peoples.。
The peoples are in rebellion. And who are they in rebellion against?。
Ultimately, God, though they don't fully recognize him or acknowledge him,。
and their rebellion causes them anger, a sense of futility, and frustration in life.。
They are plodding along, not seeing little to any fruit from their labors,。
and they want to see themselves as masters of their own destiny, but they are stuck in the quagmire of this world.。
The blessed, on the other hand, bring a vertical perspective to life.。
Pictured here in this psalm, God is in heaven. He's in heaven laughing, he's scorning,。
and he's rebuking the rebellion that he sees, because he knows who is truly in charge.。
He is placed on the supreme throne of this earth, his anointed one. And who is he?。
Well, in verses 7 and 8, we see that Jesus is that king, and we, the church, are his bride,。
having access to that power and that authority. Jesus proclaims the message that God gave him of good news.。
He is indeed God's son, and as it says there, he's equal to him.。
And God gives him authority over all of the nations and the peoples of this earth.。
God wants to give the whole earth to him as his possession,。
but the Lord also wants to give the nations to his bride, the church.。
At the end of time, the prophecy of Revelation chapter 2 quotes this psalm, saying,。
"At the end of time, to all who are victorious, who obey me, obey the Lord to the end,。
to them I will give authority over all nations, and they will rule the nations with an iron rod。
and smash them like clay pots."。
The critical tool to receive this blessing, though, is found at the beginning of verse 8.。
He says, "Only ask." Prayer is key.。
We must ask God for all that we need to see victories in life, whether they be big or small.。
Because the Bible says God makes all things work together for good,。
to those who love him and are called according to his purposes.。
So how should we respond in light of this incredible knowledge that we see here in Psalm chapter 2,。
and what should we lead others to do to act on it?。
He really speaks of four things here.。
He talks about us acting wisely in the days that we're in, to serve him reverently,。
to rejoice with trembling, and to submit to God's Son in all things.。
And why is this so? Because our actions are consequential.。
Rebellion brings about God's anger and destruction,。
and that without notice, no matter who you are or what you're doing.。
But there is joy, and there's peace for those who take their refuge in the Lord.。
They find everlasting life, 24/7 protection, and abundance instead of scarcity.。
So back to the stateless people story that I mentioned at the beginning of my time with you.。
We said that they had lost hope, and a young man from the community provided a glimmer of hope in our meeting with them.。
He mentioned how hopeful all the people were who had helped them as they were resettled here,。
and they all happened to be Christians.。
He wondered if they might help him find hope and help his people find hope.。
So what did we do?。
We extended a Macedonian call for help, and we found a person of peace who spoke their language。
and was willing to offer this same hope in God's anointed,。
like those who had helped them before when they were first arriving.。
They learned that hope is found in God and his appointed ruler, the true ruler of the world,。
and that true ruler of the world is King Jesus.。
This understanding of Jesus led these stateless people to form churches in their homes。
and eventually to launch public worship here in the Chicagoland area.。
With their first baptisms just a couple of years back,。
a first generation of Christians was born among that population。
when very few, if any, in their country had experienced belief in Christ in the past.。
And among those who were first baptized included an 82-year-old witch doctor。
who committed his life to Christ.。
Today, there is an active movement of Christian community among this population,。
touching now three generations in a very short period of time.。
I received this note recently from one of our youth workers working with their kids.。
She said this, "Hey, not sure if you're all going to see this story,。
but I wanted to share it with you, Keith.。
I just wanted to share a Little Friday encouragement.。
This one is about the children from this community, and they are now high school kids.。
It touches my soul. I hope it will touch yours.。
I had a Nepali woman tell me this week that in the last week, the last year or two,。
that she and her two boys had decided on the Jesus.。
It used to be the Hindu, and now it was the Jesus.。
She said, "Since my boys listened to the Jesus, they no fight no more.。
They no argue. They talk. They listen. They help.。
I asked them why they now act so good.。
They tell me, 'Mom, this Jesus is very, very good.。
He no like the fighting. He only likes the helping.'。
The Jesus is now spreading among the youth in this community in a very big way.。
They band together, worship together, sing and pray,。
and when they're done, they help each other with their homework.。
There's so many things that COVID has torn apart in our communities, including among this one,。
but this is something this year that has really served to make things better.。
For you see, they, their parents, and their grandparents had gained a vertical perspective on life,。
and it made all the difference for them in finding hope.。
Do you know Christ's command to make disciples really flows from this psalm in chapter 2?。
And fulfilling the great commission to go and make disciples of all nations。
honors God's promise to Abraham to bless all the nations on earth through him.。
How about you?。
Are you living in the horizontal spaces, fretting about life, causing you anger,。
maybe a sense of futility or despair?。
Maybe you're even plotting with others, hoping for a better days ahead.。
Are you ready to look up instead of looking around you?。
God is large and he's in charge, and he's given his son to rule so that we might come to trust him.。
He wants us to go to a place of peace and his shalom, where all things are right under his rulership.。
In his presence is fullness of joy, and all who take refuge in him will see beyond what is around them to what is over them.。
The Bible says a great cloud of witnesses went before us,。
and we also find in Scripture a mighty army of angels surrounds us at God's beckoning call.。
I invite you to gain a new perspective on life today and find God's peace for your weary souls.。
So let me just ask you a couple of questions here as we wrap up.。
Are you ready to let go and let God fight your battles for you?。
Are you willing to live life with victory and hope in his kingdom?。
Would you raise your white flag now and surrender your life to him,。
confessing your need for Jesus to reign in your life?。
These, I believe, help us to find hope in these days.。
Please look up instead of just looking with what's around you.。
God has so much more for you if you'll only look up.。
Let me pray with you.。
Father in heaven, thank you so much for these that are gathered here today and these that are watching.。
I pray, Lord God, that your words would speak with power here.。
Thank you, God, for the dozens of intercessors that I know are praying right now for what I'm sharing here today.。
I pray, God, that you would help those who hear it to see what you are saying to them。
and to take action to surrender and to look to you。
and not to fret about what they see happening with the nations around them.。
Help them to see what's above and to see what's beyond this world。
and to trust in it, to trust in its ruler, the true ruler that God has put over all things, King Jesus.。
And we pray this now in the name of Jesus. Amen.。
[Music]。
