Today, we're going to go through our preaching series,。
our sermon series, and if you have your Bible,。
please turn to the last book of the Bible,。
the book of Revelation, all right?。
Book of Revelation.。
We are in this series called,。
"What Christ Thinks of the Church."。
What does Jesus think of our church?。
You know, just imagine, if Jesus is gonna write us an email,。
if he's going to text us,。
if he's gonna write a letter to us,。
and to each and every one of us,。
what will the letter be saying?。
You know, imagine, you know,。
if Jesus write a letter to all of us, to our church,。
what does he think of our church?。
So that is the whole idea of this sermon series。
on the seven letters to the seven churches。
in the first century,。
and we caught it in the book of Revelation.。
And as I said before, this seven letters。
were sent to seven churches。
located in today's Western Turkey, right?。
Did I mention to you I wanna organize a New Testament tour。
to Turkey and Greece?。
Did I, did I say that?。
Yeah, I did, right?。
I did.。
Last week, I did, yeah.。
And, you know, because of the war there,。
because of the instability there,。
we could not go this year.。
But I usually go to the Middle East once a year。
to lead some church group and to visit different sites.。
Hopefully, next year, we're gonna have a New Testament tour。
for the first step of Paul,。
and we're gonna visit Turkey and Greece.。
And anyways, this seven churches。
in the book of Revelation, the first few chapters,。
we caught a seven letters written by Jesus,。
the head of the church, to all the churches,。
to seven churches.。
And we went through the letter to,。
Ephesus, and then Smyrna.。
And today, we are at the third city.。
You follow that line,。
possibly a postal delivery route of the day.。
And the seven churches are written to these seven cities。
where there were whole churches in there.。
And today, we are in the third city, Pergamon, Pergamon.。
Now, back in the first century,。
Pergamon was a thriving city.。
And listen to this.。
According to different estimation,。
Pergamon had a population of 150,000 people.。
And that considered a big city in the first century.。
It's a huge city, huge population.。
150,000, it's a thriving city.。
And today, when we go there,。
you see a Roman theater on the left,。
and the Roman theater can seat more than 10,000 audience.。
And then on the right, you can see the aerial picture.。
And then down there, you see the modern city of Pergamon.。
And this letter, Jesus is writing to the church in Pergamon.。
Let's take a look.。
212, 212 of Revelation.。
"To the angel of the church in Pergamon write,。
"these are the words of him who has a sharp double-edged sword."。
Now, as I said, in all three, all seven letters,。
Jesus introduced himself in a special way。
that is relevant to the city, to the Christians,。
to the church in that particular city.。
And writing to the church,。
writing to the Christians in Pergamon,。
Jesus introduced himself as having。
the sharp double-edged sword.。
Now, this kind of sword,。
archeologists have dug up so many of them in Roman sites。
in the Mediterranean world in the first century.。
It is a well-known weapon of the Roman Empire.。
It is symbol of political might, military might.。
And politics in today and back in the first century。
was a highly debated topic, right?。
Because politic is the greatest power on earth, right?。
The country, whoever is the boss in the Roman Empire.。
And it was a highly debated topic,。
and everyone is so concerned about it.。
Just like today, we are very concerned。
about the upcoming presidential election.。
It's a very important subject,。
and politics is usually a very relevant subject。
in the first century.。
And the Roman emperor and governors of the province,。
including the governor of the city of Pergamon,。
often carry this kind of double-edged sword, you know?。
This kind of double-edged sword.。
It's about probably more than 18 inch long.。
It's a double-edged sword to symbolize their power.。
They have the power to execute the Roman authorities.。
They have power to punish criminals。
and anyone against the order of the empire.。
You remember in the Gospel of John。
when Jesus was standing on trial before Pilate,。
the Roman governor in Palestine, in Israel.。
And you remember in the Gospel of John。
recorded the conversation between Jesus and Pilate.。
This is what they talk about.。
John 19, 10.。
Now, Pilate, the governor,。
representing the power of the Roman empire,。
he said to Jesus, "Don't you realize I have power。
"either to free you or to crucify you?"。
And then Jesus said, and that's amazing what he said.。
He said to Pilate, "You will have no power over me。
"if it were not given to you from above."。
Right?。
It's a subversive challenge to the Roman authority.。
You have power to crucify me and to penalize me。
because there is a power above you.。
There's a bigger power.。
There's a greatest power above you who is God himself.。
So Jesus is essentially saying, "Sorry, Pilate.。
"I know you're gonna have the power。
"to crucify me or to free me,。
"but I and my God have the power above you."。
Right?。
And essentially, that's what Jesus is saying。
in this letter to Pogomon.。
Jesus said, "I am the only one who has the double-edged sword.。
"I have the political power, the power above."。
In chapter one, we see that Jesus holds the seven stars.。
Right?。
Just like the Roman emperor would hold seven stars。
in his hand.。
Right?。
In chapter one, we also see that Jesus,。
out of his mouth came a sharp, double-edged sword.。
And what does it mean?。
It means Jesus has a weapon,。
but this is not a physical weapon.。
This is not guns and tanks.。
It is the word of truth, the word of the gospel,。
and the gospel can conquer the Roman power.。
The gospel can conquer death and Satan and evil.。
That's essentially what Jesus is saying.。
Right?。
Because Jesus rose from the dead.。
He conquered death, the greatest power of all.。
Right?。
In fact, the New Testament reminds us。
death is the final enemy for each and every one of us.。
You will die.。
I will die.。
Death is the final enemy,。
but Jesus has conquered this final enemy.。
And Jesus is saying he has all the power.。
He has the power from above.。
So the Bible is proclaiming that,。
yeah, of course we need to concern about the earthly politics。
but we are not isolating ourselves, of course.。
Right?。
We need to concern about what is happening in the world,。
but we must be occupied most of all。
in our conversation, in our thoughts, in our actions,。
by the real power, the highest power, the real king.。
Jesus himself, right?。
He has the double-edged sword,。
not the Roman guys, right?。
Not the United States president.。
Jesus has the real double-edged sword.。
And we must be concerned about that power,。
concerned about the gospel,。
concerned about preaching the word of truth,。
concerned about witnessing the name of Jesus, right?。
That is what we must occupy ourselves most, right?。
Let me remind you as the election coming up, right?。
What is occupying our time?。
What is occupying our thoughts most of the time?。
It should be, the Bible says, Jesus himself, right?。
The church, his people, his authority, his kingdom.。
Just like the Lord's prayer, "Thy kingdom come."。
On earth as it is in heaven.。
We're gonna bring God's kingdom on earth, to the earth,。
to our circle of inference, to help people see Jesus.。
That should occupy most of our time, most of our energy.。
So Jesus introduced himself, he has the highest power.。
He has the sharp double-edged sword.。
And he continues to talk to the church in Pergamon.。
He said, "I know," remember this formula。
in every single letter?。
He said, "I know your situation.。
"I know everything about you."。
He said, "I know where you live, where Satan has his thorn.。
"Yet you remain true to my name.。
"You did not renounce your faith in me,。
"even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness,。
"who was put to death in your city, where Satan lives."。
How many times Satan is repeated here?。
Two times, right?。
Yeah, two times.。
So looking at Pergamon, this thriving city,。
of course, he says, "I know where you live," right?。
Your physical address, right?。
You can punch it in, in your Google Earth,。
Google Earth or Google Map, right?。
You can go there, where you live, of course, is Pergamon.。
It's the ancient city.。
That's the physical location, just like Chicago, right?。
I know where you live, Jesus says.。
But Jesus is talking about not your physical location,。
it's just spiritual location.。
Spiritually, Pergamon was the throne of Satan,。
the throne of the evil.。
Now we have archeology uncover some of the truth。
about the city for us.。
Pergamon, in the last hundred some years,。
the Germans were there to dig up some of the things。
from the city, Pergamon.。
And Pergamon, we know, had a large altar,。
or temple, built for Zeus.。
And this huge altar, you can see it now。
in Pergamon Museum in Berlin, Germany.。
And because when the Germans went to today's Turkey,。
they dig up some of the stones,。
some of the stones of the altar and the temple,。
and they move it piece by piece back to Berlin。
and put it in the museum.。
And this is a huge pagan altar.。
This huge pagan temple, hundred some feet long。
and hundred some feet wide and 40 feet plus deep.。
It's a huge altar.。
And what we found in Pergamon was this huge altar.。
And you can see it in Germany.。
And the story goes, as the German move the entire altar。
stone by stone to Berlin, and they reassemble it together。
in their own museum.。
And then it was 1930s, and the Pergamon Museum in Berlin。
was open to the public.。
And a few years later, the German Nazi party,。
they had some rallies, some political gatherings,。
and they are trying to design and build。
some of the huge plazas for the political rally.。
And in one of those, the Nazi party commissioned。
an architect to design a special plaza, Sibel and Phil.。
And in that plaza, the architect, the chief architect,。
got the inspiration from Pergamon altar.。
From this altar, he built that low right,。
Sibel and Phil, in 1930s.。
And they turned to Pergamon altar for inspiration.。
And of course, as you know, in the following years,。
Hitler descended down the steps.。
Now this altar is what the Bible is talking about.。
This altar at Pergamon is believed to be。
the throne of Satan, the seat of Satan.。
And it's very interesting to think about this verse,。
verse two, 13 and 14.。
Jesus is saying to the church in Pergamon,。
"Don't just look at the surface.。
"You need to look behind your city.。
"And you look behind the city, you know the power of Satan。
"is working behind, is working there.。
"There's a spiritual darkness,。
"dark forces behind what you see."。
You know, from your sight, you can see a gigantic building.。
You can see a big, huge altar and temple.。
But behind, Jesus said,。
is the evil, destructive force of Satan, right?。
And we need to develop that kind of spiritual insight,。
that spiritual perspective.。
When we see something from the outside,。
we have to look behind the scene.。
Just like what Jesus did here.。
Chicago is a beautiful city, isn't it?。
Right?。
It's a beautiful city.。
Especially weather is good, all right?。
It's very, very beautiful.。
It's just a magnificent building.。
Magnificent buildings and magnificent city.。
But you need to look behind.。
Chicago is known to be one of the toughest places。
for churches.。
Do you know that?。
You know, not too far away from us, in our network,。
one of the Baptist churches was trying to fight。
for zoning permit to build a church.。
They tried to fight legal battles,。
not to be kicked out from their rental place.。
You know, the government is not friendly。
or even hostile to the gospel.。
Yes, this is a beautiful city,。
but you look behind the scene,。
you know there's something else working, right?。
The power of Satan.。
And the city needs the gospel.。
The city needs you to go in there,。
to bear the name of Jesus, to witness to other people。
about the wonderful name of our Lord, right?。
Same thing for Pergamon.。
Now, this letter says there was one martyr。
called Antipas, right?。
Antipas.。
And he's being described as my faithful witness.。
Now, we don't know much about Antipas here.。
Perhaps he was a leader in the church in Pergamon,。
and he was a martyr not too long ago,。
before this letter was written.。
Now, at the time of revelation, it was the first century,。
the late first century, which is AD 90s.。
And we know from other sources that some Christians,。
and in fact, quite a few Christian leaders。
have been martyred in the first century.。
Can you name some of them?。
Stephen is one of them, right?。
The bold ax, chapter seven.。
He was stoned to death.。
James, who wrote the epistle of James.。
Peter, who was martyred in the 60s.。
Paul as well, he was martyred in Rome in the 60s.。
And now when revelation was written,。
it was late first century, AD 90s.。
Antipas was one of them.。
And that implies he was a faithful witness.。
That implies that he was interrogated by Roman authorities,。
and he was ordered to be executed。
when he refused to curse Christ, curse Jesus,。
and worship the Roman emperor.。
When Antipas gave his testimony in the court,。
and he was being asked to reject Jesus,。
and to renounce his faith, and to curse Christ publicly.。
Antipas, that's for sure, he refused to do that,。
because he only worshiped Jesus himself.。
Now, in the midst of intense persecution,。
the small church in Pokémon needs a lot of encouragement.。
And Jesus said, "I know you guys.。
"I know what is going on with you.。
"I know you're suffering for the faith."。
'Cause that I know, that two words in English,。
that I know offers encouragement and comfort。
to those who are suffering for the faith.。
Jesus said, "I'm gonna protect you.。
"I know your situation."。
Now, Jesus never promised us to follow him,。
there will be no suffering.。
But he promised us to save us through suffering, right?。
So he said, "I know your suffering.。
"I know what you're going through, right?。
"I'm not sure what you're going through right now, right?。
"Possibly in the past few weeks, or past few months,。
"you have been going through some suffering.。
"But remember this."。
Jesus said, "I know, I understand, I'm with you.。
"I know your suffering."。
He spoke to, he spoke the same word to。
the Christians in Pergamon, at the throne of Satan, right?。
They were under attack.。
And Jesus today is speaking to you the same thing.。
I know what you are going through.。
Let's continue, verse 14.。
"Nevertheless," Jesus said, "I have a few things。
"against you guys, the church in Pergamon.。
"You have people who hold to the teaching of Balaam,。
"who taught Balak to entice the Israelites to sin。
"by eating food, sacrifice to idols,。
"and by committing sexual immorality."。
Verse 15, "Likewise, you also have those。
"who hold to the teaching of Nicolaitans."。
Now, what is going on here?。
It's using some Old Testament example。
to describe what is going on in,。
among some of the Christians in Pergamon church.。
He said, "First of all, some of the Christians there。
"held to the teaching of Balaam."。
Balaam is an Old Testament guy,。
and he's a very famous guy.。
And Balaam, as you remember from the book of Numbers,。
when the Israelites was trying to pass through。
the land of Moab, and they come in closer。
to the promised land, land of Canaan.。
And as they pass through the land of,。
outskirt of the land of Moab,。
the king of Moab called Balak, right, Balak.。
And he hire a prophet, a false prophet named Balaam。
to curse Israel, to curse Israel,。
to not to blots them, but to curse them。
to bring calamities over the Israelites。
as they pass through the land of Moab.。
But God protected the Israelites, right?。
And he turned curses into blessings.。
Now, what is going on in the Christians,。
some of the Christians in Pergamon was that。
they hold to the cultic teaching of Balaam.。
Now, I think what it means is that。
some of the Christians there。
were preaching for financial gain.。
Now, Balaam was hired, remember?。
He was hired for money, and he tried to curse Israel.。
And that is the figure of Balaam in the Old Testament。
and in the Jewish tradition, in the biblical tradition.。
Balaam is a false prophet, and he does God's ministry,。
or speaking the word of God, for money, right?。
To gain money, for material gain.。
And I'm sure this phrase here, or this description here,。
to describing some of the Christians。
who was trying to distort the gospel。
for their personal gain, just like what Balaam did.。
And second thing he has against the church in Pergamon。
was that they were eating food sacrificed to idols。
and commit spiritual, sexual immorality.。
I think it's likely at that time。
that Christians joined some of the local pagan associations,。
local pagan religious temple associations。
for financial benefits, right?。
Because if you join them, right, join the club,。
then you will have a better business。
and better job opportunities for financial gain, right?。
But in joining some of the pagan anti-Christian associations,。
they had to renounce their faith,。
or they have to renounce their faith for a moment, right?。
And they come back to church and they praise Jesus。
and say Christ is the Lord.。
But Monday to Saturday,。
they're worshipping the false gods, right?。
I think that's what happening here.。
It is turning Christian faith into making money.。
Turning Christian faith for our own benefit, right?。
Sexual immorality, right?。
For our own sexual satisfaction, right?。
If you think about it,。
this letter was not just written。
to Christians in the ancient world.。
It's also written to us, right?。
Turning our faith into making profit for ourselves, right?。
To satisfy ourselves, right?。
Don't we see that a lot?。
We believe in Christ, but ultimately,。
you know, at the bottom of our heart, we want benefit.。
We want material gains, right?。
We have faith, yeah,。
but we want that faith to be twisted。
so that we have freedom to commit sins, right?。
And that is a crisis of faith, right?。
That's what American culture does to all of us, right?。
It's consumerism, right?。
We go to church just like we go to Walmart, right?。
We go to church just like we go to Whole Foods.。
We like to pick and choose,。
and then ultimately, it's for our own benefit.。
If we do that, if we have that kind of spirit,。
if we have that kind of mentality distorted,。
we're no longer following Jesus, right?。
We are simply, in the name of faith,。
we want to gain some financial benefit, right?。
Some satisfactions for ourselves.。
And that's what Jesus said,。
"I have a few things against you," right?。
Even some of you who hold to the teaching of Balaam。
for financial gain in the name of faith, right?。
"I have this against you."。
He continues to say, "Repent, therefore."。
Repent.。
You gotta turn around, you know?。
You see what faith is all about, what Jesus is all about.。
Otherwise, Jesus said, "I will soon come to you。
"and fight against them with the sword of my mouth.。
"He who has an ear, let him hear。
"what the Spirit says to the churches.。
"To him who overcomes,。
"I will give some of the hidden manna.。
"I will also give him a white stone。
"with a new name written on it,。
"known only to him who receives it."。
Now, this is a stern warning,。
stern warning of twisting the gospel。
into self-seeking religion.。
If you understand faith in this way,。
if faith is simply self-seeking,。
looking for your own benefit,。
that is not biblical faith.。
That is Balaam.。
That is anti-faith, right?。
That is not biblical faith.。
And the judgment of God is severe.。
Jesus said, "I am coming to you," right?。
So you have to repent right now.。
But there's also reward.。
If you repent, if you follow Jesus with your whole heart,。
right, there's also blessing.。
The hidden manna, what is that?。
Manna.。
We caused you the story。
of the Israelites going through the wilderness.。
In the wilderness, they had no food, right?。
They had no water, but God gave them manna, right?。
God gave them manna.。
It symbolizes God's faithful provision.。
God is gonna provide for you, right?。
If you repent, if you follow Jesus wholeheartedly,。
you know that God is going to provide for you, right?。
Now think about it.。
Don't you think at times。
we're not committing ourselves to Jesus。
because we just don't believe that God can provide?。
Sometimes in the bottom of our hearts,。
we just don't think God is so good, right?。
We just don't think God is so faithful, right?。
That's why we have to gain something, right?。
Just like the Israelites in the wilderness did, right?。
They just don't think that God。
will provide double on Friday.。
So before Shabbat, some of those people,。
they get the double of the portion they need, right?。
Because in the bottom of their hearts,。
they just don't believe that God is so good,。
God is so faithful.。
Here Jesus affirms that God is the faithful provider,。
and you have to step out of your comfort zone.。
You have to take a step of faith。
and believe that God will provide.。
He has prepared for you manna,。
spiritual food to satisfy you, right?。
Which is better than other food.。
And he has also promised a name on white stone, right?。
We're talking about archeology because that's my area.。
If you go to the ancient site,。
you always find some big stone, a slab of stone,。
and with the name of Roman emperors。
and the famous people inscribed on them, right?。
Yeah, just like Hollywood, right?。
You walk on the street,。
you have this important names, right?。
To step on, you can step on them.。
And they're permanently inscribed on stone。
and indestructible.。
And what Jesus promised us is that a name on white stone,。
a permanent remembrance of your name,。
a permanent memorial of your name, right?。
And that's a big deal in the ancient Near East.。
That's a big deal in the ancient society.。
My name wants to continue, right?。
That's why I have my son, my grandson,。
because I want to perpetuate my name.。
And Jesus promised you, if you're faithful,。
your name will be inscribed on white stone.。
But here, you must remain faithful.。
And you must remember, God is good.。
God is faithful and we can depend on him, right?。
I want to spend some moment to pray.。
The thing about who God is,。
who God is to you, is he such a faithful God?。
Is he just a good God that you can depend on?。
You can trust him wholeheartedly.。
Let's repent, let us come before him,。
knowing that he is indeed faithful and loving.。
Let's all pray.。
(soft piano music)。
Our loving Father, thank you for your word.。
Thank you for your reminder,。
your evaluation and your commendation。
and even your teaching.。
To correct us.。
So we come before you,。
knowing that you are such a great God of grace.。
Thank you for your redemption.。
Thank you for your gracious provision.。
And the fact that your son, Jesus Christ,。
came to die for our sin。
and rose from the dead for all of us,。
to restore our relationship to you,。
this fact reminds us,。
you are such a good and faithful, gracious God.。
Forgive us for our little faith.。
Forgive us for sometimes in the name of you,。
in the name of faith,。
we are self-seeking.。
So we come before you as you admonish us。
to repent, to change our way, to change our attitude,。
to change our mentality, change our heart, please.。
May your spirit change us,。
help us repent and help us to come before you.。
Just know that, believe that,。
and trust that you are such a faithful and good God.。
Thank you for being our God.。
So I pray for all the brothers and sisters here,。
pray for myself,。
that you'll grant us this heart of purity.。
So wholeheartedly we will follow you,。
wholeheartedly we will obey you。
and help us to be renewed in your grace。
and our lives can be witnessed in this city,。
witnessed to how great you are,。
witnessed to the name of Jesus,。
to help people to be introduced into your presence,。
to help people to see the gospel,。
to help people to know the name of Jesus.。
So send us out and be with us。
for you know everything that we are going through。
and you are dependable。
and we can trust you wholeheartedly.。
Father, in Christ's name we pray.。
Well, thank you again for worshiping with us。
and I wanna send you out with that mission。
to bear witness for the name of Christ。
and may God's peace be with all of you。
and I wanna see you next week.。
You can stay around for some fellowship time,。
enjoy our refreshment。
and I'm sure there's some mooncakes out there, right?。
Yeah, it's out there, all right.。
Thank you, Pam.。
All right, God bless.。
