- Thank you, James.。
Thank you so much for the church members。
who express in their own ways。
to appreciate the pastoral staff.。
I want to tell you something,。
even though I'm a lead pastor,。
as of today, I have probably the best team。
of pastoral workers on my team,。
so I really appreciate their,。
they're always hardworking.。
I don't have to keep track of their time.。
They are always working more than they should,。
so I just want to give a shout out to them。
and really appreciate their hard work.。
Well, today, we are going to take a detour.。
We're not going to talk about Providence。
for maybe two weeks or so.。
I think there are times we need to address。
and think about or reflect upon。
what is going on in the world,。
and we as Christians are being called to be peacemakers。
and to be the bearers of Christ's image in the world,。
so today, we take a short detour。
and think about and reflect upon。
what is going on in Israel-Palestine.。
As you know, Israel is probably。
kind of like my second home, all right?。
Kind of like my second home.。
Actually, I'm planning to go back,。
leading a tour in May next year.。
I hope everything will deescalate,。
at least in the next few weeks or next month or so,。
and so today's sermon is gonna be shorter。
because we have a fire drill.。
However, I wanna switch the topic and switch our gear。
to think about what is going on in this piece of land, Gaza.。
As you can see on the map,。
Gaza Strip is at the lower left corner。
of the long corridor of Israel,。
and you can see right there, there's a yellow line,。
and Gaza Strip is a small piece of land。
on the Mediterranean Sea along the coast。
and in the southern part of Israel.。
Israel-Hamas conflict has captured。
the attention of the world, that's for sure,。
and I'm sure you read many, many news stories。
and many horrible images and videos。
on what is going on and what Hamas has done。
to the Israelis on October 7th。
was just pure horrendous terrorist act,。
especially for the civilians.。
Countless, many, many Israelis were terrorized.。
Some, many of them are kidnapped,。
and it's horrible to just think about。
what had happened to them and what will happen to them.。
And now with a lot of airstrikes。
by the modern state of Israel,。
bombing and ground invasion。
has already taken place in Gaza.。
Thousands of people, including the Palestinians in Gaza,。
their lives are being threatened.。
Now, there's a danger, there's a danger.。
Whenever war breaks out,。
it's particularly in this area,。
and you don't want it to spill out into a regional conflict,。
and there is a possibility of this danger happening。
because in the northern border of Israel。
is the Hezbollah, another terrorist organization。
funded by Iran, and there were different political actors。
coming onto the scene,。
and if this conflict continues to rise,。
it will be a disaster for everyone, everyone,。
not just Israel, but mostly for the Palestinians.。
So we have to think about this topic。
because Israel-Gaza conflict seems far, far away.。
They are eight hours ahead of us.。
With the fallback, it's nine hours away from Chicago,。
but it hit home, even in the United States,。
because 13 days ago, October 16,。
hate crime was committed in Plainfield.。
Plainfield is 40 minutes away from Chicago.。
What happened was a landlord was overwhelmed。
by his fear for Muslims。
in light of what's going on in Gaza, Israel.。
He went into the home of a Palestinian family, a tenant,。
and he went inside and stabbed a six-year-old boy 26 times。
and murdered the boy on scene and wounded his mother.。
It's Islamophobia, right, because what is going on。
and what you read on the news stories and all that.。
And October 21, October 21,。
the president is a lady rabbi。
of a Jewish synagogue in Detroit.。
She was found fatally stabbed outside her home.。
Now, whether this was a hate crime, we don't know yet,。
but this tragic story is definitely the tip。
of the iceberg of antisemitism.。
It is on the rise.。
With my years of listening to stories。
from both sides, Israel and Palestine,。
I observed two things.。
I think there is one set of responses。
or one set of viewpoints that are not so helpful,。
and other set of viewpoints or perspectives。
perhaps more helpful.。
Whenever a conflict arise in this piece of land,。
people are very quick to go to Bible。
and biblical prophecies being fulfilled and all that stuff.。
I do not think this kind of perspective is helpful.。
Perhaps we need to study,。
that's why we need to study the Bible, right?。
That's why we need to study the Bible in context, right?。
I don't think it is so helpful。
when we just see what's going on in Israel, Palestine,。
and then we quickly flip the pages of the scripture,。
and then we find this prophecy fulfilled。
or this prophecy fulfilled, and this is going to happen,。
and this may happen.。
We have to examine carefully what the Bible claims。
according to its context.。
And I hope to address some of the popular viewpoints。
in this short detour.。
But let me make this clear.。
Wars are ugly and evil.。
Wars are ugly and evil.。
And we as Christians, especially we believe in Jesus Christ,。
we are to pray for those who suffer,。
and we are being called to do peacemaking, right?。
One of the most quoted Bible passages。
when people talk about the Israel-Palestine debate。
is Genesis 12.。
Genesis 12.。
Here the Lord, or God, is calling Abraham, or Abraham,。
and he said to him, "Leave your country, your people,。
"your father's household, and go to the land,"。
which is the land of Canaan, eventually,。
"and I will show you.。
"I will make you into a great nation,。
"and I will bless you.。
"I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing,。
"and I will bless those who bless you.。
"Whoever curses you, I will curse.。
"All the peoples on earth will be blessed through you."。
Now, this passage has often been quoted。
as God's unconditional promise to Abraham,。
the land of Canaan.。
The land of Canaan is given to Abraham,。
the father of Israel,。
therefore, it's given to all of his descendants,。
and therefore, as sons and daughters of Abraham,。
you have the deed, you have the title。
to go into the land and take the land.。
This is what we call sometimes the Abrahamic covenant.。
It means God is making a covenant to Abraham。
and to his generations after him.。
And sometimes we quote this passage,。
and it seems to settle the entire debate。
of Israel-Palestine.。
The land belongs to Abraham and his generations after him。
being granted to this land unconditionally.。
And some would say this is God's land grant。
to Abraham, the father of Israel.。
But when you ask more questions,。
it doesn't seem very straightforward.。
It doesn't seem as straightforward as we expected.。
First, what do we mean by unconditional?。
Now, we use it almost like a cliche for us,。
unconditional, right?。
God's unconditional promise, unconditional blessing.。
But sometimes we just don't think enough, right?。
Now, if you think about the background of the Bible,。
all covenants take two parties,。
just like a marriage covenant, right?。
Marriage covenant takes two parties to work together, right?。
Take two people working together,。
committing themselves together.。
This is the covenant background of the Bible.。
So when we say God is making a covenant with Abraham,。
we have to think very, very careful.。
Is it when we say unconditional,。
are we talking about God is making a unilateral commitment?。
Meaning that God is gonna give Abraham this land。
no matter what he does.。
If he does bad, he still get the land.。
If he does good, he still get the land.。
Is that what we mean?。
Now, as you can see in the last line of the slide,。
I wanna do some grammar with you.。
I know we hate grammar, right?。
Hate all sorts of grammar, English grammar,。
Chinese grammar, or whatever grammar, right?。
Now, if you take into the original verbs of this verse,。
this passage, you find that some of the key verbs。
are cohortative.。
Now, what we mean by cohortative is that。
it's not so much of I promise you something, anything goes.。
No stranger attached.。
Cohortative can be translated, or more correctly translated,。
let me do this.。
Let me bless you.。
Let me make your name great.。
Now, cohortative seeks to communicate potentiality.。
That means there is a possibility,。
there's a potential situation we can reach, we can achieve.。
But let me do this, and you being cohortative。
and collaborate with me.。
So let me bless you, and you trust in me。
so that you will be a blessing.。
You see what I'm saying?。
There are two parties, right?。
It's not a unilateral commitment.。
Let me bless you instead of I will bless you.。
Let me make your name great。
instead of I will make your name great no matter what.。
Now, that's a little bit grammar.。
And in fact, if you read this passage this way,。
it makes more sense when you read the entire story,。
the entire narrative of Abraham.。
In the book of Genesis, chapter 12 through 22,。
the entire journey of Abraham。
is that God is calling him out of Ur,。
and then he goes to the land of Canaan.。
If Abraham respond positively, faithfully,。
he can make this potential situation a reality.。
Only when he obey, then this becomes a reality.。
If he disobeys, if he detours,。
then there are some barriers.。
Something happened and put the covenant in jeopardy.。
Now, 12, one, two, three is this passage.。
You know what happened in verse four?。
12, verse four.。
Let me read this to you.。
Abraham went according to the word of God,。
according to whatever God said to him,。
which is verses one to three.。
So Abraham responded positively.。
And in the entire story, whenever Abraham acts obediently,。
the plan of God advances.。
Whenever Abraham does things on his own,。
with his own means, then the plan detours,。
and there's a threat to the promise of God.。
So all covenants in the Bible have two sides.。
Both sides, both parties, in this case, Abraham and God.。
Abraham's descendant, Israel, and God have to work together.。
Another theory, or another popular saying,。
is that this land promise was not fulfilled,。
was never fulfilled until 1948, the modern state of Israel.。
Now let's examine, or try to trace,。
the theme of land in the entire Bible.。
I told you many, many times, the Bible is a grand story,。
from Genesis, the first book, to Revelation, the last book,。
Old Testament and the New Testament.。
It's a continuous grand story, grand narrative,。
to tell us what God has done in human history,。
in the midst of us.。
From the first book to the last book, it's a grand story.。
So there are different themes in the Bible。
that was introduced in the beginning,。
and you'll find that when you trace it,。
it will develop and it will evolve into something。
or becomes a reality.。
And as we know, all the themes,。
all the major themes in the Bible introduced。
in the beginning, including the land promise,。
find its ultimate fulfillment in Jesus Christ,。
in Christ our Lord.。
So you have to be sensitive when you read the Bible,。
you cannot pick and choose.。
You have to read a passage and know where the passage fits。
in the entire narrative of the Bible.。
So as the Bible story develops,。
the sons of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob,。
they went down to Egypt and soldiered there for 100 years.。
And eventually God was gracious。
and God was faithful to his promise.。
And he called Moses and led the people of Israel。
out of Egypt, that was the Exodus, right?。
And then they came out of Egypt and end up in wilderness。
for 40 years and they did not go to the land.。
They did not get to enter the land because of their rebellion.。
The first generation did not enter the land except Moses.。
Even Moses did not enter the land of Kingdom,。
except two guys.。
Who are they?。
Caleb and Josh, right?。
Caleb and Josh, right?。
They are the only two guy from the first generation。
of Exodus had the blessing to enter the land.。
And then with the second generation。
who were born in the wilderness.。
So finally, under the leadership of Joshua,。
they went into the land, the new generation,。
the second generation of faithful Israelites,。
they went in and they inherited the blessing of God。
because they put their faith in God.。
Again, there's a conditionality there.。
There is a criteria there.。
And the criteria is trust in God。
and you will inherit God's blessing.。
So as we turn to the end of the book of Joshua,。
we see this text.。
So the Lord gave Israel all the land he has sworn。
to give their forefathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.。
They took possession of it and settled down there.。
The Lord gave them rest on every side,。
just as he has sworn to their forefathers.。
Not one of their enemies withstood them.。
The Lord hand all their enemies over them.。
45, very important, 45.。
Not one of all the Lord's good promises。
to the house of Israel failed.。
Not one failed.。
Everyone was fulfilled.。
Doesn't get as clear as this.。
Everyone is fulfilled.。
Every promise, not even one word,。
not even one word to the house of Israel failed.。
Everything is fulfilled.。
The land promise was fulfilled.。
Now before Joshua passed away,。
he also warned the people of God,。
the people of Israel, 23 verse 14.。
I'm about to go the way of all the earth。
and you know all my heart and all my soul。
and not one of all the good promises。
the Lord your God gave you has failed.。
Every promise has been fulfilled.。
Not one has failed.。
You keep on going, 16.。
There was a condition there.。
So now you settle down in the land.。
Now you get the blessing, right?。
However, there was also a condition.。
If you obey the commandment of God,。
the covenant of God, then you will stay.。
You will enjoy the presence of God, his blessing.。
But if you violate, verse 16,。
the covenant of the Lord your God,。
which he commanded you and go and serve other gods。
and bow down and worship them,。
the Lord's anger will burn against you.。
You will quickly perish from the good land。
he has given you.。
See, the land is not a free giveaway, you know.。
It doesn't seem that way, right?。
Even within the Old Testament,。
we are by the way in the sixth book of the Old Testament.。
Genesis to Deuteronomy, the Torah, five books.。
This is the book following the Torah.。
And people of God are expected to live faithfully.。
If they violate the covenant,。
they will be driven out of the land.。
Remember the original people in the land of Canaan,。
the Canaanites, the Amorites,。
they were driven out of the land because what?。
Because their sin has reached its full measure.。
That's why God is driving them out, right?。
Now, as if the Bible is not clear about the fulfillment。
of the land promise to Abraham in the Old Testament,。
the Bible continues to remind us.。
Again, we trace that theme beyond the book of Joshua。
and we come to 1 Kings.。
This is the time of David and Solomon.。
1 Kings 4.20, the people of Judah and Israel,。
they were now 12 tribes united as numerous。
as the sand on the seashore.。
They ate and they drank and they were happy.。
Solomon, the king, ruled over all the kingdoms。
from the river, Euphrates, to the land of Philistine,。
as far as the border of Egypt.。
All these countries brought trouble。
and were Solomon's subjects all his life.。
Keep on going.。
In the dedication prayer of the first temple,。
Solomon said, "Praise be to the Lord,。
who has given rest to his people Israel。
just as he promised."。
Not one, again, this phrase again,。
"Not one word has failed of all the good promises。
God gave to his servant Moses."。
It seems clear that the land promise。
however you want to describe it,。
conditional or unconditional,。
however you describe it,。
God's promise, the land promise,。
is already fulfilled within the time of Old Testament.。
By the time of Solomon,。
all the promises have fulfilled.。
Have fulfilled.。
That's why when they settle down in the land,。
the Israelites are being warned again and again,。
they need to be faithful to the covenant.。
They need to exercise their faith and trust in God。
so that they can enjoy the good land,。
enjoy the presence of God.。
If they don't, if they are faithless,。
then they will be kicked out.。
And that's why eventually they went into exile, right?。
That's how the Old Testament story goes, right?。
Again and again in the Torah or in other verses,。
God warned the people of Israel,。
when you settle down in the land,。
when you enjoy the presence of God,。
you have to do something and to be faithful to the covenant,。
faithful to the commandment of God.。
One of them is to not mistreat an alien or oppress him.。
For you were aliens in Egypt.。
You had that experience before, right?。
And so you don't oppress other people。
with a similar situation.。
It's kind of like us.。
Some of us are immigrants, right?。
We come to this land, we come to this place.。
Sometimes, you know, sadly, we oppress other people, right?。
Remember when you first came to the United States,。
it was a tough time, right?。
I used to work in a restaurant,。
just do dishes for 10 hours a day,。
cold water, no dish washing machine.。
Working in the restaurant 10 hours a day, right?。
It was really, really tough, right?。
Because I, you know, I don't come from a rich family, right?。
I have to work my butt off, right?。
If I turn around, now I'm settled down, right?。
If I turn around and oppress other people,。
this is really sad.。
Exodus 22, do not mistreat an alien。
because you used to be an alien in Egypt。
and you were oppressed.。
That's why you need to treat them kindly, right?。
That's part of the terms within the covenant.。
Leviticus 18, it says, "Even the land was defiled."。
Now, it was talking about the Canaanite,。
the people before Israel took over the land of Canaan.。
So God said, "I punish them for a sin.。
"And the land vomited out its inhabitants."。
And now you guys, the Israelites, 26,。
"You must keep my decrees and my laws.。
"The native born, the aliens living among you。
"must not do any of these detestable things."。
You know, in the context above,。
God has been listing out all the detestable,。
sinful things the Canaanite have done.。
The Israelites are being warned not to follow them.。
Verse 27, "For all these things were done。
"by the people who lived in the land before you,。
"and the land became defiled."。
And if now, if now, if you defile the land,。
the land is like a person, right?。
Vomiting out, just like it vomit out the nations before you.。
So you have to keep the covenant.。
Chapter 20, 22, "Keep all my decrees and laws,。
"follow them, so that the land where I'm bringing you。
"to live may not vomit you out.。
"You must not live according to the custom of nations。
"I'm going to drive out before you,。
"because they did all these things I abhorred them."。
The land, if you wanna live in there,。
if you wanna enjoy the blessing of God,。
if you disobey, you will be vomited out, right?。
If you don't act kindly to other people,。
if you become the oppressors, you will be kicked out, right?。
There's a conditionality there, there is a condition there.。
And why?。
Why is there a condition,。
if the land is given to the Israelites?。
Well, I think 25, 23 from the book of Leviticus。
answer this question.。
And the answer is, "The land must not be sold permanently,。
"because the land of Canaan," God said, "is mine,。
"and you are.。
"But aliens and my tenants,。
"you don't own the land," God said.。
I own the land, God owns the land.。
And the people of God are being blessed to enter the land,。
but they are called to be faithful tenants in the land.。
So let me sum up a little bit。
and give you a little bit more perspective。
on whatever we hear from the modern conflict.。
Number one, the land promise was fulfilled。
in the Old Testament, in the time of David and Solomon.。
Not one word failed, remember?。
God has been faithful.。
Number two, God owns the land.。
The people of God do not own the land.。
They are simply tenants.。
Number three, living in the land is an opportunity。
for the people of God to testify the goodness of God.。
They live in the land of Canaan,。
so that they can tell the world, the nations around them,。
how good God is.。
Number four, security in the land depends on your loyalty,。
your faith to God's promise.。
Number four, land in the Old Testament。
is a foreshadow of life in Christ.。
Put it simply, whenever you read the Old Testament,。
by what we did, you find the people of Israel。
living in the land of Canaan.。
You sum it up as life in the land,。
but they are only the first theme being introduced.。
The theme keeps on developing.。
And when we come to Jesus Christ, our Lord,。
He came and He accomplished the salvation.。
He obeyed God to the end, and He died on the cross。
for your sin and for my sin.。
He was the perfect Israelite,。
the perfect covenant-keeping Israelite.。
And He was faithful to the covenant,。
and He did it on behalf of us.。
So when you read something in the Old Testament。
about the land, it's life in the land,。
how they should live in the land.。
It points to life in Christ.。
In the Old Testament, it was life in the land.。
In the New Testament, now, today,。
since the land promise is already fulfilled,。
and it's fulfilled in Christ,。
life in the land points to life in Christ.。
See, it's the same way.。
If we want to have the blessing in Christ,。
if we want to enjoy the joy and peace and love and harmony。
we have or promise from Scripture in Christ,。
we are also being called to be faithful.。
We have to exercise our faith。
in order to enjoy all these things.。
We can live in the land, live in Christ,。
enjoy His blessing and His presence。
only if we are faithful, right?。
Therefore, in the New Testament,。
it keeps on encouraging us。
that since Christ already fulfilled His covenant,。
fulfilled the salvation to save all of us,。
that's why in Christ we need to continue to follow Him.。
We need to continue to be faithful.。
Let me close by citing this verse,。
and I want to take this verse seriously.。
2 Corinthians 1:20.。
For no matter how many promises God has made,。
they are yes in Christ.。
So through Christ, the amen is spoken by us。
to the glory of God.。
You realize you speak Hebrew?。
We speak Hebrew because whenever we pray,。
we end with amen, right?。
What is that?。
Amen is a Hebrew word, meaning yes,。
meaning definitely, meaning truthfully.。
And what we find the truth,。
what we find the amen is in Christ。
because He did the covenant loyalty for all of us。
so that we, all of us,。
if we begin our faith in Christ,。
we are part of God's people,。
but we are being called to trust in Jesus our Lord.。
And only when we trust in Him,。
only when we are truly born again in Christ,。
then we can experience the grace of God,。
the blessing of God.。
And church, I want to encourage you today.。
Since we have such a huge blessing in Christ,。
therefore we press on.。
We need to continue to put our faith in Jesus our Lord.。
Put our faith in Him and continue to obey。
and trust in Jesus Christ our Lord.。
Amen?。
Let's pray together.。
Father, thank you for your son, Jesus Christ.。
He has done the covenant of faith。
and covenant all the promises we found on the cross.。
Thank you for sending your son to die on the cross。
and rose from the dead.。
And he's the true covenant keeper.。
And thank you for sending your Messiah,。
your Lord to save us,。
save us from sin, from death.。
And I pray that as your church,。
as brother and sister in Christ,。
we not only begin in Christ with faith,。
but we'll continue our faith in you.。
And help us as we face different challenges。
and different problems and different issues in our lives.。
We turn our eyes to you。
and we continue to follow and obey you.。
Thank you for being our faithful God.。
May you continue to help us to be faithful,。
to serve you, to worship you,。
to follow our Lord Jesus Christ.。
in Christ's name we pray.。
