back. All right, now let's welcome Tommy Lee.。
Good morning everyone. All right, Kelly emailed me this past week and says, "Hey Tommy, we。
have a special announcement we're going to add in addition to the staff, but secretly。
I think she says you have 25 minutes." I think in her own way she says, "Make it short, don't。
bore everyone, and you have 20 something minutes because we have some translation." So we're。
going to dive in, go in and look at the passage and see what it is and get out of there so。
we can have our special announcement as well too. But I got the message from Kelly, don't。
bore everyone. Thank you. Jesus walks in and he enters Jerusalem and everyone's cheering。
him, but boy do they turn on him pretty quick. Boy do they turn on him pretty quick. They。
had an expectation of who Jesus was, what he was able to do, and the problem is he didn't。
meet their expectations. And as a result, the people ended up doing what they did for。
him and he ended up crucifying. And in the long run, it became something that opened。
the doors for what we are experiencing today. We look at the story of Elijah today. Elijah。
is the one who John the Baptist was the new Elijah who continued to preach Jesus into。
our lives, but Elijah's life also helps us to understand what that grace means in。
our life. A couple months ago I was here and we looked at 1 Kings chapter 17 verses 1 through。
7. And during that period of time, if you don't, so I'm just going to quickly go。
through it. We looked at the life of Elijah and in the original language, the name Elijah。
simply means "My God is Jehovah." That's what Elijah means, "My God is Jehovah."。
He came from, he's the Tishbit of Tishbi in Gilead. That's what 1 Kings tells him.。
He comes from this obscure little city in Tishbi and scholars didn't really know。
where it was, so it tells us that it's somewhere in Gilead. It's this rural city. And so。
Elijah of Tishbi in Gilead comes from obscurity. And this guy, this rural guy who comes from。
obscurity ends up talking with the king, King Ahab of the Northern Kingdom. If you were。
here I explained to you during that period of time, there's a Northern Kingdom and。
there's a Southern Kingdom. The story of Elijah takes place in the Northern Kingdom.。
And he says to this king, King Ahab, there's 19 kings all throughout the Northern Kingdom。
in its history before it's taken over. Ahab was the worst of all the kings. Jezebel later。
on, his wife, the queen, is worse than Ahab. So this couple is the worst that any of the。
regime in the Northern Kingdom ever saw. And Elijah says to King Ahab, "Neither dew nor。
rain except by my word." Why? Because Ahab was worshiping the god Baal, the god of rain,。
of storm, of weather, fertility, all of that stuff. Because King Ahab believed that if。
he put all his trust on this king or this god Baal, he was going to produce fertility.。
Fertility produces food, produces money, produces flour, all of that stuff, and it was going。
to help him accomplish his goals. And he turned his eyes on the Lord. And so Elijah comes。
and says, "Neither dew nor rain except by my word." And he tells us, and that becomes。
the theme of what we talked about, "Before whom I stand." That was his motivation. That。
was the theme, "Before whom I stand." Later on, God ushers him at the end of the verse,。
that last part of chapter 17 in verse 7, he ushers him away to Cherith. And there he doesn't。
stay, but he rather lives in Cherith for a period of time. God takes him away from seclusion.。
There God protects him. There God continues to work in him. And during that period of。
time, he's fed by ravens, and he is fed by the brook in Cherith until it dries, which。
leads us to today's passage in verses 8 through 16. "Then the word of the Lord came。
to him, 'Arise, leave Cherith, and go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell。
there. Behold, I have commanded a widow there to feed you.' So he arose and went to Zarephath.。
And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks.。
And he called to her and says, 'Bring me a little water in a vessel that I may drink.'。
And as she was going to bring, he called to her and said, 'Bring me a morsel of bread。
in your hand.' And she says, 'As the Lord your God lives, I have nothing baked, only。
a handful of flour in a jar and a little oil in a jug. And now I am gathering a couple。
of sticks that I may go in and prepare for myself and my son that we may eat it and die.'。
And Elijah said to her, 'Do not fear. Go and do as you have said. But first make me。
a little cake of it and bring it to me. And afterward make something special for yourself。
and your son.' For thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, 'The jar of flour shall not。
be spent, and the jug of oil shall not be empty until the day that the Lord sends rain。
upon the earth.' And she went and did as Elijah said. And she and her husband ate for。
many days. The jar of flour was not spent, neither did the jug of oil become empty according。
to the word of the Lord that he spoke by Elijah." If you're following after today, we are。
reading from the ESV version, 1 Kings chapter 17, verses 8 through 16. If I literally had。
to title this sermon, I would literally rename it 3 by 2. And it literally means this. There。
are three things that Elijah needs to know. Three things Elijah needs to know. Two things。
that he has to overcome. Three things that Elijah needs to know. Two things that he has。
to overcome. Let's talk about those three things. Number one, Elijah needs to know that。
the Lord sees him and knows where he's at. Number two, the Lord knows where he's going.。
Number three, the Lord knows what he needs. Three things. Number one, the Lord knows and。
sees him and knows where he's at. Number two, the Lord knows where he's going. Number three,。
the Lord knows what he needs. Verse 8, "Then the word of the Lord came to him." The Lord。
sees you. The Lord sees me. The Lord sees you. There is something so powerful about。
knowing that we are seen by God. There is something powerful knowing that the great。
omniscient God who controls all of the universe sees you, has a plan for you, and has a unique。
plan in your life. It gives us dignity. It gives us worth. It makes us feel special.。
We've all learned that ever since we were kids. We've all wanted to seek approval, and。
we've all wanted to be seen by our parents. I have a little girl, her name is Kara. Kara。
is four years old. And in this day, right now, she goes to Puy Taks school, and there's。
an Easter program. And Kara is in the school assembly, and from that point on, she sits。
there, and then later on when they call her, she gets up to the stage. And immediately,。
you guys probably know if you guys have kids what that means. She's looking around. And。
you know what she's looking around. She's trying to figure out where her parents are.。
Why? Because she wants to know that we're watching her. She wants to know that we're。
looking and seeing at her. After the program is done, she runs, and Kara's really quiet。
for the most part, pretty shy. But for this time around, she runs and she looks for us,。
and she runs to us. And immediately, her first words were, "Did you see me? Did you see me?。
Did you see me?" I said to her, "Of course I saw you." She looks at me and says, "No,。
no, did mommy see me?" Because she doesn't really care what I say. She always cares about。
what her mom says to her. "Did my mom see her?" We want to be seen. We want to feel。
dignity. We want to feel worth. Story in Acts chapter 3, Peter and John. Rarely do you ever。
get Peter and John together. It's a great team up that they have there. Maybe this is。
the second story in Acts chapter 3. A man laying from birth was being carried, whom。
they lay daily at the gate of the temple. That is called the beautiful gate to ask alms。
of those entering the temple. Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, this。
man laying from birth asked to receive alms. In verse 4, here's a powerful verse, chapter。
3, verse 4. Peter directed his gaze at him, as did John. It says, "Look at us." He directs。
his gaze at him. You guys, all of us know what that means. When we drive off and we。
enter off and exit off Highway 55 into Chinatown, when we go and exit off Cicero to Midway Airport,。
when we get off a highway, what do we always see? We see someone begging for money. We。
see people sitting there banging their buckets asking for money. And immediately, you know。
what all of us do? We sit there and we're stopped at a red light and we pretend like。
we're looking at our phones or we're looking straight ahead because we know what that means.。
If we make eye contact, they're asking us for money. And as Asians, we don't want to。
say no, so we don't make eye contact. But here, Peter and John, there's a man begging。
for money. Peter and John sits there and directs his gaze at him and he looks at them straight。
in the eye and says, "Look at us." He gives a man who is lame, who is begging for money,。
dignity. He lets that man know, "I see you." The Lord sees us. The Lord knows where we're。
at. Verse 9, "Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there." Second。
point is that Lord knows where we need to go. He has a plan. He opens and closes doors。
as he sees fit. Joshua chapter 3 is one of the most amazing directions. When Joshua takes。
over the Israelites in chapter 3, they are ready. They've lived in the wilderness for。
40 years. And on one day, God says to Joshua, "Tell the people we're going to the promised。
land. Pack up." And after 40 years on that day, they pack up and they're ready to go.。
Can you imagine what they're feeling on that day knowing that after 40 years, they're packing。
up? They don't know what they're going to deal with. They don't know what dangers are。
in store. They look at the Jordan River. What in the world do we do there? But one of the。
most powerful verses in John chapter 3 is the Lord God says to Joshua, "Tell the people。
to follow, to follow the ark of the covenant." Why? Because you've never been there before.。
You've never been there before. Because the Lord knows where you need to go. All of us。
who are sitting here, I think a lot of us are older, there's not too many college students。
here. All of us have struggled with our career. You may have graduated and you're trying to。
figure out what's next in your life. You may be in a job right now and you just kind of。
just don't like your job. You may be watching right now and says, "Man, I'm trying to figure。
out what's next." But there's no clarity. And you're asking, "Lord, what is it that。
you want me to do?" And here's an illustration, right? I had a friend, Ian. I went to Washington。
University in St. Louis. Ian was a pre-med major. And Ian, all throughout freshman year。
and all the way to senior year, he was studying to become a doctor. That's what his parents。
wanted. And that senior year, he was ready to take MCATs and something just didn't sit。
well with him. He realized, "I don't want to be a doctor. My parents want me to be a。
doctor. I don't want to be a doctor." You know what he wanted to do? He wanted to do。
film. He really loved doing film. And so a lot of times he started doing film on his。
hobby and everything like that, entered the film festival at Washington University in。
St. Louis, won first place in the film festival. And he made the decision, because he felt。
like the Lord was tugging on his heart, to leave medicine, disappoint and frustrate his。
parents, and go into film school at Florida State. He graduates from Florida State with。
film. And from that point, he takes all these little odd-end jobs. Doesn't make any money.。
And so he's trying to figure out, "Lord, you brought me out of here to figure and do。
film and now I can't find a job. Is this really what you have in store for me?" But he kept。
pressing on and pressing on. And pretty soon, he got hired to do this startup program that。
just got released, America's Next Top Model. And so he started filming that. And later。
on, he got another job offer in Los Angeles. They had two shows that they wanted him to。
do. They were just starting up shows. It was CSI or Criminal Minds. And he'd go pick。
your pick. And that grew into what he's doing today. And he kept telling me, "Tommy,。
I didn't know what to do. I just kept praying. Help me to spot what you are asking me to。
do, Lord. Help me to continue to see what you are showing me, not my will, but what。
yours." The Lord opens and closes doors as he sees fit. My prayer and your prayer in。
everything that we do is always saying, "Lord, may we spot those open doors. May we spot。
those closed doors. May we be aware of it according to your own time. But may we continue。
to take myself, my goals, what I want out of it and continue to seek you. And may you。
make that aware of it every single point in time." The Lord sees you. The Lord knows。
where you are. The Lord knows where you need to go. But thirdly, the Lord knows what you。
need. "Arise, go to Zarephath, and behold, I have commanded a widow there to free you."。
He knows what you need to do. Now, it may not be what you want. Really? A widow? Seriously?。
Cherith, you're going to go to Cherith and you're going to go to Zarephath. You know。
how that's a hundred miles. You want me to walk a hundred miles out in the open? I hid。
in Cherith this entire time. I was hiding in Cherith away from Ahab because you remember。
this, I threatened the king. He's not sitting around waiting for me. He's looking for me.。
So now you want me to walk a hundred miles to Zarephath? Yes. And there, who's going。
to take care of me? A widow. Really? A widow. The Lord knows what you need. It may not be。
what you want. It may not be what you think you need. But he knows what you need. The。
Lord knows where you are. The Lord sees you, number one. The Lord knows where you're going.。
It may not come the way you want it to go. It may take some time to figure out what those。
open and closed doors are. And he knows what you need. But at the same time, you're going。
to have to overcome two things. You're going to have to overcome first impressions and。
expectations. And secondly, you're going to have to overcome what's physically impossible.。
Let me talk about that. So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate。
of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks. And he called to her and says, "Bring。
me a little water in a vessel that I may drink." And as she was going to bring it, he called。
to her and says, "Bring me a morsel of bread in your hand." And she says, "As the Lord。
your God lives." Not even as the Lord my God. As the Lord your God. Really? She's not even。
of the faith? "As the Lord your God, I have nothing big." Really? "Only a handful of flour。
in a jar and a little oil in a jug. And now I am gathering a couple of sticks that I may。
go in and prepare it for myself and my son that we may eat it and die." Really, Lord?。
You're going to ask me to walk a hundred miles? A widow's going to take care of me? And that。
widow is not part of the faith? That widow has only a handful of flour in a jar, little。
oil in a jug, and she is going to sit there, make the remaining of the food that I'm supposed。
to be eating with her servants and her son so she could go in and die. Yes! Yes! That's。
what I want you to do. So along the path of following God, you're going to have to overcome。
expectations and first impressions. You're going to have to trust that whatever you see。
before you is going to be more than you ever imagined. And sometimes when we have first。
impressions, we struggle with it. All of us love food. Hey, look, how many of our friends。
sit there on Instagram and have food collections where you take care of food? And a lot of。
times when we travel to all these different restaurants, right, we sit there and we think。
if the menu is kind of expensive, it's very nice, the food must be very good. And if we。
think it's a dumpy restaurant, the food must not be very good. But as many of you guys。
know, especially in Asia, we have all these hawker stalls where they have some of the。
most amazing food in these hawker stalls. For some of you who live—I'm 46 years old.。
I think Mark is a little bit older than I am, but I grew up here in Chinatown. And back。
in the days in Chinatown, there was this—Mark, I'm not sure if you remember, there was this。
old rundown restaurant called Golden Gate Restaurant. Golden Gate Restaurant was this。
hole in the wall where these old Chinese people, including my dad, would go every day. And。
for a dollar, you bought a cup of coffee and some toast, and you bought dim sum for like。
a dollar fifty. I still remember going with my dad all the time on Saturday, Sunday. He。
would sit there with his friends, there's cigarettes smoking everywhere, and my brother。
and sister and I would sit there in our own little table and eat dim sum for a dollar。
something. It was the oldest, smelliest, dirtiest place you ever went to, right under Poy Tak。
Center, it's no longer there, but it had the best dim sum you ever had. But strictly。
by going in, you would never know. Because sometimes first impressions, sister says,。
"It doesn't allow God to work. Don't judge a book by its cover." It's a whole idea.。
And when we go into situations, we have to sit there and overcome expectations, overcome。
first impressions to see how God works. And then you're going to have to overcome physical。
impossibilities. We see it all throughout scriptures, don't we? Feeding up to 5,000,。
where Jesus takes some bread and some fish and was able to feed the 5,000. We see it。
in the walls of Jericho, where the Israelites go and the walls of Jericho come crumbling。
down. We see it with the story of David and Goliath, where tiny David, where all of the。
Israelite army are running away. But young David is able to defeat Goliath. You're going。
to have to overcome physical impossibilities to continue to follow after him. But yet,。
at the same time, he says, verse 13, "And Elijah says to her, 'Do not fear.'" And here's。
the key phrase as we begin to wrap up. "Go and do." Do not fear. Go and do. Why was Elijah。
able to do that? Because there's two things I think Elijah was able to figure out. Elijah,。
the Tishbit from Tishbi in Gilead, whose name literally means "My God is Jehovah," knew。
God's word. He knew God's word. He knew God's promises. But he also remembered what God。
did for him in the past. He rescued him out of Ahab and into Cherith. He watches the Lord。
provided for him through ravens and through a book and now sitting there in this situation,。
he knew that God was going to watch him. Probably not in the way he expected to do, so he's。
able to go and do. You and I, in the midst of following after God, in the midst of seeking。
God's will in our life, we're going to have to overcome physical impossibilities. We're。
going to have to overcome first impressions because God sees us. Now, along the journey。
of life, he's going to call us to do something, which sometimes we may be scared to do or。
we're going to face situations where we don't know what to do. And he's going to call us。
to trust in him because he will provide us according to his need. He calls us to go and。
do. But we're able to trust him if and when we continue to know God's word and we continue。
to remember what God did in the past and cling upon those memories. I leave this with one。
final story. I did youth ministry for about 18 years. I had this one student who grew。
up, I knew him all the way from junior high to high school to college, and when he graduated。
from the University of Michigan, he got married at a young age, 24 years old. He and his wife。
moved back to Seattle, and after being married at age 26, 27 I think, one day she had a headache.。
He was at work, he was an optometrist at Costco, and she had a headache. And the headache got。
so bad she went to the hospital by herself and she collapsed. And she had went into a。
coma and she never woke up. She had a brain aneurysm. And he never got the chance to say。
goodbye. He rushed over to the hospital and by then she was pretty much gone. And I asked。
him, I said, "What kept you going during that time? You never had a chance to say goodbye,。
you never even, you walked out of there that day, you never saw her again." She was also。
an only child, so her parents had to deal with it. And he says, "I had to choose to。
trust God's word in my life, and I trusted and remembered the memories of how he worked。
in our life, in our marriage, even though it was a short time. I had to trust that.。
I had to choose to trust that. God knows where you are. God knows where you're going. God。
knows what you need. But you're going to have to overcome first impressions. You're going。
to have to overcome expectations. And you're going to have to overcome physical impossibilities.。
The God that we love and choose, whose people in Israel turn on him a couple days later,。
who cries and yells to God in the Garden of Gethsemane, "Take this cup away from me,"。
which God chooses not to do, who dies on the cross, continues to be our inspiration of。
why we do what we do. And that's why as we enter Good Friday, as we enter Easter, we。
do have that confidence to overcome. We do have that confidence to overcome physical。
impossibility, expectations, because Jesus showed us on the cross of what that meant.。
He showed us what it meant to deal with the pain and the punishment so that you and I。
can be sitting here this morning. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the story of Elijah.。
The story of Elijah teaches us three wonderful things and three things that we need to overcome.。
Thank you for the stories that you give us through Scripture that guides us on where。
we must go, what we must do. Help us as we continue to go forth in our life to seek you。
every step of the way. Christ, we pray.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
