All right, thanks, Kelly.。
Well, today's marathon, you guys in the race?。
You wish, right?。
You wish.。
I was talking to someone in the morning service, and。
he's a veteran.。
He's actually ran, I think, five races in the past 10 years.。
So he's a veteran.。
He doesn't have to do the draw to to join the race.。
So so I was I was I was looking at him.。
He was here and I was talking to him and said,。
Why are you here?。
Was supposed to be a running.。
Right. And he said, No, I'm not going to run today.。
I mean, this year and he's running, you know, every every other year.。
So we do have some runners.。
We do have some runners in our congregation.。
In any case, good to be with you.。
And I know the traffic is kind of crazy, especially if you're coming。
from the downtown area and the South Loop area.。
But, you know, it's great to be here.。
We will go to the last letter of the seven letters to the seven churches.。
So if you have the Bible, please turn with me to chapter three,。
chapter three of Revelation.。
We are finally coming to the last letter.。
Remember, there were seven letters.。
Jesus sent letters to seven churches。
and from Ephesus, the first one and all the way to。
Lilladahshir today and Lilladahshir is kind of inland.。
It's about 40 miles southwest of Philadelphia.。
Remember, we talk about the latter to Philadelphia as well.。
And also is 100 miles east of Ephesus.。
So it's situated in a valley.。
It's a very fertile valley.。
And what is known for in Lilladahshir。
is that it's a traffic hub. It's kind of like Chicago, right?。
It's kind of like Chicago.。
We are right at the center of all the traffic.。
That's why we always have a traffic jam all the time.。
And it's getting worse with all the road constructions and all that.。
And back in the first century,。
there was a Roman highway going through from right to left。
and it passes through Lilladahshir.。
So as you can see, it's a traffic hub.。
It's also a banking hub, a financial hub.。
And it's also famous for textile industry and medical schools.。
You know, back then they have medical schools。
and they have fairly famous。
medicine for eye diseases.。
If you have some eye diseases in those days, you go to Lilladahshir.。
In those days, you go there to be a doctor.。
You go there to earn money.。
So as you can imagine, the city is very, very rich.。
And all the people there are very rich.。
And I'll tell you a story in the first century, about 1860.。
So about 30 years after Jesus' death and resurrection.。
And it's within the period of the early church.。
And there was a massive earthquake。
happened around the region of Lilladahshir.。
And if you remember, the letter of。
revelations were written in 1890, late first century.。
So 30 years before this letter was written,。
this massive earthquake happened in Lilladahshir.。
It was 1860.。
And some of the towns were destroyed as well, like Sardis.。
Can you see Sardis right there?。
Sardis, Philadelphia, Sardis.。
Sardis was completely wiped out.。
And Rome has to use the federal fund to help rebuild Sardis.。
However, Lilladahshir is such a remarkable city, and。
they didn't need any funds from Rome.。
And they rebuilt the city themselves.。
It's pretty cool, right?。
In the past few weeks, we heard about the hurricane。
in southeast of United States, Florida.。
Well, just imagine the towns are being just tragic。
and everything is wiped out and you need federal money。
to pump into the region and to rebuild everything and to clean up everything,。
to rebuild the lives of the people.。
Lilladahshir back then said to the Roman government,。
saying to Rome, we don't need your federal money。
because we have enough money to rebuild after the earthquake. Right.。
Pretty cool, right?。
And you can imagine the people in the church in Lilladahshir,。
they should have that kind of pride and financial resources.。
And that go into the culture, that go into the church.。
And I would say it is very true for our church as well.。
Yes, we don't have a lot of people, but aren't we all pretty resourceful?。
I think we are.。
In some way or the other.。
So this letter is written to the church in Lilladahshir and also to us.。
Let's read it through. It's a fun letter to read through.。
Verse 14 and following.。
To the angel of the church in Lilladahshir write.。
Jesus said to the church in Lilladahshir, the Christian in Lilladahshir.。
These are the words of the Amen.。
The faithful, true witness, the ruler of God's creation.。
I know your deeds and you are neither cold nor hot.。
I wish you were either one or the other.。
So because you are lukewarm, neither hot nor cold,。
I am about to speak you out, out of my mouth.。
It's kind of interesting.。
Jesus interceded himself as the Amen.。
Well, you know, Amen.。
What does it mean?。
Was pray and end with this cold, cold word.。
Right. This cold word.。
Amen. What does it mean?。
Truth. Right.。
Sincere, truthfully.。
Amen. Amen. I said to you, Jesus said to the people all the time in the gospels.。
Amen. Amen.。
I said to you and English translation is truly, truly.。
I said to you, no, God does not lie.。
God cannot lie.。
And what God says must be true.。
And it has to be true.。
This is who God is.。
Jesus said something about our lives, about the church in Laodicea,。
and he gave his evaluation and the evaluation has to be right,。
has to be truthful, has to be according to the facts.。
And his evaluation is kind of interesting.。
He said, you guys are lukewarm.。
I would rather you guys are hot or cold,。
but you guys are lukewarm, you are neither cold nor hot.。
That's interesting.。
Sometimes we use this verse as as if, you know, God is wanting us to。
not to be lukewarm, we either be hot or cold.。
And you think about it, it's very interesting if you use this verse this way,。
because, you know, aren't we required to increase our spiritual temperature,。
our passion for God, right?。
Our passion for God.。
If if this verse is about our heart temperature for God, our passion for God,。
willing God prefer us to be, of course, hot, right?。
And of course, warm, warm is better than cold.。
Hot is better than warm.。
You see what I'm saying?。
You know, you take the temperature of the congregation and God is saying,。
hey, you know, you guys are lukewarm.。
I just don't want you guys, I'll spit you out.。
But if hot, meaning we have passion for God,。
then of course, God prefers that.。
But if cold in that sense is being lack of passion for God,。
then that sounds kind of strange.。
But the Christians in the little desire are lukewarm.。
They're not too hot, not too cold.。
Lukewarm, it's just like a glass of water.。
Like a glass of water, you know, between 100 Fahrenheit to 60 Fahrenheit。
is kind of considered hot, right?。
I consider it lukewarm because the temperature,。
if raises above 100 Fahrenheit, it can burn you.。
It can burn your tongue.。
If it's below 60, it's kind of cold.。
So room temperature is kind of like 60 to 100 Fahrenheit.。
So we always take this word as the measurement of our spiritual temperature,。
our passion as Christians.。
And God will be saying, you know, I do not prefer you to be lukewarm.。
Now, if that's the case, I think it's kind of strange, right?。
As I said, wouldn't God prefer us to be warmer than cold?。
But this word says neither cold nor hot.。
I would rather you guys, you know, be cold or be hot, you know,。
just don't be lukewarm.。
So, you know, there has to be some other way to understand this verse.。
And I think if we get this right, it applies to all of us.。
Now, in order to understand this, we have to understand geography.。
Geography.。
Here on the map, you can see Heropolis.。
Heropolis is on the left, upper left, right?。
Heropolis.。
And then on the right is Colossae.。
And then right in the center is Laodicea.。
Now, what am I talking about?。
Now, since this passage is about water in Laodicea,。
so we have to take a look at the region, about the water supply.。
Now, Heropolis on the upper left is about eight miles north of Laodicea.。
It is a city and it's still a very, a city alive today。
because they are famous for hot mineral springs.。
Hot mineral springs.。
Just like you go to Yellowstone National Park,。
you see all kinds of, you know, hot springs.。
Or you go to hot spring in the Arkansas,。
there's a place called Hot Springs because they are known for hot springs。
and people will enjoy it.。
And you can see in the picture, it's still alive today.。
And tourists will go there and just dump yourself into a hot spring。
and you just enjoy your time, right?。
Cool.。
So that's the water supply in Heropolis.。
In the east, on the right, is Colossae.。
It is situated at the foot of a snow-capped mountain.。
It's called Mount Katmos.。
And because you are right there, Colossae,。
you are right below or right at the foothill of the snow-capped mountain,。
what do you get?。
You get cold water.。
Therapeutic water.。
And you can take a bath even.。
And you can drink the pure, pure water.。
It's like you get a bottle of water today,。
it says whatever mountain, whatever spring that it comes from,。
probably it's fake.。
But you get pure water in Colossae.。
So you got hot water on the left, upper left, hot spring.。
And then you got cold water on the right.。
So as you can see,。
the verse is referring to the other city.。
God said to Laodicea, "I would rather you guys be hot or cold,。
but you guys are lukewarm."。
Let's take a look at the description of lukewarm water.。
Laodicea had, it's known in history,。
Laodicea did not have reliable water supply.。
Because the water has, by the time the water from the hot spring。
coming to Laodicea to the south,。
the temperature decreases, right?。
Hot water becomes lukewarm water.。
And remember, if the water becomes lukewarm,。
you cannot use it as hot spring.。
It's not hot spring anymore.。
It's called lukewarm spring.。
But it's not therapeutic anymore.。
It's not for medicine anymore.。
And the water from hot spring。
usually carries a lot of minerals.。
And when that mineral rich water reaches Laodicea,。
it will clog up the water pipes.。
It will clog up the water pipes.。
Today, we call it hot water.。
You see what I'm saying?。
It's common sense, right?。
Yeah, it's common sense.。
That's why you need filter water.。
You filter out the dirt or the mineral in the water。
so that you can drink it.。
Now, that's what happened in Laodicea.。
All they got is hot water, lukewarm water.。
You can't drink it.。
And it's bitter to drink it.。
So you have to spit it out.。
So now you got it.。
Here are some of the pictures from Laodicea,。
and you can still see some of the broken pipes.。
They have some pipes, you see the white stuff.。
Around the pipes, those are from, you know,。
hardened, solidified minerals of the lukewarm water.。
So if you're a plumber in Laodicea,。
you got good business.。
Because every house needs your service every now and then.。
Because you have to clean up the pipe.。
You have to clean up all the plumbing system。
so that you get water coming into the city.。
So they don't have fresh water.。
So God is saying, "You are right in the middle."。
Right?。
I put a plumber there。
because it's gonna be bad to live in Laodicea.。
You always have to drink from bottles of water.。
You don't, you can't, you can't just, you know,。
turn on your tap and get some water to drink.。
So much different from Chicago.。
God is saying, "I would rather you guys be hot on the left.。
Be hot spring, so you're functional.。
You can bring benefit to other people.。
Or to the right, the cold water, people can drink it."。
He's talking about not the temperature of the water.。
It's the functionality, the functions or purpose of the water.。
Right in the middle of Laodicea,。
the water has no use.。
You have to spit it out.。
It's totally no use.。
He's referring, using this metaphor to talk about Christians in Laodicea.。
And they are nominal Christians.。
What does it mean, nominal Christians?。
That, okay, you profess that you are Christians,。
but you don't live like one.。
You don't live out the gospel.。
You don't have a living relationship with Christ.。
You just go through the motion and you just don't care.。
Right? You come here, okay, all right, then, you know, Monday to Saturday,。
I just care about myself.。
You just don't care about your relationship with God.。
You don't have a living relationship with God.。
You don't have the life to show other people.。
So you cannot bring benefits to other people.。
God is saying, "I would rather be left or be right.。
Be cold or be hot, so that people can use you.。
God can use you to be his instruments, to be a witness to him."。
So we got that clear up, right?。
We got that clear up.。
It's not talking about spiritual temperature.。
It's talking about spiritual function.。
It's malfunctioning Christians.。
It's malfunctioning Christians in Laodicea.。
You're not doing what you're supposed to do.。
You're not living a life you're supposed to do.。
Because when we believe in the gospel, we should have changed,。
at least fundamentally, our value system,。
our schedule, our life, our function,。
and our relationship with God and to other people.。
Everything has to be reconfigured.。
But in Laodicea, all those Christians are nominal Christians.。
They are not functioning, malfunctioning church.。
Now, as you can see, you know, what does Christ want in our lives?。
Christ wants, Christ desires a living relationship with you.。
God desires most about your relationship with God himself, with Jesus.。
In order to be fruitful, in order to be functional,。
you cannot be lukewarm.。
God has to use you.。
What is your function?。
Jesus said, "If you abide in me, if you have a living relationship,。
fellowship with me, then I can dwell in you.。
If you love my word, if you abide in my word, then I can live my life through you."。
Christ desires, Jesus wants your whole heart worship,。
your service, your time, your talent, your treasure, your life,。
God's life, eternal life can live through you.。
And you can do things out of love for God.。
That's what Jesus desires.。
He doesn't really look at how rich you are or how well off you are.。
If you are not generous, you present no functions to other people.。
You are not being used by God's eternal kingdom.。
That's what Jesus wants.。
He wants you to have a living relationship with him.。
And secondly, this passage says, God decides to dwell in your heart.。
Because without Christ dwelling in our heart, without Christ dwelling in our heart,。
we cannot live out the gospel.。
This letter continues, 317.。
Jesus said, "You say, I am rich.。
I have acquired wealth and do not need a thing."。
But Jesus said, "You do not realize you are actually wretched.。
You're wretched.。
You're pitiful, poor, blind and naked.。
I counsel you to buy from me gold with fire in the fire, so you can become rich.。
And buy from me white clothes to wear, so that you can cover your shameful nakedness.。
And then you can heal your eyes so that you can see."。
You see, this is all local languages.。
Laodicea is famous and well known for all of this stuff.。
Their gold, their treasure, their wealth, and their power.。
The textile industry.。
Their eye medicines.。
That's a spirit of self-sufficiency.。
That we think we can do life without God.。
Ask questions.。
I'll make money.。
I'll save up money.。
I don't need Jesus.。
I mean, come on, Jesus is just a footnote to me.。
The main content, I'm going to write my life.。
I'm going to write every chapter.。
That's my main content.。
And where's Jesus?。
I mean, maybe it's just a little bit footnote.。
Jesus said, "You are actually pitiful.。
You're poor and you're blind and naked."。
319.。
"Those whom I love," Jesus said, "I would bilk and discipline.。
So be earnest and repent.。
Here I am, I stand at the door and knock.。
If anyone hears my voice and open the door, I will come in。
and dine with him and he with me."。
You see the language of fellowship here?。
Eating together in the ancient world is so important.。
It's also important today.。
It is even more important in those days.。
In the ancient world, intimate fellowship, you know,。
dining together and sharing a meal together.。
To have friendship.。
To have a living relationship.。
So we can eat together, we can talk together,。
we can have fellowship together.。
You see, good friends, what do good friends do?。
They eat together.。
But do you eat with your enemies?。
No, you don't.。
You eat with your good friends and you talk to them。
for hours.。
You can talk to your good friend for hours and hours。
and it feels like eternity.。
That's what Jesus desires.。
Jesus is knocking on your door, knocking on our door.。
And Jesus said, "Please listen to my voice.。
I want to renew my relationship with you.。
I'm here all along, I'm knocking."。
And what's wrong with this picture?。
Jesus is being kicked out of the house.。
But He is there knocking.。
It's not because He doesn't have power to open your door.。
He does have power to open the door.。
Jesus is not saying, "Okay, I'm going to beg you,。
I'm going to love seek without you.。
I have to come in and have fellowship with you。
and otherwise I feel like less of myself."。
No, Jesus is not like that.。
Remember the first verse of this letter,。
Jesus said, "I am the Amen, I'm the ruler of the creation.。
I'm the Cosmos guy, you know.。
I create the cosmos.。
I create the universe and I am in charge of the universe."。
However, Jesus is saying with gentle words,。
"I am standing outside and I'm knocking on your door.。
I desire fellowship, relationship with you."。
Verse 21, "To him who overcomes,。
I'll give the right to sit with me on the throne.。
Just as I overcome and sat down with my Father on His throne.。
He who has ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches."。
As we close and finish off this series,。
this is the seventh letter。
and this is the most, my beloved letter。
because it says so much about us.。
It says so much about me as well.。
Sometimes I just busy with my work。
and I forgot that what Jesus really desire。
is a moment with me。
so that I can read His word.。
I can listen to His voice and have fellowship together.。
When was the last time you really enjoy relationship with God?。
And you just spend hours and hours。
praying and nurturing the relationship,。
talking, talking to Christ, someone who loves us.。
Just this letter is filled with warnings,。
is filled with builds.。
There's no praises here.。
But you know, don't misunderstand.。
You know, God sometimes has some hard words for us.。
It's not because He hates us.。
It's not because He wants to condemn us.。
Some of those hard words, tough words are tough love.。
Jesus said, "I want to sit down with you。
to have a meal."。
Meal, quite no agenda.。
It's like a close friend.。
Intimacy.。
We come before Christ today.。
Let us turn and repent.。
God looks at us now.。
God looks at your heart right now.。
He doesn't count you, how much you have accumulated。
or how much achievement for Him at this moment.。
Jesus said, "I'm knocking on the door."。
Knocking on the door of your heart, open,。
and I'll come in and have intimacy, fellowship with you.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we confess that sometimes we treat our faith。
as just a concept of philosophy or idea.。
No matter how good the idea sounds,。
that is not the point, that is not the core.。
The core is coming before you。
and know that you love us。
and know that we respond with love.。
I know you are knocking on our door every single day。
and we confess that sometimes we pretend。
that we don't hear it.。
We just go about our lives without you。
and treat you as a footnote.。
So we've confessed our sins.。
We just confess our weaknesses.。
And at this time, we just pray that your Spirit。
will speak to us and turn our hearts back to you。
so that we will enjoy our relationship with you,。
so that our lives will abide in your Word,。
our lives will abide in your love,。
that your life, your eternal life,。
the life of Christ, the life of the gospel,。
can live through us.。
So Jesus, we open the door.。
You come into our hearts。
and be our Lord, be our ruler,。
just as you are ruler of the entire universe.。
So yes, we come before you。
and thank you for being our loving God.。
In Christ, we pray.。
Well, we're gonna close off with our verse of the month.。
All right?。
Verse of the month.。
I hope you have that memorized.。
If not, we're gonna recite it together.。
Now, this is a relevant promise。
out of the letter of 1 John.。
And it's a very appropriate closing。
for the last letter of the seven churches.。
1 John 1, 9.。
Why don't we read together?。
"If we confess our sins,。
He is faithful and just。
and will forgive us our sins。
and purify us from all unrighteousness."。
If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just.。
He is righteous and He will forgive us in Christ.。
All of our sins and clean us up。
from all the unrighteousness,。
all the injustice, all the sinfulness.。
And God is gonna live in our hearts.。
Today, if you echo with my prayers,。
I do wanna urge you,。
let us spend more time with God.。
Now, every day, you know, take 10 minutes, 15 minutes,。
you know, rather than, you know, scrolling through our phone。
and, you know, looking at TikTok videos,。
Instagram updates or whatever crazy news out there.。
Know that God is in control.。
Spend some time of intimacy with Him。
because God always desires your heart.。
Right? Let your heart be open to Him.。
So we do that.。
And today, as we end our service,。
and we're gonna have some refreshment,。
and please stay, please stay for Bible study.。
You know, don't treat Bible study。
as an intellectual exercise only.。
Your faith needs the Word of God.。
If you wanna grow,。
there's no way that you can just go through the motions.。
You need the Word of God to dwell in your heart.。
All right?。
So we do invite you to stay。
for about an hour of Bible study,。
and we're going to chapter two of the Book of Romans.。
And I'll lead the English group,。
and Paul is gonna lead the Chinese group.。
And we're gonna enjoy our time and have fellowship。
and abide in God's Word.。
