Amen.。
- Good morning, thank you very, very much.。
All right.。
Well, happy July 4th.。
Mark, it's good to have you back from Israel.。
Last time I was here, you were missing,。
and it is always good to be back here at UV.。
We've been in this whole series。
about the life and times of Elijah,。
and one of the things I encourage you。
that I've really enjoyed doing is studying,。
taking a character, taking a book of the Bible,。
and just digging down into it.。
We spent the last three, four times I've been here。
talking about 1 Kings chapter 17.。
There is nothing like sitting there。
and just reading the same verses over and over again,。
and thinking about it throughout the week,。
and saying, "Lord, what is it。
"that you're trying to teach me?"。
Today, we're gonna look at 1 Kings chapter 18,。
but before we do, let me just give a summary。
of where we've been for those who are new,。
for those who've been with us,。
just a refresher, and as we look at Elijah,。
we started off in 17.1, where we talked about,。
literally, Elijah means, his name means,。
my God is Jehovah.。
Elijah is a Tishbite of Tishbe in Gilead.。
What does that mean?。
He literally came from obscurity.。
No one knew where Tishbe was.。
They knew where Gilead was,。
but they didn't know where Tishbe was,。
a small, little city, and so he came from obscurity,。
and somehow this prophet who came from obscurity。
got to the capital city of the northern kingdom of Israel。
in Samaria, and he gets a meeting with King Ahab,。
and he tells him, "Hey, look,。
"there's gonna be a drought.。
"There's gonna be a long, long drought,。
"and actually, that drought will last about three years."。
And he says, "Neither dew nor rain,。
"except by my word," and the motivation。
in the early parts of 17 is,。
"the God before whom I stand."。
That becomes a theme in his life,。
a theme in this chapter of Elijah's life.。
It's the God before whom I stand,。
and just like that, as he confronts Ahab,。
he gets ushered away to Cherith,。
a place where he is in solitude.。
He's fed by ravens, and he is also,。
drinks from the brook over there.。
Well, in time, he doesn't just stay there for a short time.。
He stays there for a long time,。
and now, later on, the brook dries up,。
and then now the second part of 17,。
God says to go pack up, leave Cherith, and go to Zarephath,。
and when he goes to Zarephath, he says,。
"Hey, look, I see you.。
"I know where you're gonna go."。
It reminds us all the time that God sees us。
wherever we're at, and God knows where we need to go.。
Sometimes we may not know where to go,。
but God knows where we need to go.。
He also knows what you need, 'cause he says,。
"When you get to Zarephath,。
"you're gonna meet a widow there," and he does.。
He meets a widow there, but the problem。
with this widow is she's collecting sticks,。
and she says, "I only have a little flour.。
"I have a little oil, and I'm collecting sticks。
"so I can go in and make some bread,。
"and then from that point on,。
"my son and I are gonna eat it and die."。
Really, that's who you want me to sit there?。
Yes, because sometimes God knows what we need,。
and what we need is different than what we think we need。
or what we want, but God knows what we need.。
Along the way, just like the story with the widow,。
we're gonna have to overcome first impressions。
or expectations.。
We're gonna have to overcome physical impossibilities.。
It's literally a widow who is poor,。
who's gonna feed him, who thinks she's gonna die。
because she only has a little flour and a little oil,。
but somehow God makes that oil and that flour。
just keep going and going and going,。
but yet at the same time, this is the last story。
that we looked at when I was last here.。
Sometime later, as he stays with the widow,。
the widow's son dies, and the widow blames Elijah,。
"That you brought this upon my family."。
Elijah grabs the son, he brings it, and there we see,。
we looked at Elijah's prayer to the Lord,。
a genuine prayer where he wrestles with the Lord。
because he doesn't know what happened.。
He sits there and he yearns and he prays。
in a genuine fashion, the fashion that God wants us。
to wrestle with him in our own prayer life.。
He prays the impossible, but he also knew。
that God could say no.。
That's what it means to walk with the Lord.。
There is a deep relationship that you have。
with your prayer life.。
It's not just sitting there in your prayer。
and just asking God to provide all the things。
that you want, but you're wrestling.。
There's a natural, there is a genuine relationship。
with the Lord, and God chooses to heal the son.。
And I love what verse 24 and 17 tells us.。
Now I know that you are a man of God,。
and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth.。
She never says to him, "Now I know that you are。
"a great man, now I know that you are a powerful man."。
That's not what she says to him.。
She says, "Now I know that you are a man of God,。
"and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth."。
Because everything that Elijah does in 17,。
and we're gonna see it in 18, is as if he is a servant。
and a steward of what God has given him.。
And that's what a servant does.。
He gives light, he gives credit to his master.。
I know that you are a man of God.。
We talked about the theory behind Hebrews 11.。
Some of you guys who may not be familiar with Hebrews 11。
is the Hall of Faith.。
It talks about all these Old Testament characters,。
and you know who is not mentioned in the Hall of Faith?。
Elijah is never mentioned by name.。
There is one verse that does describe Elijah.。
It's this, in verse 35 of Hebrews 11,。
"Women receive back their dead by resurrection."。
One of the things that we talked about。
when we were last here is why in the world,。
in the Hall of Faith, Elijah plays such an important role。
that he was never listed in the Hall of Faith.。
Now, I do wonder if the writer of Hebrews,。
in order to honor Elijah, never mentions who Elijah is,。
but rather what he does.。
Because Elijah was never about himself,。
but always about being a steward,。
always being a spouse, servant,。
always giving credit to what God is doing.。
Which leads us today to the confrontation in Mount Carmel。
in 1 Kings 18.。
And there today, we're gonna look at five questions。
that emerges from these in this chapter,。
as we look at 1 Kings 18.。
And let me read it to you.。
It's gonna be a long one,。
so we're gonna just go on little different passages。
in different verses, and try to get through it。
as soon as we can in the next 20 minutes.。
18, verse one.。
After many days, the word of the Lord came to Elijah.。
In the third year, saying, "Go, show yourself to Ahab.。
"It's been three long years of this drought,。
"and I will send rain upon the earth."。
So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab.。
Now, the famine was severe in Samaria,。
the capital city of the northern kingdom.。
And Ahab called Obadiah, who was literally the chief of staff。
over Ahab's kingdom, and called Ahab,。
who was over the household.。
Now, Ahab was feared the Lord greatly.。
And when Jezebel, Queen Jezebel,。
cut off the prophets of the Lord,。
Obadiah took 100 prophets and hid them by fifties。
in a cave, and fed them with bread and water.。
Let's go to verse 11.。
Obadiah now says to Elijah,。
"And now you say," Obadiah says to Elijah,。
"Go tell your Lord.。
"Behold, Elijah is here.。
"And as soon as I have gone from you, Elijah,。
"the spirit of the Lord will cure you.。
"I know not where."。
Because he literally went from Samaria。
to Cherith and Zarephath, and this entire time,。
they're all looking for him, but they never found him.。
And so they're always wondering。
where this guy disappeared to.。
And so when I come and tell Ahab,。
and he cannot find you again,。
you know what he's gonna do?。
He's gonna kill me.。
"Although I, your servant,。
"have feared the Lord from my youth."。
And Elijah says, "As the Lord of hosts lives,。
"before whom I stand."。
Same theme as in the beginning of chapter seven,。
"Before whom I stand."。
That is a constant theme of Elijah's life.。
"I will surely show myself to him today."。
So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him,。
and Ahab went to meet Elijah.。
When Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him,。
"Is it you, you troubler of Israel?"。
Verse 18, pay attention to this.。
"And he answered, 'I have not troubled Israel,。
"but you have, in your father's house,。
"because you have abandoned the commandments of the Lord。
"and followed the bells.。
"Now therefore send and gather all Israel to me。
"at Mount Carmel and the 450 prophets of Baal。
"and the 400 prophets of Asherah,。
"total of 850 people who eat at Jezebel's table."。
So Ahab sent to all the people of Israel in verse 20。
and gathered the prophets together at Mount Carmel.。
And Elijah came near to all the people and says,。
"How long will you go limping。
"between two different opinions?"。
First question that we see。
comes in this very verse that I just read.。
"How long will you be limping。
"between two different opinions?"。
The first question that emerges, I ask you,。
"Are you limping through your faith?"。
That's the first question that emerges.。
Are you limping through your faith?。
Three characters and three perspectives arise.。
There's a character Ahab, as we see in chapter 18.。
Ahab, we don't even know where his faith journey is,。
how he got out to worshiping Baal, all of that stuff.。
We have an idea it really is through the influence。
of Queen Jezebel.。
Ahab, out of the 19 kings in the northern kingdom,。
they said Ahab was probably the worst.。
Queen Jezebel actually ends up being the main villain,。
the main person who disrupts everything.。
She was the worst of even all of the kings.。
Now, at the same time, we do have some idea。
that at one point or another, Ahab was following the Lord.。
Here's why.。
When Ahab dies, his two sons take over.。
His two sons, the first son is,。
I'm gonna butcher this, so I've been trying to practice this。
for the whole weekend, I still butcher it.。
Ahaziah, all right?。
Ahaziah is one of the boys.。
His name literally means "owned by Jehovah."。
Interesting, "owned by Jehovah"。
is what his first name's son means.。
The next one is Jerhoram,。
which means "Jehovah is exalted."。
So why in the world are your kids' name,。
it means "owned by Jehovah" and "Jehovah is exalted,"。
if at one point or another, you weren't following the Lord?。
And somehow or another, Queen Jezebel, who you married,。
really wanted to make Baal the state religion,。
and as a result, suddenly, all the prophets were killed,。
and now there's 450 prophets of Baal,。
400 prophets for Asherah.。
There's also Obadiah, the next character that we see.。
Obadiah is the chief of staff, as we mentioned.。
He's the one who oversees the entire household.。
He's the one, when Jezebel was trying to kill。
the 100 prophets, he rescues 50 and puts 50 in each cave,。
total of 100.。
Well, but this time, he is scared of Ahab.。
When he confronts Elijah, he says,。
"Hey, look, if you send to me and Ahab can't find me,。
"he's gonna kill me."。
And then you have the third folks.。
Those are the Israelites.。
The Israelites were also scared of Ahab and Queen Jezebel.。
But then also, it's been a long three years, hasn't it?。
The drought has taken for three years.。
God has not responded in those droughts.。
And probably the Israelites says,。
"Hey, look, if our God doesn't respond,。
"then let's give Baal a try.。
"Let's give the God of fertility,。
"the God of harvest a try.。
"What can we lose?。
"Our God's not paying attention to us as well, too."。
When we allow our fear, our pursuit of other things。
become our focus, we find ourselves limping。
through our faith.。
When we allow our fear, when we allow our pursuit。
of other things become our focus,。
we find ourselves limping along。
and limping through our faith.。
I'm not sure for some of you guys who are listening。
on screen or those who are sitting here,。
have you ever been canoeing before?。
Canoeing is fun and you're constantly going downstream.。
It is hard to canoe upstream.。
You're constantly going downstream.。
There is a downward pull on all of our lives。
as Christ followers to pull us downstream.。
There is a downward stream, there is a downward pull。
on all of our lives to pull us downstream,。
to affect our faith and to allow us。
to live in a state of limbo.。
It's like an ocean current as well, too.。
You ever sit in an ocean current?。
If you ever sat in an ocean current for 30 minutes,。
you just sit on the sand right near the edge。
where the ocean's coming.。
If you weren't paying attention 30 minutes later,。
where would you have gone?。
A different place because the ocean current。
would have moved you from one place to another。
and you would have never known.。
In our work culture today,。
here's a term that also describes where we are.。
If you are working right now,。
Harvard Business Review calls this the quiet quit.。
It's not the great resignation, it's the quiet quit.。
I'm not sure if you ever heard that term as well, too.。
Post-COVID, it's been very, very popular.。
So literally, a lot of times,。
workers in corporations realize that I hate my job,。
I hate my boss, I don't like what I'm doing,。
but until I find a new job, I'm not gonna quit.。
I'm just gonna sit here and collect a paycheck,。
do minimally what I have to do,。
and that is the quiet quit.。
It has affected so many corporations at this time.。
I'm not gonna be dumb enough to quit。
and not get the paycheck, but I will get the paycheck.。
I will do as minimal as I can.。
You tell me what to do, I will do it.。
I am not gonna go above and beyond.。
I am not gonna do anything more,。
and anything that you ask me that's not part of my job,。
I'm not going to do it.。
My whole goal is to collect the paycheck.。
I wonder how many of us approach。
the Christian life like this,。
that we approach it with this quiet quit mentality,。
where we sit there and we sit and we said,。
"Hey, look, we're gonna go through the routines.。
"We're gonna come on Sunday, maybe once in a while,。
"if I have nothing to do,。
"I will attend a fellowship or a Bible study,。
"but I'm not gonna go above and beyond."。
I bet you too many of us will probably not sit there。
and say, "We're gonna give up Christianity.。
"God is wrong, I don't believe it.。
"Now, I don't think we're gonna go that far."。
But we go in a state of what we call lukewarmness,。
where we sit there, we go through the motions,。
we attend service, and then we're done,。
and we say we're still a Christian。
and we attend the church and we're religious.。
I bet you that's where many of us are.。
That is the quiet quit, that is the lukewarmness。
that Revelation warns us about.。
Now, here's a quick question is,。
why do we end up in that place?。
What are the motives that causes us to go there?。
Let me actually go through some of those things.。
Maybe sometimes what causes us to go through the motions。
is churches become a routine.。
Maybe some of us have grown up in the church。
all our lives and all that other stuff,。
and ever since we're younger, a lot of times,。
we've gone through the same thing.。
We've lost that personal attraction,。
we've lost that personal motivation,。
and it has become a routine.。
Maybe for some of us,。
we've grown disenchanted by the church.。
We've grown frustrated by the church.。
Christianity is not seen in a very good light these days.。
Because of politics, because of race,。
because of how pastors act or ministry leaders act,。
we're not always seen.。
We're seen by the world as haters.。
We don't love other people, we don't care about other people,。
and we all make it about building our own empires.。
Christianity today is not seen in a positive light,。
and that's why sometimes you get frustrated。
and disenchanted by the church.。
It's not routine, we're disenchanted.。
Maybe a lot of times you're just distracted。
by what the world has to offer.。
And you're sitting there, "Hey, look,。
"I'll do this church thing, I'll come in,。
"but at the same time, I gotta worry about money,。
"I gotta worry about career,。
"I gotta worry about all these things.。
"But I'll come on Sundays, I'll give you that."。
And we live in a state of going through the routines.。
We live in the state。
of what Revelation's called being lukewarm.。
For us as Christians, let me give you。
a couple of signs of being lukewarm.。
Let me give you a couple fast ones。
and see if any of these applies to you.。
Signs of being lukewarm,。
you have an inconsistent and diminished prayer life.。
You struggle with having regular communications.。
You struggle with genuine engagement with the Lord.。
If you do pray, it's, "Lord," you go through rhythms。
and you have a script or everything like that,。
but you've failed like what Elijah said,。
of wrestling with the Lord, crying out to the Lord,。
talking with the Lord.。
An inconsistent and diminished prayer life.。
Signs of being lukewarm also shows。
that you have a worldly mindset and values.。
You sit there and say, "Lord, I totally understand。
"what you're saying, but Lord,。
"look at all these different things.。
"Look at the need to have money and power and goals。
"and all of these different things."。
I literally was talking to a woman。
who lives in Australia, in Perth, Australia,。
and she works at Deloitte,。
and she's literally gonna be a partner over at Deloitte,。
but she works from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.。
every single day in Australia.。
And she's a Chinese-Indonesian,。
and she says to me, "Tommy, I'm trying to figure out。
"that as I get promoted to be partner,。
"how do I still maintain a vibrancy。
"in my walk with the Lord versus getting caught up?。
"I'm already working from 8 a.m. to 9, 10 p.m.。
"How do I continue to maintain a diligent,。
"a godly mindset, and never about going up。
"the corporate ladder?。
"What does it mean to have a worldly mindset and values?"。
We find ourselves struggling with all of that.。
Signs of being lukewarm is we neglect。
our spiritual disciplines, the importance of Bible reading,。
meditation, fasting, serving others.。
Other signs, lack of convictions and moral compromise。
about our character, about doing what is right,。
about humility, because the things of God matters to us.。
And when we struggle with lukewarmness,。
ah, yeah, sure, sure, fine.。
But what it means to serve others,。
to die to ourselves every single day,。
because when you're a motivated Christian,。
you're constantly asking those questions。
each and every single day.。
When we struggle with lukewarmness, we struggle.。
We have a lack of Christian community,。
because we just don't see the importance of that anymore.。
We see ourselves a lot of times just sitting there,。
and we don't need to share,。
we don't need to do anything accountable,。
we just do whatever we want.。
We don't see the importance of fellowship,。
of people holding us accountable.。
And for those who are sitting on the screens at home,。
and for those who are outside in the country,。
I totally understand, but for those who are in Chicago。
sitting there, you are the one。
that may be tempted to do this,。
'cause you're sitting at home and says,。
I will just watch, I'll attend virtual church,。
but I don't need any community,。
'cause I don't need anymore,。
I don't need anyone accountable.。
When we live in a state of lukewarmness,。
when we're sitting there stuck,。
stuck in being lukewarm,。
and limping along, we don't see the need for community.。
Are you stuck, are you limping along in your faith?。
And the second thing it tells us。
in terms of the verse is this,。
if the Lord is God, follow him,。
but if it is Baal, then follow him.。
Make a choice, make a decision.。
Will my gods accomplish what I want them to do?。
Because if it is not fully focused on our God。
and our Savior, we all have other gods.。
Now I'm saying that you have statues。
and everything like that,。
but the gospel and the Bible tells us。
that we have gods or we have built altars。
in our hearts that distract us away。
from focusing on one true God.。
For the Israelites at that time,。
Baal was the god of power and sexual potency.。
Asherah was a god of fertility,。
and for them, the Israelites,。
and all the people in Israel,。
and King Ahab himself was so focused。
on sex, power, harvest, wealth,。
that became their god.。
So if God is not your god,。
then what are the gods that you're chasing?。
If God is not your god,。
then is it wealth that you're chasing?。
Is it family that you're chasing?。
Is it relationships that you're chasing?。
Is it goals or dreams or comfort that you're chasing?。
And if it is, then you better take a hard look。
and ask yourself, if I chase after those things,。
will my god, will that god,。
money, wealth, family, relationship,。
will that god accomplish what I want them to do?。
And if the answer is yes in your mind,。
then there's no need for you to be here listening at all,。
because you've made up your mind,。
so no matter what I say, it won't matter to you.。
But you better make sure that will accomplish。
what you need them to do.。
Have you ever realized that some of the most unhappy people。
in life are wealthy people?。
And many wealthy people who spent their entire life。
just attaining and getting wealthy。
and finally they get to the end of it,。
and they have all the money that they want,。
they're lonely and they're realizing this is it?。
You have to ask yourself,。
will that god lead me to where I want to be?。
Now, if the answer is no,。
and you want to begin to explore the true god。
in the form of God and Jesus Christ,。
and see where that path leads you,。
then it goes to the third thing。
that we're gonna look at the question.。
If the Lord is God, follow him.。
But if thou, then follow him.。
And the last part of 21,。
and the people did not answer him a word.。
Third question.。
If you're stuck and you're looking through your faith,。
and you realize that the god that I'm chasing。
is not gonna get me to where I want to be,。
and I want to begin to understand what the true God。
or the form of Jesus Christ and God helps me to do,。
are you going to do anything about it?。
What are you gonna do?。
What steps are you gonna take to do it?。
If you realize, hey, look, the god that I'm pursuing,。
the money and all that stuff, that's not the answer.。
Lord, I want to pursue you.。
What are you going to do about it?。
Because a lot of times, too often,。
we sit there, when we're sitting there and lukewarm,。
we know that we should be doing something about it.。
We just don't have the motivation to push ourselves。
to do it, and that's where we continue to get stuck.。
I love what my friend Dave Evans,。
he's a professor at Stanford, says.。
And he says, "These days, meaning is the new money."。
We're not at a place where people are motivated。
by earning more money and all that other stuff,。
that people in this generation。
want meaning in their life.。
And if meaning is not found in money or power。
or relationship, and it's found in the true God。
in what scripture calls us, as we pursue God,。
we will find meaning, what are you going to do about it?。
Many of you guys may not be familiar with basketball,。
but you will understand this story.。
Many of you guys did see the last dance with Michael Jordan.。
And when I say Michael Jordan and Chicago Bulls,。
all of you guys are familiar with it.。
They had six championships.。
They were one of the greatest team。
in NBA basketball history.。
They had the first three championships,。
and then Michael Jordan retired,。
and then he came back for the last three championships.。
There was an interview, the former coach,。
Phil Jackson, did on a recent podcast I was listening to.。
I was very, it just caught my attention.。
Phil Jackson says to the team, he says,。
"When Michael came in, we lost in the championship,。
"the Eastern Conference Championship.。
"And then the following year, we all came back.。
"And I brought the team together,。
"and at that point in time, we brought in this player,。
"little crazy, his name was Dennis Rodman.。
"He was a little nuts, but we brought him to the team,。
"and a lot of people did not like him.。
"So I brought the team together。
"right before the season began.。
"And I said to the team,。
"how bad do you want to win this championship?。
"Because if you want to win this championship,。
"you're gonna have to do something about it.。
"And if you want to win this championship,。
"you're gonna have to accept people。
"who are different than you to be part of this team."。
And Phil Jackson says, I pointed to Dennis Rodman,。
and says, "You see this guy?。
"Dennis over here is a little strange.。
"Dennis over here will probably go to Las Vegas。
"sometime during the season.。
"Dennis over here will probably not show up at practice,。
"and he'll just do his own thing.。
"But Dennis over here promised that at game time,。
"he will be here at every single game。
"and play his tail off to help you win the game.。
"Can you accept someone different than you。
"to be part of the team?。
"Because you have to do that。
"if you want to win the championship."。
So for you and I as well, too,。
is if the money, the power, the family,。
the relationships mean nothing,。
and you're sitting there and says,。
"That's not gonna give me fulfillment or meaning.。
"And pursuing God is gonna give me the meaning."。
And you're willing to try that?。
What are you gonna do to pursue him?。
What changes are you gonna do?。
For the people, they cannot give him an answer.。
What about you?。
Elijah said to the people,。
"I, even I, only am left to profit the Lord.。
"But by all his profits are 450 men," in verse 22.。
"Let two bulls be given to us。
"and let them choose one bull for themselves。
"and cut it in pieces and lay on the wood,。
"but put no fire on it.。
"And I will prepare the bull and lay on the wood。
"and put no fire to it.。
"And you call upon the name of your God,。
"and I will call upon the name of the Lord.。
"And the God who answers by fire, he is God."。
And all the people says, "It is well spoken.。
"We love that question, we love that."。
Let's go to verse 30.。
"Then Elijah said to all the people, 'Come near to me.'"。
Because now the bells are doing all this,。
nothing happens, right?。
They sit there and they call upon their gods。
and all that stuff, nothing happens.。
They start cutting themselves,。
they start dancing, nothing happens.。
And Elijah says, "It is now my turn."。
Verse 30, Elijah said to all the people,。
"Come near to me."。
And all the people came near to him,。
and he repaired the altar of the Lord。
that has been thrown down.。
Elijah took 12 stones,。
according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob,。
to whom the word of the Lord came saying,。
"Israel shall be your name."。
And with the stones, he built an altar。
in the name of the Lord.。
Couple of things,。
if you feel like you're limping your faith, number two,。
if you feel like your God。
is not gonna accomplish what you need,。
and you're willing to make a decision to change it,。
you're gonna have to repair and rebuild the altar.。
Repair and rebuild the altar.。
Let me quickly go through what that means,。
that when you and I repair and rebuild the altar。
in our lives, what we're saying is。
we put the priority back on God.。
God, you are, I am rebuilding the altar in my life。
so that it is dedicated to you.。
What does that tangibly mean?。
That means you're gonna have to reflect upon。
what expected my relationship with God.。
You're gonna have to look at some of the barriers。
that can and will affect my relationship with my God.。
You're gonna have to look at some of the issues。
in your heart.。
You're also gonna have to ask yourself,。
who has God made me to be?。
What gives me meaning in my life?。
And who do I need to help in my process?。
The altars in our life are the altars。
that God places in your heart.。
We can always fake actions.。
We can't fake what's in our hearts.。
In order to rebuild the altar in our life,。
you will have to ask yourself,。
where is the state of my heart?。
What barriers are in my heart?。
What are the barriers that are affecting。
my relation with God?。
What are the barriers that are killing,。
or the issues that are affecting my heart?。
Who has God made me to be?。
What gives me meaning in my life?。
And you're gonna have to tangibly do all of that.。
And he repairs the altar,。
and then he makes a trench above the altar。
as great as wood contain two seeds of seed.。
And Elijah put the wood in order。
and cut the bowl in pieces and laid it on the wood,。
and he says, "Fill four jars with water。
"and pour it on a burnt offering."。
And on the wood.。
And he says, "Do it a second time."。
And they did it a second time.。
And he says, "Do it a third time."。
And they did it a third time.。
And the water ran around the altar。
and filled the trench also with water.。
Here's my last point,。
and we're gonna look at Elijah's prayer.。
At the time of the offering of the oblation,。
Elijah the prophet came near and said,。
and here's Elijah's prayer,。
"O Lord God of Israel, Isaac and Israel,。
"let it be known this day that you are God in Israel。
"and that I am your servant。
"and that I have done all these things at your word.。
"Answer me, O Lord, answer me,。
"that this people may know that you, O Lord, are God。
"and that you have turned their hearts back."。
Fifth question, we've gone through four questions.。
Are you limping through your faith?。
And if you are, what are the certain gods。
in your life that you have?。
Do you know if those gods are gonna accomplish。
what you need, do what you want?。
And if it's not, what's your alternative?。
Is it found in the Lord your God, in Jesus Christ?。
Thirdly, if it is found in the Lord Christ,。
what are you gonna do about it?。
Then from that point of forth,。
how do you rebuild your altars?。
How do you repair your altars?。
And the last one, what does the prayer of Elijah teach me?。
Prayer of Elijah teaches me three things.。
O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel,。
let it be known this day that you are God in Israel.。
Prayer of Elijah teaches us that God is supreme.。
God is the God of Abraham, God is the God of Isaac,。
God is the God of Israel.。
Let it be known this day that you are God,。
you are the one true God.。
Second thing that the prayer of Elijah takes place。
is that I am your servant.。
It shows us our position in relation to God,。
that he is, we are his servant,。
and that I have done all these things at your word.。
And the last one, answer me, O Lord,。
answer me that this people may know that you, O Lord,。
are the God that you have turned their hearts back.。
Look at the key verse in this one。
as we wrap up this one too.。
Look at the key thing.。
It's not that, Lord, you're God and I am your servant,。
and force the people to turn back on him.。
No, no, no, no.。
Lord, work in it that you are the one。
that turns their hearts back to you.。
It is not the people turning their hearts.。
Lord, it is you who turns their heart back.。
Then the fire of the Lord fell。
and consumed the burnt offering,。
and the wood and the stones and the dust,。
and licked up the water that was in the trench.。
And when all the people saw it,。
they fell on their faces and said,。
the Lord, he is God, the Lord, he is God.。
What does this story remind you of?。
Does it remind you of the gospel?。
Does it remind you of the sacrifice of Jesus?。
That God could have easily punished all humanity。
because of their sin, and the judgment of sin,。
he could have literally leveled the fire。
and brought his entire judgment on the people.。
But he doesn't bring his judgment on the people.。
He brings his judgment on the sacrifice.。
And it is the sacrifice who takes the blunt of the flame.。
For us, as we look at the cross of Jesus,。
it is not humanity and those who have sinned。
that is the recipient of God's anger and God's judgment,。
but rather he sends Jesus who becomes the sacrifice,。
and he sacrifices the sacrifice.。
And through all that, through the sacrifice,。
it turns our hearts back to him.。
That's the gospel message.。
That's what the prayer of Elijah teaches us,。
a foreshadowing of Christ.。
Some of us here today may be stuck。
in limping through our faith.。
Some of us here may be wrestling through。
what are the true gods in our life.。
We may be living this state of mediocrity,。
of lukewarmness.。
We go through the flow, we go through the motions。
of coming to church, but there's things in our life。
that's tugging in our life.。
You're gonna have to make a decision.。
Who's gonna be the god of your life?。
And if Jesus is going to be the focal point,。
the god in your life, then you're gonna have。
to make a decision.。
What are you gonna do about it?。
Are you gonna repair and rebuild the altar in your life?。
Are you gonna sit there and reflect upon。
what God's meaning in your life,。
what God's purpose in your life is?。
Are you gonna look at some of the barriers in your heart?。
And are you gonna understand and reflect upon。
the road that God tells us through Elijah,。
that God is supreme in our life,。
that we are a servant of Christ,。
and it is the gospel that draws us over to him.。
That's what 1 Kings 18 teaches us.。
That it is the gospel, as God draws us to him,。
we are his servant.。
We are Elijah, continue to proclaim him as a servant.。
Let me pray.。
Father, thank you for your works.。
Thank you for the, man, the life of Elijah。
as we study so much in chapter 17 to 18.。
Thank you for how even through Elijah,。
you spoke and showed Jesus Christ through us,。
that you brought the sacrifice and your judgment。
was not placed on humanity, but placed on the sacrifice.。
And it is because of that sacrifice, we are drawn to you.。
May we continue to walk in your ways,。
especially those of us who are sitting right here,。
limping through our faith.。
In Christ we pray, amen.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
