Good morning family and welcome. I'm excited that we're here again together to open God's Word.。
And once again we're looking at the Kingdom Values found in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapter 7.。
And today is kind of a special day and an exciting day because we are finishing up this study of Kingdom Values.。
We're finishing up the study of the Sermon on the Mount.。
And we have been looking at it for a very long time now, for over a year.。
There is so much truth in this passage and so we've just been kind of going really slow verse by verse。
and mining those truths, digging those things out.。
And I'm excited that we've gotten this far. I appreciate you all for sticking with it.。
I know this has been a long study and if you've been watching this from the beginning。
then you've been in this passage of scripture for a long time.。
But it's really so good for us and has so much truth and so much that we've learned.。
I hope that on this journey of walking through this passage that you've really learned a lot of God's truth.。
It's been really transformative to my heart and to my life.。
And I pray that it's been transformative to your heart and to your life as well.。
But today we're going to finish it up.。
We're in the last couple verses of Matthew chapter 7 verses 28 and 29.。
So let's read these verses together and consider what they're saying to us this morning.。
This is Matthew 7 verses 28 and 29. It says this,。
"And when Jesus finished these things, the crowds were astonished at his teaching.。
For he was teaching them as one who had authority and not as their scribes."。
Now this is just kind of a little coda tacked onto the end of the Sermon on the Mount.。
It doesn't seem like it's really that significant, these two verses.。
But there actually is a lot of significant truth here that I want us to consider today.。
What does it mean when it says that Jesus was teaching them as one who had authority and not as their scribes?。
In verse 28 we see that it's pretty clear that whatever way Jesus was teaching,。
it was really revolutionary to his listeners, to the people who were listening.。
Verse 28 says they were astonished at his teaching.。
They couldn't believe what they were hearing.。
And verse 29 tells us that what was astonishing to them was the authority that he taught with.。
The authority that he taught with.。
And what was that referring to?。
Well, in Jesus' day and in his time, the scribes were people who knew the Scripture very well.。
The Pharisees, many of them would have been scribes as well.。
They were scholars of the Scripture and of the Old Testament Scripture.。
And not just of the Scripture, but of all of the rabbinical teachings that they practiced in Judaism along with the Scripture.。
And so the scribes were these people who were scholars that really knew the Bible,。
knew all these other rabbinical teachings, knew all this minutiae and these obscure facts about the meaning and all these things like that.。
And so these scribes were people who taught and who expressed that scholarship to others in the synagogues.。
And people were used to hearing this type of teaching.。
But Jesus was teaching in a way that was very, very different.。
I think what we see in this passage is that Jesus was teaching different because Jesus was teaching on his own authority,。
while the scribes taught based on scholarship.。
The scribes taught in a way that's very similar to the way that we often teach today the Bible, the New Testament and the Old Testament.。
By looking at the context, by looking at the history, by looking at what other people have said about the passage and how they've interpreted it,。
and trying to determine what the meaning of the passage is.。
That's how the scribes taught.。
They taught based upon their scholarship, based upon their knowledge, based upon the things they had read,。
based upon the things that they had been taught by others, based upon the knowledge that they had gained in their lifetime of study.。
And there's nothing wrong with that.。
But Jesus was teaching in a very different way.。
Jesus was not teaching based upon his scholarship.。
Jesus was teaching based upon his own authority.。
We actually see this in Matthew chapter 5, in verses 21 and 22 and 27, where Jesus says, "You have heard this.。
You've been taught this.。
You've been told that it was this way.。
But I say to you..."。
That's an example of what we're talking about here.。
Jesus was saying, "You've been taught by the scribes, by the scholars, by the people who say they understand the scripture,。
and they've taught you that things are like this, or that obeying God is like this, a relationship to God is like this.。
But I am telling you that it's different.。
I am telling you, based upon my own authority, that relationship to God is different than you think,。
or relationship to God is different than what you've heard, or relationship to God is different than what you've been told."。
Jesus was teaching on his own authority.。
Now, how is it that Jesus could speak with this authority?。
And that was what was so astonishing to the people that were listening.。
They were like, "I can't believe this guy, a carpenter from Nazareth,。
in Galilee, in this rural, unheard of place, is teaching with this kind of authority."。
Obviously, there was clear, deep truth and wisdom in what Jesus was saying.。
And Jesus was able to really incisively and perceptively really cut through a lot of the cultural trappings。
and all the other things that were so confusing that the scholars got caught up in.。
They argued about all the minutiae, just like scholars today argue about all the minutiae of different things.。
And Jesus was able to cut through that and to speak clearly and succinctly to the issues.。
So I think that was a part of what people were astonished at.。
But they were also astonished at the fact that Jesus was not only teaching with amazing wisdom and amazing perception。
and amazing understanding of God's truth, but he was saying, "Hey, believe this because I'm telling you."。
He was calling them to believe it based on his own authority.。
And that was just mind-blowing. It was just astonishing.。
How could he do that? How could he claim to know that much about God and about relationship to God?。
How could he claim to know that much about the truth? How could he claim to know that much?。
And that's what was astonishing to the people.。
And that's a question that I want us to examine today for us as well.。
How do we know that Jesus was able to speak with such authority?。
How do we know that all these things he's saying in the Sermon on the Mountain, throughout the Gospels, really are right and true?。
And first, I want us to consider this, that Jesus speaks with authority because he is the Word of God,。
or the truth of God, or the knowledge of God. That's who Jesus is.。
Let's look at the book of John, the very beginning of the book of John.。
In chapter 1, verse 1, we'll read the first five verses. It says this,。
"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.。
He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him,。
and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life,。
and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it."。
Now that first verse says, "In the beginning was the Word."。
And in the original language, that word is "logos," and it's this word that is talking about the knowledge, the truth of God.。
And we know from Scripture that God's knowledge encompasses everything. God knows everything in the universe.。
And then as this passage goes on, it says, "The Word was God," that that knowledge, that the truth of God,。
is a part of God's character, it's a part of who he is. And then it says, "And the Word was God."。
And then it says, "He was in the beginning with God." So we start to see that the Word is embodied in the Godhead.。
It's embodied in a person. And as we read on through this passage, we start to see that the Word,。
the knowledge of God, the truth of God, is embodied in the person of Jesus Christ.。
"All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made."。
That tells us about the deity of Christ. "In him was life, and that life was the light of men."。
And as you go on and read in John 1, it becomes clear that it is talking about Jesus,。
the one who came to earth to be our Savior. Jesus is the embodiment of truth.。
Jesus is the embodiment of God's wisdom, of God's knowledge, of God's understanding.。
Jesus is the embodiment of those things. All of the knowledge and wisdom and truth of God,。
which is all of the knowledge and wisdom and truth in the universe, because God is omniscient. He knows all.。
It's all wrapped up and embodied and personified in Jesus Christ. The scripture is clear about that.。
And so when Jesus began to speak about truth and wisdom and knowledge,。
he knew exactly what he was talking about because it was him.。
That's a very difficult thing for us to understand because we think of truth and wisdom and knowledge。
and those types of things as being outside of ourselves, as being some type of standard that。
that we may compare something to, but not as being a part of us. And that is true for us as human beings。
because we are imperfect and our knowledge is limited. And there are many things that we do not。
know and many things that we do not understand in many areas where we do not have wisdom.。
But that is not true of God. God is different than us. God is completely beyond us in every way.。
God is in a class by himself. And God ultimately is the standard of righteousness and holiness and goodness.。
God himself is the standard. How do we know what goodness is? We know that because God has revealed。
to us who he is. He has revealed his character to us. And we know goodness because we know God.。
And as we know God more, we begin to understand more of what goodness truly is. How do we know。
what righteousness is or what holiness is? How do we know what pleases God and what's the right。
way for us to live and what's the right way for us to treat other people? How do we know what。
justice is? How do we know those things? Do we define them ourselves? Do we try to imagine what。
we think would be best in the world or what we think would be a standard of right or what we。
think would be holy or sacred? No, those things are defined by God himself and by his character.。
Who he is defines to us what is right, what is just, what is holy, what is sacred, what is sinful and。
evil and wrong and off limits. All of those things are defined by God. And God personifies those good。
things, those good attributes of his character in perfection. God is perfectly holy. God is。
perfectly just. God is perfectly righteous. God is perfectly good. He personifies those things。
completely in perfection. And in that way, God is the standard of what those things are in our lives。
and in the universe. God's the standard of goodness, righteousness, holiness, justice, everything else.。
Jesus being fully God was the standard of righteousness and of holiness and of truth.。
And so when Jesus began to talk about these things, he knew what he was talking about。
because this was him. This was who he was. This was his character. To begin to speak about the。
values of the kingdom was to begin to speak about his own character. Jesus was the earthly。
personification of these things. And so when he said in verse 21 and verse 27, "Listen, I know。
you've heard from other people that this is what it looks like to be right with God, or this is。
what God wants, or this is what righteousness looks like, but I'm telling you something different."。
He knew exactly what he was talking about and he meant exactly what he said because he was。
the personification of those values of that goodness, of that righteousness, of that holiness.。
Jesus spoke with this authority and Jesus still in our day speaks with this authority because he。
is the word of God. He is the truth of God. He is the wisdom and the knowledge of God,。
personified and embodied in human form.。
Jesus was also able to speak with authority because he is perfect relationship with God.。
That's one of the huge things in the Sermon on the Mount that I hope you did not miss. I talked。
about it over and over again, is that Jesus is really pointing us towards relationship with God。
the Father. Throughout the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus repeatedly contrasts the emptiness of just。
external religious conformance with the vibrancy of living in relationship with the God who made。
us and loves us. And Jesus makes it clear that what God desires is relationship with us. That's。
what God desires between us and him. God created us for relationship with him, for a healthy and。
right relationship. And that's what he wants. And God is not trying to get us to just simply fall。
into a system of religious conformance and where we do external things. We do outward observances。
to try to make it look like we're a good person. God wants us to know him from our hearts and to。
love him from our hearts and to live rightly because we are full of love for him. And Jesus。
just repeatedly emphasizes that in the Sermon on the Mount. He repeatedly draws that contrast. He。
repeatedly talks about how dangerous hypocrisy is and how dangerous empty religion is and how。
dangerous it is to try to please God in other ways. And he repeatedly calls us back to relationship。
with God and the importance of relationship with God. And again, Jesus could speak with authority。
about this because who better to teach us about relationship with God the Father than the one who。
has a perfect relationship with God the Father. In the book of John, Jesus speaks about this in。
different places. In John chapter 10, verse 30, he says, "I and the Father are one." He's saying。
that he and the Father agree in every way. Their will is totally aligned. And we know the doctrine。
of the Trinity, it's an amazing and beautiful doctrine. It's difficult for us to comprehend。
sometimes, but God is one God in three persons. And so even though Jesus is a separate person。
from God the Father, he is one with God the Father in every way. They are aligned in every way and。
their desires are the same in every way and their activity is the same in every way and they are。
always in agreement. John 14, 9, it says, "Jesus said to him, 'Have I been with you so long and。
you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father.'" Again, Jesus is showing。
his disciples, his followers that he is one with the Father, that they are always in perfect。
agreement. Their relationship has no distance. It has no conflict. It has no tension. There is。
never a time where Jesus is headed in one direction and God the Father is headed in the other direction.。
They are always in agreement. Jesus lives constantly in perfect relationship with God the。
Father. And so when Jesus begins to speak about how we can have right relationship with God in。
the Sermon on the Mount, he speaks with authority because he knows exactly what that is and he knows。
exactly how to achieve it. And Jesus spends so much time in the Sermon on the Mount speaking about。
that, how we can have right relationship with God. It is one of the major themes of the Sermon.。
And as I said, I hope you have not missed that as we have gone through it. The Sermon on the Mount,。
Jesus is calling you into a loving relationship with God that manifests itself in the values of。
the kingdom and you living your life. But that is what it is about. It is about a relationship。
that Jesus is inviting you into. And that brings us to the last thing I want us to consider,。
which is that Jesus is speaking with authority because he is the way to God. If one of the major。
themes of the Sermon on the Mount is this relationship with God and how to walk in。
relationship with God instead of just trying to merely conform to external religious observances,。
then one of the big questions that that leaves us with is how does that relationship。
take place? How do we know the way? Jesus himself is the way. In the Sermon on the Mount,。
Jesus has laid out this striking and amazing vision of the kingdom of God. And Jesus has。
described the good life for us. He has described the good life for us as humans by articulating。
the values of the kingdom. He said, look, if you want to live a life that is full of fulfillment。
and joy and peace and all of these beautiful things that you desire, the shalom that you desire,。
then you need to live out the values of the kingdom. And if you do so, you'll be living in。
right relationship with the creator God who made you and in right relationship with the rest of the。
human beings around you. Jesus is painting this beautiful picture for us throughout the Sermon on。
the Mount. He's described it for us. But the truth that he's also been very honest with us about is。
that there is no way to the kingdom of God through our own effort or through our own merit. The。
kingdom of God is not accessible to any of us humans by our own effort or our own merit. And。
living out these beautiful values of the kingdom that Jesus has described for us, living out the。
good life and experiencing shalom in the way that we want is not accessible to any of us humans by。
our own effort or merit. Jesus is the only way to right relationship with God and right relationship。
with other humans in our world. And Jesus himself is the only way to the kingdom of God. We talked。
about what the kingdom of God is at the beginning of this study, that the kingdom of God is both the。
future kingdom of heaven, where it will be fully manifested, where there will be no crime, where。
there will be no hatred, where there will be no sin, no lying, no disease, no COVID. All of those。
things will be completely eradicated in heaven because the kingdom of God will be fully manifested.。
And that is the future kingdom of God. And there is no way to the future kingdom of God in heaven。
apart from Jesus Christ. There's no way to get there based upon our own efforts or our own merit.。
But there's also the present kingdom of God, whereby believers in Jesus, the subjects of the。
kingdom, those who have put their trust in Christ can manifest the kingdom here on earth as they。
submit to the rule and reign of God. And as they submit to the rule and reign of God in their own。
lives, they start to live out the values of the kingdom. And that is the present manifestation。
of the kingdom of God, even though it's not complete and full on earth, because there will。
always be brokenness, there will always be sin. We can be a part of the present manifestation of。
the kingdom of God, but the present manifestation of the kingdom of God, again, is only accessible。
through Jesus. There is no way for us to experience that through our own effort or through our own。
merit. We can't try hard enough to live out the values of the kingdom. We can't just try harder。
and learn to live out the beatitudes through our own effort or through trying to achieve something。
or through our attainments or through our accomplishments or through our education or。
through any other source. We can't buy it. Remember the book of Acts, the story of the man who tried。
to buy the gift of the Holy Spirit. We can't purchase it with money. We can't trade for it。
with anything we have. It's only through Christ. And the future kingdom of God is the same way.。
We can't purchase it. We can't earn it. We can't get there by trying hard enough. It's only through。
Christ. And Jesus is so clear about that. Jesus is the only way to healing and shalom in our broken。
world. We live in such a broken world. We live in such a hurting world and we desire healing. And。
that's good. You know, if you don't desire healing in our world after the past couple of years that。
we've been through, then you need to examine your heart and see if you're still alive and healthy.。
Because we have seen so much brokenness over the past few years. We've seen disease. We've。
seen COVID that has just taken so many lives and made so many people sick. And we've seen economic。
issues and troubles and struggles. We've seen all types of racial tensions and racism on display and。
evil things on display. We've seen so many people harmed. We've seen political turmoil. We've seen。
political unrest and oppression around the world and people being silenced and all these terrible。
things going on. Our world is deeply broken. And it's only right that as human beings, much less。
as Christians, that we should desire healing and shalom. And we should want to see things fixed and。
want to see peace and want to see wholeness and want to see health and want to see fullness in。
our world. Our heart should cry out for that. But here's the thing, as our hearts cry out for that,。
we have to see that the only way to experience it is through Christ. Every other avenue that we try。
to follow in order to experience those things on our own will end up falling short. Every road that。
we go down trying to experience healing and shalom on our own apart from Christ will end up being a。
dead end. We will not experience these things apart from Jesus. Jesus is the only way to healing and。
shalom. Jesus is the only way to the future kingdom of heaven. Jesus is the only way to the present。
manifestation of the kingdom of heaven here on earth in our lives. And Jesus is the only way。
to the beatitudes. If we want to live out the things that he talked about, being poor in spirit,。
being meek, being pure of heart, hungry and thirsty after righteousness, being a peacemaker,。
all of those beautiful things, being able to be strong and persevere during times of persecution。
and difficulty, all that stuff, that's only going to happen through Jesus. Any other pathway we'll。
try to find will not lead us there. And ultimately those other pathways will lead us to pain and to。
harm and to self-destruction. Jesus is the only way. Remember John 14, 6, Jesus said this explicitly。
to us. He said, "I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except。
through me." And that's why Jesus could speak with authority because he knew he was the way to God.。
He didn't have to say, "Well, I think if you really dig into some of the history of this,。
or if you really examine the words here, I think it's saying that this is the way to heaven." No,。
Jesus already knew the way to heaven because he was the way to heaven. Jesus, one with the Father,。
incarnated, came down and took on human flesh in order to show us the way. And how did he do that?。
He did that by living a perfect sinless life. He never sinned. He was tempted in every way,。
just like we are, to sin. He was hurt. He was rejected. He was spit upon. He was mistreated.。
He went through everything that we have experienced, but Jesus never sinned in any of it.。
And at the end of his life, he chose to give his life for us, to lay his life down as a sacrifice。
in our place, taking on himself the punishment that we deserve because of our sins, because of。
all the stuff that we've done, all the way that we've mistreated everybody else, and all the。
self-destructive stuff we've done, and all the hateful things that we've done, and all the lies。
we've told, and all that. Jesus took that on himself, made himself our substitute. He took。
the penalty of sin and bore the wrath of God in our place so that because of what he did,。
we could be forgiven and we could have access to relationship with God. We could have access to the。
love of the creator God who made us. We could have access to restoration, to right relationship that。
had been broken in the beginning because of our own sin. It was our fault that we broke up in。
the first place. But God loved us and came to us in love and sent Jesus in order to open the door。
to heaven, in order to open the way for us to know God and have right relationship with him.。
And that's the beauty of the gospel, but it's also the beauty that we see here in the Sermon。
on the Mount. The Bible is clear that this happens by grace and through faith, that we don't have to。
do anything, we can't do anything to try to earn it or to try to achieve it. We simply have to trust。
in Jesus that he has done that for us and that he is great enough and good enough to forgive our。
sins. And we ask him to come into our heart and to become the Lord and leader of our life and to。
begin to follow him in our life and to begin to seek to submit our lives to the rule and reign of。
God to the values of the kingdom. And as we do that, by God's grace, we begin to live out these。
values that we've been talking about over the last year. We begin to become so saturated with。
the work that Jesus is doing in our heart and life that the values of the kingdom are what come out。
of our lives. Whether it's in good times or bad times, whether things are easy or difficult,。
whether we're being challenged, whether we're rejoicing or whether we're mourning,。
the values of the kingdom are going to come out. God's love, God's peace, God's joy, humility,。
care for others, purity of heart, hungering and thirsting after righteousness. All of these。
beautiful things that Jesus articulated for us in this amazing sermon can come out of our lives.。
And that's what we want and that's what we desire. Jesus spoke with authority because he is the word。
of God. He is perfect relationship with God and he is the way to God. And my prayer is that in my。
life and in your life, we would enter into relationship with God by grace and by faith in。
Jesus so that we can begin to truly live out these values of the kingdom. We can respond to the。
authority that Jesus spoke with, to the truth of his words, and we can begin to obey God and live。
in right relationship with him so that the values of the kingdom come out of our lives and flood。
every life around us and our family and our community and our cities, because that's what。
we desperately need in the world we live in. We desperately need the love of Christ. We desperately。
need the values of the kingdom. Let's pray. God, thank you for all that we have learned as we have。
walked through the Sermon on the Mount. God, thank you for your truth. God, thank you that we can。
trust your authority that Jesus spoke with authority because he knew what he was talking。
about because all of these things were who he was to the core of his being. And God, I pray that you。
would help us to trust. If we don't have relationship with you, God, I pray that we。
would start there by beginning relationship by faith and the grace that you've extended,。
the unmerited favor that you've extended to us. But for those of us who do have relationship with。
you and we've been walking with you, God, help us to trust you more and to trust that if we will。
really orient our lives around the values of the kingdom, if we will really surrender to living out。
those things that even though it may seem countercultural, it may seem difficult, it may seem。
even confusing at times, that you will work in us and through us and you will use what you are doing。
in our hearts to work in our world and to bring about healing and peace and love in the lives of。
others, God. We thank you for who you are. We thank you for this beautiful Sermon on the Mount。
that you gave us, God. Help us to believe you. Help us to trust you. Help us to live it out,。
God. Give us the grace to live out the values of the kingdom day by day. In Jesus' name, amen.。
