Well, thanks Kelly. And we do have some staff transition this month and this year。
uh, Reverend Ng, our senior adult minister is going to retire by the end of this month and。
actually some of the senior adults are having a。
farewell with him today。
So we're going to pray for him because he's getting weak and he cannot serve us。
Any anymore because he's physically and mentally being challenged。
um, so continue to pray for Reverend Ng and he's going to retire and the staff will。
um。
Be making some transition in our staffing and in our ministries as well。
Uh, so more details to you and Kelly. Thanks for announcing the general assembly and please。
Make time to be here。
because we're going to go through our finance and our needs in the church and。
We invite you to participate and to contribute。
and once again, uh, Chi is going to be our assistant pastor and。
We can only afford him for part-time position。
Um, so, uh, please continue to give and please continue to support the church ministry so that we can grow together. All right。
um, so, um。
Do come to the general assembly and we'll tell you all the details and uh things that we forecast and we do need。
every sister and brother in Christ to。
Participate and to build this church together because this church is the body of Christ. It's our body is our family。
So we are all part of it and we are all members and we need to。
Work together and build this church. All right。
Um today I would like to start a mini。
sermon series on worship。
uh worship。
Uh, you probably come to church for some time。
Uh, probably you're the first time here. But in any case sometimes we gather。
uh together to sing。
to pray。
and to read scripture and reflect on the word of God and we're going to。
Care for one another and this is what worship service。
Uh looks like。
and I think years of。
COVID and pandemics have deteriorated。
our sense of worship。
Don't you agree?。
Right. I mean remember those three plus years we had the online and live streaming, right?。
Where were you right? You were probably on your bed, right?。
You're sleeping in and then oh, it's about time to uh, join the online worship service and you turn on your phone, right?。
And then you kind of like you didn't brush your teeth and you know, you just watch your phone and oh I worship。
You know, you know, we are deteriorate into that kind of uh,。
You know low state of worship. So, uh, we have to pick it up。
We have to understand what worship is all about and we have to understand why we are here。
Right, we are here not only because of some of the benefits that we get, you know people and friends and uh,。
You know food and all that stuff, but we need to understand why we are here to worship and the word worship。
Is actually coming from uh an old anglish word of worship, right?。
uh, what is what what it does, uh mean is that um。
something of value。
and something of honor。
Either a person or an object that we assign or we ascribe to someone or something, right?。
Someone or something。
Um, you go buy a car, right?。
These days cars are very very expensive, right?。
Uh, someone just bought a new car。
uh lately。
Uh, and she paid for over 40k。
For japanese car, right? Of course. It's a great car, right?。
But is it worth right?。
That's the word is all about。
you。
Think of value and honor of a person on object and you ask the question whether he or she or it worth。
The uh the value that we assign or we ascribe to it and in some sense worship is all about value。
And honor we ascribe to god。
God is great and god is to be honored and he deserves the honor and that's what worship is all about。
And you flip the pages of scripture。
from the book of psalms from the old testament from the new testament and。
It talks about the。
worthiness of god。
Worth our time and our effort to bring him the glory and to praise him。
sample here。
Revelation chapter 4 11 you are worthy。
Oh lord our god to receive。
glory honor and power。
both revelation talking about having you。
Worship what we do eternally。
It's all about worship. It's all about the worth of god that we bring to him and we praise it。
And that's what worship is all about. We have to see。
the value of god。
in your life。
That god is worthy of your everything。
Your praises and your prayers and your worship。
So we're going to turn to psalm 8。
And to think about this topic of worship and you have your bible, please open it up to psalm 8。
It says it's a very very short, uh, nine verses long psalm。
That talks about worship and there are three points I want to go through with you。
First two verses it talks about the worth of god。
And then the second part the middle part talking about our worth as human beings as creatures of god。
And then the last part talking about our mission our work。
Uh, we can。
Collaborate or we can serve god and work with god together in this world of creation。
So let's go through this psalm together psalm 8 a psalm of david. So it's written by david the psalmist。
It says oh lord our lord。
How majestic is your name in all the earth you have set your glory above the heavens。
You have set your glory and honor。
above heavens。
So you can see what david is trying to do。
He observes the heavens the sky。
And then the earth the creation the cosmos the vast universe。
And then he exclaimed that god is to be worshipped。
How majestic your name in all the earth I can see your name. I can see your power。
I can see your authority over everything that you have created and that's what david is doing。
He looks at the universe and then he bursts out with。
Uh。
awe and wonder。
Now I think I think if we have to rebuild our life of worship。
If we need to know how meaningful it is to gather as church。
No matter how many people we have to worship god together. We have to recover a sense of awe and wonder。
Don't you agree?。
the awe and wonder。
when we observe the vast universe how amazing it is。
And then we think of the the designer or the the god who created everything。
And we think of him as someone。
and that。
We cover that sense of uh, uh, awe and wonder and we praise him and we worship him. That's what david is doing here。
Now last week millions of people。
Woke up early or even be there, you know a day or two before and they went to。
Uh the the path of totality, right?。
and to see the。
100。
solar eclipse。
How many of you did see it?。
Did you see it?。
No. Yeah, right. So you went out to the street and it's all there, right?。
And you look up into the sky and then you see the wonder of creation。
Many of us or I should say well, probably many of us。
We went。
uh monday morning。
and drove many hours。
To reach that path of totality and in order to observe the the amazing universe。
right the vast, uh, uh universe the uh,。
awe and wonder。
Some people even tear up when they see。
The solar eclipse right? Isn't that amazing? I saw it too, right?。
And you know according to some survey there were about four millions of people。
four million people。
They don't live along the path of totality。
but they。
They they drove there。
Right, they they they drive there or they fly there in order to see that right?。
um。
It's just amazing number, right?。
And I did a short video and um, I I thought of uh this book。
called uh, the privilege planet。
Uh, it was written some years ago by two。
scientists。
and。
What they are trying to bring is the idea this the concept of you know, our earth。
Our planet earth is a privileged position to do all of this。
um。
observation。
and we。
they argue。
On this planet earth. We are in this swiss spot, you know。
the optimized place in the entire universe。
So that we can discover the laws of physics so that we can do a lot of different scientific discoveries。
And because we are being put in this。
Situation right the atmosphere is protecting us and we're not too far from the sun. We're not too close to the sun。
and then the moon and the stars and everything is being designed in such a way that。
makes scientific discoveries possible。
And I think that's a very very interesting idea. I know some people would disagree with it. But um。
If you look at psalm 8, that's what david is trying to say。
We are in the swiss spot on this planet earth and we can observe the wonder of creation the greatness of creation。
So we can appreciate how great our god is, right?。
verse 2。
from the lips of children and infants。
You have ordained praise because of your enemies to silence the foe and the avenger。
Now, what is what is he talking about? This is。
kind of a difficult verse。
And there are different translations。
Of this verse but the idea you can grab is pretty clear。
Uh, first of all is it talks about children。
and infants。
the babies。
Right the babies, you know our church has。
Many many babies, right? We have uh, some twins, you know, we have many cute babies。
you know。
We modern people we hold a baby in our arm, right hold an infant. Um, what what is your what's your feeling?。
Right。
It's awesome, right?。
It's cute baby。
Right. This is how modern people see babies。
But I probably explained this to you before。
for the ancient people in。
biblical culture。
Babies are not cute, right? Even we understand it, right? Well, I have two。
children, right?。
Uh, they are not cute anymore。
Um, they are older now and I continue to spend money on them, right?。
And they give me suffering。
So we don't we don't optimally think of they are cute, right?。
Now the ancient people they understood this because it's liability。
And babies are powerless people。
We understand it and they understood it because you know, we look at babies, uh, you know, we we have to feed them。
We have to change diapers for them。
And we have to protect them, right?。
my wife。
wakes up every saturday morning。
And she always has the habit to catch a tv show and the tv show is it's all about nature。
We're talking about some environmentalist going out to the nature and try to protect some of the extinct animals and all that stuff。
and she's always。
um, you know。
uh amazed by you know, how how。
How how interesting the universe is how interesting the creation is and you know, if you observe the creatures。
the animals。
most most of the animals。
when they。
give birth to。
The babies so-called the babies usually the babies can take care of themselves, right?。
either deer or birds。
uh。
Eagles, right? Usually they can take care of themselves, right?。
And the effort to feed them the effort to protect them are usually uh, pretty minimal。
but for humans。
We are not。
We're not you you think about it when we when we were born。
We were helpless。
We were powerless and when it's someone our parents。
you know to。
Love us to protect us to feed us。
And this is what verse two is all about。
It says god。
has ordained。
praise。
In the babies。
Right, I think a better translation is not the niv translation here. I think better translation is the word praise is actually strength。
Fortress or protection that means god is to protect。
the helpless babies。
Those people who find them helpless。
Those people who find them powerless and weak and they humble themselves before god。
And they're not proud before god. They will receive the protection and strength from god。
That's that's what psalm 8 is all about。
David looked at the sky and the universe and he。
Recovered the sense of wonder god is so great because the creation is so so great and we are so helpless。
And we are so powerless and we have to look up to god for help and strength and protection。
That's what psalm 8 2 is all about。
Now, um, we have to understand the psalm we have to understand the。
Design of the psalms, you know, the book of psalm has 150。
Psalms in it, right?。
And uh here I list out the first 14。
14 psalms and we know the the entire book of psalms the psalter。
has。
Two two psalms in the beginning psalm one and two as introduction。
Is a dual introduction to the entire book of worship book of psalms。
And then there's a group of psalms psalm three to seven we call them psalms of david is written by david。
um, and all of this psalms from three to seven has has one。
single central theme。
Is that david?。
was helpless。
he was being anointed king, but。
Uh, he was pursued by his enemies and he was hopeless to defend himself。
And he prayed to god and he's trusting god and god becomes his protection。
And he puts his faith in god and god defends him god defends the humble and overcome his enemies。
That's what psalm three to seven is all about and then there's another group of psalms。
nine to fourteen。
Uh runs along the same idea。
They are the individual laments。
the psalmist is crying out to god because he。
Is powerless against his enemies all these persecutions and all these sufferings。
Uh difficulties in life and he look up to god psalm nine to fourteen。
It's all about humble people finding protection in god。
And psalm eight is right。
Between right at the center and it celebrates the power of god。
power of god over those。
Who are like babies?。
Who are defenseless?。
Who are powerless?。
Now should we get that feeling when we read the psalm along with the psalmist david。
And we are all struck by the power of god in creation。
And at the same time the power of creation the power of god humbles us。
And in light of god's greatness, we are like babies。
We exist we have our beings all depend on。
the god。
Who create everything who created you and who created me who sustained you?。
And who also sustained me?。
Without god we cannot。
be。
We cannot exist。
A couple weeks ago. Um, I have some serious, uh lower back pain。
You know, I haven't had back pain for a long time, but in a couple weeks ago, I just had this, you know。
Very quite serious, uh lower back pain and uh, I use a lot of uh, salonpas, you know, I put some all around me。
All around me, but you know, it didn't really help right and then my my skin got rashes in。
It's just terrible right?。
And I and I don't know what to do and I didn't get hurt, you know, I didn't do anything to get hurt。
And um, I don't know. Yeah, i'm over 50 years old, right?。
You look at me。
I'm in pretty good shape, right?。
Compared to other over 50 years old man, right?。
If you grade a man who were 50 years old, you know, great a b c d f right? I'm probably on the uh,。
You know the top level, right?。
But you know, I just find it difficult to to recognize that I I have this back pain, you know for days。
And the only conclusion I had is that i'm getting old。
I'm getting old。
And don't we all get get old, right?。
um, we we we get weak and we realize that only god。
Is our strength and that's why god is worthy of our praise when we see and sense his power in the creation。
Uh, psalm 8 continues to to tell us our worth。
Right. So david look at the universe and he think of how majestic the power of god is and he also。
Like looking in into the mirror。
He understand his own position in the universe。
Verse three he says when I consider your heavens the work of your fingers。
The moon and the stars which you have set in place。
What is man that you are mindful of him the son of man that you care for him?。
So he exclaims。
When I consider the heavens when I see that how big the universe is it tells us。
Hey, we are not worthless。
Even though we are so small。
And we are so insignificant。
But god cares for you and for me。
Sometimes don't we feel that way, you know go for our daily life, you know, we we。
We have to tackle different challenges and you know life is tough, right?。
And sometimes we do feel that way. We are insignificant. Nobody cares about us, right?。
Psalmic says no you are worthy in god's sight。
Yes, we are not worthy of the grace of god, right no one can earn the grace of god no one can。
Right. We're all sinners. We're all broken. However。
in the other hand。
The bible reminds us and psalm 8 reminds us。
We are worthy。
of god's sight。
And that's why some people read the psalm。
as。
Telling us the paradox。
of human being。
You know what paradox is。
It's not quite contradiction. It's not logical contradiction。
Paradox, it's like it's like two sides of the same coin。
Right, it tells different。
Aspect of the same entity。
Right, but it's a different angle。
Here psalm tells us the paradox of human being and we find both sides of being human。
Yes on the one hand。
In the vast universe. We are just like a speck of dust. We're so insignificant。
Yet on the other hand。
In god's sight you are worthy。
It says what is man?。
man in hebrew is。
And knows it's it's a it's a common word in hebrew to describe mankind. I think the nlt gets it。
Right nlt new living translation gets it right it translated as mere mortals。
Mere mortals and we are all mere mortals, right?。
And we'll die someday. We'll pass away someday, right?。
The song leader the worship leader reminds us right?。
Our life is broken, right? We are fragile。
We pass away quickly, right time flies. I was talking to one of the brothers。
Uh, you know, he said oh my kid is eight years old ten years old now, right? I said time flies。
Right, we pass away. I pass away quickly and we're mortals。
and then。
The son of man. What is the son of man that you care for him?。
right。
Here the original language is son of adam。
Where we get the english name adam, right? So we all know some hebrew, right?。
adam。
son of adam。
And what does it mean son of adam, you know hebrew hebrew is a pretty interesting, uh language sometimes。
Two words sound alike and the meaning are related, you know and adam or adam is one of the words。
Adam means you know man。
Person or a human being right and then in hebrew。
ground。
the earth。
You know the dust。
The earth what we're stepping on is adamah。
Right. So adam and adamah。
They're related right with dust。
We're turning to dust right? We are so close to the ground, right? So when when you die, you know six feet under right?。
We are mere mortals。
And the psalmist david is using those terms to remind us。
That we are limited. We are powerless and we are insignificant。
So yeah, there you go. If you feel that you are insignificant。
Nobody care about you and you sometimes feel。
That you are not good enough or you don't measure up when you compare to other people。
You're exactly right。
You should feel that way I should feel that way but the song reminds us the other side of the same coin。
That we marvel how valuable we are in the sight of god。
Again, two terms tell you。
How much worth you have in the sight of god?。
That you are mindful of him. What is meant that you are mindful of him?。
Mindful of him can be translated. God remembers you right?。
Uh when you're happy。
God remembers you when you are crying when you are weeping when you're sad when you're depressed god think about you。
think of you。
That's what mindful means。
and then。
What is the son of man that you god you care for him?。
and the word care。
Uh, it's a very interesting term again in hebrew. It can。
It basically means。
Role calling role calling, you know when we go to primary school when you go to high school the teacher walks into the classroom。
and she does。
the。
Attendance sheet, right?。
And then we'll call every single one of you。
Call you by name. Are you here?。
Call you by name. Are you here?。
That's what care for means。
You are on the list of god's。
attendance。
You are here and god is mindful of you that god cares for you。
So。
Here it reminds us that we are valuable in the sight of god。
and then at the same time he continues in verses five to nine to tell us how。
You know how how um, how glorious we are。
Versus five and following god you made him man。
Every one of us a little lower than the heavenly beings or angels。
And crown him with glory and honor。
You see that in the sight of god。
We are crowned。
with glory and honor。
We are so much better. We we this phrase is with glory and honor crown with crown him with glory and honor。
Basically means you have the highest honor in the entire universe。
No, you're different from all the other creatures。
Because we human beings are being created in the image of god and we have so much worth in the sight of god。
Yes, we are limited。
but we are。
Valuable in the sight of god。
Let me continue verse。
verse six and following。
You made him ruler over the works of your hand and you put everything under his feet。
all flocks and herds and beasts of the field。
The birds of the air the fish of the sea all that swim the paths of the seas。
Everything is under。
the feet of men。
Under the feet of humankind。
Um god made us god made human beings。
This is not an accident this is not an afterthought。
The psalmist is reminding you that god made you。
God made you however insignificant you feel god made you god created you。
Now you remember some some years ago. I talked about this picture pale blue dot remember this picture。
Um, it's it's taken by uh, nasa's uh voyage one。
Uh many many years ago. It was taken in the year of 1990。
February 14 valentine's day。
um, it's the voyage one is is a is a。
photographing。
Machine and just being launched by nasa into the deep space。
and on that day。
1990 february 14。
The cameras switched back before, you know, uh, the earth disappeared。
And。
It took the picture and you can find the very very small dot。
the pale blue dot so-called。
still visible in the milky way。
Now that picture reminds us。
That we are a speck of dust in the universe. We're right there, right? Can you see that?。
We're right there。
and sometimes our secular culture。
Will have us believe that we are。
Not significant。
Or we have no meaning in our existence, right matters are eternal, right? All that matter。
Is the matter right?。
We're just a bunch of people, you know with our chemical makeup or physical makeup, right? And that's it。
Where is the?。
Where where is the intrinsic value of human being?。
We have no。
Intrinsic value. We're just accidents。
Um and nature just take its course。
And there's no inherent value or dignity in our existence。
Um, that's what the uh secular culture or naturalistic culture is trying to have us believe。
In the same way in the biblical culture。
in bible bible time。
You know all these neighbors of israel。
babylon egypt。
Or or whatever cultures are surrounding israel. They believe in some of the myths。
And some of the myths were saying that humans were being made to be slaves to other gods。
Humans exist because humans are to be slaves。
to the gods the lesser gods or the uh, the higher gods and all the gods are in in。
up there having vacation。
And you know from time to time we have to you know, bring in uh our offerings to please the gods, right?。
So the gods can have a good time up there。
And that is the cultural myth of the day。
if you if you if you hear the uh similarities。
The ancient stories。
the ancient myth of humans being slaves to the gods。
Right no values and then our western。
secular culture。
They're actually pretty similar。
We are here with no reason。
but the bible。
Says something totally different the bible says we human beings are no accident。
And you are not。
an afterthought to god。
The psalmist says god made us。
a little lower than the angels。
The highest honor we can have in the entire universe and secondly, it says god made human beings。
Rulers。
So human beings are unique. We have a royal。
status。
We're like kings and queens。
Only human beings are made in the image of god。
You know you we call genesis 1。
In fact, psalm 8 is a summary of genesis 1。
And it tells us god set us apart from all other things in the universe and all other creatures in the universe。
Because we are the image of god and we are the representatives。
Of god the king god the creator on earth。
So you read psalm 8 only nine verses。
Is actually a brief summary a condensed summary of genesis 1 god made everything in the universe for humans to flourish。
God made you and you are unique. There's no one like you。
There's no one like me and god gives。
Each and every one of us the honor to rule with him to govern。
to。
operate。
to。
take care of。
uh。
The creation and we have this honor to be part of the work of god. All right。
As we close。
I want you to take three things home。
first。
You're worthy of god's care。
Your life your existence。
It's not talking about your work。
It's not talking about your your achievement。
you。
as a human being。
Man or woman。
You are worthy of the care of the creator god。
right。
Your existence your being。
It's not talking about your work right the asian culture. We are all performance based right? Oh, we got a four point also, you know。
My parents would praise me right so I get more values or how much I earn how many figures on my paycheck。
Right. Those are our achievement that bring us values。
But some is telling you your being your existence alone。
is。
worthy。
of god's care。
And then secondly we are being called to care for the kingdom of god the creation work of god。
You go back tomorrow monday。
your accountant your teacher your。
Whatever industry you are in。
God see values in your work because you are making the you uh, the the creation。
working。
operating。
God can use the angels to do all your works。
Right to make the society running。
God can use other means but he has chosen you。
To be one of the workers to work alongside with him。
And that is the value of psalm 8. It's telling you god may you and me ruler。
We can take care of god's creation together。
And that's why we are different. That's why we're unique。
number three。
God is worthy of our worship。
God is worthy of our worship。
Uh, we have to recover the sense of wonder when we see the universe when we see the god behind the universe。
When we sing songs to god。
When we sing praises to god we just wonder man god is so great。
And yet he takes care of me, right? He can have relationship with me. He's like friend to me。
and I can have a personal relationship with。
with this creator。
Um god is worthy of our worship and we have to recover that sense。
You know, it's a sense of wonder all the time when we walk into the church when we worship together。
You know, I did not go to。
Uh the path of totality to see the full 100 solar eclipse. I should have gone. I should have gone now。
I regret it。
I should have gone. However, you know, my son went, you know, my son and his friends, you know about 10 of them。
uh, they drove a couple of cars and uh。
You know, my son nathan is in uh, uh champagne, right? He's in june. It's junior in in champagne。
So, uh, he he told us。
Hey dad, we we want to go to see uh, the uh, the solar eclipse。
I mean it would take us two hours of driving from champagne to somewhere called paris。
illinois。
Paris, you know not not france paris, illinois。
So, uh, so he told me about it, but we have to skip class。
I said sure. Yeah, right. Well you skip class anyway, so。
uh, so they drove they drove two hours to paris in the open field and then they。
They bring the cameras and they they bring the devices and uh, they do the time lapse and stuff and it's just amazing。
And he sent back some of the video files to me。
and um, I I watched those videos and there's nothing to to really see except the the eclipse because the。
The camera is is facing upward right? You can only see the sun, but I can hear what they。
say。
In the entire time the full 100 solar eclipse takes about 3.5 minutes。
And I watched those videos looking at the sun。
And hearing what they say, you know three and a half four minutes long video。
And all I hear is wow。
Whoa。
Ah。
And all that's it's meaningless, you know words, right?。
But it's their the expression of sense of wonder。
When you see the eclipse and you understand how vast the universe is and how how wonderful the universe you are all struck。
right。
And all they said in the in the entire four minutes is just that right? Wow。
This is great, this is wild。
Psalm 8 reminds us when we worship god we should have that sense of wow。
God is so great and yet he loves us。
Right you think about salvation we have in jesus christ。
God came to the speck of dust。
In this vast universe。
Jesus came and saved us。
Jesus came and died on the cross so that we can restore our relationship with him。
Wow。
We should be all struck。
By the greatness of god and by the love of god, right? Amen。
Let's all do that every single week。
When we come here。
Now we have to come on time. Okay。
But come on time because it's just like solar eclipse, right? You missed out you missed out, right?。
The entire worship service is the offering to god and to see that god is worthy of our praise。
Let's all pray together。
Father we give you thanks because。
You are a great god。
And you are great and awesome。
And god we see this universe we see this creation that you have made and we see how wonderful it is。
How great this universe is and yet we sense that we are so insignificant。
We're so small。
We're so tiny。
But you are mindful of each and every one of us。
So we thank you for your love。
Thank you for your grace。
And only in jesus christ we can be your people and we can be called your children。
So we come before you we just want to recover the sense of wonder。
To worship you to praise you and to see how great you are。
And how worthy we are in your sight。
So thank you for your love and send us back into our daily life this week so that we can be your representatives。
We can work for you。
We can relate to other people。
And show them your glory your reality。
So we pray that you will continue to grow us into this spiritual awe and wonder。
That we can truly worship you。
in christ name pray。
So god bless you and we want to see you next week。
Uh, we can we're gonna recover and we may and maintain our sense of wonder as we worship and serve god together。
All right, god bless。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
