- All right guys, welcome, and I want to invite you all。
to the World Cup watching party,。
and you know, you can come and have some fun,。
even though you don't understand soccer,。
you don't understand football, you don't enjoy it,。
but just come for the spirit of it, okay?。
How about that, all right?。
So today, I would like to insert a little series。
on how the Bible sees women, okay?。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Yeah, and so, you know, we, when we think about。
the story of the Bible, you think about the grand story。
of the Bible from the beginning to the end,。
you think that the Bible is all about men, right?。
If you can count, or you can name some of the heroes。
of faith in the Bible, from the beginning to the end,。
from Genesis to Revelation, you can see。
there were a lot of men, right?。
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Joshua, the judges,。
and then David, Ezra, Nehemiah, and all that,。
and Jesus, of course, right?。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then, as you can see in the chart,。
the history of the Bible, it seems to be dominant。
by men and advancing God's plan through men alone.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then, but if we take a look at the Bible in details,。
you see that, you look again and again,。
there's every turning point of the entire history。
of the Bible, you'll find women are equally。
important key players of God's plan.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So you start from, well, the beginning on the left。
is the age of the patriarchs, right?。
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob.。
You can find that without Sarah, or the matriarchs,。
there's no child of promise to advance the plan.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then in Exodus, without the midwives,。
the daughter of Pharaoh and Miriam, the sister of Moses,。
there was no Moses, because Moses would have been drowned。
in the water of Nile River.。
And Moses was first rescued by these women。
before he became the leader to lead Israel out of Egypt.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Then when they enter into the land of Canaan,。
without Rahab's faith, the prostitute Rahab,。
who turned her faith to Yahweh,。
Israel could not enter Canaan.。
And without Deborah in the time of Judges,。
there was no deliverance.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Now, before the age of kingdoms,。
David and Solomon and those guys,。
without Ruth or without Hannah, there was no David.。
And then even in the time of return, exile and return,。
without Esther, most of the Jewish people。
would have been perished.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then at the climax of the biblical history,。
from the left to right,。
of course, the birth of our savior, Jesus Christ,。
and his birth was only achieved。
by the faith of a woman, right?。
Mary.。
And the first witness of the resurrection。
of the empty tomb was not a male disciple,。
but Mary Magdalene.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So as you can see, down there is the man。
and up there is all the women.。
And women are not the footnote of biblical history.。
At every single point of moment of redemption。
or turning point,。
God chose to accomplish his saving plan through women.。
And of course, together with men.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So today I would like to talk about this story,。
this very short story found in the gospel of Luke.。
And let me read that passage for you.。
It's Luke 10, 38 to 42.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, let me read that in English first.。
38 to 40.。
As Jesus and his disciples were on their way,。
he came to a village and a woman named Martha。
welcomed him into her home.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And during the night, she had a sister named Mary.。
There are many Marys.。
It's one of those, okay?。
It's not the earthly mother of Jesus.。
Mary who sat at the Lord's feet。
and listened to the word of Jesus.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Verse 40, but Martha was distracted by all the serving.。
She came to Jesus and said,。
"Lord, do you not care that my sister。
had left me to serve alone?。
Tell her to come and help me."。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Then verse 41, the Lord answered her,。
"Mother, mother, mother, mother," the Lord answered,。
"You are worried and upset about many things."。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And Jesus continued in verse 42,。
"But only one thing is necessary.。
Mary has chosen the good portion。
and no one will take it away from her."。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Now, this passage, this story is very familiar。
to a lot of you, right?。
The traditional reading goes,。
okay, Martha is too busy, right?。
Doing so much things in the kitchen。
while Mary's sitting quietly, you know,。
nothing to do, but you know, at the Lord's feet.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So our understanding would be,。
not be distracted like Martha,。
but you know, be more like, you know, the quiet Mary, right?。
You gotta make time, your quiet time in your busy lives。
to draw near to God, to read the Bible,。
to listen to the word of Jesus.。
And then after that, you serve.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So you agree with that, right?。
So this reading is good reading, you know?。
I've taught that too, and it builds up the people。
so that we have more quiet time with the Lord.。
But it doesn't seem like the whole story though.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So today we're gonna dig a little bit deeper。
and see what Luke really meant to the church,。
to the first audience by, you know, talking about the story.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Now on the surface, this story is all about domestic thing,。
right?。
Kitchen, ordinary stuff, two sister holding Jesus。
and the disciples.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
But you have to understand,。
when Luke was writing the story to the first church。
in the first century, the church back then,。
in those time, they had no church public buildings。
to go to.。
So believers meet actually at homes.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So I have some verses here to tell you。
from, you know, different parts of the New Testament.。
Think of the newborn church in Philippi.。
That Paul planned this church,。
and then it was hosted at the home of Lydia.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then verse 12 of chapter 12 of the book of Acts,。
the early church in Jerusalem,。
they gather not in the public building,。
and they pray not in the public building,。
but at the home of here another Mary, right?。
Mary, the mother of Mark.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
In the Colossians chapter four,。
at the end of the letter, Paul writes。
that there was a sister called Nimpha,。
and the church that is in her house.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So when the first century church received the story。
from Luke, when they heard about Martha。
welcoming Jesus into her home,。
what came to mind was the hostess。
or the patron of a house church.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And you can see like the key word of Jesus。
was talking to Martha in verse 40, verse 40 right here,。
and Martha is serving, right, serving Jesus.。
That is the same Greek word later to be used。
for deacon, for ministry.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And Luke, so Luke is not writing merely。
to talk about there was a tension。
between the kitchen and the living room, right,。
but he's talking about the role。
and ministry of women in the church.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So you have to understand in the first century,。
social space is strictly divine.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And even today, even today, if we go to Jerusalem,。
we go to the heart of Jerusalem,。
which is the Western Wall, the Wailing Wall, right?。
It's the Wailing Wall, the entire wall。
is the first century wall.。
And then it was divided into two sections.。
One section is strictly for men,。
and the other section is strictly for women.。
And studying the Torah, studying the law。
is the privilege of men only.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So there's quite a few times I visited the land of Palestine.。
Sometimes I went into West Bank,。
and I used to stay in a Muslim household.。
And then I find that in the few days。
that I stay with the Muslim family,。
I've never seen any women.。
I only see men.。
You know, the host, you know, the husband or the father。
will sit down with me to share the meal together.。
But you know, food, you know, food, you know,。
the meal, breakfast, lunch, and dinner。
are prepared by the women, but I never seen any women.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Is that interesting, right?。
So men belong to outside, right?。
The public space, the social space.。
But women belongs to the inside, right?。
Women in charge of home and children.。
The two worlds never cross one another.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So only when we grasp that concept, that kind of custom,。
do we feel how radical this picture is,。
that Mary is sitting at the feet of Jesus。
and surrounded by male disciples.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Now, verse 39 of Luke says she has a sister called Mary。
who sat at the Lord's feet listening to what he said, right?。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Now, what kind of picture came to mind, right?。
Mary sitting at the feet of Jesus.。
You know, to sit at the rabbi's feet,。
was actually a technical phrase in the first century.。
It's to become a formal disciple, a full disciple,。
being trained under a rabbi。
and even on the path of being a rabbi herself.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Now, this same phrase happens to be used by Paul。
in the book of Acts, chapter 22, verse three.。
Paul described himself the same way, much the similar terms.。
"I am a Jew," Paul said, "and born in Tarsus, Cilicia,。
"but brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel."。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, so the original word is at the feet.。
And he said he was educated straightly。
according to the law of our ancestor。
and selfless for God and just as all of you are today.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So at the feet of a rabbi, you know, Gamaliel。
was the Harvard of his day, you know, and the best teacher.。
And he was sitting at the feet of Gamaliel, the rabbi.。
In the first century, especially, this seat, you know,。
sitting at the feet of the famous rabbi。
is often not a seat for a woman.。
You know, a woman was not allowed to take that seat.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So the missionary, there was a group of Jewish local。
from the second century actually talks about a rabbi。
saying that if you teach your daughter,。
the Torah is like teaching her to be, you know,。
promiscuous.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then from this background,。
you can see the protest of mother saying to Jesus,。
"Tell her to come and help me,"。
was actually at the heart of the demand.。
Mother is seeing Mary leaving the woman's space。
and invading the man's space,。
and that's not what a woman ought to be.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
But Jesus actually said that Mary has chosen。
the good portion and it cannot be taken away.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then the phrase cannot be taken away。
has no person, no subject to it, no culture to it.。
So it actually means it cannot be pulled away from her,。
from her place as a disciple or full disciple。
at her rabbi's feet.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So sitting at the feet of the rabbi, right?。
To become on the path of being a rabbi.。
So you have to notice the story does not blame mother。
for food and hospitality.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So Jesus was not talking about, you know, serving itself.。
He's talking about serving so much.。
There's so much going on in her heart。
that pull her apart and make her anxious.。
That is the tension there.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So you could think about the church, you know,。
even our church, you know, our church is sustained。
actually by many women, right?。
Godly women.。
And they pray for the church, they teach here。
and they serve in the background。
and sometimes they serve on stage.。
So this story is about Mary and Martha,。
they can serve together.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So you assume the lens a little bit widen,。
widen the lens and you see what gospel Luke is trying to do。
because in Luke 9, 51,。
that's from chapter one all the way to chapter 9, 51,。
Jesus says something like this.。
Jesus did something like this.。
He set his face to go to Jerusalem,。
setting his face to go to journey to Jerusalem for what?。
To accomplish the plan of salvation on the cross.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So from chapter 9, verse 51 onward, you know,。
Jesus journey to Jerusalem to die on the cross.。
It begins to tell us what Jesus was here to do。
and his disciples follow Jesus.。
And you can see story after story, story after story,。
Jesus is breaking some sort of social boundaries。
one after another, break them one after another。
along the way.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Well, as I put it on the slide,。
you know, first story is about sending out 70 people。
to preach the gospel。
and the gospel will cross beyond the boundaries of Israel.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So breaking the geographical boundaries.。
And then the next story is 10, 25 to 37.。
It is the Good Samaritan story.。
And the Good Samaritan story, the parable,。
as you are familiar to it,。
it breaks the boundary of ethnicity.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then after that is our story today, 10, 38 to 42,。
Martha and Mary.。
It talks about not loving your neighbor.。
It's not loving God fully.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So, you know, even women can love God fully, right?。
And then together, you know, the Good Samaritan,。
Mary illustrate two greatest commandments of all, right?。
Love your neighbor as yourself.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And then the next story, Martha and Mary,。
talking about love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
all your soul, and all your strength.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So as you can see, Mary's sitting at the feet of Jesus,。
at the feet of Rabbi, is not only about her privilege。
or right to hear the word of God,。
but it's about, you know,。
inheriting all discipleship is all about.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So this little story, of course, is a very warm story,。
right, it's telling us, it's telling us。
that ministry or the role of women in the church。
is not restricted by gender.。
It's not restricted by gender.。
Even women can sit at the feet of the Rabbi,。
and it's not gender specific.。
It rests on God's calling and God's gifting.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So today, as we conclude this little story,。
and we know that, you know, women are very important,。
right, women are very important.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So as we conclude, sisters and brothers,。
think of a moment, think of a moment。
where when you were touched by a godly woman,。
God has sent some godly woman to touch your lives。
and to bless our church.。
Think of those people, the women.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So think of the women who taught us, you know,。
women who led people to Christ,。
women who mentor one of us,。
and who serve quietly in the kitchen or in visitation,。
and never claiming any credit.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So Jesus in the gospel has broken down the gender boundary,。
and may God open our eyes to see what Jesus saw,。
to see Mary, and also see Martha.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So this week, I have a homework for you.。
Go to one of the women in your life,。
in life, think of those women who blessed you, okay?。
Go to them and say, "Thank you.。
"God has blessed me through you and your work."。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So can you do that this week?。
Any woman who has blessed you, go to her and say,。
"Thank you.。
"Thank you for, you know, answering the calling of God。
"and blessed me through your life," all right?。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
So we pray, do a short prayer。
before we conclude our service.。
Let's pray.。
Let's pray.。
Let's pray.。
Dear God, we thank you.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
We thank you for all the women who has blessed us.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And God, we wanna ask you to bless them all.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
May that woman be our mother, our spouse,。
our sister in Christ.。
Bless them all.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And God, we wanna give you thanks for the church.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
And God, we ask that you will help us。
to grow this church together,。
no matter what gender we are.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
In Jesus' name, we pray.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
(translator speaking in foreign language)。
