So that's the announcements.。
Again, we come before the word of God.。
We gonna turn to the book of Matthew,。
the gospel of Matthew.。
So if you have your phone app or you have your Bible,。
turn to Matthew 24, Matthew 24.。
Last days, according to Jesus, okay?。
Last time I was talking about this,。
the Olivet Discourse.。
It's a long sermon that Jesus gave.。
What signs will happen when the Temple of Jerusalem。
was destroyed?。
So Matthew 24, the Olivet Discourse,。
is related to the broad subject of eschatology,。
the end time, right?。
The end time.。
It's not complicated, but this word comes from。
the Greek term eschaton, right, as you remember.。
It's about the end.。
It's about the end.。
So here Jesus is answering questions。
posted by his disciples.。
What would happen when the Temple of Jerusalem was destroyed?。
What are the signs?。
And then what are the signs of his second coming?。
So two questions are lumped together,。
and Jesus is giving answer to this twofold questions.。
He is talking about a list of signs.。
So conveniently, I list it here.。
You will see false prophets.。
You will see wars and rumors of wars,。
earthquakes, persecutions,。
and many people will turn away from faith.。
Their love will grow cold,。
and the gospel will reach to the end of the earth,。
and there will be unusual astronomical phenomena.。
The sun and the moon and stars,。
they will behave differently or unusually.。
As I told you before, if we understand the background,。
the context of first century,。
especially 8030 to 8070, what happened there,。
all the signs happened before 8070,。
or around that time.。
So the first generation of Christians,。
they have every good reason to expect。
the second coming of Christ in their own lifetime.。
Jesus Christ is coming back any time.。
So no more signs is needed.。
Sometimes you may have heard some prophecy teachers。
telling you things like, okay, we are watching for this sign.。
You know, we are getting closer and closer.。
But look at what Jesus said, 2430.。
At that time, the sign of the Son of Man。
will appear in the sky,。
and all the nations of the earth will mourn.。
They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky。
with power and great glory.。
Now Jesus gave a list of signs.。
He said, this is a list of signs that you guys,。
the first disciples, will see before 8070,。
or around that time.。
So all the signs are already visible.。
You don't need to wait for another sign.。
As I said, some of the prophecy teachers today。
will be telling you, there was a sign we are watching,。
there was a sign we are waiting for, the end is coming.。
Jesus said, no.。
Some of the prophecy teachers will tell you,。
especially these days, you know,。
there were a lot of unrest around the world.。
Some will tell you, okay, Russia invading Ukraine。
is another sign fulfilled before the second coming.。
No, this is bogus, this is bogus.。
No need to wait for another sign.。
Jesus said, the next sign you will see。
is the sign of the Son of Man's second coming.。
By the time you see the next sign, it will be too late.。
It will be too late.。
So that's why he is trying to convince,。
trying to teach us how to be prepared for his second coming.。
Preparing for the second coming of Christ,。
not by looking for another sign.。
All the signs we have seen, right?。
Especially even, you look around the world,。
there are many things similar。
to the list of signs happening right before our eyes.。
Yes, of course, because we have seen it。
in the first century already.。
So how do we prepare for the second coming?。
Not by looking for another sign,。
but by preparing in our own lives.。
Okay, let's continue with this chapter 24, 36.。
Jesus said, no one knows about that hour, that day,。
that day of his second coming,。
not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son himself,。
but only the Father, only God the Father.。
He determines, he plans, he knows the time of the eschaton.。
Only he knows.。
So you would not know, even the prophecy teachers these days.。
You hear here now from time to time,。
some prophecy teachers will tell you,。
okay, they can calculate the exact day。
and time of second coming of Christ.。
Don't believe that, they are false prophets.。
No one knows about the day and the hour,。
not even the angels, nor the Son, only the Father.。
37, as it was in the days of Noah.。
So it will be the coming of the Son of Man.。
For in the day before the flood,。
people were eating and drinking,。
marrying and giving in marriage,。
up to the day Noah entered the ark.。
They knew nothing about what would happen。
until the flood came and took them all away.。
This is how it will be at the coming of the Son of Man.。
What it will be like when Jesus comes back is unexpected.。
The day of the second coming of Christ is sudden.。
You would not know, I would not know.。
And Jesus likens his second coming to the days of Noah.。
Remember this story?。
Okay, our Bible study will go through that story later.。
Genesis 6 to 8.。
Chapter 6 to 8 of the book of Genesis.。
Talking about the great massive flood。
coming in the days of Noah.。
And when the flood comes,。
when the water swifts away some people,。
nobody knew, nobody expected it.。
And Jesus has described what the people were doing。
in the days of Noah.。
People were going through their daily routine as normal.。
Right?。
We will be working, business as usual.。
But when the flood comes unexpectedly,。
it swipes them away.。
Two men will be in the field.。
One will be taken away, the other left behind.。
Two women will be grinding with a hand mill.。
One will be taken and the other left.。
Therefore, keep watch because you do not know。
on what day your Lord will come.。
Now some will use this passage。
to support a theory called rapture.。
Right?。
You probably have heard of that, right?。
If you have never heard of that, that's good.。
All right?。
Because it's confusing.。
Some of you may have heard that some people。
use this passage to support so-called rapture.。
Now simply put, what rapture theory talks about。
is that when Christ comes again,。
he will come first in secret.。
So nobody knows all the earth,。
all the people would not know.。
He will come in secrecy.。
And when he comes in secret,。
he will snatch away some people。
and some people will suddenly disappear off the earth。
and leave it behind those who do not believe in Jesus.。
And that seven years of disaster,。
intense disasters will befall the earth.。
It will kick in the seven years,。
the last seven years of human history.。
Now if you read this passage carefully,。
I don't think the passage is teaching that.。
I don't think the passage is teaching。
that Jesus is coming in secrecy。
and that will snatch away some people。
and the left behind are those who are doomed.。
You read this passage carefully,。
two men are working in the field,。
one will be taken and the other left.。
Now in the ancient society,。
men are working outside on farmlands, right?。
Sometimes father and son working together.。
One will be taken away, perishing.。
Because Jesus is talking about the flood.。
The flood will take some people away.。
And then those who are not being taken away,。
those are the people who are left behind.。
So in that sense, it's good to be left behind, right?。
'Cause you don't want to be taken away,。
taken away by the flood.。
Two women will be grinding with a hand mill.。
Now sometimes, most of the time in the ancient society,。
the women will work inside the house.。
So the hand mill is two big stone,。
you know, on top of one another,。
and then you kind of turn it, right?。
So two women will be working together,。
you know, opposite, sitting opposite against one another.。
Probably a mother and a daughter.。
One will turn 180 degree,。
and the other person will turn the other 180 degree.。
And then come back on and on and on.。
Hand mill, moving the hand mill,。
turning the stone again and again,。
it's daily routine.。
One will be taken away,。
and the other will be left behind.。
So if you read this passage carefully,。
it is good to be left behind, right?。
Because the flood will take away。
those who are unprepared for judgment.。
Only Noah and his family in the ark。
were left behind, and they were safe.。
All the rest of the people were being taken away.。
That would be like the future,。
day of the second coming of Christ.。
Nobody knows, business as usual, right?。
Look at this chart.。
I wanna ask you the question,。
where are we right now?。
Now this is the New Testament。
or the biblical concept of time.。
This is the biblical concept of history.。
It is, as I said before,。
we are living in between the first coming。
and the second coming of Christ.。
We are living right in between,。
between the first and second coming.。
We are in this last period of human history.。
We can call it already, but not yet.。
Already the kingdom of God,。
the future kingdom of God。
has already in breaking into our history.。
And we are getting closer and closer to the end,。
getting closer to the eschaton.。
Now one important takeaway from this chart。
is that the biblical concept of time is always linear.。
If you flip the Bible, if you study the Bible,。
you understand the Bible has its own concept,。
perspective on time, our time, human history.。
And it is linear.。
It is not cyclic.。
It is not recurring again and again and again。
as some Eastern philosophies。
or Eastern religions have taught us.。
It is not coming back and coming back and coming back again.。
Not reincarnation, no.。
Not recurrence of eternity, no.。
The biblical concept of time is linear.。
It is going toward an end, the eschaton.。
So in the Bible, human history,。
time has the ultimate purpose.。
There's a destination in human history.。
We're going forward, coming to the end,。
reaching the eschaton.。
And when the eschaton comes,。
the second coming of Christ, the yellow arrow,。
the second coming of Christ,。
the new heaven and the new earth。
as revealed in the book of Revelation will come,。
will be reality.。
So we are all moving toward the end.。
Practically speaking, there are two ways.。
There are two ways you and I will see Jesus.。
Okay, there are only two ways.。
The first way, of course,。
is the second coming of Christ, right?。
That's what the New Testament, the olive discourse,。
what Jesus taught about on Mount Olive,。
are telling you.。
The end of the age is coming to the end,。
will be conclude at the second coming of Christ.。
And we will all see God face to face.。
If he comes today, before this sermon ends, okay,。
we will see him face to face.。
That's one practical way we will see Jesus.。
And we will all, and each and every one of us,。
will need to give an account of our whole life.。
That's one way.。
The second way we will see Jesus,。
is that when your life ends,。
often without warning, often without warning.。
Friday night, last week, I received a text。
from one of my pastoral staff,。
a brother I know from another church up north.。
I've known him for years.。
No signs of warning.。
He isn't that old, okay?。
He's pretty healthy.。
He was at home last Friday,。
but all of a sudden he fell unconscious.。
All of a sudden.。
His wife is trying to wake him up, right?。
But she was not able to wake him up.。
He's now in critical condition.。
So we were praying for him.。
Since Friday night, and the latest news I know。
is that he's not hospitalized.。
He got out of the hospital, thank God.。
So he's heading home.。
But it's a wake up call.。
That our life will end, right?。
You guys all younger than me, you would say,。
"Heh, you go first," right?。
No, not necessarily.。
If you go to cemetery,。
you look at the years on the tombstones, right?。
Many of them are younger than you.。
Have you ever taken a tour to cemetery?。
I remember I was in Vancouver.。
I was leading a youth group, right?。
There was one Friday night I got a creative idea。
because there was cemetery by the church, you know?。
So we took a tour.。
We took a tour at night to the cemetery.。
So I assigned the students.。
They were about 20, 25.。
So I gave them assignment.。
I said, "Go around and survey the cemetery.。
"Write down the years of their birth and their death.。
"Come back, report to me."。
You know, no surprise.。
They found quite a few younger than them.。
Young people, right, high schoolers.。
Take a tour to cemetery.。
So we got caught, right?。
We all need to give an account to God himself, right?。
Two ways you will see Jesus face to face.。
The yellow arrow, he comes.。
Everybody will see him face to face.。
Give an account.。
Second practical way is that you go see him, right?。
You go see him first.。
Ultimately, it's the same。
because we all need to give an account.。
2444, Jesus said, "So you must be ready。
"because the Son of Man will come at an hour。
"when you do not expect it."。
When you do not expect, he will come.。
Again, eschatology in the New Testament。
is not teaching us to escape.。
It's not teaching us to get away from this world, right?。
Oh, this world is so much trouble.。
I would rather Jesus come and then I would escape, right?。
I don't need to go to work tomorrow, right?。
I don't need to deal with this or that trouble tomorrow.。
That's not the spirit.。
That's not the essence of eschatology.。
The teaching of end time is not to help us to escape, right?。
It's to help us to engage.。
It's to help us to participate。
into what God is doing in this world.。
To fulfill his will, to use our gifts.。
So the Bible never tells us, right,。
to sell everything of yours,。
do nothing and wait for the second coming.。
The Bible never does that.。
The first generation of disciples, they never did that.。
Even though they saw all the signs。
and they rightly expect the second coming of Christ。
happening in their lifetime.。
They never just quit their job。
and just go to the mountain and wait for Jesus to come.。
They engage in their lives.。
They preach the gospel.。
They use their gifts to build up the church.。
They go everywhere with the gospel, right?。
They have good works out of their faith.。
It's to engage, it's not to escape.。
That is why after all this teaching,。
in the end of chapter 24 to 25,。
Jesus has a series of parables.。
Now these are the key points.。
Sometimes our focus is on the signs, right?。
Oh, there's another war coming.。
There's rumors of war, right?。
There are earthquakes and all that, right?。
Sometimes our focus are being driven。
to those sensational stuff, right?。
All this end time talk are usually sensational,。
trying to get your attention,。
trying to shift your focus away from this world, right?。
Not looking for another sign, but Jesus focus on what?。
That is the conclusion of his entire two chapter long。
teaching on the last days.。
He taught us a series of four parables here.。
The first parable, 24, 45 to 51,。
parable of faithful and wise servant.。
Always ready to give an account to his master.。
When his master comes back, he is able to give an account.。
The second parable, the 10 virgins,。
or more appropriately, is more like bridesmaids.。
As according to the Palestinian wedding custom。
of first century, they have tons of bridesmaids。
waiting for the groom to come back。
from another village, right?。
When the groom leaves the village to the bride's village。
to pick up the bride, to come back often at night,。
often because of the celebration。
and because of the good time that they had,。
the groom will arrive late.。
And the bridesmaid of the groom's village。
will have to be prepared with the oil ready。
because often he will come back at night.。
And you have your torch and your oil ready at all times.。
Stay watchful for the groom's coming.。
The five wise bridesmaid, they got oil prepared.。
Even the groom comes back delayed.。
They are ready to go out and welcome。
and to be part of the banquet.。
The five foolish one, they did not have the oil ready.。
So they could not enter the banquet.。
The third parable, 25, 14 to 30, parable of talents.。
The master's giving his money and trust them。
to three of his servants.。
One give 5,000, the other one 2,000, the other one 1,000.。
The two with 5,000 and 2,000,。
they invest the money to increase the asset of the master.。
The third one took the 1,000 and bury it under the ground.。
And then the parable says, after a long time,。
long delayed period of time, the master comes back.。
The 5,000, 2,000, they gave double of the asset.。
The 1,000 are being cast away.。
Not prepared to give an account.。
Wasted the talent that the master has given him.。
Now again, it's using the first century context。
to tell the parable.。
But the essence, the teaching is easy to grasp.。
Is that God has given us and entrusted talents。
and treasures into our lives.。
Are we, in light of his coming,。
are we investing and doing everything we can。
to increase the asset of the master's property?。
As we build the church together,。
as we preach the gospel,。
as we build up our spiritual life, right,。
become more mature disciples,。
we're building up the asset of the master.。
We're building up the kingdom of God, right?。
And trusted with the talent.。
You and I need to work to increase the value of the kingdom.。
The last parable, the sheep and the goats.。
Yes, when Christ comes again,。
he is the shepherd.。
He can separate.。
He can tell who is real and who is not real question.。
No, it's easy to look like a question, right?。
I mean, don't you know if you've been to church。
for some time, you can act like a question.。
And maybe you act like a question to the point。
that you thought you were really a question.。
Because it's easy to just follow a script, right?。
Sing the song, right?。
It's very easy.。
Most of the songs that the leaders are leading us。
are usually easy to follow.。
We can all sing, right?。
We can all pray the same prayers, right?。
We can all read the same Bible.。
We can all do many things, right?。
But externally, we look the same.。
However, at the core, we need to confront ourselves。
whether we are acting like a question。
or are we being a question.。
It's not about doing.。
It's our internal being,。
whether we really have a personal saving relationship。
with our Lord Jesus Christ, right?。
And that's why Good Friday is so important.。
Because one day each year,。
it's not a meaningless routine or ritual。
that we just go with the motion。
and thought that we're okay.。
Good Friday, why do we call Good Friday?。
But what's so good because a man die on the cross, right?。
There's nothing good about it.。
But if you think about it,。
what the Son of God has done on the cross,。
it is good for you who receive.。
It's good for me.。
It's grace for me that I can be called。
the son or daughter of God.。
It's a reflection time,。
it's a time of reminder to confront ourselves。
whether our call is real.。
Right?。
You know, in many other parables in the book of Matthew,。
Jesus said in the last day, when Jesus comes back,。
there were many who approach Jesus and say,。
"I know you, I serve you,。
"I even cast out a demon in your name."。
Right?。
You know what did Jesus say?。
He said, "I don't know you."。
Because not everyone call me Lord, Lord,。
will enter the kingdom.。
Only those who listen to my word and do my will,。
and they will be wise.。
They will be wise and they will be ready。
to come into the kingdom.。
So four parables, one after another,。
and trying to push us, trying to confront us。
with the ultimate question of life.。
Right?。
Whether we are truly related to God,。
whether we are ready and prepared for the kingdom.。
Last time I asked you the three Ts,。
your time, your treasure, and your talent.。
Where is your heart?。
You know, Jesus said where your treasure is,。
where your heart is, right?。
You can lie to yourself.。
Where's your time?。
Do you manage your time well?。
So that you can use your time to extend,。
to increase, to extend the kingdom of God.。
Your talents, right?。
Every one of us has talent, right?。
Some of us have $5,000, some of us have $2,000,。
some have $1,000, but there's no comparison here.。
Because remember what the parable says, right?。
The one who received $5,000 gave $5,000, double.。
The other one who received $2,000 gave doubles,。
that's $4,000, right?。
God is calling us not to be a fanfare.。
God is calling us to be faithful, right?。
Faithful to what he entrusts to us.。
So these questions I give it to you.。
Let's be prayerful and be reminded,。
are we truly related to Jesus Christ?。
Are we listening?。
Are we doing his will?。
Are we prepared for his return?。
Let's all pray together.。
Jesus, you are the son of God.。
The glorious son of God.。
And you will return someday, unexpectedly.。
You will come.。
Because we know that you came.。
You came the first time.。
To die on the cross, to raise from the dead,。
to accomplish salvation, the glorious salvation。
for all of us who believe.。
Yes, you came.。
That's why we know you will come.。
According to your word and promises,。
your second coming will happen anytime.。
Or we will see you anytime.。
And Jesus remind us to be your faithful and wise servant.。
Help us to examine what we have,。
our time, our talent, our treasure.。
Help us to ask the question,。
are we using all that you have entrusted to us。
to increase the asset of your kingdom?。
To help extend, advance your kingdom.。
Jesus, help us to be alert and to be watchful。
at all time.。
Live every single one of our days。
responsibly and faithfully.。
To do all things that will be pleasing to you.。
May you continue to grow our faith and grow our church。
so that your name will be exalted in Christ's name we pray.。
All right, guys, hope to see you again soon.。
