And here's the announcement.。
Let's welcome Pastor Mark for today's sermon.。
Welcome everyone.。
And again, I want to remind you on your way out,。
there will be a table, there will be some products, CDs and media products featuring sun music.。
And please go pick it up. It's not free.。
You have to pay for it.。
And I think it's worth for you to support a ministry like this, right?。
To have strong and solid spiritual hymns and contemporary songs, worship songs, serving for the church.。
And we want to praise God and thank God for using Brenda in the past many years and writing so many songs.。
And Cantonese songs or English songs or Mandarin songs, right?。
Mandarin songs. Wasn't it a beautiful song?。
What was it?。
The Mandarin song I'm talking about. Yeah, the third one.。
Okay, those of you who don't know Chinese, it's okay.。
It's still beautiful, right?。
It's still beautiful.。
And we want a ministry like this to grow and to work with the church and support the church。
so that churches around the world can sing praises to our Lord, right?。
Amen?。
So please do support the Sun Music ministry.。
By the way, they have a YouTube channel and go Google it.。
Sun Music, S-O-N, Son of God, S-O-N, God's Son, Jesus Christ, S-O-N Music, okay?。
So go and subscribe, all right?。
Go and subscribe, please. Go and subscribe, all right?。
And support her ministry and it's really a bless to have her in the past weekend.。
And we got five people last night to come forward and made the decision to come to know Jesus.。
Amen to that, right?。
Thank God for that.。
And today, I know my time is very limited and I'll make it short.。
And I want to start with this question.。
It's a big question.。
I wonder if you read the Bible, you try to understand the Bible,。
have you ever asked yourself a question, "What does God really want?"。
What in the world does God desire the most?。
You know, look at Genesis 1 to the last chapter of the Bible, Revelation 22.。
There was a theme underlying all of these books.。
Now, there are 66 books in the Bible, 39 books in the Old Testament, and 27 books in the New Testament.。
But among all of the books from Genesis to Revelation,。
there is an underlying central theme that runs through every single book, every single passage.。
And what does God really want?。
And that theme that underlines and links every single thing together,。
one of those themes is that God wants to make His home among us.。
He wants to live among us, among His people.。
Whenever we worship, whenever the church gathers,。
we sing praises to the name of Jesus, we exalt the name of the Lord.。
When we worship together, God lives among us.。
And that's one of the major themes underlying the entire Old Testament and New Testament, entire Bible.。
Do you realize that even though there are 66 separate books in the collection,。
what we call Bible, is actually a big story, a big narrative,。
big narrative to introduce to us who God really is.。
I want you to pay attention in the next five to seven minutes as I cut this sermon into a very condensed form.。
I want to give you a very, very quick summary.。
What the Bible is all about, what God really wants, is to live in your life.。
God wants to fill your life with His love, His joy, and His peace, and His kingdom.。
That's what God really wants. That is what God really desires.。
God is not some kind of transcendent concept out there somewhere and doesn't care about you.。
God cares about you deeply. God wants to make His home in your heart.。
And He wants to make His home in His people, in the churches, in all of God's people.。
I want you to pay attention to three circles.。
And these three circles is a very, very condensed summary of what the entire Bible is all about.。
And you ever use a napkin, a piece of napkin?。
You can put the entire Bible on a piece of napkin.。
This is a napkin theology, all right? Napkin theology.。
You can just do it during lunch or during dinner.。
On the dining table, take a piece of napkin, and you can summarize the entire, entire story of the Bible.。
And this three circles is, you have to imagine, the first circle is on your upper left,。
is that God created this world good and orderly.。
God created everything, the entire cosmos, the entire universe, out of love.。
Do you realize that God is Trinity, right? Three persons in one God, right?。
That's kind of interesting. That kind of defiles our logic, right?。
There is no way for us to wrap around what is going on.。
God is one, but He's also three. God is also three, but one, right?。
Isn't that interesting, right? But that is what God in His essence.。
He is not a lone person. He is a community, one community, united together, and love one another.。
The Father loves the Son, and the Son loves the Spirit, and the Spirit loves the Son and the Father.。
And there's a mutual community of the God Himself.。
God is three in one, Father, Son, and Spirit.。
How many of you have children? How many have children? Yeah.。
A few of you, yeah. You should understand, right?。
First, when we first gave birth to the first child, what did we do? What did we do?。
We prepared the crib, we prepared the diapers, we prepared the bottles, we prepared everything.。
And we set aside a room for her, and we set aside so many things, and put the child in your first priority.。
At least, you know, ten months or so before the birth of the child, right?。
And why do we do that?。
And you have to know, parents are doing this, not only they want to set up the physical space, the house.。
God, parents, parents want to do a home.。
You know, house and home are different, right?。
We have some brothers and sisters moving around in the summer, in the past year,。
moved from house one to another one, and they bought another house,。
or they rent another house and moved to another place.。
Those of you who are students, you move out of your dormitory, and then move to another apartment,。
and then you move from here and there, right?。
Those are house stories, just physical space.。
Now, this is what's interesting to us, because we opened the Bible, Genesis 1.。
God created the heaven and the earth, the entire cosmos.。
And so often, we treat the story, Genesis 1, as a house story.。
We think that God is simply just creating all the physical structures, right?。
That's the planet Earth, and you've got different planets and different stars, and sun and moon, and all that stuff.。
It's all about material that we think about.。
But Genesis 1, the Bible tells us, is not a house story.。
Genesis 1 is a home story.。
God wants to create humankind so that He can enter relationship with those created in His image.。
That is not a house story.。
That's a relational story, right?。
Much like parents preparing the arrival of the child.。
You know what the child needs?。
It's not the physical space. It's not just that.。
It's not just buying stuff for him or her.。
It's the relationship.。
You want a child to be born in a home that is warm and welcoming.。
That is, you find relationship in it, peace in it, love in it.。
That's what Genesis is all about.。
That's what God's creation is all about.。
God created you and me because He wants to enter into a relationship with us.。
So that we can worship Him, and we'll be His people.。
And God's life will dwell among us.。
It will dwell in your heart.。
So God created everything good.。
And as you can tell, if you trace the entire story of the Bible, things didn't go well.。
Quickly, humankind rebelled against God.。
They want to say to God, "You are no longer God. I am the God."。
"We are the gods. We are the little gods. We are the bosses."。
"And we take charge of our own life. You create it for us."。
"No, you don't be our God. We will be our own God."。
And that's why they were in exile.。
And if you trace the entire story of the Bible,。
God is not giving up His desire to dwell among you.。
To dwell in your life.。
You trace the story of Genesis, Exodus, and all that.。
All the Old Testament books.。
God is trying to make His dwelling.。
God is trying to make His home in His people.。
So after Eden, you got Abraham.。
And God called Abraham out to form a nation out of him.。
So that through this nation, Israel, everyone in the world will be blessed.。
In the sense that everyone, every nation, will be brought back to God.。
To His fellowship so that God can live among them.。
So that when Israel was saved by grace from Egypt,。
God was telling them, "I'm going to walk with you."。
"I'm going to be present with you."。
"That's why I have my tabernacle among you."。
The book of Exodus.。
Chapter after chapter.。
Talking about how to build a tabernacle.。
A tabernacle is simply a portable tent.。
A portable home.。
Because they were in wilderness for 40 years.。
And God said, "I'm going to be with you."。
"I'll be your God and you will be my people."。
And then finally they arrived at the promised land.。
The book of Joshua.。
They settled down in the promised land and God fought the battles for them.。
And let them settle down in His good land.。
And finally, ultimately, they arrived at Jerusalem.。
And King David brought the Ark of the Covenant to the capital, Jerusalem.。
And then his son, Solomon, built the first temple.。
And you read the account of the building and dedication of the first temple.。
You find that God's glory filled the earth.。
He filled the entire temple because God finally made His home in His people.。
It was so glorious and everybody saw His glory.。
And of course things didn't go well.。
Soon after, the kingdom split.。
Right?。
And they abandoned God and they followed the false gods.。
They worshipped idols.。
And then finally they brought the end to their nation.。
So Israel was gone.。
And then Judah was gone.。
And then the entire people of God was in exile.。
However, God did not give up.。
God dwelt among the exiled people in Babylon.。
After 70 years of exile, they returned back to the land of promise.。
They returned to Jerusalem.。
And God continued to dwell with them in the second temple.。
And after decades and centuries, God finally showed up.。
It's Jesus.。
Jesus Christ, the Son of God.。
He came and dwelt in His people.。
So that's the first circle.。
That's the first circle.。
And we sinned and we did rebellious things.。
And we're going to set up ourselves as gods.。
And that's why the world has so much suffering.。
The world has so much brokenness.。
I read an article not too long ago.。
It says in the 21st century, mental health has become a crisis and is on the rise.。
Now this is nothing new to you.。
And the article tried to capture what is going on in our broken world because of sin.。
The author said it's brokenness.。
You observe around our world, you see brokenness everywhere.。
Family is fragmented.。
We live in an age, the author said, an age of alienation.。
We are aliens to one another.。
We are separated. We are broken off from one another.。
And most of all, broken from God, our Creator.。
And that's why Jesus came.。
Jesus came and offered a way so that we can come back to the home of God,。
to the relationship of God.。
And whosoever repent and whosoever believe in the name of Jesus,。
our life will be restored.。
And that is what the gospel is all about.。
And because of the gospel, we are recovered, we are reconciled with our Creator,。
the good home, the owner, the Lord of the home.。
And that is what the gospel is.。
Gospel of John 1.14。
"So the Word became human and made His home among us.。
He was full of unfailing love and faithfulness.。
And we have seen His glory, the glory of the Son of God,。
the glory of the Father's one and only Son."。
Pay attention to those words.。
"The Word became human and made His home among us."。
By the way, the original text, the original language,。
"made His home among us" is actually tabernacle.。
He made His tent, His home in the midst of His people.。
That is what the gospel is all about.。
If you yield to God, if you repent and return to God,。
and say yes to God, then God will dwell in your life.。
And you will see His glory.。
And the glory we see is on the cross.。
He came in humility and He died in your place.。
The righteous one became sin for all of us.。
So that He could bear all the wounds and brokenness。
and all the sins on the cross.。
And by the cross we are redeemed.。
And that's what the gospel is all about.。
God wants to dwell in your life, to write His story in your life.。
Back in the 1960s, and I used this illustration last night.。
Back in the 1960s, the Russians,。
they were successful in sending a man to outer space.。
So they sent a man on a rocket, and a man went to outer space,。
and then returned.。
So as the Russian returned, he talked to the news outlet.。
In the news conference, he said, "Oh, we have been to outer space,。
and we didn't find God, or we didn't find heaven.。
So God does not exist."。
That was his conclusion.。
Or maybe God did exist, but He doesn't care about us anymore.。
He's not there anymore.。
So he made this news, this kind of conclusion in the news conference.。
Now back then in the 1970s, '60s, in England,。
there was a literature professor, a Christian theologian.。
His name is C.S. Lewis.。
And C.S. Lewis has been a very good writer, a very creative writer.。
And he responded to the Russian, and he said,。
"So this guy being sent to outer space, and then returned,。
he said this guy is looking for God in the outer space.。
It's kind of like Hamlet looking for Shakespeare in his own world."。
You know Hamlet and Shakespeare?。
How many of you have heard of Shakespeare?。
You did, right? Yeah.。
How many of you read some of the works of Shakespeare?。
Okay, wow, you guys are really educated.。
(Laughter)。
And one of the main characters in one of the plays。
written by Shakespeare is Hamlet.。
It's a character full of life, right?。
A character inside the story of Hamlet,。
and he had to make a lot of decisions, life and death,。
be or not to be, that's the question, that kind of thing, right?。
He went through so much ordeal.。
And Hamlet, think about it, in the story of Hamlet,。
in the world of Hamlet, he has no way to get to know Shakespeare.。
Because if you read the entire story, the entire play of Hamlet,。
you won't find Shakespeare in Hamlet's story.。
So C.S. Lewis was saying,。
"If the guy, the Russian, went to outer space, and then returned,。
he couldn't find God,。
it's kind of like Hamlet looking for Shakespeare in his own world."。
The only way Hamlet can get to know Shakespeare。
is for the author himself to write himself his story。
into the story of Hamlet.。
That is the only way.。
That is the only way for the character to get to know the author。
is for the author to take the initiative。
to write himself into his story.。
You know, if you think about it, what C.S. Lewis has said,。
it's actually the gospel.。
The gospel tells us God enters our world in Jesus。
and meets us where we are.。
He came to live among us, and God literally writes his story,。
writes himself into your story.。
Jesus is willing to humble himself to be known by you。
so that you can have a relationship with God.。
And that's what God desired from the original plan.。
God's desire has always been to live among us。
so that we can worship him.。
John 1:14, "So the Word became flesh,。
became human just like us, and made his own among us."。
I tell you, the world needs to see the glory of God.。
How do they see it?。
See through you that the life of Jesus can live inside of you.。
And the church has a lot we need to do.。
There are so many things we need to do together.。
When we worship together, when we live in Christ together,。
we learn how to love one another,。
we learn how to fellowship with one another,。
to love each other as Christ loves us.。
In this community, then God will be shown.。
Last night we had a sister, Lily.。
She was a devout Buddhist.。
And it's just amazing to hear her story again and again,。
how she came to our church and how she came to know Christ。
because of the community that live out the gospel.。
And let's do that.。
When we worship, when we gather,。
when we form a community in Christ,。
Jesus lives among us and God made his home in the midst of us.。
Let's all pray together.。
And I ask the praise team to come here to sing the last song as a response.。
Father, we give you thanks because of your desire to be with us.。
And you humble yourself in your son, Jesus Christ,。
to write yourself in our story.。
Thank you for being our living God.。
May our community continue to display your glory,。
to tell the world that you are real,。
to tell the world that you are in our midst.。
Thank you. In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
