Today, we're going to begin our series on faith and time.。
Think about it, your Christian faith, your walk in Christ,。
has so much to do with how you use your time,。
how you mark your calendar, right?。
How you, you know, check the clock.。
Faith and time, they go together.。
Sometimes, we think that Christian faith is all about,。
you know, our verbal confession, what we say.。
Do you believe in Christ?。
Yes, I do.。
Are you a Christian?。
Yes, I am.。
Verbal confirmation.。
Sometimes, we stay on this level.。
Hopefully, this will match what our heart says, right?。
Otherwise, it means nothing to all of us。
and means nothing to you.。
But, you know, think deeply about faith.。
Ask yourself whether your faith is biblical or not.。
Because, you know, you can invent。
your own version of Christianity, right?。
There's so many examples in the Bible,。
or, you know, outside of the Bible, in church history.。
People would create their own faith,。
create their own version of Christian faith.。
And they end up, you know,。
deviating from the teaching of Christ.。
That's why in Christianity, in biblical faith,。
it's the faith of book.。
You know, have you ever wondered?。
There's so many religions out there.。
They don't care much about, there's one book。
defining what they do and what they think。
and what they believe.。
So many religions in the world,。
so many worldviews in the world,。
even a religious worldview,。
they don't really have some sort of standard, right?。
It's pretty much anything goes.。
You like to define your faith,。
you like to set a standard for your faith,。
you know, it's all up to you.。
It's like going to Whole Foods, right?。
You go to Whole Foods and you pick and choose, right?。
Whatever you want, or whatever you feel like.。
Now, this kind of Whole Foods, you know, faith,。
has nothing to do with biblical faith.。
It has nothing to do with the Bible.。
So think deeply about it.。
Even you profess to be a Christian,。
even you were baptized, right?。
Couple weeks ago, we just returned from Israel。
and some of my team members,。
they were baptized in the River Jordan.。
You talk about holy water, it's right there.。
You know, everyone wants to, you know,。
get baptized there, right?。
There's something special about it.。
Even you do that, it really doesn't mean,。
or not necessarily mean that you follow Christ.。
Think deeper in your faith, you know, think deeper.。
Because it's dangerous to come to the Bible,。
come to God, as if we go to Whole Foods,。
to pick and choose, you know, according to our own choices.。
That's why we need to think deeply。
about what faith really means.。
Faith and time, I want you to think about in this series.。
Faith and your time.。
What does it mean to follow Christ。
when it comes to how you use your time。
and how you see time?。
So this series is on faith and time.。
And we'd like to pick some of the passages,。
some of the content from the Bible。
that talks about biblical faith and time and festivals.。
There are certain markers in the Bible,。
especially in the Old Testament and New Testament as well.。
During the week, during the month, during the whole year,。
there are special markers, there are special dates。
during the year, during the month, during the week,。
that marks the grace of God,。
that tells the people of God, "You have to worship me.。
"You have to remember something。
"about your Christian journey.。
"You have to think about and to be reminded。
"your experiences of God."。
So think about dates, some of the dates。
that appear in the Bible that has to do。
with walking in the faith of God.。
And think about time, we are beings in time.。
We are all controlled by time.。
We are all managing our time.。
Think of birthday, all right?。
How many of you, whose birthday。
are in the month of September?。
Very important month, right?。
Very important month.。
(laughs)。
'Cause my birthday is in September, right?。
How many of you birthdays in, well, what's the date now?。
October, yes, October.。
October, all right, all right, all right.。
We got some hands here.。
So birthday, you know, it's a marker。
in your journey of life, right?。
You mark something important.。
You have done one year, right?。
You have gone through one year.。
And what you look for the next year, right?。
So in birthday, sometimes we have birthday cake.。
Do you know the origin, origin of birthday cake?。
Where did it come from?。
We all have birthday cake on our birthday, right?。
Where does it come from?。
Definitely not in times of Jesus.。
Definitely not in the Bible.。
Well, if you chase the history of birthday cake,。
it actually comes from the Middle Ages,。
when some of the people in Germany,。
they like to make cakes for their kids。
when they celebrate birthday.。
And then, you know, slowly and gradually,。
that tradition builds up, right?。
In the very beginning of the history of birthday cake,。
birthday cake was not very sweet.。
But as it imported to America, you know,。
we add more sugar, right?。
So that's why we have birthday cakes,。
very sweet birthday cake today.。
Think about other times in the year.。
Today is October.。
November.。
Thanksgiving, right?。
What do we do in Thanksgiving?。
Hot pot, right?。
Hot pot. (laughs)。
Hot pot, right?。
Not turkey.。
What is Thanksgiving all about?。
It's kind of like a national cultural story, right?。
How the pilgrims came in their first harvest,。
and then they celebrate the very first time。
God has provided for them, you know.。
That's a kind of a cultural memory,。
or cultural identity, right?。
All Americans, all Americans,。
Asian Americans, all kinds of Americans included,。
we all share that kind of identity, that kind of story.。
Christmas, right?。
December 25th, 24th,。
sign night.。
It's markers of memory,。
to remember something that God has done, right?。
What else?。
Important days during the year.。
Easter, Good Friday, right?。
You gotta remember that, right?。
Because those are the dates。
that reminds you the cross of Jesus,。
what he has done.。
So think about time and your faith.。
You don't wanna forget, right?。
For those who are married,。
you better remember the day of your anniversary, right?。
Sometimes I don't.。
(laughs)。
Forgot, yeah, I forgot, I confess.。
Sometimes I even forget my own birthday.。
So, I'm not very date-driven, you know?。
Sometimes I'm too busy.。
But, you know, it's all because of that.。
We're going through our daily life in busyness,。
you know, being distracted,。
and sometimes life becomes, you know, chaotic.。
That's why there are fixed dates in the calendar。
to remind you in your faith journey.。
So, the Bible has a lot of different dates。
that reminds the people of God。
and what following Christ or what following God。
is all about.。
Deuteronomy 16, 16.。
It says three times a year, three times.。
What are the three times?。
Three times a year, all of you, represented by men,。
must appear before the Lord, your God,。
at the place he would choose.。
You know, eventually it's Jerusalem, the temple.。
At the Feast of Unleavened Bread.。
First time.。
The Feast of Weeks, second time.。
And then the Feast of Tabernacles.。
No one should appear before the Lord empty-handed.。
You gotta bring something.。
Your offering, your sacrifices, your attitude,。
your whole being, each of you must bring a gift。
in proportion to the way your God has blessed you.。
So there are poor people, there are rich people,。
they come three times a year to the temple to worship.。
Right?。
Now, of course, every single week, you know, on Shabbat,。
they will worship.。
That is one of the most important marker of their calendar,。
a weekly reminder, the Shabbat.。
And then three times a year,。
there are three great festivals,。
three great dates that they must remember.。
It's kinda sound like our Good Friday,。
our Easter, and our Christmas.。
Three times a year, they must come before the Lord。
to praise him, to worship him.。
The first one is Feast of Unleavened Bread.。
That equals to Passover.。
Passover, one day, and then seven days afterward,。
they celebrate for seven days and eating unleavened bread.。
Passover.。
We'll talk about that more later.。
The Feast of Weeks, that is seven weeks after Passover.。
The 50th day after Passover is another day of harvest.。
They celebrate the harvest of barley and wheat,。
and wheat and all that.。
In New Testament term, it's Pentecost.。
Pentecost means 50, right?。
So it's the 50th day after Passover.。
That's the second time they must come。
before the Lord in the temple.。
The third time is Feast of Tabernacles.。
Tabernacles falls on the fall, the early fall.。
If you check the morning calendar, if you Google,。
Feast of Tabernacle, 2022, or Sukkot,。
S-U-K-K-O-T, Sukkot, 2022.。
It falls on, what's today?。
October--。
- [Audience Member] Second.。
- Second, right?。
Second, right?。
Sorry, yeah, second.。
The next week, actually, is Sukkot in Israel.。
Sukkot.。
It's the fall festival.。
So three times a year, they must bring something,。
some gift to this important worship opportunity.。
What do they do?。
Let me talk about the Sukkot starting today.。
Let's talk about the third festival,。
because it falls right on next week, right?。
Early October.。
Leviticus 23, 33.。
The Lord said to Moses,。
"Say to the people of God, Israelites,。
"on the 15th day of the seventh month。
"of the Lord's Feast of Tabernacles begins,。
"it lasts for seven days.。
"Live in the Sukkot, in our booths, Tabernacles,。
"for seven days.。
"All native-born Israelites are to live in the booths。
"so your children and your children's children,。
"your descendants, will know that I had。
"the Israelites live in booths。
"when I brought them out of Egypt,。
"through the wilderness, when they live in the desert,。
"when they live in the wilderness.。
"I brought them out of Egypt.。
"I am Yahweh, your God.。
"I am the Lord."。
Now, as I said, it falls on October 9th to 16th this year.。
And I told you last time, my wife and I,。
some years ago, we went to Israel。
for our two weeks vacation,。
and didn't know what festival fall in that two weeks.。
So the first week, it was the Yom Kippur,。
the Day of Atonement, when they confess their sins,。
so they shut down all the whole country, right?。
I told you that.。
And then the following week,。
it's a totally different mood, you know, on the streets,。
because it was the week of tabernacles, sukkot.。
It was a high holiday in Israel.。
It actually is probably one of the most important festivals。
that they celebrate.。
And so we did experience one of their sukkots that year.。
They call it sukkot.。
In Hebrew, that's the word for tabernacle, the tent.。
So during sukkot, we walk around the city,。
and I find it really, really interesting.。
Just like a non-Chinese walks into Chinatown, right?。
Walks into the community of most of the Chinese people.。
They probably would be amazed。
by how we celebrate some of the dates, right?。
How we go about our daily lives, right?。
I used to have a Caucasian professor.。
He told me the first time he went to Chinatown。
when he was a kid.。
So he went to Chinatown, and he looked at one of the stores.。
And the storefront, there's a water tank,。
and there's some fish in there.。
So as a kid, he find it really amazing。
that the fish, live fish, is on display on the street, right?。
He walk into the store, and he find it so sad,。
because people are killing the fish.。
So he was amazed.。
As a white person, he had never experienced。
something like that.。
So kind of a same feeling that I had in sukkot.。
Finding the Jews, they were building different kinds。
of tents on the streets and in the balcony.。
So this is some of the pictures I took during sukkot.。
They built this kind of tent they call sukkah.。
So how do you build a sukkah?。
You need four by eight, some of the four by eight,。
and then you nail them together.。
And then on top of it, you put some branches。
or you put some plants to cover it.。
It's not very permanent, right?。
It's not very strong.。
Actually, if the weather goes bad, it may fall.。
So on the street, they build all kinds of sukkah.。
On the balcony, they build some sukkah.。
So this is what they do, because that's what the Torah says.。
You have to celebrate in the sukkah,。
in the tent, for seven days.。
So what do they do?。
They build some tents outside.。
It has to be outside, not inside your house.。
So they will dine under the tent.。
They will talk under the tent.。
They will drink under the tent.。
Now, it's very interesting, right?。
So we went to Western Wall.。
That is the day before Sukkot.。
So I saw some workers.。
They cut some of the branches from the palm tree,。
and then they were building sukkah.。
Very interesting.。
Building sukkah on Western Wall,。
you know, on the Western Wall Plaza.。
The Western Wall is actually an open-air synagogue,。
so people are meeting there.。
So they're building all these kind of things,。
and it looks like a hut,。
and it's very flimsy.。
But during seven days, they will eat and drink。
and even sleep in the sukkah.。
How many of you like camping trip?。
You know, go out to camping, maybe in Michigan。
or in some other national park.。
How many of you enjoy camping?。
How many enjoy camping?。
You do?。
Okay, then we'll have one hand only.。
Okay, okay, another.。
Okay, all right.。
So you don't like outdoor activities?。
Why not?。
Mosquitoes, right?。
Yeah, and then bugs in, you know, bathroom, right?。
Yeah.。
All right, so you guys are too spoiled.。
Urbanites.。
Too spoiled urbanites.。
I used to like camping, too.。
I used to like camping.。
But as I get older and older, I find myself,。
I can't do this anymore.。
Yeah.。
But you know, when you go camping, you know,。
it's kind of like living in a sukkah, right?。
You sleep in there, you eat in there,。
you play games inside the tent.。
It's kind of fun, right?。
When you were young, right?。
(laughs)。
This is what they do for seven days.。
And if you're not handy, this can be a challenge to you.。
How many of you are really handy here?。
You know, nails, woodworking, and all that.。
How many of you are really handy?。
Or me, okay.。
(audience laughs)。
Yeah.。
But when you think about sukkah,。
it really doesn't require you to be handy.。
Because in the Jewish literature,。
when they talk about building a sukkah,。
they actually dictate that you build a flimsy sukkah,。
temporary sukkah.。
It's okay if it falls.。
Because sukkah does not mean to stand forever.。
They are to be taken down.。
They are temporary dwelling place.。
Why?。
In fact, there's a story in one of the Jewish literatures。
that talks about two Jewish rabbis.。
They were debating how strong。
or how permanent a sukkah should be.。
And the story goes, two rabbis were traveling during sukkah.。
So they were not home.。
They were on a ship.。
They were on a, you know,。
on the Mediterranean Sea.。
During sukkah.。
And they find that, okay, it's time in the year。
to celebrate sukkah.。
So they need to build something, a sukkah, on the ship.。
One of the rabbis,。
he chose to build his sukkah on the deck of the ship.。
And then after he built it,。
during that night, wind came and blew down the sukkah.。
And then the two rabbis were debating,。
"See, how could you build such a flimsy sukkah?"。
Right?。
The wind came and then it fell.。
And the rabbi who built the sukkah on the deck,。
he said, "I built the sukkah the way it's supposed to be.。
"That's what our law says.。
"It has to be fragile.。
"It has to be flimsy."。
The Jewish literature, it's very funny.。
You know, talk about sukkah so much,。
you have to build three walls at least.。
And then you have to build your roof with branches only.。
You know, all sorts of details,。
or building code for the sukkah.。
Now, why did they do that?。
Because sukkah, the tent, the tabernacle,。
is a symbol of life.。
Life is transitional.。
Life is like a shadow.。
Here today, but will be gone tomorrow.。
That's what sukkah is all about.。
Because when the Israelites, when they came out of Egypt,。
they spent 40 years in the wilderness.。
There were no permanent houses in the wilderness.。
There's no stone building in the wilderness.。
All they live in was temporary tents, right?。
And life is always transitional, right?。
Don't you think so?。
Sukkot is a reminder every year。
for the people of God to remind them。
how short their life is, how transitional our life is.。
Don't you think so?。
Life is short.。
Time flies.。
I went to a wedding not too long ago.。
I met some of the students I used to be counselor with.。
You know, now they grew up.。
They got married, right?。
And I met some of the friends,。
you know, some of the students that I used to be with.。
Now they grew up, right?。
They're working, or they have their own career.。
Now, I met different people,。
"Oh, long time no see," right?。
"Wow, long time no see, long time no see."。
You know, that's one of the tunes。
that I play the whole night, right?。
"Oh, long time no see, long time no see."。
It becomes automatic, right?。
Yeah, whoever you see, "Oh, long time no see," right?。
Because I haven't seen them for a long time,。
especially in the past three years because of the pandemic.。
I haven't seen those friends for a long, long time, right?。
So, and the other tune that we play, or I play,。
most of the time during the night, during the banquet,。
was that, "Wow, your kid is so big now.。
"Wow, you," talking to the kids,。
"Wow, you're so tall.。
"When I saw you last time, you were like, you know,。
"a tiny, tiny being, right?。
"Now you're so big," right?。
Then they, and then we update each other,。
and then I told them, you know,。
my son and my daughters are in college,。
and they say, "Wow, dang, I cannot believe that。
"because, you know, in my mind,。
"your kids are just kids," right?。
I said, "They're not kids, they're adults now.。
"They drive, they drink, they're adults."。
Life is fleeting, life is so short.。
That is one of the things we hear over and over again.。
Time flies.。
Sukkot, it's a reminder。
that your life is not permanent.。
Don't make it permanent.。
There's no need to make it permanent.。
But, you know, it's very interesting.。
Sometimes we spend most of our effort。
to make life permanent.。
Try to make it permanent.。
Try to make it look like it lasts forever.。
Sukkot tells you, "Don't pretend.。
"You can't do that.。
"Life is not permanent, it's transitional."。
And how much we invest in our lives,。
how much effort, how much thinking。
have we invest into just planning our life,。
building our life, it seems like our Sukkot。
would last forever.。
But no, it won't.。
Life is always transitional.。
You know, one of the scriptures。
the Jewish people would read during Sukkot。
in the synagogues is the book of Ecclesiastes.。
Ecclesiastes.。
If you haven't read this book,。
the book of Ecclesiastes in the Old Testament,。
you should read it.。
It talks about life under the sun.。
It's meaningless.。
Because of death.。
Because of death.。
And one day, we're gonna die, right?。
And the whole book of Ecclesiastes is to remind us。
where should we find meaning in our lives.。
Let me close with this last scripture.。
The Lord said to Moses, "On the 15th day of seven months,。
"the Feast of Sukkot lasts for seven days.。
"You live in Sukkah for seven days, all of you,。
"so that your children and your children's children。
"will know that you used to live in Sukkah,。
"in wilderness for 40 years.。
"I rescue you.。
"I provide for you.。
"I guide your way.。
"Your short life is under the hand of God."。
Well, a reminder for us, life is transitional.。
And how much effort should we invest。
into something really eternal, right?。
Something really eternal.。
C.S. Lewis says something like,。
do not, something like do not,。
do not stress out for things that are not eternal.。
Do not be so stressed out about things that don't last.。
Change our attitude.。
You know, adjust our orientation.。
What is life all about?。
Especially we have the life of Christ.。
How should we invest our time in this short, short life?。
Invest into something that will last.。
Now, what will last in the Bible?。
Let me tell you this, okay?。
What will last in the Bible?。
I can think of three things。
that will last forever in the Bible.。
First, God himself.。
God himself is everlasting.。
All right?。
Second, is the soul, human soul.。
Human life will last forever, eternal life, right?。
Three, the gospel.。
Last forever.。
Worth our effort, worth our investment.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we give you thanks for the reminder。
that we are in Christ,。
that we have eternal life and eternal hope.。
And thank you for your grace.。
Thank you for the gift of eternal life.。
Remind us once and again, again and again,。
that this life is short.。
This life will not last.。
Yes, we are all like Israelites living in tents。
in the wilderness.。
When wind came, everything would be gone.。
Yes, life is transitional,。
but help us to anchor our life in eternity.。
Help us to fix our eyes。
in something that will last,。
to preach your gospel,。
to build up your kingdom, to serve you.。
Thank you for being our eternal God.。
In Christ's name, we pray.。
Well, thank you very much and we'll see you next week。
and we'll continue to talk about faith and time.。
God bless.。
