Good morning/afternoonish, I'm Yuvi. It's good to see a lot of you again.。
So welcome back to church and to worship with us.。
Okay, so every year, one of the biggest sporting events that we have in the US is the Super Bowl, right?。
And this year, it is estimated about 127 million viewers tune in for the Super Bowl in New Orleans.。
And this is probably on the more conservative ends as well, because I would assume there are probably a lot of Super Bowl watch parties that are going on.。
And we actually have one here right at UV as well, and I know some of you were here with us that night.。
So for some people, they tune in to the Super Bowl because they are the fans of the game, or they are fans of either of those teams.。
But for another group of people, they tune in to the Super Bowl because of the commercials, but more importantly, because of the halftime show.。
Do any of you fall into this second category? I'm sure there are some of us that belong to that group, right?。
So the halftime show for the Super Bowl this year was headlined by Kendrick Lamar, who is arguably one of the biggest names in the hip-hop scene.。
And if you actually pay close attention to his halftime show performance this year, all the way from the stage design, the Uncle Sam persona by Samuel L. Jackson,。
the dancers that are dressed in the colors of American flags, and even the reference to 40 acres and a mule, just to name a few of those.。
His performance was actually a creative blend of high-level entertainment that is accompanied by deep social and political commentary,。
where he addresses issues such as racial inequalities in our nation's history, and also cultural identity being in America.。
But the pivotal moment for Kendrick Lamar's halftime show performance was when he performed his award-winning Grammy Song of the Year called "Not Like Us."。
This song is a diss track targeting another raper called Drake.。
So this feud between Kendrick Lamar and Drake has been going on for quite some time now.。
But by performing this particular song in the Super Bowl, Kendrick Lamar brought the ongoing personal but public rivalry between him and Drake。
all the way to the biggest stage of the world and put it on display for everyone to see, pretty much.。
However, this kind of public rivalry and conflict does not only happen in our pop culture.。
The sad reality is that it happens within the church as well.。
If you just look at the church histories, there is the Great Schism in 1054 AD,。
where a split happened between the church with the Roman Catholic Church in the west and the Eastern Orthodox Church in the east.。
There's also the Protestant Reformation, which eventually led to the Thirty Years' War between the Catholic and Protestant states in Europe as well.。
A couple of weeks ago, I saw a Facebook post from one of the biggest Christian evangelical organizations in the U.S., I think.。
Basically, the post is kind of like critiquing the ministry and the work of another pastor who is from a different theological tradition.。
And as you can imagine, the comment section pretty much just becomes a place for public, virtual arguments between these two sides of people.。
So why did I bring this up? These examples are just a snippet of what is going on in our current world.。
Even now, as I'm speaking, there is the war happening in Gaza in the Middle East.。
And we're also entering into the third anniversary of the war that is happening between Ukraine and Russia as well.。
And if you have been following along the news, especially with the meeting between President Trump and President Zelensky,。
please pray for the leaders of our country that they will care for the things that Jesus truly cared about, for justice and peace,。
not to show our strength or fall into kind of like the lies of American exceptionalism.。
But with the ever-increasing division in our society, including within our church, how should we as followers of Jesus respond?。
We have been studying through Jesus' Sermon on the Mount for the past couple of months now,。
and I think the Sermon on the Mount is especially relevant to the cultural moment that we are currently in.。
Because in it, Jesus lays out how life in his kingdom ought to look like and how we, as believers, can take part of it.。
So in my first sermon, we look at the Beatitudes in which Jesus describes the attitude or character of those who are considered as blessed in his kingdom.。
And one of them is this, "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God."。
To understand what a peacemaker is, we need to first understand what peace is exactly.。
For a lot of us, when we think about peace, we just think of the absence of conflict, right?。
Maybe you live with a couple of roommates. One of them, they just like to leave all the dishes in the sink unwashed.。
And another one of them, maybe they just like to leave the dirty clothes in the washer or dryer for weeks.。
And when you have to use it, you just open it up and say, "Well, I guess I have to wait for the dirty clothes to get cleared out first."。
And maybe for you, peace is not confronting them with those issues, even though inside of you, you don't really experience peace at all.。
But because for you, peace is just the absence of any sort of conflict.。
But the idea of peace in the Bible is more than just the absence of conflict.。
It also means the presence of something better.。
In the Old Testament, the word for peace in Hebrew is "shalom."。
And shalom represents a state of being whole or being complete, in contrast to the state of chaos, brokenness, or disorder.。
And this is why the Jews, they usually greet each other with "shalom," hope you are doing well.。
And when we come to the New Testament, the birth of Jesus is being announced as the arrival of peace, or "erene," in Greek, on earth.。
Why? Because through Jesus, he made peace between sinful human and a holy God through his death and resurrection.。
Or in other words, Jesus restores a broken relationship between human and God that has been tainted by sin since the beginning in Genesis, back to wholeness.。
And not only that, he now calls his followers to do the same, to carry on this peace into the world.。
So, to be a peacemaker doesn't just mean that we do our best to avoid conflict.。
If you see a brother or sister living in sin, false peace might look like this, not calling them out, because you want to avoid any confrontation and conflict.。
But true peace, on the other hand, would mean pointing out their blind spots because you love this brother or sister, and you want to see them experience true shalom or wholeness.。
So, the section in the Sermon on the Mount that we're currently in explores the better righteousness that Jesus has redefined for his followers.。
So far, we have looked at how Jesus redefined his greater righteousness, and we discovered God's heart behind the sixth and the seventh commandments in the Ten Commandments, right?。
That is the kind of attitude in our hearts that treats everyone made in the image of God as worthy to be respected.。
So, if you can recall, similar to murder, Jesus said that when we show anger or contempt towards a brother or sister, we diminish the value and worth of someone made in the image of God.。
And similar to adultery, when we lust after a brother or sister, we strip them of their humanity and turn them into an object for our own gratification.。
And in my last sermon, we also look at how Jesus refrains kind of like the Jewish debate on divorce, and instead he shifts the focus on God's original design for marriage instead.。
So, this morning, we're going to look at two more examples on how Jesus redefines what true righteousness means in contrast to the righteousness of the Pharisees and the teacher of the law.。
So, if you have your Bible with you, let's turn with me to Matthew chapter 5. We are going to read from verse 33 to 42.。
So, Matthew chapter 5, verse 33.。
"Again, you have heard that it was said to the people long ago, 'Do not break oath, but fulfill to the Lord the vows you have made.' But I tell you, do not swear an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is God's throne, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king.。
And do not swear by your head, for you cannot make even one hair white or black. All you need to say is simply 'yes' or 'no,' and anything beyond this comes from the evil one."。
Verse 38.。
"You have heard that it was said, 'Eye for eye and tooth for tooth.' But I tell you, do not resist an evil person. If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn them the other cheek also. And if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, hand over your coat as well.。
If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles. Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you."。
So, this is the word of God. Let us pray.。
Father, as we open up your words this morning, I just ask that your Spirit will be with us. Prepare our hearts as we receive your words, and allow your words to take root in our heart and transform our life, so that we can bring honor and glory to you through the way that we live.。
So, pray this in your Son's name. Amen.。
So, Matthew chapter 5, 33 and 242. What is it about?。
If you are taking notes, you can write this down.。
"In a fragmented world, we are called to bring peace through our word and deed."。
So, this is the idea that we will be exploring today.。
In a world where people are divided based on their skin colors, based on their economic status, based on their political ideologies, or beliefs in health or science, and so many other things that disunites us,。
we, as followers of Jesus, are called to bring peace through our word and deed.。
So, we're going to first take a look at how we can bring peace through our words.。
So, we bring peace through our words by speaking truthfully and with integrity.。
We bring peace by speaking truthfully and with integrity.。
So, verse 33. "Again, you have heard that it was said."。
So, once again, these examples begin with this same rabbinic formula.。
"You have heard that it was said to the people long ago."。
And just to give a refresher, every time when a Jewish rabbi wants to start a discussion on a specific Mosaic law, they would introduce it using this formula.。
So, Jesus, as the definite and ultimate interpreter of the law, Jesus is doing the same thing right here.。
And the law that is in focus this time centers around oath-making.。
So, "Do not break your oath, but fulfill to the Lord the vows you have made."。
This is not a direct quotation, but it is actually a summary of a series of law regarding oath from the Old Testament.。
Nowadays, we would probably hear people say something like, "I swear to God," and then go on to give their statement, right?。
But oath in the ancient world, and even during Jesus' times, looks a little different than what we're used to now.。
And they probably carry a little more weight as well.。
So, let me give a little context to oath in the ancient world.。
So, in the ancient Near East, people would invoke or call upon the name of their gods as a witness to affirm a statement.。
And one of the ways that oath can give credibility to a promise or to a statement is by having some kind of curses or consequences being attached to it in the case of dishonesty.。
So, for example, someone will make an oath and swear, "I swear that may Marduk or Baal or insert whatever God's name in there,。
may this God strike me dead or make me ill if I break this oath or if I do not follow along with this promise."。
And for the people of God, of course, they would invoke upon the name of the Lord or Yahweh when they make their oath.。
And so this is what Jesus is pointing to here in verse 33 on how the Jews and the custom are when it comes to oath making.。
And as you can probably expect at this point, Jesus then continues on to give his version and redefine what true righteousness means with this interpretation.。
"But I tell you, do not swear an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is God's throne, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king.。
And do not swear by your head, for you cannot make even one hair white or black."。
So let's pause here. What is going on in here?。
So during Jesus' time, the Jews, they would not mention the name of the Lord because out of reverence and out of respect for it.。
So instead, what they would do is that they would use other things that are being associated with God when they make an oath.。
So the heaven, the earth, or the city of Jerusalem are just three of the common realms that the Jews would call upon when they make the oath.。
But what Jesus is saying right here is that, "Don't swear by the heaven or by the earth, for they belong to God the creator, not us as human.。
And also, don't call upon Jerusalem, because it is God's city. It is not for us to call upon or for us to control or invoke."。
And just in case someone asks, "Okay, Jesus, what if I just swear on my own head? It is part of my body. I should have control over it, right?"。
Well, Jesus says, "No, God has authority over us as well.。
We do not have the power to even turn our hair white, which symbolizes old age and wisdom, or turn them black, which symbolizes youth and life."。
So, one thing to note here, when Jesus says, "Do not swear an oath at all,"。
he is not nullifying old oaths because we find in other parts of the New Testament where God himself makes an oath in the books of Hebrews,。
and so does Paul in some of his epistles as well.。
What Jesus is prohibiting here is the kind of superficial and flippant oath made on seemingly ordinary or insignificant issues,。
and sometimes even worse, blatantly false claims or conspiracies.。
And what is wrong with all of these?。
At the root of these is a kind of attitude that thinks that we, as human, we have the authority to manipulate God for our own benefits,。
using God's reputation as a tool to lend credibility to our own statement or our own words.。
So what should we do then? This is where verse 37 comes in.。
And Jesus said, "All you need to say is simply yes or no, and anything beyond this comes from the evil one."。
So, rather than relying on oath, Jesus called us to speak truthfully in all circumstances,。
and anchor the truthfulness of our words in our personal integrity.。
So let our yes be yes, and let our no be no. Live up to your own promises and stand by your own words.。
Do not use oath as an excuse for not taking any responsibility for the words that comes out of our mouth,。
because these come from Satan.。
And so here are just some of the applications that how we can speak truthfully with our words.。
So first one, speak with integrity and do not use our words to slander other people.。
Secondly, in a digital age, we communicate not just true words spoken, but also true words written or words typed up, right?。
Especially in the age of social media.。
So, how we can bring peace with our words?。
Discern the information that you have heard or read online, and do not be quick to spread them around,。
or repost anything that you see online that has the potential to further divide us instead of uniting us.。
This is because as followers of Jesus, we are called to bring peace through our words.。
So, speak truthfully and with integrity.。
And as the Apostle Paul instructed the church in Ephesus, do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouth,。
but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen.。
So, this is how we can bring peace through our words.。
Another way that we can bring peace is through our actions or through our deeds.。
We can bring peace by acting selflessly and generously.。
So, let's take a look at the next example from Jesus here.。
Verse 38.。
"You have heard that it was said, 'Eye for eye and tooth for tooth.'。
But I tell you, do not resist an evil person.。
If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn them the other cheek also.。
And if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, hand over your coat as well.。
And if anyone wants to, and if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles.。
Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you."。
So, the principle right here, an eye for an eye or tooth for a tooth, is actually called the law of retribution.。
And we actually find it in various places in the Old Testament.。
And in the Old Testament, this principle of justice is not about personal retribution or personal vengeance,。
but it is actually about regulating excessive punishment.。
In other words, it doesn't mean that if someone takes one of your eyes,。
now you have the legal right to take your eyes out.。
No, the purpose of this principle is to regulate the penalty by saying that the punishment should fit the crime.。
So, for example, if someone knocks a tooth out of your mouth,。
you can't just end your life and take your life by killing them.。
Because the punishment, again, it doesn't fit the crime.。
And by making this law in the legal system, it actually provides an appropriate avenue。
where people can pursue justice in a legal way instead of personal vengeance or personal revenge.。
But once again, Jesus continues to say, "But I tell you, do not resist an evil person."。
I want to be careful here because someone can hear this and think,。
"Is Jesus just telling us to just sit there and ignore the need for justice?。
Or when we see evil being done, do we just sort of let it go and not resist it at all?"。
So again, I want to emphasize that in this particular section,。
when Jesus talks about not resisting an evil person,。
Jesus is not rejecting the principle of justice at all,。
but he is speaking on retaliation and revenge at a personal level.。
So what Jesus is not saying here is that we do not resist evil at all.。
1 Peter 5 says that the devil is like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour.。
And we, as God's people, we are called to resist him.。
What Jesus is not saying here is also that we do not call out or oppose evil.。
Time and time again in the Old Testament,。
we see that the prophets actually calls out the evil and the injustice that is happening in Israel。
and the surrounding nations as well.。
And in the New Testament, we also see the apostle Paul actually calls out Peter。
because Peter is not acting in a way that is in line with the truth of the gospel.。
And right here, Jesus is also not talking about justice in the legal system or in the government.。
Romans 13 is pretty clear.。
It shows us that God has given his authority to the government to execute justice on his behalf.。
So right here, Jesus is calling us to let go of our right to get even or to repay violence with violence,。
but to depend on the ultimate justice of God.。
And I know this is not easy at all because it requires patience on our behalf.。
It requires us to wait on the Lord.。
But not only that, we are also called to repay evil with good.。
And Jesus actually gives a few illustrations here.。
So the first one, "If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to them the other cheek also."。
So throughout history, the right hand is usually the more dominant hand for most people, right?。
So to slap someone on the right cheek will be a backhand slap, pretty much like this way.。
And in the first century context, a backhand slap is actually meant to be an insult to humiliate someone。
that usually has a lower social status compared to you,。
while a forehand slap is usually for a peer or someone who has equal status with you.。
And so in this situation, Jesus tells his disciple to turn the other cheek,。
to take the high road and be humiliated rather than to take revenge.。
And I actually like how one of the commentators put it.。
He says, "When we turn the other cheek, we force them to treat us as equal。
because they will have to slap us with their forehand this time instead of the backhand."。
And in the second example, Jesus said, "And if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt,。
hand over your coat as well."。
So shirt during Jesus' time is usually an inner garment and the coat is the outer garment.。
And compared to the shirt, the coat, which is the outer garment, is usually the more important one。
because it is used not just as a protective layer from the elements,。
but it can also be used as a blanket or a makeshift shelter。
when someone needs to sleep in the field on the long road trips.。
And in Exodus specifically, the law also states that even the poor people。
should have the right to keep their coat.。
But in these examples that Jesus gave us here,。
the better righteousness would be to relinquish the more important possession,。
which is the coat, and to treat the injustice with costly generosity.。
And in the third case, Jesus said, "If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles."。
And again, you need a little context to understand this.。
So in the Greco-Roman world, a civilian is actually obligated by the law。
to carry the load of a Roman soldier for about one mile if they're being requested.。
And for the Jews, they hated this practice.。
But again, Jesus shows his disciples the better way by telling them to go the extra mile,。
even though they hated this practice.。
Instead of getting stuck in the cycle of repaying evil with evil,。
Jesus calls us to respond with generosity.。
Then Jesus sums up this section in verse 42,。
"Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you."。
So all the things that Jesus asks from us here requires a kind of humility and selflessness, right?。
To not only release our right to get even with someone,。
but also to respond to the injustice or the evil with kindness and generosity.。
If we really think about it, what Jesus is asking from us here is quite a tall task, right?。
Maybe some of you would say, "Jesus, you don't really understand the injustice that I have to endure,。
or you don't understand the things that are being done to me."。
One of the passages that has had the biggest impact in my personal life these past few years。
is from Hebrews chapter 4.。
Talking about Jesus, the author of Hebrews say,。
"For we do not have a great high priest who is unable to empathize with our weakness,。
but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, yet he did not sin."。
So what Jesus has taught us here, he did not just say it,。
but he himself embodied this kind of humility and selflessness for us to follow.。
In Jesus' arrest and trial, we read that he was being spat on, he was being struck,。
he was being falsely accused, and he was ultimately being humiliated on the cross.。
And yet, one of his final words on the cross is this, and I want us to listen carefully.。
This is what Jesus prayed to his father.。
He said, "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing."。
So church, Jesus shows us the perfect examples of humility and selflessness,。
both through his words and his action,。
so that he's able to bring peace between God and human, as well as between human and human as well.。
So if we, as the church, were able to exemplify this kind of costly generosity,。
I think the watching world would start to take notice of the way that we treat each other,。
and also the out-of-the-world kind of peace that we have.。
And this, church, I think can be one of the most powerful witnesses to the kingdom of God。
in our fragmented society.。
So, let's pray.。
Father, we thank you for you have sent your son Jesus。
to bring peace and to restore the shalom that was being broken by sin.。
And not only that, you have given us the gift of the Holy Spirit。
so that we're able to live in a way that follows after your examples.。
So, Father, I don't know what are some of the things that are going through our minds currently.。
Maybe some of the evils that we have experienced,。
or the things that are being said or done to us,。
or the injustice that we see in the world that just seems like no justice is being done.。
So, Father, help us as we wait patiently for your ultimate justice when you come again.。
Help us to be people that represent your kingdom,。
that represent what you have called us to be, to be the peacemaker.。
For you promised that your kingdom belongs to people like this,。
and that we will be called the sons and the daughters of God.。
So, help us to be people that bring peace to our families,。
to our relationships, to our workplace, to wherever you have called us,。
so that we're able to show the world who we belong to.。
We're able to show the world who Jesus truly is, the Prince of Peace.。
So, Father, help us to live in a way that brings glory to you this week.。
Praise the Lord, Amen.。
Okay.。
