Okay. All right. So, if you've ever gone on a hiking trip up a mountain before, I think。
for most people, usually the hike up or the ascent is the more challenging part compared。
to the hike down or the descent, right? But statistically speaking, most hiking or mountaineering。
accidents actually happens not on the way up, but actually on the way down. Why is this。
the case?。
如果大家经常去爬山呢,我想对大部分人来说,上山通常比下山会更辛苦。。
但是从数据统计来看呢,大多数登山或者是攀爬的意外,其实并不是发生在上山的时候。。
而是发生在下山的时候。那为什么会这样呢?。
One of the major reasons is that once you get to the summit, when your goal is achieved,。
your adrenaline slowly fades away and physical exhaustion begins to catch up on you. And psychologically,。
your attention span and also mental awareness also begin to slip. And so all of these factors。
become a recipe for disaster on the way down, because just one little misstep or a little。
slip is enough to lead to serious injuries or even death in some cases.。
其中一个最主要的原因是,当你到达山顶,目标完成之后呢,。
肾上腺素会慢慢消退,身体的疲惫才开始追上你。在心理上,。
你的专注力和警觉性也开始松懈下来。这些因素加在一起,。
就成了下山路上出事的隐患。因为只要一次踏空,一次滑倒,。
就足以造成严重的受伤,甚至在某些情况下会致命。。
And this pattern is actually not just limited within the hiking or mountaineering space,。
but it can happen to our spiritual life as well. One of the best pieces of advice that。
I receive as a pastor and a minister is that Sunday afternoon is the most dangerous hours。
for a pastor. Why? Because after the peak of ministry on a Sunday morning, whether it。
is preaching, teaching Sunday school, leading worship, or connecting with newcomers, once。
you get home in the afternoon, you start to feel physically and mentally exhausted. I'm。
sure our pastoral team can agree with that. And this vulnerable moment is exactly when。
the devil can come and tempt us to sin.。
而这个规律呢不只是发生在登山的时候,它也会发生在我们的属灵生命里。。
作为一个传道人,我受到过最好的一个提醒就是,在每个主日的。
下午是传道人最危险的一段时间。 因为在主日早上侍奉的高峰。
过后,不论是讲道,教主日学,还是带敬拜之后,当你下午回。
到家的时候,你会开始感到身体和心里都非常的疲惫。 而正是。
在这个软弱的时刻,魔鬼往往就会来引诱我们犯罪。。
And so the reality is that most of the time, the hard part is never as over as we think.。
And this is exactly what happens to our passage today for Gideon.。
事实上很多时候,那困难的部分并没有像我们以为那样的已经过去了。。
而这正是今天这段经文里,鸡殿所经历的。。
If you have been following along the story of Gideon or the cycle of Gideon with us, we。
begin with his origin story, where the angel of the Lord came to him while he was threshing。
wheat, not on the threshing floor, but hiding inside a wine press, because he was fearful。
of the Midianites who would come and just raid him.。
如果你一直有跟着我们看鸡殿的故事,我们从他的起源故事开始的。。
耶和华的使者向他显现的时候,他正在打麦子,但他不是在麦场上打,。
而是躲在酒栅里打,因为他惧怕那些会来抢夺他的米殿人。。
And then in my last sermon, we look at sort of the climax of Gideon's life, as he led。
the people of Israel to defeat the Midianites.。
But one important detail is that this battle is won not because of human strength, but because。
of the Lord alone.。
And this is why the Lord intentionally strips Gideon's army down from 32,000 to just 300。
men, so that the glory would clearly belong to the Lord.。
在我上一次的讲道中,我们看到了鸡殿生命的高峰,他带领以色列人。
打败了米殿人,但有一个很重要的细节,这场仗得胜并不是。
因为人的力量,而是单单因为耶和华。。
这也是为什么耶和华特意把鸡殿的军队从三万两千人减到。
只剩三百人,好让一切的荣耀都清清楚楚地归给耶和华。。
And so today we are going to look at the end of Gideon's story.。
However, this long way down after the peak of defeating the Midianites for Gideon is not。
something that we might expect it.。
And so to feel the weight of this ending, we have to zoom out and situate the story of。
Gideon within the entire book of Judges.。
So the book of Judges shows a long and complex trajectory of Israel's slow descent towards。
moral and spiritual downfall.。
And this is being presented through this repeating cycle of Israel's sins, God's hand them。
over to an oppressor, and then they cry out to the Lord, God raises up a Judges for them。
to deliver them, and then the land had rest.。
And then they will do it all over again.。
And so in some way it is like a spiral going downward, but each time around Israel ends。
up worse than before.。
And as for the major Judges that the Lord had raised to save Israel, their personal。
life serve as an indicator of the level of Israel's moral and spiritual corruption.。
And so the earlier Judges that we look at, Othniel, Ehud, Deborah, and Barak, they all。
come from solid or somewhat acceptable backgrounds, and things return to normal after them.。
But Gideon, he is the first major Judge who shows some disturbing weakness, and the religious。
deterioration of Israel from Gideon onwards becomes so much more apparent.。
So the passage that we will be looking at today, Judges 8, is a very significant moment。
in the entire book, because it is the pivot point where Israel's spiritual downfall begins。
to spiral out of control.。
And Gideon's personal dissent at the end of his life is a glimpse into a larger issue。
looming over the entire nation of Israel.。
So the question that our passage presents to us today is not just what led to Gideon's。
downfall after the Lord has used him so mightily, but more than that, it requires us to ask。
ourselves honestly, how does anyone, or how do we, start so well and yet drifted so far。
on the way down?。
So let's look at our passage together, beginning in verse 22.。
And this actually comes right after Gideon had just executed the two kings of Midian.。
(translation being made)。
So verse 22, "The Israelites say to Gideon, 'Rule over us, you, your son, and your grandson,。
because you have saved us from the hand of Midian.'。
But Gideon told them, 'I will not rule over you, nor will my son rule over you.。
The Lord will rule over you.'。
(translation being made)。
So after seeing this heroic performance of Gideon, the people of Israel, they cannot。
wait to make him the king and offer him a dynasty, right, and say, "Rule over us, you,。
your son, and your grandson."。
And this is problematic, because up to this point in Israel history, Israel is a theocracy,。
which means that they are under the divine rule of God and not human kings.。
(translation being made)。
And the reasoning is, "You," referring to Gideon, "because you have saved us."。
So do you notice any issue here?。
(translation being made)。
In this Gideon cycle alone, in these past two chapters, the word "save" has appeared。
six times already.。
And every single time, it points to the same thing.。
It is the Lord who saves Israel.。
And so to credit Gideon as their savior is actually one small step from Israel claiming。
that they themselves have saved them, exactly as the Lord has warned them earlier in Judges。
7.。
And if you recall from my last sermon, this is exactly the reason why God reduced Gideon's。
men down to just 300 before they fight the Midianites.。
(translation being made)。
But to give Gideon a little credit, he actually gave a theologically correct response.。
He says, "The Lord will rule over you, not me."。
If the one who saved is entitled to rule, then this rule belongs to the Lord alone because。
He is the one who saves Israel.。
(translation being made)。
However, here comes the irony.。
Even though with his mouth, he rejects this offer to be their king and acknowledges that。
God alone is worthy to rule, his action actually tells a different story.。
(translation being made)。
Ever since Gideon has crossed over the Jordan River after he defeated the Midianites earlier。
in this chapter, he has been acting more and more like a king, pursuing a personal vengeance。
against Zeba and Zamuna, which is these two kings of Midian, and dispensing his own justice。
towards these two towns called Sukkoth and Penuel, because they are not willing to provide。
bread for Gideon and his men while they pursue the Midianite kings.。
(translation being made)。
And so, church, it is possible to have the right theology or know the right answer to。
respond, and yet our actions and the fruits in our lives tells a completely different。
story.。
(translation being made)。
We may confess that Jesus is our Lord, and yet we make our decisions based primarily。
on our comfort, our success, our money, instead of his will.。
(translation being made)。
We may say that we trust God, and yet we live in constant anxiety, as though everything。
depends entirely on us.。
(translation being made)。
We believe that God has forgiven us already, and yet we refuse to forgive someone who has。
hurt us.。
(translation being made)。
So ask ourselves honestly today, is my action consistent with my confession?。
And do I live in such a way that reflects what I say I believe?。
(translation being made)。
And so while Gideon knows the right things to say, that the Lord is king, his life actually。
shows some worrying signs of inconsistency.。
And these signs will lead to full-blown disaster for the entire nations of Israel in the rest。
of our passage.。
So we'll pick it up from verse 24.。
(translation being made)。
And he said to them, "I do have one request, that each of you give me an earring from your。
share of the plunder.。
It was the custom of the Ishmaelites to wear gold earrings."。
They answered, "We will be glad to give them."。
So they spread out a garment, and each of them threw a ring from his plunder onto it.。
(translation being made)。
And the weight of the gold rings he asked for came to 1,700 shekels, not counting the。
ornaments, the pendants, and the purple garments worn by the kings of Midian, or the chains。
that were on the camel's neck.。
And Gideon made the gold into an ephod, which he placed in Ephra, his town.。
And all Israel prostituted themselves by worshiping it there.。
And it became a snare to Gideon and his family.。
(translation being made)。
So, after rejecting Israel's offer to be king, Gideon instead, he asked for gold earrings。
from the plunder, and it totaled up to 1,700 shekels, which is about 43 pounds of gold.。
He then melted them into an ephod and set it up in Ephra, which is exactly the same。
place where the angel of the Lord initially appeared to Gideon and called him to deliver。
Israel, as well as the place where Gideon actually built an altar to the Lord in chapter 6.。
And if you're not familiar with what an ephod is, it is basically a sacred garment。
worn by primarily the high priests, and it is usually used as a means of inquiring of。
the Lord or seeking God's guidance.。
So Gideon may have intended this ephod as a symbol of God's rule over Israel, because。
if God is to truly rule, he must be consulted.。
So in other words, he has the right intention.。
But notice the language in verse 27 here.。
It says the ephod is placed, or the more accurate translation is set up, like an idol, rather。
than being worn or used by a high priest.。
So to put it another way, it actually becomes an object of worship rather than an object。
of inquiring the Lord.。
And as a result of this, all Israel, they prostituted themselves by worshiping this。
ephod in Ophrah.。
And so this good intended symbol, Gideon's ephod, ended up becoming the very thing it。
should have pointed beyond, that is the Lord.。
And as we know, it became a snare to Gideon and his family.。
And so for the first time in this book of Judges, the slide back into religious apostasy。
actually begins during the Judge's own lifetime.。
And the Judge himself plays a major role in it.。
So it is actually worth slowing down now and pay attention to how this spiritual downfall。
plays out after such a spiritual high for Gideon.。
It looks like this, a real victory of defeating the Midianites, and then a good sounding intention。
that God is king and let's honor him.。
But then self-reliance creeping in.。
I have a good plan, let's make an ephod.。
And then a good thing turns into an idol and becomes a snare.。
I。
hear a lot of Christians say something along the line like this, that, "Oh, putting my。
faith in Jesus," or, "Oh, getting baptized is the most significant moments in my life,。
or even more important than my own wedding."。
I think that this is absolutely true.。
But I would also like to add that what comes after that is equally as important.。
The decision to deny ourself, to take up our cross, and to follow Jesus every single moment。
of our day.。
Because following Jesus is not just a one-time event or one-time decisions, but it is a daily。
moment by moment surrendering to the Lord.。
For Gideon, even though he achieved this great military feat of defeating the Midianites with。
just 300 men, his spiritual influence unfortunately ended with a tragedy, not just for himself。
or his own family, but also for the entire nation of Israel.。
So while everything seems to take a downturn here in this end of Gideon's narrative, this。
Gideon cycle actually still ends with the conventional ending in Judges.。
So this is it.。
Thus, Midian was subdued before the Israelites and did not raise its heads again.。
During Gideon's lifetime, the land had peace for 40 years.。
So after how badly things went, this ending seems a little out of place or a little awkward。
and too neat, right?。
After such a negative end to Gideon's career as a Judge, the fact that the land still has。
peace for 40 years during Gideon's lifetime, it highlights this one fact, that this is。
clearly an act of divine grace, rather than what Gideon or the people of Israel has achieved。
or what they deserve on their own.。
So this is the main idea that I want us to take away from our passage today, that having。
the right theology or even the right intention is not enough to keep us from drifting away。
in our walk with Jesus.。
Because faithfulness in our Christian life is not measured at the summit.。
It is measured at the finish line.。
And the only thing that can keep us from falling away is never our own strength, but the faithful。
and undeserved grace of God.。
Think about how much Gideon had going for him.。
He has the right words, the right intention, and also a nation delivered by the hand of。
God.。
And yet on the way down, he still stumbled.。
He still became a snare to his own household and to the whole nation of Israel.。
In other words, Gideon was able to deliver Israel from the physical threat outside.。
And yet he is not able to deliver them, and also himself, from the spiritual corruption。
within.。
And this is exactly why we need someone greater than Gideon, a judge who can truly deliver。
us from what is within us, that is our sinful nature.。
And this perfect judge is Jesus.。
For Gideon reached for the crown even while refusing it with his own mouth, Jesus, who。
alone deserved this crown, he did not consider equality with God as something to be used。
to his own advantage.。
And instead, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death。
on the cross.。
That is the most humiliating way.。
But because of the selfless sacrifice, the power of sin no longer has dominion over us.。
And this is the hope that we can have through Jesus.。
So, in a moment, we are going to take communion together as a church, as a response to our。
message today, and to remember what Jesus has done for us at the cross.。
And so in communion, the bread symbolizes the body of Jesus broken for us so that we。
can receive grace upon grace.。
And the cup represents the blood of Jesus poured out for us so that our sins can be。
washed away.。
But before we start, I want to speak to those in the room who might not identify yourself。
as a follower of Jesus yet.。
We appreciate you being here and worshiping with us this morning, but we want to ask that。
you do not partake in the communion with us because taking the bread and the cup is a。
public declaration of one's belief in the work that Jesus has done on their behalf.。
So if you're not ready to commit your life to Jesus yet, I would encourage you to take。
this time instead to reflect and consider what it means to surrender your life to Jesus.。
And if you're ready, you can come up and grab the elements here.。
We have the table right here in the front, and you can grab it and go back to your own。
place.。
, feel free to take the cup and the bread on your own time.。
Let's pray together.。
Father, we thank you that when we could not save ourselves, you sent Jesus to come all。
the way down for us.。
Lord forgive us for the times where our life has not matched up with our words and for。
the moments where we have leaned on our own strength instead of your grace.。
Lord keep us faithful, not just during the difficult or challenging moment of our lives,。
but all the way until we meet you face to face.。
And in your name we pray, Amen.。
Amen.。
All right, church, thank you for.。
