and I'm so glad to be invited back again.。
Last time I talked about art and beauty。
and took far too long.。
And this time, I know I'm supposed to stay。
within 25 minutes.。
So I'm gonna do that.。
That's why I have notes and now I have a clock。
and I have all these things to help me stay on time.。
All right.。
So it's always a pleasure to be here and a delight.。
Today, I'm gonna be talking about the power of storytelling.。
But before we begin, I wanna make sure。
that we talk just a minute。
about why stories are so compelling.。
So what do we get out of stories?。
What's the purpose?。
What purpose do they serve?。
So, one is that it's for enjoyment.。
So it entertains us.。
It lets us escape from our day-to-day stresses.。
Like this book, "Harry Potter,"。
which maybe some of you have read or read the sequels,。
watched all the films, went to the theme park,。
bought an owl and are like crazy fans.。
But pure fun and entertainment.。
You didn't buy an owl?。
Oh yeah, me too, me too.。
And then like a little wand and everything。
and a lightning tattoo.。
(audience member laughing)。
So other times, stories are there to educate us。
so we can learn something new that can improve our lives.。
One book that's been on the New York Times bestseller list。
is this one by Oprah Winfrey.。
So anything by Oprah Winfrey。
usually gets on a bestseller list.。
This book is about trauma and how it lives in our body。
and how we can heal from it.。
Another reason we love stories。
is that stories connect us with other people.。
So it helps us engage,。
has like an emotional attachment to it.。
Perhaps in reading someone else's story,。
we can see a mirror to ourselves。
and know that we're not alone.。
This book is called "Crying in H Mart,"。
and it's about a daughter。
who takes care of her really sick mom。
and is really overwhelmed.。
And one day while grocery shopping,。
can't hold it in anymore.。
So for those of us who have been there,。
we know that when we're so stressed,。
even the most mundane task of grocery shopping。
can feel very daunting or triggering.。
So here we have all these compelling reasons。
to love stories, to read stories, to listen to stories.。
But why, Rebecca, are you here talking about stories?。
So you've been asked to come,。
and as a guest speaker,。
I feel like it's really important。
that I talk about things that I know.。
And Pastor Mark talks about things that he knows.。
And I know a lot about stories。
because I'm an author and I self-published my book.。
And through that process,。
I learned a lot about editing,。
what it means to tell a story well.。
And I wear a lot of different hats professionally.。
So as an educator, as a workshop facilitator,。
if I think about it, story is really the common denominator.。
And everything we do,。
when there's a story attached to it,。
we learn so much better,。
and the lesson is far more meaningful.。
And I've witnessed when people,。
listeners are glued to a storyteller。
because they're just so good.。
And that's just like human-made stories, right?。
Like stories that we write as humans.。
So imagine how much better it could be。
when it's a God-made story.。
And that's what we're gonna talk about today.。
So today, the goal is really to see。
the power of storytelling through Jesus, who's the goat.。
So if you don't know what goat means,。
it means greatest of all time.。
And if you don't think Jesus is the goat storyteller,。
we're gonna go through it,。
and hopefully by the end,。
you're gonna see why he is the greatest of all time.。
So today's story is the parable of the lost sheep.。
Maybe it's familiar to you, maybe it's not.。
Regardless, I hope that you'll see。
that through this simple story,。
that Jesus is really compelling all of us。
to listen well and to learn.。
So a parable in its definition is a short story。
that teaches us a spiritual truth.。
So parable rhymes with fable.。
It's similar to a fable.。
Maybe you've read it or heard the story。
of the tortoise and the hare or the lion and the mouse.。
These teach a moral.。
In a parable, it teaches through a metaphor, usually,。
and it's to apply to our spiritual lives.。
So if you can turn to your Bibles if you have them,。
or on your phone, or read along with me,。
we're in Luke chapter 15, verses one through seven.。
This is the NIV translation.。
Now the tax collectors and sinners。
were all gathering around to hear Jesus,。
but the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered,。
which means that they're grumbling,。
this man welcomes sinners and eats with them.。
Then Jesus told this parable,。
suppose one of you had 100 sheep and loses one of them.。
Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country。
and go after the lost sheep until he finds it?。
And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders。
and goes home.。
Then he calls his friends and neighbors together。
and says, rejoice with me, I found my lost sheep.。
I tell you, in the same way,。
there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner。
who repents over 99 righteous persons。
who don't need to repent.。
So in some translations,。
the word parable means picture story,。
sort of like a comic book or a graphic novel in modern time.。
So I'm gonna lead you through a picture story。
of this very parable.。
So here we have, right, here's a pasture, grassy field,。
here's the setting, and then the owner of the sheep goes,。
hey, go eat some grass.。
Sheep go graze.。
They go graze, they walk around, they roam around,。
they come upon maybe some trees.。
The owner doesn't count, sort of like on a field trip.。
Oh no, one is missing.。
Where's that one?。
Maybe that one is scared, but I also have to leave the 99。
in order to find that one or I can't.。
(laughs)。
Maybe the sheep is calling for the owner.。
The owner finally finds the sheep,。
puts it on his shoulders, is so happy,。
and says, hey everyone, I found my lost sheep.。
Everyone, let's go party.。
So that's my retelling of the story in pictures.。
Now if we think about stories,。
I want us to look at this quote.。
It says, the best stories are the stories。
that any and everyone can understand and relate to.。
So it's a quote from a pretty smart person,。
and that person was my editor for my book that I wrote.。
It's called Moving in Forever,。
and it's a picture book about hospice care.。
So it's a heavy topic, and this is what she would tell me。
all the time when we were working on my book,。
because it's a book that's very personal to me。
about my college roommate who died.。
So I wanted to write every single detail down。
from my perspective, 'cause I felt that was necessary.。
And of course, my perspective。
and all those details are really valid,。
but if I'm to publish this book to make it meaningful。
for other people, other families, other children,。
I have to edit it.。
I have to make it so that any and everyone。
can understand it and relate to it,。
'cause otherwise, the impact will not be there.。
So this is what we're gonna do today.。
We're gonna do a Bible study on this parable,。
but through the lens and eyes of an editor/publisher/writer.。
So we're gonna decide as editors,。
if this story is up to snuff, is it gonna be a hit?。
Is it gonna be a New York Times bestseller or not?。
And how you do this is you have to look at it。
with some level of scrutiny.。
So when my editor looked at my manuscript,。
she made sure that I was okay。
with whatever she's gonna say to me.。
We have to look at it with some level of inspection,。
just like your writing teachers at school。
might be looking at your essays。
and your papers with inspection.。
What do they look for?。
What do editors and publishers look for?。
First, it's like the structure.。
Does it have good bones to a well-written story,。
beginning, middle, and end, and everything in between?。
And does it have the components of a well-written story?。
And it's those two parts that give you。
a story that's good enough, a good story.。
But we're not here in the Bible to look at good stories.。
We're here to look at great stories.。
We're here to be compelled and convicted.。
So these stories need powerful storytelling,。
good and strong storytelling,。
so that it's powerful.。
Otherwise, it's just good enough.。
And Jesus was never just good enough.。
So let's look.。
Let's see if this parable of the lost sheep。
survives our inspection.。
So does it have a structure?。
Does it have the bones?。
Okay, yes, as a beginning,。
we are oriented to the setting where we are.。
The sheep are grazing.。
There is an owner or a shepherd.。
And in every great story, there's a problem.。
The problem is, oh no, one goes missing.。
We don't leave the problem hanging.。
We have to do something about it.。
There has to be an action.。
What are the characters gonna do?。
In this case, they're gonna leave the 99。
and go find that one.。
You keep finding, you keep finding.。
And as listeners and readers, we want a resolution.。
Is there one?。
Yes, finally found the lost sheep.。
Yay!。
And what is the ending about?。
It's what do the characters do。
after the problem's been fixed?。
So now everyone celebrates with the party.。
Okay, the bones are there, check.。
Are the components there in the parable of the lost sheep?。
Is it a good story?。
Well, we have the characters, got that.。
And then we have the setting.。
The main plot really is the lost is found.。
Classic, straightforward, and the message is。
the lost matters even if it's only one.。
And the voice that Jesus uses。
within this parable of the sheep is pretty firm.。
And diction is just a fancy word to say。
the choice of words that the writer。
or the author chooses to use, or the storyteller.。
So in this case, Jesus uses suppose one of you.。
Well, doesn't he?。
And joyfully finds a lost sheep.。
So he chooses these specific words。
to tell this specific story to this specific audience.。
So we got the structure, we got the components,。
but do we have good storytelling?。
Or else it's just maybe B plus, right?。
And our Jesus is not a B plus student.。
He's like A plus, plus extra credit,。
plus like principles, that's like。
everything valedictorian, right?。
So we have to have, and those of us who are Asian here。
and felt that academic pressure, you would understand.。
Good storytelling, as my editor has told me,。
and what she has learned from the entire industry。
and profession of copywriters, are these aspects,。
these areas.。
So you have to have a trusted teller.。
So whether it's the writer, the author,。
or the person speaking, do people care。
about what this person's saying?。
Is this person worthwhile, right?。
If Oprah Winfrey were to tell you a story,。
I'm sure it'd be packed.。
But I don't know, maybe not.。
If it were someone else, I don't know.。
Then is there enough drama?。
'Cause if there's not enough drama,。
we're not gonna be captivated, we won't be invested.。
We actually like the up and down of all the emotions.。
Is it relatable?。
Can I identify with it?。
Does it matter to me personally?。
And does it matter to anybody else?。
Is it simple?。
So the most powerful stories。
are the simplest stories, actually.。
And every word and every sentence progresses the narrative.。
So we don't waste time, we don't waste space.。
Agency.。
Agency is, does the reader or the listener。
have the power and freedom to make meaning on their own?。
So when I was trained to be a teacher。
for elementary education, in class, in grad school,。
I was told, "He who does the work does the learning."。
So I could teach children all they need to know.。
I can tell them exactly what they need to know.。
And they only need to memorize it and regurgitate it.。
But that type of meaning, that type of learning。
is not meaningful to them.。
It's much better when they connect the dots,。
when they can make meaning out of it,。
when they can have a personal connection。
to whatever we're learning.。
Okay, so now we're gonna see,。
does the parable fit good storytelling aspects。
as we see it in the copywriting world?。
All right, so, trusted teller.。
Well, yeah, it's Jesus.。
People are lining up to listen to this man, right?。
God in human form.。
Yes, we trust this teller.。
We care what he says.。
Check.。
Drama, lost and found, lots of emotion.。
Fear, joy, worry, celebration.。
That's a lot.。
Is it relatable?。
Now back then, herding sheep is pretty common knowledge,。
but just in case it's not, to these Pharisees,。
actually in the rest of the chapter in Luke,。
Jesus tells other lost and found stories,。
like the parable of the lost coin.。
Have you ever lost money?。
The parable of the prodigal son.。
Have you ever lost a child?。
So there is a lot of relatability here already.。
And is it simple?。
It's, I don't, if you count the lines,。
it's maybe four to five lines of the story,。
you can't get simpler than that.。
And every single piece moves the narrative.。
And is there agency?。
So here is kind of tricky, because in the Bible,。
we don't know if, what these Pharisees。
or these religious leaders said。
after listening to the story.。
The Bible doesn't say, necessarily.。
They didn't say if they stood up and clapped,。
or they stood up and left.。
It doesn't say.。
But that's the beauty of agency, isn't it, for us,。
because we have the ability to make meaning。
out of it for ourselves.。
So, looks like, check, check, check, we have it all.。
Now I'm gonna share with you another quote。
from a very wise person.。
"Sometimes we need to zoom out a bit。
"to see the bigger picture.。
"Perhaps this is a story within a larger story."。
You might be thinking, wow, what a wise thing to say.。
And you're wondering, who said it?。
Well, I said it.。
I say it to my kids all the time,。
'cause as you know, I'm a teacher, I'm an artist,。
I'm an author, so I'm pretty much like a teacher nerd mom。
to my children, and I wanted to show you。
how we at home read the Bible and read stories。
and look at it with inspection.。
So on the left here, you'll see a picture of our bookshelf.。
And it has just a collection of Bible stories.。
And these are like one book of one story,。
all designed for kids.。
And on the right, you'll see a stack。
of what I call the Bible Bibles.。
So it's not that the other ones aren't real,。
but these are the Bible Bibles we use。
for reference and quiet time.。
And the very top one is mine, and I tell the kids。
that that's what adults read.。
There's no pictures in it, there's lots of footnotes。
and lots of words and really tiny text.。
And then I say that, but then actually I read。
all of the other ones way more frequently。
than I read my own.。
And what we do, let's say for example,。
on the left side, I pull out a Noah's Ark story,。
and I have a few copies of them from different authors,。
different publishers, to see how the story changes。
based on who's telling it.。
The crux of the story is the same,。
but maybe one is only pictures.。
Another one, maybe they take out a little bit,。
but we don't know that until we go to the right。
and pull out a Bible Bible and look at。
what is the bigger story, what is the bigger picture?。
'Cause these are not standalone stories,。
is what I wanted to make sure my kids understood.。
Noah's Ark is not a standalone story.。
Easter is not a standalone story.。
They all fit into a larger context,。
a larger story inside the Bible itself.。
And it's the same for this parable of the lost sheep.。
So it's part of a larger story,。
but it really depends on how far you zoom out.。
So we have the parable of the lost sheep.。
If we zoom out maybe 25%,。
there's actually another story that's being told。
of Jesus teaching.。
It's Jesus's teaching story.。
And if we zoom out even more,。
all of Jesus's teaching story are in the New Testament.。
We zoom out even more, well, it's really。
the huge story of the Bible from creation。
all the way to redemption and us reuniting with God.。
But how far do we zoom out?。
For today, we're just gonna zoom out like 25%.。
We're just gonna zoom out to Jesus teaching。
just a little bit, right?。
So if we zoom out, we'll see。
that the lost sheep parable here。
doesn't essentially change, but how he tells it changes.。
So these are the components of the parable。
of the lost sheep, right?。
We already talked about this.。
And if you look outside,。
like before he starts telling the parable in Luke,。
there's actually more characters to this story.。
There are religious leaders, there are sinners,。
there's lots of people here.。
And as the setting and other components add on,。
you'll see this metaphor built up.。
It's not just about lost and found.。
It's about addressing the leader's biases.。
It's about saying not just one sheep matters.。
It's saying, hey, we don't need。
to have a person look a certain way, be a certain way。
to be able to enter the kingdom of heaven.。
All we need is belief and repentance.。
Now, even though within the parable of the lost sheep,。
Jesus' voice is firm, I wanna say that outside of that,。
that storyline above it,。
he's actually pretty clever and witty.。
So the Pharisees and the religious leaders。
are basically grumbling.。
They're like, oh my goodness, look at that Jesus.。
He's like talking to sinners and like eating with them.。
Basically, ew, gross, right?。
Like how horrible, dirty.。
Jesus doesn't really like respond to that directly,。
but you can see by the words he chooses.。
He just tells them a story.。
He's like, well, there's just gonna be more rejoicing。
for that one sinner who repents。
than all 99 righteous people who don't need to repent.。
Link, link, like who are these 99 righteous people?。
And I found that really genius。
because he didn't really have to say anything.。
And it's like, mic drop.。
And it reminds me of my grandma。
'cause she used to do that to me.。
So she used to tell me these stories。
in order to get me to do or not do something.。
A typical story is, it's all in Chinese,。
but in English it goes,。
once there was a child who swallowed a watermelon。
and swallowed all the watermelon seeds.。
And two days later, a watermelon grew out of his head,。
period.。
And this is what she would tell me often。
whenever I'm eating watermelon or anything that has seeds.。
But she would change this story ever so slightly.。
So she'll change it like this.。
There once was a little child。
who swallowed so many watermelon seeds。
that a watermelon grew inside of her.。
So there's no more room in her stomach for other food.。
Oh, and by the way, I made noodles.。
This is a response, an indirect response to my question of,。
can I have more watermelon?。
So I just find Jesus here, not exactly like my grandma,。
but just so clever in how he answers。
where I'm sitting there as a child thinking,。
oh no, I should not have the watermelon anymore。
'cause I want the noodles.。
So I wanna say that Jesus takes these stories。
and kinda changes them,。
but maybe not exactly like my grandmother。
who's just getting me to not eat more watermelon.。
And these stories are true。
'cause I've swallowed some seeds。
and when the watermelon doesn't grow,。
I realize the story's fake.。
But I want you to see how Jesus tells the same parable,。
but in a different way,。
and if you can spot the difference.。
So we're gonna go to Matthew chapter 18,。
verses one through six in IV.。
I am going to read them and you can read along with me.。
So at the time, the disciples came to Jesus and asked,。
who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?。
He called a little child to him。
and placed the child among them.。
And he said, truly I tell you,。
unless you change and become like little children,。
you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.。
Therefore, whoever takes a lowly position of this child。
is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.。
And whoever welcomes one such child in my name welcomes me.。
If anyone causes one of these little ones,。
those who believe in me to stumble,。
it will be better for them to have a large millstone。
hung around their neck。
and be drowned in the depths of the sea.。
I don't know if Jesus actually said it like that,。
but that's how I hear it.。
Skipped a few verses, Matthew 18, 10 to 13.。
See that you do not despise one of these little ones,。
for I tell you, their angels in heaven。
always see the face of my Father in heaven.。
What do you think?。
If a man owns a hundred sheep and one of them wanders away,。
will he not leave the 99 on the hills。
and go to look for that one that wandered off?。
And if he finds it, truly I tell you,。
he's happier about the one sheep。
than about the 99 that did not wander off.。
In the same way, your Father in heaven。
is not willing that any of these little ones should perish.。
So I'm getting the message here.。
And I've never even tended sheep.。
I don't even enjoy touching them.。
But I'll tell you as a parent,。
losing a child is one of the worst possible nightmares.。
And when my family were in seminary,。
we lived in graduate housing,。
I thought I lost my eldest son, Tyson.。
He was only not yet even three years old。
and we're out in the back, up on a hill playing.。
I turned around, picked up my younger son, Ethan,。
who was barely one at the time.。
And in a split second, Tyson was gone.。
I could not see him anywhere.。
And this is in Deerfield.。
It's not like there's like crowds and like buildings.。
This is like Deerfield, suburban Chicago.。
But he's nowhere to be seen。
and it felt like time stood still forever.。
And I could hear my heart beating so fast。
and it was like coming out of my body.。
So I had to decide, do I leave Ethan to go find Tyson?。
Which is hard to do 'cause he's barely one.。
So I left him with other children。
and told the children to watch him like a hawk。
while I look for Tyson.。
And I'm screaming and screaming.。
And I'm so loud that all the other seminary students。
drop their books, come out of their dormitories,。
into the field going, what's going on?。
I lost Tyson.。
And then everyone's looking for Tyson.。
We're at the soccer field, the football field,。
the playground, inside the slides, in the tunnels,。
in the forest, everywhere, in the crosswalk,。
everywhere, no sign of him.。
I am starting to panic.。
The worst like comes to mind.。
Oh my goodness, he was abducted.。
I don't know by what, a coyote?。
I'm not sure.。
But in my head, it was like worst possible thing.。
I go around the apartment building and I see him there.。
He's just sitting on the step waiting for me.。
I run to him and I grab him。
and I'm rejoicing inside to tears.。
I pick him up and I just run around everywhere.。
I found him, I found him, I found him.。
And everyone is celebrating with me.。
So if you ask me, was I glad and happy。
that Ethan didn't wander off?。
Of course.。
But was I happier that I found Tyson?。
Most definitely, right?。
So even though I've never heard a sheep,。
a tended sheep or even one touch them,。
this story I get, I can relate to it.。
I identify.。
Because you see, the parable of the lost sheep,。
as told in Luke, did not do that to me.。
I didn't think of that.。
Because there was not that whole section。
about Jesus talking about how important children are.。
Right?。
It didn't hit me in the same way.。
So if we look at this,。
the components within the components of Mark,。
you'll see that he actually uses a different voice。
because his disciples are basically bickering.。
Who's better?。
And I experience that all the time with my children.。
Who's better?。
I'm better, I'm better.。
No, I'm better.。
No, you're not.。
Yes, I am.。
The point is, there's a bigger plot.。
He's settling the rivalry between them with this parable.。
And he's saying, all you need to do is be like children.。
But I wanna also highlight,。
he's pretty casual when he tells the parable,。
but he's pretty disciplinary。
when he tells them about children.。
And here's like the tone,。
unless you change, you're not gonna get this.。
And it's about my father and your father.。
In Luke, Jesus didn't do that.。
Right?。
He didn't say your father, my father.。
He used heavens.。
There was no personal relationship there.。
And also in Luke, he says,。
suppose one of you owned a hundred sheep.。
In this one, he said, suppose a man.。
Well, why?。
Why are there these differences?。
Because it's a different audience.。
The disciples are not wealthy people.。
They would never own a hundred sheep, right?。
But why does that matter?。
It matters a lot because within that context,。
it tells a storyteller how to modify the story。
to make it impactful for whoever's listening.。
Right?。
And then later he was also saying,。
you just have to be, you just have to be like children.。
So in that context,。
I don't think that Jesus is particularly condemning,。
but really teaching.。
So if we take a look at those two zoomed out storylines,。
side by side, let's compare them.。
And I wanna focus a lot on the audience.。
So we've talked about a bunch of these already before,。
but I wanna focus on the audience.。
In Luke, there's these Pharisees。
and these religious leaders, right?。
And as much as he's being clever and witty,。
kind of tongue in cheek,。
he's basically trying to show them。
that the gates of heaven are welcome。
to people they don't expect.。
And the leaders wanna gatekeep it,。
but Jesus is saying, no, as long as there's repentance,。
there's acceptance.。
And for some of us here,。
maybe we're grumbling about someone or something.。
I know I sure am a lot of times。
when I think those people can't have access。
to the kingdom of heaven.。
Those people, the conniving people,。
the self-righteous people, the rude people,。
the exclusive people.。
And then I'm thinking, oh, wait a minute.。
Am I being exclusive here?。
So there's a compelling moment。
and you're convicted, right?。
Now in Mark, even though Jesus is directly talking。
to the disciples and teaching them, disciplining them,。
he told them to be like children,。
even though they were acting like kids, ironically.。
But I don't think he was condemning his disciples either,。
but really helping them to solve their problem。
and their debate.。
And it's subtle, but actually not so subtle.。
If they're just like children,。
their father's not gonna let any of them perish.。
They're just chill out.。
And for some of us,。
maybe we think someone else is not deserving。
or we're competing with those around us.。
Because after all, that's what society tells us to do.。
But I wanna mark that actually,。
that in Mark, Jesus is also talking to children。
'cause he invites a child in their midst.。
So the children might not be the active, direct listeners,。
but they're listening.。
As you know, if you ever have kids,。
you can say one thing and they hear it。
and they'll repeat it.。
But you'll say 10,000 other things。
that you want them to say and they won't.。
Unless that's just my kids.。
And I wonder when these children are listening。
to what Jesus is saying to the disciples,。
if they feel comforted.。
Because as children, they have no power.。
They have no choice.。
But what Jesus is saying is,。
they're so important that all of you need to be like them.。
And maybe some of us,。
we don't relate to judging Pharisees.。
We don't relate to maybe disciples who are quarreling.。
Do we relate to children?。
Do we feel helpless?。
Do we feel confused?。
Do we feel lost?。
Do we feel inexperienced?。
But yet, our God tells us。
that children are the most beautiful thing.。
And what we see here is that bottom row, agency.。
We get to have that agency to look at these stories。
in a zoomed out way.。
So if we're to be like Jesus here on earth,。
healing the sick, finding the lost,。
how does this story look to us today?。
So who is the audience today reading this story。
and the story outside the story?。
The audience, meaning you and I here right now.。
So ask yourselves, what context are you currently in?。
Are you in a place of a lot of turmoil, decision, chaos?。
Are you in a state of jealousy or unforgiveness?。
How does that affect how you hear the story?。
We're not just one of these sets of audiences forever.。
We can be all of them at different times in our lives.。
So maybe there is a lost sheep in your life.。
Maybe there's a need to reconcile that.。
Or maybe you think you deserve more than that person.。
Or could that lost sheep be actually you?。
Are you feeling lonely and scared or helpless?。
But remind yourself of what the parable says,。
regardless of audience and context,。
that each one matters.。
Every single one, you, me, every single one of us matter.。
So in summary, the goal was to help you know。
the power of storytelling, which I hope I made that point,。
and that you realize that Jesus is the goat.。
If not anything else, Jesus is the goat.。
But I also want you to know that this is one story.。
This is the lost sheep, one story,。
that is inside like a zoomed out story, right?。
That is inside an even bigger story.。
So I am really excited and looking forward。
to continuing diving into these stories with you。
as we move along.。
Next week, I'll be here.。
We'll talk about another story.。
And so far, that's the end for me today.。
But if you have any stories you wanna share with me,。
you wanna hear more of my stories,。
feel free to find me and contact me.。
But that's all I have for you today.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
