Hey, thanks Kelly.。
Let me get my PowerPoint ready, alright.。
Why don't we pray together?。
Father, we want to pray to you because you are the King, you are the Lord.。
Even though sometimes we cannot see your hands, we know that you are still in control.。
You are still the Lord of history, Lord of our lives.。
That's why we come before you to worship you.。
That's why no matter if it is sunshine or it is raining, we come to acknowledge your。
Lordship.。
And we pray that you will help us to put our trust in you, to believe in you.。
I pray for each and every one of us.。
Perhaps we are facing some life challenges or crisis.。
I pray that you will grant us the grace to see your authority, your power.。
You are bigger than all the problems and challenges that we have.。
So pray that we will put our faith in you, wholeheartedly trust you with our full heart,。
no reserve, because you are the Lord, you are God.。
And pray that you will speak to us, pray that you will awaken our soul, our spirit, we will。
draw closer to you in your presence, in Christ and pray.。
Well we are talking about Apostles Creed and this is a very, very ancient Creed, uh, lasts。
for over 1,800 years.。
I mean, can you think of any movement in human history that will last so long, right?。
That will last so long, that would last for all the rise and fall of empires on the earth.。
But Christianity, the Jesus movement, lasts for so long, right?。
And this Apostles Creed we're going to go through together, uh, we started last week,。
uh, lasts for almost 2,000 years, right?。
The Roman Empire, who used to persecute the early churches, they fell in the 5th century.。
But the churches are continuing their movement and they still exist until today.。
And that's why this is so valuable as we look at, uh, the Apostles Creed, uh, going back。
to almost 2,000 years.。
And we said that, uh, the Apostles Creed believes in statements, uh, it begins with statements。
with "I believe this" and "I believe that."。
And we said that "I believe" does not mean intellectually agreeing upon some proposition.。
In the Bible, "I believe" means "I am believing into God."。
That is to say, I commit myself to God.。
I'm not just putting checks on check boxes and say, "Okay, I believe in this and I believe。
in that."。
It's not an intellectual proposition only.。
It is "I am committing myself to the relationship with God."。
And last week, well, we said, um, "I believe in, uh, God, the Father Almighty, Creator。
of heaven and earth."。
And we clarify one thing in the Bible, faith is not making something true.。
Faith is affirming something that is already true.。
Okay, can you repeat after me?。
Faith is not making something true.。
Faith is affirming something that is already true.。
I believe.。
I affirm something that is already true.。
So that's why you don't find any passages in the Bible trying to prove to you the existence。
of God.。
The Bible don't do that.。
Instead, in the Bible, you find a God who exists.。
You never find the Bible, never find the Bible or in Christian faith that "I believe in the。
existence of God."。
No, we don't affirm that.。
Instead, we affirm, "I believe the God who exists."。
Can you repeat after me?。
We don't affirm the existence of God.。
You say, "What?。
That's a church."。
Right?。
No, we don't.。
We don't affirm the existence of God.。
We believe in the God who exists.。
That's a totally different thing.。
The first statement, "I believe in the existence of God," is just an intellectual thing.。
But if I believe or I'm believing into the God who exists, who relates to you, who loves。
you, who redeems you, that's a totally different ballgame, right?。
So that is what faith is all about.。
And today, I would like to unpack the first statement here and using Psalm 119.。
Sorry, Psalm 19.。
Psalm 19.。
Let me read the first six verses.。
The heavens declare the glory of God.。
The skies, the heavens, proclaim the work of His hands.。
Day after day, they pour forth speech.。
Night after night, they display knowledge.。
There's no speech or language where their voice is not heard.。
Their voice goes out into all the earth, worse to the ends of the earth.。
In the heavens, He has pitched a tent for the sun.。
God has done that.。
God has pitched a tent for the sun, which is like a bridegroom coming forth from his。
pavilion, like a champion rejoicing to run his course.。
It rises, talking about the sun, at one end of heavens and make a circuit to the other.。
Nothing is hidden from the heat of the sun.。
Now Psalm 19.。
This is only the first third of it.。
Psalm 19 is a creative rendition of Genesis 1, the seven days of creation.。
And here the Psalm says, the creation of God, the entire cosmos, the entire universe is。
like a choir, like a symphony, like an orchestra.。
Have you ever been to a symphony theater?。
Have you ever done that?。
It's like a symphony, singing day after day and night after night.。
And this is some spiritual music playing, mysterious music playing, and you have to。
listen to it with years of faith.。
This is not normal speech, not normal verbal language.。
But there it is.。
The creation is proclaiming something.。
It's declaring something.。
It's singing about God who exists.。
God who is behind everything.。
Some years ago, I was listening to a debate.。
It happened in Great Britain, in UK.。
So it was some years ago.。
I was listening to a debate online between a Jewish Rabbi called Jonathan Sarick.。
And then he was debating with the very famous, very well-known atheist, Richard Dawkins.。
Both of them are UK people, so they did kind of a radio debate, online debate.。
So I was listening to this, and it was a really, really heated debate.。
And of course, the Jewish Rabbi, Jonathan Sarick, he was very famous.。
He passed away not too long ago.。
He was the chief Rabbi of Judaism in Great Britain.。
And he was debating Dawkins.。
And Dawkins was also a British scientist, and he is known for his atheist standpoint,。
right?。
That there's no God and everything is just matters, right?。
And everything is just coming together randomly, and that's why we have life.。
And then, Sax was debating with him, and it was kind of a very heated, engaging conversation.。
I remember one thing Jonathan said with Dawkins.。
The Jewish Rabbi said, said to Richard, "Richard, religion is music, and you are tone deaf."。
And Dawkins said, "Yes, it is true.。
I am tone deaf, but there's no music."。
I tried to sink in what the Rabbi is trying to say.。
Faith is music, but if you're tone deaf, you cannot hear the music.。
That's what Psalm 19 is trying to say.。
The heaven is proclaiming, proclaiming the God who exists, the God who loves you, the。
God who made all of this, who is behind everything.。
Faith is the ability to hear the music beneath the noise.。
There are a lot of noises we hear today from our culture, from our social media.。
It's a great thing we have great technology, but also create a lot of noises in our life,。
right?。
In order to hear God, you need to understand faith is the ability to hear, to penetrate,。
to hear the music beneath all this noises.。
The Psalm says there is spiritual music of creation.。
The sun rises in the east every morning and travels to the, to the west.。
Okay, this is a normal, typical, ordinary language.。
The Psalm is not teaching cosmology.。
The Psalm is teaching us theology, talking about God.。
In 1905, looking at the sun traveling from the east to the west, it's like a bridegroom。
coming forth from his tent or pavilion, like a champion rejoicing, running his course.。
The pavilion behind it, it was the Hebrew word, hopa.。
All right, can you repeat after me?。
Hopa.。
Now, what is that?。
I always find it funny the Chinese would translate like that, all right?。
If you know Chinese, you know what I'm saying.。
I don't know why, yeah.。
But behind it, it was the Hebrew word, hopa.。
And what is it?。
Now, if you Google that, if you know a little bit about Jewish wedding custom, even today,。
the Jewish couple would come under a tent with four corners, with the rabbi, with the。
officiant of the wedding.。
So in the entire wedding ceremony, okay, the Jewish couple will come under that tent with。
the rabbi, with the officiant, and they will go through the entire ceremony under the tent.。
The tent is called hopa.。
All right, so they will officiate the wedding, the Jewish wedding, under that hopa.。
And then when the ceremony concludes, the bridegroom with the bride will go out of the。
hopa.。
And in Jewish tradition, it means a new creation, a new family is being created, right?。
A new relationship, new marriage has been launched.。
So when they come out of the chamber or the pavilion, the hopa is a new creation.。
So with that picture in mind, Psalm 19 is trying to say, every single morning when you。
wake up today, when you wake up this morning, the sun rises and will follow this course。
across the sky to the west.。
And every day is a new creation of God.。
Every day the sun comes out of the east.。
It's like the bridegroom coming out of the hopa.。
It is a new song for God.。
It is a new song for his love, for his power.。
So every day is a new day.。
And then Psalm 19, not only use that kind of imagery, you know, in the ancient days,。
in the ancient Jewish society, or even today if we go to Israel, going to some traditional。
Palestinian villages, they will have weddings.。
And like in the ancient days, all weddings happening in the village is a public event.。
It's an open event.。
Everybody in the village is invited.。
Now it's totally different from today, right?。
Today if you are getting married or your friends are getting married, usually the people are。
being invited are very selective, right?。
Right?。
You have your list of guests.。
You're trying to invite, you know, not as many as possible, right?。
It's always a private, selective event.。
But in the ancient days, wedding is always a public event.。
Everybody knows who is getting married next week.。
Everyone is invited to the banquet.。
And everyone is a witness.。
Because nobody would be so stupid and say, "Who's getting married today?"。
It's a totally public event, right?。
Psalm 19 is saying, "The music the creation is playing is a public event."。
There's no way you can miss it.。
There's no way you cannot listen to the music.。
If you put on hearing ears of faith, then you will pick up the spiritual music.。
There's a guy in United States, very famous, very important person, Francis Collins.。
He is the head of the NIH, National Institutes of Health, for some years.。
And then he was also the head of the genetic research in the United States, the human general。
research.。
In 2020, when the pandemic just started, in 2020, Francis Collins was awarded with the。
Templeton Prize.。
Now the Templeton Prize was an award given to intellectuals who have made significant。
contributions to science and faith.。
In that sense, these intellectuals who have received the prize every single year, in 2020,。
it was awarded to Collins.。
He has made a lot of contribution to integrate science and faith, technology and faith.。
And by the way, Jonathan Sachs, the UK Jewish Rabbi, he received the same prize in 2016.。
So when Collins received that prize, he talked about how he came to faith.。
Some years ago, he was a medical doctor and he visited one of his patients who was an。
old Christian lady on sickbed.。
The lady was suffering enormously because of her conditions and she was dying.。
And one day when Collins, as a medical doctor, he went into the room to talk to this lady.。
This old lady asked Dr. Collins.。
He asked him, "Doctor, I know I'm dying.。
I'm going somewhere else.。
I know where I'm going.。
I know what I believe.。
But doctor, what do you believe in?"。
And it just dawned on him, as a medical doctor, this cosmic question confronted him and he。
didn't know how to answer.。
And after that conversation, he took some time to really dig into what this faith is。
all about and why this lady who's dying should have no hope at all, right?。
Should have no hope at all.。
But she is full of hope, right?。
And he, as a medical doctor, he couldn't do anything about it.。
And he see this lady with hope beyond death.。
And he asked himself, "What do I believe in?。
What is my belief?。
How do I answer that cosmic question, right?。
The life and death question.。
What do you believe in?"。
I will ask you, "What do you believe in?"。
Right?。
You've been to church.。
You probably grew up in a Christian family.。
Good Christian family or bad Christian family.。
It really doesn't matter.。
You've probably been to church, good church or a bad church.。
It really doesn't matter.。
What do you believe in?。
And then Dr. Collins spent some, just a little bit, maybe a few years, and then he read C.S.。
Lewis' Mere Christianity and find the faith.。
So he came to Christ.。
He came to believe in Jesus.。
And he's still very vocal about what he believes.。
He's an evangelical.。
He's a believer.。
Very good guy.。
Very good guy.。
In one of his books, The Language of God, you see the DNA there, double helix.。
He wrote this book.。
And there's one paragraph I want to share with you.。
He said, "While the long history of religious oppression and hypocrisy is profoundly sobering,。
the earnest seeker of truth, if you're earnest seeker of truth, must look beyond the behavior。
of flawed humans in order to find the truth.。
Would you condemn an oak tree because its timber had been used to build battle ramps,。
weapons to kill other people?。
Would you condemn the tree?。
Would you blame the air for allowing lies to be transmitted through it?。
Would you judge Mozart's Magic Flute on the basis of poorly rehearsed performance by fifth。
graders?"。
Have you ever been one of those?。
The fifth graders?。
"If you had never seen a real sunset over the Pacific, would you allow a tourist brochure。
as a substitute?。
Would you evaluate the power of romantic love solely in light of an abusive marriage next。
door?"。
No.。
No, you don't.。
A real evaluation of truth of faith depends upon looking at clean, pure water, not at。
the rusty containers.。
What do you believe in?。
Now I picked this paragraph because I really echo with some of the things that he said.。
It's indeed really sad to see churches, some human institutes, corrupt by power, corrupt。
by sin.。
They rise and they fall.。
Sometimes when you hear news like that, you're just shaking your head, right?。
SMH, shaking your head.。
You just cannot live with that.。
You just cannot live with that, right?。
How could people do that, right?。
How could people do that?。
But it really strikes me.。
He said about oppression, about hypocrisy, but he also invite us, if you're really earnest。
seekers of truth, you need to look beyond that, right?。
Sometimes we put our faith in human institutions.。
Sometimes we put our faith in flawed humans, including your pastor, including your leader,。
including anyone that you look up to.。
These people are as broken as we are.。
Leaders and pastors, including myself, we all needed grace.。
We all needed the love of God.。
Every one of us.。
Don't you want to put your faith in flawed humans?。
You put your faith, you put your trust in God and God alone.。
Psalm 19.。
We read the first six verses.。
The first third is talking about the word of creation, the speech of creation, general。
revelation.。
Everyone knows it.。
It's universal.。
And then seven to ten, it changed to words from the creator, words of creators, the special。
revelation, especially for you.。
The words in the Bible, the words in scripture, those are the words from the Lord, the creator.。
Then the last third is our response.。
We as creature, how do we respond to the word of God?。
Let's read through it and we're going to go through the Apostles' Creed together and then。
we're going to sing a response song.。
Okay?。
So Psalm 19, seven to ten.。
The second half, second third.。
The Lord of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul.。
The statue of the Lord are trustworthy, making wise the simple.。
The precept of the Lord are right, giving joy to your heart.。
The commands of the Lord are radiant, giving light to the eyes.。
The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring forever.。
The ordinances of the Lord are sure and altogether righteous.。
They are more precious than gold, more precious than pure gold.。
They're sweeter than honey, than honey from the comb.。
The words from the Lord.。
And then our response.。
By your word, by them, is your servant wanted.。
And keeping them there is great reward.。
Who can discern his own errors, forgive my hidden faults.。
Keep your servant also from willful sins.。
May they not rule over me.。
Then will I be blameless, innocent of great transgression.。
What a humble prayer.。
And he answered prayer with verse fourteen.。
May the words of my mouth, the meditation of my heart, be pleasing in your sight, O。
Lord.。
My rock and my redeemer.。
Well, we're going to recite the Apostles' Creed together.。
Let's do that.。
Why don't we stand and do that, alright?。
If you will believe, we recite it together as if we will believe I'm believing into this.。
Let's recite the Creed together.。
I believe in God, the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth.。
I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord.。
He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit and born of the Virgin Mary.。
He suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried.。
He descended to the dead.。
On the third day, he rose again.。
He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father.。
He will come again to judge the living and the dead.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the holy universal church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness。
of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting.。
Amen.。
Rachel is going to sing, and we're going to join her together.。
I believe in God, our Father.。
I believe in Christ, the Son.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit.。
God, the truth, three in one.。
I believe in the resurrection.。
Heaven will rise again.。
For I believe in the name of Jesus.。
Let's do that together, I believe, from the beginning.。
I believe in God, our Father.。
I believe in Christ, the Son.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit.。
Our God is three in one.。
I believe in the resurrection, that we will rise again.。
I believe in the name of Jesus.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we praise you, we believe in you.。
We are believing into you and putting our faith, our whole trust in you.。
For you alone is trustworthy, not any man on this earth.。
You are the God that we can depend upon.。
You are the God we can rely.。
For you are the almighty, you are the creator.。
Let us praise you, let us hear the spiritual music of the universe.。
Proclaiming your glory, proclaiming your awesomeness, your power.。
Thank you for loving us.。
And for the rest of the week, we are sent by your Holy Spirit to live for you.。
And put our faith in you. And do your will to please you and worship you alone.。
In Christ's name we pray, Amen.。
