Mr. Jinwook for today's sermon.。
(audience applauding)。
- Good morning, brothers and sisters.。
Did you hear me?。
Okay.。
How have you been doing?。
It's been very cold these days,。
and Omicron is surging,。
and things are still going on,。
and we don't feel much peace sometimes.。
But I want you to receive God's peace。
through this worship.。
God wants to give you life, peace, joy, and love.。
All these things we can only find in our Lord.。
Today I'm gonna deliver God's message。
from 1 John, chapter four, verse 72 to 12.。
(keyboard clicking)。
Okay, so if you have your Bible, open your Bible.。
1 John, chapter four, verse 72 to 12.。
1 John, chapter four, verse 72 to 12,。
because it's a short passage, let's read together.。
Dear friends, let us love one another,。
for love comes from God.。
Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God.。
Whoever does not love does not know God,。
because God is love.。
This is how God showed his love among us.。
He sent his one and only Son into the world。
that we might live through him.。
This is love, not that we loved God,。
but that he loved us and sent his Son。
as the atoning sacrifice for our sins.。
Dear friends, since God so loved us,。
we also ought to love one another.。
No one has ever seen God, but if you love one another,。
God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us.。
This is the word of God.。
Amen, amen.。
So let's pray.。
(pages rustling)。
Father, here we are in front of you,。
and I'm gonna deliver your word to your people.。
But I know that my lips are corrupt,。
and my heart is not truly loving.。
So when I deliver this message,。
Father, I'm convicted in my heart already.。
Holy Spirit, come upon us.。
Let us listen to your voice, Lord.。
Convict our hearts, and bring the changes in our lives。
that we may glorify you, that we may live in you.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
So last year, at the end of last year,。
when I was asked to deliver three times of Sunday messages,。
one per month, this year from January to March,。
I had to think about what I do really wanna share with you,。
brothers and sisters.。
Just as many of you know, after 13 years of living。
as a missionary to America, my family and I。
are going back to my country next month.。
And thankfully, some of you guys came to Christ。
through my ministry.。
It was not my power, but it was God's grace.。
Therefore, this is the last moment,。
so as my last word to you, brothers and sisters,。
I intentionally chose the three topics last December.。
So prayer, I delivered the message about prayer in January.。
Today, love, and living as a disciple next month.。
So those are the three topics I really care。
that you wanna really understand me before I go.。
Yeah, your pastor, Mark, will continuously。
remind you the same thing,。
but these are the three topics in my heart.。
Prayer life, loving life, and living your life。
as a disciple.。
So though I well know that I am weak in love。
and not qualified to preach about love,。
I am also convinced that love is so essential。
for a Christian's life.。
And I'm gonna deliver this message about love。
Jesus showed us.。
It's not my love, it's not my experience,。
but it's Jesus' love, and the love Jesus wants us。
to live out in our lives.。
So let me ask you this question, brothers and sisters.。
What is love for you?。
What is love?。
Have you ever seen a couple falling in love。
with each other?。
Some days ago, Jim Fan and Paul came to our house,。
and they were grabbing their hands。
and just hugging all the time, trying to touch each other.。
So when their love is just starting,。
they are literally on flame, flame of fantasy,。
like fantasy love.。
They are so happy with only their dating partner's presence.。
They feel like they have everything,。
and life is so good and perfect.。
But the problem is this.。
How long does the flame of love last?。
It depends on the couples,。
or on different, some research measures.。
However, we just know that just a few months later,。
or a couple of years later,。
or a few years later at most,。
the strong sense of love to win those。
decreases little by little.。
And many couples, many husbands and wives,。
feel so dull about their relations.。
Many feel and think that。
they do not love each other anymore.。
And I watched a Korean live show.。
The speaker asked the people in the studio hall,。
the studio hall was packed with people,。
and the speaker asked this question.。
If you feel your couple, as a husband and wife,。
love each other, please raise your hand.。
And I exactly remember eight people。
raised their hands among couple of hundreds.。
Okay, only eight people.。
So surely, husband and wife relationship。
should be the most meaningful and beautiful in our lives.。
But truly loving relationship。
between husband and wife is quite rare.。
It's quite rare.。
What is the problem?。
The problem is this.。
Even though we desire love so badly,。
we cannot hold even the greatest love in our lives.。
Why do the people get married?。
Your parents, they're hating each other,。
but actually they love each other.。
We cannot hold even the greatest love in our lives.。
What does that mean?。
It means that we receive, oh no, no, no, I'm sorry.。
So, we easily lose and destroy love.。
So today I'm gonna help you understand。
three important lessons about love。
through today's passage.。
Okay, three lessons.。
Pastor's love number three, right?。
The first lesson about love is that。
love is the greatest gift in our lives.。
Everybody repeat after me.。
Love is the greatest gift in our lives.。
Even though love is the greatest among all gifts,。
it's a gift.。
Do you get it?。
Love is the greatest among all gifts,。
but it's still a gift.。
What does that mean?。
It means that we receive and enjoy love for a brief time.。
We didn't create love.。
We couldn't think out of love.。
We received everything about love.。
So, verse seven in today's passage says like this.。
Verse seven.。
I'm sorry.。
I'm gonna use this very fancy one.。
Okay, let's read together.。
Dear friends, let us love one another,。
for love comes from God.。
One more time.。
Dear friends, let us love one another,。
for love comes from God.。
What does, where does love come from?。
According to this verse, from God.。
And interestingly, my Korean Bible reads like this.。
Love, yeah, Korean translation reads like this.。
Love belongs to God.。
Whether love comes from God or love belongs to God,。
both means that God is the creator of love.。
God is the creator of love,。
and the owner of love, and the giver of love.。
Again, God is the creator of love,。
owner of love, and the giver of love.。
We receive love as a gift, roughly in two ways, from God.。
We receive love from God in two ways.。
Number one, we receive love as a gift,。
because God made us as loving beings.。
God made us as loving beings.。
He could have made us as another being,。
like unable to love.。
Let's take an example of ostriches.。
The Book of Job, the letters is quite small,。
but Book of Job, chapter 39, verse 14 to 16,。
describes this, how a mommy ostrich。
does never have any sense of love toward her babies.。
Have you heard about that?。
It goes like this.。
She, a mommy ostrich, lays her eggs on the ground。
and lets them worm in the sand.。
Unmindful that a foot may crush them,。
that some wild animal may trample them.。
She treats her youngs harshly,。
as if they were not hers.。
She cares not that her labor was in vain.。
Did you hear me?。
Why is a mommy ostrich like this?。
And the following verse, verse 17, gives the answer.。
Verse 17, for God did not endow her with wisdom。
or give her a good sense, a share of good sense.。
In other words, ostriches, mommy ostriches,。
cannot have truly caring love toward their youngs。
because God intentionally did not give the ability to love.。
But in the opposite, why do we humans。
care so much about love?。
Do you care about love?。
Actually, if we express it or not with our mouth,。
we actually all the time, 24/7, we care for love.。
We are flourishing because of love.。
We are dying out lacking love.。
Love is the essence.。
Even though we have been hurt because of love,。
even though we have a lot of conflicts and troubles,。
because of love, we know that we cannot live without love.。
Why is love so essential for human existence?。
Because God made us in that way.。
God made us as loving beings.。
So the Bible so many times emphasizes that。
God made us in his image, in his image.。
Genesis chapter 1, 27 says,。
"So God created man in his own image.。
"In the image of God, he created him.。
"Male and female, he created them."。
So humans are in God's image.。
You know that, right?。
And then, what is God's image?。
What is God's image?。
And verse eight in today's passage says,。
God is what?。
God is love.。
God is love and we were created in God's image.。
Do you understand?。
So our essence, being a human, means love.。
So since made in God's image,。
we were created as loving beings.。
This is why love is a gift from God.。
God made us able to love.。
Like what?。
Love between family members,。
love between men and women,。
love between brothers and sisters.。
All these forms of true love.。
Now the world are calling so many different ideas love,。
but they are not love.。
But God gave us the right forms of love。
and all these right forms of love came from God。
and we are able to enjoy these loves。
because God gave us that ability.。
This is why love is gift from God.。
Second, we receive love as a gift。
because God redeemed our inability to love.。
Why is it a gift, love is a gift?。
Because God redeemed our inability to love.。
Though God made us as loving beings。
after Adam and Eve's fall, as you know,。
we lost the true loving ability.。
Are you able to love without fear?。
We have a lot of fears.。
We cannot love.。
We are lonely, but we cannot love.。
Our love became so self-centered.。
We think we love,。
but actually we love only for ourselves.。
This is the most serious problem in our life.。
We think we love,。
but actually we love only ourselves.。
Our self-centered love makes our life really painful。
and brings conflict so many times.。
Why is your life so painful?。
Why is your life with all kinds of conflicts?。
Because we are self-centered.。
In 2 Samuel chapter 13,。
there is a very horrible story in King David's family.。
As you know, King David had many wives,。
and Amnon, his name was Amnon,。
Amnon was the oldest among all sons.。
Amnon had a half-sister named Tamar.。
Half-sister meaning that Amnon, this guy, and Tamar,。
they had the same father, King David,。
but their mothers were different.。
But Amnon, this guy, began to love his half-sister, Tamar.。
To make a long story short,。
Amnon asked his father, King David, to send Tamar,。
that she might take care of him。
when he was pretending to be ill.。
He was pretending to be ill.。
And then what happened?。
Amnon raped his sister。
and had a sexual relationship by force.。
When he was trying to do this,。
Tamar was resisting him, saying,。
"Please don't do this dishonorable thing,。
but ask father to give me to you."。
Okay, but however, Amnon did not listen to her。
and defiled her.。
Then after raping her, Amnon's mind abruptly changed.。
He thought he was loving her.。
He thought, "I love you so much, this much."。
But right after that, doing the wrong thing,。
his mind changed.。
He thought,。
after he was, when he was raping her,。
Tamar, with the right sense, she resisted him.。
And then this made him angry.。
You know what?。
This made him angry.。
So he drove her out from his house after the wrongdoing.。
And then 2 Samuel, chapter 13, verse 15,。
exposes Amnon's insanely selfish love.。
Insanely selfish love.。
Then Amnon hated her with intense hatred.。
In fact, he hated her more than he had loved her.。
Amnon said to her, "Get up and get out."。
Is that love?。
Insanely selfish love.。
Brothers and sisters, love is so essential。
and central in our lives.。
We know that we cannot live without love.。
But the problem is that we don't know how to love,。
how to truly love.。
Many of us are going through bitter。
and painful stage of life。
because we were hurt by others whom we loved,。
or we hurt others in the name of love.。
So we are now quite tired of loving others。
and scared to love anymore.。
We are tired.。
This is why Jesus had to come.。
When Jesus died on the cross。
and shed all this blood for us,。
he renewed our heart.。
He renewed our senses.。
He cleansed our evil and dirty conscience.。
We had a lot of evil and dirty things in our hearts,。
but Jesus cleansed it and gave us a new heart。
that we may be able to love each other again.。
Because of Jesus, we can say like this,。
let's love again.。
I am dirty.。
You are hurt.。
But we can have the courage to love each other again,。
forgiving each other again, trusting each other again.。
Jesus made it possible.。
When I was in my 20s and 30s,。
as I shared many times before,。
if you forget this, please remember this only about me.。
Who was I, your pastor?。
In my 20s and 30s, sometimes I was extremely lonely.。
I was extremely lonely.。
I needed people, but I was afraid of making relationships.。
And whenever I tried to approach people,。
I felt fear and burden.。
And I even didn't have any hope。
toward the love between man and woman.。
Because my heart was so defiled and dirty,。
I didn't have any hope toward the marriage。
between man and woman.。
But you know, yeah, I had a lot of fear,。
guilt, and problems, pride, many problems.。
But however, when Jesus entered my life,。
he literally renewed everything in me.。
Jesus removed my sins.。
Jesus removed my unclean thoughts and behaviors。
and my fears.。
Jesus removed my fears.。
I am not completely free from the fears,。
but removed most of the fears in my life.。
When I continuously gave my life to him。
in obedience to him, Jesus filled my heart,。
filled my life with many meaningful relationships.。
He enabled me to love others,。
even though it is not perfect.。
And Jesus gave me my wife and my children.。
Whenever I look at my children and my wife,。
and whenever I find my heart is loving them。
without shame, without guilt, without fear,。
I know that it is from Jesus.。
It is not my love.。
I know that all the people I have and I love,。
they came from Jesus,。
especially through his forgiveness。
and the power of the Holy Spirit,。
and the power of the Holy Spirit.。
I want you to come to the worship.。
I want you to know Jesus,。
because when you receive the Holy Spirit,。
there is the power,。
there is the only one thing that will hold you up,。
that will hold your love up。
with nothing else, with nothing else.。
Now I fully know that if I have love, any love,。
it is not my own ability.。
It's all because of Jesus.。
It's all because of Jesus.。
This is why love is a gift from God,。
the greatest gift in our lives.。
So today I'm giving this message,。
number one, love is the greatest gift in our lives.。
Second, love is the greatest power.。
Everybody, love is the greatest power.。
There is a very well-known research。
called Grant and Gluck study, Grant and Gluck study.。
For over 75 years, they researched 456,。
listen, 456 very poor men growing up in Boston。
from 1939 up to 2014.。
75 years of research, can you imagine?。
And then 200, in the opposite, in comparison,。
268 male graduates from Harvard University,。
classes of 1939 to 1944.。
Very contrasting group.。
Very poor people, very wealthy people.。
And their research, after 75 years later,。
tens of millions of dollars of research investment,。
this research concludes,。
the most important single factor in our life。
that makes our life truly happier and healthier is what?。
Only love.。
Not money, not education, not position, nothing else.。
But the single factor that makes human。
really healthy and happy is love.。
Furthermore, when one has,。
when you have this solid and lasting love in your life,。
you feel that life is satisfying and even fulfilling.。
So everything depends on love.。
This is the power of love.。
Love is the most important and the greatest power in life.。
Since we forget spiritual things so easily, right?。
You guys forget, but spiritual things,。
it's easier to forget.。
Next week, you don't remember。
what you heard the previous week, right?。
Since we forget spiritual things so easily,。
I repeat some very powerful stories again and again.。
Some of you guys hear me, heard me,。
talking about this story again and again.。
One of these stories is the man, Nick Vujicic.。
Do you remember Nick Vujicic?。
Yeah, this is the guy.。
When Nick Vujicic was born,。
he was now Australian pastor.。
When he was born, without two arms, without one legs.。
And the remaining one leg is a very tiny little one.。
It's not like the real legs.。
So, do you know, even at the age of eight,。
my second daughter, my first daughter, is now eight.。
My daughter's 50s age.。
When this guy, Nick Vujicic, when he was only eight years old,。
he learned about despair.。
Only despair.。
He couldn't find any hope in his life.。
He thought no one would love him,。
or no woman would want to get married to.。
Who will actually love him?。
Look at myself.。
But however, in his teens, Nick Vujicic met Jesus Christ.。
And the power of Jesus' love changed him.。
And verse nine in today's passage, it goes like this.。
Let's read together.。
This is how God showed his love among us.。
He sent his one and only son into the world。
that we might live through him.。
Nick Vujicic, this brother, began to see hope。
in his life through Jesus' love.。
He began to see his life as a unique one。
from God's perspective.。
Before meeting Jesus, he thought, I do not have any hope.。
But after meeting Jesus, Jesus' love changed his heart.。
He began to see his life, my life is just unique.。
My body is just unique, a gift from God.。
From God.。
He finished his college degree.。
He swims without legs and arms.。
He can swim.。
He does all kinds of sports.。
And nothing could stop him.。
He drums with his little tiny foot.。
Yeah, he plays drums.。
He enjoys life fully.。
And his wonderful character, his heart,。
and right attitude toward life。
made him a very good international speaker.。
He travels all around the world.。
And he gives the message about Jesus, message about hope.。
So even though he does not have any arms to hug others,。
hundreds of thousands of people in the world,。
they hugged this guy.。
Because they learned how to thank。
and how to love this life on earth.。
And you know what?。
And finally, look at the picture.。
Finally, a woman, beautiful woman,。
she loved Nick Vujicic.。
They got married and have four beautiful children,。
as you see in the picture.。
And where all these miracles start?。
Where these miracles start?。
Yes, from Jesus' love.。
Love has the greatest power in our life.。
When you meet true love, you will surely change,。
and your life will be surely different.。
And that true love is Jesus, God's love.。
Message is simple.。
Love is the greatest gift.。
Second, love is the greatest power.。
And then, the last one, third, what is love to you?。
What is love?。
Third, love is the greatest purpose.。
Everybody, love is the greatest purpose.。
What does this mean, love is the greatest purpose?。
Since we were made in God's image,。
who is love, the very essence of being a human is love.。
We were made to love each other fully without fear.。
However, we fall in love with many undesirable.。
We want to love, but we love many undesirable,。
unhealthy things in our lives.。
We love, in other words, we love what we should not love.。
Why do people pursue money?。
Why do people pursue money?。
Yes, they love money more than any other things.。
So for those people who love money,。
sometimes money is more important than relationship.。
Sometimes money is more important than their family.。
How about those people pursuing power?。
In a month, you know, in a month, in Korea,。
there will be the presidential election.。
And then those presidential election candidates,。
they are pursuing power, right, and fame.。
That's what they love.。
For these guys, their candidates,。
like Joe Biden and Donald Trump did,。
nothing is more important.。
So they almost try to destroy the others。
through all possible ways to get the power.。
Because for them, power is what they love.。
Here is a very famous picture.。
When you look at the left side, you can see a picture.。
The picture is very small,。
but there is a very black little child.。
She's a Sudanese girl.。
And she was going to the food center.。
On her way to the feeding center,。
because of hunger, she collapsed on the road。
without any power to go on.。
Do you see, there's a vulture.。
There's a very big, yeah, like eagle,。
a vulture waiting for her to die.。
Very tragic picture.。
The photographer who took this picture。
was the guy on the right side.。
His name was Kevin Carter, 1993, in Sudan.。
At first, this photographer tried to drive away the vulture。
from the girl for a time.。
However, when this guy was going to the place,。
people warned him not to touch anything。
because it could bring some infection, like coronavirus.。
It was not that serious in those days,。
but some kinds of infection.。
So he was warned.。
At first, he was trying to protect her.。
But later, he didn't really try to protect this girl。
and just went away.。
Next year, because of this picture,。
Kevin Carter, he got Pulitzer Prize.。
Do you know Pulitzer Prize?。
The highest honor for a journalist.。
However, only a few months later,。
Kevin Carter, this guy, committed suicide.。
He didn't love the girl's life at the moment.。
However, later, when he came to the right mind,。
he realized that he loved the wrong things,。
his career, his report, his safety,。
while neglecting a human's tragic death.。
Do you think that Kevin Carter is a really evil guy?。
But that's who we are.。
We are choosing the wrong things over the right things.。
We are loving the wrong things over the right things。
most of the time.。
That's why the world is not changing.。
That's why the church is not being criticized。
because we are not changing.。
Because we love so many unhealthy things。
more than any other things.。
We don't know how to love the right things.。
My brothers and sisters, we are like him.。
We are no better than him.。
Are you choosing the right thing?。
Or are you neglecting the people you should love。
in your life?。
We have one life, brothers and sisters.。
We have one purpose.。
And how do we know the purpose of our lives?。
How do you know what is the purpose of your life?。
When we look at what you love.。
When we look at what you love, it shows what you love.。
What you care is the purpose of your life.。
But Jesus gave us only one command.。
Summarizing all the commands in the Old Testament.。
316 commands and laws in the Old Testament.。
Jesus summarized all the 613 laws into one.。
Like this, love God and love your neighbor。
as you love yourself.。
And the last supper, right before going to the cross.。
Some hours later, Jesus was going to be killed.。
But Jesus gave only one command.。
John 15, chapter 15, verse 17.。
This is my command, love each other.。
Let's read together.。
This is my command, love each other.。
According to Jesus' command, there should be only。
one purpose in our lives, which is love.。
Love is and should be the greatest purpose in our lives.。
Because love is the greatest gift.。
And love is the greatest power in our lives.。
God wants us to live a truly happy and full life.。
God wants to give us a good life.。
And this kind of life comes only through true love.。
Without true love, our life is just empty.。
Without love, life's just empty.。
Before closing, I'm gonna give you a very short three tips.。
Here are a few practical ideas to help you。
to be a man and woman of a true love.。
How can we do that?。
Number one, you need to love what is good and real.。
Listen, you need to love what is good and real.。
You should not love what is not good, what is not real.。
I repeatedly have warned you.。
Most of us are seriously addicted to media.。
How many hours are you spending your time for media?。
Or your money?。
Or shopping?。
Or sexual temptations?。
Because you are young people.。
God wants to give all those things for true love.。
But if you are addicted to the wrong things,。
God cannot give you the right things.。
And those things cannot make you truly happy.。
They make you slaves of sin and steal your heart。
and destroy your life.。
Instead, what is real and what is good,。
you need to love God.。
You need to love God.。
That is my urge for you guys.。
You should love God.。
Not just coming to the Sunday worship is not enough.。
You should love God more than anything else.。
If you love God, then you'll be blessed.。
How can you love God?。
Make Sunday worship the center of your life.。
My brothers and sisters,。
make the Sunday worship the center of your life.。
Keep Sunday worship in any case.。
It's simple.。
If you neglect Sunday worship,。
if you choose work over Sunday worship,。
you are loving money more than God.。
You need to make reading God's word。
and praying the first priority in your life.。
You need to meet God in your daily life.。
You need to read God's word.。
You need to spend time with God.。
That should be the first priority in your life.。
I'm telling you the truth again.。
You cannot serve God and money at the same time.。
In your life, the greatest enemy,。
the greatest idol is money.。
You should be careful.。
Second, you need to love how to express love through words.。
How is your mouth?。
Your words has a lot of power.。
You need to learn how to hold up your mouth.。
We speak so many useless, negative, and destructive words.。
Then we mess up our relationship.。
Why our relationships are messed up, broken?。
Mostly because of our hearts and because of our words.。
And then we have been reinforced to spit,。
to spit poisonous words throughout our lives continuously.。
Actually, when we are doing it,。
we are killing and ruining our families。
and people around us through our words.。
And we cannot change ourselves.。
Sometimes we understand that。
we are spitting out very poisonous words.。
But can you change yourself?。
Can you change your mouth?。
Why can't you change?。
Because before that, you need to change your heart.。
You need to change your heart.。
When can we change?。
When we are filled with the Holy Spirit.。
This is why you should love the Holy Spirit.。
Do you desire the Holy Spirit?。
Do you desire the Holy Spirit?。
Holy Spirit, you are the first one I want to get,。
I want to receive, I want to spend time with.。
When you love the Holy Spirit, He will change you.。
He will change your heart, your mouth, and your behavior.。
You know what?。
We remember a really beautiful word someone spoke to us.。
When I was working as a teacher,。
a woman sister who was much younger than I,。
she spoke one word to me,。
maybe more than around 20 years ago.。
But I cherish the expression。
because it really pleased me.。
Very kind and honoring word.。
But how about this?。
Instead, we cannot forget some very hurtful words。
someone told us many, many years ago.。
Word has great power.。
We need to learn how to love each other through words.。
Third, the last one.。
Love is spiritual.。
Love is spiritual.。
What does that mean?。
Love includes some emotional parts, I know.。
Emotion is very important.。
However, ultimately, love is from God and it is spiritual.。
So if you follow the way of God, what does that mean?。
Love is spiritual, what does that mean?。
If you follow the way of God,。
if you obey God's word,。
you'll be better ready to love.。
Your heart will be better ready to love on a daily basis.。
But if you do not follow the way of God,。
if you do not obey the way of God,。
you will never be able to love others.。
Love belongs to God.。
We cannot love others by ourselves.。
Whenever we gather without Jesus, it's a tragedy.。
You know, church is not a safe place.。
Without Jesus, we can't hurt each other.。
Only when we gather with Jesus, in the name of Jesus,。
whenever we worship, that is the time we are healed。
and our relationship will be different.。
Let me close.。
Listen, remember, love is the greatest gift coming from God,。
the greatest power coming from God's love and forgiveness.。
And love is the greatest purpose of our life,。
found only in God.。
