Hey family, it's great to be with you again. I hope that you had a good week。
I hope that you're encouraged and experiencing God's blessing in your life this week。
I'm praying for you. And as always I want to encourage you to reach out to us。
You can send us an email at info urban voice church comm we'd love to hear from you。
Any comments or questions you might have or any way that we can pray for you and this week?。
We're back in Matthew chapter 7 looking at this section where Jesus is talking about judgment。
And we're talking about how important it is to not have a judgmental attitude。
That's what we're really going to focus on this week how to avoid being。
Judgmental and Jesus is giving us a lot of truth in these verses about how to avoid being judgmental。
So let's look at these verses together. We're gonna start in verse 1 and read down。
To verse 5 this is Matthew chapter 7。
It says this judge not that you be not judged for with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged and with the measure you use。
It will be measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye?。
But do not notice the log that is in your own eye or how can you say to your brother?。
Let me take the speck out of your eye when there is a log in your own eye you hypocrite。
First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye。
Now last week we kind of did an intro we started to talk about what?。
Judgment is and what biblical discernment is and we talked about the fact that judgment is really。
comparing something to a standard and for us as believers。
That standard is God's truth that we we know from God's Word and so for us to exercise discernment。
To make judgments about things we compare them to God's truth and to God's Word。
And we also talked about the fact that that's something that is important to our lives in a lot of ways。
We talked about the fact that judgment has a very negative connotation。
and。
That's okay. It has a negative connotation for good reason it has a negative connotation because。
People and often people in the church have been very judgmental of others。
And so that has caused people to have this reaction to it and to say that's something bad。
But even though it has a negative connotation。
We it's still something that we have to do we have to exercise discernment。
We have to exercise judgment in order to function in order to live life in order to make decisions in order to have。
Relationships with other people and in order to know what's right and wrong and what's healthy for us, and what's not healthy。
So we talked about that last week all of those things and this week what I want us to start to do is to start。
To see how we can avoid having a judgmental attitude. That's really I believe what Jesus is saying in this verse in verse 1。
He's not saying that we shouldn't judge。
He's saying that we should not have a judgmental attitude。
And he's laying out a lot of ways that we need to avoid having a judgmental attitude, so I want us to begin to。
Examine that today。
The first thing I want us to see about a judgmental attitude. That's unhealthy is that a judgmental attitude is。
Graceless it doesn't see God's grace in my life or God's grace in the life of others a judgmental attitude is。
Graceless you know verse 2 Jesus says for with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged and with the measure you use。
It will be measured to you。
Now what is Jesus saying in that verse is he's saying that you know however you judge someone else is how God is going to。
Judge you if you judge harshly God will judge you harshly。
I don't think that's really what Jesus is saying because we know biblically that God judges us all according to the same。
Standard his standard of justice and righteousness and that by the way none of us could ever measure up to it。
That's only because of Jesus that any of us can be accepted in God's sight God is not a biased judge。
He judges us all by the same standard。
So I don't think this this verse is saying that God's standard will change depending upon how we treat others。
I think this verse is actually really similar to Matthew 5 14。
Where Jesus is talking about forgiveness and in that verse Jesus is not saying that if we don't forgive others God will refuse to forgive us。
But what Jesus is saying is that in light of how much God has forgiven us。
That we should be able to forgive others, and I think Jesus is saying something very similar here in Matthew 7 - he's saying look。
Look at the measure that God has judged you with。
Look at the mercy and grace that God has poured out into your life。
Look at your own need and how much you fell short of God's standard and how much you messed up and how much。
you sinned and how broken you were and。
That's the type of judgment that you need to pronounce on someone else。
You need to be full of grace when you look at someone else's life。
And I think that's a huge way that we can begin to avoid being。
Judgmental in our life and avoid having a judgmental attitude is by practicing awareness of God's grace in our life。
We should not ignore the activity of God's grace in our heart and in our life。
And we should extend grace to others。
Because when we examine our life and say God has forgiven me of so much God has covered。
So much of my mistakes God has healed so much of my brokenness。
God has restored so much of the stuff that I did foolishly or I wasted or I did something completely。
I was headed in the wrong direction completely and God。
Turned me around and restored me and he fixed it or I did something unkind to someone else and I I harmed a relationship。
And God restored it and healed it and God brought forgiveness and all this stuff when we start to see。
God's grace and mercy and how deeply it was poured into our heart and our life。
Then we can begin to extend grace to others and I think that's what Jesus is saying in verse 2 here。
He's saying that we need to be aware of God's grace and extend that to someone else。
And so that's one of the big ways we can avoid being judgmental is by practicing awareness of God's grace。
The next thing I want us to see about a judgmental attitude is that a judgmental attitude is arrogant. It's proud and。
The way that we can really avoid that type of attitude is by practicing。
poverty of spirit we talked about poverty of spirits the first beatitude in Matthew chapter 5 and。
We talked about what it really is. It's an awareness of our spiritual bankruptcy before God。
It's an awareness of our need and when we are aware of our spiritual bankruptcy before God it gives us a deep。
humility and。
Humility is so important humility is probably one of the most defining。
characteristics of a true Christian a true believer a true subject of the kingdom of heaven is that。
That person should be humble and that person should live with a deep humility a deep awareness of their own need for God。
And if we are full of humility。
We will not be having a judgmental attitude towards others。
Even when we begin to see something in someone else's life that is unhealthy。
We will respond to it with a spirit of love and we will respond to it honestly with the spirit of brokenness。
when we see someone else who is who is。
Struggling or who has some need in their life. We should never have a spirit of saying. Oh, I'm better than that person。
Yeah, they're having a problem. I would never have that problem。
If our heart is the heart of Jesus our heart says I am so。
broken and sad over this need in their life and how hurting they are and how。
They've made this mistake and how it's damaged their life and and I'm I'm broken up and and I'm in tears over it。
Not an attitude that says yeah, I knew it. I knew they were gonna mess up or look at me compared to them。
I'm so much better. That is a judgmental and proud and arrogant attitude。
And Jesus is calling us to an attitude of humility that when we make discernments。
we should do that with a deep humility and。
even if we're in a position where we are able to discern something and judge something that someone else cannot see and God allows us to。
See some of his truth in a way that someone else doesn't we still are gonna communicate that。
From a place of humility and love and care for someone else, you know。
another thing about a judgmental attitude is that it's focused on the brokenness of others or the problems of others and。
one of the ways that we can avoid that is by practicing seeing our own brokenness first and。
Jesus makes it so clear for us here in this passage in verses 3 to 5。
He says this why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye?。
But do not notice the log that is in your own eye or how can you say to your brother?。
Let me take the speck out of your eye when there is the log in your own eye。
You hypocrite first take the log out of your own eye and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye。
Jesus uses this metaphor for us. That's so engaging and beautiful, but it's it's humorous and。
He does that on purpose. He says look this is what you look like。
When you go out with a proud self-righteous attitude and you don't see your own brokenness。
You don't see your own need and you start trying to help someone else。
You look like somebody who has a giant。
Splinter a log size splinter in your eye and you're looking at someone else saying hey。
there's a little speck of dirt in your eye, let me brush it out for you and。
Everybody in the room is looking right at you and going. Hey, do you not see there's a log in your eye?。
Do you not get this and that's what Jesus is describing for us?。
He's saying stop looking at the brokenness of other people first stop seeing their problems first and stop thinking。
Oh, this is all them and I'm here to fix it because I'm such a great person。
Jesus is saying no, that is not a kingdom value. The attitude is wrong. It's proud and arrogant。
Jesus is saying see your own need first。
You know one of the things that I've seen in my life。
Maybe you've seen this in your life。
Is it sometimes the the things that irritate us the most about other people?。
Or the situations that irritate us the most or the personality types that irritate us the most。
One of the reasons they irritate us so much is。
That that's who we are。
sometimes the people that we clash with the most are the people that are most like us and。
There's something about seeing our own sin and our own。
weakness and our own。
Idiosyncrasies。
Reflected in someone else that just drives us crazy and we want to call it out and we want to say hey stop being arrogant。
Because we're arrogant and we want to say hey stop being unkind because we're unkind。
And we want to say hey stop being unjust because we're unjust we want to say hey stop favoring other people。
Because we are favoring other people。
You know a lot of times that is a big red flag to us。
When we find ourselves being really irritated at someone else。
It's a big red flag that that。
Same issue is probably something in our life and we should use it as a red flag to say wait。
I need to go back and examine my heart. Why is this bugging me so much?。
Why is it bugging me so much that I see this person at work who's?。
Unsuccessful and and I don't feel like they deserve it and it's just making me so mad。
Maybe it's because。
I've taken some shortcuts and I've done some things to try to。
Put myself in a position that I didn't deserve and so when I see someone else behaving in that way。
Then it just makes me angry. Why is it that when I see someone else being manipulative?。
It makes me so upset and I say they've got to stop being so manipulative。
Maybe it's because I'm manipulative in some of my relationships. And so I know how to recognize it in someone else。
And so when I see it in them, I know exactly what's going on。
And that's why I'm so frustrated and angry and I I lash out at them so much。
oftentimes the brokenness of someone else is reflecting our own brokenness and。
We want to try to go fix their brokenness and Jesus is saying no you examine your heart first。
You let God deal with your brokenness first. You let God deal with your sin first。
You take your need to God and then after God heals you and restores you and helps you。
You'll actually be able to help someone else because first of all now you can actually see clearly. I love the。
Illustration Jesus gives us here of stuff in your eye because obviously if something's in your eye, you can't see clearly。
so how are you gonna help someone else when you're half blind because there's stuff in your eye and。
That really helps us to apply what Jesus is saying here first。
We've got to let God deal with our brokenness and our sin and then after that maybe we can go help someone else。
Because we can see clearly。
But also now we have a testimony if God has worked on your brokenness and helped you to to be healed and to be restored。
Now you can see clearly。
What how you can help someone else, but you also have a testimony to share with someone else and you can say yeah。
You know what?。
I'm just as broken as you are and I used to struggle with that exact same thing。
And this is how Jesus brought healing and restoration of my life。
And this is how Jesus helped me and you have an attitude of grace and humility。
And true concern for that person and what's going on in their life and you actually have a testimony something。
That's helpful that you can share with them instead of just saying hey, you're wrong and I don't like it。
I don't like what you're doing, right?。
That's a judgmental attitude and Jesus is。
Calling us to examine our own hearts first and we have got to practice that in the church。
We've got to look at our own need first before we try to fix。
Everybody else around us and another thing that we see about a judgmental attitude is a judgmental attitude is。
Misjudging this is huge. This is so important for us to understand as humans。
We look on the outward appearance。
That's what we see and that's all we can see and we misjudge a lot of things based on the outward appearance。
And we've got to stop doing that, you know in first Samuel 16 7。
this is when the Prophet Samuel has gone to anoint the next king of Israel and。
God tells him to go that he's gonna be one of the sons of Jesse。
And so it's Jesse's son start coming out and the Prophet Samuel's looking at Jesse's sons。
And he sees this guy named Eliab who apparently was you know。
big and strong and handsome and everything that Samuel thought a king should be and。
Samuel says oh, this is probably the guy I should go ahead and anoint him because you know, this is King material right here。
and in verse 7。
God says this。
But the Lord said to Samuel do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature。
Because I have rejected him for the Lord sees not as man sees。
Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart。
God is the only one who can see our hearts and see our thoughts and see our intentions and see our motivations。
God can see that the Bible is clear about that Genesis 6 5 says the Lord saw。
The wickedness of man was great in the earth and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually。
that verse is before God's judgment in the days of Noah and。
That verse tells us that God can see our thoughts and God can see our intention and God knows if it's evil。
Or if it's wicked God knows what's in our heart. He knows what's in our head。
He knows what's on the inside of us. The Bible is clear about that。
But here's the thing we as humans do not and that's one of our biggest。
Problems in judging other people. That's one of the ways that we get ourselves into the most trouble is。
We begin to think that we are able to judge someone else's intent。
Someone else's motivation someone else's thoughts why they did something and answer all these questions that we cannot answer。
When Jesus talks about exercising right judgment。
The only thing we can do as humans is compare someone else's actions to God's standard and say was their action。
Right, was it healthy we can do that。
Okay, but we do not have any grounds to。
Say why they did it or to judge their intents or their motivations or their thoughts。
I don't believe you can find any place in scripture to support。
The view that we as humans are able to judge the intents and thoughts and motivations of others。
Only God can do that and yet we try to do that all the time。
We judge intent all the time. You hear us as humans saying. Oh, well, he thought this. Oh, well, she thought that oh。
he did this because and。
Then we list a motivation or we list an emotion or we list a thought or we list an intention。
we have no idea if they did that because。
We say oh well this happened because this person felt this way. We don't know how they feel。
We say this happened because they were afraid。
Well, maybe so but we also it could have also been because they were excited. We have no idea。
What is going on inside the heart of another person?。
We can discern and make judgment decisions based on someone's actions. We can look at someone else's life and say。
We can compare it to the standard of God's truth and say okay that action was not healthy。
God has said that that's not a healthy action for us to undertake。
God has said that if we undertake that action it's gonna harm us. It's gonna harm the people around us。
We can look at someone's action and know if it was healthy or not。
But we do not know what's in their heart and we have got to stop doing that。
that's such an unhealthy thing for us to do and I would say a great way for us to。
Avoid that type of judgmental attitude is to to practice banning ourselves。
from judging intent and motivation and thoughts。
When you find yourself observing someone else's actions observing someone else's behavior。
Whether it's in life you you actually see someone do something that's wrong or are unhealthy or unkind to someone else。
Or maybe it's you know on social media or something whenever you。
Observe someone in some way and you start to think oh。
They were thinking this. Oh, they said that because oh they did that because oh, I know why that happened。
They intended to do this。
Oh。
They were being manipulative and they said this to make me think that when you start to go through those mental。
Gymnastics and you start to tell yourself that you know。
What people are thinking or what they intended or what their motivations were or what their thoughts were?。
You need to say wait, I I can't do that. I don't actually know. I don't know why they said that。
I don't know why they did that. I don't know why they reacted that way。
Sometimes we just assume well this person reacted negatively to me because they they don't like me。
maybe they reacted negatively to to me because。
They were having a terrible day and there was all these things that happened in their day that I didn't observe and had no idea。
About or maybe they totally misunderstood what I said。
Maybe they thought I said something that that I didn't even say I remember a long time ago when I was in college。
I had a bad ear infection and I happened to be。
leading this Bible study and there was quite a few young people there was like high school students and。
I was leading and we were in a room and I was having people go around and introduce。
Themselves and we were sitting in a big circle. There were some adults in the circle as well。
and so the young people were introducing themselves and。
answering some icebreaker questions and we got like halfway around the circle and。
One of the young people said kind of quietly。
Why don't you let the adults introduce themselves because there were some adults in the circle and I thought。
that this young person said。
there's some people outside who need your help and so I got up and。
Walked out of the room left the circle walked out the door and went outside。
I was outside looking around for a while couldn't find anybody then I came back into the room。
Everybody was staring at me like I was an alien and I said, yeah, there's no one out there。
I couldn't find anybody and。
Everybody started laughing and people are like, what are you talking about?。
And so I was like, I don't know and then they explained to me that this young person had said。
Why don't you let the adults introduce themselves? I。
undertook a really strange action。
Because I totally misunderstood what this person had said and that happens in life all the time。
things happen because of。
misunderstandings things happen because of。
fear or frustration or hurt things people do things because of something they've gone through in the past in a。
Situation our relationship reminds them of that past hurt and they respond in a way that might be uncharacteristic。
We have got to stop always thinking that we know。
Why people are doing things or we know what they intend or we know what their thoughts are。
We know what motivates them because we don't。
God does and Jesus calls us to right judgment。
It's not that we can't ever look at someone's action and say that that's that's wrong or that's unhealthier。
That's not good for them。
We can and we actually have to do that if we love people in our lives. There are moments where we have to say。
That action is unhealthy. It's harming them. It's harming the people around them and I care about them。
So I'm gonna be honest about that. We have to do that in life。
But even in those moments we do not know what their thoughts and intents are and we shouldn't act like we do。
We've got to learn。
To ban ourselves from doing that when we find ourselves doing that we have to say hey。
I need to stop because I don't know what they're thinking. I don't know why they did that。
I I don't have that type of wisdom only God knows that and so I'm gonna focus on helping them to。
Respond to God and to make right decisions. I'm gonna focus on loving them。
I'm gonna focus on caring for them, but I'm not gonna attribute thoughts and intents and motivations to them because I don't know what they are。
Unless those are expressed to me in some way。
I have no idea what is in someone's heart and we've got to live by that to avoid a judgmental attitude。
Now there's a lot more aspects of avoiding a judgmental attitude that we're going to talk about next week。
But those are some big ones for us to practice this week。
We need to practice awareness of God's grace and extend that to others。
We need to practice poverty of spirit and humility so that we're not arrogant and proud。
We need to practice seeing our own brokenness first like Jesus taught us and we need to practice banning ourselves。
from judging。
Intent and motivation and thoughts and things like that that we just don't know and that we're not able to know。
We don't have the ability to know those things。
So let's work on these things this week in our life as we encounter them as we exercise judgment and make discernments。
All of us have to do it all the time every day throughout the week. And so as we do that this week。
Let's really start。
allowing Jesus to work on our heart so that we will not have a judgmental attitude so that we'll be kind and loving and caring and。
Operate from a place of love as we interact with other people and even when we see some someone doing something unhealthy。
That's something that God has told us is not a behavior for us to engage in we can have a spirit of love and kindness。
as we as we interact with that and as we encourage our friends and our loved ones and the people around us towards。
Right behaviors. We need to have a spirit of love and care for others at all times and a spirit of humility a。
Spirit of seeing our own need for God a spirit of grace. Let's pray。
God, I just pray that you would give us an awareness of your grace and how much you've extended grace to us and。
That we would live from that place of knowing how much mercy and grace you poured into our lives and we would extend it to others。
God, I pray you'd give us poverty of spirit。
Help us to see our own need for you and help us to have meekness that comes out of that。
because we see our need for you or we're able to operate from a place of humility and。
And to see our own brokenness first God。
I pray you'd help us to see our brokenness before we look at the brokenness of others help us to examine our own heart first。
God and God help us not to misjudge others because we only see the outward appearance。
Help us not to think we know what's going on in the heart when we don't and help us to be honest about that。
God。
help us to love and care for the people around us and help us to even when we need to exercise discernment and judgment and。
even when we need to。
To help someone else to move towards you and to move towards right relationship to you God help us to do that。
In a way that comes。
From love and in something that is rooted in your love and your love for us and your love for others God help us to always。
Operate from a place of love God and even as we exercise discernment God help us to grow in this right now this week。
help us to grow in。
avoiding a judgmental attitude and having。
Discernment and right judgment that honors you God in Jesus name. Amen。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
