from the word of God.。
- Thank you, James, thank you.。
Well, as you can see, I'm ready to fly,。
and the plane going to Israel for me。
is around five o'clock, I guess.。
I haven't checked, but we'll be there.。
And there was a connecting flight in Vienna,。
and we're gonna stay there, lay over for three, four hours,。
play some music in Vienna,。
and we're ready to go to Tel Aviv, all right?。
So yeah, thank you for praying for us,。
and I wanna say a note of thanks to the church。
and the leaders and the pastoral staff, especially,。
because all of the things that they are doing,。
trying to fill the gap while I'm gone,。
and it's very helpful,。
so that I can be sent to go to Israel。
to lead a group of people.。
And this round, we have 27 people in total.。
Only 10 people are from our church,。
and all the rest of the 17 are from Hong Kong, Canada,。
a lot of different places, yeah.。
Actually, a few of them already arrived,。
so thank God, all right?。
Thank God they already arrived safely, all right?。
I just got a text not too long ago.。
One of our members forgot to bring her credit card,。
and she had to go back home and grab the credit card。
before going to the airport.。
Yeah, that is very important.。
Trust me, going to Israel, you only need two things.。
One is the valid passport, US passport,。
valid US passport or visa,。
and second thing is a credit card, all right?。
That's all you need, all right?。
You don't have to bring anything, just two things, right?。
Just a passport and a valid credit card,。
and then you'll be good, yeah.。
And yeah, I'm looking forward to this trip,。
and by the way, I'm not a tour guide.。
I don't charge, I don't get any tips, you know?。
I don't live off--。
- You should.。
- I should, right?。
I should, yeah, I should, I know, but I don't take it.。
I don't take it.。
I do it for, you know, as a service,。
as a teaching service to other people.。
So God has blessed us with some resources,。
and we can share with some other sisters and brothers。
in Christ, some other people who are interested.。
In fact, this round, we have 27 people.。
One person is a non-Christian,。
and he's just interested to go to Israel, right?。
Who's not interested to go to Israel, right?。
Yeah, it's exotic, exotic place, yeah, exotic place.。
Yeah, it's gonna have a lot of fun.。
I'm gonna buy you something, okay?。
I'm gonna buy you some ajava hand cream, okay?。
So you come back Tuesdays, I'll have a big bottle。
of ajava dead sea, dead sea extract hand cream, all right?。
How about that?。
Anyone?。
No, you don't want it?。
Do you want it or not?。
All right, all right, okay, I'll bring you something.。
I'll bring you something, all right?。
I'll bring you something we can share, okay?。
Lotion is welcome, all right?。
Anyways, I may bring you a bottle of water,。
you know, holy water from Jordan River.。
How about that?。
So yeah, right?。
And we can take that in the chameleon, right?。
Everyone can take a sip.。
It's good for your health, yeah.。
Anyways, we'll continue with our topic on worship.。
We talked a little bit about worship last week。
when Brenda was here, Sun Music was here.。
And I think it's appropriate to continue to think。
about what worship is all about.。
And I think in our generation, worship is a lost art.。
You know, if you think about it,。
when you come to church to worship,。
when you come to worship today,。
what did you do to prepare yourself?。
What did you do to prepare yourself to worship?。
All right, talk to your neighbor.。
How did you prepare for today's worship?。
What did you do?。
What did you do?。
What did you do?。
What exactly did you do, you know, okay?。
Maybe a cup of coffee,。
maybe, did you brush your teeth?。
Yes, I hope so.。
You change, and you walk into a place of worship,。
and you wanna offer praises to God.。
And as I said, worship is a lost art today.。
We take things for granted.。
We often approach worship with a mindset。
that we don't need to prepare.。
There's nothing for us to do。
to prepare ourselves to worship.。
When we think of preparation,。
we think of someone else is doing the preparation, right?。
The worship band, the worship people,。
they gotta prepare, right?。
Did they practice?。
Well, you can tell, right?。
They did practice, right?。
Couple days ago, they practiced here,。
and that's why we have a worship set, right?。
And in the backstage, they got the lyrics on,。
they got the cameras on, they got everything,。
PowerPoint and stuff like that,。
and the temperature of the room is just。
to a comfort of my level.。
There are many things we can think about,。
preparation of worship, but so often,。
we shift the focus to someone else。
doing the preparation for us.。
And for us to come to worship,。
we often think that we don't need to do anything to worship.。
You need to understand, some of the ancient architecture,。
when the ancient people, they built a temple,。
a place of worship, a sacred place, or ancient church,。
they always have stairs going up to a temple。
or a church building.。
And so often, you realize the architecture。
is a little interesting, because the steps going up。
to the place of worship, the sacred place,。
is often uneven steps, some longer, some shorter,。
and then some longer, some shorter.。
What are they trying to do?。
They're actually trying to design the building。
in such a way that when people, worshipers,。
approach the sacred place, they will approach。
with care and slowly.。
And that's why the steps are uneven at times.。
Those are called processional steps.。
So you have to be careful.。
Not every step is even.。
And you have to take care when you go up to the temple。
or go up to a sacred place.。
It's a matter of preparation.。
I have been to Israel so many times, since 2008.。
Sometimes I go there two times a year,。
sometimes once a year.。
I was fascinated by another culture,。
not so Western culture,。
how they approach this sort of sacred place,。
worship place.。
I remember one time, I was, a couple years ago,。
before the pandemic, I took a sabbatical。
a couple weeks off from the church,。
and I went with my wife to Israel,。
and we were on the Temple Mount.。
You know the Temple Mount, the golden thing?。
The golden dome?。
The golden dome?。
Yeah, the Temple Mount.。
So we went up to the Temple Mount,。
and then, of course, it's a beautiful place, right?。
And then we were trying to take pictures,。
and my wife was next to me,。
and I put my hand on her shoulder,。
and then trying to take a selfie, right?。
And then the security guard hit my hand.。
And say, "You don't do this here."。
I said, "What?"。
He said, "You don't display affection or intimacy。
"on the Temple Mount."。
I said, "What?"。
You know, I've never been to Israel.。
It was our first time going together as a couple, right?。
I've never been to a person I can put my hand around, right?。
So I just want to seize the moment, right?。
So I just take a selfie, and hit my hand really hard,。
and then say, "Give me your camera, or give me your phone.。
"Delete that picture.。
"Delete it right here, delete the picture."。
I said, "What?。
"Okay, don't shoot me, all right?。
(audience laughing)。
"I'll delete that picture.。
"Too bad, right?"。
And there was another time,。
you know, I was doing some YouTube video and all that.。
I'm doing my selfie, right?。
I have my selfie stick,。
and just outside of an ancient church building,。
I'm trying to record what this is,。
and give a short introduction,。
and then slowly I walk from outside。
into the ancient church building.。
I walk in, and it was so quiet, because no one was there.。
And I keep filming, you know, the ceiling,。
and all the side wall, and the church environment.。
And then a monk came after me and hit my head.。
(audience laughing)。
Hit my head right here.。
I said, "What is going on?"。
He said, "You don't wear hat in the church, all right?。
"You take off your hat."。
I said, "Okay, man, what's the big deal, right?"。
It's very interesting, right?。
You go to a Christian church in Israel,。
you take off your hat,。
but you go to a synagogue,。
or Jewish, like Western Wall, Jewish sacred place,。
you have to put on your hat, or a kippur, right?。
The kippur, the Jewish, right?。
The Jewish man.。
You know, my point is,。
I'm just fascinated by, in other culture,。
how they prepare themselves to worship, right?。
Now, of course, this sort of things,。
we modern people, or Western people,。
we try to laugh at, right?。
"What's the big deal, right?。
"What's the big deal?。
"I can wear a tank top, right?。
"To the church, right?。
"Yeah, right?。
"It's democracy.。
"It's freedom."。
No, you don't do that, right?。
So, as I prepare the people, 27 of us, to go to Israel,。
we had some Zoom online sessions。
to prepare ourselves to go.。
And one of the most frequent asked questions is,。
you know, what to wear, right?。
What to wear?。
You know, like this, what I'm wearing,。
I can go to anywhere, sacred place, synagogue, churches,。
any place, I can go, right?。
But you can't wear tank top.。
You can wear shorts, go into a church or a synagogue.。
So, it's a matter of preparation, right?。
Sometimes we've lost that.。
We lost that kind of, you know,。
the art of preparing ourselves to worship.。
Now, if you think about preparing for worship,。
preparing ourselves to go into the presence of God,。
there are many scriptures you can think of.。
Probably you can think of what Jesus said。
in Sermon on the Mount.。
In the sermon, Jesus said,。
"Before you offer sacrifice in the temple,。
"you have to be in a reconciling with your neighbors."。
Right?。
You gotta do something to prepare yourselves.。
And one of the things you need to do。
is to be at peace with your neighbors,。
as much as possible, right?。
As much as possible.。
The best of your ability to keep peace with other people。
before you approach God to worship.。
Now, one of the Psalms,。
there are 150 Psalms in the Book of Psalms.。
One of the Psalms that taught us about worship is 95.。
Okay?。
Psalm 95.。
It's equally divided.。
Very short, 11 verses, Psalm.。
First half, one to seven.。
First half right here.。
It's about who to worship and why we worship.。
And the second half is about the voice of God, right?。
Now, for worship song, it's very typical.。
It's very typical to begin with some call to worship.。
Call to worship.。
Now, what call to worship means。
is that some sort of phrases or some things。
that the Psalmist singing。
or calling attention to the people of worship.。
Call for attention.。
It says what?。
Come, let us sing to the Lord.。
Let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation.。
Let us come to Him with thanksgiving.。
Let us sing Psalms of praise to Him.。
Can you trace how many,。
can you point out how many verbs there are?。
Come, right?。
Literally it means walk, right?。
Walk, physically you walk.。
You move yourself to some place.。
And then singing, shouting, right?。
Shouting in both Psalms is often victory, war cry.。
Victory.。
God is the victory.。
God has won the war for us.。
And it requires you to have some energy, right?。
Shout, right?。
It's an active verb.。
It's the active things that we do.。
And the call to worship so often。
will tell us why do we worship.。
The reasons for worship.。
Why do we come here?。
Have you ever asked yourself this question?。
Why do we come here, right?。
Why do we come?。
It's more than a routine.。
It's more than a spiritual habit。
that all Christians should have.。
It's so much more than a ritual that we do.。
It says we worship God who is great.。
And in fact, the greatest.。
For the Lord is the great God,。
great King above all gods.。
He is the greatest.。
He holds in his hands the depths of the earth,。
the highest of the mountains,。
the mightiest mountains,。
and the sea belongs to him,。
for he created it.。
His hands formed the dry land too.。
The depths of the earth,。
the lowest part of the world,。
which is the Dead Sea, by the way,。
in the land of Israel.。
And then the highest of the height, right?。
The highest mountain.。
And then the sea.。
So he's trying to capture the entire cosmos,。
which is under the creative power of God.。
The sea, in an Eastern culture,。
Oriental culture,。
is the untamable forces.。
When you think of sea, the ocean,。
it's always unconquerable.。
It's untamable by man, right?。
A couple days ago,。
a deep sea research company。
produced a 3D scan of the Titanic, right?。
The unsinkable vessel.。
What year did it sink into the ocean?。
Atlantic?。
1912.。
That's like more than 100 years ago, right?。
So this event, this tragedy,。
has fascinated many people for so many years.。
And finally, we got some 3D scans.。
I think the company captured about 700 images。
from a deep sea scan.。
And it took about 200 hours。
for computer to compile them。
and create it into a 3D scan.。
That is the Titanic.。
1912, right?。
It's haunting images。
at the depth of the ocean.。
With today's modern technologies,。
we still feel that the sea, the ocean,。
is untamable, right?。
It's just haunting images, right?。
Yeah, can you,。
just can't imagine if you suffer。
from this sort of tragedy, right?。
Crazy.。
And this is a haunting image.。
So much more realistic than this,。
Jack and Rose, yeah.。
My point is, the creation is untamable, right?。
For even for modern culture,。
or for the culture of the Bible,。
the sea, the oceans, the highest of the mountain,。
the depths of the earth,。
we cannot conquer it,。
but God holds it in His power, right?。
God holds it in His power.。
All the forces that threaten our well-being。
is all under God's power.。
I attended a few funerals recently.。
One is younger than me.。
The other one is older than me.。
Even today, with our modern technology, right?。
Healing takes time,。
and sometimes it doesn't happen, right?。
No matter how much money you have,。
how much technology you have,。
no, we feel, we still feel,。
or we have to face the final enemy,。
the forces of death, right?。
But the Psalm says, "God holds everything in His power,。
"and He has power over you, power over me."。
The Psalm talks about the power of God, the Creator.。
And to many people, and to maybe your theology,。
your understanding of God,。
is that, okay, this powerful man is like some old guy,。
some old white guy out there, right?。
It's distant from us, it's like an absentee father.。
He created the world, boom, okay, it's right there,。
and that machine will continue to work。
according to His physical principles and all that.。
And then God, where is God?。
You know, God has nothing to do with us.。
You know, kind of deistic, you know, deism.。
It's not atheism, but deism, right?。
Some sort of deistic concept of God, and He's not here.。
But the Psalm says otherwise.。
The Psalm says God has everything to do with us.。
Listen to what the Psalm says, verse six and seven.。
"Come, let us worship and bow down.。
"Let us kneel before the Lord, our Creator, our Creator,。
"for He is our God."。
We have a relationship with Him.。
And we are the people He watches over.。
He takes care of us.。
We are like flock under His care, right?。
Notice how the verbs of worship going from action verbs,。
shouting, making praises, and dancing and all that,。
and finally come to stillness, bowing down,。
kneeling before Him, right, on our knees.。
Number seven is a familiar picture, right?。
God is His shepherd, and we are His flock, His sheep.。
Now, again, most of us, modern readers of the Bible,。
we don't know how to appreciate this kind of imagery.。
We always think of sheep and lambs, right?。
What do you think of?。
Food on the table, right?。
Cook and done well, right?。
Right, in a pot, and then we can consume it.。
You know, in the Oriental or Palestinian culture,。
or nomadic culture, you rarely sacrifice a lamb, right?。
Just like you don't sacrifice a dog, right?。
You don't.。
You pet it, you take care of it, right?。
They don't, they don't sacrifice a lamb.。
Very rarely that happens.。
Maybe once a year, in Passover, right, with deep meaning.。
To the first audience, to the Oriental people,。
shepherd and sheep, it's a tight relationship, right?。
Shepherd and the sheep, because the sheep listens。
to the voice of the shepherd only.。
No one other than the shepherd.。
There was a news story some years ago.。
The Israeli army took over or captured some Palestinian lands。
and then they raided and they got all the properties。
they seized them, and one of those is a huge flock。
of sheep, hundreds of sheep.。
So the Israeli soldiers put all the sheep into the ranch.。
And how many of them?。
200 or 300 sheep in one ranch.。
And then a certain Palestinian shepherd came。
to the Israeli army and asked the soldier。
who's guarding the door of the ranch,。
and the shepherd said, "Can I have my sheep back?"。
And the Israeli soldier, "How many sheep do you have?"。
And the shepherd said, "I have 20, 25, 25 sheep。
"in the ranch."。
And this Israeli soldier, a young soldier,。
laughed at the Palestinian old guy, the shepherd,。
and said, "Well, you can try.。
"There are 300 sheep here.。
"Go ahead and find your own sheep.。
"Everyone looks the same, right?"。
And the shepherd walks to the door。
at the entrance of the ranch,。
and he started to raise his voice.。
It's like, "Come, come, come."。
Something like, "Yalla, yalla," right?。
You know what yalla is?。
Yalla is hurry up, Arabic, yeah.。
Yalla, yalla.。
And then, three, four minutes later,。
25 sheep came to the door,。
and the shepherd said, "These are my sheep."。
It's very interesting.。
All the rest of the sheep,。
they're just doing their dumb things.。
They don't listen to the voice of this shepherd,。
but this 20-some sheep followed the voice of the shepherd.。
It's a true story.。
(stammering)。
The sheep will listen to the voice of the shepherd.。
Remember Jesus said that, right, John 10?。
"I am the good shepherd,。
"and the sheep listens to my voice."。
And that's why this image of shepherd and sheep。
is a tight relationship.。
It's a relational metaphor,。
and that's why at the end of verse seven,。
it goes into another theme,。
not unrelated, it's actually very related,。
talking about the voice of God.。
If only you would listen to the voice of God,。
His voice today.。
The Lord says, "Do not harden your hearts。
"as Israel did at Meribah,。
"as they did at Masar in the wilderness.。
"For there your ancestors, your fathers,。
"tested me and tried my patience,。
"even though they saw everything I did.。
"For 40 years, for one entire generation,。
"I was angry with them,。
"and I said, 'They are a people whose hearts are hardened,。
"'turns away from me.。
"'They refuse to do what I tell them to do.'。
"So in my anger, I told and oath,。
"'They will never enter my place of rest.'"。
Now in the beginning, I said Psalm 95 had two parts, right?。
It's actually a pretty strange psalm, right?。
If you write a worship song today,。
you probably would end your song,。
like the chorus or the ending, on a positive note, right?。
You kind of wrap around, going back to, you know,。
what you call it, tonic, right?。
Yeah, you always end the song nicely.。
Psalm 95 doesn't do that.。
It opens with a joyful sound, making noises.。
"Come on, guys, make some noises, shout for joy。
"for our maker is here, we're gonna worship him."。
But then the second half, the ending,。
ends with a serious warning, a serious lesson, right?。
We often don't think a song is a good vehicle of education.。
We don't do that because a song。
usually is three, five minutes long, it's very short.。
But it can be a powerful vehicle。
for the message of God.。
When we think of the Old Testament stories,。
or the entire Old Testament scripture,。
39 books, if I asked you what stories。
would tell you the tension between God and Israel,。
what are some of the stories?。
The stories in the wilderness,。
when God saves his people by grace,。
out of the land of slavery, out of the land of Egypt,。
and he walked with them and led them。
through the wilderness for so many years,。
but after they came out of Egypt,。
they complained and they grumbled against God,。
and they distrust what God is doing.。
And God is patient, God is always long-suffering.。
Those are the stories you can think of.。
And in fact, that's what Psalm 95 does,。
to bring us back to the history of God's patience.。
Now, so often we read through the Bible,。
we always get the impression,。
"Okay, God is so mean, right?。
"How can you have so mean of God, right?。
"And he doesn't like the people,。
"he yelled at the people," and all that, right?。
But if we read scripture like that,。
I think we are doing some selective reading,。
selective understanding.。
If you read the Bible, at least the Old Testament,。
or maybe you add the New Testament,。
the entire Bible, 66 books,。
you realize that the story is not about God's wrath,。
it's about God's grace, how God is so patient。
with those who are rebellious.。
We rebel against him all the time,。
but God is always patient, right?。
And Moses is always the mediator between the two, right?。
And God is always faithful.。
And that's what Psalm 95 wants to get at.。
It is one of the best psalms on worship.。
The ending of Psalm 95 does not cater to our preference.。
We always think, "Okay, we come to the face of God,。
"we come to worship God in the presence of God."。
When we worship, yeah, it has to be,。
but you come out of it, you come out of worship。
feeling peaceful, right?。
Feeling a little bit comfortable, right?。
That is our misunderstanding.。
Sometimes the best worship is that we come before God。
and we are warned.。
We receive a serious warning to our lives.。
But we stop listening, then we'll go astray, right?。
And we'll end up in curses, in death,。
and separation from God.。
Psalm 95, second half, the last half,。
is telling you, you must direct your attention。
to the voice of God, because God is a speaking God.。
God still speaks, speaks to your heart through the spirit,。
and speaks to you in warning and in teaching.。
If we refuse to accept or listen to the voice of God,。
then we suffer the consequence.。
But God is always the gracious one.。
He wants us to listen, right?。
Sometimes the best worship doesn't cater to our preferences.。
It caters to God's preferences.。
That your attention is always on God and on God alone,。
nothing else.。
God is God speaking to you, and you are ready to listen.。
Now C.S. Lewis says something really interesting。
and fun to say about all things, about all things.。
I really started to enjoy his writings.。
He compares true worship with a pair of good shoes.。
A pair of good shoes.。
Let me give you that quote.。
He said, "A good pair of shoes。
"are the ones you don't notice.。
"The perfect church worship service。
"would be one we were almost unaware of.。
"Our attention would have been on God alone."。
That makes sense.。
You're wearing a good pair of shoes now.。
Do you pay attention to them?。
No.。
A good shoe will not get your attention, right?。
But it will carry you through, right, while you're walking.。
But you don't pay attention to them。
because you're unaware of the existence of shoes.。
A true worship is kind of like that.。
Unaware of everything else, right?。
But we are fully aware of the presence of God.。
So I invite you today to polish your craft of worship.。
Psalm 95 is not written to clergy.。
It's not written to the worship band.。
It's not written to those who are in charge of the worship,。
the worship personnel, the religious workers。
who prepare the worship service.。
It's written to all the people of God.。
It's written to you.。
How do you craft your art of worship。
so that your worship is pleasing to God?。
How do you prepare your heart, right?。
You know, the most terrible sins。
that the Israelites committed in the wilderness。
were not breaking any laws.。
They were not doing horrible crimes.。
Do you get that?。
They never do really horrible things.。
They were not criminals.。
The most horrible thing, the most terrible thing。
that the Israelites, the people of God did。
was being hard-hearted, not willing to listen.。
They're not willing to open their hearts.。
So how do you prepare your hearts?。
How do you prepare your art of worship?。
It's to pray.。
Sometimes a simple prayer,。
to pray that the Spirit will speak to you, right?。
Even for myself, sometimes I attend worship service.。
Someone else is speaking, right?。
I pray that God will speak to me, right?。
That I will have a softened heart to come before Him,。
to acknowledge, to be totally aware of His presence.。
Let's all pray together.。
And I ask the worship band to come back up here。
and sing our last song.。
And let the song be our worshipful response to God.。
And most importantly, as Psalm 95 says,。
come before God with listening ears.。
Let our heart be open to Him.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, we give You thanks for the fact。
that You are worthy of our worship.。
Yes, You are worthy, because You are our Creator,。
our Redeemer.。
We praise You, we make song, we shout.。
For You, and joyfully we do so,。
because You are worthy of our praises.。
And yes, we ask that Your Spirit will open our hearts,。
humble us, so that we'll listen to You.。
Thank You for being our God, for Your love, for Your grace.。
In Christ, we pray.。
(upbeat music)。
