Thank you, James, and thank you, Jason, as well, for leading us in worship.。
I'm excited to be here and grateful to be here with you all, and always really enjoy。
being at UV, so glad that I get to be with you today.。
And as Jason was reminding us, we are headed into the holidays, and the first kind of American。
holiday we have this time of year is Thanksgiving, which is a great holiday.。
My daughter and I, as we were driving here, we were talking about the things we enjoy。
about Thanksgiving.。
And there's lots of obvious things, like the food, and spending time with family, those。
things are great.。
But it really is a good time for us to think about being grateful, and practicing giving。
thanks and practicing gratitude.。
So that's what we're going to talk about today.。
I thought since we're headed towards this time anyway, we should talk a little bit about。
what it means to be grateful and to cultivate gratitude in our hearts.。
And gratitude is really an important thing for us.。
It's a God-honoring value that Scripture commands in a lot of different places.。
The Scripture tells us to practice gratitude.。
First Thessalonians 5.18 says it real plainly, real clearly.。
It says, "Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus。
for you."。
Can't get much more clear than that.。
Give thanks for everything in all circumstances.。
But even if that wasn't enough, just the command of Scripture, we know that practicing gratitude。
has a lot of obvious benefits in our lives.。
There's a lot of scientific studies have been done to show the benefits of gratitude.。
It improves our physical health, our psychological health, it strengthens our relationships,。
it helps us to be more resilient as people, it gives us a better view of ourselves, and。
it even helps us to sleep better.。
So there's all these reasons that we should be learning to be more grateful people.。
And yet, it's not necessarily something that is easy for us.。
A lot of us struggle to practice gratitude.。
I know I do.。
It's not something that we just naturally do.。
And I think the reason for that goes back to who we are as human beings.。
The fact that we're fallen, we're broken, we're flawed, and we live in this broken world.。
And so there are things in our world that disappoint us.。
And we disappoint ourselves.。
And things in life don't go how we want them to go.。
And because we're broken and flawed human beings, we're inherently selfish.。
We kind of know how we want life to go, and we want it to be focused on us and good for。
us.。
And when that doesn't happen, we are frustrated, or we're disappointed, or we're hurt, or we're。
confused, and it's hard for us to be grateful.。
That's one of the reasons that gratitude just doesn't naturally come out of us most of the。
time.。
And some people may, their personality, their gifting, maybe they're just more grateful。
than others.。
So if you're one of those people, that's beautiful, and that's fantastic.。
But for others, you may say, "Well, it's not easy for me, and I don't find myself being。
grateful very much.。
I don't even find myself saying thank you or things like that."。
I think for all of us, we can learn to be more grateful.。
Even if you're already a grateful person, there are more ways you could practice gratitude.。
But if you're someone who struggles with that, then certainly you could grow in that.。
And the point is that because it's not natural to us, we have to cultivate it.。
That's why we're talking about it today and saying cultivating gratitude, because it's。
not something that's just going to naturally spring up in our life.。
We have to cultivate it, just like you cultivate plants.。
You have to plant the seeds, you have to water and care for the plant and protect it from。
things that would damage it so that it will grow and bring fruit.。
And that's how gratitude is.。
We have to plant the seeds, we have to frequently water the plant and allow it to grow in our。
life and bring fruit of thanksgiving and gratefulness in our life.。
So we're going to look today at Psalm 100.。
It gives us a really beautiful template for thinking about gratitude.。
If you'd like to look at Psalm 100 in your Bible or your phone app, we're going to read。
through the entire Psalm, but don't be scared, it's only five verses.。
Some Psalms, if we were going to read through the whole thing, I would just read the Psalm。
and then we'd go home.。
But this one's short, so we can take it.。
This is Psalm 100, it says, "Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth.。
Serve the Lord with gladness.。
Come into his presence with singing, 'Know that the Lord, he is God.。
It is he who made us and we are his.。
We are his people and the sheep of his pasture.。
Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise.。
Give thanks to him, bless his name.。
For the Lord is good, his steadfast love endures forever and his faithfulness to all generations."。
Now, hopefully, just reading that Psalm encourages us a little bit and fills us with a little。
bit of gratitude.。
But this Psalm has some really practical clues in it that help us think about how to cultivate。
gratitude in our own lives, how to grow gratitude in our lives.。
The first thing I want us to see is that we cultivate gratitude as we praise God for the。
wonders of his creation.。
We cultivate gratitude in our lives as we praise God for the wonders of his creation.。
You can see this in verse one.。
It talks about how the whole earth is making a joyful noise to the Lord.。
God's power and creativity, his wisdom, his care, his beauty, those things are displayed。
in nature and in the things that he has made.。
Verse three reminds us that he's the one who made us.。
He's the one who made our world.。
So that reminds us that we should experience some gratitude as we look at this amazing。
world that God has made and as we look at our own lives and the amazing things that。
God has done in our lives.。
Verse five reminds us of God's goodness displayed in his love for his people and throughout。
the generations of human history.。
And those are important things to think about.。
If we're having trouble being grateful, we say, "I really struggle with gratitude because。
I feel disappointed or I feel hurt or I feel confused about things in the world."。
A great place to start is looking at the wonders of the world that God has made.。
Psalm 19 says that the heavens declare the glory of God and the sky above proclaims his。
handiwork day to day, pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge.。
There's no speech nor are there words whose voice is not heard.。
It's the first three verses of Psalm 19.。
And that passage reminds us that no matter where you are on the earth, no matter what。
your language or cultural background is, you can look at God's creation and experience。
the wonder of it and you can also understand that God is big and powerful and good and。
full of beauty and full of wisdom just by looking at God's creation.。
And that's a healthy thing for us to do.。
Honestly, I believe that if we can't acknowledge the goodness of God in creation, then we're。
really practicing ingratitude.。
We're really being ungrateful.。
If you think about someone giving a special and unique and valuable gift to someone else,。
if someone receives that gift and feels no gratefulness for it whatsoever, then they're。
practicing ingratitude, right?。
And God in the world that he has made has given us this amazing gift of beauty and of。
wonder and we need to acknowledge it.。
We need to acknowledge him.。
Romans 1 talks about this when it talks about how God has made plain himself in nature.。
Verse 21 in Romans chapter 1 says this, "For although they knew God, they did not honor。
him as God or give thanks to him."。
It's talking about people who looked at what God had made, they could see the reality of。
God through what he had made, but they chose not to acknowledge him or give thanks.。
And that's ungratefulness.。
And that's obviously not where we want to be.。
That's not what we want to live out and practice.。
We have to guard our hearts against this.。
And one of the ways that we guard our hearts against that is just by making sure that we're。
aware of how amazing God's world is and how beautiful it is and all the things that God。
has made.。
So there's different ways we can do this, obviously, but I kind of put it into categories。
as I was thinking about it.。
These are different ways that I see some of the wonder of God's creation.。
First of all, we see the aesthetic beauty of God's creation, right?。
And most of us are probably very familiar with that.。
That's when we look at something and we say, "That is beautiful."。
Maybe it's a sunset.。
Maybe it is where you go to the lakefront and we're looking out at the water.。
Maybe you get out of the city and spend some time in the mountains or you're in the forest。
and you just say, "Wow, this is beautiful."。
And when you experience that, the aesthetic beauty of what God has made, you should feel。
a sense of gratitude and say, "I'm grateful to God.。
Look at what he has done.。
This is just amazing and beautiful and totally gratuitous."。
That's one of the things I love about nature.。
God didn't have to make it that beautiful.。
God didn't have to make it that...。
I mean, it just does things to our heart and soul when we connect with it, when we see。
it, when we experience it.。
God didn't have to do that.。
He didn't have to use as many colors as he did.。
And yet he did that to display himself and to display his creativity and his wisdom and。
his power and his love for us.。
And so our heart should see that and respond and say, "God, I praise you.。
This is amazing.。
What a beautiful sight that I'm seeing or what a beautiful day it is."。
And Jason's right.。
We get a lot of winter in Chicago.。
But even that has its own beauty, right?。
Today is a nice day.。
It's cool and crisp out there, but it's still beautiful.。
The snowy days are beautiful in their own way.。
Then it gets kind of dirty after that.。
But we can enjoy God's beauty through nature.。
Even just looking out our window into the yard, we can enjoy that.。
The other way that I really try to reflect on God's goodness in creation is kind of maybe。
more from a scientific perspective, the scientific beauty that we see in creation.。
What I mean by that is if you start to think about the intricacy and the complexity of。
the world that God has made, if you learn a lot about the biology of our own bodies,。
you start to say, "Wow, this is really an amazingly intricate and complex thing that。
God has done in us."。
Or if you learn a lot about the universe and the cosmology of the universe kind of on a。
macro scale, it's amazing.。
It's mind-blowing.。
It's more than we can wrap our heads around, the power of God that's displayed in that.。
And those things, again, should cause us to say, "Wow, I'm grateful to God.。
I praise God because you didn't have to do this.。
You didn't have to show off like this.。
You didn't have to make it this great, and yet you did.。
And it's worthy of our praise.。
Our gratitude belongs to the Lord."。
Then the other category that's really big for me is we can really be in awe of the human。
beauty of creation.。
And I think that's significant.。
And I don't just mean human physical beauty, although God created that too.。
But I mean all the things that it means to be a human being that God made about us that。
we get to experience.。
The fact that we get to have friendships, we get to enjoy laughing together over something。
that's funny, we get to taste food together and enjoy that experience, we get to listen。
to music, and we get to have love and relationships where we can't really, as human beings, we。
can't really describe, even from kind of a scientific perspective, we can't really describe。
why love is such a big deal to us, why we feel the way we do about a family member or。
a close friend.。
Again, God didn't have to put that much beauty into us.。
He didn't have to give us those things, but he did.。
He gave us these friendships that we can't even really fully express and relationships。
with people that love us and that we love in ways that we were not even able to describe.。
God made something really beautiful when he made humans, and the Bible's clear about that.。
When God makes everything in the book of Genesis, humans, us, that was the masterpiece.。
It was the last thing and the best thing that God made.。
And we should be grateful for that.。
As we look around and we see people and we see the way that they love one another, we。
see the beautiful things that happen through relationships in our lives, we see the things。
that other people create and that other people do.。
We can be grateful to God for that wonder of his creation, the human element.。
It's something that we can be in awe of and we should be.。
The reality is, as we look at the wonder of what God has created, we start to sense our。
own smallness and it fills us with gratitude.。
Hopefully we've all experienced that on some level.。
If we haven't, then we're not looking, we're spending too much time looking at the sidewalk。
or something like that.。
But all of us should be looking at the world God has made and saying, "Wow, I'm grateful。
to see this and it gives me a sense of how small I am and my place in God's world and。
I'm grateful that I get to be here."。
That doesn't mean that there's not challenging things there are, and that doesn't mean there's。
not things that we see that are hurtful.。
There certainly are, but there are also things that we can see, even in difficult times in。
life that cause us to be grateful, that cause us to be grateful that we get to be in God's。
world.。
I remember one time when I was in college, I went to college in Hawaii and I was snorkeling。
on the big island of Hawaii, this place called Kealakakua Bay.。
I was pretty far out, it was a beautiful reef, probably about 20 feet deep, the water.。
And then the drop off was over there where it just dropped off, it got down to maybe。
30, 40 and then just dropped off into the dark blue water.。
If you've ever snorkeled in a place like that above the reef, the drop off is just really。
dark and you just can't see what's down there.。
So I was having a great time looking at all the fish and the reef and it was colorful。
and amazing.。
And I looked over to my left, I was kind of going this way, the beach was over here, drop。
off's over here.。
I look over, I see something moving over by the drop off, it's kind of silver.。
So I stop and observe for a minute and it's this big, it's coming up towards the reef。
so I can see it better and better as it's coming toward me.。
It's this big tiger shark, probably 18 to 20 feet long, huge shark.。
And the weirdest thing was what I remember feeling so distinctly in that moment.。
I had my fins on and I felt like, you know, when you have fins on you feel like you can。
move pretty good in the water.。
And I was just watching this thing cruising up and it didn't even look like it was moving。
its tail hardly and it was still moving like five times faster than me.。
And it wasn't even trying, it looked like it was drifting and it was moving so fast.。
And I just had this overwhelming feeling of being so vulnerable and out of my element。
because I felt how slow and incapable I was of going anywhere and I could see this giant。
shark like, it was easy for him to cruise through that water.。
And obviously I went into the beach and got out of the water.。
But it was one of those moments where I really felt my own smallness.。
And when we look at God's creation enough, we'll start to feel that and say, "Wow, I。
can feel my own smallness and it makes me so grateful that I get to be a part of this。
world that God has made and I get to experience it and I'm grateful for what he's done."。
Next thing we see here in Psalm 100 is the gratitude that we can have for God and the。
beauty of redemption.。
We cultivate gratitude as we praise God for the beauty of his redemption.。
In verses three, four, and five of this Psalm, we're reminded that God is good and loving.。
It tells us in verse three that he's the one who made us, we belong to him, we're his,。
we're his people, we're the sheep of his pasture.。
In verse five tells us that the Lord is good, his steadfast love endures forever, his faithfulness。
to all generations.。
God is full of care for his people.。
He's full of love and grace and mercy.。
God has done something in redeeming us that we, is beyond our capacity to describe and。
honestly beyond our capacity to really comprehend or even fully understand what we have received。
from God.。
But if we will begin to think about it and consider it and reflect on it, our hearts。
will begin to be full of gratefulness.。
Think about some of the things that it means for you, you personally, to be redeemed by。
Christ.。
God has forgiven your sin.。
He's covered your mistakes, those things in your past that you wish you could erase.。
God has covered those things.。
You may still have to deal with some of the consequences of them, but you have no guilt。
or shame from them.。
God has erased them.。
Ephesians one, verses seven and eight says this, "In him we have redemption through his。
blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished。
upon us in all wisdom and insight."。
That's your story if you have a relationship with Jesus.。
All those things are forgiven through his grace and he has lavished his love on you.。
God has healed our hurts and scars.。
We know that because we live in this broken world, all of us are harmed by different things.。
We have traumas.。
We have all of these scars in our life.。
Through Christ, God can and does heal those things.。
God is at work helping us to be made whole, to restore us, to reconcile us to other people,。
to bring us back to health in our relationships.。
That's a beautiful thing that we can be grateful for.。
God's rescued us from sin and death.。
We don't have to be afraid of death.。
We don't have to be afraid of sin.。
Jesus defeated those things.。
God's promised us a beautiful future.。
First Peter one says this, "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ according。
to his great mercy.。
He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ。
from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for。
you."。
That's your story through redemption.。
You have a living hope that cannot be touched by anything in this world.。
It will not be destroyed or diminished in any way.。
It's kept in heaven for you.。
That's your story because of redemption.。
God's given us a new start in life.。
That's one of my favorite parts of the gospel that we can be made into a new creation in。
Christ.。
We know that 2 Corinthians 5:17 talks about that, "Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he's。
a new creation.。
The old has passed away, behold the new has come."。
That's something to be grateful for.。
That's something to praise God for, something to give thanks for.。
We can be something new.。
God gives us peace and joy and hope.。
Romans 15, 13, I love this verse.。
It says, "May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing so that by。
the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope."。
Those are some amazing promises, amazing promises.。
Type of stuff that we could jump and shout and yell on the street because of how powerful。
and beautiful that is.。
The type of stuff that we should certainly be grateful for.。
They come to us because of redemption, because of what Jesus has done in our lives.。
That's something that should, as we look at it, as we think about it, as we reflect on。
it, it should fill our hearts with gratitude.。
It's a way we can cultivate gratitude in our lives is looking at the redemption that God。
has given us.。
We need to focus on the beauty of what He has done for us.。
Sometimes when we think about scripture, we think about redemption in this grand narrative。
and God saving all people.。
That is true.。
That's the beautiful grand narrative of redemption.。
Redemption also has a personal narrative that God saved you.。
God's at work in your life and He's healing you from your hurt and from your past and。
He's making you a new creation and He's making you more like Jesus.。
So when you start to think about this and be grateful for it, don't just be grateful。
that God is saving people around the world.。
Yeah, be grateful for that.。
But bring it home to your own heart and say, "I'm grateful that God saved me.。
I'm grateful that I'm not who I was.。
I'm grateful that even though I'm not yet who I want to be, that God is moving me towards。
that and He's doing something beautiful in my life."。
And you can be personally grateful for redemption.。
When I think of this, one of the illustrations I think of is like a really skillfully crafted。
work of art, if you think about something like that.。
Especially like if you think of a paint on canvas type of work of art.。
If you go down to the Art Institute, they have this giant, some of the Renaissance art。
are like huge, like 20 feet wide and 10 feet tall, huge, huge.。
You think about how long it would take to make a work of art like that, all the layers。
of paint that have to go on there, the type of vision that the artist has to have when。
they start to even know what they want to get onto the canvas, but then also the dedication。
they have to get it on there day after day for years they have to work on something like。
that.。
And you also have to know that even the most precise artist is going to make some mistakes。
and they're going to get some lines that are a little bit off.。
And so then they've got to go back and touch that up a little bit with another layer of。
paint.。
It's an amazing accomplishment to bring something like that to completion, a work of art like。
that.。
And yet that's what God is doing in our lives.。
God has this vision for your life that's not just a one week vision, it's, there's a Christian。
song from when I was in high school, I've always remembered this lyric, it says, "I。
have a plan for you, it will only take a lifetime to see through."。
That's God's vision, it's for your whole life.。
God sees the whole thing, he knows what he's doing in your life.。
He's putting on layer after layer of paint to craft you into who he wants you to be.。
And the whole time there's mistakes being made, right?。
Not by God, but by me.。
God doesn't make mistakes, but I do.。
I get outside the lines all the time.。
And God in his providence and his sovereignty and his grace and mercy and love, he finds。
ways to craft even my mistakes into something beautiful and something that's gonna be for。
my good and for his glory.。
But here's the crazy part, God's not just doing that for me, he's doing it for everyone。
in the world who has a relationship with Jesus.。
He's doing it for all these people at the same time.。
What an amazing thing it is.。
And when you stand in front of one of those giant works of art, for me, I'm always kind。
of in awe and I think, "Wow, whoever made this, like I said, I give glory to them for。
what they have done."。
And so when we look at God's work in redemption, we should stand back and say, "Wow, this is。
amazing.。
I can't even believe God is able to redeem all the mess in my heart, much less everybody。
else's heart, and then bring us together in all these different ways and then fix all。
of our mistakes even when we keep making them."。
And it brings glory to God because of what he's doing in redemption.。
So that's a great place to cultivate gratitude.。
Say, "I'm gonna grow gratitude in my life by thinking about what God's done for me,。
what he's doing in our world."。
And then the last big way I want us to think about cultivating gratitude is as we praise。
God for the majesty of who he is.。
You know, the first two, praising God and cultivating gratitude as we look at the wonders。
of his creation, as we look at the beauty of redemption, those things kind of have to。
do with God's work in our world.。
But here's the crazy thing.。
Scripture is really clear about this.。
God is worthy of praise even if he never did any of that, just because of who he is.。
And we can cultivate gratitude in that way as well, just because of who God is.。
Verse 3 here of Psalm 100 says, "Know that the Lord, he is God."。
Obviously there's other statements in that Psalm, but that statement is enough by itself.。
Know that the Lord, he is God.。
Even if there's nothing else, God is worthy of our praise because of who he is.。
Our gratitude belongs to him.。
Jehovah, the word in verse 3 there, the Hebrew word for God, means the self-existent one。
or the eternal one or the existing one.。
That's the picture that we have of God in Scripture.。
Completely apart from the wonder of creation and the beauty of redemption, God is still。
worthy of our praise.。
And so when we contemplate who he is and reflect on who he is, our hearts should be full of。
gratitude.。
Think about some of the attributes of God that Scripture revealed.。
God's power, which is unlimited.。
God's goodness.。
It always blows my mind when I think about how powerful God is and yet he is also good.。
If God was powerful and not good, he would be completely terrifying.。
God is not just powerful, he's also good and he loves us.。
His wisdom and knowledge, Romans 11.33 says, "Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and。
knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways."。
God's wisdom and knowledge is completely beyond our comprehension.。
God's holiness, his love for us, Psalms 100 talks about it, verse 5, "The Lord is good,。
his steadfast love endures forever."。
God's love for us, his grace, his mercy, God's justice, God's sovereignty, God's immutability.。
That just means the fact that God doesn't change.。
He's so right that he never needs to change because he's not wrong and he's not going。
to be wrong.。
He never changes because he doesn't need to change.。
The eternal nature of God, he's always existed, his omnipresence, he's in every place, his。
transcendence, his infinitude, which is crazy because when you think about the attributes。
of God and all the things that make up who God is, he's just, he's loving, he's all these。
things, you have to also remember that not only is he those things but he is those things。
in infinity and he is the very definition of those things.。
We only know love because God is love.。
We only know justice because God is justice.。
We only know mercy and grace because God is mercy and grace.。
God's perfection, not only is he those things in infinitude but he is also those things。
in perfection.。
He is perfectly loving.。
He is perfectly just.。
He is perfectly holy.。
He is perfectly good.。
When we think about that stuff, we should say, "Wow, I want to praise God for who he。
is.。
I want to be grateful for who he is."。
And God is all these things completely by himself.。
He self-exists and is completely self-sufficient.。
Back to this three, verses 13 and 14, this is when Moses and God are having this conversation.。
God's come to Moses, said, "Hey, I want you to go to the people and go to Egypt and lead。
the people out of Egypt and I'm going to give you what to say."。
Moses is not wanting to do it so he's talking back.。
"Then Moses said to God, 'If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, 'The God。
of your fathers has sent me to you,' and they asked me, 'What is his name?。
What shall I say to them?'"。
Verse 14, "God said to Moses, 'I am who I am.'。
And he said, 'Say this to the people of Israel, 'I am has sent you.'"。
Now, it's not quite as powerful in English as it is in Hebrew, but verse 14, God is really。
letting Moses know in no uncertain terms.。
He's saying, "You want to know what my name is?。
You want to know who I am?。
You want to know who to announce?。
Announce the eternal, existent one, the one who has always existed and always will exist。
and who needs no one else and is totally self-sufficient and is without any degree of diminishment。
or need."。
That's what God's saying to Moses in that verse.。
"I am the existent one.。
I'm the one who has always been, always will be.。
I need nothing.。
Everything else came from me."。
That's the God that we serve.。
That's the God of the Bible.。
And he's worthy of our praise and our thanksgiving and gratitude just because that's who he is.。
If you've ever been in a situation where you kind of experienced something that was really。
transcendent, gratitude was probably a part of that situation.。
I know in times of my life when I've experienced something transcendent, gratitude just comes。
from nowhere.。
One time when I was a youth pastor many years ago, I was in a service at a camp.。
The presence of the Lord was really present.。
We got done.。
We did worship at the end.。
It was time to go.。
I told everybody to be dismissed, to go back to the cabins because we were supposed to。
go to bed.。
And no one would leave the room because of God's presence.。
And so everybody stayed.。
So we started doing worship again and we just kept the service going and ended up being。
there much, much longer.。
And God was just working in powerful ways.。
Kids got saved that night, came to know Jesus.。
It was really a transcendent thing.。
It wasn't anything that I was doing or anybody else was doing.。
God was at work.。
And I was full of an overwhelming sense of gratitude just to be there, to be present.。
It's not a lot of transcendent experiences in my life.。
But another one that I can think of that's really powerful to me, every time one of our。
children has been born, I'm there with my wife and I see one of our children born, been。
there for all five of them.。
And I'm reflecting on just the promise and the potential of a human life and what it。
means that this new life is taking their first breath in the world.。
And I get to see it, get to see them take their first breath and then announce themselves。
with screaming and crying.。
And it's always like just a beautiful moment.。
And there's just emotion that I don't have to manufacture.。
It just is overwhelming.。
But there's also overwhelming gratitude.。
Because I'm so grateful for that moment, for that life, for what God is doing.。
And when we spend some time in God's presence and experience Him and start to see how transcendent。
He is, that's what happens.。
We don't have to try to make ourselves feel grateful.。
It just comes out.。
We're overwhelmed with gratitude for who God is.。
So I want to encourage us to seek to cultivate gratitude in our lives, to take our eyes as。
much as we can off of ourselves and put them on God and what He is doing.。
And there's a lot more ways that you can practice it, but I would encourage you, if you don't。
know where to start, start with these three things that we talked about today.。
Cultivate gratitude by praising God for the wonder of His creation.。
Cultivate gratitude by thanking God for the beauty of His redemption in your life.。
And cultivate gratitude just because God is.。
And He is so amazing and so transcendent.。
I'm going to close just by reading this psalm one more time and letting its words fill our。
hearts.。
"Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth.。
Serve the Lord with gladness.。
Come into His presence with singing.。
Know that the Lord, He is God.。
It is He who made us and we are His.。
We are His people and the sheep of His pasture.。
Enter His gates with thanksgiving and His courts with praise.。
Give thanks to Him.。
Bless His name for the Lord is good.。
His steadfast love endures forever and His faithfulness to all generations."。
Let's pray.。
God, we just want to thank You for who You are.。
We can't even describe it.。
We can't even express who You are, God.。
We are so small in Your presence and yet, as the word says, by Your mercy we're not。
consumed.。
You still love us.。
And You choose to come and be involved in our lives.。
And God, we thank You for redemption.。
That even though we were broken, fallen sinners living in a broken, fallen world, You wrapped。
Yourself in our flesh and You loved us enough to come into our world and to begin to heal。
us one heart at a time and to reconcile us with You and to bring us into right relationship。
with our Creator.。
God, we thank You for that.。
We thank You for this beautiful world that You have given us and allow us to live in.。
And God, I pray for myself and for all of us, especially over the next few weeks as。
we have this time of thanksgiving, that You would help us to cultivate gratitude to begin。
to see how good You are in our lives.。
And even in the most difficult moments, You are still at work.。
