Hey guys, thank you very much for being here。
and we'll continue our series on Apostles' Creed.。
And my quiz for you is what is the Apostles' Creed?。
What is it?。
It's an ancient document,。
has been around for almost 1800 years,。
and it's a summary of our faith.。
It's a map of the Christian faith.。
And if people ask you, what do you believe in,。
or sometimes you may be questioning,。
what do I really believe in, and what should I believe in,。
you go to a summary or a quick document。
like the Apostles' Creed,。
and then you'll find out the basics, the core,。
the must do, the must believe,。
the core beliefs of our faith.。
Yesterday, I was blessed to attend a wedding。
in the West Suburb.。
I've never been to that neighborhood,。
never been to that part of the Western Suburb,。
so I turned to Google Maps.。
So I put in the destination, I put in the place,。
and I wanna find out where that is.。
And of course, in our days and age,。
and it is very convenient.。
You just key in the address。
and then you'll find out how to get there.。
So it shows me about an hour driving,。
passing through different neighborhoods,。
those are the details, right?。
I don't really care.。
And Google Maps doesn't show me that.。
It really show me is how to take a turn。
and what road to take in order to get me there, right?。
That is the summary, that is the quick,。
you know, core knowledge that I need。
to get to my destination, right?。
So I didn't get lost, I came back one piece, right?。
So that is the good thing about summary。
and Apostles Creek is doing something like this.。
Now, as the pandemic fades away, hopefully,。
I know we're all getting tired of it,。
but it is kind of being sort of under control, right?。
Those who are infected with COVID suffer,。
it depends on depending on your condition,。
suffer quite a bit.。
Or some people suffer slightly.。
But as the pandemic fades away,。
some of the people in this church are asking me,。
when are you going to Israel, right?。
When you're leading a group to Israel.。
And then I talk to some people, I talk to some of you,。
and say, yeah, I think it's doable, right?。
If you get enough people, we can go next week, you know?。
The border is open and it's very convenient.。
If you have a US passport, it's really convenient.。
I still remember talking to people。
about leading a group to Israel.。
I've been to Israel for more than 10 years,。
almost 20 times.。
I still remember in the early days, 2008, 2009,。
when we go to Israel, it was not that convenient.。
I still had that atlas.。
Do you know what atlas is?。
Atlas of maps, right?。
No?。
Is that yeah?。
Atlas, you know, to print maps.。
It's like a book, okay?。
It's like a book.。
So it's different kinds of maps.。
And then, of course, you have the big map, right?。
So when you travel, when you're driving,。
especially in places that you are not familiar,。
you need those maps, right?。
And then you have to plan ahead of time。
in order to know where to turn and what road to take。
and how to get to your destination.。
But now, of course, it's a totally different ballgame, right?。
You go to the airport, you rent a SIM card,。
and then you plug into your smartphone。
and everything is there, right?。
You key in your address and you will get there.。
So it helps you with your navigation.。
Apostle's Creek is also a tool of navigation.。
Sometimes you may wonder,。
I know many of you, or maybe most of you,。
have not really read the whole Bible,。
cover to cover, right?。
Now, when people ask you, what do you believe in,。
sometimes you may wonder, you have a question mark,。
hey, what do I really believe in?。
What is the heart of the gospel?。
What is the heart of the Bible,。
of the heart of Christianity?。
And it is the Apostle's Creek.。
So last week, we were working through Psalm 19,。
the first part of Psalm 19.。
Now we come to the second part of Psalm 19.。
I told you the flow of Psalm 19 is very easy。
and it's very meaningful.。
The first part is the words of creation.。
The creation is singing and expressing their praises。
and worship to the creator.。
That is what we call general revelation.。
Everyone who walk in this world,。
every single square inch of this universe。
is the property of God, has a signature in it, right?。
Whether you look at the world in details,。
the micro perspective, or you look at the whole。
entire universe, the galaxies and all that stuff,。
the macro perspective.。
Every square inch of this creation marks the property。
of the creator, God himself.。
So the first six verses talking about general revelation,。
the universal revelation, everyone should know that.。
Everyone should be able to listen to the music。
of the creation, singing about the creator。
behind all of this, the intelligent designer。
of the entire universe.。
And then the second part is words from the creator.。
And that is what we call the special revelation.。
God is not just a distant creator.。
He created the world, boom, and it's there,。
and have his own mechanism and laws and principles,。
and then the universe run on itself.。
No, the Bible presents to us the God who is super involved。
in every single thing since the first creation。
until now, his hand is there,。
even though it's invisible to our own eyes,。
but God is always involved in the creation.。
So we come to verses seven to 10, seven to 10.。
Okay, let's read that.。
The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul.。
The statue of the Lord are trustworthy,。
making wise the simple.。
The precepts of the Lord are right,。
giving joy to the heart.。
The commands of the Lord are radiant,。
giving light to the eyes.。
The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring forever.。
The ordinances of the Lord are sure。
and altogether righteous.。
They are more precious than gold,。
much, than much pure gold.。
They are sweeter than honey, than honey from the comb.。
Now you can find three pairs of terms。
that describe the word of God.。
Can you find them?。
Three pairs, so a total of six terms.。
Six different technical terms from the Old Testament。
describing the word of God.。
Can you find them?。
The first one being the law, right?。
Law.。
Now behind this English translation, law, L-A-W,。
is the Hebrew word Torah, Torah.。
Torah means more than, so much than the law, right?。
When we think of law today,。
well 55 miles per hour speed limit, right?。
Don't park there and all that stuff, right?。
You park there, your car get towed.。
Those are the connotation that we have today。
when we hear the word law.。
However, Torah means so much more than that.。
Torah means instructions, direction.。
You know, like your Google map,。
like a compass, compass on the map.。
You know, showing you the instructions。
to teach us to go the right way.。
The second term is testimony, right?。
Or a statue, right?。
Testimony, some of the English translation will do that.。
Statue or testimony.。
And the meaning of the word is reminder.。
Are you forgetful?。
You are, right?。
I am very forgetful.。
I'm very, very forgetful.。
You know, my family members can testify to that, right?。
I'm very forgetful because I'm so focused, you know?。
I'm so focused.。
I'm so focused on a few things, right?。
And then sometimes I need to forget other things, right?。
But testimony or statue is reminder.。
Some sort of reminder in our daily life。
to bring us back to the relationship with God, right?。
Number three is precepts, precepts.。
Now, all these six terms are pretty synonymous.。
They could point to the same thing,。
but their connotation, their meaning。
is a little bit, you know, distinguishable.。
You can just, by meditating upon different words,。
and you see how the word of God。
can be at work in your lives.。
So number three is precepts.。
Precept has the meaning of leading and overseeing.。
Overseeing.。
Are you a supervisor in your workplace?。
Or you work under a supervisor, right?。
Usually they suck, but.。
Usually, right?。
Usually they suck.。
But, you know, the word of God is the precept.。
It's to give us the leadership or give us the guidance,。
especially we get lost or confused.。
You go back to the word of God,。
he will give you the precepts.。
Number four is commands, right?。
Or commandments.。
Command is authoritative and clear.。
And this, especially so, I remind you many times,。
the Bible is not written to us.。
It's written to the ancient people in the Near East.。
What they used to believe in are those false gods, right?。
Babylonian gods and Assyrian gods, Egyptian gods,。
many gods, but none of them,。
none of them is clear about what they want.。
Sometimes they are like us, right?。
Because in the ancient Near East,。
in the pagan environment where ancient Israel was located,。
in their environment,。
the pagan gods are just like people.。
Because the gods, the false gods,。
are made in the image of men.。
All right?。
So you remember Genesis one.。
We are made in the image of God, right?。
But in the pagan environment,。
the gods are imagined by people, right?。
That's why they are like people.。
So they are unpredictable.。
So commandment has the meaning of God being clear。
about his moral view.。
His moral view is to help you live in holiness,。
righteousness, justice.。
Everything is spelled out in the Bible, right?。
Everything is spelled out in this word.。
God doesn't play hide and seek with us.。
So sometimes when we say,。
oh, what is the will of God in my life?。
Sometimes we got the question wrong.。
Of course, the will of God is clear.。
He wants you and me to live in his image,。
to live holy, right?。
To be righteous, right?。
Your relationship has to be holy.。
Your work ethics has to be holy.。
Somehow you can display the wisdom of God, right?。
The image of God.。
So commandment is number four.。
Number five is fear, right?。
The fear of the Lord.。
Now, if you're familiar with the wisdom literature。
in the Bible, which is right in the center,。
some Psalms and the book of Proverbs,。
Ecclesiastes, the book of Job,。
all of this are called wisdom literature.。
They often have a phrase, the fear of the Lord,。
the fear of the Lord.。
It means you have the right relationship。
with this holy God, right?。
Right relationship with him.。
Then you are living according to his will.。
The fear of the Lord, meaning wisdom.。
You will live in your practical situation having insights.。
And where that insight comes from?。
It's come from the Bible, the will of God.。
Number six is judgment.。
Now that has to do with God's judicial discernment.。
If you read the first five book of Moses,。
sometimes the five books of the law, right?。
You find some case laws.。
If this happen, then what is the judgment?。
If this happens, what should be the decision?。
And all those stuff.。
Judgment has a sense of God's wise discernment。
of different situations.。
So God's general will is always clear.。
To have the people of Israel in the Old Testament。
and the New Testament church like us。
to be walking in his way.。
And then this Psalm talks about the benefits,。
the effects of the will of God.。
Reviving the soul, making wise the symbol,。
giving you joy, giving you fulfillment,。
enduring forever, altogether righteous.。
So the Psalm is encouraging you to go into the will of God,。
to go into scripture, to find that treasure.。
It takes some work.。
It doesn't come to you automatically.。
You need to be trained, you need to learn, right?。
This is what every disciple needs to learn, right?。
From the first day you believe in Christ,。
from the first day you acknowledge,。
I come to believe and faith in Jesus Christ.。
I need to learn how to interpret,。
how to understand and apply the will of God, right?。
So that is what Psalm 19 trying to encourage us to do.。
And that's why one of the core in the Apostles' Creek,。
I wonder if you can notice that.。
If you read through the Apostles' Creek,。
it gives you the very core of our belief.。
There are many things that can get you distracted,。
but these are the things that you always return back to.。
These are the things that you build your foundation upon.。
These are the most important things.。
That is what the Apostles' Creek is all about.。
I wonder if you read this, how many statements are there?。
12 statements, okay?。
12 statements.。
Do you notice what stand out to you?。
Now, let me tell you,。
what is not being said in Apostles' Creek。
is how Christians behave.。
You don't find this statement,。
I believe in the good Christians.。
I believe in how good the church is.。
You don't find this statement in our Apostles' Creek, right?。
There's not a single mention of the Christian testimony。
or the examples Christians have.。
You don't build your faith upon people.。
You don't.。
I understand in recent years,。
churches, leaders, rise and fall.。
I understand that.。
Pastors, Christian leaders, they fail.。
And sometimes it shatters our faith, right?。
Because so often, we build our faith。
on broken people just like us, right?。
We do.。
There's a temptation to idolize institution,。
idolize the big institution, the big names, right?。
Here, the Apostles' Creek makes no mention。
how good the Christian behave, right?。
And what is being emphasized is what Jesus has done for us.。
Out of this 12 statements, there are five statements。
on Jesus himself, on Christ alone.。
In fact, most of the statements,。
if you take it by proportion, are about Jesus.。
It really centers on the historicity of Jesus Christ,。
that he did something in human history,。
that Christ did something in our lives.。
Five out of 12 statements are on Jesus himself,。
the historical Jesus.。
He came to die on the cross.。
He came to rise from the dead.。
He came to accomplish our salvation.。
He is our focus and he is our only foundation.。
You see what I'm saying?。
You don't believe in the person of a Christian leader.。
You don't believe in any institution,。
any institution you can see today,。
or any institution or organization, churches,。
parachurch organizations that have come to pass.。
You don't believe in that.。
They all rise and be gone.。
What is eternal?。
What is most important is Jesus Christ himself.。
God speaks and he reveals himself.。
The Old and the New Testament are the historical record。
of what God has done in human history.。
And God is still active, doing his things.。
Maybe mysteriously, our eyes may not be able to pick it up.。
But God is and God will be.。
The focus is always on God himself.。
So let me remind you, if anyone or anything。
that has disappointed you in your Christian walk,。
seriously, who cares?。
What's most important is Jesus Christ and his cross。
and his empty tomb.。
Psalm 19 is telling us God is revealing himself。
in his word and the word ultimately。
is Jesus Christ himself, right?。
The word of God, ultimately, the revelation of God。
is his son, Jesus Christ.。
That's why the creek is on Jesus, centered on Jesus.。
So Psalm 19 is encouraging you,。
hey, put your faith in God and his word alone.。
It ends with a prayer.。
And I hope this is your prayer today.。
This is your response.。
The psalmist says, by them, the word of God,。
the revelation of God, right, ultimately is Jesus Christ.。
Is your servant wanted?。
In keeping your word, there is great reward.。
Who can discern his errors?。
Forgive my hidden sins, my hidden faults.。
Keep your servant also from willful sins.。
May they not rule over me.。
That's interesting.。
Then will I be blameless, innocent of great transgression.。
May the word of my mouth and the meditation of my heart。
be pleasing in your sight.。
Oh Lord, my rock and my redeemer.。
You can pick up the attitude of the psalmist。
as he ends the psalm.。
He realized his brokenness as well, right?。
He's tempted, a prone to great transgressions.。
Just like us, right?。
Look deeply into your inner life, right?。
We are all ultimately broken.。
We are all depraved.。
We are all sinners.。
I think about 400 years ago, there was a church reformer,。
what we call reformer.。
His name is Martin Luther.。
And he has something to say, really meaningful.。
He said, ask question.。
Because we're fully justified by the blood of Christ,。
by the cross, so we're 100% same.。
Because of the grace of God, I'm 100% same.。
Yet, I'm also 100% sinner.。
Even you come to saving faith in Jesus Christ,。
you are not from 100% sinner become 75% sinner, right?。
Doesn't take this account in our sinfulness.。
We're still 100% sinner.。
And yet, we are fully justified in Christ.。
The psalmist, how many times he described himself as servant?。
Servant.。
Two times.。
Two times in this short prayer,。
praying as a servant to the Lord, right?。
Center on the authority, right, of God.。
Not himself, humble himself before God.。
He realizes fallenness, he also realized he needed。
the instructions, the word of God.。
Now, in a sense, whenever we think of the word of God,。
whenever we think of God, we should not stand,。
and we must not stand above the word.。
We don't stand alongside with the word either.。
We stand under the word.。
When we get together to do Bible study,。
when you read the word, when you think and meditate。
on the word, you stand under, and always under,。
under scripture.。
You come before the word of God as a servant,。
ready to obey, ready to listen, ready to even wrestle。
with the meaning of what the word means for us today,。
always being teachable, always being teachable.。
Now, that does not mean we don't need to think.。
That does not mean we don't need to use our brain.。
We need to, right?。
Sometimes we have to read the word critically,。
not in the sense that we're against it.。
Critically means we're thinking it through, you know?。
We're using our intellect, God's gift to us, right,。
to reason, to struggle, to wrestle with the word, right?。
However, the ultimate position that we take。
in front of the Bible is to stand under the word of God,。
to be teachable, ready to obey.。
Let's all pray together.。
I pray that we'll come to God as servants.。
Dear God, you are the king.。
You are the leader.。
You are the Lord of all.。
And we stand under you.。
We sit under you.。
And we position ourselves as your servants.。
And we pray that as we meditate on your word,。
as we try to understand the contemporary relevance,。
how it applies to our lives today,。
we'll always stand under your authority.。
And we praise you because you speak to us.。
No mortal can speak about you。
because we are creatures.。
We are humble.。
We are actually nothing.。
Our existence depends on you.。
So we realize that we cannot speak about you.。
It's just because of your grace, you speak to us.。
You speak to us.。
You introduce yourself to us.。
And thank you for your revelation.。
Thank you for your word.。
From the time of ancient to our time modern,。
you are still speaking.。
And as you speak,。
we pray that you will speak in our lives as king,。
as the ultimate creator.。
And I pray that you will grant each and every one of us。
heart and spirit of obedience,。
the spirit of being your servant,。
ready to obey, ready to be taught.。
We pray that you will grow our church in your word,。
that we'll worship you, we'll follow and obey your will.。
And pray that in the rest of the week,。
you will send us into different situations,。
different positions, different ministries to serve you,。
to bring the impact of your gospel into our community.。
In Christ, we pray.。
