- All right, we are in the season of Advent。
and actually to next Sunday,。
we're gonna celebrate Christmas Sunday together.。
So I think we should turn our attention to passages。
related to the birth of our Savior, our Lord Jesus Christ.。
So today we're gonna turn to the Gospel of Luke 1.。
And this opening chapters of the Gospel of Luke。
is to help us to pay attention to stories and records。
or histories related to the birth of our Savior.。
As you can see in this summary of Luke 1 and 2,。
the opening chapters of Gospel of Luke,。
you see pairs and pairs of stories。
that Luke is trying to tell us。
to prepare for the birth of our Savior.。
As you can see, 1.5-25 is the annunciation,。
that means the good news of giving birth of someone,。
annunciation of John the Baptist, the pioneer of Messiah.。
And then it is paired with the annunciation story of Jesus,。
our Savior, 1.26-38.。
And then there is a story in between 39-56,。
two mothers meeting together, Mary and Elizabeth.。
Elizabeth is the mother of John the Baptist。
and Mary is of course the earthly mother of Jesus, our Lord.。
And then there will be a birth stories of John the Baptist。
on the left, 1.57-80,。
and then birth story of Jesus, our Lord, 2.1-21.。
And then there are a couple of stories again。
to end this opening two chapters.。
Jesus in the temple when he was a baby。
being presented to the temple.。
And there were two individuals, Simon, Simeon,。
and Anna greeting and blessing the baby, Jesus.。
And then there will be an other,。
the other half of the pair of the story is Jesus。
finally going into the temple, his father's house,。
to debate with the teachers, chapter two,。
at the end of chapter two.。
Now Advent happens once a year,。
Christmas is only once a year.。
And I think when we read stories about Christmas。
in the Bible, Gospel of Luke particularly,。
we need to recover the sense of wonder,。
the sense of awe and wonder.。
Anybody seen a baby born in the delivery room?。
Life, I mean.。
No?。
Yeah, right?。
That's the sense of wonder.。
You don't have to be there to sense that.。
You just think about it。
and you will get that wonder, that sense of,。
it's like magic, right?。
The power of life, right?。
Giving birth to a new baby.。
And I believe that we need to recover。
that wonder of Christmas, the baby in the manger.。
As you can see, pairs of story gives you a sense of symmetry。
telling you the story of the birth of our savior。
under the sovereign orchestration of God.。
And everything's under God's control.。
Everything is under God's power。
in the birth story of Jesus.。
And Jesus came at the right time, in the right place,。
in the right spot.。
So we read the story in chapter one, 126.。
In the sixth month, God sent the angel Gabriel。
to Nazareth, a town in Galilee,。
to a virgin pledged to be married。
to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David.。
The virgin's name was Mary.。
The angel went to her and said,。
"Greetings, you who are highly favored.。
The Lord is with you."。
Mary was greatly troubled at his words。
and wondered what kind of greeting this might be.。
Now in the sixth month,。
that is six months after the annunciation of Gabriel。
to Elizabeth about the birth of John the Baptist,。
the pioneer.。
So Elizabeth was pregnant with John the Baptist,。
and six months later, Gabriel showed up to Mary.。
Now at this time, Mary is pledged to be married to Joseph,。
a probably a young man.。
And of course, Mary was very young as well.。
And Joseph was a descendant of David.。
And Mary at this point probably is 12 to 13 year old,。
14 year old.。
Yeah, back in the days, you know,。
people lived differently, right?。
Back then people get married very, very early on。
and they build a family。
because most of the people died young.。
So from different passages of the Bible,。
we know Joseph and Mary, this couple,。
come from a poor Jewish families.。
Like every typical young Jewish couple,。
everything seems to have been arranged.。
When you hit 13 year old, 14 year old,。
when you were a teenager, Joseph and Mary,。
they were expected to follow some sort of pattern,。
to build their own small family,。
get married, build a small family, and that's it, right?。
That's your life goal.。
You enter that stage,。
you automatically will do something。
as expected by the society.。
So Joseph and Mary, I would say,。
were expecting just to get married。
and build their own small family。
and have their own child and have their own children。
and then live in Israel。
to grow their own family,。
to join the extended family to celebrate,。
and that is expected for them.。
But comes the divine interruption to their life's plan,。
and that interruption is a big interruption.。
The angel Gabriel continues, 1 Dirty.。
The angel Gabriel said to Mary,。
"Do not be afraid, Mary.。
"You have found favor with God.。
"You will be with child and give birth to a son,。
"and you are to give him the name Jesus.。
"He will be great and will be called the Son of Most High.。
"The Lord God will give him the throne of his father, David,。
"and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever.。
"His kingdom will never end."。
What an interesting and astonishing news, right?。
You will be pregnant and the child will be what?。
A king, and his kingdom will be forever, right?。
It's astonishing to just think about it, right?。
When my wife was pregnant with the first child,。
nobody said these words to me.。
They probably would say to me,。
"Okay, you better get ready, sleep more,。
"because you will be deprived of sleep,。
"and you better save up some money。
"because you will be in debt," right?。
But here, for the announcement for the child,。
he will be great and will be called the Son of Most High,。
and he will be king, and his kingdom will last forever,。
and there is no end for his reign.。
It's astonishing.。
134, "How will this be?"。
Mary asked the angel, "Since I am a virgin."。
The angel answered, "The Holy Spirit will come upon you.。
"The power of the Most High will overshadow you,。
"so the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God.。
"Even Elizabeth, your relative,。
"the mother of John the Baptist,。
"is going to have a child in her old age.。
"She who was said to be barren is in her sixth month,。
"for nothing is impossible with God."。
Now, one can imagine the shock。
and the astonishing news, right?。
Gabriel announces God's plan,。
actually it's God's interruption,。
major interruption in Mary's life and in Joseph's life.。
It's a major detour, major interruption。
for her original plan.。
Remember what I said in the social custom。
of Mary's and Joseph's day?。
They were expected to just get married。
and have their own family, and they just move on.。
But one can imagine many whys in Mary's head.。
Perhaps Mary would ask, "Why me?"。
Because there are so many Marys on the street, right?。
According to some statistics,。
more than 50% of girls, Jewish girls, were named Mary.。
There are tons of Mary out there.。
Why me, right?。
And perhaps there are many young couples。
engaged in Israel at that point, right?。
They are not the only one engaged.。
Many other are pledged to get married at that point.。
And perhaps I think the most perplexing question is 34.。
Verse 34, "How will this be?"。
The young girl Mary asked the angel Gabriel,。
"Since I am a virgin," right?。
That is difficult to swallow, right?。
A virgin birth.。
As for Joseph, I think it will be difficult。
to explain as well.。
As you know the story from the Gospel of Matthew,。
Joseph wanted to divorce Mary secretly。
in order to protect her, not to shame her.。
But because of divine intervention,。
Joseph obeyed and took Mary as his wife.。
In any case, it was a major, major just interruption。
in their life, right?。
When God moves so often, He moves with interruptions.。
Is that interesting?。
Is that interesting?。
When God moves in your life,。
sometimes He does so with detour.。
Something that is not expected.。
Something that you never thought of.。
So how did Mary respond to the angel?。
Verse 38, "I am the Lord's servant," Mary answered,。
"May it be to me as you have said."。
Then the angel left her.。
Now if you come from a Roman Catholic background,。
you probably heard of the phrase Mary's fiat.。
Mary's fiat.。
Anyone from the Catholic background?。
Maybe you went to a Catholic school。
or maybe you come from a Catholic,。
Roman Catholic family.。
If you have that background,。
you probably have heard the phrase, the fiat of Mary.。
It tried to capture Mary's reply to the angel.。
If you don't have Catholic background,。
you might have heard the word fiat as well, right?。
Fiat is Italian auto brand, all right?。
So when I prepare this sermon,。
I shop around for fiat as well.。
That is fiat.。
Of course, when we talk about Mary's fiat,。
we don't mean Mary had a Italian car, right?。
And by the way, before I bought a Mini Cooper,。
I was debating to get a fiat, but I didn't.。
I got a Mini Cooper.。
Anyways, Mary's fiat.。
We don't mean Mary had a car.。
The word fiat comes from the Latin translation of the Bible。
some 400 years after Christ.。
So it's somewhere around the fourth century after Christ.。
Some Bible translator translate the Bible。
into the common language of the day.。
And the common language, common,。
is the Latin word voce.。
Voce, voce means common language.。
Back then, a lot of people were using Latin。
as their common language.。
The Bible has to be translated into Latin.。
And that translation is very famous,。
very popular at that time, called voce.。
And in the voce translation, the words of Mary,。
the first word, may it be, is translated in Latin, fiat.。
So you got it, right?。
Fiat is Italian word.。
It means let it be, let there be.。
You remember Genesis 1?。
When God set up the cosmos, when God set up the universe,。
what was the first word spoken by God?。
What was the first word?。
Let there be, right?。
Let there be light.。
And in voce, in the Latin translation, is fiat, looks.。
Fiat, let there be, let it be.。
Looks, light.。
Fiat, looks.。
Let there be.。
So when Mary says, fiat, let it be,。
it means let your will be done.。
Well, I don't understand.。
I cannot comprehend everything.。
But let it be, fiat, is a word of faith.。
Now at this point, I'm sure Mary doesn't even know。
how the birth of Savior can be accomplished。
since she was a virgin.。
And what will be the son's destiny?。
What will happen to my son, to this special son?。
What will be her future?。
Nothing is in the answer.。
There were tons of uncertainties, unknowns at this point.。
For this high school girl, right?。
13, 14 year old Mary, God bless her.。
And that is so special about Mary.。
Now, of course, if you come from a Roman Catholic background。
you will find doctrines that would amplify,。
that would amplify Mary's status.。
If you come from a Roman Catholic background,。
they would describe Mary in highly exalted term,。
like co-redemptrix, co-redemptrix.。
So Mary, because of her obedience,。
made salvation possible.。
So God, of course, is the first cause,。
but not without Mary's obedience.。
So in Roman Catholic theological term,。
it is highly exalted because Mary's obedience。
then make the redemption possible.。
So she is called co-redemptrix.。
And sometimes called mediatrix, mediatrix,。
the mediator or female mediator between God and humanity.。
Or because Mary's high status, exalted status,。
she has, she's being described as perpetually virgin,。
perpetual virginity, or immaculate conception.。
It means when she was born, when Mary was born,。
she was born without original sin.。
She was not born like us in the sinful condition.。
Now this sort of theological imagination。
found no biblical data, no biblical support.。
As you can see, Luke 1:46, in one of the Psalms。
that Mary sang to the Lord after receiving the annunciation,。
Mary said, "My soul glorifies the Lord,。
"and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior."。
Does Mary need a Savior?。
Yes, she does, right?。
1:46, Gospel of Luke, and 1 Timothy 2.5.。
It says point blank, there's one God,。
and how many mediator between God and man?。
One, right?。
One mediator between God and man, the man, Jesus Christ.。
So it is clear there's no biblical warrant。
to describe Mary in such a high status.。
But we still need to wonder,。
we still need to wonder how a teenage girl,。
how a teenage Jewish girl could have such a great faith.。
Right?。
You go to a high school fellowship,。
you pick one of those girls, you ask them,。
"Do you believe in Jesus Christ?。
"Do you believe in God?"。
They probably will say, "I come to church because it's fun."。
Mary is being set apart here.。
But I wanna make sure that you understand。
this is not blind faith.。
'Cause so often we morning people would see faith。
as some sort of blind, irrational belief,。
or wishful thinking.。
You know, in the Bible, faith is not like that.。
In the Bible, faith is based on something solid,。
and that is the character of God, the faithfulness of God.。
And God has revealed Himself in the history。
and in Scripture that He is faithful.。
So that kind of faith is not blind faith,。
it's reasonable faith.。
It's great faith indeed, but it's reasonable.。
So no matter what, God will work things out。
for His own glory.。
Even though we don't know or we cannot comprehend.。
And as for Mary, it's the same thing.。
I just don't know how it would be accomplished.。
I just don't know how it will unfold, right?。
We are at the end of the story,。
we saw the end of story because Jesus died on the cross。
and on the third day He rose from the dead, right?。
But for Mary at this point,。
she had to wait for another 30 some years。
in order to see the full plan of God revealed, right?。
But at this point, she is the first hero of faith。
in the New Testament.。
Let it be, fear it.。
And after this, Mary rushes to see her relative, Elizabeth.。
And we see here this exchange between two mothers.。
We see why Mary was so special.。
Luke 1:39, "At that time, Mary got ready。
and hurried to the town in the hill country of Judea,。
where she entered Zechariah's home and greeted Elizabeth.。
When Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting,。
the baby lived in her womb。
and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit."。
1:42, "In a loud voice, she exclaimed,。
'Blessed are you among women。
and blessed is the child you will bear.。
But why am I so favored。
that the mother of my Lord should come to me?。
As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears,。
the baby in my womb lived for joy.。
Blessed is she who has believed。
that what the Lord has said to her will be accomplished.'"。
You notice where's John the Baptist here?。
It's in the womb of Elizabeth, right?。
Still in the womb, six months.。
And this baby in the womb is already hearing。
the coming of the Savior by greeting the mother of Jesus.。
It's jumping inside the womb.。
But how does the Bible,。
how does the scripture describe Mary here?。
1:45, "Blessed is she who believe."。
You see here, it's not Mary is essentially different from us.。
It's not because she is holier.。
It's not because she is set apart from us, essentially.。
She is the same human being just as we are.。
It is not Mary is essentially different from us.。
It is she who believe.。
It is her faith, her faith in God,。
in God's plan, in God's bigger plan.。
Even her own plan is being disturbed,。
her own plan being interrupted or detoured.。
But she puts her faith in God,。
knowing that the plan of God will not fail.。
Many years ago, there's a British Bible translator。
or British Bible scholar named J.B. Phillips.。
J.B. Phillips translated the New Testament。
into contemporary English at that time.。
And he wrote some other books.。
And one of the little books that we should all read,。
we should all read.。
It's a very little, tiny book.。
And sometimes you pick up a book,。
you have to read cover to cover。
in order to find out the content, right?。
But for some books, if you pick it up,。
you read the title of the book,。
you immediately know what the book is all about.。
You don't have to read.。
You ever encounter any books like that?。
You pick it up, read the title or subtitle,。
you know what the book is all about.。
You don't have to read it.。
You don't have to buy it.。
Some books are like that.。
And J.B. Phillips wrote such a book.。
And the book title is "Your God is Too Small."。
Your God is too small.。
It's a tiny little book.。
It would be beneficial for you to pick it up and read it,。
you know, to edify your faith, to build your faith.。
But as I said, you pick up this book,。
very thin, it's like a booklet.。
And you immediately know what the message is all about.。
Your God is too small.。
Do we all have the same struggle?。
We do.。
We struggle with the fact that our God is too small.。
It's way too small。
because we create our God in our own image, right?。
Instead of the other way around,。
when things don't seem the way we expected,。
when we face uncertainties,。
when things seem to be in chaos,。
we reduce God into a little idol.。
God is too small.。
And sometimes our prayer can be too small.。
What have you been praying for?。
What have you been praying for this month?。
Probably some needs or some list of things that you want,。
right?。
And the message seems to challenge all of us。
that sometimes our prayer can be too small。
because our God is too small.。
And sometimes our own plan may also be too small.。
And we seldom think of the plan of God,。
which is much, much, much bigger.。
It takes miracles to see the plan of God.。
It takes God himself to accomplish。
something that is worthy of his name.。
Sometimes it takes God's power and our obedience,。
our fear in order to see the big plan of God.。
Now, the faith of Mary is fear.。
Let there be.。
Yes, I don't understand.。
I don't see all the details.。
I don't see the details as yet, but let it be, fear it.。
I don't need all the details worked out before I say so.。
May this be our prayer, our attitude and our faith.。
Let's pray together.。
Father, thank you for being our God.。
Thank you for being our big, big God,。
much bigger than we think,。
much bigger than our mind and our plan and our thinking.。
You are indeed worthy of our worship.。
So we come before you in humility,。
knowing that you are the one who makes all things new.。
You are the one who control and orchestrate everything。
from the greatest to the least.。
All things are in your hand.。
So we commit our life into your hand.。
And I pray that you'll help us to say fear it,。
to say let it be.。
In our life journey, we wanna see your glory.。
In our faith, we wanna see your power.。
So grant us this obedient, obedient attitude,。
the faith that we're gonna see that you are faithful.。
And the plan that you accomplish is much bigger,。
bigger than our own plan.。
Father, once again, use us, use our faith,。
increase our faith and help us to be loyal and faithful。
to follow you, to serve you, to continue to worship you。
so that we will see your glory more and more。
as we experience your power.。
In this Advent season, come to us。
and we open our hearts to welcome you,。
our Lord Jesus, who come as a baby in the manger。
to bless us, to redeem us and to save us。
so that we can be your sons and daughters.。
Thank you and we worship you in Christ and pray.。
Well, God bless you and see you next Sunday.。
And remember next Sunday is gonna be 5 p.m., right?。
5 p.m., yeah, don't come in the early morning, okay?。
There's no breakfast for you.。
Get your ticket and join our Christmas baptism Sunday.。
All right, God bless.。
