worship team for leading us. Really enjoyed worshipping with you all. This。
morning we're gonna be looking in the book of John chapter 15, a pretty。
familiar passage, and talking about fruit in our lives, spiritual fruit and fruit。
that lasts. This thing that Jesus introduces to us in this passage. This is。
something that all of us want and desire in our lives. We want to see spiritual。
fruit. We want to see fruit coming out of our lives and when I when I use that。
term fruit I mean the the evidences in our own selves that we're growing in。
Christ, we're becoming more like Jesus, that God is changing us and transforming。
us, but also the evidences in the lives of others when people that we are in。
contact with, people that we have relationship with, we want to see them。
coming to know Christ more or growing in Christ. So all of us desire fruit and we。
want fruit that lasts. There are a lot of examples of that and what I'm gonna。
start with this morning just to give us a neat example of fruit that lasts is in。
East Africa. The countries in East Africa there's about 267 million people in。
those countries and of those 267 million over a hundred and eighty eight million。
are professing Christians. That's over 70% of the population. In countries like。
Zambia, Uganda, and Kenya over 80% of the population identifies as Christian. In。
Rwanda it's over 90% of the population. By 2050 the ten countries with the。
largest Christian populations will include several African states including。
Ethiopia, Nigeria, Congo, and Uganda. So there's been this amazing growth of the。
church in that part of the world and global Christianity has begun to and。
will continue to be shaped by renewal and leadership from from that part of。
the world. But where does that come from? The roots of this renewal go back to a。
revival that took place in the 1930s and this was a powerful movement of God that。
began with a small group of believers who simply had a desire to walk closer。
with God and obey Jesus in every area of life. One of these believers was a man。
named Simeon Sibambi in Uganda. Simeon made a vow to the Lord, "I've committed。
myself to God the Father as from today I desire to be genuinely holy and never。
intentionally do anything unguided by Jesus." His ardent devotion to Jesus and。
his zeal for making disciples began to inspire others and his life was a main。
catalyst of the East African revival. Although he probably never foresaw the。
way that God would use his obedience or the impact his life would have on his。
nation and eventually the globe, God powerfully used him to bring about fruit。
and fruit that remains to this day, fruit that has lasted, fruit that will echo。
into the future. And that's a desire that all of us have, not necessarily that we。
will impact the world in the way that this man's life did, but all of us want。
to see fruit in our own lives and fruit that will last in our life and beyond。
our life into the lives of others and beyond the time that we're on earth。
hopefully. Hopefully things that God does in our lives will be things that will。
echo into someone else's life long after we are no longer here in the lives of。
children or in the that may come someday or in the lives of friends who impact。
someone else and they impact someone else. We want to see that. That's what。
Jesus is talking to us about in John chapter 15. So I'm gonna read this。
passage and then we're gonna look at some of the things that Jesus has to say。
to us. This is John 15. I'm gonna read the first 17 verses. "I am the true vine and。
my father is the vinedresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he。
takes away and every branch that does bear fruit he prunes that it may bear。
more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you.。
Abide in me and I in you as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it。
abides in the vine. Neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine.。
You are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much。
fruit for apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me。
he is thrown away like a branch and withers and the branches are gathered。
thrown into the fire and burned. If you abide in me and my words abide in you,。
ask whatever you wish and it will be done for you. By this my father is。
glorified that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. As the。
father has loved me so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my。
commandments you will abide in my love just as I have kept my father's。
commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you that my joy。
may be in you and that your joy may be full. This is my commandment that you。
love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this that。
someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do。
what I command you. No longer do I call you servants for the servant does not。
know what his master is doing but I have called you friends for all that I have。
heard from my father I have made known to you. You did not choose me but I。
chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your。
fruit should abide so that whatever you ask the father in my name he may give it。
to you. These things I command you so that you will love one another. As we。
think about this passage I just want to remind us of what's going on here at the。
context of this teaching that Jesus gives. This is after the upper room, after。
the the last Passover that Jesus shares with the disciples. So this is right in。
the last few days of Jesus's life, in the last hours of Jesus's life really. And so。
he is teaching some of the most significant things that he's going to。
teach the disciples. And he begins to describe what life is like to follow him。
in these chapters in the book of John. Now surely the disciples heads are。
already kind of spinning. They've seen so much that was hard for them to take in,。
so much that they're still trying to understand. In John 13 Jesus washes their。
feet. They have the Last Supper together. He warns them about the betrayal. Then。
Judas leaves and Jesus gives them the new commandment of love. In John 14 is。
where he talks about how he is the way, the truth, and the life. That there's no。
way to God, to heaven, to enlightenment, to relationship with God except through。
Christ. And then in John 14 as well he gives the promise of the Holy Spirit. And。
now he gives them this really beautiful word picture of life in Christ and what。
it looks like. It's profoundly significant and full of truth for the。
disciples and for us. And so Jesus recalls, this is actually an Old。
Testament metaphor of the vine. The Old Testament talks in multiple places about。
the people of God, Israel, being this fruitful vine. It's in Psalm 80 verse 8。
in Isaiah chapter 5 and Jeremiah 2. It talks about the people of God being this。
vine that bear fruit to glorify God. And Jesus is now saying to the disciples, "Hey。
you know this story. You're familiar with this metaphor. I'm actually the vine. I'm。
the one who is going to produce fruit and I'm gonna do it through you, through。
your lives. As you abide in me, I want to produce salvation, blessing, joy, peace. I。
want this fruit to come out of your lives." And that's what Jesus is speaking。
to them and speaking to us. The first thing I want us to see here is that if。
we want to experience fruitfulness and fruit that lasts as followers of Jesus,。
the only way to see that is to remain in Jesus. This word for abide is in this。
passage. Jesus says it over and over again. It means to stay in a given place。
or in a certain relationship. It means to continue. It means to dwell. It means to。
endure. It means to be present. It means to remain or to stand in a place. And so。
when Jesus is saying, "Abide in me," he's saying, "Remain connected to me. Remain in。
relationship with me. Continue in relationship. Stand in this relationship.。
Be in Christ." And he's telling us to remain in his words, to follow his。
commandments. He says in verse 10, "If you keep my commandments, you'll abide in my。
love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love."。
Saying this is a part of the abiding is to keep my commandments. What does that。
mean? Well, "keep my commandments" is a church phrase that really just means to。
do what Jesus said, to live out the things that he talked about and that he。
instructed the disciples in and that he instructs us in to do it, to live it out.。
That's what it means to keep his commandments. And so that means that we're。
remaining in his word, remaining in his truth. Again, what does that mean?。
There's nothing unusual about it. It just means that we continue to put in our mind。
and in our hearts the words of Christ. As we read scripture, as we look at what God。
says, as we do this every week and we come and gather together as his people。
and we talk about his word, that's a part of remaining in his word. It's a part of。
abiding in his truth. That's a part of abiding in Christ. It's continuing to。
stay connected to what he said and what he taught us and how he has told us to。
live and how we obey that. It means that we remain vigilant against sin. The Bible。
has all kinds of things to say, especially later in the New Testament。
and all the epistles, about behaviors that are wrong in God's sight and they're。
also harmful and self-destructive to us. And it warns us about those things. It。
says don't do these things. Follow after God. Stay free from sin. Stay。
vigilant against these behaviors and these desires in your own heart,。
whether it's pride or fear or anger or lust or desire for power or desire for。
control or all of these different things. We have to remain vigilant against those。
things. That's a part of remaining in Christ, a part of keeping his。
commandments. A part of abiding in Christ and remaining in Christ means to remain。
in his body. And we know the New Testament talks about that a lot more.。
When it talks about this another word picture of the body of Christ, that it's。
like a human body and that if we're going to be a healthy part of it, we have。
to be in it and be connected. If we get disconnected, then we start to experience。
unhealth and disease and even death. And Jesus talks about that in verse 6. If he。
says, "If anyone does not abide in me, he's thrown away like a branch and。
withers and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire and burned." If a。
branch gets disconnected from the trunk that is giving it resources to live, then。
it's gonna wither. It's gonna die. We all know that. If you've ever cut a branch。
off of a tree or seen one that gets blown off in a storm, the leaves don't。
stay green very long. They start to wither quickly. And so part of remaining。
in Jesus means we remain connected to his body. We continue to do this. We。
continue to gather together and worship and look at his words together and share。
the truth with one another. And that's a part of what keeps spiritual life going。
in us and keeps spiritual fruit coming out of us. And so these things are all。
kind of the the basics of our faith to remain in connection with Jesus. We need。
to remain in his word. We need to remain connected to him in prayer, communicating。
our heart to him. We need to remain connected in worship and in the life of。
his people and community of the church. Those are the basic things, but if we're。
not doing them, there's not going to be fruit. There's not going to be fruit that。
lasts. And sometimes we look at our lives and we say, "Well, I don't see the fruit I。
want to see. I've been asking God for some stuff and I want to see more and。
I'm just not seeing it." And that's a great place to start. It may be basic, but。
it's a great place to start is to ask ourselves, "Okay, well am I connected to。
Jesus right now? Maybe the reason I'm not seeing fruit is I'm just not really。
connected to God. I've just let my relationship with him grow cold and I'm。
not spending time in his word. I'm not spending time in worship or in prayer.。
I'm not spending time with his people." And as basic as that is, a lot of times。
that's right where the issue is. We're just disconnected. The next thing we see。
here is that abiding, which is the only way to fruit that lasts, is a。
relationship of trust. In verses 4 and 5, it says, "Abide in me and I in you as the。
branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine. Neither can。
you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in。
me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me you can do。
nothing." Those verses make it clear that the abiding thing is not us trying。
harder and working more for God because we can't do anything anyway. Jesus makes。
it really clear. The abiding is us trusting him to do the work that only he。
can do. In Isaiah chapter 5, the first seven verses God is describing his。
relationship to Israel and he's using the metaphor of Israel as the fruitful。
vine and it talks about the things that God does in order for his people to be。
fruitful. It talks about that God prepares the land, God removes the stones,。
God builds a hedge around the vineyard to keep out wild animals who would。
destroy the fruit, God builds a watchtower with the vineyard to keep the。
enemy away, and God prunes and God does the harvest. If you haven't ever read。
that passage, it's a great passage just to look at in Isaiah 5. And it reminds us。
that all the work is work that God does. We don't prepare the land, we don't。
remove the stones or build the hedge, we don't keep the enemy away, we don't keep。
wild animals away, and yet in our life a lot of times we feel like we need to do。
it. The fruit is gonna come because we need to work harder, we need to be。
smarter, figure more things out, and do more. And that's not what Jesus is。
calling us to here. He's saying apart from me you can do nothing. You have to trust。
and let God do the work that only God can do. Both to make us more like Christ。
but also to allow us to be fruitful in someone else's life. Only God can do the。
work of drawing people and changing hearts. Only God can bring healing,。
whether that's physical healing or what we've probably experienced, all of us。
have experienced even more emotional healing, things that have harmed us and。
things that are really keeping us from going where God wants us to go, and。
things that are causing self-destructive behavior in our life. Only God can bring。
that healing. And so abiding means to trust in God to do the work of the。
vinedresser. It means to trust in Jesus as the source of every need in our life.。
It means to trust in Jesus as the source of fruitfulness. Instead of trying to。
find other things to get connected to, that's such a huge temptation for us in。
life. We say I want to see more happening in my heart or my life or in someone。
else's life, so let me find some other things to connect to that I think will。
fill me up and will bring some fruit out of my life and will really, you know, get。
me going. I'm gonna connect to something else. And the sad thing is as we do that。
in life, we find that every other thing that we connect to ends up being。
unsatisfying and unfulfilling. It might give us a short-term rush and we think。
this is it, this is the new thing and I'm so happy and I feel great, but over time。
we find that we're unsatisfied and unfulfilled and all those other things.。
Christ is the only connection that's really gonna give us life and it's the。
only thing that's gonna give us fruitfulness. And the other beautiful。
thing about abiding is that in that trust we experience rest, right? Verses。
4 and 5, Jesus is real clear that he does the work. We, apart from him, we do nothing.。
Isn't that a peaceful thought to have? It's not peaceful for our flesh because。
like the proud part of us, the selfish part of us wants to be like, no, I should。
do something because I'm really talented, Jesus. Like you need me on。
your team, look at how good I am at all this stuff. But when we're in that mode。
and we're trying to work it out ourselves, we're gonna pretty quickly。
reach a point of complete discouragement, burnout, exhaustion because we can't do。
it ourselves. No matter how talented and smart and gifted you are, you're not。
gonna be able to live out the identity of a disciple of Jesus without Jesus。
living through you. You just can't. And so if you're trying to do that, you're gonna。
you're gonna be exhausted. And abiding gives us rest. It allows us to say, I。
can't, but he can and I'm trusting in him. I'm resting in his work in my life and。
that's a beautiful place to be. Another thing we see here, a difficult part of。
this passage but profound, is that pruning is essential for fruit that。
lasts. This word in the original language in verse 2 means to cleanse of impurity。
or filth or dirt and it means to prune trees and vines from useless shoots.。
Anything that's gonna be fruitful, but especially a grapevine, requires pruning。
to get to maximum fruitfulness. Grapevines have root suckers that grow。
up off the roots and there are these branches that grow out of the roots。
that aren't gonna be fruitful at all, but they pull a lot of energy and resources。
out of the main trunk of the plant. So those have to be pruned off for the。
plant to be fruitful. Also, most grapes produce fruit on shoots growing。
off of one-year-old canes or branches. If you have too many old canes because you。
haven't pruned, you'll get very few grapes because they're all too old. But。
if you prune everything back completely every year, again, you'll get very few。
grapes. You'll get a lot of new growth, but very few grapes. So the pruning has。
to be consistent and strategic to get fruitfulness, to maximize fruitfulness. We。
can't do that ourselves. Only God can do that. And God looks at our life and he。
says, "Hey, I want to use you and I want to do something with you, but there's some。
stuff that we got to cut away. There's some root suckers that, they have some。
big green leaves, but they're just pulling resources out of your heart and。
they're not bringing any fruit. And you're growing in the wrong direction.。
You're getting twisted. Vines also, vine dressers also use trellises and。
wires to grow the vine so that it'll be fruitful and also so that it will be,。
they'll be able to harvest it. And God has to do that in our lives. He has to say,。
"Okay, there's some growth over here that it's really headed in the wrong direction。
and I'm gonna have to prune that back." That's not painful. I mean, that is。
painful. Sorry, that's not fun. It's painful, but it's so essential for。
fruitfulness, especially fruit that lasts. And so we have to learn as followers of。
Jesus to embrace that and to let God prune away some of that unhealthy growth.。
And when we're in those seasons of pruning and we feel that, we feel like,。
"God, I feel like you're pruning me and you're stripping away some stuff that。
it's hard for me to let go of and I don't see fruit. It doesn't feel good。
right now. What do we do in that season?" We do what Jesus said. We remain. We。
continue to dwell with Him and we continue to abide because that pruning。
is essential if we're going to become fruitful. If God's going to get us to the。
place where He can do the things that He wants to do in our life, we have to。
continue to remain in Him, remain in His Word, remain in obedience, remain in His。
body, remain connected. Otherwise, the pruning begins. We become。
diseased and pretty soon we're disconnected and then we're being。
gathered for the fire. We're not useful to God. Another thing about。
fruit and grapevines I think is really interesting is that maturity is。
essential for fruit that lasts. When you think about any natural plant, what brings。
maturity? Well, time first and foremost, right? It takes some time but it also。
takes going through seasons of life. Through some winter seasons, through some。
flood seasons, through some times of drought and feeling very dry, through。
seasons of fire where it seems like everything around you is burning up and。
and you're wondering what's happening, through seasons of having attacks, right?。
The grapevines is one of the reasons the vine dresser would build the hedge。
because the grapevines have wild animals that come in and try to claw at the。
fruit and try to destroy the vine. There's thieves that come in and want to。
to steal the fruit before the vine dresser can get to it. Those are all a。
part of the seasons of life and they're a part of maturity. And if we're gonna。
get to fruitfulness and fruit that lasts, we're gonna have to go through some。
different seasons. We're gonna have to go through some of those seasons and maybe。
we're experiencing that right now. Maybe you're in a place of experiencing drought。
where you just feel spiritually dry and you feel like there's not much water in。
your life. Or maybe you're in a season of a fire where you feel like, man, things。
are burning up, things are falling apart. Like, I don't know what's。
happening in my life right now. God, where are you? Maybe you're experiencing a。
season of the wild animals where it feels like someone else is clawing at。
you trying to destroy the fruit or the good things that God has done in your。
heart. Those seasons are challenging, they're difficult, but they're a part of。
the process of maturity and they're the only way to grow in Christ and to。
experience fruitfulness. And so again, what do we do during those seasons? If。
you are in a season of drought or flood where you feel overwhelmed and it's just。
like the water's coming up over your head or fire, what do you do? You remain.。
You abide. You stay connected to Christ. You say, you know what, I don't see the。
fruit right now. I'm not seeing what I want in my life. I'm not seeing it in the。
lives of people around me. You know, God's put me in some place where I。
work or where I go to school or in my family and I know I'm supposed to。
minister here and I'm trying to serve others. I'm trying to love people and I。
don't see any fruit and it just seems like the world's going crazy and。
everything's on fire. What do you do? You remain. You abide. You continue to remain。
in Christ, remain true to his word and be obedient to him, remain connected to his。
body and you continue to live out the truth that he's told you to live out. You。
continue to be obedient to him. That's what you do in those seasons. You。
continue to hold on to him, continue to trust that he can bring the fruit and he。
will bring the fruit and continue to rest and experience his peace. You're not。
responsible for the fruit. He is. And the other part of maturity is that there's。
time that has to take place before the fruit that last comes and this is。
important for us to think about. It's obvious but it's still important for us。
because we live in a modern industrial world, right? Jesus uses an illustration。
that involves organic time and that's intentional, okay? Most of us don't live。
on organic time. We live on machine time. We're used to machine processes that。
happen very quickly. We're used to things that can be produced very quickly. We're。
used to microwaves and drive-thrus and car assembly lines that produce a。
thousand cars in a month, right? We're used to machine processes. Jesus,。
apparently discipleship and spiritual fruit is not a machine process and。
that's the whole reason Jesus uses this very organic illustration to say, "Hey,。
growth and fruit, it's gonna take some time." It doesn't matter what you're。
planting. If you're planting apples or pears or tomatoes or grapes or corn,。
there is no fruit immediately after planting. If you've ever gardened and you。
plant some tomatoes in your backyard, we do a lot of gardening in our。
neighborhood and at our house. We love it. My wife and I do a lot of that with the。
kids. We had our, right now our tomatoes are doing fantastic, our peppers and we。
have a lot of squash, but we planted all that stuff, most of it way before we。
could even take it outside. So back in February, March, because in Chicago if you。
want to have fruit before, you know, the first freeze in September, October, the。
plants need to be mature when you put them in the ground the first week of。
June. So they got planted a long time ago. You put seeds in the ground, there's no。
fruit. There's no fruit for days. There's no fruit for weeks. And some trees, like。
fruit trees, there's no fruit for years. Sometimes you have to wait five years。
with certain fruit trees before you get the first fruit. This is an organic。
process. Here's something a little bit scary for us to think about. Fake fruit。
can be produced immediately. If you want to make apples and tomatoes out of。
plastic, you can make them right away, right? But what's the thing about fake。
fruit? There's no nourishment. It doesn't have what real fruit has. It might look。
good, especially if it's sitting on the other side of the room. You might think,。
"Wow, that apple looks really good." If you ever tried to eat a wax apple or a。
plastic grape, you know what I'm talking about. My mom had plastic grapes。
somewhere in our house when I was little and I did put them in my mouth a few。
times because they looked really good. But when you chew on them, it's just。
plastic, right? It looks good, but it doesn't have the taste and the texture.。
It doesn't have the vitamins and minerals. It doesn't have the nourishment.。
It's fake. And we're tempted to do that in our walk with God so much. We're。
tempted to say, "Man, real fruit takes a long time in my life. It takes a long time。
in discipling someone else to see real fruit." So wouldn't it be better just to。
do fake fruit? Like we could just speed the process up and really kind of juice。
this up and make it happen real quick. But the problem is fake fruit doesn't。
have what you're really looking for. It doesn't have that texture and taste. It。
doesn't have that, the nourishment. It's huge for me and my wife. As parents, we。
talk about this all the time. Something that we deal with in parenting all the。
time. We're tempted to just try to modify our kids behavior and make them do what。
we think is right. That's fake fruit. There's nothing wrong with working on。
their behavior, but we want their hearts to be changed, not just their behavior,。
right? Because if it's just their behavior, that may look okay for a while,。
but if their heart hasn't been changed, eventually they'll say, "I'm not。
interested in this behavior anymore," right? So we want their heart to be。
changed, and that's how God is working in our lives. He's not just interested in。
something superficial that looks good that happens overnight where he says,。
"Okay, you know, you used to dress this way. Now dress that way. All right, now you're。
done." That's not what God's doing. God is doing something transformative in our。
hearts. Is it gonna change our behavior? Yes. Should our behavior look different。
than the people around us who don't know Christ? Yes. But here's the key.。
God's work transforms us from the inside out. Our behavior changed because our。
heart is different, and if we're just modifying our behavior, that's from the。
outside in, we can try to do better all we want, but if our heart's not different,。
we're just gonna keep going back to the same stuff. And the process of spiritual。
fruit is a transformative inside-out process. God says, "Is your behavior gonna。
be different? Yes, but it's gonna be different because your heart's different,。
your desires are different. You are a new person, and that takes time." And so if you。
are in a season of waiting right now where you say, "I don't see the。
fruit in my own life. I'm trying to obey, but I still have these struggles. I still。
have, you know, temptations that I'm like, 'Why is this still here, God?'" Or maybe。
in someone else's life, someone that you love and you're serving, you're trying to。
help them grow in Christ, and you say, "Man, I've been walking with this person for a。
couple of years now, or even longer, and I'm just not seeing the fruit." Understand。
that God is at work in an organic process. It's gonna take some time. And。
one of the things that we can't bypass, even in the world that we live in with。
all of our technology, we can't produce our food on machine time. We just can't.。
As much as we juice the process of crops and fruit and whatever else we grow, we。
can only do it so much before it becomes diseased and unhealthy, and then we can't。
eat it. And that's what spiritual fruit is. You can't--there are some ways。
that you can connect with God, yes, but you can't really shortcut that process.。
There's no real, like, spiritual steroids that just make you bulk。
up overnight. That's not a thing. You've got to spend the time with God, and God's。
got to work in your life. And that's the same is true when you're walking with。
other people. You've got to give God time to work in their life. So I want to。
encourage us with that. I think as we follow Jesus, we're always tempted to。
compare ourselves to others. We're always tempted to feel like we just need to try。
harder. We're always tempted to say, "Well, this person seems to be, you know, going。
well in their life, or they're growing, and like, why can't I experience that?" Or。
we're always tempted to ask ourselves, "Oh, you know, I should--this should be。
faster. I should be experiencing more of God's work in my life. This should。
happen a lot quicker. I'm trying to love this person over here, and nothing's。
going on. Why not? What's the problem?" We want to live on machine time. We want to。
produce false fruit. We want to say, "God, I'm tired of waiting for you to work, so。
maybe if I just do some stuff, it'll speed up, and we'll all feel better about。
it." I do that all the time, all these things. That's why I'm bringing them up,。
because they're very familiar to me. And yet, Jesus is calling me to remain, to。
abide, saying, "Don't try to make shortcuts. Don't try to juice the process. Just。
remain. Just abide. If you're in a season of drought, season of fire, season of。
flood, keep waiting. If you're in a season of just not much going on, continue to。
abide. If you're even--if you're in a season of suffering or hurt, or where。
you're confused in some way, continue to abide. Remain connected to Jesus. If。
you're in a season of pruning, where God's taking some stuff out of your life,。
continue to abide. Be connected to Him. Be connected to His people. And as we do。
that, God is at work, and He's bringing spiritual life into us, and it is going。
to express itself in fruit. It will. But it takes time, and it takes remaining in。
Christ. It takes abiding. It takes standing in Him and continuing to be。
connected to Him. Let's pray. God, I just thank you for the beauty of your words,。
and of this word picture for us that helps us see that the spiritual fruit in。
our lives is not necessarily going to come in the way that we want it to. And。
God, help us to trust you. Help us to abide. Help us to remain, to continue to。
be connected to you, and obedient, and live out your commands, and stay。
vigilant against sin, to continue to follow you, even when it's hard, even when。
we're experiencing suffering, or pruning, or drought, or fire, or flood. Help us to。
wait in the times when we're just waiting for maturity, or for growth, or。
for something to be strengthened. God, help us to remain in you, and as we do。
that, help us to find rest. Help us to really trust you to do the work that。
only you can do, to take the pressure off of ourselves, and to just really rest in。
you, and in your work in our lives. And God, I pray in my life, and in the lives of。
each one of us in this room, that you would get glory, and you would get fruit.。
That fruit would come out of our lives that glorifies you, and that impacts the。
world around us, our family, our friends, our community, our neighborhoods, for the。
sake of your name, and for your glory, and for the love that you have for those。
people who surround us, God. I pray that that fruit would be abundant in our lives.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Okay, thank you Sam for teaching us and encouraging us from the Word of God。
today. And yeah, as we have learned from John 15, my prayer for us as a church, and。
for all of us, is that we can, yeah, learn to abide deeply in Christ, especially at。
times when there are so many voices, ideologies, grabbing, fighting for our。
attention. So, thank you for the reminder again, Sam. And if you're a regular at UV,。
you know the drill after the service, but if you are new here, first, welcome to UV,。
and second, usually after the service, we'll have some refreshment at the cafe。
area, which is just to my right. So, we would like to encourage you to stay back,。
enjoy some food, and also give us an opportunity to get to know you as well.。
So, go in peace, UV, your love.。
