Good morning, everyone.。
It is great to be here on another Sunday morning with all of you to worship with you, to take。
communion with you, and to just enjoy the presence of this family that we've been adopted。
into.。
If I could, let me open us in a word of prayer.。
Would you bow your heads with me as we pray?。
Our Heavenly Father, our Lord, and our God, we come before you today not by what we have。
done, not by our own merit, but because you saw us first and you loved us first, Lord,。
and you have brought us into your presence.。
And so, God, this Sunday morning we give to you, I ask that you would just calm our hearts,。
Lord, and give us minds that are focused.。
Would you clear away the clouds of sleep, of the troubles of this week?。
Would you focus our attention upon you?。
And so for that, Lord, I ask that you would be with me, that you would speak through me,。
and would you protect the ears of my brothers and sisters as they listen to what I say about。
your word?。
Would you help them remember your word and your word alone?。
All these things we pray in Jesus' name, amen.。
Okay, so we'll be continuing our reading of James today, this letter from the Apostle。
James to the Jewish Christians of the dispersion, where he calls for his brothers and sisters。
to live lives according to the faith that they profess.。
To be more than just believers in name, but also believers in their living.。
In James' words, Christians cannot just be hearers of the word of God, you and I must。
also be doers.。
Last week, we saw in chapter 2, verses 14 to 26, that it is a living faith that saves.。
That a faith which is without works, without any impact on a person's life, is like trying。
to live without breathing.。
It's a life that's incomplete, missing an essential part, an essential aspect, and it。
is one that cannot sustain you.。
It's wrong to live in this way, and it's impossible to live in this way.。
The only outcome from a faith without works is death.。
And so, James calls for his brothers and sisters to have a complete faith and be complete people.。
He wants his fellow believers to be perfect, affected by their faith and transformed so。
that their entire being both agrees and works in cohesive wisdom and righteousness.。
Toward that end, we are brought to the next part of his letter to his displaced brothers。
and sisters.。
If you have your Bibles with you, I invite you to turn with me to the book of James,。
it's third chapter, verses 1 to 12.。
Again, that is James chapter 3, verses 1 to 12.。
If you don't have a Bible with you this morning, they'll be right here.。
So let's read, all right?。
James chapter 3, verses 1 to 12.。
Not many of you should become teachers, my fellow believers, because you know that we。
who teach will be judged more strictly.。
We all stumble in many ways.。
Anyone who is never at fault in what they say is perfect, able to keep their whole body。
in check.。
When we put bits in the mouths of horses and make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal.。
Or take ships as an example.。
Although they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a very。
small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go.。
Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts.。
Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark.。
The tongue also is a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body.。
It corrupts the whole body, sets the whole course of one's life on fire, and is itself。
set on fire by hell.。
All kinds of animals, birds, reptiles, and sea creatures are being tamed and have been。
tamed by mankind, but no human being can tame the tongue.。
It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.。
With the tongue, we praise our Lord and Father, and with it, we curse human beings who have。
been made in God's likeness.。
Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing.。
My brothers and sisters, this should not be.。
Can both fresh water and fresh water be the same?。
My brothers and sisters, can a fig tree bear olives or a grapevine bear figs?。
Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water.。
Do you want to be what James calls his brothers and sisters to be?。
A person who is wise and complete and whole?。
A person perfected by their faith?。
Here in James chapter 3, verses 1 to 12, we see the centrality of the tongue in being。
perfect.。
He starts off this chapter by advising caution when considering a position of teaching among。
believers, right?。
Verses 1 to 2, "Not many of you should become teachers, my fellow believers, because you。
know that we who teach will be judged more strictly.。
We all stumble in many ways.。
Someone who is never at fault in what they say is perfect.。
It would keep their whole body in check."。
In speaking about strict judgment, we begin to think about the standard of God.。
It's the standard of perfection.。
And what James states is that among the many ways in which we fail to keep this standard,。
we most commonly and often fail through what we say.。
We are prone to mistakes, and one great maker of mistakes is our tongue, to the point where。
James says that perfection in speech translates to perfection in character.。
There's a correlation being drawn between a self-controlled tongue and a self-controlled。
body.。
So you see in verses 1 to 2 that the tongue is important, that the tongue holds a key。
place in the direction of your living.。
In order to help us understand this, James gives us two illustrations in verses 3 and。
4, a horse and a boat.。
There we go.。
If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies。
as well.。
Look at the ships also.。
Though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small。
rudder wherever the will of a pilot directs.。
That is a different version, but here we have two examples.。
One is a living creature, the other is a man-made vehicle.。
These are large things.。
Horses and boats move with immense power.。
Have you ever seen a horse?。
Anyone?。
They're big.。
Okay, I don't know how else to describe them, but they are much bigger than I pictured them。
to be.。
When we quantify the strength of modern-day machinery, what do we use?。
What sort of word do we use?。
We use the word "horsepower" because horses are this measurement of strength.。
We tell people, "This machine has this many horses' worth of power."。
By using a bit, which is a metal rod that fits across the inside of a horse's mouth,。
we're able to steer the horse.。
We're able to cue and direct the horse in the direction that we want.。
A small tug lets the horse know which direction it should turn.。
The entire body of the horse is guided by this bit, and it's the same with a boat.。
We're given this imagery by James of a large boat driven by strong winds, although they。
are so large and are driven by strong winds.。
It's a large boat.。
This boat is able to withstand the force of nature.。
It takes the power of these air currents to be pushed across the waters.。
And yet, using a rudder, a pilot is able to influence and change the direction of that。
force.。
The boat is steered by the will of the pilot.。
And so we're given these examples to help us understand the effect of words.。
Because the tongue holds a key place in the direction of their living.。
It is the means by which even a body of great size is directed and controlled.。
It is a small member of the body, but it makes great claims, which turns the body in unholy。
and ungodly directions.。
If you would look with me at James chapter 3, verse 5, it's on the screen right here.。
Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts.。
Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark.。
The tongue boasts.。
It makes claims, it oversteps, and it speaks in ill ways.。
We see in verse 5 through the idea of boasting that this small part of the body is not leading。
its bearer in the good directions.。
There is not a proper helmsman at the wheel of this ship.。
Instead of works of mercy and compassion, there is only death and destruction.。
What a great forest is set on fire by a small spark.。
You know, since earlier this year, I think it was around March and April, there have。
been a lot of wildfires consuming Canada.。
And I think Chicago got a brief taste of this smoke and ash.。
It drifted in over from the north.。
And now what I read, this was in August, around August, I read was that the wildfires had。
burned up 37.8 million acres of land.。
That is a lot of land.。
And something interesting to go with that is that a good portion of these fires were。
started by dry thunderstorms.。
It's this lightning produced by the dry environment that sparks these small fires.。
Fires which spread across dried out vegetation in the blink of an eye, blazing into these。
massive uncontrollable conflagrations.。
They're uncontrollable.。
They grow faster than they can be put out and they destroy and displace with no regard。
for anyone and anything.。
James describes the tongue as a fire, not just an object that steers, that changes your。
direction, but a fire that wreaks havoc on everything around it.。
The tongue is also a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body.。
It corrupts the whole body, sets the whole course of one's life on fire.。
Look at that statement in the first sentence of verse six.。
The tongue is a world of evil.。
The present reality of wrongdoing in this world and all the unrighteousness of that。
world occurs and it finds its representation in the tongue.。
The tongue is the part of our bodies which is used by God's enemy to do harm.。
James points at it as a manifestation of evil that corrupts the whole body, the entire body,。
the part which directs the rest of our body towards a life of evil and destruction.。
It is set on fire by hell.。
These are harsh words, scary words.。
James looks at the tongue as a power for evil.。
And so our tongues, holding a key position in the direction of our living, more often。
than not directs us towards evil.。
Have you ever been in a situation where you found yourself processing hurt or anger?。
We're human beings.。
Of course we have.。
Maybe in those situations we find friends or family to vent our thoughts to.。
Maybe we even sit and mutter to ourselves going over and over again and again how the。
offense happened.。
But in that process we find that we work ourselves up into a rage.。
We get angrier and angrier or more and more upset as we hear our own words, not just our。
spoken words, but also our thoughts as we revisit them over and over again.。
And then sometimes we even begin to take it out on the people around us and transgress。
against our brothers and sisters.。
The tongue, our words, influence us.。
They stain and they spread.。
The tongue corrupts the whole body, causing our hands and feet to stumble.。
And there is terrible news beyond this.。
If you would look with me to verses seven and eight.。
All kinds of animals, birds, and reptiles, and sea creatures are being tamed and have。
been tamed by mankind.。
But no human being can tame the tongue.。
It is a restless evil full of deadly poison.。
Think about how mankind has transformed all the things around us to suit our purposes.。
The multitude of animals that have been domesticated for our benefit.。
Consider the blessing and command of God to Adam and Eve to subdue the earth and to have。
dominion over the fish of the sea and the birds in the sky and over every living creature。
that moves on the ground.。
We have dog owners in our crowd and cat owners.。
These animals are now used to living inside our homes.。
Our food and our clothing come from cattle, from sheep, from domesticated pigs.。
Going even further than animals, the very land on which you now, I guess you are not。
standing, you are sitting, it's been shaped by mankind.。
You live in Chicago, we're here in Chicago, and this place actually used to be a swamp.。
And yet, even with all this accomplishment and ability, no human being can tame the tongue.。
It says so right there.。
No human being can tame the tongue.。
While the things that inhabit this earth can be tamed, the tongue cannot be tamed by man.。
This is terrible and sobering news.。
Instead of us controlling our tongues, our tongues control us.。
Our tongues don't just direct us towards evil.。
They are themselves a restless force of evil that continuously fights to corrupt every。
part of us.。
They're like a poison that infects everything we do and everyone we interact with.。
And this, this is wrong.。
James makes it clear to you and me that this is not right at all.。
The entire letter of James reminds us that those who are believers in Jesus Christ are。
not people of death, but people of life, living children of God with a living faith who are。
called to be both hearers and doers of the word of God.。
In verse 9, in verse 9, we are presented with this reality of what comes out of the mouth。
of men.。
With the tongue, we praise our Lord and Father.。
With the tongue, we curse human beings who have been made in God's likeness.。
These are contrary actions.。
Praises and curses strive towards separate purposes.。
And not only this, the curses are directed at those made in God's likeness.。
We are people who are in the image of God, a faint reflection of the one with infinite。
worth who is worthy of all praise.。
So curses against these human beings made in God's likeness slander the very God who。
was just being praised.。
And these come out of the same mouth, the mouth of those supposed living children of。
God with living faith.。
This should not be.。
James, in his usual fashion, asks rhetorical questions again.。
If you would look with me to verses 11 and 12.。
Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring?。
My brothers and sisters, can a fig tree bear olives or a grapevine bear figs?。
Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring?。
The implied and obvious answer is what?。
No, obviously not.。
One when drank will satisfy thirst, the other will deepen thirst.。
These are different waters.。
They are not the same.。
Can a fig tree bear olives or a grapevine bear figs?。
Again, the answer is no, right?。
These are not things that can happen.。
To borrow a line from one of my classmates, we are proved through what we produce.。
Fig trees being fig trees bear figs and olive trees bear olives.。
They are not the same plant, the same with a grapevine.。
Grapevines produce grapes because they are grapevines.。
They bear their corresponding fruit.。
So why are praise and cursing both flowing from the same source?。
How can both death and life be produced by the same tongue?。
What does that prove about the one who is speaking?。
James makes this clear to you and to me, that this is wrong.。
It should not be and it must not be any longer.。
You and I, being people who follow the Lord Jesus Christ, who profess faith in Jesus,。
must become living children of God with living faith.。
Words of evil and death have no place coming from such people.。
So then, knowing that the tongue holds a key place in the direction of our living, that。
our tongues direct us towards evil and that children of God should not be guided by or。
speak evil, what should you do?。
Is the solution to work hard to control our tongues?。
Is it to, from this point on, having heard what you heard, put all your effort into gaining。
control over our words?。
Obviously not.。
If you look back at verse 8, no human power can tame the tongue.。
It doesn't matter how much effort you put in.。
You cannot force fresh water to flow out of a saltwater spring.。
So what's the solution then?。
Do you want to be a person who is wise, complete, and whole?。
A person that is directed by righteousness rather than an evil tongue?。
If that is the case, then position yourself.。
Position yourself to be shaped and led by the words of God rather than the words of。
men.。
Because it is not a word of life that comes out of you that transforms you.。
It is words of life that are given to you that transform you.。
And God has given you his word to transform you.。
James himself pulls from wisdom literatures such as Psalms and Proverbs.。
And here is an example.。
Never mind.。
Where is it?。
One second.。
Okay, guess it's not there.。
If you have your Bibles with me, you can turn to Psalms.。
The book of Psalms, its first chapter.。
You'll be looking at verses one to three real briefly.。
It is not on the screen, and that's okay.。
I'll read it out for you, all right?。
Psalm chapter one, verses one to three.。
Blessed is the one who does not walk in step with the wicked, or stand in the way that。
sinners take, or sit in the company of mockers, but whose delight is in the law of the Lord。
and who meditates on his law day and night.。
That person is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season,。
and whose leaf does not wither.。
Whatever they do, prospers.。
That's the example I give to you.。
If you look at this verse, you'll find that there's this person here that's mentioned.。
A person who resists evil and flourishes like a tree planted by streams of water.。
And they do so by meditating on the word of God day and night.。
Do you know what it means to meditate?。
It's not this concept of clearing your mind that we so often think about.。
You're not emptying.。
You are filling your mind.。
In scripture, to meditate is to mutter, to murmur to yourself, and to speak the word。
of God as you read it over and over.。
It's not just a mental effort either.。
It's this engaging of your entire person, an exercise of your lips, your tongue, and。
your teeth.。
To meditate is to engage fully and to truly take in the word of God.。
This person here who is described, the one who is blessed, who does not walk in the ways。
of sin, is not directed by evil, and instead meditates on God's law day and night.。
This is Jesus.。
Meditate on God's word just as Jesus does.。
And this is not new.。
All right?。
This is not new at all.。
This is the same truth over and over in the letter of James.。
Our actions and behaviors are not the reason for our faith.。
They are the result of our faith.。
In this chapter that we have just looked at, chapter three, James calls for believers to。
correctly display the state of their hearts through what they say.。
And so, having heard all of this, having seen the importance of the tongue in shaping the。
way in which you live, while also knowing that this is a daunting fight, one that you。
cannot win on your own, allow the word of God to direct the way in which you speak.。
Be diligent.。
Be a diligent hearer of the word of God so that you become a diligent doer of the word。
of God.。
And by doing so, do not prove a bitter and critical heart through bitter and critical。
words.。
Instead, prove to be a living child of God with a living faith through living words.。
Let me close us in a brief word of prayer.。
Would you bow your heads with me as we pray?。
Father, you are the one who gives life.。
You are the breath in our lungs.。
You are the one who spoke first and created all of creation.。
And so, Lord, I ask in this moment that you would speak to your people, that you would。
speak to my brothers and sisters, that your word would be the first thing upon their heart,。
the thing that shapes them, because it is your righteousness that we cling to, your。
work that we cling to.。
And so I ask that you would continue to place your hand upon them, that you would remove。
the calluses from their heart, that you would give their ears the ability to hear your word,。
their eyes the ability to see your word.。
Lord, would you place your spirit in them anew that they might come to know you in deeper。
and deeper ways.。
We pray all this in Jesus' name, amen.。
