Thank you, James.。
And I'm excited to be here.。
Glad to see everyone here.。
I'm always honored to be able to be at Urban Voice and to be here again and to see old。
friends and new friends.。
And excited to open the word with you all today.。
So we're going to be looking in John chapter 8 today.。
If you want to turn there in your Bible or on your Bible app or whatever you're using。
here, John chapter 8, we're going to be looking at verses 31 and 32, these kind of famous。
verses where Jesus is talking about truth.。
And these are important verses for us.。
Culturally, we live in a time where people talk a lot about truth and think a lot about。
truth, but it's hard for us to define it.。
It's hard for us to figure out what we mean when we say the word truth.。
And Jesus has some really profound things to say here that are really good for us to。
understand, especially in the church.。
So we're going to look at these today.。
John 8, 31 says this, "So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, 'If you abide in。
my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set。
you free.'"。
What's happening in this passage, Jesus, earlier in the passage in verse 12, he declares。
that he is the light of the world.。
He reveals that to the people that are listening to him.。
And immediately, the Pharisees who are listening accuse him of lying about himself in verse。
13.。
So Jesus begins to explain to the Pharisees and everyone else who's listening that they're。
misunderstanding the kingdom of God.。
And that happens in verse 14 on down to verse 29.。
And then verse 30 tells us that as a result of what Jesus is saying, a lot of people who。
are listening begin to believe in him.。
They begin to place their trust in him and have faith in him that he is who he says he。
is, that he is the Messiah, the light of the world as he proclaimed himself to be.。
Then verse 31, he begins to speak to those people, the people who have begun to believe。
in him, the people who are following him.。
And he says, "If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know。
the truth, and the truth will set you free."。
That means these words are spoken to people like us, people who are followers of Jesus,。
who have already made the decision to believe in him and follow him.。
And Jesus is giving us some profound, significant truth about what it means to be a disciple.。
Now obviously, in our culture, at times we have a strange relationship with what we call。
truth.。
Most of us want to define truth for ourselves, and so we make a lot of statements like, "That's。
true for you, but not true for me," or we say, "Live your truth," things like that.。
But even as we seek to make truth personal and self-defined, we keep running into these。
kind of unyielding boundaries of reality.。
So then what we do sometimes is we relabel the boundaries in order to kind of fit our。
thinking.。
We say, "Well, maybe if we change the names and move the goalposts, then it'll make sense."。
So now we have terms that culturally we use like misinformation and disinformation because。
there's so much falsehood.。
There's so many things, so many labels that have been changed that people get confused。
about what is true, what's right and wrong.。
Yet even in that, we can't decide really what disinformation is or who gets to determine。
what the standard of disinformation is, and we argue about that.。
We're desperately trying to figure out what's true, but a lot of times we're also desperately。
trying to make truth in our own image.。
And we want the truth to match our desires and our preferences and usually to excuse。
our shortcomings, to excuse our mess.。
But the reality that the Bible puts in front of us is that we don't live in a world of。
our own creation.。
We don't get to make truth in our image because we live in a world that's created by the almighty。
creator God, and he's the one who's defined reality and truth itself according to his。
own character.。
And as much as we might try to escape that, we can't.。
We can't escape that pull of his reality, the world that he has made.。
It's like gravity, it keeps pulling us back down.。
So what are we talking about when we say the word truth?。
How are we going to define that?。
How are we going to define that today?。
I think the simplest and most accurate way to think about the word itself is to say that。
truth is something that corresponds to reality.。
So a simple illustration of this is if I were to say that I was wearing red leather pants。
today, we could safely say that's an untrue statement, right?。
Because I'm not wearing red leather pants, I'm wearing some type of cotton polyester。
blend that's a tan color, right?。
So that's kind of an obvious illustration.。
If I say something that doesn't correspond to the reality, then we can say, well, that's。
a false statement, that's not true.。
Well, if truth is something that corresponds to reality, where did reality come from?。
Where does ultimate reality come from?。
Well, the Bible tells us that ultimate reality comes from God.。
That God's the one who created the universe, created everything that we see.。
He is not only the creator of ultimate reality, but he's the only one who really understands。
it and comprehends it and encompasses it, right?。
Because God has all knowledge and all power in the universe.。
So God's really the only one who can know what ultimate reality is.。
He's the only one who can look at all of it and see all of it.。
At very best, our versions of reality and our visions of reality are incomplete at very。
best.。
Sometimes if we're honest, we can admit that sometimes they're just plain wrong.。
Sometimes we get totally the wrong idea about what is real and important in life.。
But at very best, what we see as real and important in life is gonna be incomplete because。
we cannot see all of reality.。
We can't see all of truth.。
We do not know all the things there are to know.。
But God does.。
He created reality.。
He created the universe.。
He created morality and what's right and wrong.。
Those things are defined by him.。
And so when he makes a statement and says, "Hey, this is what's right.。
This is what's good for you.。
This is the way to go."。
He actually knows what he's talking about because he possesses all the knowledge and。
all of the wisdom and he can see it from every angle and he can make a true statement.。
And we can't do that because our knowledge is narrow.。
Our wisdom is narrow and our vision is very closely defined.。
We can only see things from our own perspective.。
And that reminds us that when we think about truth, there really isn't any such thing as。
my truth and someone else's truth, right?。
There's really only God's truth.。
God's the only one who can say what truth is because he's the only one who can see it。
all.。
We can have our versions but ultimately, only God's truth is gonna be truth.。
Only God can possess that.。
And Jesus begins to speak about this in chapter 8 here.。
Jesus starts to talk about how we, if we are gonna be a disciple, a follower of Jesus,。
then we need to understand his truth and how that takes place, what that looks like in。
our lives.。
So the first thing I want us to see that Jesus is communicating here is that if we're gonna。
dwell in the truth, then we've really got to soak in God's word.。
And in verse 31, there's a couple of key words here.。
He says, "If you abide in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine."。
The word in the original language for abide means to remain or dwell or to continue to。
be present in a place or to sojourn there or another meaning which I really love is。
to endure.。
So he's saying if you stay in my word, if you're always there, if you're dwelling there,。
if you're living there, if it's your home, then you're a true disciple.。
And one of the cool things about this word, like I said, I like that meaning of endure.。
It reminds us that there are times when it's not easy to remain.。
It's not easy to stay there.。
It's not easy to continue on.。
And that's what Jesus is telling these followers who have just taken the step of faith.。
They said, "Jesus, we believe.。
What does it mean to follow you?"。
He says, "You've got to remain.。
You've got to stay.。
You've got to continue to dwell there."。
The other key word in this verse is the word logos, the word for word.。
When Jesus says, "If you abide in my word," that word in the Greek means like an idea,。
a concept, a teaching, a doctrine, a saying.。
But in the book of John, particularly, it also refers to Jesus himself.。
And I think that gives this verse a really beautiful double meaning.。
Jesus is saying, "You've got to dwell and remain and abide in my teaching, but you've。
also got to dwell and remain and abide in my presence."。
There's two things that are being said in this verse.。
Jesus is saying that you've got to understand the truth that I've communicated to you.。
You've got to learn those things and you've got to abide in them, but you've also got。
to abide in relationship.。
You've got to be in my presence with me.。
And as we said earlier, when he says that, when we think about what truth is and we say,。
"Okay, what does it mean to remain in God's word?。
How are we going to know the truth about reality?"。
The clearest implication for us, living 2,000 years after Jesus was on the earth, is that。
we need to spend time in God's word, the Bible.。
Now for these people that Jesus was speaking to on this day, he said, "If you abide in。
my word," that could have meant following Jesus around and listening to what he was。
saying.。
But we're not in that position, right?。
We're not in that position, right?。
Jesus is no longer physically present on the earth in a physical body.。
So we can't say, "Okay, well, to dwell and remain in Jesus' teaching means I've got to。
go to where he is and listen to what he says," because his physical presence has left the。
earth.。
So what it means for us is that we have to spend time in the Bible.。
And we know that God has told us in the New Testament that the Bible, scripture, is his。
word spoken to us, just like if he were speaking in a conversation.。
So the Bible is God's revelation to us.。
It's God revealing himself, God saying, "Hey, this is who I am.。
This is what's important about the universe.。
This is what's important about how you live your lives.。
This is how I want you to treat other people.。
This is how I want you to care for others."。
All those things are spoken to us in scripture, and that's what it means for us to abide,。
to remain in Jesus' words, his teachings, his ideas, and also in his presence, is to。
be immersed and saturated and soaked in the scripture.。
And I chose the word "soak" intentionally because it gives us the picture of something。
that surrounds you and you're just in it all the time.。
And that's what our relationship to scripture should be like, especially in the world that。
we live in.。
There are so many things that challenge our faith.。
There are so many things that are difficult.。
There are so many things that we face in any given week that can really discourage us or。
harm us or knock us down.。
And it's not going to be enough to say, "Well, I read a Bible verse once," or, you know,。
"I remember something that I heard one time in church," or "One day a week, I'm going。
to try to connect with God."。
We need to be soaking in it.。
We need to have it all the time.。
It needs to be a life-sustaining thing that is constantly coming into our lives.。
And so we need to be spending time in God's Word.。
We need to be soaking there.。
We need to saturate our lives, be reading it, be considering it, reflecting on it, meditating。
on it, saying, "What does this mean?。
What is God saying to me?"。
We need to do this, where we get together with other believers and talk about it and。
say, "What does this verse mean, and how can we encourage each other to follow it, and。
how can we take care of one another and support one another?"。
That's all a part of remaining in His words, in His teaching that He talks about in verse。
31.。
We need to be alive in that relationship with Christ so that we're in His presence, and。
the Holy Spirit's working to illuminate God's Word to our hearts.。
Now the obvious implication of soaking in God's Word is that to dwell in the truth,。
we have to know the truth.。
And in verse 32, where it says, "And you shall know the truth," that word in the original。
language "to know" means that you perceive or understand or become acquainted with something,。
but it also communicates a knowledge that's grounded in personal experience.。
So that's communicating to us that there's going to be a deep knowledge there that involves。
the experience of our lives, the things that we go through, not just kind of a head knowledge。
where we're like, "Yeah, I heard that," or "I read that."。
It's gonna really impact our day-to-day.。
And first of all, the first step of walking in truth and knowing truth is to just become。
aware of it.。
Like we just said, we've got to engage with it, we've got to read it, we make ourselves。
aware of it.。
But it has to go beyond that.。
If we are gonna dwell in the truth, we have to submit to the truth.。
You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.。
That word "know" is not just saying you know it in terms of awareness.。
A lot of times when we use the word "know," we mean awareness.。
Like you might say, "Did you know that Chicago's the third largest city in the U.S.?"。
I'm not saying, "Do you know that?"。
Like, "Have you experienced it?"。
I'm saying, "Are you aware that Chicago's the third largest city?"。
It's two very different things, even though we use the same word.。
And so when this says, "You shall know the truth," it doesn't mean you're aware that。
Jesus loves you, but it's saying, "Have you experienced the love and grace of Christ?"。
Two very, very different things.。
Knowledge that is more than awareness.。
In Romans 1:19-21, Paul talks about people that know, it says, "For what can be known。
about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them for His invisible attributes,。
namely His eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the。
creation of the world in the things that have been made.。
It's there without excuse, for although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or。
give thanks to Him."。
Paul's talking about people who know that God exists, they know He's there, they're。
aware of God, but they're not submitting to Him.。
They're saying, "Okay, I understand that God is there, but that's not going to change anything。
in my life."。
So if we're going to dwell on the truth, if it's going to be our living place, and as。
Jesus says in verse 31, if we're going to be a true disciple, then we've got to submit。
to it, not just know it.。
We've got to say, "Okay, God, I hear what you're saying.。
I may not really like it that much, but I'm going to submit, I'm going to agree with you.。
I'm going to actually start to live that out and apply it in my life, even if it makes。
me a little bit uncomfortable, even if it's different than how I wish it would be."。
And as we submit to it, we've also got to respond.。
That's a part of that knowing that is grounded in personal experience.。
First John 3, 18 and 19 says this, "Little children, let us not love in word or talk,。
but in deed and in truth.。
By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before Him."。
It's not enough just to talk about it.。
It's not enough just to give mental assent to it.。
We have to live it out.。
We have to respond.。
When God challenges our heart and says, "Hey, here's some of my truth, and this is what。
it would mean in your life," we have to say, "Okay, I understand that.。
I know it.。
I want to submit to it, and then I'm actually going to respond."。
So like tomorrow, I'm going to do something different than what I did yesterday.。
That's the response.。
There's the awareness of the truth.。
There's the submission to the truth where we say, "Okay, I'm actually going to submit。
to it, apply it to my life."。
But we still haven't responded until we've done it.。
And that's when the truth changes us.。
That's when it starts to change who we are.。
Another thing that's a huge part of the process of truth changing us and dwelling in the truth。
is that we have to reject lies.。
And that's kind of an obvious statement.。
It's like, "Well, obviously," right?。
But this is really, really tough for us, especially if you've been in church for very long.。
You may know a lot about the Bible.。
You may know a lot about God's truth.。
You may even submit to it and be trying to respond to it.。
But sometimes we're stuck in life because we're still holding on to lies.。
God comes along and he says, "Hey, I want to put something great in your hand.。
I want to use you for me, or I want to bless you in some way, or I want to do something。
in your life."。
And he can't put anything there because we're gripping tightly to something that's not true。
that we're still holding on to.。
And we've got to reject those lies and let go of them so that we can move forward with。
God.。
And understand this.。
This is really important to understand.。
The devil cannot stop anything that God is doing.。
Sometimes we get confused and we start to think that God and the devil are like rivals.。
They're not, okay?。
God is infinitely more powerful than every being in the universe, including the devil.。
So the devil has no equality with God in any way.。
The devil hates God and he wants to mess up anything God's trying to do.。
But he can't stop God.。
He doesn't have the power of God.。
And so the way that he tries to stop God and mess with his plans is just by lying to us。
and convincing us not to cooperate with what God is doing.。
The devil can't stop it.。
He can't fight a head-to-head battle against God and win, and he knows that.。
But he can lie to us and get us so distracted or so discouraged or so deceived that we。
head in a completely different direction and then it starts to thwart the plan of God in。
our life.。
And so that's what he wants to do.。
His main tactic in our lives is to lie to us.。
And so it's really important for us to identify those lies and reject them.。
To take them captive when they come into our mind, literally to say, "That's not true and。
I'm not going to believe that.。
I'm not going to let that idea just roll around in my head."。
And then replace those lies with God's truth.。
Say, "You know what?。
Not only am I not going to believe that, but I'm going to believe what is true."。
All right, here's a simple illustration for you to think about.。
God is great.。
God possesses all power in the universe, okay?。
That's a truth that we probably, most of us could easily agree with.。
It's throughout scripture.。
And we give mental assent to it.。
We may even submit to it and say, "Yes, God is great.。
That's why I'm a Christian.。
That's why I'm here in church, because I believe that God is great."。
I'm trying to respond to that, right?。
But here's a lie that comes against that truth.。
I have a problem in my life and I feel like the problem is going to destroy me or it's。
going to, you know, I'm super discouraged about it because I feel like there's no solution,。
right?。
When I'm thinking that way, I'm starting to believe that in some way God is not great。
enough for that problem.。
I'm starting to believe that, yeah, God may be great, but like this is a really big deal.。
God is great, but he's never met my boss.。
So you know, we're starting to believe that way.。
And so we have to reject that lie and say, "You know what?。
Yes, my boss is really challenging to deal with," or, "Yes, this situation is a mess,"。
or "Yes, I've made some bad choices and created some chaos in my life."。
But the truth is that God is bigger than this.。
And so I'm not going to listen to the lie that says, "Well, my life's going to be a。
disaster because of what happened or because of the mistakes I made or, you know, I'm going。
to fail at everything I try."。
I'm not going to listen to those lies because I know that the truth is that God has a power。
that's greater than anything else and he's at work in my life for his glory and for my。
good.。
We have to reject those lies, say, "I'm not going to believe that," and replace them with。
God's truth.。
Another simple one that's really huge is grace in our life, right?。
A lot of times, even though we give assent to the truth that, "Yes, Jesus loves me.。
I'm saved by grace.。
My sins are forgiven.。
I don't, my mistakes are not held against me," we can believe that, but lies still come。
in and accuse us.。
And in our mind, we feel so attacked and we feel like, "But I'm a miserable person and。
like I just fail so much and I'm not this enough or that enough or fill in the blank。
enough."。
And so we're discouraged because of that.。
It's the same thing there.。
We have to say, "Yes, I am certainly imperfect and I need God, but God's grace covers my。
sin.。
I'm forgiven.。
I'm not defined by those mistakes."。
As Pastor Mark read the passage earlier, "Nothing can separate me from the love of God."。
Those are truths and we need to bring those into our mind and say, "I'm not going to believe。
the lies that I'm just a failure and that I'm worthless and that everything's going。
to turn into disaster in my life.。
Those things are not true.。
I'm going to believe what God has said about me, that He loves me, that I'm forgiven, I'm。
accepted.。
He has a plan for my life and yes, it's not complete yet.。
I'm still a work in progress, but God is going to bring that to pass.。
He is going to complete it."。
That's what it means to begin to reject lies.。
If we're going to dwell in the truth, we've got to know the truth.。
We've got to soak in it.。
We've got to submit to it.。
We've got to respond to it, but we also have to start saying no to these lies that get。
thrown at us by our own desires, by the culture around us, and by the enemy.。
The devil wants to throw those lies at us.。
They're fiery darts that he shoots at us to try to bring us down.。
Then what I want us to see is what comes out of this.。
If we begin to dwell in the truth in the way that Jesus is talking, what comes out of it。
in our lives?。
What's the fruit of it?。
Well, the first thing that we see Jesus point out here is that as we dwell in the truth,。
we live as true disciples.。
We're really true followers of Jesus if we're remaining and living in His truth.。
You know what that's saying is that the staying power of our faith in Jesus is not a product。
of the ease of our pathway as a disciple, but it's a product of our connection to Jesus。
and God's truth.。
What I'm saying there is the reality and the truth of your followership of Jesus will not。
be a product of how hard or how easy your life is.。
It will be a product of how close you are to Jesus.。
If you're close to Him, you can go through a lot of really difficult things.。
You can come out on the other side and be healthy and be joyful and be full of all that。
God has for you in your life.。
Jesus here is not saying when He says, "If you abide in my word," think about that statement,。
"If you abide in my word."。
That implies that it's not easy to abide in His word.。
It implies that there's going to be some challenges.。
It implies that some people are not going to abide in His word and they're going to。
turn back.。
It implies that some people aren't going to follow His teaching and some people aren't。
going to understand.。
That statement in and of itself is saying, "Hey, it's not easy.。
It's not always going to be fun, but if you will remain, if you will dwell in His teaching,。
in His word, in His truth, then you'll be a true disciple."。
I think all of us desire to be a true disciple of Christ.。
That's why we're here.。
Jesus is saying this is the way to do it, to remain, to dwell, to live in His truth,。
in His word.。
And the other beautiful thing that we see is that as we dwell in the truth, we experience。
freedom.。
Jesus makes that clear in verse 32, "You shall know the truth and the truth shall make you。
free."。
Think about that.。
When we know the truth, when we know the truth about who we are, who God made us to be, the。
fact that we're forgiven, we're accepted, that we have a place in God's kingdom, God。
wants to use the gifts and the talents and the skills that He's given us to love and。
help others and to glorify Him.。
When we know that truth, what a free place to be.。
That can set us free from so much self-doubt and self-loathing and fear and worry.。
When we know that God's power is greater than our sin, and we begin to experience the freedom。
of getting away from the things that hold us back, the hang-ups, the addictions, the。
struggles, and God gives us victory, and we're getting closer and closer to Jesus, and we're。
walking away from our old self and saying, "Yeah, that used to be who I was.。
I used to struggle with that.。
I used to get angry all the time.。
I used to have these problems, but I don't because Jesus is changing me.。
I'm being transformed from the inside out."。
That's a place of beautiful freedom.。
A freedom from bondage, those things that have harmed us in the past.。
And ultimately, it's a freedom to get closer to Jesus to know more of His truth.。
It's like a spiral, except inverted in a healthy way, right?。
A lot of us sometimes spiral in unhealthy ways.。
I do that plenty of times.。
I start thinking about, "Oh, I messed this up," and then I realize, "Oh, I also messed。
that up."。
And then pretty soon, I'm like, "Oh, I messed everything up."。
We start spiraling down, right?。
But this is like a spiral going up in a healthy way, where as we know God's truth, and we。
get free from lies and unhealthy things, now we're able to believe more of the truth, and。
submit to more of the truth, and respond to more of the truth, and then we're able to。
learn something else that God wants to do in our lives, and submit to that, respond。
to that.。
And pretty soon, we're getting closer and closer to Jesus.。
We're getting healthier.。
God's doing a lot of just beautiful and amazing work in our lives.。
And that's what happens.。
As we dwell in the truth, we experience freedom.。
And all of us want that.。
All of us need that.。
And the other beautiful thing about this is that our world needs these type of people。
that we're describing, right?。
Think about people that you work with.。
Think about people that you go to school with, or that you are around, or even people in。
your own family.。
How much do some of those people need someone in their life who understands that they are。
loved by God, and who is able to love other people well, and who is not listening to all。
the lies of culture, and all the self-condemning things, but is able to see themselves in a。
healthy way, and respond to others in a healthy way?。
How much do the people around us need that?。
So as we dwell in the truth, God begins to use us.。
So that's my prayer for myself.。
It's my prayer for all of us.。
As we follow Jesus, as we become true disciples, that we would increasingly grow in embracing。
God's truth.。
We need to soak in God's word.。
If you're not doing that, maybe that's a starting place for you to say, "Okay, I'm。
familiar with the truth a little bit.。
I know some stuff, but I don't really spend that much time there."。
Maybe you need to start soaking.。
Maybe you need to kind of get immersed in it, spend some more time there.。
Maybe submission is the starting place for you.。
Maybe you say, "Well, yeah, I've been in the church a long time.。
I know a lot of stuff about scripture."。
But maybe there's just some areas where you know what you're supposed to do, but you're。
just not really doing it.。
You haven't submitted to it.。
You say, "Yeah, I know that's true, but I don't really want to mess with that part of。
my life."。
Maybe submission is the place for you.。
Maybe it's responding.。
Maybe you say, "I know a lot of truth, and I agree with it.。
I've submitted to it, but I just, I try, and I don't really follow through.。
It's hard for me."。
Maybe you need to respond.。
Maybe you need to reject lies.。
A lot of us get stuck there where we're trying to live out the truth, but we just keep holding。
on to some of those lies about who we are and about our own weakness and how we can't。
do anything.。
So we just get stuck.。
Maybe you need to start rejecting some of those lies.。
But may all of us really grow in living as genuine disciples and being set free by the。
truth that God has for us.。
Let's pray.。
God, I thank you so much for the truth.。
I thank you so much for who you are, that you, as the creator of the universe, you,。
the one who possesses all wisdom and knowledge, you care about us, and that you're willing。
to speak to us, and you're willing to tell us, "Hey, this is the way to go.。
This is the way to be healthy.。
This is the way to live your lives."。
Because without you, we wouldn't know that.。
We'd just be wandering around in the dark trying to make ourselves happy and make ourselves。
feel good.。
And most of us would be becoming increasingly miserable.。
So God, I thank you that you have spoken to us.。
You've given us truth in your word.。
And God, I pray that you would help us, especially right here in this room, as your followers,。
as disciples, help us to dwell in it, to remain in it, to soak in it, to spend our time in。
it, help us to submit to it, to respond to it, to apply it to our lives, help us to reject。
the lies that come against the truth and to replace them with your truth in our mind over。
and over again, as many times as we need to, to begin to believe the things that you've。
said about us and about our world and about our lives, and help us to get free from things。
that hold us back, help us to walk in freedom so that we can go boldly and confidently into。
the world and love others and point people to the freedom that we've found in Jesus.。
God, we just thank you and praise you for who you are and pray that these things would。
be more and more evident in our lives.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
