to finish the long series on Apostles Creed.。
All right, Apostles Creed.。
This is a long series.。
I think this is part number nine or 10.。
We began with the series and saying that。
the Creed of the Apostles are like。
roadmap of Christian faith.。
I remember when I was still in college。
and there were a bunch of guys and girls,。
brother and sisters, we grew up together。
in a local church and we were still。
in the college fellowship in my home church.。
Had quite a close friends and we grew up together.。
And back then we were all solid Christians,。
standing together, serving together,。
at least judging from what we said。
and how we act back then in those years.。
But as years go by, some have decided to quit.。
Some have decided to drop out of Christian faith altogether.。
But as I continue to discover,。
some of these friends quit。
because they reject the Christian faith.。
And as I continue to discover,。
they have some sort of truncated version。
or truncated understanding of what。
Christian faith is all about.。
For instance, I don't know what got into their thinking.。
One friend believes that Jesus is just a man,。
just a typical human being,。
and teaching mankind how to be good for some reason.。
But I find it interesting.。
And then the sort of Jesus that he believes in。
is simply a moral teacher.。
So it is understandable why there's no point。
to continue to follow Jesus, right?。
Because if Jesus is just a moral teacher,。
and what the heck does he do?。
What the heck does Christianity do to you, right?。
There are many moral teachers in the world or in history,。
right, and Jesus is one of them.。
And again, as I continue to discover,。
this is sort of a truncated, reduced understanding。
of what Christian faith is all about.。
Another friend of mine drops out of the Christian walk。
because life gets tough.。
Don't get me wrong, life does get tough.。
Different circumstances or difficulties。
happen along the way, and then sometimes we lost focus.。
And I think this friend of mine definitely presupposes。
that following Jesus means nothing。
but everything will go well, right?。
Now, if that version of Christianity shattered。
by different difficult circumstances in our lives,。
then definitely you will drop out, right?。
Now, again, I wanna focus on saying。
that this sort of understanding is problematic。
because following Jesus is being thought of。
as the skies are always blue and joy without sorrow。
and all that.。
And I tell you this, these kind of thinking。
are nothing but heresy, nothing but heresy, right?。
We are being blown by different cultural winds of our day.。
And the culture script has always been saying to us,。
hey, your life will go well because God is good.。
If your life doesn't go well,。
then there's some problem with God, right?。
There's some problem with your faith or anything like that.。
So you will automatically drop out, right?。
In our days and age, we love to pick and choose.。
We do, we love to pick and choose, right?。
I do that too, right?。
We go on Amazon, AZ, whatever that is, right?。
Recently, I was buying some item off Amazon。
and it took me quite a few minutes to pick and choose.。
I look at the customer view。
and I want to find the best deal I can get, right?。
It's for my benefit, right?。
That sort of mentality, if we bring to faith,。
it is problematic.。
And we think that sometimes we are tempted to think。
that the Bible, the Christian faith is like Whole Foods,。
right?。
Ever been to a Whole Foods?。
You just go in and, you know, to a section.。
You can pick the salad you want.。
You pick up some items or drop some items, right?。
Not interested, you just decide not to buy it.。
And I tell you, this is the biggest lie。
Satan is telling us.。
In the Bible, particularly in the Psalms,。
in the Old Testament, you see the poet, the believers,。
they struggle with their life circumstances.。
They struggle with suffering.。
They suffer from pains and sickness,。
but they never drop out.。
The only thing we know they are not dropping out。
because they, it's the fact that they are praying.。
The fact that they are struggling with God.。
They struggle mightily with God.。
When life is good, they praise God.。
When life is good, they give credit to God.。
But when life goes through a valley,。
they lament, they struggle, they complain。
until their faith is refined。
and their relationship with God is so polished.。
Have you ever seen a couple who are married for many years?。
Have you ever seen one of those couples, married couples?。
Married for so many years, okay?。
If you know them well, you know that their relationship。
is no more the kind of, you know,。
rosy, romantic stuff, right?。
They are, they passed that stage.。
I mean, they still have romance.。
They still have romance, but it's a different kind, right?。
The beginning phrase of the relationship。
of a married couple, probably just puppy love。
or something like that, right?。
It's very warm.。
I'm not going to talk down on those experiences.。
Those are great experiences.。
However, when the couple are committed to walk together,。
you find that their lives and their relationship。
is mature, right?。
And there you go, in years of experiencing。
the relationship together, walking together,。
you find husband and wife,。
they do have, you know, they do have mistakes.。
They sin against one another.。
They oppose one another.。
They fought, right?。
They argue.。
However, you see also the maturity of love,。
which means forgiveness, right?。
They learn to overlook each other's shortcomings.。
And the relationship is refined and continue to grow.。
And that sort of relationship is a great picture。
of our relationship with God, right?。
Our spiritual journey with God is exactly like that.。
We grow in the midst of difficulties.。
We grow in good times and bad times.。
And we grow also in our ability to discern,。
to evaluate things on earth,。
biblically and spiritually.。
And we grow in our ability to take on things that matter.。
As my relationship with God continues to grow,。
I know that there is something that really matter,。
eternal value, something of eternity,。
something that does not change and will continue to grow.。
And that is the most important thing。
that matters in my life.。
You know, I grew up, as I said,。
I grew up in my good years, you know, in college.。
I lost some friends, you know,。
but what the hell, I don't care, right?。
I know, I get to know other new friends.。
I get to know other people, right?。
It's like, it's like traveling on a train, right?。
There are some people who enter into the car。
and then some, you know, along the way, they exit the car.。
A few of them stay together until the destination.。
You know, people come and people go,。
but what is most important in your relationship with God。
is that you need to discern and you need to stick to。
what is most important.。
What really matters in your life, right?。
Romans 8.。
Romans 8.。
It gives us the biggest possible roadmap。
of our Christian journey.。
This is the biggest, like 50,000 feet above bird eye view。
of what Christian journey is all about,。
what God is doing in your life.。
Romans 8, 29.。
For God knew his people in advance.。
He chose them to become like his son,。
so that his son, Jesus Christ,。
would be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters.。
And having chosen them, he called them to come to him.。
And having called them to come to him,。
he gave them right standing with himself.。
And having given them right standing with himself,。
God also gave them his glory.。
Now, this is a bird eye view。
of what your relationship with God should look like.。
All right?。
Everything aside, all right?。
Oh, whether I have a good time or bad time,。
whether I have good buddies to walk with me,。
it's not even in this picture.。
God knew his people in advance,。
chose them to become his son.。
Now, we can call this sanctification.。
You know, when you started to follow Jesus,。
in definitely in different circumstances,。
some people come to Jesus in their difficult times.。
Some of them, you know, mountaintop experience,。
they come to know Christ himself.。
The process is still the same.。
The process of sanctification,。
sanctifying your life, right?。
God chose you.。
To be like his son.。
It's a long, lifelong process。
that you will continue to become more and more like who?。
Well, not your old self.。
Have you ever checked the mirror recently?。
Look at yourself.。
Have you changed?。
You know, a couple of years ago, many years ago,。
definitely you change, right?。
You know, I got more, you know, gray hair。
and, you know, wrinkles in here and there, you know?。
No matter what I do to myself.。
But, you know, I continue to grow older.。
But in the process that God has launched in your life,。
when you decide to profess that Jesus is my Lord,。
Jesus is the Christ, Jesus is my savior,。
and he died for my sin,。
and he rose from the dead for my hope,。
I kick in, God kick in.。
The lifelong process of sanctification。
is a process of sanctifying you,。
making you like who?。
Like his son, right?。
Hopefully at the end of the process,。
you will become more like his one and only son,。
Jesus Christ.。
So that his son will be the firstborn,。
the one who get the glory among the sisters and brothers.。
And God chose them and he called them to come to him.。
Having called them,。
he also gave them right standing with himself.。
Now that is what we call justification.。
You are justified.。
You became like Jesus Christ.。
God sees you just like he sees his one and only son,。
because you believe in the salvation, right?。
You believe in Jesus Christ.。
And that this process is not a long-term process.。
It's a punctual, one-time act.。
God acts in your life,。
and you became his child.。
You became his son or daughter.。
That is justification.。
That you stand before God and declare sinless.。
You declare totally forgiven.。
And that is eternal life.。
That is a one-time punctual event.。
When you are in Christ,。
God sees you as he sees his perfect son.。
Now, can you imagine the timeline, okay?。
Timeline of the Christian faith.。
All the way to the left, all the way to the left.。
All right, your left.。
It's justification, all right?。
You became a Christian.。
You became God's daughter or God's son.。
That is one-time justification.。
You stand justified,。
all because Jesus Christ has done for you。
on the cross and in the empty tomb.。
And then the timeline goes,。
the lifelong process of sanctification,。
that you will become more and more like his own son.。
Just like this.。
You start with justification, boom.。
And then there was up and down, up and down, you know,。
but in general, you're going up.。
In general, you're going up to heaven or the new world.。
That is the lifelong process that we are in right now,。
process of justification.。
And then at the end of it is glorification.。
Notice what he said, Paul said at the last phrase,。
"Having given them right standing justification,。
"God gave them his glory."。
One day when we see Jesus face to face, all right,。
either Jesus come back in his second coming。
or you go to Jesus, all right,。
because of whatever, you know, you die, okay?。
You die.。
And then your spirit will go, go to the presence of God.。
And one day, you know, the last two chapters of the Bible,。
the new world, the new heaven and new earth,。
when heaven and earth joined together。
in the state of glorification, the perfect state,。
there's no pain, there's no sickness,。
there's no homework, all right?。
There's no frustration anymore.。
Then you kick in the new world,。
the new heaven and new earth.。
Now, there are different,。
different funny understandings of what heaven is like,。
you know, what new heaven and new earth is like.。
Some people would think,。
"Oh, probably we just sing and make music 24/7," right?。
That's kind of boring, right?。
Especially if you are not musically talented, right?。
Unless, I guess, you know,。
in the last process of glorification,。
you resurrected and you got the glorified body。
just like Jesus had on the third day,。
then you probably become the best bass player。
or whatever, right?。
But still, I mean, making music 24/7 is kind of boring, right?。
But you know, you need to understand,。
you need to understand new heaven and new earth。
is Genesis 1 and 2,。
we fulfill, you know?。
Fulfill right before your eyes.。
Remember what Genesis 1 and 2 is all about?。
When God created humanity,。
His image bearers, all of us,。
God said to them,。
"Go and take control and rule the world for me.。
"You represent my image, my glorious image on earth,。
"and you're gonna bring my order to the rest of the cosmos."。
That is Genesis 1 and 2, right?。
Of course, it didn't go well, right?。
Genesis 3, man proclaim himself to be God, right?。
And kicks in the entire grand story of the Bible.。
But God never forsaken His world,。
His creation, our creation, you know, our world.。
He set himself a program to redeem the whole world,。
to bring humanity back to Him。
through His son, Jesus Christ.。
And now we are part of it, right?。
So the new heaven, new earth, what will it look like?。
It's not just playing music, saying,。
"Hallelujah 24/7."。
"No, no, I don't wanna go there."。
It's gonna be a glorified state。
that will bring God's holy, sacred, beautiful order。
to the rest of the cosmos, all right?。
I don't know if there's a space exploration。
in heaven and new earth, but whatever.。
There's no death, there's no pain, there's no sickness.。
All you do in this life, think about it.。
You know, you all go to work, right?。
Think of moments in your work。
that you find so much fulfillment.。
You find so much fulfillment.。
What is that?。
Ask yourself, what is that?。
That after, you know, your labor, your sweats,。
you work on something and you finish something.。
You finish a product, you finish maybe homework, okay?。
Maybe your assignment or something.。
And then you get a sense of satisfaction or fulfillment.。
That is who you are, right?。
You're so gifted in this area, no matter what that is.。
That sense of fulfillment multiplies it infinitely.。
That is what new heaven and new earth will look like.。
That you will be exploring and extending。
the order of God to other areas.。
Take control of other areas.。
You know, I always remind some of our accountants。
or finance people in my church.。
I always ask them, you know, have you ever realized,。
you know, God's original creation。
is the creation that has potential to multiply.。
Just as when you read through it, you know,。
seed within seeds, God creates trees and the plants。
and the animals and they can multiply.。
Things are meant to be multiplied by human hands.。
You know, I think last hundred years,。
the biggest discovery for ancient history。
is that when you pick some, when you take some wild grain,。
take some wild grain, and then you work it。
and you cultivate it and you take the seed out of it,。
human hands, plant it, and then it grows.。
The biggest discovery is that through a human process,。
wild grain becomes better, right?。
You know, the rice, the white rice that we eat, okay?。
I don't eat that much now, but why is it so soft?。
Why is it so rich?。
Because it's process and process of human effort。
being added into the creation, and the creation multiplies.。
The value becomes higher.。
Cultivated grain is more expensive than the wild grain, right?。
Because there is human process involved in it.。
And that is the process of multiplication.。
That is what God originally meant us to do.。
The original creation, Genesis 1 and 2,。
and the last two chapters, the new heaven and new earth,。
it's not a static concept.。
It's the holy, sacred, dynamic.。
We, as we deem people in Christ,。
we will participate in the new heaven and new earth。
to explore and to invent, you know,。
to get to know this amazing creation。
and to get to know God himself, and God is infinite, right?。
So I hope I will continue to teach in heaven and new earth.。
And you will continue to do Bible study。
in heaven and new earth.。
And whatever you do, and God made you to who you are, right?。
Whether you do a labor work or those,。
some guys doing PhD researching or something, right?。
Making molecules, those, I don't understand those stuff.。
But we will continue to engage in the creative process,。
you know, bringing God's order to the rest of the cosmos.。
That is the bird eye view of what it is,。
what it is all about to follow Jesus.。
Justification and lifelong process of sanctification,。
and then finally, the glorification, all right?。
So don't get, don't retire yet.。
All right, new heaven, new earth is not for retirees.。
We continue to work without frustration, right?。
And again, the apostles,。
we end with Romans 8,。
is telling us that once we kick in。
to that relationship with Jesus, it's a dance with God.。
It's a dance with God.。
We dance with the music of the Holy Spirit.。
And sometimes the music sounds bright and happy.。
Sometimes the melody sound sad, lamentation.。
That is the long process of ups and downs。
in our sanctification, but it's an eternal dance.。
It's an eternal dancing with God.。
A long-term process, a long-term journey。
of discovering God and being transformed。
into His Son's image.。
To say to a 15-year-old that you are okay。
with the way you are is the utmost disrespect to humanity.。
Let me say that again.。
To say to a teenager or younger or older, or even you,。
you are okay, perfectly okay with the way you are.。
It's disrespect of God's creation.。
You are not okay with the way you are right now.。
Agree?。
You cannot avoid the need and the joy of transformation.。
God is transforming you and shaping you.。
That is the mark of maturity.。
The mark of maturity is to say to yourself in the mirror,。
I'm not okay with the way I am today。
because the Holy Spirit is shaping me constantly.。
And I need to let God's grace to work in my life.。
Let the Word of God continue to shape me。
and challenge me to shape me,。
to transform me into the image of His Son.。
And the Apostles' Creed is challenging us to aim for that,。
to aim high in the kingdom of God.。
You are not okay with the way you are today, no way.。
You will be transformed and let God transform you.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit.。
That's the first section of the Creed.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit.。
Have you realized this is the new creation?。
When the Spirit comes upon you,。
when the Holy Spirit is making you God's children,。
you are a new creation.。
The Holy Universal Church, the Holy Catholic Church,。
the Chameleon of Saints speak to us。
that once the Holy Spirit is taking you。
into the kingdom of God,。
the church becomes your new family.。
And that new family never change.。
The earthly family will change.。
The configuration of it, you know,。
it will not last forever, right?。
Family relationship will not last forever.。
You understand?。
Someday, my son is not my son, right?。
And I'm not his father, someday, okay?。
This family, earthly relationship will not last forever.。
Right?。
To make it last forever as if it really lasts forever。
is actually idolatry.。
To make it idol in our lives.。
It will change if we transform so much。
that it will be glorified, right?。
And the fulfillment that we have in the family relationship。
will exceed how we feel.。
Will exceed the sense of fulfillment we have right now.。
In the new day, in the new heaven and new earth,。
it will be so glorified.。
So the church, the Universal Church,。
the capital C Church is the new family.。
And then the Chameleon of Saints,。
I think we talk about it, is the new relationship.。
When we are in Christ, okay?。
When we are in Christ,。
whether you're a Christian struggling with your faith。
so much or some other, you know,。
having a mountaintop experience,。
praise God every single day.。
If we are in Christ, we have this new relationship,。
the Chameleon of Saints, like togetherness, right?。
Somehow being united together.。
As we worship today, I don't know if you have noticed。
one of the songs, One Voice, right?。
Now, I didn't plan that,。
and the worship leader picked that song.。
The song talks about some sort of unity.。
That kind of unity goes beyond our ethnic unity,。
our political identity.。
It goes beyond that.。
In Christ, we find that new communion, new unity.。
The forgiveness of sin, the new relationship with God.。
Chameleon of Saints is the horizontal relationship,。
human being to human being, question to question,。
new chameleon of saints.。
And the forgiveness of sins is vertical.。
So we look upon God and say, "We are justified,。
"not because of our own effort, our own work,。
"but what Christ has done in your life。
"that made you someone who is new before God,。
"as if Jesus Christ, the one and only perfect Son."。
And then finally, I believe in the resurrection of the body,。
the new existence.。
God kicks in the new existence in our lives。
when we profess the name of Jesus.。
You know, you realize that?。
Yeah, I know my body continues to decay,。
your body too, right?。
We get old and we get sick, we get COVID.。
We are weakened, right?。
You know, it used to be I could do 70 pushups,。
just like that.。
Or you could do that.。
I can't do it anymore.。
Right, now I even have struggle with 20, right?。
We decay.。
However, we have the hope of getting the new body,。
the new existence, just like the third day of Jesus Christ.。
He walked out of the empty tomb.。
He conquered death for us.。
He conquered sin and darkness and Satan for us.。
No more forces of darkness,。
no more forces of deterioration can go upon you.。
And this is the new existence that we have.。
And we have that hope in future.。
Whether we see Jesus face to face。
or in the new heaven and new earth,。
we'll get a new body.。
A lot of people think that, okay, once we die,。
our spirit will go like floating around, you know,。
just being creepy and all that.。
No, that's not the biblical picture.。
The Bible tells us that we are going somewhere,。
eschatology, going some end,。
and the end is the glorified body.。
All God's people will share in Jesus Christ.。
And lastly, the Creed says,。
I believe life everlasting.。
That is the new world.。
Eternal life is not something。
that we experience after we die.。
Eternal life is the experience that we have once。
you come to know Christ.。
When you come to know Jesus, that is eternal life.。
And God is with you.。
And you live in the presence of God.。
That's why the Bible continues again and again。
telling you, you need to be obedient.。
You need to listen to the word of God.。
You need to walk with the spirit。
so that you can live in the presence of God, right?。
And that is conditional.。
I know God's love is unconditional in some sense,。
but it's also conditional.。
If you want to experience the power and the joy,。
the peace, the hope that we have in Jesus Christ,。
well, there is condition.。
We need to be committed to worship Him.。
John 10, 10.。
Let me close with this verse.。
Jesus is talking to the Jewish people in the New Testament,。
to the people of God.。
The thief comes only to steal and kill and to destroy.。
I, Jesus said, came that you may have life。
and have it abundantly, abundantly, you know?。
Like overflowing in your life, right?。
All the good things of the kingdom,。
the joy, the peace, the patience, the hope,。
and all those good stuff will be so overflowing。
in the cup of your life.。
You cannot bear to contain them.。
It has to overflow out of your life。
and you need to share with other people, right?。
You need to, you know, have other people experience it.。
It's shareable, right?。
And it has to be shared.。
There is life abundant.。
In Old Testament term, this is New Testament,。
Gospel of John, in Old Testament term, it's shalom.。
Shalom.。
Even the Israeli Jews today will meet each other,。
see each other, and they will say the first word,。
not hi, not hello, but shalom.。
Shalom.。
What is shalom?。
Shalom is not merely the absence of war.。
It's not just the absence of frustration,。
absence of death, all the bad things.。
It's not just the absence of the negative things.。
Shalom is positively means all the great things。
that we have in the kingdom,。
all the great attributes of God that we can share,。
we can experience, that is shalom, right?。
Quite meaningful, you know, to greet each other,。
to say shalom.。
I wish you well.。
Your body, your spirit, your mind, your emotion,。
everything in your life will be so blessed。
that you can have shalom, right?。
That is a foretaste, a foretaste of the new world,。
the new heaven and new earth.。
Well, I pray that God will bless you in such a way。
that you will continue to experience the foretaste。
of the banquet, foretaste of the great things to come,。
the greatest thing to come.。
Nothing the world can offer you that,。
only in Christ we have this hope.。
Let us all pray together.。
Father, we give thanks because you are our great God.。
And thank you for the hope that we have in the kingdom,。
the eternal hope that we have,。
that that hope challenges and conquers death,。
and conquers the dark power of Satan and sin.。
And I pray that this hope will be,。
will sink in into the very core of our being,。
that we'll continue to look forward。
to this new heaven and new earth, this life eternal.。
And thank you that we are justified in Christ.。
And thank you for your spirit being sent to be with us,。
to dwell in us, to sanctify us,。
to help us to walk and follow you.。
And I pray that one day we look forward。
to the day of glorification,。
that we can experience kingdom in the fullness.。
And right now, no matter where we are,。
no matter what circumstances we are facing,。
we get the foretaste of the glorious heaven.。
That someday we'll see you face to face,。
and your people will continue to worship you, to serve you.。
And thank you for the church that we have,。
the community of faith that we share,。
the communion of saints.。
And I pray that this sense of unity。
will continue to grow your church, to grow your family,。
that your church will be your people,。
empowered to glorify your name.。
In Christ's name, we pray, amen.。
Well, lastly, two minutes, I want to.。
