- Good morning, UV.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Testing, testing.。
Okay.。
All right.。
So when you think about God,。
what are some of the image or words。
that comes to your mind?。
Is he a wrathful God, or is he a loving father?。
Is he a mighty warrior, or a humble servant?。
Is he someone that is quick to punish,。
like a parking attendant that is always out there。
roaming the streets and will not hesitate。
to give out a parking ticket,。
even though your meter only expires for a few seconds?。
Or is he slow to anger, like a teacher。
that is always patient with his students。
despite all the repeated mistakes and questions from them?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
A.W. Tozer famously said, "What comes into our mind。
"when we think about God is the most important things。
"about us."。
And so what he means here is that the way we view God。
actually shapes the way we live.。
So let me give you a quick example.。
If we think of God as a vengeful God。
that is always out there to get us,。
we will probably live in constant fear。
of doing something wrong or mess up, right?。
But on the flip side, if we see God as a loving father,。
when we mess up, he will be the first person。
that we run towards and ask for forgiveness, right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So this morning we will continue our sermon series。
in the Book of Judges.。
And so far we have looked at the double introduction。
sections that sets us up on the historical narrative。
of Israel up to this point.。
That Israel, they was in the promised land already,。
but they failed to completely drive out the inhabitants。
in the land of Canaan as the Lord has commanded them.。
And we see that as a result of that,。
the idol worship culture of the Canaanites,。
they slowly seep into Israel.。
And these people of Israelites,。
they turn to worship these false Canaanites gods。
instead of worshiping Yahweh himself.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Moreover, the introduction section also gives us。
a framework on Israel's spiritual and moral downfall。
that we will see repeating itself in the cyclical patterns。
towards rock bottom for Israel both as a nation。
and as God's chosen people.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
However, while Judges highlights God's people。
at its worst, more importantly,。
I think it also show us God's response to human's actions.。
And through God's response to Israel's rebellion。
and disobedience, we get a clearer picture of who he is。
and what he is like.。
And so today we will go into the main section。
of the book of Judges and look at the story。
of a judge called Ehud.。
Ehud is probably a lesser known judge,。
but through this narrative,。
we will explore this particular character。
about God together, that is his holy love.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But before we dive into it,。
just a few notes on this main section。
of the book of Judges.。
The main section of Judges has six major judge stories。
based upon this cycle.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So a quick review of the components of these cycles.。
It usually begins like this.。
Israel does evil in the eyes of the Lord。
and the Lord will gives or sells them。
into the hands of their oppressors.。
And Israel will serve their oppressors。
for a certain amount of years.。
And after that, Israel will cry out to the Lord。
and the Lord will raise up for them a deliverer or a judge.。
And the oppressor is subdued。
and the land has rest and peace for a certain amount of years。
before the cycle repeats itself again.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And as we dive into this narrative cycle of the major judge,。
I want us to keep in mind that。
these individual narratives of the judge。
of Othniel, of Ehud, of Deborah, of Gideon,。
Jethta and Samson,。
they should not be read in isolation from one another.。
But together they actually make up a long。
and complex narrative movement。
that shows Israel's slow descents。
into religious apostasy and moral downfall.。
One that is being introduced already。
in the double introduction section.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the first few major judge will be mostly positive,。
including our judge for today, Ehud.。
But the further we actually go into the book,。
the more issues we find with these judges.。
And this is actually being reflected。
in the writings of judges as well.。
The further we go into the main cycle section,。
the less consistent each of these components。
appears on the narrative.。
And when we come to the last judge of Samson,。
only the first three components were left.。
And they didn't even cry out to the Lord at that point,。
which again shows the chaos。
that Israel has descended into.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, so with that said,。
let's dive into our passage on Ehud。
from Judges 3 today and look at what it means。
for God to be a God of holy love.。
And more specifically, we will look at God's holy love。
from the way he responds to our human action.。
So let's look at verse 12 together.。
It says, "Again, the Israelites did evils。
"in the eyes of the Lord.。
"And because they did this evil,。
"the Lord gave Aglon, king of Moab, power over Israel.。
"Getting the Ammonites and Amalekites to join him,。
"Aglon came and attacked Israel,。
"and they took possessions of the city of Palms.。
"The Israelites, they were subject to Aglon,。
"king of Moab, for 18 years."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
, okay.。
So we will first focus on God's holiness this morning,。
especially in the way he disciplines。
and punish his own people.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So if you notice, verse 12 begins with the word again.。
Why again?。
Because this is not the first time Israel has done evil。
in the eyes of the Lord.。
Earlier in the chapter, in the first judges story。
in verse seven, we read that the Israelites did evils。
in the eyes of the Lord.。
They forgot the Lord their God。
and served the Baals and the Asherahs.。
So the again here highlights that this is actually。
a repeated offense from Israel.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And how did God respond to it?。
We see that the Lord gave Aglon, king of Moab,。
power over Israel.。
Aglon came and attacked Israel。
and they took possessions of the city of Palms.。
And the Israelites, they were subject to king of Moab。
for 18 years.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
A lot of times when we read a passage of God。
punishing his people like this,。
we can be tempted to think of God as a wrathful。
and vengeful God.。
And if we make a mistake, he will be out there to punish us。
like the parking attendant that is always out there。
to ticket people.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
This even leads some people to conclude。
that the God of the Old Testament,。
who is often portrayed as a God of wrath,。
cannot be the same as the God of the New Testament,。
who is usually portrayed as a God of love.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
For example, in the second century,。
an early Christian theologian named Martian of Sinai,。
he taught that the creator God of the Old Testament。
was a different and inferior God,。
harsh, legalistic, and judgmental.。
In contrast, he taught that the God revealed by Jesus。
in the New Testament was a higher and more supreme God,。
purely loving, gracious, and merciful.。
And this eventually led him to actually reject。
the Old Testament as it only revealed。
a lesser and inferior God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so for people like Martians and any modern manifestation。
of this kind of thinking, it's not surprising that,。
in the early Christian tradition,。
the Old Testament was a God of love.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so for people like Martians and any modern manifestation。
of this kind of thinking and belief about God,。
there is a clear misunderstanding about who God is。
and what He is like.。
Yes, God is love.。
Yes, God is holy.。
But God is not wrath.。
Wrath is not an essential attribute of God,。
but wrath is a rightful attribute of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Not an essential attribute of God,。
but wrath is a rightful expression of God's holiness。
in response to evil.。
To put it another way, wrath is not part of God's character,。
but when God sees evils,。
His holiness compels Him to respond in righteous anger。
because God hates evil.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so this is what we can learn about God。
in His response towards human beings.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so this is what we can learn about God。
in His response towards human weakness here.。
In essence, God is a holy God and He cannot tolerate evil,。
not even just a little bit of it.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
More importantly, God's holiness usually goes hand in hand。
with His love as well.。
Just as a loving parent who would not spare the rod。
of discipline towards their children,。
God's discipline or punishment towards His children。
always comes from a place of love。
in order to bring them back to Himself as well.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And when it comes to God's punishment,。
there's always a limit and a greater purpose behind it。
because God doesn't just punish people。
for the sake of punishment alone.。
You can think of God's punishment as more like a timeout。
that a parent would give to a children.。
This is because ultimately, His judgment,。
His punishment, and His disciplines,。
they all comes from His character as a holy God,。
as a loving father, and the perfect judge.。
And so when God acts,。
all of these characters act in perfect unison.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so this is what we see in our passage here.。
For 18 years, Israel was powerless。
against Aglon, king of Moab,。
because the Lord gave Aglon power over Israel。
as a way of disciplining his own people.。
And finally, after 18 years of oppressions。
under the hands of Moab,。
Israel finally shows some signs of repentance.。
And we'll see how God responds.。
So let's look at verse 15 together.。
Again, the Israelites cried out to the Lord,。
and He gave them a deliverer, Ehud,。
a left-handed man, the son of Gerar the Benjamite.。
The Israelites sent him with tribute。
to Aglon, king of Moab.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And this brings me to the second focus for today.。
That is God's love in His deliverance.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So while God's holiness compels Him。
to respond to the wickedness of His people with wrath,。
His love, on the other hand,。
compels Him to respond to the crying out。
with mercy as well.。
And so when the Israelites cried out to the Lord。
after 18 years of oppressions。
under king Aglon of Moab,。
He gave them a deliverer, Ehud.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And we didn't look at the story of the first judge,。
but compared to the first judge, Othniel,。
who is a leader and a warrior,。
Ehud, he's a very different kind of judge.。
We learned that he is a left-handed man,。
or more literally, he is a man restricted。
in his right hand, which is the dominant hand。
in that culture.。
And so this gives him the appearance。
of weakness in some sense.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
, moreover, Ehud is also not a leader in Israel,。
but he's just someone being tasked with the job。
of bringing tribute to Aglon king of Moab.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And yet through a series of trickery and satire,。
we will see that the Lord will actually use。
this seemingly unassuming person, Ehud,。
to deliver Israel from the hand of Aglon, king of Moab.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So let's go through the rest of our story.。
Verse 16, "Now Ehud had made a double-edged sword。
"about a cubit long, which he strapped。
"to his right thigh under his clothing.。
"He presented the tribute to Aglon, king of Moab,。
"who was a very fat man.。
"And after Ehud had presented the tribute,。
"he sent on their way those who had carried it.。
"But on reaching the stone images near Gilgal,。
"he himself went back to Aglon and said,。
"Your Majesty, I have a secret message for you.。
"And the king said to his attendants,。
"Leave us, and they all left."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So notice the satire here.。
The author told us in verse 17 that Aglon,。
he was a very fat man.。
And this is not fat shaming,。
but this is probably the results of him。
getting fat and over the tribute。
that he actually extorted from Israel。
over the past 18 years.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then starting on verse 20,。
everything went into slow motion.。
See, Ehud then approached him。
while he was sitting alone in the upper room of his palace。
and said, "I have a message from God for you."。
And as the king rose from his seat,。
Ehud reached with his left hand,。
drew the sword from his right thigh,。
and plunged it into the king's belly.。
Even the handle sank in after the blade。
and his bowels discharged.。
Ehud did not pull out the sword。
and the fat closed in over it.。
Then Ehud went out to the porch,。
he shut the doors of the upper room behind him。
and locked them.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So here we actually see another trickery being revealed.。
Ehud, he is not just delivering a tribute。
from the oppressed Israel,。
but he is God's means of deliverance。
for the people of Israel.。
Ehud, he is not just a messenger with a secret message,。
but he is a messenger of God's judgment over Aglam.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so even though Aglam had died at this point,。
Israel's deliverance is not complete yet.。
In the next few words,。
we see more trickery and satire being played out.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
We see here because Ehud,。
he locked the door before he left the room.。
So when the king's servant came,。
they thought that their king was just having his time。
using the bathroom.。
So instead of going in and checking on their king,。
they just waited outside.。
And the smell of Aglam's bowel discharge。
probably contributed to this as well.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So while the servants waited and waited outside,。
this gave Ehud time to actually escape。
and get back to his own people。
to rally them for the final blow.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So let's pick up our story again from verse 28.。
Follow me, Ehud ordered,。
for the Lord has given Moab, your enemy, into your hands.。
So they followed him down。
and took possessions of the forts of the Jordan。
that led to Moab,。
and they allowed no one to cross over.。
At that time, they struck down about 10,000 Moabites,。
all vigorous and strong, not one escaped.。
That day, Moab was made subject to Israel,。
and the land had peace for 80 years.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so here we see a total reversal of the roles。
and a complete deliverance of Israel。
from the hands of their oppressors.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So while in verse 13, we saw that Eglon attacked Israel。
and took possessions of the city of Palms,。
here in verse 28 and 29,。
Ehud and his men actually struck down。
about 10,000 Moabite warriors,。
and they took possessions of the forts of Jordan。
that led to Moab.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And while in verse 14, the Israelites,。
they were subject to Eglon, king of Moab, for 18 years,。
here in verse 30, we saw that Moab actually became subject。
to Israel that day,。
and the Israelites and the land finally had peace。
for 80 years.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so once again, this show us that God's holiness。
and his love always work side by side in his rescues.。
On one hand, God is holy and he is righteous.。
So when his people sin against him,。
he cannot let sin go unpunished.。
But on the other hand, God is also love.。
He understands that our human condition。
and our need for a deliverer,。
to deliver us not just from the enemies that is around us,。
but more importantly, from the enemy that is within us,。
that is our sinful and rebellious nature.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And God's holy love is like a thread。
that weaves through the entire story of the Bible.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And God's love is like a thread。
that weaves through the entire story of the Bible.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And God's love is like a thread。
that weaves through the entire story of the Bible.。
We see his holy love in the way that he dealt with。
the very first human couples, Adam and Eve.。
Because Adam and Eve sin,。
they have to be casted out from the garden of Eden。
because sin can have no presence in the midst of God,。
in the midst of a holy God.。
But it is also out of love that they were banished。
because they would literally die。
if they continue to stay in Eden.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And this theme of God's holy love。
carries through from Genesis to Exodus,。
into the promised land,。
and eventually to Israel's exiles and the return.。
And finally, God's holy love reaches climax。
in the person of Jesus at the cross.。
At the cross, we see that the wrath of God。
was being poured out on the sins of the world.。
And yet it wasn't us who had to bear。
the consequences of our own sins,。
but it was Jesus, the son of God himself,。
taking on the sins of the world,。
satisfying the wrath of the Father。
because of His love for us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so as we enter into a new year,。
wherever you are in your journey with God,。
I want to encourage all of us to take our next steps,。
to grow in having a right understanding of God。
as the embodiment of holy love。
so that we can have deeper trust in Him.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So let's pray.。
Lord, we carry with us all kinds of false images。
and wrong ideas when it comes to you all the time.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And as we enter into a new year,。
would you remind us again with the truth。
that you are a holy and loving God?。
You did not spare your own son,。
but gave your only son, Jesus,。
in order to deliver us from our sinfulness。
and to give us eternal life.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Help us to not take this gift for granted。
and teach us to live a life of repentance。
and a life of trust through the power of your Holy Spirit.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And in your holy name we pray, amen.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
All right, brothers and sisters,。
thank you for joining us for the first Sunday of the year.。
You guys are dismissed, so go in peace in your love.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
