All right.。
All right.。
Here we go.。
Well, good morning, everyone.。
For those, I recognize a few faces here this morning.。
And for those who are here from college and all that, my name is Tommy Lee.。
And just a little bit about me, I'm born and raised here in Chicago.。
I'm 46 years old.。
My parents immigrated here to Chicago in 1972.。
So I lived in the Chinatown Bridgeport area all my life.。
I still remember when Bridgeport was, I was one of only five Chinese students who had。
ever been to a college.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
And I was a freshman in high school.。
I still remember when she first started.。
I still remember when she first started.。
I went to Washington University in St. Louis.。
I went to Washington University in St. Louis.。
I thought I was going to be a doctor.。
I thought I was going to be a doctor.。
Because a lot of times, when you have Asian parents,。
Because a lot of times, when you have Asian parents,。
my parents gave me a choice.。
my parents gave me a choice.。
Doctor, lawyer, engineer.。
Doctor, lawyer, engineer.。
Pick one.。
Pick one.。
WashU gave me a full ride,。
WashU gave me a full ride,。
so I guess I'm going to be a doctor.。
so I guess I'm going to be a doctor.。
After a first semester, I realized,。
After a first semester, I realized,。
yeah, I'm not going to be a doctor.。
yeah, I'm not going to be a doctor.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
I was going to be a lawyer.。
Many of you guys are familiar with Hebrews 11, the Hall of Faith.。
It talks about all of the Old Testament heroes that the writers of Hebrews tells us belong。
into this Hall of Faith.。
It gives us the names in order belonging to the Hall of Faith.。
There's Abel.。
There's Enoch.。
Noah was in the Hall of Faith.。
Abraham was in the Hall of Faith.。
Isaac was in the Hall of Faith.。
It talks about Jacob.。
It went down to Joseph and Moses.。
It even goes to the people who crossed the Red Sea.。
Rahab.。
And then the writer of Hebrews says, "For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak,。
Samson."。
How in the world Samson made it into the Hall of Faith?。
I will never know.。
Japheth, David, Samuel, and the prophets.。
Missing from that list is Daniel.。
Another omission for some reason, Daniel didn't make it to this list.。
Solomon did not make it to this list.。
The brightest of all of the kings of Israel, but yet at the same time, he had a lot of。
heart motives.。
He could not overcome the stain of lust.。
Solomon was omitted, and Elijah was not named in this list.。
Why?。
Think through a little bit about that.。
In verse 35 though, as he finishes this list, he does mention one thing.。
He says, "Included in this list are the women who received back their dead by resurrection."。
Clearly referring to the story that we're going to look at today with the widow's son.。
So now you're sitting there, you didn't tell me, you forgot to mention Elijah, but you。
pinpoint the action or the event in which he raises the widow's son from the dead, Elijah。
raises, and you add that story in there.。
What were you trying to say to us?。
I have some theories, and we're going to go back to it at the end of the sermon once we。
look at this particular story.。
And here's the big ideas we look at verses 17 to 24 today.。
Our main idea, our big idea is this.。
Miracles unfold in the hands of humble hearts.。
God uses and performs miracles in the hands of people with humble hearts.。
Miracles unfold in the hands of humble hearts.。
Let's take a look at 1 Kings chapter 17.。
And he writes this in verse 17, "After this, the son of man, the mistress of the house,。
became ill, and his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him."。
Verse 17, it tells us, "After this, the son of the woman."。
After this, what happened in verses 1 through 17?。
For those who don't remember, let me just give you a quick recap beginning in verse。
17 to where we are right now.。
Remember the first appearance of Elijah.。
Who did we say Elijah was?。
His name really means, "My God is Jehovah."。
El meaning God, Jah meaning Jehovah, I connects the two, Elijah.。
My God is Jehovah.。
Where is Elijah from?。
He was the Tishbit of Tishbi in Gilead.。
What does that mean?。
Well, Tishbi is somewhere in Gilead.。
We know where Gilead is in the map at that point in time.。
But no one knew where Tishbi was.。
This Tishbit from Tishbi in Gilead, what does that mean?。
He came from obscurity.。
No one came.。
So this guy, this Tishbit of Tishbi, where no one ever knew where he comes from, gets。
and has a meeting with the king.。
It happens over in the first three verses, King Ahab of the northern kingdom.。
Post David, post Solomon, the whole thing went to disaster.。
You know, soon separate into northern kingdom, where Elijah, the book of Obadiah, Queen Jezebel。
is at, and then the southern kingdom, where Israel, where Mark is right now, a lot of。
times Israel, Jerusalem, all those guys, that's where Nehemiah, Ezra, all of that takes place.。
But we're focusing on King Ahab of the northern kingdom.。
Well, this guy from Tishbi gets a meeting with King Ahab, and he says this to him, "Neither。
dew nor rain except by my word."。
Because you people are worshiping Baal, the god of fertility.。
Let me then show you how powerful my God is.。
There will be no more dew, there will be no more rain, nothing, except by my word.。
And he tells him, here's my motivation, "It's before the God before whom I stand."。
And then later on, as we end up in verse 6, God at the climax of this event, he ushers。
and brings him to Cherith.。
Cherith, solitude.。
Cherith, he's by himself.。
He's fed by ravens, all of that.。
He's fed by the brook, water by the brook.。
But the drought is three and a half years, and soon the brook dries up.。
And God says to Elijah, "Go to Zarephath.。
I now want you to go from Ahab to Cherith to Zarephath."。
Well Zarephath is a hundred miles away, so this guy has to walk a hundred miles.。
King Ahab and soldiers are after him.。
So then he not only goes, walks a hundred miles, he goes to Zarephath, which is the。
home of Queen Jezebel, who is married to King Ahab, who is the worst of all the worst.。
And God then says to him, "I want you to go, and a widow will meet you."。
A widow?。
Yes, a widow.。
Shows up to the widow's house.。
The widow tells him, because she's gathering sticks, "I have no food.。
I have a little flour.。
I have a little oil.。
I'm going to go bake some bread so that you, my son and I, will eat it and die."。
And Elijah's looking at him, he says, "Really?。
Of all the people in Zarephath, you made me walk a hundred miles to meet a widow who's。
going to tell me that she has no oil, no flour, and she's now going to make food to die?"。
Yes, yes, that's what I'm going to tell you, because God knows what we need.。
God knows what we need.。
And the story goes that you're going to have to continue to do all these things and go。
and do.。
And the second thing that we talked in sermon is not only does God know where you are, he。
knows where Elijah was at the beginning from chariot.。
He wants him to go to Zarephath.。
He then knows exactly where he needs to go.。
You go to Zarephath, and he knows what you need.。
I'm going to give you the widow.。
It may not be what you want.。
It may not be what you think you need, but it's what you need according to what I think。
that you need.。
That's what God is calling him to do.。
And then lastly, that I want you to go and do.。
And that's what he says to the widow.。
But now this thing comes, and the story goes in verse 17, after this, the son of the women,。
the mistress of the house, after all this thing happens, he becomes ill.。
And his illness was so severe that there was no breath in him, and he dies.。
And in verse 18, the widow says to Elijah, what have you against me, O man of God?。
You have come to bring my son to remembrance and to cause the death of my son.。
That's what she believes.。
A couple things I want to say about this.。
Number one, the woman has a wrong perspective on sin.。
Somehow or another, when this thing happens, she believes that her sin is being punished。
by God.。
Now here's the one thing as Christians that we have to believe, right?。
We know that this woman has some sin.。
We don't exactly know what this sin is.。
We do know that the sin is eating her up.。
There must be some guilt within that sin that keeps popping up, that is at the forefront。
of what she's thinking.。
And eventually, for some reason, as we read, we infer that she thinks that eventually this。
sin will come in the open.。
But when her son dies, she immediately thinks, God wants me to remember the sin and causes。
my son to die.。
Couple of things I want to say about that.。
Sin is present in the world, yes.。
There are implications to your sin.。
There are consequences to your sin.。
There is also sin in the world.。
That's why diseases, natural disasters, all of that, because of the presence of sin in。
our world, bad things happen.。
So there are consequences and ramifications to our sin.。
There is sin in the world because of the fall of Adam and Eve.。
But here's something very important.。
God will not kill other people or do harm to other people just to punish your sin.。
God is not going to kill the widow's son just to punish the widow.。
There are sin, there are ramifications to sin, there's sin around the world, but God。
is not a sadistic God.。
That's something that the widow needs to understand.。
She has a wrong perspective on sin.。
Not only that, what happens?。
She's blaming Elijah because she's hurt.。
Because sometimes we say and do things when we are hurt that we regret.。
Sometimes we say things when we are hurt, when we are angry, that we can't take back.。
As Asians, for most of us here as Asians, we don't know how to deal with anger.。
One day, a lot of times, I may need you to help me understand.。
As an American Asian born here in the U.S., sometimes I may not understand, but I find。
with my parents, they're very private about everything.。
They just keep everything inside.。
They never open up.。
I've never understood why.。
My mom always just says, "No, no, it's no problem.。
You just got to put your head down."。
And they never share about their feelings.。
In all my life, my parents have never shared what they were thinking about.。
They have never been open and they never want to share with anyone.。
Everything is a private matter.。
So eventually one day when all of this pressure builds up and once in a while you just explode.。
And here a lot of times we see the widow gets so frustrated, she says things to Elijah that。
she probably would forget.。
She takes out her anger at Elijah.。
Let me tell you a story.。
Have you ever been to a bad funeral?。
Now funerals are kind of bad, but have you just ever been to a funeral that just went。
completely berserk?。
I went to one funeral one time.。
It was a very close friend and she had about six or seven siblings.。
And then the siblings did not get along.。
The mother had passed away and now the father had passed away.。
The older sister gets up and she's supposed to do the eulogy.。
She gets up just like this and she starts doing the eulogy.。
And so she starts talking about the dad.。
Then suddenly she just went off course.。
She started blaming all of the siblings about how no one took care of the dad, all the problems。
with each of the different siblings, and how she was the sister who took care of him when。
all the other sisters were not there.。
Well, one of the brother-in-laws stood up in front of everyone and says to the sister-in-law,。
"I am so sorry for this.。
She's not mentally right."。
So he gets up and he's trying to grab and pull her off stage.。
And then she starts running around this funeral home that we're in trying to read her eulogy.。
Next thing you know, the sisters stand up and they're all trying to corner her and she's。
running around this funeral home finishing up her eulogy so everyone knows how bad the。
sisters were.。
And then suddenly they just start swearing at each other.。
And we're all sitting there watching.。
And you're sitting there, "This is terrible.。
This is terrible.。
Everyone's swearing at each other.。
The casket goes out.。
They're swearing at each other as the casket's going out."。
It was interesting.。
I bet you as you look back, as you can imagine, the family was never the same.。
As you can imagine, there was things said that you just regret.。
There was things said that you wish at the key of the moment that was never said but。
can never be taken back.。
I remember my mom.。
My mom is, I told you a lot of times, she's not a very open person.。
My mom could be a hard person and she keeps all these anger things built up.。
And my mom a lot of times got into fights with my younger sister so much and they would。
say things that I'm sure they would regret.。
It's been 20 years now.。
I have not seen my sister.。
She moved out, got into it with my mom, moved out, went, disappeared somewhere in New York。
and cut off ties with my mom.。
She felt like as brothers, me and my twin brother will always side with my mom.。
I'm sitting there, I said to her, "You know, she's like this.。
You have to learn to forgive her."。
Because a lot of times she struggles with so much anger but my sister couldn't do it。
and she just couldn't stand it about my mom.。
And she disappeared for 20 years.。
My mom tried to call her.。
My mom tried to apologize for once in my life, I've never seen that.。
My mom tried to tell my sister that she took back everything she said.。
My sister never returned her phone call.。
It's been 20 years.。
So sometimes in the course of life when we get angry, we will say things that we regret.。
We will say things that we wish we could take back.。
And after all this Elijah and all this stuff and she sees this widow, the son's widow,。
widow's son dies.。
And the widow takes out her frustration.。
You know what Elijah's response was in verse 19?。
And he said to her, "Give me your son."。
Elijah never told her that things were going to be okay.。
Elijah never rebukes her.。
Elijah doesn't argue with her.。
Elijah doesn't tell her and reason with her, "Hey, I'm not at fault here, all right?"。
And help her see what she was wrong in her thinking.。
Elijah doesn't even speak scripture to her and tell her to trust God and place your faith。
in God and pray to God he'll save you.。
He doesn't do all these things.。
For some of us, a lot of times we've been in this situation, he doesn't even say, "Hey,。
how are you feeling?"。
"Well, how do you think she's feeling?"。
He also doesn't say, "I understand."。
I think all of us have had to deal with people who are hurt.。
Death of a beloved one, loss of a job, circumstances that happen.。
And sometimes when we're counseling different people, we want to solve their problem.。
We want to tell them it's going to be okay.。
That's not what they want to hear at that time.。
We want to tell them you got to pray to God.。
That's not what they need to hear at that time.。
We want to tell them, "Hey, look, God is in control."。
Or we sit there and say, "How are you feeling?"。
It'll get them even more mad.。
One time I said to an individual who was diagnosed with cancer, I said, "How are you feeling?"。
She says to me, "How do you think I'm feeling?"。
Never said that ever again because I realized that's probably not the best thing to say.。
Never even say, "I understand how you're feeling," because sometimes you don't understand.。
You know what Elijah did?。
He sat there and listened.。
He took it all in.。
He doesn't sit there and give her all the solutions because you know and I know sometimes。
when you're really mad and you're really angry, you know what you did is wrong.。
You know what you're supposed to do.。
And you're not looking for people to tell you what to do.。
You're looking for people to listen to you.。
I had two close friends.。
I had one individual who was going to retire early at 47 years old.。
She was a paralegal and she had saved up her money at 47, 48.。
Her goal was to retire early and she bought her house, everything.。
On the week she was supposed to retire early, she went in for a checkup because her insurance。
was about to be over and the doctor told her she had stage four cancer.。
And now for the last since leaving her workplace, she's been in chemo, radiation every single。
week.。
And we talk at least once a week and half the time, 80% of the time, it's her expressing。
anger and frustration over the situation and she's a Christ follower and she sits there。
and tells me how she's frustrated.。
She doesn't know why this happened to her and what can you say but listen to her.。
I had another person, my wife's aunt, who is not a believer.。
Her husband went to bed that night.。
I remember that because we saw him at a family party and it was just before Thanksgiving.。
He said, "We'll see you at Thanksgiving."。
He went home that night and he had a stroke and he passed away.。
And she calls me up because she knew that somehow or another I was kind of a pastor.。
How do you deal with all this stuff?。
And for subsequent times, once a month I have checkup on her.。
She's not a believer and she tells me all her pain and all I could do is listen to her.。
Because sometimes in the midst of all this stuff, you know what they need?。
Is it for you to give them advice?。
Is it for you to tell them God is there with them?。
Listen to all this stuff but just be there to listen.。
Elijah took the brunt of this widow's pain because this widow said some things that she。
probably will regret if she looked back.。
And he just listened to her and he says one thing to her.。
"Give me your son."。
And he took him from her arms and he carried him up into the upper chamber where he lodged。
and laid him on his own bed.。
And here for the next couple of verses, I'm going to show you Elijah's prayer because。
I find this prayer is so powerful.。
We'll glide over it but in the future I was thinking maybe we could just dive into it。
a little bit more.。
And he cried to the Lord, "Oh Lord my God.。
Have you brought calamity even upon the widow with whom I sojourned by killing her son?"。
He brings the boy to his bed and he cries out to the Lord, "Oh Lord my God.。
What have you done?"。
Because he doesn't know.。
He doesn't know why God killed her son.。
He doesn't know the answers to all these things.。
And when you have a deep enough relationship with the Lord your God, you're able to come。
to God with your pain, you're able to lay it before him and say, "Help me understand."。
Because I don't know.。
Why have you done this?。
Why is this happening?。
I don't know.。
Because sometimes understanding and following the Lord, we don't know why certain things。
happen.。
But then he also intercedes for the boy.。
He takes the widow's son and he intercedes.。
He comes to the Lord and says, "I don't know."。
But then he struts himself upon the child three times and cries to the Lord, "Oh Lord。
my God.。
Let the child's life come into him again."。
He intercedes on behalf of the widow's sons.。
He wrestles with God.。
He prays specifically for the boy's life to be saved.。
But he's not afraid to pray for the impossible.。
Remember when we talked about Zerah for some of those guys who were here and for one of。
the things.。
One of the things that we talked about in that sermon is you have to overcome physical。
impossibilities.。
You have to believe that God sometimes in his realm will work miracles in your life.。
Elijah was not uncomfortable with praying for impossibilities.。
He prayed for a miracle.。
But he also realized God may not answer his prayer.。
And it's okay.。
You're seeking God.。
You're wrestling with God.。
You're coming before him praying for answers.。
You're asking for miracles to happen.。
You're asking him to do the impossible.。
But you have to trust that he may or may not answer that prayer based upon that will.。
And you have to be okay with that.。
See the widow's son who expresses her anger.。
We see Elijah listening to what he has to say.。
He doesn't tell her what to do.。
He brings her, lays him on the bed.。
He's also wrestling the same thing because he doesn't know.。
Comes before the Lord but he intercedes on behalf of the widow's son.。
And the Lord listened to the voice Elijah.。
And the life of the child came into him again.。
And the boy revived.。
And Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper chamber into the house.。
He delivered him to his mother.。
And Elijah says see your son lives.。
And look at verse 24 if you get a chance to underline verse 24.。
And the woman said to Elijah, now I know you are a man of God and that the word of the。
Lord in your mouth is truth.。
Here's what she didn't say.。
Now I know Elijah you are a powerful man.。
Now I know Elijah I can trust you.。
Now I know Elijah man I need to worship you.。
And that you have all this power that we can depend on.。
That's not what she says.。
She says now I know that you are a man of God.。
And that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth.。
When people look at you, do they see something different in you?。
Do they see that it is God working in your life?。
They're not just seeing you but they see beyond and see God in the presence of your life.。
That's the goal isn't it?。
That's the goal of why we do what we do isn't it?。
That when people when we do good and we allow and intercede for others, when we serve others,。
when we help others, all of these things, it's not because people say look at him.。
Look at me.。
Look at how great I am.。
Look at how perfect.。
No, no, no, no.。
Our goal as stewards of the gospel is to say look at how great God is.。
Look at how amazing God is.。
And Elijah had this what we call a confident humility.。
He was confident in what God could do.。
He was confident in what God called him to do.。
And he was humble enough to know that it was God working through him.。
And everything that he did was to bring glory to God in all that we did.。
If you guys are familiar with the name Tim Keller, Tim was a mentor of mine.。
I love Tim Keller.。
If you are not familiar with Tim Keller, I encourage you to Google and look him up or。
read one of his books.。
Tim Keller was a man, if you ever met him, he was a pastor in New York, started becoming。
famous with his famous book Reasoning with God at age 53.。
And as a result, we will look upon, he died two weeks ago.。
When we remember Tim Keller, we will see him as such an influential leader who changed。
the church, the modern church as we know it today, that we will compare him to what Billy。
Graham did back in the 70s and 80s is what Tim Keller brought to us today.。
But on the side note, as a result, I didn't know Tim very well.。
I got a chance to oversee his Los Angeles conference, his big Chicago conference, and。
we interacted with each other very much so.。
Tim was one of the brightest individuals you'll ever met.。
Tim was a pastor, Tim was a scholar, Tim was a theologian, Tim was a professor, Tim had。
a chance, he read so much, he thought so much, he engaged so much, but the man was humble。
in a way that I've never seen a person be.。
Tim got famous when he was a little bit older, age 53.。
One of my friends asked Tim one time and says to Tim, "Tim, how does it feel being famous。
and wanting everyone to sign your books and all that?"。
And Tim says to the woman, he says, "You should never ever feel comfortable that people worship。
you.。
You should just never do."。
Tim was a person who dialogued in the day when, I was just talking with Rachel about。
this, in the day when people were just funny about politics and race and all the other。
stuff, Tim would just listen and dialogue all the time.。
Especially in the last three years of his life, people would just criticize Tim because。
he says, "You're not playing on one side, you're not on the right, you're on the left,。
so which side are you?。
Pick a side."。
And Tim would never engage in those debates.。
Princeton Seminary gave him an honorary doctorate, but Princeton Seminary had to rescind it because。
a lot of the students and faculty and some of their donors says, "Why are you giving。
this person who believes in marriage and who doesn't believe in LGBTQ, we're not giving。
him, we're not giving him this doctorate."。
So they had to rescind the doctorate from him.。
Tim wrote a kind, kind note that says, "Thank you for even considering me and giving me。
this honor."。
When people criticized him on social media, you would never hear Tim get on social media。
and criticize him back.。
Many times Tim would just call that person and says, "I want to understand your views,。
help me understand."。
One of the things that someone said to Tim, the most impressive thing about him was you。
never came away exclaiming, "Isn't Tim Keller amazing?"。
But when you looked at Tim Keller, all he wanted you to know is, "Isn't Jesus amazing?。
Isn't Jesus wonderful?。
Isn't Jesus beautiful?。
Isn't Jesus captivating?"。
That's our life as Christ followers, isn't it?。
We live like Elijah in which when miracles happen because of what God is able to do through。
us, that they're going to look at our life and say, "Wow, look at God.。
Look at what God has done through him and shown him."。
Because that's what we're supposed to be called to do as Christ followers.。
So let's go back to Hebrews 11.。
Why wasn't he in the hall of faith?。
And why instead are we told in verse 35 that the dead, women of the dead, and it says this,。
"Women received back their dead by resurrection."。
I really believe that the author of Hebrews was trying to honor Elijah well by not talking。
about Elijah, but rather about what he did.。
Let me explain this.。
Elijah was all about others first.。
Elijah was never about himself.。
Elijah never did anything to give him the platform, but it was always about what he。
did.。
My theory is that a lot of times the author of Hebrews honored Elijah well by not talking。
about Elijah, but rather about what he did.。
Because Elijah was never about himself, but always about other people.。
That is the conclusion of chapter 17.。
Four weeks in chapter 17.。
We learn that God could use me wherever I come from.。
He used Elijah to Tishbit from Tishbit in Gilead, a place of obscurity, a rural person。
that no one ever knew.。
God could use me wherever I come from.。
I am here by God's timing.。
God used Elijah and called him to Ahab, he called him to Cherith, he calls him to Zarephath,。
all of these things.。
I am here by God's timing because God sees me wherever I am.。
Elijah goes and goes wherever he is called to do.。
He obeyed him to go to Cherith.。
He obeyed him to go to Zarephath.。
He seeks his will.。
Before whom I stand is his motivation as we learn in chapter, in verse 2 of chapter 17.。
He accepts what he is given.。
He accepts the widow.。
He expects, he accepts whatever happens with the widow who had no flower, who had no oil,。
who thought she was about to die.。
He intercedes for others.。
He wrestles with God in an authentic way and he gives God the glory but never takes on。
the glory.。
Miracles unfold in the hands of humble hearts.。
Elijah tells the widow go and do.。
Go and do.。
Go and do, go and do because miracles unfold in the hands of humble hearts.。
Go and do.。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you for the life of Elijah.。
Thank you for all that you have taught us through this chapter 17 full of riches of。
the adventures with Ahab, with Cherith, with Zarephath, with the widow's son, and ultimately。
a lot of times you reminded us this morning it is not about us and it will never be about。
us, but how God you work through and in us in our role as stewards to give you the glory。
in all that we do.。
May we learn from the journey of Elijah.。
May we learn what it means to intercede for others, to die for ourselves so that we may。
serve others every single day, but to give all glory and credit to you.。
As we go forth, may you guide us every step of the way.。
May we go forth on this day in all that we do in our work, in our school, even for some。
of us who are on a summer vacation to honor you every step of the way.。
In Christ we pray, amen.。
Mark is back next week and have a good day.。
Thank you.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
