(soft music)。
- All right, let's turn to our Bible。
because this is one of the essence。
that we gather as the Church of God.。
And we are going through a new series on the Bible,。
back to basics.。
And we begin the series by this picture, right?。
This picture I show you last week is a tall building,。
it's a high rise building.。
And it recalls us how important the foundation。
of a building is.。
The taller the building,。
the deeper the foundation needs to be.。
And as you can see this diagram,。
the foundation goes all the way down, right?。
From the ground down through the soft soil,。
through the mud and all the way down to the bedrock,。
which does not move, right?。
So in order to have a strong building,。
in order to have a secure building,。
you have to build your foundation first, right?。
And the foundation is not seen, right?。
It's not visible most of the time,。
but it's important, right?。
Without it, the building will collapse, right?。
Without it, you cannot build a building taller and taller,。
right?。
And the same way for our spiritual life,。
the same way for our life in God,。
if we believe in the name of Jesus Christ,。
we accept Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior,。
we need to build a solid foundation for our life.。
And our relationship with God,。
hinge on our foundation.。
And we have to do it one day at a time。
and do it so one block at a time。
so that we have a solid foundation, right?。
So last week we talk about,。
we studied one of the Psalms in the Bible,。
Psalm 119, which is the longest chapter of the Bible,。
longest Psalm in the Bible.。
The Psalm talks about the importance and the influence,。
the power of the Word of God.。
And that's why we need the Word of God.。
So today as we begin,。
we will begin with the, what?。
Verse of the week, yes, right?。
Remember to take home last week。
is to spend at least 10 minutes of your day,。
the best time of your day,。
spend 10 minutes at least to read the Bible, right?。
Read the Word of God, right?。
Did you do that?。
Okay, I see one person nodding the head.。
Nodding the head, right?。
I know you've done it, yeah, I know you've done it.。
I believe in you, okay?。
Take at least 10 minutes to read the Word of God, right?。
Read the Bible and memorize the verse of the week.。
And this is the verse of last week, right?。
So let's do that together, all right?。
Psalm 119, 105, let's read it together.。
Your Word is the lamb to my feet and the light to my path.。
Can you recite it?。
Yeah, 105, 119, 105, okay?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Oh, okay, right?。
Okay, I practice it, all right.。
So this is the verse of last week。
and I hope that you have it recited and memorized by heart.。
And we put emphasis on the Word of God.。
As a church, I told you we are the people of the book, right?。
Of this wonderful book, of this sacred book。
that God has revealed to us.。
And today we'll continue to dig into the Word of God。
and I want you to, if you have a Bible,。
it's a print Bible or a Bible app in your phone,。
turn with me to the book of 2 Timothy.。
It's one of the books in the New Testament。
called 2 Timothy.。
Toward the end, if you search the table of contents,。
toward the end, it's called 2 Timothy.。
And there are two points from 2 Timothy chapter three.。
And I wanna share with you,。
I wanna go through this wonderful chapter with you。
and the first half of the chapter。
from verses one to nine, chapter three of 2 Timothy。
talks about the dangers of neglecting the Word of God.。
There are many dangers if we neglect the Word of God.。
And the second part of this chapter from verses 10 to 17。
talks about another big point,。
which is the benefits of learning the Word of God.。
And because time is limited today。
and I will go through the first half,。
which is verses one to nine, the dangers,。
there are dangers of neglecting the Word of God.。
Ask questions, ask the church.。
Have you ever thought about it?。
If we don't have the Bible,。
if we don't dig deeper and deeper into the Bible,。
if we don't understand the Bible,。
if we don't know the Bible enough, right?。
If our knowledge of the Word of God is insufficient,。
inadequate, there are dangers there.。
And we turn to this book called Second Letter to Timothy。
or 2 Timothy.。
And we call this kind of books,。
with 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy and the book of Titus,。
there's three letters,。
there's three books in the New Testament.。
We call them pastoral letters, okay?。
Pastoral letters.。
And what it means is that these are letters。
sent by the apostle Paul.。
He is the last disciple and the least disciple,。
apostle of all, called by God to preach the gospel。
to the Gentiles.。
He's the last and the least apostle called by God.。
And Paul is called by God to be apostle,。
preaching the gospel to the Gentiles, the non-Jews.。
And Paul goes around in the Roman Empire of his day。
and plant many small churches.。
And these small churches are being planted。
and being launched in different cities in the Roman world.。
And these small churches are growing, right?。
Sometimes in the midst of, or many times。
in the midst of struggles and challenges.。
And from time to time, early Christians。
are actually suffering and they are being persecuted。
by the authorities.。
And there are crisis from without,。
and there's also crisis for these churches from within.。
Because there are some false teachers。
who come into the church community。
and spread a false gospel, false teachings.。
And Timothy is one of Paul's disciples,。
one of his mentees.。
And Paul is kind of like a spiritual father to Timothy,。
and Timothy is kind of like a spiritual son to Paul.。
And under Paul's direction, Timothy is in charge。
of the home churches in Ephesus.。
Heard about this city name called Ephesus?。
It's a big city, right?。
Like Chicago.。
It's a metropolitan city in the Roman world.。
So Ephesus is a huge city, and you can imagine。
how difficult it is to pass through。
and to grow small churches in a huge city like Ephesus.。
In a big city, there are many, many different forces。
that counteract the church community.。
Cultural forces, economic pressure,。
religious forces, and spiritual forces.。
They all counteract the church and the gospel.。
And Paul writes letters to Timothy.。
In total, he wrote two letters.。
And to another disciple in another place called Titus.。
So Paul wrote two letters, at least two letters。
to Timothy, his disciple, his pastor student,。
to help him, help him to be encouraged。
as he passes the church.。
Because there are false teachers in the community,。
and these false teachers twist the truth and deceive many,。
especially those who are naive and uneducated or ill-equipped。
and these people are being led astray by false teachers,。
by cult leaders, or anyone who infiltrate into the church.。
And you can imagine how difficult that task is for Timothy.。
And Timothy has to teach, has to correct,。
has to grow the church at the same time,。
and deal with problems in the church。
and such an enormous mission.。
And being a spiritual father,。
Paul writes letters to Timothy.。
These are called pastoral letters。
because the tone in those letters are very personal.。
So as we can read some of the passages from these letters,。
you kind of find that it's kind of like。
a further theological training for Timothy.。
Already a pastor at Ephesus,。
trying to give him the equipment,。
trying to give him the knowledge,。
the courage to go on pastoring the churches.。
So in 1 and 2 Timothy, if you read them,。
scan through the content,。
Paul talks about the gospel of grace,。
sound teaching, the importance of sound teaching。
and theology and doctrines, which are so important.。
And because Timothy also has to raise up leaders。
among the communities,。
Paul also, in 1 and 2 Timothy,。
reminds Timothy the qualities。
and the qualifications for leaders,。
for elders, for deacons.。
And Paul, you know, but all in all,。
trying to encourage Timothy to be patient,。
to endure hardship.。
You know, it is hard to lead the church.。
You know what I'm saying?。
It's not easy, right?。
It's not easy.。
It's one of the most challenging leadership assignments。
on earth, is leading the church.。
And now we come to 2 Timothy,。
which is the second letter Paul writes。
to his mentee, Timothy.。
We turn to chapter three, okay?。
If you have your Bible, turn to chapter three as well.。
Also, the scripture is on the screen.。
Chapter three, verse one.。
You should know this, Timothy.。
Paul is addressing Timothy in a personal tone.。
Know this, Timothy, that in the last days,。
there will be very difficult times.。
For people will love only themselves and their money.。
They will be boastful, proud, scoffing at God,。
disobedient to their parents, ungrateful.。
They will consider nothing sacred.。
They will be unloving, unforgiving,。
and slander others with no self-control.。
They will be cruel and hate what is good.。
They will betray their friends and be reckless,。
be puffed up with pride, love pleasure rather than God.。
They will act religious, but they will reject。
the power that make them godly.。
And Paul said to Timothy, "Stay away from these people.。
"Stay away from them."。
You know, the last days, what is the last days?。
In New Testament terms, in biblical terms,。
last days is the period between the first coming。
of Jesus Christ and the second coming of Jesus Christ.。
Christ came, Jesus came the first time,。
2,000 years ago, right?。
He was born God incarnate, and he lived the kingdom life。
in the midst of his disciples, in the midst of the people.。
2,000 years ago, he died on the cross in Jerusalem.。
He died on the cross and he was crucified, right?。
He was crucified, and he died for our sin,。
died for the sin of mankind.。
And on the third day, he rose again,。
and he was ascended to heaven, and he is king over all.。
And that is the first coming, right?。
It has been detailed in many books。
and many passages in the New Testament.。
That's the first coming.。
And there's also the second coming, which is in the future,。
which lies in the future.。
Jesus will come back again。
because that's what Jesus said, right?。
That's what we are told in the Bible, in the word of God.。
And there's a second coming.。
Jesus can come any time, any moment, right?。
So the last days in New Testament terms。
is the period, I don't know how long, right?。
Between the first coming and the second coming.。
And that is the last day。
because this is the last period of human history。
in biblical terms.。
And that is the last day.。
And Paul is reminding Timothy in this period, right?。
And we are in this period, how people behave.。
And this last day, the time is critical。
because the last day is the period。
full of dangers, full of temptations,。
full of trials and suffering, right?。
And being Christian is not gonna make it easy.。
It is difficult, right?。
And we continue with this passage,。
verses six and following.。
He's talking about the ungodly people in the last days.。
And Paul said, "They are the kind。
"who work their way into people's homes."。
Why?。
Why do they infiltrate into people's homes?。
Well, as I told you, the early churches,。
they meet in homes, right?。
They meet in people's houses.。
They don't have the church building.。
You know, church is a community, it's a family.。
And they get together in different families, right?。
Whoever has a bigger living room,。
they gather at the living rooms.。
So, "They are the kind who work their way。
"into people's homes and win the confidence。
"of vulnerable women who are burdened。
"with the guilt of sin and controlled by various desires.。
"Such women are forever following new teachings,。
"but they are never able to understand the truth.。
"These teachers, these false teachers,。
"oppose the truth just as Jannate and Jambres oppose Moses.。
"They have depraved minds and can't defeat faith,。
"but they won't get away with this for long."。
And Paul says, "Someday, everyone will recognize。
"what fools they are, just as with Jannate and Jambres."。
It's a long passage, but listen up.。
How Paul described the people in the last day.。
The people love falsehood, and they hate truth.。
They hate people telling them the truth.。
The objective truth.。
And listen how the descriptions are being demonstrated.。
And they love themselves.。
These people love the money.。
They resist the will of God.。
Or simply put, they're just proud, right?。
They're prideful.。
And look at the behaviors.。
They're trying to justify the behaviors。
in the name of God, even in the name of God, right?。
Act religious, talk religious, and talk religious,。
but they reject the authority of God, right?。
And Paul uses one of the examples。
known by many Jews of this day.。
Two men by the names of Jannate and Jambres,。
and these two men oppose Moses.。
Now, interestingly enough, you cannot find these two names。
in the Old Testament.。
You cannot find it in the book of Exodus.。
You can only find it in some hundred years before Jesus.。
So 200, 300 BC.。
At that time, the Jews,。
because they were under different empires,。
and the international language has changed,。
changed from the previous language to a new language。
called Aramaic, right?。
And you know the Bible, the Old Testament,。
was written in which language?。
Hebrew, right?。
Hebrew, by and large, Hebrew.。
There was some Aramaic in some chapters.。
But by and large, it's in Hebrew.。
But in those days, some hundred years before Jesus,。
those Jews, when they gather together in synagogues,。
they wanna hear the word of God being preached.。
So the leader of the synagogue will read part of the passage。
from the Hebrew Bible, of course in Hebrew, right?。
And those Jews, because they are not very fluent。
in biblical Hebrew, and by that time,。
the international language was Aramaic,。
so many of them actually speak and hear Aramaic, right?。
So what do you do, right?。
The original language of the Old Testament,。
the Hebrew Bible, is Hebrew, right?。
And there's always a translator there, right?。
Translator in the synagogue.。
And he's gonna translate from Hebrew to Aramaic。
so that the people can understand the Bible,。
understand the word of God.。
So the paraphrase or the translation is called tagam, right?。
You see the word at the bottom of the screen?。
T-A-R-G-U-M.。
It's a Hebrew word.。
Simply means translation, right?。
Translation, translated from Hebrew to Aramaic.。
It's kind of Aramaic paraphrase of the Old Testament.。
When they come to the book of Exodus,。
when Moses was confronting the magicians of the Pharaoh,。
right, with the miracles of God,。
with the signs and wonders of God,。
and the Aramaic paraphrase, the tagam,。
add these two names,。
Jannaz and Jambres, to the story.。
So because the Jewish readers would know the story by heart,。
Paul is using this example to show that。
what people would do, the ungodly people,。
the false teacher would do in the last days.。
They're just like the ancient history.。
What had happened is that these two men,。
as we know Jewish audience,。
these two men opposed the authority of God through Moses.。
So what Paul is trying to get at。
is that there were false teachings being widespread。
in the early churches,。
and they were vulnerable to false teachings,。
especially the women.。
Now if you read this chapter or read this passage casually,。
you'll find it kind of uncomfortable, right?。
'Cause it seems like Paul doesn't have。
much good things to say about women, right?。
Women are being described as uneducated, naive, right?。
At first glance, Paul doesn't have much positive view。
on women, does he, right?。
But that's not true.。
You cannot read the passage out of the context, right?。
And you have to understand what happened in those days.。
2,000 years ago in the first century,。
women were especially vulnerable, right?。
Because in those days,。
women didn't have the opportunity to get educated, right?。
And nowadays, it's totally different, right?。
Women are sometimes much more educated than men, right?。
So what Paul is getting at in his day。
is that there were women in home churches,。
they didn't have the privilege of education.。
So they were less educated, less equipped, right?。
Because they're less equipped,。
so they're easier to be deceived by false teachers, right?。
And that's what the false teachers。
or some of the false teachers。
trying to do infiltrate into the church。
and try to deceive people, right?。
So that they are more vulnerable to deception,。
and they follow those new teachings,。
so-called new teaching, and are deceived.。
And there's danger of neglecting the word of God, right?。
So we understand the context in Paul's day,。
and apply to our days,。
it's actually pretty similar.。
It's not talking about women being more vulnerable.。
Actually, Christians can be vulnerable。
if we are ill-equipped,。
if we are not equipped in the word of God,。
if we don't know much about the word of God, right?。
And there's a danger of neglecting the word of God.。
In Paul's days, in Timothy's day,。
as in today, right?。
If we do not dig deep into the word of God,。
if we don't know much about the Bible,。
if we don't know how to read the Bible,。
we are in danger of false teachers,。
or make ourselves more vulnerable。
to false, unbiblical teaching.。
And this is alarming, right?。
This is alarming.。
And this is why, you know, in our church,。
I put much emphasis on reading。
and understanding the Bible, right?。
Yes, we come to know God。
and restore our relationship with God,。
our creator, our father.。
That's important, that's the starting point, right?。
However, in the journey of faith,。
we have to understand the Bible。
because the words in the Bible。
are God's authoritative words, right?。
Everything has to come under this standard.。
The highest standard for Christian living and doctrines。
is the Bible, is the word of God, is the scripture.。
And everything that we do,。
every tradition that we get to know,。
or we grow up with,。
has to come under the final standard,。
the highest standard, which is the word of God,。
which is the Bible.。
And that's why I put emphasis on reading。
and understanding the Bible, okay?。
This understanding the Bible。
is not a monopoly for pastors or scholars.。
It's for every single Christian.。
Everyone who follow Jesus Christ。
has to understand and know the Bible.。
One of the top-notch Christian scholars or historians。
today is Mark Noll.。
Mark Noll used to teach in different institutes,。
including Whitten College.。
And you know where Whitten College is?。
Whitten College is about 40 minutes west of Chicago.。
It's very close to us.。
And he used to teach there for many, many years.。
His specialty is contemporary church history,。
American church history.。
And Mark Noll has written a book,。
and it was published in the mid '90s,。
and it's still in print.。
You know, renew edition, reprint edition.。
And it's this book.。
And the title of the book is。
"The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind."。
And if you pick up this book,。
and he will tell you what goes wrong。
in the evangelical faith in the church today.。
And the first sentence of the book is this sentence.。
The scandal of the evangelical mind。
is that there's not much of an evangelical mind.。
Isn't that interesting, right?。
He's talking about one of the biggest problem that we have。
is that Christians are often anti-intellectual.。
There's a divorce somehow between our intellect,。
how we think, and our piety, our spirituality.。
And if you go to lay Christians,。
sometimes you have dialogues。
or a conversation about Christian faith.。
Mind, you know, how we think, the clarity of thinking,。
clarity of what we believe and how we practice。
is not in the picture.。
Spirituality is often defined as something lack of intellect。
or doesn't have anything to do with intellectual, right?。
Because we think, okay, those are for scholars, right?。
Those are lifeless stuff, right?。
And we don't need to deal with that, right?。
And Mark Noe is trying to diagnose。
what is going on in evangelical spirituality.。
Is that there's not much of a mind, right?。
We often approach spiritual truth。
or approach the Bible or approach our faith。
with kind of a anti-intellectual attitude, right?。
We don't care about how we analyze.。
We don't care about how we articulate our faith,。
whether we can explain our faith with clarity.。
And sometimes spiritual is being defined as fanatic, right?。
Frenzy, right?。
As long as we feel high, as long as we feel good,。
and that's okay, right?。
And check the brain at the door, right?。
It seems like biblical faith is not grounded。
in any way with reason, right?。
But, you know, brothers and sisters,。
you need to understand in the Bible,。
faith, biblical faith, is grounded in facts。
and in reasons, right?。
It is.。
It is grounded in facts and reasons in history, right?。
Biblical faith, true faith, is factually grounded.。
It's reasonably grounded, right?。
What you believe, what we believe,。
is not a lip of faith, right?。
You just close your eyes and jump over there, right?。
Oh, hopefully this is the right thing to believe in.。
No, the scripture tells us you can examine the facts。
and examine what the Bible says with a clear mind, right?。
And sometimes we just don't care.。
Brothers and sisters, we cannot do this.。
And Paul is asking Timothy to watch out。
because the false teachers is trying to infiltrate。
into the church and spread false teachings。
because, you know, they just don't reason with you.。
I think this is really, really sad。
because many people know that the Bible。
is the best-selling book of all time, right?。
You know that?。
The Bible is the best-selling book of all time。
with five to seven billion copies printed。
over the last 1,500 years.。
Five to seven billion copies, right?。
And the Bible has been translated into different languages,。
modern languages, Chinese, Korean, right?。
English, Spanish, and all sorts of different languages.。
It's been translated into 700-plus languages.。
And there are many, many translations to come, right?。
And I think this is really, really sad.。
This is really tragic that many people know this,。
but sometimes we don't put effort。
to understanding the Bible.。
It's more tragic that we have the Bible in our hands,。
in our phone, in our computer,。
but we don't even try to understand,。
try to handle the Word of God correctly, right?。
We're just being floppy in our study.。
We're just being floppy in our thinking.。
You know, therefore, I still believe,。
I still believe as a pastor,。
I've been pastoring for 25-plus years.。
As a pastor, I still believe the importance。
of classical theological training,。
formal theological training.。
You gotta go through school,。
some sort of degree program,。
and you need to be equipped,。
and well-equipped to learn scripture。
so that you can teach, right?。
I still believe all the pastors,。
all those who are being called to ministry,。
especially teaching ministry,。
they have to go through some sort of formal training.。
Some sort of formal credentials are necessary.。
It's not anything goes.。
You have to go through some sort of formal credentials。
in order for you to be equipped to teach other people, right?。
You know, when I first studied in seminary,。
I started the Master of Divinity program in seminary,。
and you know, the toughest subject,。
the most hated classes among our students,。
you know what that is?。
It's original language, right?。
Hebrew and Greek, right?。
We just hated it, right?。
We have to memorize all these vocabularies。
and the paradigms and the grammatical rules, right?。
It's a new language, right?。
I don't even have time for my own native language, right?。
To polish my own language,。
but when we get into seminary,。
we have to study the word of God in its original language,。
right?。
Can you imagine, you know,。
someone studying like the greatest literature,。
the greatest English literature, Shakespeare, in Chinese,。
in translated version?。
No, you can't, right?。
You just can't translate that, right?。
So you have to understand,。
you have to know how the original language works, right?。
In order to have a better understanding.。
And so for seminary students, right?。
Some sort of credential,。
some sort of formal training is needed.。
Even though you hate it, you just have to do it, right?。
At least you have some working knowledge of how it goes,。
the basics for the Hebrew and Greek or even Aramaic.。
And you know what the word seminary means?。
The word seminaries, we have Trinity Seminary,。
Evangelical Seminary.。
We have a Moody, right?。
Also seminary, you know, some other seminaries.。
You know what the word seminary means?。
(speaks in foreign language)。
Right?。
Yeah, in Chinese, (speaks in foreign language)。
Seminary is an old English word.。
It was first used in the 16th century.。
It comes from a Latin word, seminarium.。
Seminarium means plant a nursery,。
a seed plot.。
Now you get it, what seminary is all about, right?。
It's a seed plot for those who are getting themselves。
ready to serve God, to teach the Word of God, right?。
They come to seminary, it's like a small farm。
to grow the seeds, right?。
Until they sprout and they're strong enough。
and they are ready to be transplanted。
and to help churches to walk in the Word of God, right?。
And I consider myself privileged to receive。
some theological training in North America, right?。
You know, in North America, all the schools,。
the Bible schools, seminaries, are actually。
some of the best schools in the world, right?。
In the best school in the world.。
I've been to three seminaries.。
Westminster Theological Seminary, they have two campuses,。
Philadelphia and San Diego, Southern California.。
The second one I went to is Regent College。
in Vancouver, Canada.。
That's where I got the MDiv, Master of Divinity.。
And then I started to serve and took a sabbatical。
after some years and I went to Wyndham College。
for my biblical archeology study.。
And then now I'm in a program at Midwestern Seminary。
in Kansas City.。
And all of these seminaries, I have learned so much, right?。
I walk into the classroom, I'm humbled.。
Humbled by what I don't know, right?。
Humbled by the vastness of the Bible, right?。
The vastness of our God, how great our God is.。
And we will continue to learn it, right?。
And my first seminary, Westminster Theological Seminary,。
one of their slogans is, "Whole counsel of God."。
You gotta know the whole counsel of God.。
The whole will of God being revealed in scripture.。
You cannot just cherry picking all the time.。
You have to be confronted by the whole Bible。
because the whole Bible reveals the whole counsel of God.。
The whole will of God, the demand of God,。
the covenant of God, the word of God.。
You cannot cherry picking.。
It's not Whole Foods.。
You can come in and according to your desire,。
pick whatever you like.。
The Bible is not Whole Foods.。
You come to the Bible and you need to stand。
under this highest authority, this highest standard.。
You gotta be confronted by the Bible,。
your living, what you believe,。
and how you practice the faith,。
and what your doctrines are, right?。
All the time, you need to come to the Bible.。
The Bible is like a mirror.。
It comes, you go into the mirror。
and check whether you look okay, right?。
And every time you open the Bible,。
every time you read the Bible,。
you are doing self-checking, right?。
Checking yourself, checking your Christian life,。
whether it's aligned with the will of God。
or it's misaligned in some areas.。
And with the spirit of repentance,。
you come before God and ask God to help you。
to align your Christian living。
according to the will of God.。
And that's why I have to take home for you today, all right?。
So last week, I shared the first two points with you.。
Take at least 10 minutes a day to read the Bible, okay?。
Guys, okay?。
If you don't know, if you haven't started,。
I ask you to go to the book of Ephesians, all right?。
I know our men's group is going through the book of Ephesians。
and just read, there are six chapters, right?。
Six chapters in the letter of Ephesians。
and you can start with chapter one,。
chapter two the next day,。
chapter three, chapter four, five, six,。
and then there are many things。
that you may not be able to understand at this point,。
but you can go back, right?。
You can recycle it, right?。
Going back to the first chapter and try to meditate,。
try to understand what is going on here.。
What is the argument?。
What is the thesis of the chapter?。
What is the point, right?。
What is the point of what Paul is saying?。
You know, those are texts.。
Those are languages and you have to understand it.。
You have to comprehend the meaning.。
Or you can start with one of the gospel, as I told you,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John.。
You can start with one chapter a day.。
Take 10 minutes a day, that's the whole point,。
to read the Bible and to think about it.。
And then memorize our verse of the week, okay?。
I have a next verse for you later, okay?。
So, you know, be ready.。
Number three, I wanna add this,。
to read some good books for spiritual growth, okay?。
Good books.。
I'm telling you, I wanna emphasize good books.。
Because there are bad books out there, all right?。
You know, I'm over 50 years old。
and I remember when I was young in faith,。
when I was still a college student,。
and my home church didn't have a pastor,。
didn't have good teacher.。
So we have to go out to bookstores, Christian bookstores.。
Yeah, can you find a Christian bookstore these days?。
No, right?。
They're all closed down, right?。
This is pretty sad, right?。
Everyone goes to Amazon, right?。
Everyone goes to eBooks, right?。
We went to the bookstores and find some books。
to help us and guide us in our Christian walk, right?。
And you go into the books,。
oh, there are different sections, different categories, right?。
And you go in and you try to find some good books。
and we didn't know what good books are, right?。
We just cannot judge, we cannot discern.。
So I bought quite a few books。
because I was yearning for the Word of God。
and I read all I can, right?。
And then years later I find that,。
oh, these books are actually bad。
and I didn't know better, right?。
Those are prosperity gospel.。
Those are, you know,。
truncated understanding of scripture, right?。
They're fun to read, they're enjoyable to read.。
However, they are not sound teaching,。
they are not solid teaching.。
And years later I find out, right?。
I feel so bad about myself。
and I have to kind of re-run away my own spiritual life。
by reading good books, getting to know good books.。
And brothers and sisters, you need to read,。
or you need to start the habit of reading.。
You need to start the habit of reading.。
Yeah, I know in our days and age,。
we don't like to read, right?。
We like YouTube or TikTok, right?。
All those sound bites, you know?。
We just like, you know, be entertained, right?。
And passively receive information and misinformation.。
And we don't train ourself。
to be better people of discernment.。
You know, you need to train yourself how to think,。
how to analyze, how to articulate, right?。
And I wanna recommend you some of the good books。
for spiritual growth, right?。
Some of the good books, right?。
Again, there are many books out there, right?。
The worst thing today is that you go to Amazon,。
you search spiritual growth, you know,。
by and large you will come across some of the very, very,。
you know, truncated teaching, right?。
Because those books are often written by, you know,。
people who don't learn enough in the world.。
And they don't have the credential to do so,。
to write certain things.。
So, you know, we have to learn。
and develop the habit of reading.。
Because reading is active learning, right?。
You read a passage, it's always actively engaging your mind.。
You try to understand those words。
and try to connect them together and find the thesis, right?。
Find what it says, right?。
You have to summarize it,。
you have to go back to the text and to digest it,。
to comprehend it, right?。
You have to have the habit of reading,。
ask questions in order for you to grow spiritually.。
There's no way you can get without reading.。
Some serious reading, some solid reading, right?。
I want to recommend you some of the books,。
some of the classics actually, very good books.。
Some of them are older, some of them are more recent.。
On the left you see the book written by J.I. Packer.。
He passed away not too long ago.。
He has this classic,。
"Over One Million Copies Sold," right?。
I'll be more thankful,。
it says, "Over One Million Copies Comprehended."。
Read and comprehend.。
However, it's a very good book, "Knowing God."。
It's a very simple, systematic, summary,。
explanation of the whole Christian faith.。
And it's been translated into different languages.。
Chinese is one of them.。
And Tim Keller has written many, many good books.。
Yeah, Keller also passed away not too long ago。
and be with the Lord.。
But one of the book is, "The Reason for God," right?。
"Believe in an Age of Skepticism."。
This is a book especially good。
for those who are seeking the faith.。
You want to understand the faith,。
you haven't made the commitment to believing in God,。
in Jesus, but this is a book for you, Tim Keller.。
"The Reason for God," right?。
He walks through you step by step,。
logically, reasonably, what our faith is all about, right?。
Why do we believe in God, right?。
And on the right is,。
Anthony writes, "Simply Question,"。
why Christian identity makes sense, right?。
And these are very, very solid resources to help us grow.。
Yeah, not too long ago, during Good Friday weekend,。
we invited Dr. Chloe Sun, right?。
Old Testament professor。
from Fuller Theological Seminary in Southern California.。
She came and gave a workshop,。
a series of workshops on interpreting the Psalms。
and the Bible.。
And many of Chloe's books are actually helpful。
for us to understand the Word.。
And so, all I'm trying to encourage you。
is that take some moment to read the Bible。
and also find some good books for spiritual growth.。
We can go to our bookshelf。
and find some good books as well, right?。
And I wanna end today with this verse of the week, all right?。
Matthew chapter 22, verses 37 to 38.。
And this is what Jesus said.。
Jesus said, "You must love the Lord your God。
"with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind."。
And this is the first and greatest commandment.。
Why did I pick this one?。
You must love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
all your soul, and all your mind.。
Your thinking is a way of worship.。
Your thinking, your knowing God,。
is a way to draw closer to God.。
It's not just by feeling, right?。
It's not just spiritual high, but with a cool head.。
You think in clarity.。
You think about the faith.。
You have a correct understanding,。
solid understanding of the Word.。
And that is the first and greatest commandment.。
Let's recite it together, all right?。
Matthew chapter 22, verses 37 to 38.。
"You must love the Lord your God。
"with all your heart and all your soul, and all your mind."。
And this is the first and greatest commandment, all right?。
Let's recite that this week.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we come before you.。
We give you thanks because you are the God who speaks,。
and you are the God of truth.。
And thank you for revealing your will。
and your whole counsel through scripture.。
Thank you for this book that we have.。
Thank you for the content that we have.。
It talks about you, God.。
It talks about how you deal with a sinful mankind,。
how you love us, how you deal with this broken world.。
It talks about your heart.。
Help us to get to know you more, deeper and deeper,。
drawing closer to you.。
And I pray for the sisters and brothers here。
that we do make the effort of knowing you.。
And by knowing you, we experience joy and peace in you.。
Reading the word, reading your scripture,。
we come closer and closer to the heart of God.。
And I pray that you will bless us each day。
with some moments to meditate, to think about your word.。
And as we go reading, as we get to know our faith。
more and more, draw us closer so that we know you better.。
And thank you for being our God.。
That we can relate to you.。
We can call you friend.。
We can call you heavenly father.。
And thank you for the grace and for the peace that we have.。
So may your spirit send us out with a spirit of truth。
to yearn for your truth, to get to know you.。
And may your church rise up and grow up。
with the foundation solid, grounded in your word.。
In Christ, I pray.。
(gentle piano music)。
Well, God bless you and I wanna see you next week.。
And hopefully you can stay a little bit。
and for table fellowship to enjoy the refreshment。
prepared by Kelly.。
Thank you, Kelly.。
And get to know one another and say hi to one another.。
(gentle piano music)。
(piano music)。
