And let's welcome Pastor Mark for the sermon.。
- Hey, good to see all of you, at least most of us, right?。
I know it's a very exciting game, the World Cup.。
It comes down to penalty kicks,。
and I don't know, which team are you rooting for?。
Which team are you rooting for?。
Here.。
It's over?。
It's already over.。
So Argentina won, right?。
All right, all right, let's celebrate, let's celebrate.。
Okay, anyways.。
Well, good to have the update so we can pay attention,。
and we can concentrate of why we're here,。
because we're here to worship, right?。
So I would like to share something。
about the Christmas story recorded in the Bible,。
in the New Testament.。
When we come to Christmas,。
when we come to this Advent season,。
there are many questions that we may ask about Christmas.。
For example, especially Christmas,。
you know, it has inherited a lot of different traditions,。
in our Western world, at least, right?。
So one tradition is Santa Claus, right?。
Santa Claus.。
Do you think Santa Claus has anything to do。
with the Bible Christmas story?。
What do you think?。
- No.。
- Yeah.。
(congregation laughing)。
You know where Santa Claus come from?。
- Coca-Cola.。
- Coca-Cola?。
(laughs)。
You know.。
- St. Nicholas?。
- St. Nicholas, yes, yes, you're right, James.。
Yeah, St. Nicholas.。
Is a bishop in today's Turkey.。
He was a Christian leader and known for being kind。
and helpful to those who are needy.。
Back in the days, AD 200, 300, something like that,。
or 200 to 300 years after Christ.。
So it's an early church leaders.。
One of them is called St. Nicholas.。
Because of his kind work,。
you know, the tradition has developed。
that someone who is giving gifts to those who are needy。
in the history, in the church history.。
So that's why we have Santa Claus, right?。
So although Santa Claus today has very little to do。
with the Christmas story,。
have very little to do with the Bible,。
but you need to understand the root of the tradition,。
the root of the legend comes from a bishop。
called St. Nicholas.。
Secondly, why December 25th?。
Why?。
Have you ever asked this question?。
Now, according to the Bible,。
actually Jesus was born in the summer days.。
You know?。
Actually in the summer days.。
You know why?。
Because Luke 2 tells us the shepherds。
are grazing the sheep in the field of Bethlehem.。
Now, according to the ancient way of working。
between farmers and shepherds,。
after the harvest of the barley and wheat,。
they would invite the shepherd to come with their sheep,。
and they will eat the stubble of the leftover。
from the harvest.。
So they would let them into the field.。
So that is right in the summer days, right?。
Right in the summer days.。
'Cause harvest happens in April and May,。
and then the summer season kicks in.。
The shepherd will come to the farming fields,。
to the land.。
They will graze in the land of the farmers.。
So there was a contract between the shepherd。
and the farmers, and they would let them in.。
So with that background,。
we kind of know Jesus was actually born in the summer days.。
All right?。
I'm wrong, okay?。
But why December 25th?。
Now, one theory, one theory,。
is that during the early church,。
when Christianity was being recognized,。
they found that on December 25th, or around this time,。
in the Roman empire, the Roman people。
would celebrate the sun god.。
It's a sun god festival.。
They would give gifts and lights,。
and something like that, like candles,。
to celebrate the arrival of sun god.。
But when Christianity is being recognized properly。
in the Roman empire,。
the Christians, the Roman Christians,。
they took over the festival,。
and replaced it with the celebration of Christmas,。
the coming of true God, son of God.。
So that's how it has developed,。
December 25th, instead of worshiping the false god,。
the sun god, instead of being controlled by him。
to worship him, the Christians were saying,。
let's celebrate the true God, son of God, Jesus Christ,。
who come into our world, right, to give us hope.。
Not the sun god, not the false god,。
but the true God, son of God.。
So with that background, you understand。
the first Christmas was actually counter-cultural,。
because the entire cultural world of the Roman empire。
was celebrating following the false god,。
you know, the sun, the moon, and the stars.。
But the Christians come along and saying,。
hey, let's not do that, and replace it。
with the true meaning, with the true God, son of God.。
So that's why December 25th, right?。
And another theory is how they figure out。
is 25th of December was the birth of Jesus Christ,。
that they count nine months from Passover.。
Because according to one tradition,。
Mary was conceived by the Holy Spirit on Passover,。
but there's no other better day for her to be conceived,。
I guess, so they thought of the conception happened。
in Passover, and then count nine months,。
because in the ancient days, they believe after conception,。
there'll be nine months in the womb,。
and then giving birth to a child.。
So they count nine months from Passover。
to end up on December 25th, right?。
But there are different Western and Eastern church,。
they have different traditions。
of using different calendars.。
So sometimes they calculate the Passover。
would be on a different day.。
So some of the Eastern Christians, Eastern Orthodox,。
they will not celebrate Christmas on December 25th.。
They instead, they celebrate in January.。
So if you go to a Eastern Orthodox church,。
you worship with the Orthodox communities,。
they would not celebrate on the 25th of December,。
they would do so on January 7th or 6th, something like that.。
So there are a lot of questions。
we can ask about Christmas.。
However, there are one question。
there is one question we have to ask。
is what does the Bible say about the Christmas story, right?。
So today I would like to turn to the Gospel of Luke,。
Luke chapter one, to take a few verses。
out of the first two chapters of the Gospel of Luke。
and see what the Bible writers want us to know。
about the Christmas story.。
Of course, there are tons of things that we can ask。
about the birth of Jesus Christ,。
the scenario, the circumstances,。
what kind of diaper did he use,。
there are all sorts of different things we can ask,。
but what the Bible want us to know。
and don't want us to miss,。
we have to go back to scripture, right?。
So there are two Gospels。
that talk about the Christmas story, okay?。
Which one?。
The Gospel of Luke is the first one, it's one of them,。
one of the two.。
The second one is Gospel of Matthew, right?。
Only the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke。
talk about the Christmas story.。
So Luke chapter one, here we go.。
When Herod was king of Judea,。
there was a Jewish priest called Zechariah.。
He was a member of the priestly order of Abijah。
and his wife, Elizabeth.。
She was also from the priestly line of Aaron.。
Now, Zechariah and Elizabeth were righteous in God's eyes,。
careful to obey all of the Lord's commandments。
and regulations.。
They, however, had no children。
because Elizabeth was unable to conceive。
and they were both very old.。
Now, notice how the story goes.。
This is the stage setting first.。
Tell us what happened in the first Christmas, right?。
So chapter one talks about the birth of John the Baptist,。
the cousin of Jesus, the pioneer of Messiah, right?。
The foreigner of Messiah.。
So they talk about a couple, Zechariah and Elizabeth.。
Now, how does the Bible describe them?。
When you read the Bible,。
sometimes you can pick up some details。
and ask the question,。
what kind of social statements are these?。
Social statement meaning statements of descriptions。
that talks about their social status,。
their position in the society,。
their ranking in the society.。
What kind of people do they belong to?。
Zechariah and Elizabeth, old couple, no children, right?。
Now, in those days, in the biblical world,。
when you had no children,。
you cannot conceive, you don't have a child,。
especially you don't have a son.。
You are considered being under curse.。
You're being under curse.。
If you're able to give birth, you have God's blessing.。
But in those days,。
in the ancient society of honor and shame,。
not being able to conceive is considered as a curse,。
is considered as a shame.。
It's a social shame.。
So you don't have the social currency of boasting,。
hey, I have son, right?。
I have a daughter.。
I have my own family.。
I have a next generation.。
In those days, you are considered a curse。
if you cannot have a son or daughter.。
And also, they are hopeless.。
Elizabeth and Zechariah as a couple,。
very old, hopeless.。
So you have no hope of bearing another son。
because the day is coming, you're counting down,。
you're very, very old.。
So when Luke talks about the first Christmas,。
he introduces us to the first main characters,。
Elizabeth and Zechariah, under curse, hopeless, very old.。
Now, let's fast forward.。
Chapter one, the rest of the chapter one。
talking about the birth of John the Baptist.。
And then chapter two, we'll talk about the birth of Jesus,。
the real story of Christmas.。
Chapter two, verse one.。
At that time, the Roman emperor Augustus。
decreed that a census should be taken throughout the empire.。
This was the first census taken。
when Quirinius was the governor of Syria。
and all the people returned to their own ancestral towns。
to register for this census.。
So that's why we have the story, Mary and Joseph,。
they probably got a donkey.。
I guess they didn't.。
They didn't have enough money to rent a car or something.。
So they travel all the way from the north, Nazareth,。
where they are, and then all the way down to the south,。
to the central hill country, south of Jerusalem,。
to Bethlehem, go back to their hometown.。
And then the story goes, as you can imagine,。
they went back to their hometown。
in order to register for this Roman census.。
They couldn't find an Airbnb,。
so they end up in a barn or something.。
They end up in a fairly humble place.。
That's how the story goes.。
Now, notice when I read Luke 1, 5,。
the introduction of the Christmas story, John the Baptist,。
and then chapter two right here,。
talking about the birth of Jesus, the first Christmas,。
how many characters are being introduced?。
Or maybe I should ask, how many powerful characters。
are being introduced in those days?。
Chapter one, five, Herod the Great, right?。
Herod the Great.。
He was a mighty great king.。
He ruled the land of Palestine and Israel in those days.。
He has so much power.。
Actually, he had the absolute power in the region,。
in the eastern frontier of the empire.。
Here, chapter two, and other two powerful characters。
are being introduced.。
Augustus.。
Now, in those days, the superpower of the entire world。
was the Roman emperor,。
and Augustus was the first emperor of Roman history.。
And then the second character is Quirinius.。
Quirinius is the prophet of Syria,。
which include Israel and Palestine,。
the governor of Syria, and Quirinius is the commander.。
He's the governor of the entire province.。
Now, as you can tell,。
the three powerful characters in those days,。
absolute power, super powerful figures,。
are being introduced in the first Christmas story,。
according to the Gospel of Luke.。
Herod the Great, Quirinius, and then Augustus.。
Now, think about it.。
Now, if you walk into a bookstore, okay,。
I know bookstore is fading away, okay?。
Let's imagine you go to a library or go to a bookstore.。
You go to the biography section,。
biography section.。
What kind of biographies you will find?。
Or what kind of biographies will be the best sellers?。
Has to be a famous figure, right?。
Not too long ago, I was in the library.。
I bumped into a book written by Hillary Clinton.。
Biography of hers.。
She's famous, right?。
Or she's powerful.。
So these kind of biographies will be the best sellers.。
In Jesus' day, it was the same way.。
The powerful characters, the powerful people。
who have influence in their own world。
or in the lives of many other people,。
they have their own biographies.。
Sometimes they have inscriptions.。
Sometimes they have some public billboard。
to talk about their good deeds, to talk about their birth.。
For example, Augustus, he was born on a certain day,。
and that certain day becomes a special holiday。
for the entire empire, for all the people.。
And when Augustus was born,。
when people talk about his biographical information,。
Augustus was being called the son of gods,。
the savior of the world.。
He bring peace, the Roman peace, the Pax Romana,。
because of the Romans, because of the Roman military might.。
You will have peace, Pax Romana, Roman peace.。
So when Augustus comes, when he was born,。
he brings the gospel.。
You know, the gospel was a political term in those days.。
The gospel meaning the news, the good news。
of the king being born, the kingdom being ushered in,。
being launched because of this figure.。
So because of Augustus, you have joy and peace。
and good tidings and gospels.。
And he is the son of gods.。
Now, these kind of powerful figures。
will have their own famous biographies,。
the best sellers of those days.。
People would read that.。
People would listen to those stories and thinking,。
geez, they really control our lives.。
They really are very powerful.。
But according to the gospel of Luke,。
when he writes about the story of Christmas,。
these guys, they are not occupying。
the foreground of a stage.。
They are not in the front of a stage.。
They are in the background of a stage.。
These guys who can do a lot of things。
to control the lives of the common people,。
they are in the background.。
And who is in the foreground?。
The minor characters.。
Zechariah, Elizabeth, John the Baptist,。
Joseph and Mary, and Jesus.。
They should belong to the background.。
But in the gospel of Luke,。
they are being brought forth to front stage.。
Now let's take a look at the first Christmas story,。
chapter two, verse four.。
And because Joseph was a descendant of King David,。
he had to go to his hometown Bethlehem in Judea,。
David's ancient home.。
He traveled there from the village of Nazareth。
in Galilee in the north.。
He took with him Mary to whom he was engaged,。
who was now expecting a child.。
And while Joseph and Mary were there,。
the time came for her baby to be born.。
She gave birth to her firstborn son, Jesus,。
wrapped him, and then put him in the manger.。
Because there was no lodging available for them.。
Now this is how the story goes, right?。
As I said, they came to their hometown Bethlehem.。
They had no place to stay.。
Now in this short passage,。
many times it talks about census, the Roman census.。
Now it happened that we know。
the Roman emperor would call for census。
for the entire emperor once every 14 years.。
So about 10 to 14 years, they would call for another census.。
And the census will dictate the people。
to go back to their hometown.。
Maybe they're working somewhere else,。
some other town, some other cities.。
But according to the decree of the Roman emperor,。
they have to return to their hometown to register,。
to pay taxes.。
Kind of like, you know, once a year we have to pay tax, right?。
In March, the tax day, the IRS.。
Here, Luke is talking about the Roman IRS。
calling you to go back to your hometown to pay for taxes.。
But a little bit different is that when they decree you。
or they dictate you to pay the Roman taxes,。
it is heavy tax, very heavy tax.。
So whenever the Roman emperor called for a worldwide census,。
there was always unrest in the society.。
People would fight back and people would revolt,。
something like that.。
As you can imagine what kind of time they live in.。
Joseph and Mary, they rush from Nazareth。
back to their hometown, Bethlehem.。
And you see a lot of social unrest,。
just like what we see today.。
It's very unsafe to travel.。
They end up in Bethlehem.。
And verse five says, "Now expecting a child," right?。
And you can imagine how difficult it is to travel。
with a pregnant woman, right?。
And the last verse here, it says,。
there was no lodging available for them.。
Now, according to our modern imagination, as I told you,。
they went to Bethlehem and they couldn't find an Airbnb。
or a Motel 6, and then they end up in a barn or something.。
But if you understand the background of the story,。
most of the Palestinian houses were designed。
as a two-flat house.。
There were two stories.。
The top upper level is the guest room。
or the living room or the sleeping quarter,。
or the bedrooms, it's upstairs.。
And then downstairs is the manger。
or the kitchen or the area of productivity.。
They cook, they sew, they work on their farm stuff。
and crafts in the lower level,。
where you have sheep and donkeys and goats and all that.。
Now, if you can imagine, there were two stories of the house.。
The upper level is actually the guest room.。
Actually, that's what the gospel is telling us.。
The word being used is a special word。
for guest room, for the upper room.。
Remember Jesus had the last supper?。
Where did he have it with the disciples?。
The upper room.。
The gospel used the same word.。
It's the upper room that they had the last supper.。
They had the Passover meal, the last Passover meal.。
And the lower level is where the animals are.。
Now, this kind of design is very practical.。
You know why?。
Because when in the winter days or at night,。
who's keeping you warm?。
Now, in Chicago, it's getting really, really cold,。
getting really, really chilly here.。
We have heater, right?。
We have water heater, we have the pipe heater。
to keep us warm.。
But the Palestinian houses are designed in such a way。
as to keep warm of the people who stay。
or who sleep in the second floor.。
The first floor, who's keeping you warm?。
The donkey, the animals, right?。
Anyone who have pets here?。
Dogs and cats?。
Do you sleep with them?。
You do, right?。
Why?。
They want to, right?。
Why, why do they want to sleep with you?。
Because you keep them warm, right?。
And that they keep you warm, all right?。
So that's the same way.。
Lower level, where the donkeys are,。
where the horses or goats or sheep,。
they will keep the upper level warm, right?。
Hot air rises.。
So that's how the house was designed in those days.。
So if with that background,。
we can actually translate the last verse here,。
because there was no room in the guest room。
available for them.。
Now, as you can imagine, the Roman IRS comes in,。
everyone has to go back to their hometown, right?。
And when you go back to your hometown,。
where are you gonna stay?。
Usually you stay with your relatives, right?。
Your forefathers or your family members, right?。
Or your distant family members.。
You knock on their houses and say,。
"Hey, can I stay here?"。
Right?。
Something like that.。
Next week, I'm traveling to California。
after the Christmas service here.。
So four of us will travel back to Northern California,。
where most of my in-laws are there.。
You think we would have to rent an Airbnb?。
No, no, we knock on their houses.。
And we stay with them, right?。
That's what happened with Mary and Joseph,。
because Joseph's hometown is in Bethlehem.。
So they went back to their hometown.。
So many people are being squeezed into the guest room.。
And Mary and Joseph just happened to be at the doorstep.。
They couldn't find any place on the upper level.。
And by all means, Mary was pregnant, right?。
It's pretty tough for a pregnant woman。
to climb to the second level anyway, right?。
So they probably stay in the first floor, right?。
So there's nothing like, "Oh, they're so poor,。
"and we pity them," right?。
It's actually a story of inviting。
and welcoming the Holy Family.。
This family, whoever that is, in Bethlehem,。
are actually inviting Joseph and Mary.。
I can imagine they would go to the first floor。
and try to put things together, put things in order,。
so that Joseph and Mary can stay in a warm place, right?。
To wait for doing their things, their taxes in Bethlehem.。
With that background,。
Gospel of Luke chapter two is actually a story。
of inviting Jesus into their home, into their house.。
Now, we started with chapter one.。
Now we're in chapter two.。
And as you know, there are different parts。
of the Christmas story.。
The shepherd welcomed Jesus.。
They received the gospel.。
Zechariah, Elizabeth, they saw God is speaking.。
They saw God is working.。
The history of redemption continues.。
God show up again, speaks to them again.。
Chapter two, this family in Bethlehem。
welcomed Joseph and Mary,。
and ultimately, the birth of Jesus.。
It's a welcoming story.。
When Jesus comes,。
do you have room for him?。
Are you inviting him to come into your lives?。
Now, as I told you, chapter one and chapter two,。
all this superpower, all the important figures。
are being pushed back into the background.。
And what comes forth to the center of the stage,。
getting the spotlight, are the common people,。
the lower level, those who are ordinary,。
those who are being seen as unimportant people,。
or even shamed, being cursed.。
Unimportant people are taking the center stage。
in the Christmas story.。
Now, every year comes to the month of December,。
to the end of the year.。
If you notice, Time magazine。
always elect someone who is important, right?。
Someone who is important.。
To be the icon of the year,。
to be the person of the year, right?。
The icon of the year, this year,。
who is it, do you know?。
Michelle Yao.。
Michelle Yao, right?。
You know Michelle Yao?。
Michelle Yao.。
Y-E-O-H.。
Yo, right, yo, or Yao, right?。
She has been an action figure,。
Asian actress, for so many years, right?。
How is she right now?。
60s, 60s, yeah.。
She's being elected icon of the year.。
And the person of the year in 2022, who is that?。
Zelensky, Zelensky.。
Ukrainian prime minister, right?。
Because of him, he keep up the spirit of the Ukrainians,。
you know, to fight back of the Russian invasion.。
Now, this kind of people are being regarded important.。
Now, who among of us would be qualified。
to be called Time's magazine person of the year, right here?。
Who is it?。
Who would have the qualification to be like that, right?。
Nobody, probably, right?。
Nobody.。
None of us.。
So, according to the eyes of the world,。
we are not important.。
And sometimes we feel that way.。
Subjectively, personally, we think that people don't care.。
We don't think people would care about our future.。
What are we doing?。
But in the eyes of God, according to the gospel of Luke,。
you are important.。
The ordinary people have the spotlight.。
The ordinary people, the powerless people,。
as they receive Jesus,。
they would be regarded as valuable in God's sight.。
It's valuable in God's sight.。
Some years ago, I read something about Mother Teresa.。
You know Mother Teresa, right?。
And she was famous, right?。
You know, she was not very famous in the beginning.。
For many years, nobody knows about her existence.。
It's only because in 1970s, I believe it's 1970s,。
when a BBC reporter went to Calcutta to interview her,。
to ask what Mother Teresa is doing。
on the streets of Calcutta.。
What she was doing is to wash the bodies。
of those who are dying on the streets,。
bring them home so that they can die in dignity.。
That is Mother Teresa.。
Day after day, she was doing something like that.。
So nobody knows, nobody pay attention.。
Only one day, a BBC reporter was curious。
about what she's doing, and air an interview.。
So the whole world know who Mother Teresa is.。
But for many years, she was silent.。
She was quiet, doing her work.。
Mother Teresa once said, and I want to quote,。
"Not all of us can do great things,。
"but we can all do small things with great love."。
(audience member sighs)。
Not all of us can do great things,。
but we can do small things with great love.。
You see, that's the Christmas story.。
Not all of us can do great things, right?。
Sometimes we just thought that our works are insignificant.。
Nobody pay attention.。
But we can all do small and little things with great love.。
Couple weeks ago, I came into the church。
during the weekdays.。
So as usual, I check out some of the mails that come in.。
So I open some of the envelopes.。
Some of them are junk mails, right?。
But I receive a card.。
And then I notice, where is it from?。
It's from our state.。
It's not from Illinois, it's from other state。
of the country.。
So I was curious, who would write a card。
to us, right?。
So I open the envelope.。
There was a card in there.。
There was a small offering being made to our church.。
And I read the content of the card.。
It's addressed to the Yuvi family, to our church.。
It's written from a very old couple, very old parents.。
And they wrote to us and thanked our church。
for reaching out to one of his children.。
Because they have been praying for the children。
for a long time, adult children.。
Praying for them for a long, long time, for many years.。
And because of our ministry, we received this family。
into Christ.。
And I read that card, I read the message.。
I finally realized, this is what our church。
should be doing, right?。
This is what we are here.。
That's why we are here.。
That's the purpose of our existence.。
We're here, it's not because to please ourselves,。
but as instrument of the grace of God.。
We can receive someone who has been lost for a long time。
into, back to the family of God.。
And in fact, this is the spirit of Christmas.。
Now in this Christmas, as we end,。
I want you to ask yourself, what can you do?。
What small things can you do with great love?。
Perhaps visiting someone, or attending to someone。
who is lonely.。
Now ask about someone who has been forgotten.。
Who's gonna do that?。
You are going to do it.。
Small and little things with great love, right?。
But the ultimate question is,。
do we have room for that great love?。
Jesus Christ himself came into your world.。
Open your home, open your lives,。
open your heart to receive it.。
Because without Jesus in our lives,。
we would not be able to do small things with great love。
in the kingdom of God.。
So think about some of the people you can reach out to。
in this season.。
Think about it, all right?。
Pray for them and do something.。
Doesn't have to be great things, small things,。
but with great love.。
That's the closing prayer.。
Father, we give you thanks because you see us as important.。
Father God, we give you thanks。
because we are valuable in your sight.。
And I pray that in this season,。
as we celebrate the birth of Jesus, our Lord, our Savior,。
we would remember that in your sight,。
in your vision, that we can be your instruments.。
Help us to do small things, to bless other people,。
to be your instrument, to bring love and joy and peace,。
the gospel, the true gospel to our world.。
Maybe someone that we know, maybe our friends,。
maybe writing a card, you know,。
send some words of encouragement to say hello,。
to connect, to reconnect.。
I ask that you will use us as your instrument。
to bring forth your peace and your joy in this Christmas.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Well, God bless you and Argentina one,。
and we can have lunch, okay?。
I wanna see you next Sunday, 25th.。
We're gonna have a banquet here,。
luncheon here with a special Christmas dinner.。
