Hey guys, good morning.。
I just want to show you,。
a little kid gave me a gift today。
and really surprised me。
because I wanted to have this for the longest time.。
And she, after the 10 o'clock service,。
she walked to me and say,。
"Oh, you know, I have this gift for you。
"and I think you should be the best recipient for this."。
And it's actually this.。
You know what is this?。
Huh?。
You don't know?。
Okay, it's not a gift box, okay?。
It's the Ark of Covenant model, okay?。
So you can see here, there are two rods here。
and there's a rectangular box。
and on top of it is the guardian of the sacred place.。
What they call?。
Cherubim, yes, right, Cherubim.。
Yeah, right.。
And then inside, inside you see there's this thing.。
The two tablets, right?。
Yeah, the stone tablets of the Ten Commandments。
and also the Rod of Aaron.。
This is so little, so nice, so nice.。
I want to have this for a long time,。
but I just don't want to waste money buying it.。
But now I got it for free, so that's great, yeah, right?。
So that's great.。
It will go on my bookshelf, right?。
Let's pray for one another and I see Chee's back。
and let's welcome him.。
And he got a visa, right?。
So that's great, God answer our prayer.。
Let's pray together.。
Father, we give thanks for the brothers and sisters here。
and we all have different challenges。
and different issues in our lives,。
but we know that you are abundant.。
We know that you are always faithful to us.。
So we come and worship you.。
We want to acknowledge that you have the lordship。
and sovereignty over our lives.。
And once again, we come to you and open our hearts。
and lay down all of our burden。
and even our heart before you,。
knowing that we have to trust you.。
We have to continue to rely on you,。
knowing that you are our faithful God。
and guiding our steps.。
Thank you for granting Chee a successful trip to Malaysia。
and come back for the successful application of the visa.。
And just pray that you continue to bless this ministry,。
the youth ministry and the English ministry here.。
And also want to pray for one another.。
We know there's a GA general assembly next week.。
Pray that you will grant our hearts。
and our church with a sense of unity.。
We come to get to know the financial situation of our church。
and any other planning for our church。
and just use us and use our gifts。
and use our talents, use our resources to build your body。
so that your church will bring glory to you.。
Thank you again for bringing us together。
even in the midst of rain。
and pray that you will teach us your truth。
and may your Holy Spirit lead us into your word.。
We'll get to know you more in Christ and pray.。
All right guys, today is going to be part four。
of our series on seven letters to the seven churches.。
And as you remember, we have gone through。
three letters already from Ephesus, Smyrna to Pergamon.。
Today is church number four, Phaetia.。
Phaetia is a little bit inland.。
It's an old city.。
It's a prominent city of textile industry.。
So if you want to get some clothes or get some fabric,。
this is the place you go to in the ancient world,。
as particularly in today's Western Turkey.。
You will find linen and wool and tanners。
and trading of different kinds of textile.。
In fact, this city is already mentioned in the book of Acts.。
And if you remember, in Acts 16, when Paul was in Philippi,。
he met a woman called Lydia.。
Can you see that?。
Lydia is from her hometown, the city of Thyatira.。
And she was a pagan.。
She was a Gentile, kind of a God-fearer.。
You know, she was attracted to Judaism at the time。
and worshiping the one and only God.。
And she left her home city, Thyatira, and moved to Philippi.。
And there she met Paul and heard the gospel。
and respond to the message of Paul.。
And she became one of the first church members。
in the first century.。
And by the way, if you remember,。
Paul was also a tent maker, right?。
Instead of just preaching the gospel full-time,。
he is also working part-time as a tent maker.。
I think he learned this trade from his hometown,。
Thessal or Thyatira, or maybe he learned it。
from Lydia as well.。
In any case, Paul was into the textile industry as well.。
So we come to this city called Thyatira.。
As you can see, it's a Roman city at the time.。
And it's also a thriving city。
with a lot of industry going on.。
And this city has a church,。
and the house churches are receiving this letter。
from Jesus, verse 18.。
It says, "To the angel of the church in Thyatira write,。
"these are the words of the Son of God,。
"whose eyes are like blazing fire。
"and whose feet are like burnished bronze."。
Try to picture that, try to picture that.。
Jesus introduced himself as the Son of God。
with eyes with blazing fire。
and with his feet like bronze, you know?。
He's a shining figure, right?。
And by the way, calling Son of God,。
today we'll understand Son of God as the divine, right?。
Someone who is fully divine.。
Of course, Jesus is the truly divine Son of God,。
and He is fully divine.。
However, when you mention Son of God in those days,。
remember, we have to read the Bible。
with the context in mind, right?。
In the first century context.。
When you mention Son of God,。
automatically people will think of Roman emperors, right?。
Because the Roman emperors, each of them,。
each of them call themselves Son of God, Son of Divine.。
And if you pick up some of the coins,。
I know we don't use coins anymore, right?。
Usually we don't use cash, but in those days,。
when they use cash,。
when they have little coins in their pocket,。
when they do trading and buying something,。
they look at the coin,。
and the coins usually have the head of the emperor,。
and on the reverse side, you will see other symbol。
with some of the inscription on it called Son of God.。
So coins were a propaganda machine.。
It was like the TV station of today,。
and the Roman emperor are claiming to be the Son of God.。
But Jesus said, "I am the Son of God, not the emperor.。
"I am the true Son of God."。
And his eyes are like blazing fire,。
and his feet are like bronze, shining bronze, right?。
All of these images actually are mentioned in chapter one,。
when Jesus showed up as the Son of God,。
rose from the dead to join the disciples.。
And his appearance reminds us God himself,。
because in the Old Testament, all of these phrases,。
shining, lightning, and blazing fire,。
all of them are imageries of God showing up.。
Now in the New Testament, God of the New Testament is Jesus.。
So God of the Old and the New Testament are the same God,。
right?。
Jesus claiming himself to be the Son of God.。
Indeed, he's the Son of God,。
and he is with a blazing fire and a bronze color,。
remind us of God himself, and he is the judge.。
He is the supreme sovereign over the whole creation,。
just like God in the Old Testament.。
So Jesus show up himself and introduce himself。
to the church in Thyatira as the Son of God。
with blazing fire as the righteous judge.。
He said, "I know your deeds.。
"I know your works, your love, your faith,。
"your service, your perseverance,。
"that you are now doing more than you did at first."。
Is that a good church?。
I think this is a church that deserve praises, right?。
You know, this series, we ask the question,。
what does Christ think of his church, right?。
When he think of this church in Thyatira,。
he find that this church, this small community,。
is a Christ-honoring community。
because they have good works.。
What are the good works?。
He said, "I know your deeds.。
"I know your good works."。
And he unpacked that.。
What does it mean by showing good works?。
Your love, your love for God, your love for one another,。
and your faith, you rely on God, you trust in God,。
and your service, using your gifts to build up the church.。
And lastly, it's perseverance, your patience,。
in the midst of hardship, in the midst of difficulties,。
right?。
You know, a part of our package of following Christ。
is actually not so comfortable。
because we will encounter a lot of difficulties.。
We will encounter a lot of challenges, right?。
I'm sure you, since you are following Christ。
since day one, you have encountered a lot of questions。
and a lot of doubts, a lot of difficulties.。
Believing Christ or relying on the Lord。
does not mean he will take away all the problems,。
but God promised himself to be your guidance.。
God is bigger than your problems,。
and that is testing our faith, right?。
And God, a God-honoring church is a group of people。
like us who have faith and love。
and service and perseverance.。
This is a Christ-honoring church with good works.。
And I pray and I hope that our church is like this, right?。
Now, it's not about size,。
it's not about how much money we have,。
but about our deeds, our good works.。
Jesus even praised this church by saying,。
"You are now doing more than you did at first."。
Now, how long has this church exist?。
Probably for some years, right?。
And how long you've been the Christians?。
Probably for some years, right?。
Or for some months.。
You are doing more than you did at first,。
and that receives the attention of Jesus, the Lord himself.。
So the first point here in this letter。
is that a Christ-honoring church has good works,。
has good works.。
Do we have good works?。
Do we have good works?。
Our love, our faith, can we show them to other people?。
Our service and our perseverance, right?。
And the most important thing, I think, is number four,。
is perseverance.。
In the midst of difficulties, in the midst of challenges,。
we still press on, and that is the essence of faith,。
right, we believe that Christ is more than enough。
to help us, and His grace is sufficient.。
And point number one, point number one is。
the church has good works,。
and that is a church that is honoring Christ.。
Point number two here is that a Christ-honoring church。
takes the truth seriously.。
Let's continue to read this letter.。
Now, this is a long letter,。
let me just give you a heads up.。
It's a longer letter than other letters.。
So a Christ-honoring church is a church with good works.。
And not only that, they take the truth,。
they have to take the truth seriously.。
If you take the truth seriously, then your church,。
then our church, will be honoring to Christ.。
Verse 20 and following.。
"Nevertheless, I have this against you," Jesus said.。
"You tolerate that woman, Jezebel,。
"who calls herself a prophetess.。
"By her teachings, she misleads my servants。
"into sexual immorality,。
"and the eating of food sacrificed to idols."。
Now, this is a pretty stern warning, right?。
Pretty stern warning.。
It's not very comfortable words.。
However, we have to hear this.。
We have to hear this.。
The questions in Thyatira,。
Jesus has something against them.。
And what is that?。
Here we see the name Jezebel.。
Jezebel, who is this?。
Who is Jezebel?。
We call any stories about Jezebel?。
It's a female name, right?。
The other day, I was talking to some of the young couples,。
and they were trying to think of names for their babies.。
Now, if you have a baby girl,。
you probably won't want to name your girl Jezebel, right?。
Got a bad rap, all right?。
Very, very bad name.。
Now, Jezebel was the wife of King Ahab.。
Remember King Ahab in the book of Acts,。
or in the book of Kings?。
It's a bad king, right?。
If you want to name your baby boy,。
don't pick this name, Ahab, right?。
It's a very, very bad name, right?。
It's a very bad name.。
Why?。
Because Jezebel was originally a pagan, a Baal worshiper.。
She worshipped Baal, and Baal, who's Baal?。
Baal is a storm god of Canaan.。
If you go to Oriental Museum in University of Chicago,。
by the way, it's a very good museum,。
and they got a lot of artifacts.。
People just don't know, right?。
Just don't know Chicago has such a great museum,。
Oriental Museum in University of Chicago,。
and they got tons of great artifacts,。
especially from the Middle East.。
By the way, it's free.。
You can go and just go in and take a look,。
and it's free donation, all right?。
If you go to Oriental Museum,。
you go to the gallery for Syria Palestine,。
you'll find this,。
the image in the middle,。
and that is Baal, B-A-A-L, Baal.。
It means Lord.。
Now, Baal is a storm god of Canaan.。
You know, people would have to worship。
some sort of storm god in Canaan,。
because if you're farmers,。
what you need in Canaan to survive is rain and storm.。
Whenever rainy season comes,。
which is usually the winter from October to March,。
those are the months you want enough rain。
to be rain on your farm and the land.。
Otherwise, you will have famine.。
You have drought.。
So you need to worship some kind of storm god,。
and in Canaan, the biggest storm god is Baal himself,。
and he will bring rain and storm to the land in season.。
You see Baal, what kind of posture he has?。
He has his right hand lifted up, right?。
You see the right hand, there's a hole in there, right?。
Now, we got, it's lost already。
because it's so many years ago, right?。
You find some of the old sites, the idol of Baal,。
and the hole actually holds a thunderbolt, you know?。
He's a thunder god.。
He can send thunder and send rain to the land.。
And Jezebel is a devout Baal worshiper.。
And Ahab married Jezebel,。
and Jezebel brings in this false religion,。
this false god Baal into the land of Israel.。
That's why it was such a big deal in those days。
because Israel is supposed to worship the only one god。
whose name is Yahweh, right?。
Whose name is Yahweh.。
He is the Lord, he's the true Lord, he's the true God.。
But Jezebel brings in a false religion。
and try to synchronize it, mix it with Yahweh.。
So Baal and Yahweh mixed together.。
And that's why you got the story of Elijah, right?。
He's a true prophet and he confront the king.。
He confront the people and lead them back to Yahweh,。
the true God.。
In any case, Jezebel enticed the entire,。
the whole nation of Israel to worship Baal.。
And here in Thiatira, the same Jezebel show up, right?。
Now, of course, it's not the historical Jezebel。
in the Old Testament, but it's probably a nickname。
for some kind of leaders in the house churches in Thiatira.。
And these false leaders and false prophets,。
they may be encouraging Christians to compromise their faith,。
to compromise their faith.。
You need to understand our Christian faith。
can be compromised, right?。
We can do lip service to God,。
but in the bottom of our heart,。
we probably are compromising our commitment to God.。
There are two things mentioned here.。
By the way, the painting on the left is Jezebel, right?。
Isn't she beautiful?。
That's why she could entice the entire nation。
to worship Baal.。
The two things in this letter mentioned,。
Jesus have against the church in Thiatira.。
Sexual immorality.。
The all pagan religions in general。
are very relaxed in sexuality, in sexual life.。
All kinds of sexual activities outside the marriage covenant。
are permitted, tolerated, or if not encouraged.。
So that's one thing Jesus had against the church.。
The second thing is eating of food sacrificed to idols.。
Now in the pagan world, in the Roman world,。
in the first century,。
you will encounter a lot of different festivals.。
So moon festivals, by the way,。
we just had the mid autumn festival, right?。
It's actually kind of a pagan festival.。
But in the Roman world,。
the pagan festivals happen in pagan temples.。
And you need some sort of membership.。
You need some sort of association。
in order to get the benefit out of it.。
Now, what kind of benefit are being offered。
in pagan temples, in pagan festivals?。
Well, some of the benefits would be eating the meat.。
You know, in the most of the Mediterranean diet。
are vegetarian, right?。
They don't get meat often.。
But from time to time, they would join.。
You have to join some sort of temple association.。
And you have to come to their faith。
to worship their false god。
in order to get those benefits, right?。
Just like today, if you want to get good meat,。
you need to have a Costco membership, right?。
You got to pay for the membership, right?。
Well, lucky for us,。
Costco is just a secular warehouse, right?。
So it would not compromise our faith。
if we go to Costco today or join their membership.。
But not so in the first century.。
In the first century, Costco is a temple, right?。
You need to go to the warehouse。
and you have to worship some kind of pagan gods。
in order to get in.。
You know, I have a friend in Taiwan。
who just visited Chicago not too long ago.。
And he moved from Hong Kong with his young kid,。
small family, moved from Hong Kong to Taiwan for some years.。
And we were having coffee and he shared with me。
why he stayed in Taiwan for a few years only。
and he could not tolerate anymore.。
And he moved back to Hong Kong.。
And the reality was that in the city that he lived in, Taiwan。
you know, the kids, the children,。
they go to elementary school, right?。
But from time to time, especially before their final exam,。
before some sort of standardized test,。
you know, he said the whole class of kids。
would have to go to some sort of temple next door.。
You know, they got to worship,。
they got to get some lucks or some fortunes from the temple.。
And then before they take the test, you know.。
So it's kind of very, very strange and pagan culture.。
And you have to pray to the gods and even small kids,。
you know, they grow up in that kind of environment。
and they have to pray to the pagan gods。
to bless their upcoming exams or whatever, right?。
So my friend said he just can't stand it anymore.。
He can't stand the folk religion culture in Taiwan.。
It's just too much for him.。
So he moved away.。
Now that kind of environment。
is kind of like the first century environment。
where the church or the Christians。
attempted to compromise their faith, right?。
To go to some sort of pagan gods to get the blessing。
and not knowing that the true source of blessing。
is actually from Jesus Christ himself.。
So they were being tempted to have to eat the meat。
and you have to get the membership,。
you have to get the association.。
And then the problem becomes you bury。
the line between Christians and pagans, right?。
You get one foot in there, right?。
Try to get some benefit.。
Now here's the key issue.。
It's compromising our faith with the surrounding culture.。
Now in America, of course, our society,。
our culture is less religious, right?。
However, we also face another challenge, right?。
Secularization.。
Because our society, our world is so secularized, right?。
And faith is being treated as something,。
you know, just private, just personal, right?。
You don't have to show it.。
You don't have to live it.。
However, if you come to the Bible,。
biblical faith is always public.。
Biblical faith is always witnessing, right?。
You bear witness to other people.。
I don't care what you do for your day job.。
You may work in the kitchen.。
You may work in the IT field, doing computer works,。
or you do, you know, any kind of works.。
Your faith has to be open, has to be public.。
That is biblical faith.。
And also, the faith in the Bible,。
if we believe in Jesus, is in essence exclusive, right?。
Yeah, in our environment, in our culture,。
we always treasure tolerance, right?。
We tolerate all kinds of views, right?。
But biblical faith is always down to the bottom.。
It's exclusive.。
Jesus is the way.。
It's not one of the ways.。
Jesus Christ is the way to God.。
You put your faith in Christ, you believe in Christ alone,。
and Christ has a claim for every single aspect of your life.。
When I first came to faith,。
one of the little book that helped me。
was "My Heart Cries Home."。
The book title is called "My Heart Cries Home."。
And it's a story about inviting Christ into your house,。
into your home.。
And in a lot of houses, there are different rooms, right?。
You got your bedroom, you got your living room,。
you got your kitchen, you got your different kinds of room,。
and even your closet.。
And the story goes, Jesus is being invited into the house,。
and he has to have the key to every single room,。
because Jesus is the Lord of all, right?。
Your entertainment, Jesus is the Lord.。
Whatever you watch, right?。
YouTube, TikTok, or whatever.。
Christ is the Lord.。
Christ is going to say, "Okay, you know, you can read this.。
"You can watch this, but you cannot watch this, right?。
"You have to follow my leadership.。
"Jesus is the Lord of everything."。
Our faith is comprehensive, right?。
Christ's worship should be comprehensive.。
You cannot mix some of your past religion。
with Christianity, with biblical faith.。
And again, our faith has to be public,。
has to be going outside and being open。
to invite other people, to see who Christ is.。
Remember what Jesus said,。
"We are the salt and the light of the world,。
"and we are being called to transform wherever we are."。
That little phrase has been really, really helpful for me。
since I came to faith.。
The phrase has to do with our relationship。
with the world, with the culture.。
And that phrase is, is love.。
That phrase is in the world, but not of the world.。
We Christians are in the world.。
We're not going to isolate ourselves, right?。
We are living in the world,。
but we are not of the world, right?。
You're living in the world, but not of the world.。
What a reminder for us.。
And the Christians in Thyatira are being wanted,。
wanted not to compromise their faith.。
So number two, point number two,。
is a Christ-honoring church。
will take the gospel seriously.。
It's exclusive, it's open, it's comprehensive, right?。
Verse 21, Jesus continues His warning.。
He said, "I've given her Jezebel,"。
or some of the false teachers in the midst of the church,。
"given her time to repent from her immorality,。
"but she is unwilling.。
"So I will cast her on a bed of suffering,。
"and I will make those who commit adultery with her。
"suffer intensely unless they repent of her ways.。
"I will strike her children dead.。
"Then all the churches will know that I am He。
"who searches hearts and minds,。
"and I will repay each of you according to your deeds."。
Boy, this is very, very difficult words, right?。
Not very comfortable words.。
But that's the treasure of the Bible, right?。
That's the treasure of the Word of God.。
It's not just scratching you, you know,。
just to make you comfortable,。
but it's to shake you up。
so that you will live a holy life, right?。
Jesus said, "I've given her time."。
Those who compromise their faith,。
given them time to repent.。
And use very vivid metaphor, right?。
The metaphor of adultery,。
the metaphor of sexual immorality。
to describe the act of compromising one's faith.。
And there was also warning for these consequence,。
and the consequence is nothing but death, right?。
Now, don't take these words like,。
okay, it's talking about child abuse.。
No, it is using the ancient way of saying things,。
ancient rhetoric to wake you up, to shake you up。
so that you know who you really believe in, right?。
That's the good news of the Bible, right?。
The goodness of the Bible,。
you have to understand the bad news first,。
that we are sinners, we are up for judgment,。
no one can save ourselves.。
And that's the bad news.。
Once we get the bad news,。
we understand what the good news is.。
We have to repent and turn around。
and run to Jesus and we'll be saved.。
And that is the warning for all of us.。
If we compromise our faith in any way, any single way,。
this is the time for us to repent and to return。
so that our faith can be vibrant, we can be used by God.。
Otherwise, judgment is waiting at the door.。
Verse 24, let me finish this letter.。
"Now I say to the rest of you in Thyatira,。
to you who do not hold to the teaching of Jezebel。
and have not learned the way of Satan,。
the so-called deep secrets,。
I will not impose any other burden on you."。
Hey, that's a good news.。
Some of the people in Thyatira,。
some of the Christians are standing firm in their faith.。
They're being solid in their commitment。
and they don't buy the teaching of Jezebel,。
the so-called secret, right?。
There's nothing secret about it.。
It's actually satanic.。
And Jesus is encouraging them,。
the rest of you who do not hold to the false teaching,。
I will not impose any other burden on you.。
I will give you strength.。
25, "Only hold on to what you have until I come.。
To him who overcomes and does my will to the end,。
I will give authority over the nations.。
He will rule them with the iron scepter.。
He will dash them to pieces like pottery,。
just as I have received authority from my Father."。
Now this is from Psalm 2.。
Remember Psalm 2 is a royal psalm。
that talks about God has chosen his son,。
his king on earth to rule the nations for him.。
And that promised son is kind of like David。
and finally being fulfilled。
in the person and work of Jesus Christ.。
So Jesus is quoting that psalm that applies to him.。
He will rule them with iron scepter.。
He will dash the nations,。
the rebellious nation in judgment,。
like breaking them into pieces like pottery。
because that is the comprehensive authority。
of Jesus Christ himself.。
If he does not have that kind of authority,。
he is not Christ.。
He is not the true God.。
He is not the true Lord,。
but he indeed has that kind of authority over everything,。
over all nations, over every single aspect of your life.。
And that's why we have to turn to him。
and worship him alone.。
28, "I will give him the morning star.。
He who has an ear,。
let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.。
The morning star, right?。
It's kind of a symbol for divine status.。
You know, the highest status。
is to receive that kind of morning star.。
And that is also from the Old Testament.。
Simply put, if you overcome,。
if you continue to believe in Jesus and follow him,。
if you listen to his word,。
Jesus has promised you the morning star.。
You will shine like morning star in the sky,。
in the dark sky.。
And that is the status of authority。
and status of dignity.。
And that is the promise to encourage each and every one of us。
to continue and not to compromise,。
to stand solidly in our faith,。
to hold on to our faith,。
hold on to the gospel.。
Now, there are ways to avoid spiritual compromise.。
Let me end with some of the points here, all right?。
How do we avoid compromising our faith?。
Number one, well, first of all,。
you have to identify your weakness,。
your shortcoming, where you have to compromise.。
So first step is to identify.。
You have to know your situation.。
There are some environments,。
there are some situations,。
some places that we put ourselves in。
that will lead us into compromise.。
We have to identify it, right?。
Bring it to the open, you know?。
Tell other people to pray for you, right?。
To identify the situation where you are often being tempted.。
And second is to repent.。
Confess our sin, right?。
Ask God for mercy, and He's always there.。
He's always there.。
Confess our sin.。
And number three is set boundaries.。
That means having the courage to walk away from temptations,。
walk away from places that will lead us。
into compromising our faith, our commitment.。
Number four is to renew our spirit and our mind.。
Now, there's no shortcut here.。
To renew our mind, to renew our spiritual life。
so that our spiritual life will be vibrant,。
there's no shortcut.。
We need much prayers.。
We need to continue to pray.。
For us, stick to our prayer life,。
pray consistently, and reading the Word of God, you know?。
Immerse ourselves in the Word of God.。
Knowing the Word of God is a daily habit.。
There's no shortcut.。
We have to build this kind of habit, right?。
So that our spiritual life can be strong.。
And also, we have to plug into the community.。
No one can be a Christian alone, by himself or by herself.。
We need other people, right?。
We need to serve other people,。
and other people have to encourage us。
and to keep us accountable, right?。
These are the ways that we can avoid spiritual compromising.。
Let's close with a short word of prayer.。
We're gonna pray to God,。
asking Jesus at this point,。
hey, are there any places, you know,。
I find myself compromising my commitment?。
Confess our sin.。
And ask God for the courage and the strength to walk away,。
and to renew our spirit,。
so that we can truly, truly worship God.。
Let's all pray together.。
(soft piano music)。
Father, listen to our prayer.。
Tell us the good news.。
So, though we are broken,。
although we are sinful,。
but you are there.。
Thank you for what you have done for us in Jesus.。
Come before you, we pray that you will remind us.。
Shine a light into our hearts, any dark corners.。
That we do have some places。
that we compromise our commitment to you.。
And I pray, and I pray that as I confess our sins,。
you'll cleanse us.。
Because you are righteous, you are holy,。
and you are full of grace.。
Father, cleanse each and every one of us.。
Cleanse our heart and our mind.。
Renew our spirit,。
knowing that you are full of love and full of grace.。
That's why we run to you.。
As we confess our sin, you will grant us forgiveness.。
Yes, indeed, you will.。
Thank you for your forgiveness,。
and thank you for your acceptance.。
I pray that you will renew our spiritual life,。
so that we will not continue to be weak.。
We'll be strong because of your grace.。
We'll be solid in our commitment because of your grace.。
Renew our mind and our lives,。
so that we can follow you wholeheartedly.。
Can worship you and call you our Lord and our Savior.。
And you'll lead our life.。
Let your comprehensive lordship over us.。
We surrender our life.。
Help us and cleanse us and renew our lives,。
so that we can be used by you.。
May our faith be open.。
May our faith be inviting other people。
to enjoy your presence, to come to taste your grace.。
May your Holy Spirit be with us as your church.。
And we are a community that is totally,。
totally committed to you,。
to serve you and to honor and to worship you.。
Thank you for listening our prayer.。
Thank you for your everlasting grace.。
Again, we come to worship you and we love you.。
Thank you very much for being our loving。
and gracious Father.。
In Christ name we pray.。
Well, once again, we are very blessed to have you,。
and have your presence and to worship together.。
And today we're gonna have Bible study。
and we're gonna have a quick lunch, right?。
No, Patrick, he's already outside and prepare.。
Is it taco today?。
Yeah, we have a taco lunch, all right?。
And then after the lunch, we will speak to two groups,。
Chinese group and English speaking groups,。
and we'll continue to dig into the Word of God, right?。
We will continue our study on the Book of Romans,。
and chapter one and two.。
And I tell you, we have to understand these two chapters.。
The good news of Jesus Christ。
come from these two chapters, all right?。
So stay with us, all right?。
