- Good to see you all, and as Kelly mentioned,。
many of us are sick, especially with little children.。
It's been a very tough season, it's a flu season.。
And this flu season is more severe than what we had,。
what I had before.。
And even I got sick for quite a few days.。
As you know, I went to New York for five days。
of family vacation, and then I got sick.。
I went in the Christmas break,。
so there were tons of people there on the street,。
and I could hardly move in Manhattan,。
and that's what I expected.。
I would get sick, and I did, I did get sick.。
So I came back and been sick for five days,。
and my son and my daughter, they're all sick.。
I think my wife got sick too.。
I think she got sick before we got sick.。
Anyways, yeah, so we all got sick,。
and we just get in line to get sick.。
And some of our families are also not here。
because their children are sick,。
and Jinfan and Paul are not here。
because they are still, little Isaac,。
yeah, little Isaac is out of NICU,。
and thank you for your prayer.。
And they need time to adjust,。
to get into a new routine.。
And you can imagine how difficult it is,。
and it's quite challenging, and keep them in prayer.。
And as Kelly told us,。
remember the people in Los Angeles,。
how many of you have friends and coworkers。
or relatives living in Los Angeles?。
How many of you?。
Oh, you do, okay, all right, yeah.。
Make sure you call them and pray for them, yeah.。
I have some friends who live in Los Angeles,。
and they got evacuated, yeah, and it's very difficult, yeah.。
And you see news stories reporting,。
you know, the whole town got wiped out.。
It's just horrible, it's horrible.。
May God have mercy on them.。
So good to see you all, good to see you, good to see you.。
(laughs)。
Anyways, we continue to worship God,。
and with the number of people,。
we should get in circle, actually.。
So that's what I've been thinking.。
Maybe we should get into circle,。
and we can do a Bible study or something.。
But, you know, not today, okay?。
In the future, all right, yeah.。
And we are on this mini series on the 10 commandments,。
and we said these commandments are called 10 words.。
They are not being described as commandment。
in the Old Testament.。
In the Hebrew Bible, never use the word commandment,。
something that you have to do or you shall not do。
to summarize.。
There's 10 things, actually,。
the word used by the Old Testament is actually words.。
10 words.。
So these are the 10 words, the 10 commandments,。
what we call, that God gave to the people of Israel。
when they are being constituted to be a new people of God,。
being saved out of Egypt by grace,。
and now they have a new identity.。
Being the people of God,。
they are given new principles to live by,。
a new lifestyle that says to God,。
"Thank you for saving me, God."。
And now we have a new lifestyle,。
we embrace a new set of identity,。
a new set of value system,。
and these value systems are being summarized。
by these 10 words.。
So we went through the first three commandments,。
and now we come to the so-called commandment。
or word number four, the fourth principle.。
And here it says, "Remember the Sabbath day。
"by keeping it holy six days,。
"you shall labor and do all your work,。
"but the seventh day is the Sabbath to the Lord your God.。
"On this day, the seventh day,。
"you shall not do any work,。
"neither you nor your son, nor your daughter,。
"nor your manservant, nor maidservant, nor your animals,。
"nor the aliens, the foreigners within your gates.。
"For in six days, the Lord made the heavens and the earth,。
"the sea and all that is in them,。
"but he rested, God rested on the seventh day.。
"Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day。
"and made it holy."。
Now, you have to remember the first audience。
who heard this word, this principle, were Israelites,。
and they have been living in Egypt for hundreds of years,。
for some generations.。
So when the Israelites are being saved by God out of Egypt,。
all of them are actually 100% Egyptians.。
You get my point, right?。
You get my point.。
All of their clothing, all of the stuff。
that carry with them when they left Egypt in haste,。
everything is made in Egypt.。
So actually the identity of Israelites。
was not very clear at this point。
because they just got out of Egypt。
and every one of them lived like Egyptian。
and think like Egyptian and lived like Egyptian before.。
And what we know today is in ancient Egypt,。
slaves have a 10-day work week.。
So you work 10 days and then you get one day off.。
And then you work another 10 days。
and then one day off, perhaps, or sometimes not.。
And then 10 days and then one day off, right?。
So this is a typical ancient Egyptian slave work schedule,。
10 days and then one day off.。
The Sabbath lifestyle says something different.。
Six days you shall work。
and then one day you shall take a break.。
And you take a break by keeping it holy。
to worship God, to serve God.。
And you have to imagine, if you're the first audience。
out of Egypt, Israelite, you have been in Egypt。
working 10-day week for generations.。
And then you come to the foot of Mount Sinai。
and Moses said, "This is what the Lord God has given us,。
"a new principle."。
Principle number four is six days you shall work.。
And then one day you shall take a break to keep it holy.。
And you're kind of like, "Wow, this is actually humane."。
Right?。
This is actually respecting human rights。
to take a break and to rest, not a workaholic.。
So you notice the scope of the principle。
is actually, it's encompassing the entire cosmos,。
the entire human society.。
Look with me, who shall not work?。
You shall not work.。
Your son shall not work.。
And in the original language, your daughter shall not work.。
Your man servant, male servant, and the female servant,。
your female servant in the original language,。
and then your animals, the cattle, the sheep。
that work the ground.。
And then lastly, the alien, the foreigners。
within your gaze.。
So seven categories encompassing the entire。
Israelite community, entire Israelite society.。
And the principle reveals the character of God.。
Who is God that would give this kind of principle?。
Because God is full of compassion.。
God is full of compassion.。
God is compassionate about especially slaves,。
those who have no power.。
Those who have no power to control the schedule.。
They're working under the Lord, the master,。
and they have to work.。
And God, by giving this principle,。
shows that his heart is full of compassion and love。
for those people who rest.。
And this commandment also explains。
why you have to keep six days to work,。
and then one day wholly to take a break。
and keep it holy, keep it sacred.。
For in six days, that's how the Lord God did his work.。
Remember Genesis 1, there was six-day creation.。
Definitely not a scientific report,。
but it's an artistic representation of how God work.。
God worked six days.。
He set up the entire cosmos.。
And then on the seventh day, Genesis 2, he rested.。
He rested on this seventh day and blessed.。
And because God worked this way,。
we, as the people of God, also need to work this way.。
It's interesting when we read。
from the very beginning of this document,。
10 words, 10 commandments,。
from commandment one to three and now to four,。
this is the first commandment that has to do with time.。
And schedule.。
Time and schedule.。
You know, how many of you still use the paper calendar?。
In the beginning of the year,。
you have to buy a new calendar.。
Only my wife.。
Yeah, right?。
So you guys use electronic?。
Google Calendar, something like that?。
Yeah, that's what I do, yeah.。
But you know, my wife is very old school,。
and we have to buy paper calendar every,。
by the end of the year, we buy a new calendar.。
So what I do is, every single year,。
it's one of my routine.。
Toward the end of year, I will go to Amazon。
or the bookstore to buy those monthly calendar.。
You know, you have to flip,。
and then there's a beautiful picture on top,。
and probably a quote here and there.。
And then you have these boxes, right?。
And toward the end of year, I always buy a new one.。
And I always buy a Jewish calendar,。
because it has the lunar calendar in there.。
So the lunar calendar kind of falls。
in line with the Chinese or the Asian lunar calendar.。
So like the end of this year,。
end of this month is the new year for the lunar calendar.。
So I look at the calendar,。
and I know what day it is in the Western calendar,。
and then in the lunar calendar.。
So that's what we do.。
You know, it has to do with schedule.。
And I want to ask you a question.。
You know, when you became a Christian,。
when you accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior,。
it has to do with, first of all, your time.。
You know, Jesus kind of,。
kind of restructure and reconfigure your schedule.。
Before you came to Christ, you know,。
every single moment, every day,。
you are the boss, you are in charge.。
But you came to Christ,。
it has to do with some schedule change, right?。
God modify our week schedule.。
So six days, of course, we need to work.。
But in general, in the general pattern,。
we take one day off to serve God, right?。
And that's why we gather.。
That's why we keep on gathering.。
Yeah, I know it's snowing today, right?。
The weather is not very nice,。
but we still keep it holy,。
because this is one of the commandments from God.。
And this is one of the application we should have。
the beginning of the year,。
maybe it's our new year resolution.。
You know, we keep it holy,。
set it aside and put it in our calendar,。
put it in our schedule,。
that we are to keep it holy the Sabbath day,。
because God bless this time.。
So we worship together.。
Now, commandment number five, principle five,。
is honor your father and your mother。
so that you may live long in the land。
the Lord your God is giving you.。
Now, today, when we imagine family。
in the Westernized society,。
now the son or the daughter,。
they get married and they probably move out。
and build their own family, right?。
Buy their own houses and live somewhere else。
or move out of town into somewhere else,。
because of job, because of different reality.。
But in the near East, in the ancient time,。
in the Bible time,。
most of the families are multi-generational.。
Multi-generational.。
Now, how many of you still live in your family。
multi-generationally?。
With your grandpa and grandma?。
How many of you?。
No, right?。
Most of the people don't live together。
with different generations.。
But in ancient Israel, it has always been the case.。
You live with your parents and your grandparents,。
and then probably three generations。
or even fourth generation living under one roof.。
And here it says, honor your father and your mother.。
You know, in Hebrew,。
Hebrew is a very interesting language.。
It says honor, in English translation,。
it has the connotation of something that is heavy.。
You know, when something that is valuable,。
when something that has dignity,。
that has value, that has importance,。
you kind of see it as something weighty.。
You know, it's like a dumbbell.。
It's something that is heavy.。
So glory and honor are something that is with weight,。
just like your backpack or your luggage or a suitcase.。
You have to carry it around.。
So in order to weight, to give weight to others,。
someone has to have the resources to do so,。
especially financial resources.。
In the ancient time, of course,。
they don't use electronic money.。
They use coins or silver or gold bar to do business.。
So something that has value has weight, right?。
You carry your silver around in the marketplace。
to buy stuff, and that's the sense here.。
Honor your father and mother is to give them the weight,。
give them the heaviness, because they need to be honored.。
They need to have the resource.。
In the ancient society, there was no hospice,。
there was no assisted living or something like that.。
Everyone lives in the house, right?。
Your home is the hospice.。
Your home is the hospital.。
And that's why life and death, especially death,。
it's not something foreign to the people in those times.。
They always see life and death in their houses.。
Baby being born, and then the elderly got sick。
and passed away.。
It's right in front of them.。
So here the commandment speaks of a resourceful。
person, a proper, you know,。
narrowly defined, is a resourceful male.。
He has to honor, give honor to his parents.。
And you think about it, the essence of the principle。
has to do with your heart orientation.。
This new principle, this new value says。
that one should not be self-centered.。
But looking after other people, especially parents.。
Because the parents have legitimate needs.。
And one has to give resources, offer resources。
to fulfill it, to honor, to make it heavy,。
to make it honorable, so that you will live long。
in the land.。
Now you is not singular, you is plural.。
It's talking about a nation, talking about a people,。
a community as a whole.。
So you can live long, you can continue longer。
from generation to generation in the land,。
so that you, your community, in this case,。
the Israelite community, their society,。
if they look after one another,。
if they take care of one another,。
they are not self-centered community,。
they always look after one another,。
care for one another.。
Their community will continue.。
Their community life will continue, enjoy longevity.。
That is the essence of the principle.。
Number six, you shall not murder.。
You shall not murder.。
Now this is a great translation, you shall not murder,。
because the older translation in English。
is thou shall not kill.。
Right, the Hebrew word here translated murder correctly,。
means taking innocent life.。
Thou shall not take innocent life.。
So that's why modern translation try to correct that,。
or try to connote that kind of sense.。
You know, it has to do with murder.。
Because the big deal about murder is that,。
because the action will destroy an image of God.。
Because every man and woman is created。
in the very image of God.。
If you take an innocent life, shed innocent blood,。
means that you assault God's image and God himself.。
As Pastor Chi has already preaching,。
or going through the Sermon on the Mount,。
I'm sure you know what that means.。
It's not about outward behavior.。
In fact, the entire document of Ten Commandments。
has to do less with outward behavior.。
It has to do with our inner heart,。
our motive, our heart orientation.。
So to hate a person is the root of murder.。
That's why that is the essence。
that the principle is trying to lay out.。
The ten words have the inner, your heart orientation in mind.。
They address our motive, our heart.。
So we're called in this principle。
to treat other people with compassion, instead of hatred.。
Principle number seven, thou shall not commit adultery.。
Now in ancient Egypt, polygamy and adultery。
were very common and it's very much so。
in the patriarchal society,。
because the men would treat women as property and objects.。
Here you shall not commit adultery.。
Again, the heart orientation,。
it's not so much like I don't do certain things.。
So I keep the commandment.。
The essence has to do with our orientation to do something,。
do our best to protect the family of other people,。
to protect the dignity of other people, including women.。
Again, in the Sermon on the Mount,。
Jesus also talks about the spirit of the law,。
the commandment, has to do with ungodly, lustful desires。
that try to objectify other people。
and use other people to satisfy our own desire.。
So that is the essence of this principle.。
Again, again and again, we see that the heart orientation。
is to protect other people.。
We are out here to protect other people,。
to care for other people, to protect their right。
and protect their dignity and honor.。
Number eight, you shall not steal.。
Now this principle assumes the right to own something,。
your property, your asset, your money,。
but it also sets a boundary for our possessions,。
for our desire to acquire things.。
Yes, we can own stuff, we can own asset,。
we can have our own property,。
but ultimately God is the owner of all.。
And we are simply stewards, managers.。
We're just managers.。
God bless us with different resources,。
financial resources and properties and all that,。
but God wants us to be honest with our relationship with him。
and our relationship with our things.。
And there is a boundary there.。
Now if you want to shed some light。
on how to apply this principle,。
we can always look for other scriptures。
as what we did for other principles,。
like thou shall not murder。
or thou shall not commit adultery.。
You look for New Testament,。
look for other Old Testament passages,。
how they apply it so that you know how to live it.。
One of the passages in the Old Testament,。
actually it's the last book of the Old Testament,。
the book of Malachi,。
actually the prophet is teaching the people of God。
and say, there was a debate here, 3/8,。
where a man robbed God, yet you robbed me.。
Now who said that?。
God said this.。
God said to his people, will someone rob God?。
Yet you guys, pointing to the Israelite people,。
you robbed me.。
But then you ask, there's a debate,。
and the people, we but by saying, how do we rob you, God?。
We never robbed you, this is our stuff.。
And God answer through the prophet Malachi。
in tithes and offerings.。
In your offerings, you keep it only to yourself。
because there is a portion of it that belong to God.。
If you do that, it is robbery, it is stealing.。
Again, it sets a healthy boundary for our possessions。
so that we are not so absorbed by our materials.。
Materialism is not divine principle,。
but faithful stewardship is.。
And that's what this principle is all about, principle eight.。
Principle nine, you shall not give false testimony。
against your neighbor.。
Now so often we read the service meaning of this verse,。
this principle, principle number nine,。
and it often has to do with, okay, don't lie, okay?。
You gotta tell the truth.。
But you have to pick on the terms here.。
It has to do with the context of legal testimony。
in the court.。
And in the ancient society, only the men。
have the social status and social power。
to be called upon by the court to give a legal testimony。
when a case is being processed, right?。
When someone is being prosecuted.。
And in Israel, a man may be called to give evidence。
in a legal proceeding.。
So the principle says that you have to tell nothing。
but the truth.。
A false testimony, therefore, is an abuse of your power.。
If you tell or you give a false testimony,。
you are engaging in character assassination.。
You are trying to assassinate someone,。
someone who may not be guilty.。
And here, the essence, it has to do with the use of power,。
use of our social status and our social means.。
And the essence is to protect and defend。
your neighbor's character.。
You shall not give a false testimony.。
You should protect the other person's integrity.。
Now, all of these principles, we come to number nine,。
all of them has a nature of revealing God's character.。
So you take this principle and you read it,。
and you have to think about why this principle。
matter to God, because that has to do。
with the character of God.。
And here, number nine reveals the character of God。
being truthful.。
God is a God of truth.。
God is a God of justice.。
So it matters to him when your neighbor is being accused。
without someone who defend for him, right?。
So thou shall not give a false testimony。
against your neighbor in a court.。
You don't abuse your power.。
You use your power, however, to protect。
and defend other people.。
Again, from principle number one to nine,。
the orientation has to do with serving other people.。
Protecting other people, uplifting other people.。
So you protect me and I protect you, right?。
We keep one another accountable,。
and we love one another in the covenant.。
Number 10, that's the last one.。
Now, this is interesting one.。
It says you shall not covet your neighbor's house.。
You shall not covet your neighbor's wife,。
men's servant, male servant, ox, donkey, the property,。
the stuff that your neighbor has,。
anything that belongs to your neighbor.。
Now again, in ancient Israel,。
when someone cannot pay a loan。
or because of disaster or because of sickness,。
he cannot pay a debt,。
the landlord has the power to take away。
pretty much everything.。
So the rich will become richer,。
and the poor can easily become poorer.。
And this principle has to do with drawing boundaries.。
Thou shall not covet.。
Those things do not belong to you,。
and you shall not touch it.。
So this commandment is kind of unique。
because it has nothing to do with our behavior, right?。
How can you enforce this?。
There's no way you can enforce this, right?。
Because your heart is coveting something.。
It's right here inside.。
Nobody can seize it, right?。
Nobody can see it, and nobody can detect it。
until you do something, make your action reality.。
Coveting is your heart condition.。
This commandment is unique.。
You cannot enforce it.。
It go right into, straight to the heart of the matter.。
It has to do with our greed.。
Set boundary for our desire, our desire to possess,。
our desires to have more.。
Now, the heart of the commandment, number 10,。
is contentment, right?。
You should be content with what you have.。
You should be thankful for what you have。
instead of all day long you trying to seek to。
increase your wealth, even at the expense of other people.。
Now, as you can see, all 10 commandments,。
all 10 principles are not some kind of。
self-improvement moral code.。
It is, however, a moral vision, right?。
You see, if every Israelite will take these principle。
and apply them in their daily life,。
what kind of society will it become?。
It will become a society that would love God.。
It will be a community that would take care of one another.。
Everyone is not taking care of themselves, not selfish.。
It's not self-centered, but other-centered.。
You come to the community,。
come to the community of people of God.。
We seek to love God, right?。
Protect God's right to be worshiped.。
And then love other people with all our hearts。
and love our neighbors as ourselves.。
The 10 words actually challenge the people。
to use their power and we orient their resources。
toward other people, to serve other people.。
The direct audience of the 10 words are actually male,。
father, because they have sons and daughters.。
They are married.。
You shall not commit adultery.。
They are pretty well-off because they are resourceful.。
Their parents are aging.。
In this document, 10 commandments,。
if you read it carefully and critically,。
the direct audience, of course it applies。
to every person of God,。
every people of God, and every Israelite is applicable.。
However, the direct audience,。
the first audience of the 10 words, the 10 commandments,。
are actually males, fathers, married people,。
and pretty well-off.。
In today's term, probably middle-aged men,。
middle-aged men and being kind of successful,。
stable in our career, in our family life,。
in terms of our property,。
in terms of our social status,。
everything is pretty stable.。
These 10 words are actually addressing。
directly to these people.。
In a way, it's addressing to all of us.。
We are all resourceful in our own ways.。
And we are blessed by God.。
And the 10 principles are a reorientation。
of our value system.。
When we come to God, when we come to know Him。
and follow Jesus, everything in our life,。
our time, our schedule, our resources,。
everything will be reconfigured, reconfigured.。
I would like to use the analogy。
of what it means to come to Christ.。
The analogy is kind of like, when you come to Christ,。
your operation system is different.。
Your operation system is totally different.。
The value system is different.。
The orientation is totally different.。
You cannot use the old operation system to run your life.。
You use the new one.。
And here, the 10 words are the new kind of。
operation system for our lives.。
We protect God's right to be worshiped.。
Only one God, no idol.。
Sabbath, keep it holy.。
We are called to reorient our heart。
to protect other people and to lift up other people。
with compassion and with care.。
It is no wonder in the Israelite society,。
if you flip the pages of the Old Testament,。
especially the first five books of Moses,。
the what we call the Torah,。
you don't find police in the Torah.。
You have priests, you have prophets,。
you have teachers, you have farmers.。
You have totally different, many different roles。
in the moral world of the Torah.。
But you do not find。
Israelite police department in the Torah.。
You know why?。
Because if everyone observe and take to heart。
these principles, there's no need for law enforcement, right?。
In such kind of communities, such kind of society,。
everyone is out to protect other people.。
Everyone is out there to care for other people.。
And actually, this is what Jesus said, right?。
If you sum up the entire Torah, he gave two statements.。
Love God with all your heart and all your mind。
and all your strength.。
And second of all, is love your neighbors as yourself.。
Now, if we as a church,。
if we will take it to our heart,。
what kind of community, what kind of fellowship can we build?。
It's not just we come here and consume something.。
We take something and we leave.。
If we come here and to contribute,。
to pray for other people, to care for other people,。
to love your neighbors, love your brothers and sisters。
as yourself and love God with all your heart。
and all your strength, what kind of fellowship?。
It will be a community pleasing to God, right?。
It will be a community totally different。
from all other communities and clubs out there,。
all other social associations out there。
because they're always born by their own common interest。
or by their own common benefit.。
But the church, the people of God are called to be different.。
Other-centered, love others,。
pray for others and care for others.。
And that's why in our weekly update,。
I have been doing something new starting this year.。
I wanna do some weekly update in video format。
and send it out to the social media group.。
And I'll do one in Chinese, in Cantonese,。
and one in English.。
And I always wanna encourage people to not only get up today。
what's going on in our church, but to pray for.。
Our church, to care for other people, right?。
We come to church and ask not just how are you,。
not how are you doing, yeah, how can I pray for you?。
How can I care for you?。
How can I give so that I can make your life more abundant。
to bless you, right?。
So we can bless each other.。
Let's all do that, right?。
In this coming week, take one of this principles,。
one of this 10 principles and apply it in your home。
and now church, whatever that is, try to apply it.。
Take it to heart.。
Remember to love God with all your heart and all your soul。
and all your might and love neighbors,。
your neighbors as yourself.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, you call us to be a different people。
because you are such a great and unique God。
and you save us by grace out of land of slavery,。
out of sin and out of death.。
And now we are being called to take up this new identity,。
to have the honor to be called the people of God,。
your church, your followers.。
Help us, God.。
Help us to have this principle transform us from inside out.。
Address our, we all ran our heart desires。
so that we are not just self-seeking.。
And you call us to seek you。
and to love other people as ourselves.。
Build our church in love.。
Build up our community so that we can fellowship together,。
care for one another and pray for one another.。
In this coming week, as we take some of these principles。
to apply in our home, in our church, in our lives,。
I pray that you grant us grace。
so that we will live as your people。
to honor your name in Christ name pray.。
Well, thank you very much for coming in the snow。
and there was a refreshment prepared by Kelly.。
Again, she's out here to serve us and we should appreciate.。
And please stay for a little bit for a time of fellowship。
and to enjoy the refreshment together.。
All right, see you next week.。
