Alright, thanks Kelly.。
Did you get a bottle of the sauce?。
- I got it.。
- The XO sauce, right?。
Yeah, so it would be great, alright?。
So let's pray together.。
Father, we come before you knowing that。
you hear our prayers and you are with us.。
Whether we are going through up or down,。
you are still our God and you are indeed our same God.。
And yesterday, today, and tomorrow,。
our Lord Jesus Christ remains the same。
and he is our faithful God and our faithful friend.。
We uplift our burden, we come before you。
and open our hearts knowing that。
you are the God who hear our prayers.。
So we come before you to confess our sin,。
confess our shortcomings,。
knowing that we are weak without you。
and we need your grace.。
As we worship today, we come and ask。
for your grace to draw us near。
so that we get to know you more.。
Know what you desire and grant us。
the heart to follow you, to obey you.。
We pray for our city as the DNC is coming。
into the city, it's gonna be a lot of traffic。
and there are a lot of different voices and controversies.。
I pray for safety and peace for our city,。
for our neighbors, and I just wanna。
come before you in prayer as well。
as the election is coming.。
There are a lot of different controversies。
and a lot of issues for us to think about。
and may your church, may your people。
be desiring your kingdom because。
only your kingdom is eternal.。
No matter who we vote for, no matter which side。
are we on, we know that we need to stand。
for your kingdom, for only the kingdom。
of our Lord Jesus Christ stands forever.。
And that's why we continue to build this church.。
That's why we continue to serve you。
and come to worship you because your people。
will remain forever and your kingdom,。
your reign remains eternal.。
And help us to fix our eyes on you。
knowing that your reign and your kingship。
is forever and let us worship you。
and serve you forever in Christ's name, we pray.。
Well, if you have your Bible, turn me to。
the book of 1 Corinthians.。
We're going through this long series。
and today is the conclusion.。
This is the eighth week and we introduce。
this verse of the week and we remember。
last week I introduced this verse。
from the book of Romans, chapter 14, verse eight.。
And shall we read together?。
Romans, chapter 14, verse eight.。
All right, let's do it together in English.。
If we live, it is to honor the Lord。
and if we die, it is to honor the Lord.。
So whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord.。
That's the book of Romans, chapter 14, verse eight.。
So often we forget that our life belongs to God, right?。
You're redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ.。
We are all saved by the grace of Jesus Christ。
and our life and 24/7, all of our time,。
belong to God, right, and none other.。
He has the ultimate authority.。
He has the ultimate lordship and leadership in our life。
and we should yield to his leadership.。
Well, every time we struggle with some of the problems。
in our lives, we need to go to God.。
Every time we taste the grace of God, right,。
God answer our prayers and help us。
in every single different way,。
we need to come to thank God because our life。
belongs to him, as it says here.。
We belong to the Lord, right?。
And that's why we need to understand。
there are basics in our Christian life。
and we went through different elements of the basic,。
the habits, right, of Christian life.。
We talk about the Bible, we talk about we need。
to read the word of God, we need to pray。
and we need to build our church life.。
We need to get into the habit of stepping into。
and plug ourselves into a community。
and so we want to conclude this series by encouraging。
each and every one of us to serve,。
to use our spiritual gifts.。
We went through a little bit in Romans chapter 14。
but today we're going to focus on this topic of serving.。
As a member of a church, as brother and sister in Christ,。
we are called to plug into a local community,。
belong to the spiritual family and live together。
and build a church together.。
And we come to the book of 1 Corinthians。
and first of all, some of the background, okay?。
So a background about this book called 1 Corinthians.。
And we know from the book of Acts。
that Paul found this church.。
He planned this church.。
It was on his second missionary journey。
and it was about AD 48, 49 and he was in Corinth。
and if you read the story in the book of Acts,。
Paul actually preached the gospel。
and a few of the people from Corinth。
came to believe in Christ.。
And then secondly, we need to understand,。
Paul returned to his home base in Antioch。
in the east side, you see that?。
You see that?。
In the Mediterranean east coast,。
there's a port called Antioch。
and down there is Jerusalem, right?。
So there were few missionary trips。
that Paul and his coworkers made。
to preach the gospel to the west, all right?。
The first one, the second one,。
he found the church at Corinth。
and then in his third missionary journey,。
it was about AD 50s,。
he went to today's Turkey。
and he stayed at Ephesus for three years.。
And here in Ephesus, in today's western Turkey,。
he heard about the situation。
in the house churches of Corinth.。
And remember a few years before,。
Paul planned this church.。
Paul came to this place。
and create a church and started a church。
and the church continued to meet.。
And while Paul was in Ephesus。
in his third missionary journey,。
he heard about some of the issues and problems。
and conflicts within the house churches of Corinth.。
And that's why he wrote one of the letters,。
what we call now First Corinthians.。
And if you understand, you know, First Corinthians,。
you read the letter,。
you probably have some impression。
of what that letter is all about.。
Paul tackled a lot of problems of the church.。
I always think that, you know,。
if my church is not like Corinthian church,。
then, you know, I should thank God, right?。
Because Corinthian church is full of problems,。
full of divisions and full of tensions.。
And in this long letter, 16 chapters,。
Paul wrote from Ephesus and send the letter to Corinth。
and to teach the Christians there,。
teach the house churches there,。
how to be united, how to worship God。
and how to take care of some of the problems,。
moral problems or, you know,。
the divisive problems that they have.。
And we come to chapter 12.。
And chapter 12 talks about three things.。
I wanna focus on this, these three points today.。
And in chapter 12 of First Corinthians,。
Paul is saying God desires,。
God loves unity.。
God would like to see the church,。
the people in the church to be united,。
not separated, not divided.。
And that's the first main point.。
God loves unity.。
God also love diversity in the church.。
That's why every single member has his role, right?。
And thirdly, God orchestrates everything,。
everyone together.。
So let's take a look at the first point.。
God loves, God desires, God delights in unity.。
When people praise God together,。
when people serve one another together,。
when people learn to love one another。
and hang in there and to build a community together,。
God loves it, God loves unity.。
Chapter 12, verse 12.。
The human body, Paul says,。
he's using an analogy, a metaphor for the church.。
He says the human body has many parts,。
but the many parts make up one whole body.。
So it is with the body of Christ, the church.。
So he's using the analogy of human body, right?。
Think about your physical body, right?。
We have different parts, right?。
And this is a perfect analogy for church,。
for us, for urban voice, for our church.。
Verse 13, he says, some of us are Jews,。
some of us are Gentiles.。
So culturally, we're different.。
Some of them are Jews, some of them are Gentiles.。
And then some of them are slaves or bond servants,。
and some of them are free, free men, right?。
They are not slaves.。
They probably own slaves, right?。
And by the way, slavery in the first century。
is not the slavery in the recent history。
of the United States.。
It's quite different.。
In any case, some of them are slaves。
and some of them are free, all right?。
So socioeconomic status, everyone is different, right?。
But they are put together in the church.。
But we have all been baptized into one body, the church,。
by one Holy Spirit, and we all share the same spirit.。
And Paul here want to emphasize the unity that we have.。
The unity that we have, that we are united together。
as sisters and brothers in Christ in the same church.。
It's not because we share the same interests。
or we share the same personality or background.。
He said we all share the same spirit, right?。
That's NLT, New Living Translation.。
You probably have a more literal translation。
that says we were all made to drink of one spirit.。
That's interesting, drinking the spirit, right?。
Because in the New Testament,。
spirit is often analogous to water.。
The spirit is like water.。
So we all made to drink one spirit.。
So the point is we all share one cup, right?。
We all share the same fountain.。
That is the Holy Spirit.。
When you became Christian,。
when you came to saving knowledge of Jesus Christ,。
you are sharing the spirit。
because the spirit immediately lives in you, right?。
Lives in you and lives in me。
if we call on the name of Christ.。
So we all share the same Holy Spirit.。
And the church is always one.。
And Paul is trying to emphasize this,。
although the church is made up of many different people,。
different walks of life,。
but we all share one thing in common.。
We belong to this one body, sharing one spirit.。
And God loves this。
because that's how God set it up, right?。
Sometimes we come to the church, we may complain.。
There are people who are unlike us, right?。
The people who are so different from us.。
And it takes time and it takes a lot of different trials。
and errors to relate to one another, right?。
To befriend with one another.。
And we don't like it, right?。
We always being drawn to the people。
who have the same chemistry, right?。
But that is not how God designed the church.。
God loves unity.。
And the unity is based on one thing,。
the body of Christ, the same spirit.。
God is delightful when he sees different people。
united in Christ in the spirit.。
And secondly, this chapter talks about diversity, right?。
Unity is not uniformity.。
Unity has a huge diversity in it.。
And Paul talks about it and try to unpack this truth for us.。
Verses 14 and following.。
Yes, the body, the human body has many different parts,。
not just one part.。
If the foot says, "I'm not part of the body。
"because I'm not a hand."。
That's interesting statement.。
You know, the foot is saying,。
"I'm not a hand so I'm not part of the body."。
That does not make the foot any less a part of the body.。
Verse 16, "And if the ear says,。
"I'm not part of the body because I'm not an eye."。
Would that make it any less a part of the body?。
Well, this is a rhetorical question, right?。
Of course not, right?。
If the whole body were an eye, how would you hear?。
If your whole body were an ear,。
how would you smell anything?。
So Paul's using the same metaphor。
and try to unpack body has many different parts, right?。
You have ears, you have nose, you have mouth,。
you have hands, you have feet, right?。
You know, a couple weeks ago I hurt my wrist。
because I was trying to fix some plumbing problem at home.。
And I was using the pipe wrench。
and tried to tighten the hose.。
And because Nathan was not helping me,。
so I was all by myself.。
I'm trying to tighten it because I hate plumbing.。
I hate doing water work because no matter what I do,。
it leaks, right?。
Water leaks and it's really frustrating.。
And that's why I hurt my wrist.。
And because I'm getting old,。
so it takes a long time for me to fully recover.。
I'm still kind of painful here.。
I need to see a physical therapist pretty soon.。
Yeah, right?。
(laughs)。
Anyways, if one body is not working,。
it really affects my whole body, right?。
So I mean, for the last two weeks,。
it's just irritating to me.。
You know, when I want to grab something,。
when I want to play guitar or something like that,。
I feel pain.。
Paul's using the same language here, right?。
Let's imagine for a moment,。
the foot says, "I'm not a hand,。
"I don't belong to this body."。
The foot says, "I'm not as useful as the hand."。
Right?。
The foot is probably looking at the hand.。
Hey, I'm not as functional as you are,。
'cause you use hands a lot, right?。
And the foot seems like being ignored.。
Now, we may feel these kinds of statements made by Paul。
hypothetical.。
They are not.。
Remember, I talked to you about the letter。
of 1 Corinthians.。
There are many different problems。
in this house churches in Corinth.。
And remember, the Corinthian house churches。
are suffering from many different internal problems.。
Well, it's like a body, you have different parts。
of having something wrong with it, right?。
Divisions, arguments, and people dislike each other.。
And Paul is not making some hypothetical situation here.。
He is actually probably tackling some real problems,。
because there are members in the church。
who really think that, you know, I'm not like him,。
you know, so I don't belong to this body, right?。
I don't have the same spiritual gifts,。
I don't have the same function, right?。
He's on the stage and I'm in the audience, right?。
So I don't belong to this body.。
I don't need to come, right?。
So people did think in such terms.。
Probably in today's language, probably you feel like,。
you know, I'm not a worship team member, right?。
So I'm not gifted in music.。
So I don't belong to this body.。
I don't belong to this worshiping community.。
I'm not gifted in, you know, working on。
or operating computers back there, you know.。
I don't know the sound equipment, right?。
I'm not very good at that.。
I'm very bad at that.。
So I don't belong to this church.。
I'm not a Bible study leader, I can't read Bible study,。
you know, I'm not educated enough,。
so I don't belong here.。
You know, this is a real situation Paul is trying to tackle.。
But Paul is trying to help us to see what God sees,。
not how you see things.。
Christians often compare ourselves to others, right?。
We naturally do that, right?。
And that's the culture of the world, right?。
That's the secular culture.。
We have to compare and contrast with one another,。
with other people.。
And we look at other people have different functions。
and we may have jealousy, we may have envy.。
But look at what Paul says here, verse 18.。
"But our bodies," we're turning to the same metaphor,。
"have many parts."。
God has put each part just where he wants it.。
How strange a body would be if it had only one part.。
Yes, there are many parts, but only one body.。
The eye can never say to the hand, "I don't need you."。
The head can never say to the feet, "I don't need you."。
Right?。
Simple enough, right?。
However, if we compare and contrast our own role。
with others, there can be two results.。
The first result is that the church will never grow.。
Right?。
The church will never grow.。
We come to the community and we compare and contrast.。
We look at each other, they're different, right?。
And they're a competition.。
They're comparison, right?。
You're more useful, I'm less useful.。
Or I'm more useful, you're less useful, right?。
The church will never grow the way God intends it to grow.。
That is, Paul is trying to say unity within diversity.。
God put us different ones together.。
It's like a body with many parts,。
many different functions, many different roles.。
Each of them is important.。
And none of us is unimportant.。
Right?。
So if we come here to compare and contrast all the time,。
there might be competition, maybe envy, maybe division.。
The first result is the church will never grow.。
The second result is that when you compare yourself。
with other people in terms of different functions,。
someone is more useful, someone less useful,。
you do not understand the heart of God.。
And that is the main point Paul is driving at.。
Notice verse 18 here.。
18, verse 18.。
The bodies are many parts, but who has put them together?。
God has put them together.。
Not the pastor, not the leader, not you, and not me.。
And according to whose desire。
God put all these parts together?。
It's God himself, his desire.。
God wanted us to be like this,。
diverse as diverse it can be.。
It's the very desire of God himself to create us,。
create the church, and make us who we are,。
and put us together to become one body, one church.。
Now, God does not just delight in diversity.。
You know, God look at us, God look at the church.。
Man, God is delightful.。
It's united, he loves it.。
It's diverse, he loves it.。
Also, God is not just delightful。
with diversity in the church.。
God has special attention to those who are weaker.。
Verse 22 and following, Paul continues.。
In fact, some parts of the body that seem weakest。
and least important are actually the most necessary.。
And the parts we regard as less honorable。
are those we clothe with greatest care.。
So we carefully protect those parts。
that should not be seen.。
Verse 24, while the more honorable parts。
do not require this special care,。
so God has put the body together。
such that extra honor and care are given to those parts。
that have less dignity.。
This makes for harmony among the many members。
so that all the members care for each other.。
You see the point?。
There are some parts, just like our body,。
there are parts that are important but not visible, right?。
The lungs, the heart, internal organs,。
they are not visible,。
but they are so vital to the whole body.。
Same thing for the church.。
There are some members who are less honorable, so to speak,。
or less visible.。
They don't have the spotlight,。
but they are as important as others.。
And Paul even emphasized we should pay special attention。
to those who are so-called weaker.。
Verse 26 and following.。
If one body part suffers, all the parts suffer with it.。
If one part is honored, all the parts are glad.。
All of you together are Christ's body,。
and each of you is a part of it, right?。
Now, who are the weaker members in the church in Corinth?。
I think most likely the weaker members。
are the least gifted.。
Remember we talked about worship before?。
We come to chapter 14 of 1 Corinthians。
and talk about the disorder they have。
when the Corinthian Christians gather together.。
And they privilege these spectacular gifts,。
like speaking in tongue.。
Those signs and wonders, right?。
Those great things, right?。
People can see it and they're so visible.。
And these people who have the spectacular gifts,。
they're privileged and they have more honors,。
they have more spotlight and enjoy more attention.。
And Paul is trying to subvert the order.。
He says in Christ in the church,。
the seemingly weaker members。
should be regarded as equally important.。
Special care needs to be given to them, right?。
The culture of the world is survival of the fittest,。
law of the jungle, right?。
If you're weaker, you stay low.。
Paul argues the other way.。
God sees things totally different from how we see it,。
totally different from the culture of the world.。
The least in the eyes of God,。
the least should be given honor, dignity, and value.。
I've been to church many, many years.。
I remember in my home church in California,。
when I was much younger,。
we were in this small church。
and we have a member, a young adult girl。
who came to church and eventually came to Christ.。
She was very, very shy, very, very timid.。
And she came to Christ and for years she remains that way,。
very, very passive, very, very timid。
because of her family background.。
But she continues to grow spiritually.。
So the Bible and pray and worship,。
and day after day we can see she becomes more confident,。
more confident.。
And along the way, we encourage her。
and pray for her to try different things。
and serve in different ministries.。
And finally, I really remember she tried。
to lead Bible study.。
And so we had the preparation beforehand。
and she led Bible study.。
And after leading Bible study,。
she thanked all of us for the opportunity.。
And we rejoice, we rejoice, we were so happy。
because she was given the attention.。
She was given the nurturing.。
And it's just amazing how she gradually transformed.。
By the grace of God, she became more courageous.。
She is a good example of weaker。
and less honorable member in this passage.。
And we rejoice and increase the honor for her.。
So God loves diversity.。
Last point, God orchestrates everyone.。
God orchestrates all.。
How does he do that?。
The passage continues.。
Paul says, "Here are some of the parts。
"God has appointed for the church.。
"First, apostles, second, prophets, third, are teachers.。
"And then those who do miracles,。
"then who have the gift of healing,。
"those who can help others,。
"those who have the gift of leadership,。
"and those who speak in tongues,。
"speak in unknown languages."。
Now, God is the one who puts together。
a wide variety of gifts and skills and talents together.。
Now, here is a list of spiritual gifts.。
I don't know which one you identify more,。
but we need to remember this is not an exhaustive list。
of spiritual gifts God has gifted to church.。
There are other lists of spiritual gifts。
found in other New Testament letters.。
But the whole point is Paul is trying to argue。
with a list that God is the one, not us.。
God is the one who orchestrate everyone together, right?。
Some of us went to Six Facts last week, right?。
I went with them.。
The whole gang we have, I'm the oldest one.。
And I thought it would be the last Six Facts trip。
I ever had in my life, because I'm getting old, right?。
But after the trip, I think I could go again.。
Because I can withstand the excitement, right?。
So some of us went there,。
and one of my favorite rides is Max Force.。
It's called Max Force.。
And it was our last roller coaster ride.。
And it's very exciting, right?。
It's very exciting.。
I was very happy.。
I was very happy, because the Max Force,。
it goes from zero to 78 miles per hour in 1.8 seconds.。
Think about it.。
Within two seconds, you go from zero to 78 miles per hour.。
You drive on the freeway, on a highway, right?。
Yeah, that's about, you're speeding, 78 miles per hour.。
But from zero to 78, it's less than two seconds.。
It was just a joy ride for me.。
And we tried that, that's our last ride,。
because in the park, we can often hear。
the launch noise of the ride.。
And the Max Force is just so loud.。
When it was launched a couple years ago,。
it was too loud, and the whole Guinea area。
could hear the noise.。
And the engineers had to make some modifications。
to the launch system, and adding some barriers,。
and stuff like that.。
And you know the total cost for this ride is 15 million.。
15 million, oh my goodness, right?。
You think about such a huge and complex machine.。
There are many, many different parts.。
And they all have to work together。
in order to provide the ride for the visitors, right?。
If there's one part that's missing, malfunctioning,。
the whole ride cannot operate, right?。
In fact, we were standing there for almost an hour。
for this ride, because there were maintenance.。
I don't know what the engineer did,。
and what went wrong, right?。
So part of me is like complaining, right?。
And part of me is thankful, right?。
Because there are gifted engineers。
who check on the machine, right?。
Otherwise I would not be able to go home, right?。
So my only complaint is the entire joyride。
lasts less than one minute, right?。
But my point is this is a complex and huge machine,。
and every single part, nuts and bolts,。
need to work together.。
The church is the same way.。
The church is a beautiful, complex, complicated,。
united, and diverse organism.。
Our church is complicated.。
I think all churches are complicated, right?。
You deal with people, deal with sinners,。
deal with different kinds of members.。
There's always complexity, right?。
Dealing with relational conflict, or different interests.。
But it's beautiful.。
That's what God decides,。
and He orchestrates everything together.。
And Paul continues to end this chapter by saying,。
are we all apostles?。
Are we all prophets?。
Are we all teachers?。
Do we all have the power to do miracles,。
to pray for miracles?。
Do we all have the gift of healing?。
Those are the gifts the Corinthians yearn for.。
Speaking in tongues, speaking in unknown languages.。
Do we all have the ability to interpret unknown languages?。
Of course not, right?。
We're all different, and every one of us is unique.。
Verse 31, so you should earnestly desire。
the most helpful gifts.。
And now let me show you a way of life that is best of all.。
Paul is saying not all of us are not equally gifted,。
not gifted in the same way.。
But he says, however you're gifted,。
and for sure you're gifted in some way。
that you can use to build the body of Christ.。
Paul is saying there's the most excellent way,。
and the most excellent way is the next chapter,。
chapter 13.。
Remember chapter 13 is the most famous passage in the Bible,。
probably the most famous because in weddings,。
it's often used, you know, love is patient, love is kind,。
they love poem, 1 Corinthians 13.。
It's written right after this chapter,。
and that is the most excellent way, right?。
When you come, when you come to the church,。
you need to see what God desires,。
united body and diverse body,。
and God put everything together.。
Yes, you're not gifted the way I am.。
I'm not gifted the way you are,。
but no matter who you are, your presence,。
your bodily presence, your physical presence,。
your service, and your talents,。
you're using your talents to contribute。
to the community of the church.。
We are all equally important in Christ,。
and we are one body, amen?。
- Amen.。
- Let's end with our verse of the week, all right?。
And remind ourselves, how can we contribute。
to this body, to the body of Christ?。
1 Corinthians 13, 13.。
Now, this is after the love poem,。
love is patient, love is kind.。
And verse 13, it said, "Now these three remain,。
"faith, hope, and love,。
"and the greatest of these is love."。
Now, what is love in the biblical sense?。
It's to serve other people.。
Put other first, right?。
That is love.。
Love is not sentiment.。
Love is loyalty.。
Love is commitment, and commit to serve other people。
over ourselves.。
That is love.。
And now, these three remain, faith we have,。
hope that we have, love that we have.。
Paul says, "The greatest of these is love."。
Because without love, the church is not possible.。
Without love, brothers and sisters in Christ,。
we cannot relate to one another.。
The love of Christ, the love of God.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, increase our love.。
For we confess sometimes we are loveless.。
With our lips, we sing praises.。
With our lips, we pray and say that you are love.。
And we thank you for your love,。
for your redeeming love,。
saving us from sin and from death.。
But we confess so often we just don't have love in our heart。
because we don't understand your heart.。
And your heart is nothing but perfect love.。
You want to see, you yearn to see the church united,。
yet using our diverse gifts to serve one another,。
to relate to one another,。
to have fellowship with one another,。
to spend time with one another.。
Father, we come and confess our sins and our shortcoming.。
And we pray that you will cleanse us。
and to cleanse our community,。
help our community, our spiritual family,。
our church to grow in love.。
We bind us to serve one another just as you serve us.。
Renew our loyalty, renew our faithfulness。
so that we, as we serve one another,。
as we build this body together,。
we see your presence and we taste your love。
in Christ and pray.。
Well, God bless you all.。
And next week, we're gonna come together as one body。
to serve and to worship God together.。
Please continue to pray for our city this week.。
It's gonna be in chaos and yeah, stay away from downtown.。
If you live in downtown,。
I know you have some traffic problem maybe,。
but pray for our city, pray for our neighbors.。
All right, see you next week.。
