to join us and we're going to have some fun time together.。
Exploring the land, we're going to, I guess,。
finish our series on this city called Jericho.。
So today we're going to talk about Jericho。
and I have two main points.。
One main point is I'm going to explain to you。
what Jericho is all about.。
It's a little town, not Bethlehem,。
but little town of Jericho.。
And then the importance of little things, all right?。
And I'll get to that.。
So first of all about Jericho.。
Jericho is a very well-known city,。
well-known story in the Bible,。
and who would you associate with when I talk about Jericho?。
Who is the guy who conquered Jericho?。
Who is the military general?。
Joshua, oh yeah, right, there you go, Joshua, right?。
Joshua led the Israelites to conquer the very first city。
as they entered the land of Canaan,。
and the land of the life of God, right,。
in the presence of God.。
So the first city that they conquered or took over。
was Jericho, and it's a very famous city.。
Not only is this a very well-known story in the Bible,。
the kids know it and the adults know it,。
but not only that, it is actually in human history,。
in the secular world history,。
Jericho is one of the most famous towns in the world。
because it is being known as the oldest city in the world.。
Oldest city.。
Now what I meant was humans, before they settle down。
and build their own city, for years, for centuries,。
there have been hunters and gatherers,。
and they go from oasis to oasis,。
from water source to another water source or food source,。
and they don't have their own home,。
until they somehow, they got together。
and organized themselves and built their own city.。
And the first city that they built。
by ancient people was Jericho.。
You're going back to 10,000 BC.。
That's kind of crazy, right?。
Those who went to a few museums,。
you read some signs and you find some display。
that are so old, right?。
Very, very old.。
So Jericho was the oldest city in the world.。
And then you have to understand why they gathered together。
to organize the first urban society in Jericho,。
because Jericho had a spring.。
And the spring, later tradition associated with Elijah.。
It's called Elijah's spring,。
because there was a story in later scripture,。
talks about the prophet Elijah,。
he did a miracle to heal the water of the spring.。
So that's why later traditions associate Elijah,。
the prophet, with the spring in Jericho.。
In any case, that is the oldest city in the world,。
and also because there's Elijah's spring.。
And the spring is still working, it's still operating today.。
So this is Jericho, and think about Jericho,。
especially for those who grew up in the church.。
You pick up the children Bible,。
and sometimes you find some pictures in the Bible,。
talks about Joshua and the Israelites conquering,。
taking over the city of Jericho.。
You will find some pictures like this.。
Big city wall fell down, right?。
As they shout out, cry out the victory,。
they are blowing the trumpet,。
and then the huge wall of Jericho,。
all of a sudden they fell,。
and then they took over the city.。
It's a dramatic, wonderful story to remember, right?。
It tells you the power of faith.。
If you really believe in God,。
if you really believe in the promises of God,。
and you act by faith, then the biggest city,。
the biggest wall, the tallest wall,。
will fall down in front of you.。
Now, but as I emphasize one thing,。
we have to read the Bible story in its own context first.。
All right, if you go back to the time of Joshua,。
it was about 1200, 1300 BC.。
What kind of city was Jericho?。
It was actually a very, very small town.。
This is the aerial picture of Jericho.。
You see the curvy road on the lower left?。
Above that curvy, modern road,。
is Jericho.。
Ancient town, the oldest town of Jericho.。
And it's not that big.。
It was, according to the most accurate estimation,。
it was just one acre.。
How big is one acre?。
How big is one acre?。
Any good student here?。
One acre.。
How big is one acre?。
It's smaller than a city block in Chicago.。
Smaller than one city block, right?。
It's a very small town.。
It's about 200 feet by 200-some feet, right?。
It's actually smaller than Chinatown.。
That is Jericho.。
It's actually a small town, right?。
So by some, most of the most reliable calculation,。
in the time of Joshua, Jericho had about。
probably 200 to 300 people, and that's it.。
It's a little town, but a strategic place.。
You know why?。
Because if you check the Bible map,。
you understand it is guarding the eastern entrance。
of the land of Kingdom.。
That is Jericho.。
And Jericho is a strategic place,。
although it's a small, small town.。
Now that may be surprising to all of us,。
because I grew up in the church,。
and I read Children's Bible,。
and Jericho was being imagined。
as some sort of very, very big city,。
and the wall is like the Great Wall of China.。
And then the Israelites circle around the city,。
and then every single day,。
and then the last day they circle around it for seven times.。
And then finally the wall just fell down, right?。
It's a very dramatic story,。
and we exaggerate the scene by later tradition,。
by later imagination.。
You go back to the Bible,。
the Bible is quite careful in describing。
some of the cities of those days.。
For example, after they took over Jericho,。
the next city to be taken over was Ai, Ai.。
Ai, Ai.。
And you see the description in 7.3.。
When the Israelites returned,。
the spies returned and informed Joshua,。
they said, "There's no need for all of us。
"to go up and attack Ai.。
"It won't take more than 2,000 to 3,000 men to attack Ai,。
"since there were so few of them in the city of Ai.。
"Don't make all of our people struggle to go up there."。
All right, so take it easy, guys,。
because Ai is such a small town, right?。
It will only take 2,000 to 3,000 people.。
And by the way, the word "thousand"。
should be translated as "military unit."。
So the people are saying to Joshua,。
"Well, we checked out Ai already.。
"If you want to take it over, you just need, what?。
"Two to three football teams, right?。
"And that's all you need.。
"You will take over Ai."。
But of course, they fail at the end.。
However, you see the description.。
The Bible actually is very careful。
to describe some of the targets,。
Joshua and the Israelites,。
as they conquer the land of Canaan.。
The second town is Hathor.。
Hathor, 1110 in Joshua,。
it talks about Hathor killing the king and captured the city.。
Hathor had one time been the capital。
and the head of all these kingdoms in the land of Canaan.。
So Hathor is a big, big city.。
That's what the Bible is telling you.。
It is the head of all the kingdoms,。
head of all the cities,。
one of the most, the biggest city in the land of Canaan.。
In fact, history tells us this is Hathor, the aerial picture.。
You see the upper city。
with some buildings on it and trees on it,。
and then the upper right,。
the flat land with some farms,。
that is the lower city of Hathor.。
Altogether, the size of Hathor is 200 acres.。
How big was Jericho?。
How big was Jericho?。
How many acre?。
Jericho.。
One, yes, one acre.。
Hathor is 200 acres, 200 times of Jericho.。
So chapter 11 talking about the taking over Hathor.。
In fact, Hathor is the biggest site in Israel today.。
It's a huge city in times of Joshua.。
Now, as I said, the Bible is very careful。
to describe the cities.。
And it's a small city, Ai, it tells you,。
there are only a few people there.。
And Hathor, it tells you it is the head of the kingdom.。
However, with that information in mind,。
you understand when the book of Joshua talks about。
the Israelites taking over different cities,。
it's very interesting.。
For Hathor, the biggest city in time of Joshua,。
the book of Joshua only uses 50 acres.。
15 verses to describe the battle.。
They did take over Hathor, but the Bible only spent。
about 15 verses to talk about the battle of Hathor.。
However, Jericho, the Bible used entire chapter,。
chapter six, to describe the first battle of Jericho.。
If you talk about the previous context, chapter six, right?。
The previous context would be chapter one to five.。
All talking about preparation of taking over Jericho.。
So the Bible at least used six chapters,。
six chapter long content to talk about。
the first battle of Jericho.。
The two spies went in there and they met someone。
called Rahab, the prostitute, right?。
And the prostitute Rahab changed side.。
And she sided with, she abandoned the kingdom of God。
and went with Yahweh, the God of Israel.。
Spent six long chapters to talk about。
one battle, the first battle.。
We're gonna read some of the verses。
and let me pick chapter six, the first five verses.。
Let's take a look.。
Why does the Bible spend so much time。
and so much content on describing the battle of Jericho?。
Such a small town, one acre.。
Now, the gates of Jericho were tightly shut。
because the people were afraid of the Israelites.。
No one was allowed to go out or in.。
But the Lord said to Joshua, "I have given you Jericho.。
"It's king, all his strong warriors.。
"You and your fighting men should march around town。
"once a day for six days.。
"Seven priests will walk ahead of the Ark of the Covenant,。
"each carrying a ram's horn.。
"On the seventh day, you are to march around the town。
"seven times with the priest blowing the shofar, the horns.。
"When you hear the priest give one long blast。
"of the ram's horns, have all the people shout。
"as loud as they can.。
"Then the walls of the town will collapse。
"and the people will charge straight into, up to the town."。
Now, this is the first description。
of the battle of Jericho.。
If you check out the entire chapter six of Joshua,。
there are only three parts.。
The first part is God's instruction。
to the Israelites, to Joshua.。
That is what we have just read.。
And the second part is the men of Israel。
executing the plan.。
And then the third part is kind of a conclusion,。
talking about the victory and the salvation of Rahab,。
the king and the knight in the town.。
Now, we're not going to talk about the details here.。
You can go home and read about the battle of Jericho.。
What I want to say is this is the first battle,。
first battle of a small town, right?。
And it's very interesting when you check out。
the book of Joshua, what we expect the book of Joshua。
to emphasize is strategy, military resources,。
how they prepare military strategy-wise,。
tactic, how to take over the first town, Jericho.。
Last night I was with my family.。
We went to this restaurant to have dinner together。
because my wife, it was her birthday yesterday.。
Anyway, so we went out last night,。
and she's not here, that's okay.。
So we were waiting for the table, right?。
And there were so many people in the restaurant.。
So we went down a couple blocks。
and went into a used bookstore, used bookstore.。
So we went into the bookstore, and there were so many books。
there, and I went past the section on military history.。
There were so many different books。
talking about military history.。
World War I, World War II, and then the Civil War,。
Vietnam War, and all this kind of famous battles in history.。
So out of curiosity, I picked one of those,。
and then I just skimmed through it.。
And then it talks about who are the heroes,。
and most of the heroes are the military generals.。
And most of the military history genre。
would emphasize on military tactics, right?。
How they move around and maneuver all these resources。
and take over some of the targets.。
These are what we expect from the military history genre.。
You take a look at the Book of Joshua.。
It really doesn't do that.。
It's very strange.。
It's a strange book, right?。
Some people would expect the Book of Joshua。
because it talks about battles and military stuff.。
It has to be a man's book, right?。
The men like to do that, right?。
Men like military stuff, don't you?。
Right, all the men here?。
You love fighting.。
You love wars and battles, right?。
The dramatic battles, right?。
The important battles.。
Not so much for women, maybe it's just overgeneralization,。
but that's the way it is.。
You take a look at the Book of Joshua.。
It's very disappointing.。
It doesn't really talk about military tactic。
and all this geography and all this military strategy。
and all this stuff.。
They don't.。
It's a very strange book.。
Now let me tell you some of the data.。
When the Book of Joshua talks about taking over Jericho,。
it uses 102 words only.。
102 words.。
For such an important city, the first city, 102 words.。
However, in the previous chapter, chapter two,。
talking about Rahab, how she changed side。
from the Canaanite gods to Yahweh, the true God of Israel,。
chapter two uses 86 words to talk about a woman。
turning to the side of Israel,。
believing in God, right?。
And then make a big statement about the God of Israel。
being the true God.。
86 words.。
So it's about the same portion, same amount of words。
talking about Rahab's story, same amount of words。
talking about the battle of Jericho.。
And in fact, in the portion that talks about Rahab,。
the prostitute, chapter two uses five verses,。
five long verses giving Rahab some of the most important。
lines in the Old Testament.。
Some of the direct speech that Rahab said。
to the spies of Israel was actually statements of faith.。
A theologically sound, solidly scriptural words。
that she talks about how the Lord is the true God,。
the Exodus, how the Lord has given the land to Israel。
and the Lord is the true God.。
And all that stuff, five verses,。
is a public theological declaration。
spoken by Rahab, the prostitute, the Canaanite prostitute.。
You skim through the book of Joshua,。
it's very disappointing from a military,。
typical military genre perspective.。
The heroes, the heroes,。
the heroes are not what we expected,。
not Joshua, not this fighting man of Israel,。
but a woman, prostitute, Rahab.。
That is what the Bible says.。
And try to emphasize the importance of small characters。
and the importance of small deeds done by them.。
They matter to God.。
And in fact, they are more important。
than the military fighting and dramatic content.。
The Bible put our focus on something。
that is more important in the sight of God.。
The small characters, Rahab, all these unknown,。
unnamed people,。
they believe in God, they act in faith.。
That matters to God.。
So there's, this is the importance of small deeds,。
that's my second point.。
In the book of Joshua, the small characters matter to God,。
matter to the biblical history,。
matter to what God is doing on earth.。
You and me, we are the small characters.。
We are not the famous people, right?。
We don't have a lot of followers on our IG, right?。
On your TikTok, right?。
Nobody take notes of you.。
But you matter to God.。
The small characters doing small deeds of faith.。
Couple months ago, in June,。
we took a family trip to New York.。
So we went to this military museum。
called Intrepid Museum in New York.。
It's a fascinating museum.。
So we went into a retired submarine,。
and then we went to a retired aircraft carrier,。
and it's just amazing, there's so much to see.。
There's so much more to see than a film museum.。
So I really enjoyed that day,。
and then I went into this gallery of aircrafts,。
and it has a one-to-one model of space shuttle.。
It's fascinating, right?。
We don't use space shuttles anymore, right?。
It's a retired program.。
So I was kind of taking pictures and reading。
all this information about the space shuttle program。
and all that, and then it just dawned on me。
there were two space shuttle disasters that happened。
in the history of the program,。
both related to space shuttle accidents.。
Now, back in 1986, those who are older like me,。
would remember back in 1986,。
NASA space shuttle Challenger。
exploded seconds after launching,。
only 73 seconds after lifting off.。
And the disasters claimed the lives。
of all seven people in the aircraft.。
All people on board died, including a teacher,。
the first civilian in the space program.。
And after the disaster, investigation revealed。
what was wrong.。
It was actually a small, old rain seal。
that got brittle because of the low quality。
of the old rain seal.。
It becomes brittle in cold temperatures.。
And that small, old rain fail,。
and then the entire aircraft, flames broke out,。
and then the spacecraft just explode in the air,。
right in front of the eyes.。
Exploded, and then disintegrated.。
That was back in 1986.。
The other big disaster was 2003.。
Columbia, and other space shuttle.。
Now, this time, the accident did not happen。
when it takes off.。
It actually took off, and then went into space,。
and did its thing, and then on the way back。
to the atmosphere.。
We entered the atmosphere, the space shuttle。
disintegrated into pieces in the sky of northern Texas.。
Again, killing all seven crew members.。
Investigation revealed what's wrong.。
It's actually a small piece of foam insulation,。
fell off, and then it damaged the left wing,。
and then, as the spacecraft continued to go。
in supersonic speed, it disintegrated into pieces.。
All people died.。
Now, the long investigation of the entire。
space shuttle program tells us there was something wrong。
actually from early on.。
It's that the crew members or the engineers。
trying to put together the aircraft,。
and program it, and all that,。
they actually made a lot of small mistakes,。
or small getaway.。
Some of the lower quality stuff that they used,。
or they didn't pay attention too much.。
And the engineers thought, "Oh, we could get away."。
And they did.。
And time after time, they got away,。
but at the end, disasters happened.。
They called the entire process of,。
"It's okay, we can get by."。
That sort of mentality, that sort of stuff that they did.。
The entire process they called normalization of deviance.。
Deviance is deviating from the standard practice, right?。
It's only a small deviation from the standard practice.。
Not quite up to par, but a little bit less deviance,。
but they normalize it.。
It's okay.。
We make excuse.。
All the small things,。
and the entire aircraft disintegrated.。
I think this is a perfect example for all of us,。
because if you think about it, life,。
it consists of many mundane things,。
many routine things.。
Sometimes we speak of spiritual discipline,。
spiritual habit, right?。
All of those things are really, really small.。
All of these changes that God expects us to do。
are actually very, very minor, right?。
In the big scheme of things, right?。
In this generation, there's a phrase called。
to be voked, W-O-K-E, right?。
To be voked, what does it mean?。
To be voked means to be aware of。
important issues in the world.。
Racial justice, social justice,。
those are the big things that we need to pay attention to.。
To be voked, that is what it means, right?。
There's nothing wrong with that.。
We should concern about justice issues.。
We should, the big issues.。
But you know, think about it.。
Life often operates。
on small details.。
The small and mundane things,。
they all matter to God.。
You think about your character growth,。
your spiritual attitude toward other people,。
your attitude toward things entrusted to you.。
Don't we all find small excuses?。
We all do, right?。
I do, right?。
And we always say to ourselves,。
what's the big deal, right?。
If I miss this, if I don't do that, right?。
If I'm less than faithful,。
I kind of deviated from the standard,。
that's all right, right?。
We're still alive, right?。
What's the big deal, God?。
What is the big deal?。
I can do it later.。
I can procrastinate, right?。
Because there's no big deal.。
The story of Jericho tells you,。
it's a big deal.。
The small deeds are big deals.。
Church life, the standard practice。
of a normal Christian life,。
how we relate to other people.。
When we are on the wrong, we apologize.。
We ask for forgiveness.。
Those are really small things, right?。
It's not dramatic.。
It's not something that will change the world,。
but they matter to God.。
The story of Jericho tells you life,。
it's like a cathedral.。
A cathedral is built by stone after stone。
and stone after stone.。
All these pieces have to fit together。
in order to build a big building.。
Your life is like that.。
If you're missing one of those,。
someday it will collapse.。
Someday it will crumble.。
The growth of your spiritual life is the same way.。
It's the small habit add on small habit。
add on small habit.。
And the habit will shape you,。
will mold you into the image of God.。
Without those habits, without those small deeds,。
your life cannot be built, right?。
Let's be reminded.。
In the sight of God, small deeds matter.。
The greatness or the maturity of your spiritual life。
or your character as a whole。
is measured by many, many small deeds.。
And what God expects us to do。
is to be faithful with all the small deeds.。
And it will add up.。
It will pave you a path to be successful。
in the sense that to be spiritual,。
to be God-pleasing, to be Godly。
in your character growth.。
Let us all remind ourselves and take a look at yourself.。
What kind of small things am I giving excuses to lately?。
That I tell myself, what is the big deal?。
Chill out, God.。
Can you chill out for a little bit?。
I just don't want to do that, right?。
Those are really, really important。
even though they are small.。
Just like Jericho.。
What is your Jericho?。
What is your Jericho?。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we come before you and。
we know that all the details of our lives。
are important to you.。
And sometimes they are even more important.。
They're not as big issues.。
We just pray that your spirit will remind us all.。
Help us to see that we need to be faithful。
not only with the big stuff,。
but the small details.。
(piano music)。
Remind us and help us to do some self-examination.。
To look into our lives.。
Are there any habits that we have forgotten?。
Are there any small deeds that we have。
given excuses to?。
Procrastinate, delay?。
Help us to be pleasing to you.。
Thank you for being our God.。
Help us to grow in such a way。
that will build up our character.。
That our being will be shaped by your grace.。
And help us do all the small deeds faithfully.。
So that our life can be built up one stone at a time.。
One layer at a time.。
Help us to grow into the image of your son.。
Remind us how we speak.。
Every single word is important.。
Remind us all of our meditation,。
our thought life,。
all the details are important.。
How we meditate on your word,。
how we reflect on spiritual insights.。
Help us build up our habits,。
our lives so that we can be pleasing to you.。
In Christ we pray.。
