Family, I hope that you are doing well this morning and we are going to continue on with。
Matthew chapter 6, continue on with this study of the kingdom values that Jesus points us。
to in the Sermon on the Mount.。
Now the last few weeks we've been talking about hypocrisy and specifically religious。
hypocrisy, hypocrisy in our faith, in our relationship to God.。
And we've been talking about how serious it is, how it can be such a strong temptation。
to us as people of faith, people who take our faith seriously.。
It can be a really strong temptation to pretend to be something that we're not.。
And that's one of the reasons that Jesus gives it so much space, this topic.。
He gives this topic so much space in Matthew chapter 6.。
But we have also talked about how devastating and serious the consequences of it can be。
for us.。
And that's another reason that Jesus gives this topic so much space.。
So we're going to finish up today, but we're going to get just a little bit out of order。
with the verses because as Jesus is talking about this topic of hypocrisy, in the middle。
of this, he pivots and he talks about the correct way to pray because the passage we。
were discussing last week, he tells us not to pray like the hypocrites.。
And then he gives us a definition of how to pray, a template for prayer.。
And then he goes back to talking about hypocrisy and kind of finishing that up.。
So what we're going to do is we're going to skip ahead to verse 16, finish up this topic。
of hypocrisy, and then we're going to go back to the section on the Lord's Prayer and kind。
of consider that separately on its own.。
So this morning, we're going to skip ahead to verse 16.。
Last week, we finished up there at verse 6, but now we're going to be down into verse。
16.。
And it says this, "And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they。
disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others.。
Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.。
But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen。
by others, but by your Father who is in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward。
you."。
Now, as we've discussed hypocrisy, we defined it biblically and we defined it in a few different。
ways.。
We defined it as pretending to be something that we are not or acting as if we are something。
that we are not.。
We've talked a lot about how we can do that in our relationship to God and our faith,。
that we can pretend to be righteous, pretend to be holy when we are not, and how that is。
damaging to us, but also to the people around us.。
We talked about how hypocrisy is also deceiving ourselves or others into thinking we can meet。
God's standards when we can't.。
Hypocrisy happens when we misunderstand God's grace and we decide that we can meet God's。
standards of holiness and righteousness in life through our own effort, through just。
trying hard and through trying to produce good works and through trying to be a good。
person.。
And we can't meet God's standards.。
That only happens as we repent and as we surrender to Jesus and let Him live through us.。
We talked about that.。
We talked about our other definition of hypocrisy, that it's really turning the spotlight on。
ourselves instead of God, trying to glorify ourselves instead of trying to glorify God.。
It's not that God wants us to hide all of our actions, but God wants us to make sure。
that in our actions that He is glorified, that the attention is put on Him and not on。
us, that our actions should not be to glorify ourselves, and especially not in our relationship。
to God and our faith.。
And we use this beautiful definition from the scripture that Jesus gives us from Luke。
18 verse 9 that says this, "He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves。
that they were righteous and treated others with contempt."。
And that's a great definition of hypocrisy in our faith, when we begin to trust in ourselves。
that we're righteous and treat others with contempt.。
And that's one of the devastating consequences of hypocrisy, is that we treat others with。
contempt.。
We're not kind and caring and loving towards others in the way we should be.。
As we've discussed it, we've gone through a few different things.。
We talked the first week about how maybe we've been hurt by hypocrisy in the church.。
We've talked about how maybe there were misplaced standards of righteousness and who defines。
righteousness that we had in our life.。
Maybe we were trying to live up to some standard that wasn't actually God's standards.。
It was just other humans that said, "You should be like this if you're a Christian.。
This is what it means to be righteous or to be a follower of Jesus or to be a Christian."。
And that wasn't God's standard, it was someone else's.。
And trying to live up to that damages us.。
We talked about those misplaced standards.。
We talked about misplaced expectations and how if we fall into hypocrisy or we follow。
someone who is in hypocrisy, that we can put expectations on them or on ourselves that。
God never meant for us to have.。
We can be deeply hurt and disappointed when we or that person we're following falls short。
of those expectations.。
We talked about misplaced pain.。
The fact that Jesus is not the source of hypocrisy.。
Jesus is not the source of the things that harm us.。
But sometimes when we encounter hypocrisy in the church or in our faith journey, we。
think that that comes from God or we think that that comes from Jesus.。
And so we think that that pain is the fault of God when it's not.。
It's the fault of other broken humans who have misinterpreted scripture or maybe they've。
just been plain wrong or maybe they didn't even know Jesus in the first place.。
And because of that, they've lived a life of hypocrisy.。
And then last week we got really convicting as we talked about our own tendency towards。
hypocrisy and how easy it is to fall into that, but also how serious it is.。
We talked about the fact that when we fall into hypocrisy in our life, that ultimately。
we're stealing glory from God.。
We're directing glory towards us that belongs to God and God alone.。
And we talked about the fact that ultimately we want to steal God's throne.。
We want to steal control from God.。
Control belongs to God and God alone in our life and in the lives of those around us.。
But we want to steal that away and give the image, give the perception that we're in control,。
that we can control what happens in our life and we can control our own success and our。
own righteousness and those things.。
And that's just not true.。
And we talked about the fact that we also want to steal destiny, God's will for our。
life, God's purpose and plan for our future.。
We want to steal that away and we want to insert in its place our own purpose and plan。
for our future.。
And that happens when we live in a place of hypocrisy, acting like we can control our。
own destiny when we can't.。
That's something that has to be surrendered to Jesus.。
And we talked about some of the practical applications of how to avoid hypocrisy through。
seeking humility and through doing what Jesus talks about, through being willing to do good。
works in secret that no one sees, that are hidden, because our heart is to do them out。
of love for God and love for others, not out of the recognition that we will get from anyone。
else and how important that heart is, that we do it because we want to please God and。
we want to love others, not because we're trying to please any other human.。
And today we're going to talk about one other aspect of hypocrisy that comes from the verses。
we're looking at today.。
That is a misappropriated burden, taking on a burden we're not supposed to take on.。
And we see some of that in verses 16 to 18 here.。
I'm going to read them again.。
It says, "When you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their。
faces that their fasting may be seen by others.。
Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.。
But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, that your fasting may not be seen。
by others, but by your Father who is in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward。
you."。
So what's going on in this passage?。
Jesus is talking about fasting.。
And maybe if you haven't been in church a lot, you're not sure what fasting is.。
Or maybe if you have been in church all your life, you still don't really know necessarily。
what it is.。
Well, fasting is something that God called his people to a long time ago in the Old Testament.。
And it continued in the New Testament.。
People have continued to practice fasting as a way to draw near to God.。
And fasting is when you voluntarily deny some of your physical appetites in order to seek。
after God.。
And usually it's fasting from food.。
It can be from other things as well, but a lot of times it's associated with fasting。
from food.。
So people say, "I'm going to not eat for a certain period of time," or "I'm going to。
only eat a few certain things for a certain period of time."。
And it's done not just for health reasons, although that might be a part of it, but it's。
not just done because it's going to help us to be healthier.。
It's done for spiritual reasons to say, "Okay, I'm going to deny some of these physical appetites。
so that I'm actually able to seek God more and to be focused on him and to really grow。
in my relationship with him and draw near to God."。
That's what fasting is.。
And that's what Jesus is talking about in this passage.。
So fasting involves intentionality.。
It involves a desire to know God.。
And it involves some sort of sacrifice and saying, "Okay, I'm going to sacrifice some。
of my desires in order to become closer to God and to draw near to him.。
And I'm going to demonstrate that I'm serious about God by denying some of those desires。
and appetites in my life."。
So when Jesus says that the hypocrites, when they go to fast, they are actually making。
it very clear and plain that they are fasting.。
When he says they disfigure their faces, what Jesus is saying is that the hypocrites were。
intentionally looking very exhausted and very ragged so that anybody who looked at them。
would say, "Oh, look at that guy over there.。
I mean, he's been fasting.。
You can see it in his face.。
He looks so tired.。
He looks like he hasn't even been able to clean up.。
I mean, what a spiritual guy."。
And again, it was something that was done for outward display to impress other people.。
And as we spoke about the last few weeks, to glorify themselves, to put the attention。
on them instead of putting the attention on God.。
That's what Jesus is referring to here.。
And so he says in verse 17, "When you fast, anoint your head and wash your face."。
What Jesus is saying is, "Don't be like the hypocrites that you try to put your spirituality。
on display for others and try to show people the depth of your devotion or how intense。
your sacrifice is so that other people will look at you and say, 'Wow, what a committed。
person.。
Their devotion to God is so deep.。
Their sacrifice is so great.'"。
Jesus is saying, "No, don't do that.。
When you fast, go ahead and wash your face and look normal and go about life normally."。
Because what is going on in a fast is supposed to be about your relationship to God.。
It's supposed to be about drawing near to him.。
It's supposed to be about denying your physical appetite so that you can connect more with。
God.。
It's not supposed to be about other people and impressing them in what they think of。
you.。
And so it's literally counterproductive to the fast itself for you to make it about other。
people's opinion of you and impressing other people with it.。
That's what Jesus is pointing out.。
And he's saying, "Your father knows that you're fasting.。
If you're sacrificing in some way to connect with God, God knows that.。
And he will reward you.。
He will reward you with a deeper relationship with himself.。
But you shouldn't do it to be seen by others."。
Now we've already discussed a lot this principle of not doing things to be seen by others and。
how easy it is to fall into hypocrisy there.。
So what I want us to think about today is just this principle of sacrifice.。
It's involved in fasting and it's involved in other parts of our walk with Jesus.。
And sometimes we think that that sacrifice is something that we're supposed to take on。
in order to basically be some type of super spiritual, super human, super Christian.。
And that's totally not true at all.。
And that's part of what Jesus is pointing out here.。
He's saying that was a problem with the hypocrites.。
They were trying to take this sacrifice on and let everybody know how great they were。
sacrificing so that everybody would see that they were a superhero.。
And that's not the point.。
Jesus is the hero, not his followers.。
And we do that too.。
Sometimes we misappropriate this burden.。
We try to take on some burden that we were never supposed to have.。
And we try to shoulder up under something and show that we are doing this great sacrifice。
for God.。
And we get a little bit of a Messiah complex.。
We get a little bit of this idea in our head that we're actually supposed to go out and。
save the world.。
Or we're actually supposed to really transform someone's life.。
Or we're actually supposed to turn someone around and take them from a place of struggle。
and darkness and confusion to a place of beautiful light and flourishing and peace.。
And we're not supposed to do that.。
God is supposed to do that.。
Jesus is supposed to save the world.。
Jesus is supposed to transform lives.。
Jesus is the one who takes people from hurt and brokenness and affliction to peace and。
joy and beauty.。
Jesus is the Messiah, not us.。
And we begin to operate from that place of having a little bit of that Messiah complex,。
thinking that we're supposed to save the world.。
First of all, there's an obvious amount of arrogance that plays into that.。
The fact that we would even think that in the first place.。
The fact that we would even think that we're able to save the world or transform someone's。
life in the first place shows that there's some pride in our heart that is not pleasing。
to God.。
We need to be in a place of saying, "God, I understand that apart from you I can do。
nothing."。
Like Jesus talked about when he talked about abiding in Christ.。
And we need to understand that.。
We need to say, "I'm not the one who's here to change things.。
I can't save other people.。
I can't even bring about transformation in my own heart, much less someone else's heart."。
So we need to get away from that arrogance of feeling like we're supposed to bear this。
burden of saving the world.。
But we also have to get away from the hypocrisy of that Messiah complex, thinking that we're。
going to save the world.。
That causes us to have to convince ourselves and the people around us that we don't make。
any mistakes, that we're perfect.。
And that leads us straight into all the things we've been talking about the last few weeks.。
This pretending to be something we're not.。
This acting like we meet God's standards when we don't.。
This treating other people with contempt because we think that we're more righteous than someone。
else.。
And so we have to stay away from that type of thinking because it leads us straight into。
hypocrisy.。
And we also have to stay away from that type of thinking because it is impossible.。
Thinking that we are going to save the world, having that Messiah complex, that leads us。
to a place of impossibility.。
We're basically trying to pick up a load that we cannot carry and we will ultimately be。
crushed by it.。
If we start to convince ourselves in our own mind that we're supposed to save this person。
or that person or this situation or this neighborhood or whatever, we are trying to shoulder a load。
that will crush us.。
As I said a moment ago, we cannot even transform our own heart, much less someone else's heart,。
much less transform a city or a neighborhood or a community or whatever.。
Now Jesus can.。
That's the beautiful thing.。
That's the good news is that Jesus can and he wants to work through us.。
We get to be instruments.。
We get to cooperate with God in seeing transformation happen in our neighborhood and in our family。
and in our friends' lives.。
It's not that we're not going to be a part of that, but we have to understand that we。
do not do that.。
We do not start it.。
We do not bring it to pass.。
Jesus starts it.。
He uses us to bring it to pass, but it's a work that he and only he can do and it's a。
work that he does as he lives through us.。
If we feel like we're supposed to save the world or save this person or that person or。
this situation or that situation, we are taking on a burden that was never ours to carry.。
We are misappropriating that burden and ultimately we're going to find ourselves crushed by that。
burden.。
And so we may say, "Well, you know, look at my sacrifice.。
I want other people to see that.。
I want other people to know that I'm carrying this heavy load," but we'll fall into hypocrisy.。
We'll fall into arrogance.。
We'll fall into impossibility and we'll be crushed by the magnitude of that impossibility.。
We cannot carry that burden.。
I think that's good for us to think about as followers of Jesus.。
We should not pick up burdens that we were never supposed to carry.。
We need to pray for the people in our lives, our family, our friends, our community, our。
city.。
We need to love and we need to serve with the love of Jesus.。
We need to let Jesus live through us.。
But we cannot feel like that we have to make change happen and if it doesn't happen, then。
it's our fault and that we have failed.。
That is not the role that God has called us to.。
God has called us to be an instrument, to be a vessel, to be someone that He can use.。
God has not called us to be the Savior, the Fixer, the Healer.。
We can't do that and we need to understand that.。
We need to operate and live our lives from a place that says, "I want to cooperate with。
God, obey and be sensitive to Him and put myself in the right position so that He can。
live through me, but I'm not here to fix it.。
I'm not the one with all the answers.。
I'm not here being proud and arrogant and thinking that I'm going to transform things.。
I understand that I am a broken human who God is at work in my life and as He works,。
He can use that work to help someone else, but it's not about me."。
Now speaking of misappropriated burdens and a Messiah complex and hypocrisy, I want to。
close out today with just a few thoughts about the upcoming election.。
Don't worry, I'm not going to try to influence your voting in any way or try to berate your。
political views in any way, so this is not going to be one of those weird, awkward conversations.。
But I just want to give us some encouragement and some things to think about.。
Obviously we're just days away from November 3rd and this election and this is a really。
important election.。
You don't need to hear that from me.。
I'm sure you've heard it from many people already.。
So I want to begin just with encouraging you to vote.。
Hopefully you've already been able to vote through mail-in voting or early voting, but。
if you haven't, I would encourage you to go vote on Tuesday.。
I understand, I know our political system in the US is really full of deception and。
hypocrisy and division right now and sometimes that makes it kind of distasteful to be a。
part of and sometimes we want to disengage, but it is something that's important for us。
to participate in as followers of Jesus.。
It's something that we want to seek to encourage kingdom values in our world through our politics。
and in the United States, God has given us this opportunity to do that through voting。
and so that's a really important privilege and responsibility that we should participate。
in and we should take part in and take that seriously and make sure that we do it.。
God has delegated authority to earthly governments for the purpose of protecting human lives,。
and promoting human flourishing and that's something that God wants us as his followers。
to seek to do, to seek to promote human flourishing through the way we participate and the way。
that we vote.。
So we want to do that.。
Now obviously this election is going to be really hotly contested and I have no idea。
what's going to happen or what the results will be, but I just want to talk about some。
of the things that we might feel after the results because this is an election that people。
feel very passionately about, very strongly about.。
People have deeply held emotions about this election and our politics is so polarized。
and so divided right now that most people have a side, they have a team, they have a。
candidate or they have a group of candidates or a party that they are really emotionally。
invested in and so if you're one of those people, then depending on the results of the。
election you might feel a lot of things after Tuesday, on Wednesday or through the rest。
of the week.。
And I just want to give us some perspective and some thoughts about those things, especially。
if we're experiencing some negative emotions afterwards.。
I understand that we may not know on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning or Thursday who。
the winner of many of the races are, especially with the pandemic and such an unusual year。
in voting.。
It may be days or weeks or even possibly months before some of these races are decided, but。
the reality is the way our political system in the US is set up, the elections fall into。
categories of winners and losers.。
Once the final tally is in, there are winners and losers.。
So first let's talk about the scenario of your side or your candidate or your group。
of candidates or your party or whatever being on the losing side, feeling like that you。
have lost in this election.。
And I want to encourage you to not fall into despair.。
Don't fall into frustration with other people.。
Certainly don't fall into frustration that causes you to dehumanize the other side or。
the other party and feel like they're the source of all the problems in your life or。
in our country or in the world.。
That's simply not true and it's dangerous for us to think that way.。
God always wants us to regard others as made in His image and as worthy of our love and。
respect and our kindness and our service.。
Even if we disagree with them, even if we think they're doing something wrong, God still。
wants us to love them, to pray for them, to care for them in any way that we can.。
And if they don't know Jesus, to seek to connect them with God so that they can come into relationship。
with Jesus.。
And that's how we should respond.。
So if you feel like your side is losing, don't get upset or angry at the side that wins,。
even if they are completely unkind and arrogant in their victory.。
And don't misappropriate the burden of saving souls or saving our country and think that。
the soul of our country is won or lost with elections.。
The reality is Jesus is the only one who saves souls and He's the only one who can save the。
soul of our country.。
And yeah, in the United States we have an executive branch in our government that has。
a president at the top of it.。
But as a follower of Jesus, you have a foundational identity that is much deeper than your ethnic。
identity or your national identity.。
And so you don't serve a president, you serve a king.。
Jesus is the king that you serve and the kingdom of God is unshaken by elections.。
And so the reality is that on the morning of November 3rd, you'll wake up as a subject。
of the kingdom of heaven.。
You will wake up as someone who is loved by God and who's been given a mission to love。
God and to love and serve the people around you, to let Jesus live through you, to love。
those around you.。
And on the morning of November 4th after the election, November 5th, every day going forward,。
you will wake up with that exact same identity.。
You will wake up as a subject of the kingdom of God.。
You will wake up as someone who is loved and forgiven by God.。
You will wake up with this mission of loving God and loving others and allowing Jesus to。
live through you to love others.。
That will not change.。
So there's no reason for you to feel despair even if you feel like your side has lost in。
the election.。
You haven't lost anything.。
Your identity is unshakable and it lies at a level that is untouched by human decisions.。
God is not changed.。
God is still on the throne.。
Jesus is still in control of the world and your identity in Christ is completely untouched。
by the election results or anything else.。
Now let's consider the other scenario and this is perhaps an even more dangerous one.。
What if you're on the winning side?。
What if your side wins and your candidate wins or your party wins or the candidates。
that you prefer win?。
One of the dangers there is that you might feel this sense of victory and kind of self-congratulation。
and slip into a sense of complacency or a false sense of security because you feel like,。
"Well, my side won.。
The people that I want to be in office are now in office and everything's going to get。
better.。
Everything's going to turn out great.。
The world's going to be just fine."。
And that can cause us to get to a place of complacency in our obedience to God and that's。
really dangerous for us as followers of Jesus.。
Our culture has attached a strong element of morality to our politics and our voting。
process and sometimes there's this underlying assumption that as long as you vote and vote。
in the correct way, which of course is defined differently by many different groups and many。
different people, but as long as you vote in the correct way, then you've done some。
type of moral good and you've done your moral duty and that's all there is really to do。
to fix things or to be a part of positive change in the world is just to go out and。
vote and to vote in the correct way.。
And that simply isn't true for the followers of Jesus.。
For the followers of Jesus, voting is very important, but it's only a very small piece。
of a much bigger picture of how God wants us to be involved in seeing change happen。
in our world and in seeing people cared for and in seeing the love of Jesus go out into。
our communities and our neighborhoods.。
And the reality is that no matter how great you think your candidate is and your party。
is and even if every race is run by your party and every candidate that you want to get into。
office gets into office, there will still be poverty even after those people are installed。
in office.。
There will still be racism and discrimination after those people are installed in office.。
There will still be violence and people killed and children killed after those people are。
installed in office.。
There will still be substance abuse and addiction.。
There will still be people abusing one another and oppressing one another.。
There will still be coronavirus even after your favorite candidate is installed in office.。
Your candidate winning doesn't mean an end to evil or corruption or anything else.。
So you need to understand that as a follower of Jesus, God still has so much that he wants。
to use you to do in our world.。
Our world is still broken and Jesus still wants to transform your life and use you,。
live through you to love and serve and transform the lives of others.。
Don't become complacent or comfortable because your side or your party or your candidate。
does well on Tuesday.。
Understand that God still has so much that he wants you to cooperate with him to be a。
part of.。
And remember that regardless of what happens on Tuesday, your identity is unchanged.。
You're not a winner or a loser.。
You're forgiven and loved.。
You're covered by the grace of Jesus.。
Your mission is unchanged.。
You're called to love God and to love the people around you.。
You're called to let Jesus transform your life and live through you to love others and。
transform the lives of people around you.。
You're called to live out the values of the kingdom.。
So go out and vote.。
Vote the values of the kingdom and then go right back to living out the values of the。
kingdom.。
Continue to love God.。
Continue to love others with the love of Jesus.。
Continue to serve and care for your family and your community and your neighbors and。
your church and your city.。
Don't despair.。
Don't get frustrated.。
Don't get complacent and comfortable and apathetic.。
Don't misappropriate the burden of saving the world.。
Don't think that burden belongs to you.。
Don't think it belongs to your political party.。
Don't think it belongs to your favorite candidate.。
It doesn't.。
Most of the people involved in politics probably have some level of Messiah complex.。
They think they can save the world, but they can't.。
There's only one Savior and it's Jesus.。
And the good news is that he is mighty to save.。
Let him do his work in your heart and in your life and in the lives of people around you.。
Let's pray.。
God I pray that you would help us not to personally misappropriate that burden and think that。
we are supposed to save the world or transform lives or change everything.。
We cannot.。
And it is arrogance and pride and hypocrisy for us to think we can.。
But God, also help us not to misappropriate that burden and place it on something else。
or someone else, on our politics or on our political party or our favorite candidate.。
Help us to see that only you can transform lives.。
Politics at best can maybe modify people's behavior, but that's really all it can do.。
Only you can change a heart and change someone from the inside out.。
And God, that's what our world desperately needs.。
And so I pray that you would help us to cooperate with you, to put ourselves in a position so。
that you can live through us, so that you can truly be transforming our hearts and live。
through us to transform the lives of people around us.。
God, may you be glorified in our lives and may we be used of you to love and serve others。
and to connect others with your kingdom so that more and more people are able to know。
you and to walk in your grace and to walk in your love and to experience your goodness。
and so that we see more and more of your shalom in our world.。
God, in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
