Good morning family. It's good to be with you again virtually. We're going to be back in Matthew。
chapter 6 this morning and continuing to talk about what Jesus is focusing on at the beginning。
of this passage and that is this theme of hypocrisy and how we as his followers, as subjects of the。
kingdom, as believers in Jesus should seek to avoid hypocrisy in our lives. And Jesus gives us some。
very challenging and convicting illustrations to help us see how we fall into hypocrisy.。
And he lays out in the first half of this chapter three different illustrations and he points out。
how we can fall into religious hypocrisy in our giving or our good works, in our prayer,。
and in our fasting. And so he really covers a wide range of what we would think of as our。
devotion to God and how it shows us that it has to be from a right heart, from a right motivation,。
or it can become hollow and it can become something that is empty and something that is even。
full of hypocrisy, something that's pretending to be something that it's not. Last week we kind of。
just did an introduction. We looked at Matthew chapter 6 verse 1 where Jesus says, "Beware of。
practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will。
have no reward from your Father who is in heaven." And we just kind of introduced this concept of。
hypocrisy and what it can look like in our lives. And we began to define hypocrisy in a biblical。
sense as the act of pretending to be something that we're not or acting as if we're something。
that we're not. We're pretty familiar with that definition. Actually the word hypocrisy that we。
use in English has roots all the way back in a Greek word that was the word for an actor or someone。
on stage. And so it carries that connection, that meaning of pretending or acting to be something。
that you are not. And that's a part of the word. But the other way we defined it biblically is that。
hypocrisy is when we deceive ourselves into thinking that we are meeting God's standards。
when we aren't and we can't and we don't. And hypocrisy is when we begin to think that we are。
satisfying God's standards, that we are righteous on our own, that we are right with God on our own,。
that we are doing everything that we should be doing in life apart from God. And we cannot do。
that. We cannot live rightly with God apart from God's help. We've talked about that so much over。
the past few weeks that Jesus wants to live through us and that's the only way that we can。
live rightly before God is when Jesus is living through us. And when we forget that and begin to。
think it's us who are going to make ourselves right with God, that we're going to earn something or。
that we're going to be full of good works on our own, then we begin to walk in hypocrisy. We begin。
to deceive ourselves into thinking we can meet God's standard when we can't and we don't.。
Today we're going to continue on and look at verses two to four that kind of fill out this。
first illustration that Jesus gives us of hypocrisy. We'll read verse one again. He says,。
"Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them, for。
then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. Thus, when you give to the needy,。
sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they。
may be praised by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you。
give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving。
may be in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward you." Jesus is calling out。
our hypocrisy here and calling out the fact that we do so many things to be seen of others and to。
impress others. We discussed that a little bit last week that Matthew 5, 16 talks about letting。
our light shine before men. But what is the focus in that verse? It's so that others may see our。
good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. That verse is talking about that light。
that shines. That is Jesus living through us. It's saying that as Jesus lives through us,。
it will draw people's attention to us and it will cause them to see God and to glorify Him.。
But these verses are describing something totally different where we do what we think are good works,。
but they're selfishly motivated and they're selfishly focused and they ultimately put the。
focus on us. When people look at our selfish good works, they don't see Jesus, they see us. God is。
not glorified, we are glorified. And that's what Jesus is pointing out here when He says。
that in verse 1 that if we do things just to be seen by others, that that's not going to honor。
God. There's not going to be any reward from God. He says that in verse 2 that the hypocrites do。
things so that they'll be praised by others, so that other people will recognize them and say。
good things about them. And He says that they've received their reward, that the only reward。
they're going to get is the hollow praise of other people. And He says when you're giving,。
just to remove that temptation, do it in secret. Don't even let others know what you're doing to。
give away or what you're doing to care for someone else or what you're doing to share with someone。
else, because it's not about what other people see and perceive and think about you, it's about。
your heart before God. That's what Jesus is calling us to. We're going to be talking more and。
more about hypocrisy over the next few weeks because Jesus gives us so much time in this passage, so。
much time in this Sermon on the Mount. So as we talk about it, we're going to kind of break it。
out into a few different sections. And the topic that I want us to think about this week is how。
hypocrisy, and specifically religious hypocrisy, how maybe that has affected us and how maybe that's。
hurt us and how we can deal with that in our lives. So I want us to consider that today.。
And I think when we consider religious hypocrisy and hypocrisy that we've encountered,。
maybe if we grew up in church or even if we didn't, just in some connection that we had to。
church or to people of faith, maybe we saw something that didn't quite line up where。
someone's words and their actions didn't agree. Maybe we saw something where someone asked us to。
live up to a standard that they weren't living up to. Or maybe we saw an even worse form of hypocrisy.。
But the point is, those things may have hurt us, may have affected us in some way. And probably。
all of us have dealt with that in our heart on some level or another. And when we think about。
those things, we have to see that it starts with a misplaced standard. That humans, we misplace。
our standards of righteousness. We misplace what the source of truth in our lives is. And that can。
lead to really dangerous and disastrous consequences. You know, some people do practice a self-righteous。
and dishonest religion. And that's what the Pharisees were doing. They were practicing a。
religion that was not honoring to God. And I'm using the word religion intentionally because。
the Pharisees were not living out a relationship with God. They were practicing a ritualistic。
religion. And it was not honoring to God and it was self-focused and it was ultimately。
self-righteous. It was a way for them to make a distinction between themselves and others and to。
try to show people that they were righteous and somehow better than other people. And to try to。
earn favor with God and to try to do good works that they felt like would get them into God's。
favor and also ultimately into heaven. And that's not what Jesus calls us to in the scripture.。
And unfortunately, a lot of people and even people in the church still try to relate to God in that。
same way. They try to live out a self-righteous ritualistic religion whereby they try to do a。
bunch of good works that they think will please God and do good works that they think will make a。
distinction between themselves and someone else and make them better than someone else and give。
them a sense of pride and righteousness in their goodness. And that's not what Jesus calls us to.。
Jesus actually tells a story about this and it's recorded in Luke chapter 18. In verse 9, it says。
this, "He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous。
and treated others with content." That verse right there could be a great definition of religious。
hypocrisy. Trusting in ourselves that we're righteous and treating others with content.。
Jesus goes on to say this, "Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other。
a tax collector. The Pharisee standing by himself prayed thus, 'God, I thank you that I'm not like。
other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week,。
I give tithes of all that I get.' But the tax collector standing far off would not even lift。
up his eyes to heaven but beat his breast saying, 'God, be merciful to me, a sinner.' I tell you,。
this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself。
will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted." Jesus gives us a perfect picture。
of religious hypocrisy here. He gives us this picture of this man who is doing a lot of。
external good works. From the outside he seems like the perfect guy. He's praying, he's fasting,。
he's giving tithes, but it's all for his own pride. It's all for the image that he puts forward to。
other people. It's not because his heart is in a place of humble devotion to God. And then there's。
this other man, this tax collector. In the first century Jewish culture, the tax collectors were。
hated people because they were people who were cooperating with the Romans to oppress their own。
people. So they were some of the most hated people in the society. They were considered。
totally corrupt and totally bad people. Jesus is saying, 'This guy who everybody thinks of as one。
of the worst people in culture and in society, he is being honest before God and he's saying, 'God,。
I can't even lift my eyes to look at you. I know how guilty I am. I know how broken I am. I know。
how much I need you.' And he's crying out in humility and that God actually hears and responds。
to this prayer and this cry of humble brokenness instead of this show of spiritual pride and。
self-righteousness that the Pharisee gives. And that still happens today. There are still people。
in the church, and maybe we've been those people at different times, who think that we've done。
something good and we've done a few right things in our life. And whether it's our church attendance。
or whether it's something that we've been a part of, we feel like it makes us better than someone。
else and we begin to operate in a hypocritical, self-righteous way. And that's wrong. That is not。
what Jesus wants for us. That is a misplaced standard. God's standard of holiness is a standard。
that applies to our heart, not a standard that applies to our external good works. Yes, when our。
heart is in the right place, beautiful good works flow out of that. It's not that our works don't。
matter, but it doesn't start with our works. It starts with our heart. And as humans, we can so。
easily fall into a self-righteous religion where it's all about the works. It's all about keeping。
the law. It's all about ticking the boxes. It's all about the external things that we do and say。
and don't do and don't say. And that's not what Jesus is calling us to. Another area that we see。
our misplaced standards is sometimes there are people put forward hurtful standards, impossible。
standards that are not God's standards. And we see that in the Pharisees. Clearly, that was one of。
the things that they were very good at. And Jesus calls them out for that multiple times in the。
Gospels. They were telling people to keep certain laws and customs and rituals and traditions that。
God never asked anyone to keep. And yet they were getting onto people for not keeping those laws or。
those customs or those traditions. And that happens today sometimes in the church. Sometimes people in。
the church choose to put a really strong emphasis on things that God never put an emphasis on.。
And they call people out for maybe the way they dress or some type of other cultural influence.。
They say, "Oh, you can't be a Christian and do this." Or, "You can't be a Christian and do that.。
You can't be a Christian and listen to this music or that or whatever." And people get really caught。
up in these external emphasis. And they ask people to adhere to standards that are not God's。
standards. And that's another misplaced standard. We need to go to Scripture to find out what God。
says are the standards of His kingdom and not take standards from the culture around us and not allow。
even good and well-intentioned things in our lives to become standards that we try to enforce on。
someone else. God may call us to a standard of holiness or righteousness or to a specific。
action or to avoiding a specific thing in our life in order to be right with Him. But if that。
standard is not in the Scripture and if He didn't call everybody else to it, then we don't need to。
try to enforce it in other people's lives. And that's another way that we sometimes have misplaced。
standards in the church is trying to make people keep standards that are not God's standards.。
And sometimes in the church, maybe we've experienced hurt from trying to keep an impossible。
standard. We talked about that a few weeks ago, Matthew 5, verse 48, where Jesus says we're to。
be perfect as our Father is perfect. We cannot keep that standard. And if we try to live up to。
that in our own strength, if we try to just be perfect and good and do everything right through。
trying really hard and through working at it as hard as we can, we will ultimately be disappointed。
and frustrated and crushed because we will not be able to do it. And yet some of us have done that.。
And that's a part of the hypocrisy that sometimes happens in the church. People misunderstand and。
they forget about God's grace. Or maybe they never understand God's grace in the first place.。
And they think that they're actually supposed to attain holiness through effort and through。
trying hard and through being something that they think they can be. And that was never what Jesus。
called us to. It's always been about God's grace. And Jesus made that clear in the beginning,。
that we couldn't keep that impossible standard of holiness, that it was only through Him,。
through His sacrifice, we can be forgiven, we can be cleansed. And as He lives through us,。
as we've been talking about, we can begin to live out the good works of the kingdom. And that's how。
the gospel works in our lives. But sometimes we forget that or we misunderstand it, and we try to。
live up to a standard that we cannot meet. And we get so frustrated and so hurt. Sometimes that。
leads to us walking away from faith or from church or from God and saying, "It's impossible.。
It's too hard. It can't be done. I'm done with it." Jesus never asked us to live up to an impossible。
standard. He asked us to repent and be forgiven and let Him live through us. Sometimes our misplaced。
standards are in our understanding of God. Sometimes we're hurt because we misunderstand。
God. Maybe we think God is just some angry deity that is just looking to judge and condemn and。
hurt us. That's a misunderstanding of who God is. And obviously, that will cause us to behave in a。
way towards other people that is hypocritical and out of balance. Or maybe we think God is just some。
type of Santa Claus God that He just rewards good behavior. And if we just do the right stuff, then。
we get what we want in life. And He gives us the relationship we want and the job we want and the。
house we want and the financial situation we want. That's a wrong perspective of God. And if we start。
to believe that, even in small ways in our mind, then we fall into hurt because we say, "Wait a。
second. I did what I thought I was supposed to do. I lived out the 'good behavior,' and then I didn't。
get the present that I wanted. I didn't get the present I wanted for Christmas. I didn't get the。
relationship I wanted. I didn't get the job I wanted. I didn't get into the school I wanted。
to get into. I didn't get the house I wanted." But that's not who God is. And if we thought that was。
who God was or someone else told us that was who God was, if someone told us that God was just。
rewarding good behavior, if someone told us that God was just all about health and wealth and。
prosperity, if someone told us that God was just trying to give us everything we want, then that。
hypocrisy can hurt us. Because we could say, "Well, I thought God said my life was going to be easy.。
I thought God said nothing bad would ever happen to me if I followed Him." That's not what God said.。
Jesus said that He came that we would have life and have it to the full. And having life to the。
full sometimes means experiencing joyful blessing from the hand of God. But having life to the full。
sometimes also means experiencing loss and adversity and difficulty and allowing that to。
shape us and to grow us and to form us and to mold us. And God uses those things in our life.。
And so sometimes the misplaced standard is that we have gotten some weird idea of God. And maybe。
we got it from someone in the church, maybe from a preacher or from a leader in the church who。
said something or taught something that wasn't really true to the scripture, and it caused us。
to get this wrong idea about God. And that form of hypocrisy caused us to be hurt. There are so。
many different ways that we can be hurt by hypocrisy in the church, by religious hypocrisy.。
Another one maybe is just spiritual abuse. Maybe there was a leader in the church that we observed。
or that we were a part of or someone that we read something that they had written or we heard some。
of their teachings online or whatever that they were just wrong and they were abusing people.。
Maybe they were manipulating people or maybe they were using people for financial gain or。
something else. There are those terrible things that happen in the church. There's stories of。
sexual abuse even in the church. And those things are terrible and they're completely wrong and they。
totally dishonor Jesus. But they do happen. First of all, there are people in the church who don't。
actually know Jesus. They're not actually followers of Jesus. They're not subjects of。
the kingdom. The Bible talks about that, that there are wolves among the sheep. There are。
people in the church who aren't truly in a relationship with God. And obviously people。
like that are going to abuse people and they're going to take advantage of things and they're。
going to try to take money from people or manipulate people. That's going to happen.。
But there are even people in the church who are followers of Jesus but they're。
misunderstanding God's word or they're misinterpreting scripture in some way and。
that's causing them to do things that are damaging to others. Or there are people in the church who,。
maybe they're a follower of Jesus but they are in bondage to sin and they haven't gotten free。
from sin the way they should have. And because of their captivity to sin, they are taking actions。
that are wrong. And that happens in the church. There is hypocrisy in the church and it doesn't。
help us as believers to try to hide it or to try to cover up or to try to ignore it or to try to。
pretend it doesn't exist. That actually makes it worse. We need to be honest about it and we need。
to do what Jesus did and say, "Hey, this is not right. This is not the heart of the gospel for。
people to do things to be seen by others, for people to hide who they really are, for people。
to pretend to be something they're not, for people to stand up one day and act righteous and tell。
other people to be righteous and then turn around and do sinful or hurtful things to people. Those。
things are wrong and we need to be clear about that in the church. We need to call those things。
out. We need to lament over those things and mourn over those things and repent and turn away and。
turn our eyes back towards Jesus and towards following Him. Hypocrisy is so damaging and。
that's why Jesus is calling it out. So I want to encourage you if you've encountered hypocrisy in。
the church and if it's been hurtful to you, I want to encourage you. I want to say sorry. I。
want to apologize for that. I want to say as I just did that those things are real. They do happen。
in the church and it's wrong and it shouldn't happen and I'm sorry if that's happened to you.。
But I also want to point you towards Jesus. You know, one of the things that we can have misplaced。
when we encounter hypocrisy is misplaced expectations. Sometimes we have an expectation。
of a leader or another person in the church and we kind of put them on a pedestal because we think。
they're going to do everything right. We think they'll never let us down and we think they're。
really close to perfect. And when we do that, when we have misplaced expectations, we will at some。
point encounter disappointment. People will always fall off of those pedestals that we put them on。
and so we shouldn't do that. We should understand that even followers of Jesus who are genuine and。
who love God with all their heart and are seeking to follow Him, they are still human and they're。
still going to make mistakes too. We shouldn't put them on a pedestal. Only Jesus is perfect. Only。
Jesus is never going to disappoint us. Only Jesus is always going to be with us and never leave us。
or forsake us. Humans cannot take that place, cannot take that role that only Jesus can be in.。
And so we shouldn't put other people on a pedestal. Another way that our misplaced expectations。
express ourselves is sometimes we get caught up in the hypocrisy, right? Sometimes we maybe。
drink some of the Kool-Aid that someone else is drinking about how righteous they are and we start。
to drink some of our own Kool-Aid and say, "Yeah, I'm pretty righteous too. I think I'm really。
getting this figured out and I think I'm really becoming a really great Christian and I'm doing a。
fantastic job. I know I'm doing way better than the people around me so I'm in pretty good shape."。
We can start to feel that way and we can misplace expectations in ourselves. And when we do that,。
we're going to experience deep hurt and frustration because sooner or later we are going to fall off。
that pedestal and we're going to see our own brokenness and our own sin. And we can't hide it。
from ourselves because it's in our heart. We may hide it from someone else. We may act and pretend。
in front of others that we don't have any struggles but we know our own struggles and。
we'll feel ourselves falling away from God and we'll say, "I'm not who I want to be." And we'll。
be crushed by that misplaced expectation in ourselves. We were never supposed to expect。
ourselves or anyone else to live the perfect life. Jesus is the only one who can do that.。
What we should expect of ourselves and others, including leaders in the church, is to live a。
life that is surrendered to the rule and reign of God. To live a life that is surrendered to Jesus。
and to let Jesus live through them. That's what we can expect. And to be someone who is willing。
to repent when they make mistakes and who is willing to be forgiven by Christ and to be。
cleansed. That's what we can expect. But we should not expect ourselves to be on some pedestal of。
perfection because if we do, we will fall off and we'll be hurt by that fall. So how do we deal。
with the pain of hypocrisy? If we have been hurt in some way by self-righteous religion and we've。
experienced the pain of that, how do we deal with that? And how do we deal with that in a way that。
allows us to continue to have a soft heart towards God and a soft heart towards relationship with God。
and a soft heart towards God's church? I think one of the first things that we need to think about。
and understand is that hypocrisy often causes us to have a misplaced pain. What I mean by that。
is that sometimes we are hurt by things that happen in the church. We are hurt by things that。
other Christians or people who profess to be Christians may inflict on us. And we misplace。
that pain onto Jesus or onto God and assume that we've been hurt by God or we've been hurt by Jesus.。
And that's simply not true. Jesus is not the source of self-righteousness and hypocrisy.。
Jesus is not the source of our pain. Jesus loves us and desires good for us. But so often in our。
culture and in our own minds, we create these caricatures of Jesus where we think Jesus is。
something that he's not. We have an image of Jesus that's different from the reality of who Jesus is.。
You know, in our culture, people blame Jesus and Christianity and God for basically every evil of。
our culture, right? People sometimes think Jesus is some type of agent of European imperialism,。
or they think Jesus is a source of discrimination, or that Jesus didn't care about women, or that。
Jesus promotes tribalism, or that Jesus promotes conflict between people groups. And people accuse。
Jesus of all these different things. Those are caricatures of Jesus. Those are images that are。
created that are not true to the reality of who Jesus is. And if we want to know the true Jesus,。
we need to look at the Word of God and see who Jesus actually was and what he actually said.。
And when we do that, we see something very different from the caricatures of Jesus that。
we see in our culture and that sometimes exist in our mind. Jesus was not European. He was Jewish.。
He was from the Middle East. Jesus was not pursuing political power in any way. He was。
full of spiritual power and he was pursuing the healing of human hearts. Jesus deeply cared about。
women and elevated them to the place that God originally gave them, which is equal in worth。
and essence and value to men. Jesus was clear about that. Jesus actually called people out for。
their prejudice and their racism and their discrimination. Jesus spoke against it. Jesus,。
as he is in this very passage we're looking at today, called people out for their hypocrisy。
and their pride and the distinctions that they made between themselves and other groups of people.。
Jesus called people out for their ethnocentrism. Jesus did all of these things. Jesus was not who。
we often make him out to be in our mind. And Jesus was certainly not some type of angry or unkind God。
that wanted to inflict pain on people or condemn them or kick them out. That's not who Jesus was.。
But sometimes when we've experienced that in the church or we've experienced that from。
other people who are Christians or profess to be Christians, we think that that came from God or。
it came from Jesus. And that's simply not true. If we go back to the Word and examine who Jesus is,。
what he said, what he did, we find that he loves us and his message was one of grace, forgiveness,。
and calling us to live in right relationship with God, with the one who created us.。
Now, yes, God has standards and those standards are clear in the Bible, but it's also clear in。
the Bible throughout the Bible, but especially in the ministry of Jesus, that those standards。
are for our own good. Those standards are not to hurt us or to restrict us. They are to protect us。
and to care for us. Jesus is the good shepherd. He is caring for us and he loves us. And it's clear。
throughout the ministry of Jesus that the grace of Jesus is the only hope that we have for meeting。
God's standard. We are never supposed to try to be perfect and work it out and try hard enough and do。
it all on our own. That was never the emphasis. We are supposed to come to Jesus in humility and say,。
"God, I can't do this. I ask you to forgive me. I ask you to cleanse me. I ask you to live through。
me and make me into something better than what I am." That's the design from the very beginning.。
That's the gospel. We were never supposed to turn into some self-righteous super person who's better。
than someone else. That's a caricature that we've made in our own minds. John 1 is clear that Jesus。
is full of grace and truth. And I love that about Jesus. Jesus never lied to us and told us we were。
any better off than we actually are, but he also never offered anything less than complete redemption。
and restoration to a perfect relationship with our Father in heaven. That's who Jesus is. He always。
loves. He always cares. He always heals. And so if you've experienced hurt and you felt like maybe。
that was coming from God, it wasn't. If you felt like that was coming from Jesus, it wasn't. Jesus。
cares for you. He wants to heal you and he loves you. So I would encourage you, if you have。
experienced that hurt, to understand that that wasn't coming from God. It was probably coming。
from an imperfect person who inflicted that hurt on you, probably because of some hurt in their own。
life. Or maybe because they completely misunderstood God's grace. Or maybe they completely。
misinterpreted God's truth in the scripture. And their own confusion, their own hurt, and their own。
pain caused them to communicate something to you that simply wasn't true. That did not come from。
God. And then I would encourage you also to seek to practice forgiveness. Forgiveness is a totally。
radical kingdom value that Jesus taught us. And if you've experienced hurt because of hypocrisy,。
it can be really hard to forgive someone who has been a hypocrite, who has pretended to be。
something that they're not, and pretended that they were better than someone else. That can be。
really hard to forgive. But that's what Jesus calls us to. Jesus calls us away from the old。
human way of vengeance and getting people back, and calls us to forgiveness and to love. And so。
I would encourage you to seek that. Even if you've experienced something difficult, like spiritual。
abuse in some way, or some other type of abuse at the hand of a hypocritical person, that's。
something that you can seek forgiveness for. You may need to do some counseling and deal with that,。
especially if it was something serious. And there may be consequences of that. Maybe that。
relationship with that person will never be repaired. Or maybe that person, if it was serious。
enough, may actually suffer other consequences in some way. Some people have to actually suffer。
legal and civic consequences because of the wrong things that they've done. But that doesn't mean。
that you can't forgive someone. And that's what Jesus calls us to. To understand that that pain。
was not inflicted by God. It was not inflicted by Jesus. And that even the person who inflicted that。
pain was full of their own brokenness and their own sin. And we need to forgive. And that can be a。
difficult thing. It can be hard for us to do, but it gives us freedom as we forgive hypocrisy in。
others. Let's pray. God, thank you that you are so honest with us about our brokenness as humans.。
And God, I pray for anyone who has been hurt by hypocrisy in the church, God. God, I pray that。
you would help us not to ignore it or to act like it didn't happen or to try to explain it away. God,。
help us to be honest about how wrong it is and how devastating it can be. And God, if we've been。
hurt by it, God, I pray that you would help us to see that that did not come from you. It came from。
another human who was hurt and broken in their own life. And God, help us to not place that pain on。
you and understand that you love us and you want healing for us. God, help us to take that pain to。
you. It is real pain. Help us to take it to you and let you heal and restore in our heart. And God,。
help us to find forgiveness. Give us the power to forgive. Even if someone has hurt us deeply,。
God, even if there are consequences of that hurt that may not change, help us to forgive。
and be free of that load of bitterness or hurt or frustration or pain that we carry around. God,。
God, I pray that you would help us to more and more move away from pretending to be something。
we're not, pretending that we meet your standards when we don't, and move towards a place of。
honesty over our own brokenness, our own need for you. Move us towards a place of poverty of spirit。
where there is no hypocrisy in us, where we are transparent and open and honest, and where we let。
you live through us in a way that shares your love and your grace with the people around us.。
In Jesus name, Amen.。
