Good morning.。
Good morning.。
Okay, the mic is working.。
Today we will be。
in the book of James.。
So if you would all open with me your Bibles to the book of James.。
It is closer to the back following。
Hebrews. So I'll give you a moment.。
If you do not have your Bibles with you or on you。
we have it on the screen here.。
So we will be reading from its first chapter。
verses 1 to 18 and then we'll open。
in a word of prayer.。
James chapter 1 verses 1 to 18.。
James, a servant of God and of the。
Lord Jesus Christ. To the 12 tribes in the dispersion。
greetings.。
Count it all joy my brothers when you meet trials of various kinds。
for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness。
and let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete。
lacking in nothing.。
If any of you lacks wisdom let him ask God who gives generously。
to all without reproach and it will be given him. But let him。
ask in faith with no doubting for the one who doubts is like a wave。
of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person。
must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double。
minded man unstable in all his ways.。
Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation。
and the rich in his humiliation because like a flower。
in the flower of the grass he will pass away. For the。
sun rises with scorching heat and withers the grass. Its flower。
falls and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade。
away in the midst of his pursuits. Blessed。
is the man who remains steadfast under trial。
for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life。
which God has promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted。
I am being tempted by God for God cannot be tempted with evil。
and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is。
lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived。
gives birth to sin and sin when it is fully grown brings。
forth death. Do not。
be deceived my beloved brothers. Every good gift and every perfect。
gift is from above coming down from the father of lights with whom there is。
no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will。
he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of。
first fruits of his creatures.。
Let's pray.。
Father all praise all glory all。
honor be to you. For righteousness and justice。
are the foundation of your throne. The heavens。
declare your righteousness God and your people have seen。
your glory.。
In the coming moments we ask that you would speak that your word would。
be illuminated for us. Guard the。
ears of your people oh God that their feet would not be stumbled.。
Would you give them hearts that are renewed so that。
their hearts would yield to you and your spirit.。
Call us to be still oh God so that we may again。
find our refuge in you. All this we pray in。
Jesus' name amen. Okay.。
Let me go back to the beginning.。
That's too far.。
So I think you'll find。
that one of the most pressing questions that appear before。
us in our daily lives is the question what now?。
After all our lives are constantly changing。
because time is linear it moves in a linear fashion。
we are continually picking up new responsibilities.。
A few of us here are in school.。
Some of us most of us are in the workforce。
and there are a few of us here that are new。
parents. Those of us who are not going to be new parents we have。
friends who are being new parents. All new life stages。
all new circumstances everything is。
kind of inescapable. And with every change。
in our life we're faced with the question what。
now? What should my life look like? What is expected。
of me and what do I do now?。
And this question of what now becomes even more pressing when the。
changes in our lives are not just confusing or new。
but bad. Financial。
strain, relational strife,。
deep, deep loss.。
All of it is a heavy, heavy weight on our shoulders.。
And to further complicate things you'll find that there is。
more to this question of what now?。
It's a Sunday morning. You guys are here. You chose to be。
here. And so the question for you is。
as people of God how are you expected。
to live? If you look again with。
me to James chapter 1 verse 1 you'll find that the。
audiences of this letter are the 12 tribes of。
the dispersion. James a servant of God of the Lord Jesus。
Christ to the 12 tribes of the dispersion. These are the。
Jewish Christians living outside of Palestine. Those living in a foreign。
and famished land. They are displaced.。
They're poverty stricken. They are starving from persecution。
and social exile.。
In circumstances like that it's。
almost natural for hardship to bleed into character.。
It's almost expected. Under this sort of。
pressure the cracks, our cracks begin to show.。
They widen to reveal already present。
flaws in our character. And if we're being honest with ourselves。
we can all recognize some inadequacies。
in ourselves that are covered up and usually hidden behind our strengths.。
Like we see in verse 14.。
Let me go to verse 14 real quick.。
Verse 14.。
What threatens to drag us away can so often come from。
the desires within us that seek to produce sin and subsequently。
death. It says, "But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed。
by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin。
and sin when it has fully grown gives birth to death."。
Life is hard. Life is hard。
and it makes us hard. And yet, and yet we find。
that James heaps instruction upon instruction。
upon these Jewish Christians.。
He gives instructions that call for those of the。
dispersion to behave contrary to their circumstances.。
To go against the natural flow of action.。
Look at verse 2. What does it say?。
It says, "Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds.。
Consider it joy when you face trials." James makes。
this point. Let this be an occasion for joy.。
Joy.。
This is a strange and unexpected response to suffering.。
It almost feels inappropriate。
in some ways. But don't misunderstand.。
Don't look at this and think to yourself,。
I gotta pretend that things are okay.。
This is not a forced joy, but an eschatological。
joy. A joy that comes from looking beyond.。
And seeing something joyous. It's a response of joy.。
If you look at verse 2, James calls for his brothers and sisters。
to consider it joy when they face trials. And the reason。
the reason to consider such things joy, such hardships。
as joy is because the testing of their faith produces。
steadfastness. Note that this。
testing they speak of is not to determine。
whether or not there is faith in you. It's instead。
here to refine faith that is already present. And in this。
refining of faith, steadfastness is produced.。
You'll find that only through this refining。
process would this facet of steadfastness。
this endurance and perseverance exist within。
believers. But。
with all this talk about steadfastness。
you'll find that this is not the goal. Not just for the。
sake of being a steadfast person. Steadfastness itself。
is not the goal. Instead, if you look with me。
to verse 4, you'll see that the goal。
and desired outcome of suffering trial is something else.。
Right? And let steadfastness have its full。
effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking。
in nothing. The goal is not a specific virtue.。
It's not a particular fruit. The goal。
of steadfastness is your perfection.。
Your completeness. Perfection。
is central to James' writing. It's this picture of wholeness。
a finished and flawless。
work. We see this idea of perfection。
in verse 5 through the contrasting of two men.。
Let's take a look. The first person。
the first person spoken of by James embodies。
wholeness. They are lacking in nothing because they ask in。
faith and they receive wisdom from God. The first person is。
wise. But the second? The second person is。
like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed。
by the wind. They are double-minded。
and unstable, doubtful of the security of God's promises for them.。
And they're torn apart with inner conflict. They wander。
on and off every road they can see. In everything。
they do, they are fractured and inconsistent. They're not。
whole and they are not wise.。
In all of this is the implication that God desires。
for his followers to live true to their titles.。
Followers. What do followers do? They follow. God desires for。
his followers to follow him. And more than that, it's implied。
it's implied that God desires for those who follow him。
to be refined, to be perfected, and to be completed.。
To be wise and be affected by。
wisdom. Not in part, but in whole.。
For the collective voice of scripture calls for you to not just be。
followers, but imitators of Christ.。
That your whole being and every aspect。
of you would be refined and conformed into the likeness。
of the rock that is higher. And that from this。
completeness, your actions would be good and pleasing。
to God. See,。
this that we talk about, this being wise,。
being perfected, this result of suffering under trial.。
It is a continuing of the work of God. The call to count。
all joy in poverty and humiliation is a command that is。
founded on the finished work of Jesus. You,。
having been saved, you are called away from being fractured。
and inconsistent. You are called toward being whole。
with every aspect of your being.。
The reality we see in James is that。
faith has an effect on。
life. And that the culmination。
of Christian life is a whole。
and perfect conformity to the likeness of Christ.。
Why?。
Verse 9, "Why should the lowly brother boast。
as lowly? Because his position。
in Christ is not lowly, but exalted. He is not poor,。
but rich. Why then should the rich。
boast in his humiliation? Because his richness。
comes from his inheritance from heaven, not。
the collection of dust on this earth.。
Why should those undergoing trials and temptations。
consider it joy? Because in the。
trying of your faith, you and those around you become witnesses。
to the work of God that is being done in you.。
You see with your eyes that faith is present in you. And now。
you're given this opportunity to exercise the faith。
that is in you by placing weight on it, by trusting。
it. Do you see?。
Do you see here? The command here。
to count it pure joy is not another burden。
for you to carry on top of the pains of life.。
It's an instruction given to you so that you can live.。
Blessed is the man who remains。
steadfast under trial for he has, when he has withstood the test,。
he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those。
who love him.。
And so,。
looking at all this,。
do you want to be wise?。
Do you want your life to look like?。
My brothers and sisters, in。
sickness, loneliness, bereavement, and disappointment,。
don't keep your eyes fixed on the circumstances of life.。
Don't keep your eyes fixed on the desires。
of the flesh. Instead, look。
towards the object of your faith, the good and perfect gift。
of God to you, his son Jesus. And see。
that the promises of God are fulfilled to you in Jesus, in Christ.。
Know that the work of Jesus will not be undone, and that。
the Spirit is in this very moment making you more and more。
like Christ, and consider it all。
joy. The task laid before。
you is this. Joyfully lean into。
the work of God that is being done in you,。
and continue in that way.。
Become holy like Christ.。
That was a little short, but let me。
close us in a word of prayer. Would you bow your heads with me?。
Father, we give you thanks。
because you have been with。
us every single second of the day. There is not a moment。
that we are away from you or apart from you. You have。
seen us and known us, and before we were, you were.。
So, Lord, ask that you would continue to。
keep your hand on your people, on these brothers and sisters of mine,。
that you would reveal to them how deeply you love them,。
that they would start there, not looking at their own selves or the things。
around them, but God, let them look at you first and foremost.。
Would you make them rely on you, depend。
on you for everything in their life, that they might be a reflection of the way。
that you provide for them? Remove from them。
all these obstacles that hinder them, Lord, and keep。
them firmly in your hand. Give them a。
stronger spirit, a motivation to grow,。
and help them be good representatives of who you are.。
We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.。
Thank you very much.。
