Pastor Mark for our seminar today.。
- Welcome, morning.。
And we have some special guests here.。
Let me welcome them again.。
They were in the 10 o'clock Kennedy service.。
They are joining us in this worship service as well.。
And those are some of the special students。
from Moody Bible Institute.。
Let's welcome them, all right?。
Let's welcome them.。
(audience applauding)。
They're here for class assignments.。
They will ask some questions,。
so don't give them a hard time.。
Yeah, okay.。
Let's be friendly to them.。
Okay, they are Moody Bible Institute.。
Okay, they're from Moody, all right?。
Name we can trust.。
They're from Moody, all right?。
So let's see.。
We start a new sermon series on Good Friday and Easter.。
I think it's appropriate because as you can hear。
from the announcement, the Good Friday is approaching.。
And I think it's appropriate and it is the best time。
to reflect on the last week of Jesus,。
the last days of Jesus.。
So we turn to some of the episodes in the Gospels,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
and think about and reflect on what Jesus has done。
and what he's doing to our lives.。
So as we begin the service, as we begin the sermon,。
I would like to do some quiz, all right?。
So again, some pop quiz, all right?。
Since we have some Moody students here,。
all the church people, you are not going to Moody.。
This is the time to show them.。
We know the Bible without going to Moody, okay?。
All right?。
(congregation laughing)。
This is the time, okay?。
This is the time we're gonna show them.。
We don't have to go to, well,。
we don't have to go to Moody。
and we know well the Bible, all right?。
So, okay, all right.。
So let's do it, okay?。
Question one, which Gospel recorded the birth of Jesus。
like Christmas, which Gospels?。
A, Matthew and Mark, B, Luke and John,。
C, Matthew and Luke, D, the Gospel of Mark.。
Which one?。
Well, talk to your neighbors.。
C, who said that?。
Moody students?。
I want, yeah, yeah, I want a non-Moody student, okay?。
To answer this question.。
Just show them.。
You know, we know the answer.。
Yeah, Matthew and Luke.。
We know the Bible, all right?。
So it's getting tougher, okay?。
Quiz two, all right?。
Question two, which Gospel recorded childhood。
and years before Jesus' pulpit ministry?。
Matthew, Mark, Luke and John.。
Which one?。
Huh?。
Can I have the,。
can I have the non-Moody student answer this question?。
Come on.。
Come on, guys.。
Well, no, no, no, no, no.。
He went to Moody.。
He went to Moody.。
James is not qualified to answer the question.。
Okay, here we go.。
C, it's Luke.。
Yes, yes, give her a hand, give her a hand.。
(audience cheering)。
All right, all right.。
She answered all the questions.。
No way, no way, all right?。
So, question three, which Gospel recorded crucifixion,。
death, burial and resurrection of Jesus?。
Which Gospel?。
Matthew, Mark, Luke and John or all four Gospels?。
What's your answer?。
What's your answer?。
Huh?。
Are you sure?。
That's your final answer?。
All right.。
Yes, it's all four Gospels, okay?。
All four Gospels talk about the death。
and resurrection of Jesus Christ, okay?。
So pretty good, guys.。
Pretty good, all right?。
Pretty good, but you can still go to Moody.。
You get better.。
Now, think about it.。
There are some important days。
in the calendar of Christianity.。
The Christian calendar will mark some dates。
as more important than others.。
Either in practice or in theory,。
Christmas is one of them.。
So that's why most of the churches。
will celebrate Christmas in one way or the other.。
Good Friday, of course,。
Easter and some church traditions。
will celebrate, will emphasize Pentecost as well.。
So these important Christian calendar events。
remind us what Jesus has done, right?。
The life of Jesus, the birth and his life。
and his death and resurrection.。
And think about what modern people。
would like to hear about the story of Jesus.。
How many of you have watched "Chosen"?。
"Chosen."。
Yeah, pretty good, right?。
Pretty good interpretation or rendering。
of Jesus' life.。
And think about some other Jesus movies.。
We modern people, modern audience,。
are most interested in some of the stuff。
that is not recorded in the Bible.。
Like when Jesus went to kindergarten,。
did he study or he did miracle, right?。
And got all A's.。
How did he relate to like Joseph and Mary,。
you know, his early parents.。
Things like this really interests us.。
In fact, in the last two verses of the Gospel of John。
says this, listen,。
this disciple, which is the author of the Gospel of John,。
is the one who testifies to these events of Jesus,。
has recorded them here in the Gospel.。
And we know his account of these things。
is accurate, reliable.。
Jesus also did many other things, many other things.。
He said, "If they were all written down,。
"I suppose the whole world, the whole cosmos,。
"the whole universe, the vast universe,。
"could not contain the books written。
"about all the things about Jesus."。
He said that.。
John is one of the disciples.。
He probably heard of what Jesus did when he was young, right?。
What Jesus did before his public ministry, right?。
All the funny things that he did。
or he experienced and all that stuff.。
You know, rabbi and students,。
they live together 24/7.。
So there has to be a lot of different stories, you know,。
a lot of different things that can be said of Jesus.。
But, you know, it's very interesting.。
When we go to the Bible, the content,。
majority of them has to do with Good Friday,。
the death of Jesus and his resurrection.。
Nothing else.。
No more speculations.。
Only focus or emphasis is right on his death,。
his dying and resurrection.。
Now that sets apart Jesus from all other religious leaders,。
all other leaders in general.。
You know, all the leaders, human leaders,。
they came to live a life so that we can see as an example.。
We can follow their example.。
They're good examples.。
Think of the heroes of the country, of the nation,。
the founding fathers, right?。
The cultural heroes, all these great stories about,。
you know, human, you know, inspiring figures.。
They're all, you know, living the life。
so that we can follow as example.。
Only Jesus came to die so we can live.。
That sets apart Jesus from all the other people.。
That sets apart biblical faith, Christianity,。
from all other faiths.。
And let's take a look at today's passage.。
It's taken from the Gospel of John,。
and the story has to do with preparation。
for nothing but Jesus' death.。
Again, the focus is on the death of Jesus.。
Chapter 12.。
Six days before the Passover celebration began,。
Passover again is around the time Jesus was crucified.。
So it's one week before the Good Friday.。
Jesus arrived in Bethlehem.。
That is the home of Nazareth,。
the man he had raised from the dead.。
Remember John, in the previous chapter, chapter 11,。
talk about the last miracle of the Gospel of John。
is raising Nazareth from the dead.。
Verse two, a dinner was prepared in Jesus' honor,。
and Martha was there serving,。
and Nazareth was among those who ate with him.。
He was just raised from the dead,。
and Nazareth was one of them joining the dinner.。
Again, Martha, Mary, and Nazareth, they are siblings.。
All right, so they are very close to Jesus, this family.。
A big dinner is there,。
and then Mary took a 12-ounce jar of expensive perfume。
made from essence of nard.。
Where's the nard from?。
It's from India, okay?。
It's not curry.。
It's from India.。
All the way from India and transport all the way。
through commerce in the Middle East.。
It's a very rare product,。
very expensive product.。
And Mary annoyed Jesus' feet with it,。
wiping his feet with her hair,。
and the house was filled with the fragrance.。
"But Judah is a currier, the disciple,。
"who would soon betray," Jesus said.。
"That perfume was worth a year's wages.。
"It should have been sold,。
"and the money given to the poor."。
Not that Judah cared for the poor.。
He was a thief,。
and since he was in charge of the disciple's money,。
he often stole some for himself.。
Jesus replied, "Leave Mary alone.。
"She did this in preparation of my death, my burial,"。
and following resurrection.。
"For my burial, you will always have the poor among you,。
"but you will not always have me."。
When all the people heard Jesus' arrival,。
they flocked to see him and also to see Nazareth,。
the man Jesus had raised from the dead.。
Then the leading priest of Jerusalem。
decided to kill Nazareth as well,。
because many people had deserted,。
back then Judaism, deserted the synagogues,。
and they believed in Jesus.。
So there's a short story, 11 verses.。
It talks about the beginning of the final week of Jesus,。
and you can imagine, you know,。
Jesus was preaching the kingdom of God。
in the north of Israel, in Galilee,。
and slowly, step by step, he's moving away from Galilee,。
going down to Jerusalem in the south,。
and day after day, Jesus is talking to his disciples.。
What is his purpose of approaching Jerusalem?。
And now, Jesus finally, almost there,。
almost there, approaching Jerusalem,。
and he was in Bethany.。
And Bethany is a small village on the crest of Mount Olives,。
which is about maybe two miles away from Jerusalem.。
So it may take about, you know, 15 to 30 minutes。
to walk from Bethany to Jerusalem.。
And you can imagine the scene.。
Many people from the villages,。
they jam into the little house of Mary, Martha, and Nazareth,。
and they wanna see Jesus.。
Of course, they wanna see Nazareth as well,。
because they heard news of he's being raised from the dead.。
And by the way, you know,。
and here is a big dinner was prepared,。
and right in the middle of the dinner,。
right in the middle of this huge banquet,。
Mary, she takes the most expensive perfume,。
the most valuable thing in her house, probably,。
and she breaks it.。
And the perfume, the fragrance,。
permeates the entire house.。
You know, you can imagine, this is a beautiful picture.。
It's a beautiful scene.。
And in this short story,。
there are at least two main characters,。
Judas and Mary.。
Well, let's talk about Judas first.。
Verse four, what did he say?。
In this beautiful scene, he said,。
"That perfume worth a year's wages,。
"and it should be so,。
"and the money we gain can be offered to the poor."。
And there's a footnote there.。
He didn't really care about the poor.。
He was a thief, and he was in charge of the church money.。
He was in charge of the offering.。
You know, when Jesus go from village town into city,。
preaching the gospel, preaching the kingdom of God,。
many people supported Jesus, right, men and women,。
and they offered the resources, and sometimes food,。
sometimes money, to support the ministry。
of the disciples and Jesus.。
And Judas was, I think, the elected court team。
to take care of the finance, right?。
Maybe he was gifted, maybe he was an accountant.。
I don't know, yeah, maybe different reasons,。
he was in charge of the money of the disciples.。
And you can imagine, you know, with all the people there,。
this is something worth recording.。
The gospel of John recorded this conversation, this dialogue,。
and Judas said, you know, these things.。
Now, imagine with me a spectrum, a spectrum.。
All the way to our left is someone or some people。
who oppose or reject the gospel.。
And then slowly, you move to the right.。
There may be doubters, right?。
They question about the faith, and probably sincerely,。
they wanna find out what Jesus is all about.。
And then there are seekers, more serious about learning。
about the faith, and then finally,。
they became so-called believer.。
Now, this is a simplistic spectrum, right?。
I'm not saying there's a difference between believers。
and disciples or servant, right?。
They are all the same.。
In this scheme, however, you can imagine someone's moving。
from seeking the faith and then believing,。
and then being his disciples,。
and then being his followers, even serving, right?。
Now, in this scheme, where do you put Judas?。
Where do you put him?。
Where do you put him, the betrayer?。
Somewhere from the right all the way to the left, right?。
As time go by, he moves from the right。
all the way to the left.。
And very interesting, right?。
Very interesting.。
How does one, how does a person move。
from the right to the left, right?。
How does someone who has been a disciple for three years,。
he was personally called by Jesus himself, right?。
Judas was called to be one of the 12,。
personally called by Jesus when he began his ministry.。
And Judas, among the 12,。
he actually experienced the power of the kingdom, right?。
The relationship with Jesus firsthand.。
And he was initially trusted by the group。
to take care of the money.。
And then eventually, Judas moved slowly to become a doctor.。
And then finally, someone who rejects Jesus and betray him.。
What is going on?。
And I think the root of it may not be money.。
I think the root of it is self-interest, self-interest.。
Now, Judas may be called a tip of the iceberg。
in the Jewish population of the day.。
You know, the context of Jesus' story。
is Roman military occupation.。
The Jewish people were suffering。
and they were being oppressed by the Roman empire.。
So they were looking for some sort of Messiah.。
Now, everybody was looking for a Messiah,。
you know, in those days and in today, right?。
We are all looking for some sort of salvation.。
We are all looking for some solution。
to our supposed human problem.。
In those days, the Jews were looking for a political solution。
to kick out the Romans,。
people that they don't like, oppressing them.。
So this Messiah should come and to help us,。
you know, start a revolution or something。
and to do some change in our political situation。
so that we can have freedom, right?。
You know, most of the Jews would think。
that the immediate problem is the Roman empire.。
This is our problem and we want political change.。
Now, don't get me wrong, you know,。
there's so many social change,。
so many different political changes are good, all right?。
They bring about common good, you know, common grace.。
Don't get me wrong.。
I'm not saying, actually, you know, in recent history even,。
there were many social changes。
were initiated by Christian leaders, right?。
Like slavery.。
Now, some of the social changes are good,。
but they are not the ultimate good.。
They're not the ultimate good.。
And Jesus come along and say,。
"Yeah, you can change from one political power to another,。
"but you are simply changing the external, right?。
"The outside, the external configuration, right?。
"Because you topple one regime,。
"you replace it with another, right?。
"You take care of one system。
"and then you replace it with another system,。
"and then it will go corrupt."。
And we are in the same situation, right?。
And Jesus come along saying,。
"Yes, I'll do some changes.。
"I'll do some revolution,。
"but the revolution I'm bringing about。
"is not the external.。
"It's from the inside out.。
"The grace of God, the love of God, the kingdom of God."。
And this is what I'm coming to do.。
I am coming to atone your sin.。
This is the very root of a human problem,。
the heart of the problem, the heart of the issue.。
It's our heart, right?。
It's the human heart.。
We are corrupt and we are sinful,。
and we need God to redeem us.。
And that's why the cross is necessary.。
You know, I've searched in the church for some years.。
You probably experienced church for quite some time.。
And there are many different people that I encounter.。
They come to the church, they come to faith。
with different reasons.。
But my general conclusion is that most of the people,。
they don't ask enough questions.。
They don't struggle with the cross enough.。
They look at the church or look at Jesus from the outside.。
Oh, he's such a good moral teacher。
and such a good example we can follow.。
And I come to church, most of the people,。
with some other reasons than coming to faith.。
There are some benefits coming to church, right?。
Don't you think?。
Maybe I can get connected with someone。
and then I'll get a new job, right?。
I come to church with some benefit too, right?。
Recently I hurt my knee and there are two PTs here,。
physical therapists, and then I get the service for free.。
(audience laughing)。
Just a little bit, right?。
Not to take advantage.。
I mean, there has to be some benefit。
when we come to church or come to faith.。
However, Jesus is challenging us,。
or the gospel is challenging us,。
to look at the real emphasis,。
which is the necessity of the cross.。
Why is the cross necessary?。
Now we come to the second character, which is Mary.。
Now Mary is also a disciple.。
Jesus did something really extraordinary。
when he was preaching the kingdom of God.。
As a rabbi, he actually had female disciples, right?。
All the women following him and supporting his ministry,。
and Mary was one of them.。
So Mary, like Judas, she had witnessed the power of Jesus.。
Remember before chapter 12, it was chapter 11.。
That was the greatest miracle in the gospel of John.。
Jesus raised Nazareth from the dead,。
brought his brother back to life.。
So Mary has experienced God firsthand as well,。
experienced Jesus firsthand.。
So she knew Jesus had come into the world for some purpose.。
And that's why we have the story.。
She broke the jar of perfume to wipe those on Jesus' feet.。
To do what?。
Because she realizes Jesus comes to die, to die for us.。
That's the only way to bring us back to God.。
Jesus dies to save us.。
Look at verse three.。
It's a short verse,。
but it's like the camera zooming in。
to what Mary is doing to Jesus.。
She did not hold back anything.。
She gave the best gift, a costly gift, a perfume.。
In those days, it probably could be sold for 300 denarii.。
It's about 300 silver coins.。
No, it's 300 silver coins.。
It's equivalent to almost a year's salary,。
your whole year's salary.。
What is your whole year's salary?。
What is yours?。
Well, tax day is coming.。
So you should know, right?。
How much do you earn a year?。
A lot.。
Well, maybe for some people a little poor.。
A lot.。
So she broke it and offered it to Jesus.。
Now, in those days, when people had dinner,。
they did not sit up straight, right?。
They reclined on couches.。
That's why their feet are sticking out, right?。
So you can imagine this crowded house,。
a cozy dining table,。
and then Mary came and she annoyed Jesus,。
his feet with the perfume.。
And look at how the camera zoom in.。
He not only annoyed it with the perfume,。
she was wiping his feet with her hair.。
In those days, a lot different from today,。
women don't unbind their hair in public.。
It is a disgrace.。
It is humility, humiliation.。
So you see what Mary is doing is。
she is taking the lowest, lowest, lowest possible place,。
humble herself to love Jesus.。
You know, consider the entire story of the Gospel of John.。
Jesus begins ministry in chapter one, all the way.。
And there were seven miracles.。
There were different teachings of Jesus.。
And it goes on for some years, for almost three years.。
And Jesus moved from Galilee in the North。
to Jerusalem in the South.。
And he told his disciple many times。
that he came to die,。
to be betrayed,。
to be condemned,。
to be crucified.。
And he said also on the third day, he will rise again.。
Now, why do we need the cross?。
Why do we need the cross?。
The disciple didn't understand, right?。
They debate about it.。
In fact, before Jesus went to the cross,。
they were fighting among themselves, right?。
Who's gonna be the highest?。
Who's gonna be the king when the kingdom comes, right?。
They thought Jesus was the political Messiah。
to solve their own perceived problem,。
the political problem, not the heart problem.。
So the disciple didn't understand。
why the cross was necessary.。
So here it is.。
We need to think and struggle more about the cross.。
About the cross.。
Why is the cross necessary?。
For modern years, we as modern readers,。
sometimes we think of the cross like blood,。
very painful.。
It's not according to our taste, right?。
And we often think that if God is all loving,。
why can't he just forgive, right?。
Why can't he just forgive and forget, right?。
And then we move on, right?。
We often think that way.。
Just like your computer crashed, right?。
We format your drive, right?。
You buy a new computer and you start all over again.。
Why can't, what's up with God, right?。
Why can't he just forgive and forget, right?。
And we often think in this terms.。
Now I want you to struggle with me.。
Why the Bible says the cross is necessary.。
Jesus has to die, has to come to the cross.。
Imagine if someone really, really wrong you,。
if someone really, really wrong you,。
the perpetrator, the oppressor,。
the one who sinned against you,。
can he just come to you and say, "I'm sorry,。
can we start all over again?"。
Would you take that?。
I mean, someone really wrong you, okay?。
Someone really wrong you.。
It's not trivial stuff, right?。
For trivial stuff, we can just forget and go on, right?。
If someone really wrong you,。
you know, took away your, maybe your name, your future,。
your happiness or your reputation,。
something really wrong has done to you, you know?。
There has to be a cost.。
There has to be a debt, right?。
Either you pay for the cost,。
or the perpetrator pays for the cost,。
or you both share the cost, right?。
When my kids were younger,。
when they were, you know, they sit in the car。
and, you know, we driving,。
and I remember one day, they don't remember anymore,。
but they asked, you know, "What if we crash the car,。
right, damage the car,。
or somebody else damage our car, what will happen?"。
I said, you know, "The insurance will pay for it."。
And then, back then, they were so much younger,。
they didn't understand, they were so happy.。
"Oh, because somebody is paying for it,。
so that's cool, that's cool," right?。
What you don't understand is。
if there was some damage done to you,。
there has to be a debt that has to be paid for.。
Someone has to pay for it.。
Right?。
And again, if you think about most of the wrongs。
done to people, cannot be calculated in terms of dollars.。
No matter how much compensation is being fought for,。
it's just not eloquent, right?。
Someone may have hurt you,。
or robbed you of something that is important.。
You can't put a price tag on those things, right?。
Now, in this situation, imagine with me,。
you know, there are two options.。
The first option is retaliate, right?。
You do the same thing to the person。
who did the same thing to you, right?。
But is that a good option?。
Maybe not, right?。
Because it's a vicious cycle, right?。
Evil, and then evil, and then evil.。
Hurt people, hurt people, right?。
You heard about that?。
Hurt people, always hurt people.。
That's the first option.。
The second option, what may be called the redemptive option.。
The redemptive option is going after justice and forgiveness.。
Justice and forgiveness.。
And this option is redemptive, is sacrificial,。
because the price has to be paid, right?。
Think about in very simple human term, right?。
Someone has done something wrong to you,。
someone has to pay.。
Even you say, you know, I'm not gonna retaliate,。
I'm gonna forgive, you know, right away.。
I'm gonna forgive, but you know, think about it,。
dynamic is that you take the pain,。
someone take the cost, someone pay for the cost.。
That's why people said forgiveness is suffering.。
It is suffering, because we suffer and take the cost.。
You know, all of those redemptive elements。
in this kind of dynamics is sacrificial.。
And think further,。
all redemptive actions are sacrificial and life-changing.。
We parents, we know that, right?。
I don't know how many times I sacrificed。
in order to give life to somebody else, right?。
I reorder my life priority。
in order to give life to the other person.。
If I don't do that, their life will be in ruin, right?。
Parents do that, lovers do that, friends do that.。
Now imagine with me, you know,。
those things times a factor of infinity.。
That God himself, who is totally holy and pure,。
and we violate evil, we did evil.。
We sin.。
This is what amazing about the cross,。
that God himself chooses to love us.。
And that's why Jesus had to sacrifice himself。
to pay for the debt of sin.。
The debt of sin incurred by us。
sinning against the holy, eternal God.。
It's an eternal relationship being ruptured.。
Jesus has to come and pay for the debt on the cross.。
And when you truly believe that,。
when you really take this love into your heart,。
you should change from the inside out.。
You should gradually change your perspective on things,。
your relationship with God, your serving,。
all that you do and all that you make。
in terms of decisions.。
You will orient yourself toward the cross,。
you're toward the God who loves you.。
Mary does this.。
She realized the cross, the sacrificial death,。
the substitutionary atonement,。
someone paid for your debt.。
That's the only way we can come back to God.。
And this is her last chance to honor this death,。
to honor what Jesus has done for her.。
Anoint his body, his feet with perfume.。
Respond with love and sacrifice in a generous way.。
When you respond to God, the love of God,。
with the same love,。
your life will be changed inside out.。
We're gonna sing our last song, our response song.。
I'll invite the praise team to come back up here.。
I want you to, as we sing the song again,。
imagine what is going on in Bethany,。
what Mary did.。
And think with me, and struggle with me,。
why the cross is necessary.。
Why is it necessary for you?。
And you respond appropriately.。
To the cross.。
(gentle music)。
♪ I don't know how ♪。
♪ To say exactly how I feel ♪。
♪ And I can't begin ♪。
♪ To tell you what your love has meant ♪。
♪ I'm lost for words ♪。
♪ Is there a way ♪。
♪ To show the passion in my heart ♪。
♪ Can I express ♪。
♪ How truly great I think you are ♪。
♪ My dearest friend ♪。
♪ Lord, this is my desire ♪。
♪ To pour my love on you ♪。
♪ Like oil upon your feet ♪。
♪ Like wine for you to drink ♪。
♪ Like water from my heart ♪。
♪ I pour my love on you ♪。
♪ If praise is like perfume ♪。
♪ Then I'll lavish mine on you ♪。
♪ 'Til every drop is gone ♪。
♪ I'll pour my love on you ♪。
Would you please rise?。
(gentle music)。
♪ I don't know how ♪。
♪ To say exactly how I feel ♪。
♪ And I can't begin ♪。
♪ To tell you what your love has meant ♪。
♪ I'm lost for words ♪。
♪ Is there a way ♪。
♪ Is there a way ♪。
♪ To show the passion in my heart ♪。
♪ Can I express ♪。
♪ How truly great I think you are ♪。
♪ My dearest friend ♪。
Let's sing this.。
♪ Lord, this is my desire ♪。
♪ To pour my love on you ♪。
♪ Like oil upon your feet ♪。
♪ Like wine for you to drink ♪。
♪ Like water from my heart ♪。
♪ I pour my love on you ♪。
♪ If praise is like perfume ♪。
♪ Then I'll lavish mine on you ♪。
♪ 'Til every drop is gone ♪。
♪ I'll pour my love ♪。
♪ Like oil upon your feet ♪。
♪ Like wine for you to drink ♪。
♪ Like water from my heart ♪。
♪ I pour my love on you ♪。
♪ If praise is like perfume ♪。
♪ Then I'll lavish mine on you ♪。
♪ 'Til every drop is gone ♪。
♪ I'll pour my love ♪。
♪ On you ♪。
Let's go to prayer.。
Father, thank you for your love, your great love.。
Beyond all the words that we can explain and describe,。
it's incomprehensible.。
Your grace abounds in our lives.。
So we come before you, we want to respond.。
Respond with love.。
Responds with our open heart.。
So let your grace and your love, the love of the cross,。
to fill us up to change and transform our lives.。
Change our orientation, change our perspectives,。
change our direction.。
How we make decisions, how we live our lives,。
is to respond to you as a sacrifice.。
Thank you for the fact that your love never change.。
And I pray that your spirit will move us in such a way。
that we'll love you back.。
Thank you.。
Thank you for being our loving God.。
In Christ, we pray.。
Will you dismiss, and I want to see you next week,。
and let's worship God together.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
(upbeat music)。
