Here we go. Let me turn this on.。
We'll have a point with that one, Mark. I will promise I am not making a mess today, Mark.。
Good morning. Today we finish up our series on Elijah.。
And so we've been looking at chapters 17, 18, and 19.。
They span about three years of Elijah.。
And it is interesting how, for some odd reason, God works in mysterious ways.。
I think all of us who are sitting here and when I travel and talk with different leaders around the world,。
they all want to know what God is calling them to do.。
But you look at the life of Elijah, and it was in that three-year period that he says,。
"Okay, Elijah, this is what I want you to do. That's my calling."。
Whatever he did had such a ripple effect that we're still reading about him today.。
We're still studying what he did in that three-year period.。
Very similar to Jesus, very similar to Joseph or Moses, a certain period in time.。
And after that, Elijah is whisked away, and we don't see Elijah until the Transfiguration,。
when he's there with Jesus and Moses.。
And so, but at the same time, he calls Elijah to be faithful and continue to call us to continue to live your life,。
to be faithful each and every single day.。
And for all of us, if there is anything we remember about Elijah, is that there are defining moments in your life.。
You don't know when those defining moments are coming.。
You don't know when God calls you to do something.。
And when he does call us, it'll come out of nowhere, but we have to be faithful during that whole period of time。
in terms of waiting and anticipating for what God calls us to do.。
But for all of us, he continues to call us each and every single day to live as Christ would be,。
to be faithful in how you act, how you think, how you treat other people,。
because the gospel motivates all of us to do that.。
You look at Elijah, we first start in chapter 17, right?。
And he just comes out of nowhere. There's nothing about Elijah beforehand.。
And you guys have heard me summarize this over and over again.。
This guy is the Tishbit of Tishbe in Gilead.。
That is the first description of Elijah.。
He comes out of nowhere. He comes out of this rural area.。
He's a Tishbe, and the author doesn't really know where he's at, but he says it's somewhere in Gilead.。
And this guy, this rural guy, who's not very presentable, rough around the edges.。
He's not tall and strong like Saul. Somehow he gets a meeting with King Ahab of the Northern Kingdom.。
There's a Northern Kingdom. There's a Southern Kingdom.。
And Ahab is the king of the Northern Kingdom. He gets a meeting with the king.。
And he tells the king that there will be neither dew nor rain until my word.。
And we will see that there is a huge drought that takes place for the next three years.。
And he reminds him, "Why am I doing this? I represent the God before whom I stand."。
That's it. That's my motivation. That becomes a theme of Elijah's life.。
The God before whom I stand.。
And after that, he's whisked away to Shareth.。
And there he lives in solitude. He's fed by the ravens.。
He's fed drinks from the brook until it dries up.。
And he stays there. And after that, God says, "You know where I need you to go?。
I need you to go a hundred miles. I need you to walk a hundred miles to Zarephath.。
I see where you are. I know where you are. I see you.。
I know where you're going. You want me to walk a hundred miles to Zarephath,。
the hometown of Queen Jezebel, the wife of King Ahab, who is the worst of all the kings? Yes.。
And there you're going to encounter a widow. And that widow will provide you for all your needs."。
So he shows up, and this widow is sitting there. She's not of the faith and says to him,。
"Hey, I'm not sure if you are here because you need food. I have no food.。
I have a little flour. I have a little oil. I'm collecting sticks so I can make a fire.。
I'm going to make a little bread so my son can eat it and die."。
"Really, Lord? You sent me this?" "Yes. I know where you're going.。
I know what you need. But you're going to have to overcome first impressions.。
You're going to have to overcome physical impossibilities."。
Later on, as the story goes, the widow's son dies, and she blames him.。
And she says, "Your God did this to us. He is punishing me for one of my sins."。
And he lives with that fear. Elijah takes the boy up, brings him to his room.。
And you know what? He doesn't know the answer.。
He comes and lays the boy before the Lord and says, "Lord, whatever, can you please heal him?。
Because I don't know what's going on. I don't know what you're doing."。
There's a genuine relationship that Elijah has with the Lord.。
And somehow the Lord heals the boy. And the widow says,。
"If you guys look at the end of chapter 17, this woman who didn't know who the Lord was,。
was not part of the religion, says to him, 'Clearly you are a man of the Lord.。
Clearly the Lord is present in your life.'"。
She doesn't say, "Look at you. You're such a powerful man. You're such a strong man."。
No, no. "Clearly, clearly the Lord is present. You are a man of the Lord."。
18 comes in. It's the last time I saw you guys, Mount Carmel.。
There, a lot of times after three years, God says, "Go confront Ahab."。
Yes. Time, drought is over. And then they meet and Elijah says to him, "Let's have a showdown.。
You bring all your prophets to Baal. Bring all your prophets to the Asherah.。
And I will bring my God. And we're going to ask those gods to come and bring fire.。
And whoever calls on the Lord and they bring fire, that is the true God.。
Yes, let's do it." And everyone comes. And all the Israelites of that land comes.。
And if you remember, Elijah looks upon the Israelites.。
And he says to them, "Are you limping between two different opinions?"。
And they said nothing.。
And it's an illustration for us, is for all of us, are we limping between two different opinions?。
And also, do you even care to do something about it?。
Story goes, the prophets of Baal call upon their God. Nothing happens.。
And they keep calling and calling and calling. Nothing happens.。
Now it's Elijah's turn. And the word over in 1st Kings tells us he repaired and rebuilt the altar.。
Are you limping between two different opinions?。
Do you care to do anything about it? And so how do you repair and rebuild your altar?。
And also, are you asking God to show up?。
And boy, does God show up.。
And the fire comes down from heaven, and it consumes all of the burnt offering.。
It doesn't bring judgment on the people for their disobedience.。
It consumes the burnt offering.。
And this is where we are in chapter 19, as we wrap up our series of Elijah.。
And so the story goes, "And in a little while, the heavens grew black with clouds, and wind, and there was a great rain.。
The drought is over. After three years, the rain is finally there.。
And Ahab rode and went to Jezreel.。
And the hand of the Lord was on Elijah, and he gathered up the garment and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel."。
Why does Elijah show up to Jezreel?。
Now, the capital city is in Samaria. We talked about that, right?。
Capital city is in Jezreel. But there are little remnants of a small little palace in Jezreel.。
People believe that Ahab and Jezebel probably had a summer home, a small little home over Jezreel.。
And it's about 20 miles away from Mount Carmel.。
And so a lot of times Elijah goes there. Why?。
Look at how the Lord works. He brought fire to Mount Carmel.。
He destroyed all the prophets of Baal.。
The people of Israel are going to turn back to God.。
Ahab, Jezebel, they're all going to turn back to God.。
And I'm going to be there to see it. This is the triumphant return of our Lord after this three-year drought。
because of everything that happened at Mount Carmel.。
And so he gathers up his garment, and he gets to the entrance of Jezreel.。
But that's not what happens.。
The people of Israel doesn't come back.。
Ahab and Jezebel don't turn their lives back to God.。
But rather Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.。
It's funny. We talked about how all the 19 kings, Ahab was the worst.。
But we truly see who the true villain of the story was.。
Jezebel had all the power, and Ahab goes crying to her.。
Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying,。
"So may the God do to me more and more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by this day tomorrow."。
Then he was afraid, and he arose and ran for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah,。
and left his servant there.。
Point number one, there are times when things do not go according to plan.。
There are times when things don't go according to plan.。
Elijah had it mapped out perfectly.。
Elijah thought, "After three years, I make my triumphant return.。
Lord, I've obeyed you. You've followed me. I mean, you've listened to me.。
We've done all these things.。
I've gone to Jareth. I've gone to Zarephath. I've come back.。
Mount Carmel, I've called upon the name.。
Clearly, this is the time. Clearly, this is what you're going to do."。
And he goes over to Jezreel, and he is expecting everyone to turn to the Lord.。
But that's not what happened.。
Things don't go according to the plan that we want at times.。
And when that happens, are you okay with that?。
When we expect God to work in a certain way,。
when we expect God to do what we want him to do,。
and it doesn't go according to plan, are you going to be okay with it?。
How are you going to react to it?。
It's like the story of Dave and Goliath, isn't it?。
We've talked about this before.。
The story of Dave and Goliath, because here's this young shepherd boy。
who is the one person that no one ever expected would battle Goliath.。
He's the underdog in the story, and he kills Goliath.。
And suddenly, we think he is going to be--。
songs are sang about him, stories are written about him,。
and this is his time to shine.。
He's going to be the best warrior.。
Saul is going to cede him the kingdom.。
Saul is going to retire, and David now truly becomes king.。
That's not what the story happens.。
Saul becomes jealous of him, and eventually Saul takes away his job,。
and Saul goes after him, wanting to kill him.。
David runs to his wife. Saul goes after him.。
David then runs to his mentor Samuel. Saul's after him.。
He runs to his son Jonathan, who runs to his best friend Jonathan,。
who is the son of Saul. Saul finds him there.。
He goes to the city of Gath, where Goliath is--that's his birthplace, his hometown.。
He stays there for a period of time, pretending to be a crazy man,。
and he ends up in the cave of Adullam by himself,。
where he writes Psalm 57 and Psalm 132.。
Things don't go according to plan.。
And when things don't go according to plan, how are you going to react to it?。
I remember in my own life as well, too, when I first started Resource Global.。
This was about 10 years ago.。
The premise of Resource Global was that young Christian marketplace leaders,。
young Christian business leaders--not pastors, not seminary students,。
not ministry leaders--young Christian marketplace leaders。
would be the catalyst for gospel growth all around the world.。
That was the catalyst. That was my thought.。
And the Foundation says, "Tommy, I love this idea.。
Here's some funding." And we started in Jakarta, Indonesia.。
And the plan is once we start with the Chinese Indonesians in Jakarta, Indonesia,。
and then we started one in Chicago, and then we're going to do something in Malaysia.。
We're going to do something in Hong Kong. We're going to do something in Nairobi.。
We're going to do something in LA. That was the plan.。
And I had it all laid out.。
And I remember I brought in my first team of people.。
I hired a director of communications. I hired a program manager.。
That was the plan. That's what I believed that God was calling me to do.。
But that plan didn't work out.。
I didn't really get along with those individuals.。
We were on the same page. We were constantly disagreeing.。
And I thought, "Lord, you told me to do this. I really believe you told me to do this."。
I hired a team. Why isn't this happening?。
So we got rid of the team. And I said, "Okay, okay.。
I probably misinterpreted you, right? I'm going to bring in a second team.。
And I'm going to bring in a team who's completely different to me in terms of personality.。
That will work." It didn't work. It didn't work.。
"Lord, I'm so sure that you called me to do this."。
Next thing you know, as the story goes, that was about five, six years ago,。
I was diagnosed with cancer, and then I had to leave for eight months.。
And I thought we were going to shut it down.。
But that's when the ministry started growing.。
Jakarta started growing when I wasn't around.。
Then from that point on, Malaysia started. Singapore, when I was just starting.。
Nairobi started when I wasn't around.。
Our young leaders in Jakarta became the leaders in their city.。
They became the mentor. They became the donors.。
They became the board members.。
All because they started rising up to the challenge.。
Now here we are, 13 cities later.。
We just started Cluj. We're working on Tokyo at this point right now.。
I'm off to Cluj in a couple weeks.。
And I look back and I said, "I would have never scripted this."。
It doesn't go according to plan.。
That doesn't work in the way that you think it'll work.。
Elijah had to understand this.。
Elijah gets up there and he thinks that Mount Carmel, everyone's going to go according to plan.。
You're going to respond. Everyone's going to turn back to the Lord.。
It didn't happen that way.。
And when it doesn't go according to plan, are you okay with it?。
Another thing also as well too is, and so Elijah then in verse 4,。
"But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness.。
And he came and sat down under a broom tree.。
And Elijah asked that he might die, saying, 'It is enough now, O Lord.。
Take away my life, for I am no better than my father's.'"。
Here's something, a side note as well too.。
Different people respond in different ways, right?。
Different people respond in different ways.。
And that's something we have to honor and respect.。
Sometimes with different people, when we come across a situation,。
we just always have to understand that people respond in different ways.。
One of the things that we have seen, and I think a lot of times you're going to see as we map out the story,。
Elijah gets discouraged easily.。
And that's okay. It's understanding that personality.。
But here's another personality I want to show you.。
Isaiah chapter 6. You don't need to turn into it.。
Isaiah chapter 6 talks about this story.。
And here's where it begins with. Isaiah 6, and right in verse 10.。
"And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, 'Whom shall I send, and who will go forth for us?'"。
That's what the voice of the Lord says.。
Isaiah says, "Here am I. Send me."。
And here's what the Lord says to him. Isaiah 6, verse 10.。
"Keep on hearing, but do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive.。
Make the hearts of the people dull, and their hearts heavy.。
And blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears,。
and understand with their hearts, and turn, and be healed."。
Then Isaiah says, "How long, O Lord?"。
And he says, "Until cities lie waste without inhabitants, and houses without people,。
and the land is a desolate waste, and the Lord removes people far away,。
and the Israelite places are many in the midst of the land.。
And though a tent remain in it, it will be burned again."。
Do you understand what Isaiah is saying as well too?。
Here, Elijah gets mad because he sees everything that's happening.。
He's all discouraged, right?。
Isaiah is literally being told in Isaiah 6, "I'm sending you,。
and when you preach, you will see no results.。
You will keep putting all this effort, and you will keep preaching the Word of God,。
and you'll keep serving, and serving, and serving,。
and you will never see a lack of results."。
And Isaiah is saying, "So how long am I doing this?"。
"Until nothing remains.。
That's when you'll be done."。
But Isaiah is strong.。
Different people respond in different ways.。
And we see here with Elijah, a lot of times, it's nothing wrong,。
but he just needs a little encouragement along the way,。
which leads us to the next point.。
Because when things--when we get discouraged--。
I love what Tim Keller says on this one.。
He says, "If you look at this passage in Isaiah--in Elijah in 1 Kings 19,。
God uses the story in Elijah where he encounters both the angel--。
an angel--and the Lord.。
Both of those guys are showing up in this particular situation,。
and we see God ministering to Elijah in three ways.。
He ministers to him physically.。
He ministers to him mentally.。
And he ministers to him spiritually--。
physically, mentally, and spiritually.。
Let's go through that and see what this means.。
Verse 5, "And Elijah lay down, and he slept under a broom tree.。
And behold, an angel touched him.。
And he said to him, 'Arise and eat.'。
And he looked, and behold, there was at his head a cake。
baked on hot stones in a jar of water.。
And Elijah ate and drank and lay down again.。
And the angel of the Lord came again a second time。
and touched him and says, 'Arise and eat,。
for the journey is too great for you.'。
And he arose and ate and drank。
and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights。
to Horeb, the Mount of God."。
So I know Horeb is a very special place.。
It is the place where Moses received the Ten Commandments.。
That's where Elijah goes.。
So how does God minister in the midst when we get discouraged,。
when we get frustrated for some reason or another?。
And here in this situation, there are unmet expectations。
that Elijah is dealing with.。
And after all the things that's happening, he is frustrated.。
But God, in the midst of our frustration,。
ministers to us in three different ways--。
physically, mentally, and spiritually.。
For the physical part, he comes to Elijah,。
and he allows him to sleep.。
That's number one.。
He allows him to sleep.。
Sometimes we just need to--。
when we're in the midst of situations, when we are discouraged,。
we just need to walk away for a little bit.。
We have to do something different.。
We have to regroup ourselves.。
He allows him to sleep.。
He also feeds him, not once but twice,。
"Arise, get up, and eat."。
That cake sustains him for forty days。
while he travels to Mount Horeb.。
And then from that point on, he touches him.。
I love what one author says to him,。
is that we are physical beings。
who live in the physical world.。
The things of words of affirmation,。
touch, all of those things,。
mean something to us because we are physical beings。
in the physical world.。
When I worked at Moody Bible Institute,。
I remember I got a report about the number of books。
that Moody-- in terms of their revenue sales, right?。
And so did you know under Moody Publishers,。
there is one book that makes up 90% of their revenue。
every single year?。
If you guys could guess, that book is。
The Five Love Language by Gary Chapman.。
After all these decades,。
The Five Love Language of Gary Chapman,。
which is, I think, in its eighth revision,。
in eighth edition or something like that,。
makes up 90% of the revenue.。
And that man is about 80 years old,。
and he is still out there,。
and that message never gets old.。
Why? Because we all want to know how we're wired.。
We all want to know how to love.。
We all want to know how to show love and to receive love。
because we are physical beings in a physical world.。
God ministers to us physically.。
Secondly, another thing is,。
he ministers to us mentally, emotionally.。
What does he say to us?。
And a lot of times this goes back to Elijah.。
Remember, he gets discouraged easily.。
He says, "Arise and eat," in verse 7.。
For what?。
The journey is too great for you.。
The journey is too great for you.。
For some of us who are parents,。
for some of us who are counselors,。
for some of us who are teachers,。
for some of us who are leaders,。
have to manage staff,。
you'll understand what I'm trying to say.。
We manage people differently.。
Different people are managed differently。
according to their persona, personality, all of that.。
A good parent, a good leader, a good counselor, a good boss,。
understands how each person reacts to different situations.。
You'll understand.。
What do I mean by that?。
There are some people,。
I have my two daughters here with me this morning,。
and so there are some people where you just have to encourage them.。
They just need a lot of encouragement, right?。
There are some people we manage,。
there are some people, some of our kids,。
or there are some people that we work with, youth and all that stuff,。
where you have to be very direct with them.。
You've got to be very hard on them,。
and a lot of times what helps them。
is when you're sitting there and telling them the truth.。
Some people, they just need a lot of encouragement,。
but there are some people who you've managed,。
you kind of let them fail.。
You don't say anything to them,。
because you know the best way for them to learn。
is when they fail and they're able to work through their situation.。
They know what to do,。
but they just need you to support them.。
Each person is managed differently.。
The angel, the Lord, God knows us so uniquely sometimes,。
where not only does he heal us and minister to us physically,。
we see here a concrete example。
where he ministers to us mentally and emotionally.。
He knows how Elijah is wired.。
He needs encouragement.。
Elijah doesn't need someone to tell him。
and lecture him of what he needs to do.。
What he does need someone is to tell him, reaffirm him,。
I know the journey is too great for you.。
Rest, rest, because the journey is too great for you.。
Exit angel, get to Mount Horeb.。
He comes before her in the cave, and now the Lord comes to him.。
And the Lord says to him in verse 9,。
"What are you doing here, Elijah?"。
It's very similar to Genesis chapter 3,。
where God says to Adam and Eve, "Where are you?"。
Did God not know where Adam and Eve was?。
Did God not know what Elijah's doing?。
No, no, no, no.。
He's asking questions, which forces Elijah to reflect.。
All of you who have counseled people。
and come alongside people, you realize。
the worst thing when someone is dealing with a problem,。
they are not expecting you to sit down。
and tell them all your answers.。
When my wife sits there and tells me about her day。
and tells me a problem with her kids in her first grade class,。
she is not expecting me to solve her problem.。
She is expecting me to listen.。
And sometimes in the midst of doing that,。
you ask clarifying questions to lead them to the point.。
And sometimes the best counselors are the ones。
who allow people to talk 80% of the time,。
and now you're talking 20% of the time.。
You're asking them, you're leading on a journey.。
That's what's happening here.。
"What are you doing here, Elijah?"。
It forces him to think.。
It forces him to reflect.。
It forces him to come upon his own conclusion.。
God ministers to us physically.。
He ministers to us emotionally.。
And he ministers to us spiritually.。
Here the story comes, and one of the best parts。
of Scripture that I love.。
If you have never, ever read this part of Scripture,。
it is a story that I love where God shows up.。
Verse 11, God says to him, "Go out and stand on the mount。
before the Lord."。
"And before and behold, the Lord passed by."。
He is now Elijah's Mount Horeb.。
That is the place where Moses got the Ten Commandments.。
"And a great and strong wind tore the mountains。
and broke the mountain in pieces,。
the rocks before the Lord.。
But the Lord was not in the wind.。
And after the wind, an earthquake.。
But the Lord was not in the earthquake.。
And after the earthquake, fire.。
But the Lord was not in the fire.。
And after the fire, the sound of a low whisper.。
And when Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his cloak。
and went out and stood at the entrance of the cave.。
And behold, there came a voice to him that says,。
"What are you doing here, Elijah?"。
God ministers to us spiritually.。
He reminds Elijah, and he reminds us,。
"You expect that I'm going to come in power.。
You perceive power in the form of a wind,。
an earthquake, and fire.。
That's not how I'm going to show up.。
You expect me to come in the form of judgment.。
That's not how I'm going to show up.。
You got to hear my voice."。
And that voice is surrounded by grace.。
And that voice is soft.。
And that voice comforts.。
And through that voice, you experience my presence.。
It's sort of like the gospel, isn't it?。
In Matthew chapter 11, when Jesus comes and starts ministering,。
John the Baptist, if you guys remember the story of John the Baptist,。
what was he saying to the Israelites?。
"Behold, someone greater than me is coming.。
The ax is at the root of the tree.。
Repent, repent, repent.。
The ax is at the root of the tree."。
John gets imprisoned.。
In verse 11, he hears about all the things that Jesus is doing.。
He sends his disciples over to Jesus.。
And he relays a message, and they say, "John wants us to ask you,。
are you the one who is to come,。
or should we expect someone else?"。
Because Jesus' message was about healing and grace and forgiveness.。
John was expecting someone who was going to be sitting there with fire and brimstone。
and was going to preach judgment.。
And that's why he was telling everyone to repent.。
But Jesus, you're coming to heal your--。
wait, are you the one who's supposed to come,。
or should I be expecting someone else?。
Elijah, when I come in the form of you think I'm going to be in the wind,。
you think I'm going to be in the earthquake,。
you think I'm going to be in the fire,。
these are all forms of judgment.。
You've got to hear my voice,。
and that voice is surrounded by grace.。
And as we end here, he wraps up,。
and he tells them, "Here's what I need you to do,。
because I have a plan.。
Not only am I going to minister to you,。
but here's our plan.。
After all, in verse 15, "And the Lord said to him,。
'Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus,。
and when you arrive you shall anoint Hazel to be king over Syria,。
Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint to be king over--。
Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint to be king over Israel,。
and Elisha the son of Shabbat of Ebo-Meholah。
you shall anoint to be prophet in your place.。
And the one who escapes from the sword of Hazel shall Jehu put to death,。
and the one who escapes from the sword of Jehu shall put Elisha put to death.。
Yet I will leave 7,000 in Israel,。
all the knees that have not bowed to bow,。
and every mouth that has not kissed them.。
Elijah, you think I had no plan?。
You think you are the only one left?。
I have 7,000 people waiting for me to be used to them,。
and I have a plan to put all these kings in place,。
and I've also found your replacement in Israel too,。
so you're out of a job.。
That's my plan.。
You think you're the only one left.。
You think after Mount Carmel all of these things were going to happen.。
That's not what's going to happen.。
Because things don't go as we expect it to be.。
We think that we could put God in a box,。
and all these things that will happen will go according to plan,。
but it doesn't happen the way we expect it to go.。
That's the stories of Elijah's life, isn't it?。
That's the way--it's interesting.。
Three years of this man, right, comes out of nowhere.。
He kind of shows up, and he goes from place to place to place,。
all of these places, and at the end of the day,。
God ultimately has a plan.。
He knows what's going to happen.。
Don't put God in a box.。
Sometimes your plan of what you expect God to do,。
it may not go according to plan.。
And when that happens, are you okay with it?。
That's the story of Elijah,。
the Tishbit of Tishbe in Gilead,。
who comes out of nowhere,。
who we didn't expect him to do anything,。
shows us what it means to follow the Lord,。
to be obedient to the Lord.。
In summary, you're wondering,。
"What in the world is he doing with this,。
and why is he putting water in this?"。
That when we look at Elijah, we look at who he is,。
don't put a person in a box.。
Just because he's some real guy who comes out of nowhere,。
and he's kind of not fancy, and kind of rough around the edges,。
God could use that person.。
Don't put a person in a box.。
Sometimes when we do things, and we see God work,。
or we try to perform God, we sit there and do all these things,。
and we come before the Lord expecting certain things to be done,。
but things may not go according to plan.。
And that's okay, because sometimes,。
no matter how much water we put in,。
it may not even work.。
God works in mysterious ways.。
Oops, we're going to have to work on the illustration.。
That's the story of Elijah.。
That's the story of what God calls us to do.。
The tishbit of tishbi in Gilead.。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you for this time.。
Thank you for the story of Elijah.。
Thank you for what you taught us.。
Thank you for how you ministered to us.。
Thank you for the example that you gave,。
and how you showed how one person worked,。
and for you truly followed after you.。
May our theme of constantly, no matter what,。
even when we don't understand,。
allow us to seek after you.。
In Christ we pray, amen.。
