Just a word of reminder, I'm looking forward to next week,。
Dr. Ko-Hee Sun will be with us,。
and maybe a few more people will join us as well.。
So please come here early, all right, early,。
which is 11, and we're gonna share a portion。
of the whatever you call it, roasted pig, right?。
It's gonna be great, yeah, it's gonna be great.。
I talked to the cafe team,。
and we originally planned to have a birthday cake。
so we can cut it together,。
but Ada, one of the heads of the cafe team,。
called me and said, "Oh, I compared the prices,。
"and roasted pig is actually the same price as the cake,。
"right, so why don't we just go for roasted pig?"。
And okay, I said, "Yeah, why not?"。
Since it will be more delicious, I guess, right?。
So I come here at 11, so we're gonna join together。
in the cafe and have a good meal together, all right?。
So today, we are going to have a short message。
on the importance of this week, which is the holy week.。
Today is the Palm Sunday,。
that's why we have a brother getting baptized today,。
and seriously, you need to read his testimony.。
He came from China, from a pagan worshiping background,。
and he was led into a government church,。
and he found it uncomfortable,。
and eventually, he went to a family church, or house church,。
and he was introduced to Jesus,。
and then he came over to the United States not too long ago,。
started to come to our church actually months ago,。
and then I was talking to him。
about his decision to get baptized,。
and I actually asked him if he minds to wait a little bit,。
you know, wait till Christmas,。
we may have a few more people getting baptized, right?。
Because we're going to prepare one water tank anyway,。
whether you have 10 people getting baptized。
or one person getting baptized,。
it's gonna be one big water tank, right?。
So I asked him whether he's okay to wait until Christmas,。
we're gonna have baptism in Christmas,。
and he said, "No, I wanna get baptized."。
I said, "Whoa, okay, all right, then how will you answer?。
"How will you answer such a desire。
"to get baptized just himself, right?"。
So I talked to him, "You'll be just you,"。
and I didn't tell him, I said,。
"In my mind," I said,。
"We're gonna prepare one water tank anyway,。
"so may as well wait for other people to get baptized."。
And he said, "No, I wanna get baptized。
"because God has washed away my sin,。
"and I wanna tell the world that Jesus is my Lord,。
"and dude, amen to that, right?"。
So I had no answer, I said, "Yeah, let's do it, let's do it."。
So our team prepared the water tank for just one person,。
you know, one person getting baptized,。
and that is the most meaningful thing, right?。
We believe in Jesus Christ, we are in the name of Christ,。
and we receive the name of Triune God,。
Father and Son of the Holy Spirit,。
and the name being upon the person,。
and what a celebration, right?。
So read his testimony, it's very, very interesting.。
So this week is all about this,。
it's all about the salvation Jesus has done。
for all of us on the cross,。
and that is the last week, the final week of Jesus.。
Just very, very quickly, I wanna give you some survey.。
How important this week is,。
the last seven days of Jesus Christ。
on his earthly ministry, his earthly life.。
The last seven days is the most important thing。
recorded in the Bible.。
All four gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
spend over a quarter of its content,。
its pages, to record and to tell us the story,。
the crucified Messiah, Jesus Christ.。
If you turn to the fourth gospel, the gospel of John,。
actually half of the book is about Jesus Christ。
on the cross.。
He prepared himself to be nailed on the cross,。
and that is how important it is.。
If you add those up, if you add those up,。
if you're good at math, you add those up,。
you've got 30-some chapters。
talking about just this final week of Jesus,。
almost one-third to one-half of the four gospels combined.。
So this is the very, very important week。
that changed the world,。
changed the lives of the people who believe,。
all of us, each and every one of us.。
So it's a good thing to remind us。
to reveal what is going on in this final week.。
So we backtrack two days on Friday。
before the Palm Sunday,。
Jesus was annoyed by Mary at Bethany,。
and then it was Shabbat, resting day,。
and then Sunday is the Palm Sunday, which is today,。
and Jesus riding on a donkey,。
he enters Jerusalem as the king,。
and then he weeps for the city。
because the city of Jerusalem does not repent.。
And in one generation in AD 70,。
in that year, the Romans would come。
and destroy the entire city and the temple.。
And he weeps about the end, the judgment on the city,。
and then he returns to Bethany.。
And then on Monday and Tuesday,。
he returns to Jerusalem and have debates。
with all these religious leaders who would not repent,。
who would not recognize him as a Messiah.。
He also cursed a fig tree,。
which is a symbol of the Israel, the nation Israel,。
not willing to repent and bear fruit,。
which symbolizes the temple and the city of Jerusalem.。
And the Jewish leaders plot to kill him.。
So we come to Thursday and Friday,。
Jesus and his disciples share the last Passover meal,。
what we call the chameleon in later generations.。
And he talks so much about things for the disciples,。
which we call farewell discourse.。
So he's gonna say goodbye,。
but he's gonna have tons of things。
reminding the disciples, right?。
He's giving them the Holy Spirit to be with them,。
to walk with them so that they can grow in discipleship.。
And finally, he prays at Gethsemane,。
which is a garden at the foothill of Mount Olive.。
And he there was betrayed and arrested.。
And it was in the middle of the night,。
he was on trial and condemned by the Jewish court,。
by the Jewish leaders.。
And then Peter, as you remember, denies Jesus three times.。
And then it was sunrise.。
And Jesus was tried by the Roman governor Pilate,。
and was mocked by King Herod.。
And then he eventually was crucified on God Gotham.。
And at the time of his death,。
the veil of the temple,。
which separate the Holy of Holies and the Holy place,。
there was a long veil hanging down。
from the roof of the temple all the way down to the ground.。
When Jesus died on the cross,。
that veil, according to the gospel of Mark,。
split into two from top to bottom,。
not bottom to top,。
from top to bottom, which is a miracle.。
And the veil was open,。
because Jesus now is the center。
of people meeting God himself,。
not the stone building, not the temple,。
not in Jerusalem, but in Jesus Christ,。
no longer in the city of Jerusalem,。
no longer in the Holy temple,。
but in the person and work of Jesus Christ,。
so we can be saved and come to the Father。
and be restored to him in relationship.。
And then Shabbat came,。
because he was buried in such a hurry manner,。
and the disciples or people who asked for Jesus' body。
from the cross, they just didn't have time。
to prepare the whole body,。
because Shabbat, there's no work,。
so they have to call it off.。
And then they left the tomb,。
you know, happily prepare his body,。
and then it was Shabbat,。
for 24 hours, the Jews were not allowed to work.。
And then Sunday morning,。
when the sun rises,。
the women go back to the tomb, why?。
Because they want to finish up the preparation。
for the body of Jesus,。
but they discover an empty tomb.。
And the empty tomb can be explained in a lot of ways.。
There are a lot of strange theories,。
you can explain away the empty tomb.。
But the Bible give us the biblical reason。
why Jesus' tomb is empty,。
why only his tomb is empty,。
because by the power of the Holy Spirit,。
Jesus is risen from the dead.。
Now, I've talked through the entire week。
in two and a half minutes, right?。
Three minutes, right?。
And this is the most important week of all in human history.。
What Jesus has done in this seven days。
changed your life and changed my life,。
and changed the lives of many, many people。
from generation to generation。
in the past 2,000 plus years.。
Jesus has changed the course of our lives.。
Just as I told you,。
the person who received baptism today。
in the 10 o'clock service,。
he gave the testimony how God has touched his life,。
how Jesus has touched his life,。
and he wants to follow Jesus,。
and change the course of his life journey。
toward the kingdom.。
And that is why the gospels, all four gospels,。
and even the gospel of Mark,。
spend so much energy,。
and so much verses and chapters。
on this past,。
on this holy week,。
especially on Thursday and on Friday.。
So I want to take you a very, very quick survey。
of what is going on at the end,。
the ending two days,。
the last two days of Jesus' life.。
If you turn with me to the gospel of Mark chapter 14,。
here I give you some sort of a map, right?。
I want to encourage you in the holy week,。
go back home in your devotional,。
spend five minutes a day,。
pick the best time of your day.。
If you're an early riser,。
how many of you are early riser?。
You wake up, you feel refreshed all the time?。
None of you.。
No wonder you guys are late.。
(audience laughing)。
No wonder you guys are always late, right?。
All right, how many of you,。
your best hour is at night?。
Best hour is at night.。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
Nothing wrong with that, okay?。
Nothing wrong with that.。
But use it.。
Use three minutes, five minutes,。
turn to the gospel of Mark chapter 14 and 15.。
That is all about the Thursday and Friday,。
the last two days of Jesus' earthly life.。
And here I give you a map.。
Imagine yourself to be a movie director.。
You're gonna shoot the scenes of Jesus' last 48 hours.。
Here in chapter 14 of gospel of Mark,。
you see it's switched from A to B, A to B, A to B, right?。
All the A's are characters other than Jesus.。
All the B's are pretty much the focus of the camera。
is on Jesus himself, of what he said and what he did.。
A, you would start with 14, verses one and two.。
The Jewish leaders trying to kill Jesus。
and they have a plot to do so.。
So the focus is on the Jewish leaders,。
those who betrayed Jesus out of self-interest.。
They're trying to protect their own authority.。
The religious leaders in Jerusalem。
trying to protect their own power。
because Jesus is getting the popular movement going on.。
So that's why they hate Jesus.。
They don't want Jesus to take their place.。
So they try to take away Jesus, trying to kill him.。
And then B, the second part is Jesus is anointed。
at Bethany by Mary.。
And Mary did that in order to prepare Jesus' death, right?。
You anoint the body, the dead body,。
in order to prepare the body for burial.。
And Mary probably understood the Messiah has to die.。
That's why she came with expensive perfume。
and trying to anoint the body of Jesus.。
And then it's switched to A again,。
which is the third paragraph, is Judah, one of the 12,。
joins the plot to kill Jesus.。
And then the camera shifts back to Jesus。
preparing for the Passover meal.。
And then one of the 12, again, Judah,。
will betray Jesus.。
And then switch to number six,。
which is the sixth section, verses 22 to 25.。
Jesus shares the Passover meal with his 11 disciples.。
And all the disciples will betray Jesus,。
and Jesus foretells that.。
And then switch back to Jesus praying。
in the garden of Gethsemane.。
And then the camera switch back to Judah, one of the 12,。
betrays Jesus, and all the disciples flee in the night.。
They all escape, trying to save their own lives.。
And then he was being brought in front of the Jewish court.。
Jesus revealed himself to be the Messiah, to be the Christ.。
And then lastly, we all remember this story.。
Peter's trying to get warm。
and get into the court of the high priest.。
And then he was being interrogated, being interrogated.。
And he was afraid.。
And he denied Jesus as his Lord,。
first time, second time, and third time.。
And then everybody fled.。
Jesus was alone.。
That is chapter 14 of the Gospel of Mark.。
And you see from top down, from top to bottom,。
all the people around Jesus trying to betray him,。
flee from him, to leave him alone, right?。
To abandon him.。
From the Jewish leaders trying to kill Jesus,。
one of the 12 Jews trying to plot against Jesus,。
and all the so-called faithful disciples,。
they thought they would be strong enough。
to follow Jesus all the way to the end, but they did not.。
They were fragile.。
Their faith is shaken.。
And they left.。
From top to bottom, all the people around Jesus left.。
But from top to bottom, we find that Jesus is determined。
to go to the cross.。
Step by step, he prepared himself to go to the cross,。
to be crucified, shamefully, on the cross.。
Because he understands this is the will of the Father。
to save humankind, to save each and every one of us.。
Right at the center of the story,。
Jesus shared the last meal with his disciples,。
encouraging them and saying to them,。
"This is the covenant.。
"This is the promise I give to you.。
"As I die, as I shed my blood, and we drink this cup,。
"you know you belong to me, no matter what."。
And he foretold the disciples would betray him,。
but he also promised, "I will go to Galilee。
"after I resurrected from death.。
"So I will restore you guys."。
Right?。
What a promise, right?。
In the entire story, in the entire chapter,。
no one can boast.。
No one can boast his faith or her faith is strong enough。
to follow Jesus to the end.。
Nobody.。
Everyone around Jesus is powerless.。
Everyone is going after his own self-interest.。
Chapter 14.。
In chapter 15, also the camera is switching back and forth。
from people around Jesus and Jesus on the cross.。
First of all, B, all of B is about Jesus.。
He revealed himself to Pilate, the Roman governor.。
Now at this time, no longer the Jewish court,。
but the Roman court.。
And then the crowd wanting to crucify Jesus,。
they asked for the release of Barabbas.。
Barabbas was a criminal convicted in Jesus' day.。
And the crowd want to release this guy, a rebel,。
but they want to crucify Jesus.。
What injustice, you know, the greatest injustice。
is being done to an innocent man, Jesus himself.。
But Jesus was silent because he accepted。
as the will of the father to die on behalf of all of us.。
And then Jesus is proven to be innocent。
by the Roman governor, Pilate.。
And mockingly, Pilate called Jesus king.。
"Are you the king of the Jews?"。
And Jesus said, "I am."。
Remember we did the Bible study of Gospel of Mark?。
Whenever someone says, "I am,"。
it's not just a simple statement, right?。
It's the declaration of his divinity.。
He is God, he's the son of God.。
So he said to Pilate, the Roman governor,。
"I am the king of the Jews."。
But mockingly, Pilate, we got him as king.。
And then the soldiers mock him as king.。
He put on a purple robe, purple robe on Jesus and mock him.。
And then at the center of the story, Jesus is crucified.。
And then as we go on in this chapter, chapter 15,。
all these people around Jesus mock him as king.。
And then finally Jesus dies.。
A Roman centurion, a commander,。
proclaims at the foot of the cross,。
"Truly, this is the son of God.。
"Truly, this is the king."。
And he was looking at Jesus on the cross,。
who shamefully died and sacrificed himself。
on behalf of sinful mankind.。
This is kingship, this is leadership.。
He died so that others can live.。
He sacrificed himself so that we can be released,。
we can have freedom.。
And truly, this is the son of God.。
This is the true king, the servant king.。
And then finally, the women watching from a distance.。
And then at the end of this chapter, Jesus is buried.。
Now, as you can see, very quick,。
from 14 to 15 chapter of the Gospel of Mark,。
Jesus becomes more passive and more passive.。
He's taking on the actions of others.。
People shame him, people mock him,。
and crucify him and kill him.。
Jesus is no longer the active agent.。
He's becoming more the object of the actions of other people.。
Some Bible scholar has counted how many verbs。
are there in these two chapters.。
And there are 50 some verbs,。
50 some actions done to Jesus.。
He's being passive, the victim,。
until he's crucified and died and buried in the tomb.。
Now, at the center of it all is Jesus on the cross.。
Truly, he is the son of God.。
That is the climax of the entire Gospel of Mark.。
And it's very ironic, right?。
Now, we just had our primary election week, right?。
Did you vote?。
All those of you who could vote, you should have voted.。
But we're looking for leaders, or political leaders,。
to bring us hope, right?。
To make some positive changes in our neighborhood,。
in our city, in our government.。
We're looking for strong men and women.。
We're looking for someone who is qualified to lead us, right?。
Who has the power, military power, political power,。
or willpower to make changes, right?。
To make people follow him.。
Now, this is totally different.。
The leadership of Jesus is the other way around.。
It's the upside down leadership.。
He died, he sacrificed himself so that we can be born again.。
Here, I want to bring out two points.。
The first point is,。
Jesus sees through the logic of the cross.。
We kind of read through chapter 14 and 15。
of the Gospel of Mark.。
And you see, what Jesus was doing。
is that he lays down his life.。
He seems to be absolutely powerless.。
He has no power in his hand.。
He was nailed on the cross, he was totally passive.。
But he alone fulfills the will of God.。
He alone can save us from sin.。
A sinless one became sinful。
so that we, the sinners, can be forgiven.。
And that is why we call the Friday of the Holy Week,。
what do we call it?。
Good Friday.。
Why is it Good Friday?。
Jesus died on the cross on Friday, right?。
There's nothing good about him.。
But it was nonetheless called Good Friday。
because he has done the greatest great things for all of us.。
The salvation on the cross.。
That is the logic of the cross.。
And Jesus is condemned according to the will of the Father。
so that we are accepted.。
Jesus is punished so that our sins can be forgiven.。
We can be redeemed.。
He is cursed so that we can be blessed。
and we can be restored to God himself.。
He suffers so that we have peace with God.。
He dies so that we can have eternal life.。
And that's the most amazing logic.。
Nobody would have understood it。
until Jesus died on the cross.。
And I think the life of Jesus being summarized。
in four gospels is to challenge us and to remind us。
if we say Jesus is our Lord and our Savior,。
then our lives should reflect the value of the cross.。
What is the value of the cross?。
The logic of the cross is that we lay down our own will。
and we say to God, God our Father, your will be done.。
Every day you pray, you do devotion.。
The ultimate attitude we have is in front of God,。
we say, hey God, your will be done.。
Ultimately, it's not my will.。
Ultimately, it's not my interest.。
But your interest, your kingdom's interest。
is the utmost important to me, right?。
Your kingdom come and your will be done.。
That is the logic of the cross.。
That is the logic of Christian life.。
We come here to worship God,。
not because out of self-interest,。
because we know that Jesus should be praised.。
God should be worshiped today.。
We lay down our own interests。
so that we can exalt the name of God, right?。
That is the life pattern of all Christians.。
All normal Christian life should be like this.。
I asked you what's your best hour of the day, right?。
Probably it's the middle of the night, right?。
You do your own quiet time.。
Now, quiet time is very important。
because we kind of calibrate our own heart to the kingdom.。
We spend time with God so that God can speak to us。
when we read the word of God from the Bible.。
And we also pray to him and we speak to him our desire。
and ask him to change us, ask him to lead us.。
And that quiet time should be a calibration time。
so that we can calibrate our heart toward Jesus our Lord,。
so that our life can be constantly aligned。
with the discipleship pattern, right?。
The cross, which means thy kingdom come,。
thy will be done, not my will, but the will of the Father.。
Now, I wanna point you to the logic of the cross。
by quoting from chapter 10, verse 45 of the gospel of Mark.。
Here's one verse, and some of you already memorize it, right?。
"For even the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve,。
"but to give his life as a ransom for many."。
Some of you may have heard about this verse。
or even memorize it.。
Here, Jesus summarized the entire gospel。
or his entire life and our life as Christian。
in just one verse.。
Here he states two things.。
He makes two claims.。
He came for the purpose of serving, to serve other people.。
And he came to die.。
He came to die.。
Now, when we do Bible study,。
sometimes we pay attention to some little words。
that usually we just don't focus on。
because the word is so little.。
And I have a highlight for you.。
And the word is actually,。
you can translate the word as "and," A-N-D.。
It's a conjunction in Greek.。
It's a very simple word, right?。
And he does that, and they do that,。
and something happened, and something happened.。
The conjunction, right?。
You can translate it as A-N-D, "and."。
Simply, simple translation, literal translation.。
But you can also translate。
because of the context requires you。
to translate it differently.。
So here, all the English versions,。
English translations, render it as "even."。
You see that?。
Even.。
Now, I was trying to dig through all the Chinese translations.。
They all missed this, except one,。
the contemporary Chinese version.。
It says, "Even the Son of Man。
"came not to be served, but to serve."。
Now, what's the effect?。
What's the difference?。
There's a huge difference。
if you translate this little word differently.。
If you translate "and," you still get the sense.。
But if you translate "even," it becomes more important。
because it tells you, when you translate as "even,"。
even for this, for "even the Son of Man came to be served,"。
or came not to be served, but to serve.。
If you translate "even," the effect would be,。
it tells you,。
if anyone could reasonably be expected not to serve,。
but to be served by others.。
It is the Son of Man.。
It's Jesus himself.。
Jesus reasonably expect all the other people around him。
to serve him, right?。
He's not here to serve other people, right?。
Think of yourself as king and queen,。
princess or prince, right?。
Think of yourself on a high status.。
You expect other people to serve you, right?。
I have some friends in Hong Kong,。
they hire servants to do the housework, right?。
Do you have a servant in your household。
to manage the do-the-dishes?。
Maybe your husband is, right?。
Somebody do the work for you.。
You expect someone to serve you.。
Here Jesus said, "Even the Son of Man came not to be served."。
And the effect is, even he himself。
can reasonably, legitimately,。
require everyone around him to serve him.。
But even the Son of Man came not to be served,。
but to serve other people, right?。
Think of the 24 hours each day.。
You know, what is your attitude, right?。
Our normal, typical attitude as a human being。
is being occupied by our own self-interest, right?。
Our own self-desire usually, or most of the time,。
is the top priority, right?。
Even for us who come to church,。
our desire mostly are out of self-interest.。
I come because I want to get something out of it, right?。
Oh, you got good food, okay?。
So I come, right?。
Oh, your food is crappy.。
I don't come, right?。
I'd rather spend my time somewhere else, right?。
I come to church because I expect to be served, right?。
I'm preoccupied by my own self-interest.。
People come and pray for me,。
or care about me, right?。
Or treat me well, right?。
That is our normal, typical expectation.。
But here, Jesus said, "Even the Son of Man,"。
even the King himself,。
"came not to be served,。
"but the other way around, to serve other people."。
So I want to remind you in this Holy Week,。
the life of Jesus, as all four Gospels emphasize。
how important these seven days,。
these seven last days for Jesus.。
He came to serve us,。
not to be served by us.。
And you would say Jesus is your Lord.。
And if you say, "I am a Christian, I follow Christ,"。
shouldn't our pattern,。
shouldn't our expectations be different?。
Our life pattern should be different.。
To reflect a little bit more what Jesus is,。
to serve other people, and not to be served.。
Think of one thing you can do for the church,。
for the church family,。
that you are not being served, but to serve other people.。
One thing they all suggest, to pray for the church, right?。
Spend some time and pray for the church.。
Pray for the church ministry.。
People devote their time and energy。
in order to make it work, right?。
In order to run the church, in order to grow the church.。
Pray for them.。
And secondly, I would suggest,。
maybe find something you can plug in, you know?。
You can try to help out, you know?。
Maybe just talk to new people, right?。
Come in with a smile, as simple as that.。
The pattern of discipleship.。
Not to be served, but to serve, right?。
Pray for those who are preparing the service next week.。
You know, Josh was leading worship today,。
and we spent a couple hours practicing, right?。
That's why he didn't sing our tune, right?。
He practiced.。
He came to serve, not to be served, right?。
So that we can enjoy worship together, right?。
There are many, many things I would suggest。
that you have to think just upside down, right?。
Not to be served, but to serve other people, right?。
To do good to other people, right?。
Or even after the service, you know,。
go to the people in the backstage,。
encourage them, appreciate them.。
'Cause they took their time, they took their energy,。
not out of self-interest, right?。
There's no benefit, right?。
But they serve, nonetheless.。
Do something so that we can build up the church together.。
Do something so that we can walk。
a little bit more like Christ himself, right?。
Let's do that, amen?。
Let's pray.。
Father, we come before you in this holy week,。
on this Palm Sunday, to remember what you have done for us.。
And thank you for being our sermon king.。
Thank you for dying on the cross so that we can have life.。
Thank you for experiencing the shame of the cross。
so that we can be honored.。
And thank you for your redemption.。
Thank you for granting us this new life。
so that we can reflect the value of the kingdom.。
And Jesus, we come before you.。
We ask that you change our heart。
so that we are not to be served, but to serve others,。
just like Jesus did for all of us.。
Thank you for your love,。
and thank you for the new life we can experience,。
and help us to know how to follow you,。
to build up your body, to build up your kingdom,。
to extend your kingdom, to preach the gospel,。
to invite people into your kingdom.。
There are so many different things we can do。
in the pattern of Jesus.。
And I pray that you will lead us,。
help our church to grow spiritually,。
to grow in the image of your son, more and more.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Well, God bless you,。
and make sure you come a little bit early。
so that we can enjoy the eighth anniversary,。
I don't know what you call it, what, refreshment?。
special refreshment.。
OK?。
All right.。
