Good morning everyone.。
Well why don't we say hi to each other and give them a high five.。
Alright.。
Say welcome to our worship service.。
Okay let's do that.。
Let's do high five.。
Let's stand up.。
Let's do high five with at least three friends.。
Okay.。
Yeah go around the room.。
Yeah give them a high five.。
Yeah.。
Give them a high five.。
Alright.。
Yeah.。
Thanks Isaac.。
Thanks for the effort.。
Thank you Isaac.。
Alright.。
Good to see you all.。
As you can tell we gather every Sunday.。
We sing, we pray, we study the word and listen to sermon and we have to ask the question。
what worship is all about.。
Now we say we come to worship and worship this word is derived from an old English word。
worship and the word has to do with value and honor and the value of a person of an。
object.。
So as you can tell worship is about the value we ascribe to God and the honor he deserves.。
And you can tell from Revelation 4 there's a verse here that talks about worship in heaven。
and it says you are worthy God you are worthy oh Lord our God to receive glory honor and。
power.。
So we come together to worship and today we're going to take a look at Psalm 8 and。
it's about worship.。
It's a Psalm about worship.。
And the first point here is to appreciate the worth of God our Creator and verse 1 it。
says oh Lord our Lord how majestic is your name in all the earth and you have set your。
glory above the heavens.。
And Psalm 8 begins with an exclamation shouting out loud you know the Psalmist David praising。
God here say oh Lord our Lord your name is great in all the earth and when you know when。
the Psalmist look at the heavens the sky he bursts out with awe and wonder and worshiping。
and praising God.。
Now last week a couple days ago many people go out to the electoral or just you know somewhere。
in the supper to see what to see the northern lights right to see the northern lights.。
Have you have you seen it?。
Anyone?。
Raise your hand.。
You go out and try to see it.。
Okay there's only one I mean what are you guys doing?。
Look at the screen and you know people people going out to see the northern lights even。
in Chicago we can see it and people when they see it they feel the wonder of creation the。
wonder of the universe and here is here are some of the pictures taken by my son Nathan。
right outside his house.。
He just walked outside the house and just turned around and took some pictures and you。
know my goodness my goodness.。
You know we need to appreciate the creation and appreciate the creator right?。
So I can tell you never done it before.。
That's what's going on in your life.。
We are in a position to observe the wonder of God and some years ago I read a book called。
the Purvish Planet.。
Some years ago it's written by a scientist and he called the book the thesis.。
Our planet is a Purvish planet and what he means is that he argues that our earth you。
know our planet earth is ideally and uniquely positioned in the entire cosmos in the Milky。
Way to observe the wonders of creation.。
You see we are in a very unique position and God created in such a way that we can appreciate。
it and verse 2 it says from the lips of children and infants you have ordained praises or strength.。
Now this verse is difficult to translate you can find different translations of verse 2。
but the idea is that when you think of babies the infants sometimes we more than people。
will find them you know babies are cute right?。
Baby are very very lovely and adorable but in the ancient world in the biblical world。
babies are powerless people they are defenseless.。
And even today when you think of babies you know they are helpless and they need our cares。
but this psalm says God helps the helpless and God draw closer to those who trust in。
him and defends the humble against the enemies.。
And this psalm continues to talk about our value our worth.。
Verse 3 when I consider your heavens God your work your fingers the moon and the stars which。
you have set in place what is mankind that you are mindful of them?。
Human beings that you care for them.。
Psalm 8 describes us each and every one of us as man.。
And man in Hebrew is Enosh the word is a Hebrew word and what it means is mere mortal we are。
mortals and we passed away quickly.。
And the whole theme here is that the psalm is trying to tell us we humans are fragile。
but the psalm marvels at our values in the sight of God.。
And then you know I have to remind you I'm getting old too you know in the past few weeks。
I have been having a lower back pain and it's lingering for days and it really trouble me。
and I have to admit that what the psalm says you know I am getting old you know I don't。
look old but I am getting old and this psalm is you know is correct in terms of talking。
about we are weak but God is strength and God is worthy of our worship.。
And that's why the psalm talks about the paradox of human beings on the one hand we are worthy。
but on the other hand we are fragile we are weak.。
And then here it talks about God caring for humankind caring for him and the sense is。
the meaning is like taking attendance of a class you know God is caring for us and mindful。
of us it's like taking the roll call hey are you here?。
You know you have the attention of God.。
And here the psalm continues to talk about to talk about our work.。
Psalm 8 5 to 9 it says you have made humankind a little lower than the angels and crowned。
them with glory and honor.。
You made them rulers over the works of your hand you put everything under their feet all。
flocks and herds the animals of the wild the birds in the sky the fish in the sea that。
all that swim in the paths of the sea.。
Our Lord how majestic is your name in all the earth.。
Now so many years ago not so many years ago maybe 30 some years ago in 1990 okay some。
of you were not born yet in 1990 you know NASA sent a machine called Voyager 1 into。
the deep space so it was in 1990 it was launched into deep space and the mission of the Voyager。
is to take pictures of the galaxy is to take picture of the deep space and when this Voyager。
1 left the earth about 3.7 billion miles away NASA told this machine to turn around and。
took a picture of the planet earth and the picture was taken on February 14th Valentine's。
Day 1990 as you can see our entire planet earth appear as a tiny speck this picture。
is a very famous picture it's called pale blue dot as you can see it can you find it。
the blue dot that's our earth.。
That pale blue dot is where we are now.。
Now this picture of pale blue dot reminds us how small and tiny we are.。
There's also a picture of world view you know from atheistic world view and you see。
the pale blue dot in the vast universe and we have no inherent meaning.。
But the bible the bible presents a totally different picture totally different world。
view.。
Psalm 8 here tells us the God who made the universe still knows you the God who made。
the universe still loves you and cares for all of us and we are called to be the steward。
of the creation of God.。
And human beings are not you are not an accident God made all of us each and every one of us.。
See that's a totally different world view the bible presents to us God made each and。
every one of us a little bit lower than the angels and God give us the highest honor possible.。
You know we ask ourselves what is our net worth sometimes right.。
Okay I want you to take 15 seconds try to calculate your net worth.。
You know how much money you make and how much money you have in the bank or in your investment。
account you know try to add them up all together how much net worth do you have.。
Elon Musk has a total net worth at this point 467 billion and Bill Gates has a net worth。
right now 104 billion.。
But the psalm says God says your worth is not measured never measured by money you are。
crowned with glory and honor from God.。
And God made each and every one of us manager the ruler representatives of God the king。
the creator.。
Psalm 8 here is actually a summary of Genesis 1.。
And thank God and this is some of the take homes that we should get from Psalm 8 first。
is God is worthy of our worship and we need to develop some habits of worshipping God。
and the first thing I want to remind you is that before worship before we start at 1130。
we come early so that you can spend 30 seconds to pray and you can pray a simple prayer you。
know Lord I want to focus my attention on you and your name is majestic.。
And during the worship service like here now we should continue to pray and with a prayerful。
attitude and pray to God you know God I come to see you and you know talk to me speak to。
me.。
And then after the worship service we should spend a little bit of time like 15 30 seconds。
you know when we end our worship we should meditate you know what kind of things that。
God want me to see today.。
And you are worthy of our praise you know we tell God you know we want to worship you。
and the second point is that you each and every one of you are worthy of the care of。
our God.。
See God sees you wherever you are.。
Sometimes we are too occupied with our own works.。
Let's turn our attention to God fully and worship God together.。
Let's pray.。
Lord our Lord how majestic is your name in all the earth.。
Thank you God for reminding us that though we are small you see us you love us you crown。
us with glory and honor.。
Help us worship you with a focused heart and may our lives continue to declare your glory.。
In Jesus name we pray.。
Amen.。
All right welcome to all of you and so blessed to see you all and remember next week is 11。
right 11 11 o'clock not here guys not here okay go to Farmer 11 o'clock be there on time。
okay otherwise the food will be all gone okay.。
God bless.。
(soft music)。
[Music]。
