sharing God's message.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Good morning, everyone, and welcome to UV,。
and I know it's quite a hassle to come to church today,。
and I'm driving an all-wheel drive BMW,。
and I still kind of drift on the side road especially,。
so it was kind of dangerous, yeah.。
So you guys got here okay?。
Right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Okay, so we'll continue our mini-series。
on the Psalms in the Bible,。
and today we are at Psalm 139.。
And 139, Psalm 139, and if you have a Bible app。
or a printed Bible, I want to invite you。
to turn to 139, Psalm 139.。
It is one of the most beloved Psalms in the Bible.。
It is the most important Psalm in the Bible.。
It's Psalm 139.。
It is one of the most beloved passages,。
Psalm poems in the Bible,。
and it is often read in many different situations.。
You know, whether we go to a hospital to visit someone,。
or we read the Psalm at funerals,。
or moments of deep anxiety, or even birthday celebration,。
we take 139, Psalm 139, and use it.。
And people turn to this Psalm because it speaks。
to all of us something about human existence,。
something universal, and the longing,。
human longing to be known by someone.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And we live in a world that is often being seen。
by somebody else, right?。
In this high-tech world,。
we are always being seen all the time,。
and cameras are everywhere, right?。
Cameras are everywhere, and there was GPS tracking,。
and the big data is observing us and tracking us down.。
And how many of you got a speeding ticket recently?。
How many of you?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay, so we live in the world.。
I got a speeding ticket not too long ago on accident,。
actually, yeah, I was rushing to church,。
and I coming to worship, okay?。
I was kind of late for music practice,。
and I got a ticket, all right?。
So we do live in the world often being seen。
and often being observed by someone else.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Imagine you're being seen by someone else,。
and the feeling of it is like you're being seen,。
and it feels like sometimes feels like losing your control.。
We fear about being seen and being misunderstood。
or being reduced by somebody's sight.。
We're being judged, and this fear shapes。
how we relate to other people。
and even how we relate to God himself.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
There's a modern French philosopher.。
His name is Jean-Paul Sartre,。
and he's an atheist philosopher,。
and there are some books that he wrote that he argued。
being seen is actually a threat to human freedom, right?。
That makes sense, right?。
You're being seen all the time,。
and you don't feel like you're being free all the time,。
and Jean-Paul Sartre gave us some examples,。
and one of them is that you imagine a time。
that a stranger stares at you.。
There are strangers staring at you,。
and that feeling of it is being,。
your existence being reduced into an object of someone else。
and an object in their eyes,。
and you don't feel, at least you don't feel comfortable,。
right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, all of us drive, right?。
All of us drive on the highway, on the road, okay?。
So you kind of find that experience familiar.。
Just imagine you're driving on the highway,。
and you're free, and you're doing your thing, right?。
There's no pressure, and you enjoy the drive,。
and you look around, and then all of a sudden,。
a police car is following you,。
and then you check the back mirror,。
and you saw the car behind you, and how do you feel?。
You feel pressure, right?。
You feel kind of like very uptight,。
and you try to be careful, and you focus on the road,。
and especially what?。
The speed limit, right?。
The stop sign, and then you try to drive carefully.。
Now, that is the experience of being seen。
and being judged all the time.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, being seen feels like being judged, right?。
Now, the difference is who is seeing you,。
who is looking at you, right?。
If it's a police car following you,。
you feel being judged, and you feel pressure,。
but as we turn to Psalm 139,。
we find that there is someone else seeing us all the time.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the first thing here is that,。
try to advance the PowerPoint here, yeah.。
The first point here in this Psalm 139 says,。
"God sees us completely."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, Psalm 139 opens with the third,。
"Fear we think that John Paul Sarge find it fearful."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
It says, "O Lord, you have searched me, and you know me.。
"You know when I sit, and you know when I rise.。
"You perceive my thoughts from afar.。
"You discern my going out and my lying down.。
"You are familiar with all my ways.。
"Before a word is on my tongue,。
"you know it completely, O Lord.。
"You hand me in behind and before.。
"You have laid your hand upon me.。
"Such knowledge is too wonderful for me,。
"too lofty for me to attend."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And that is one of the Psalms that we have just did, right?。
And God sees and God knows here.。
And God searches the depth of your life.。
And God knows when you sit, when you sit down,。
or when you stand up.。
Now, sitting is kind of a posture of resting, right?。
You wanna take a break and you sit down.。
And the standing is another posture of working, probably,。
especially for the ancient people.。
So the Psalms says God pays attention to you。
when you are resting, when you are working.。
God seeing means God is caring for you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And here, God is not like a police,。
it's not like a police officer trying to judge you。
and find some faults in you.。
Here, God is caring for you with His sight。
and giving you comfort.。
And don't you find comfort in a God。
who always cares for you and sees you?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And here, the gaze of God is total。
and there's no hiding from God.。
And we cannot hide from Him.。
There's no escape from the sight of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then the second point here。
is that God is present everywhere.。
So let us look at the scripture here, 7 to 9 first.。
Where can I go from your spirit, God?。
Spirit, God, where can I flee from your presence?。
If I go to the heavens, you are there.。
If I make my bed in the depths,。
the deepest part of the world, you are there.。
If I rise on the wings of the dawn,。
it means the extremity of direction.。
If I settle on the far side of the sea, go ahead.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then it continues to say,。
even there your hand will guide me。
and your right hand will hold me fast.。
If I say surely the darkness will hide me。
and the light become night around me.。
Even the darkness will not be dark to you,。
the night will shine like the day。
for darkness is as light to you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So here you hear the poet trying to pray to God。
who is always present.。
And this doesn't seem to be a cry。
of someone trying to escape from God.。
And it's a realization that God's presence cannot be lost.。
And there's no place that God is absent.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, the poet is David.。
I mentioned to you the philosopher John Paul Sartre, right?。
For John Paul Sartre, such a knowledge。
that God is always seeing you,。
being seen all the time means losing your freedom。
and your existence because you are always being looked at,。
right, being stared at.。
And then for David, for the poet here,。
being seen is a totally different thing。
because here being seen is being seen。
by a God who cares about you.。
And the gaze of God does not disappear。
when life becomes dark, when you can't see in the dark.。
God is still seeing you and God does not withdraw。
when circumstances go dark or go bad.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, this is interesting。
because it's the who is looking at you, right?。
It's not a police officer, it's a God who cares about you.。
And the presence of God does not expose us。
in order to shame us.。
The presence of God accompanies us。
in order to sustain our life.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And there's no height,。
there's no height that God is not impressed by us.。
And there's no depth,。
no, the deepest part where God is discussed by us.。
And here the Psalm says,。
God is always present in good things and in bad things,。
in your success, in your failures,。
in your obedience, in your confusion.。
And to be seen by God to David。
is loved by God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
I remember when our first child, Rachel was born。
and she was days old or a few weeks old.。
And she was lying on her crib.。
And I, of course, I'm a loving father.。
And I look at her and I see her and I care about her,。
even though she is not paying attention to me.。
And she was sleeping and I see every single move of hers.。
And this is the idea。
the Psalms trying to provide for us。
is that God is not like a police officer。
or a judge trying to catch us doing wrong,。
trying to issue a ticket or citation to us.。
God is a caring God, always looking at you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And here the psalm continues to tell us。
to invite us to know this God who cares about us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Let's continue to read this psalm。
from verses 13 and following.。
For you create my inmost being,。
you knit me together in my mother's womb.。
I praise you because I'm fearfully and wonderfully made.。
Your works are wonderful.。
I know that full well.。
My frame was not hidden from you。
when I was made in the secret place,。
when I was woven together in the depths of the earth.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And here continue in verse 16.。
Your eyes saw my unformed body.。
All the days ordained for me were written in your book。
before one of them came to be.。
How precious to me are your thoughts, O God.。
How vast is the sum of them.。
Were I to count them,。
they would outnumber the grains of sand.。
When I awake, I am still with you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- So where does the knowledge of God about you begin?。
God's knowledge or God's seeing of you。
did not begin when you are doing good, all right?。
God saw you before you perform,。
before any of your activities,。
before your failure,。
even before your self-awareness of your existence.。
This means our lives are not accidents to God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- So God's seeing of us precede our shame。
or even our existence.。
And that's why David, the poet, can say,。
I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made.。
God seeing you gives life rather than death.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And here at the end,。
the psalm turns personal and prayerful.。
It says verses 23 and 24.。
Search me, O God, and know my heart,。
and test me, and know my anxious thoughts.。
See if there's any offensive way in me。
and lead me in the way everlasting.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And this is, I think, the most beloved line。
in the entire psalm,。
or the most surprising line in the psalm.。
And the psalm invites us to follow God and to trust Him.。
And it does not ask God to look away from us,。
ask God to look even deeper in our lives.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And psalm 139, let me conclude,。
calls you, or all of us, to know God.。
And it's not just knowing about Him, to know Him.。
And to be known by God is actually grace,。
and to grow in Him.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And knowing God here means we stop hiding from Him.。
We can be honest and we can be open。
and transparent before God.。
And it means we allow God not only to comfort us,。
but to lead us.。
And the gaze of God, the sight of Him,。
does not merely reveal who we really are,。
but lead us into ways of everlasting life following Him.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And today, I wanna invite you to conclude with a prayer,。
to come before this God, and to accept Him,。
and to love Him back, to relate to Him.。
So let us all pray together.。
Let's pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Lord, you see us completely, and you still love us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Thank you, because your gaze is not meant to shame us,。
but to guide us and to love us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And help us, Lord, not only to rest in being known by you,。
but to truly know you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And with the psalm, we wanna conclude。
with our heartful prayer, lead us, God, in the way everlasting.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- In Christ, we pray.。
- Amen. - Amen.。
- Well, God bless you, and always be seen by God this week,。
and knowing that God is always watching over you。
and caring for you, all right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
