email, so yeah.。
So today we have Pastor Mark to give us a message today.。
- Hey guys, we are starting a new series,。
and this series I want to connect the Bible and the land.。
Now you have heard me saying the Bible。
is not written to us, right?。
It's written for us, alright?。
Now why do I say that?。
Why do I say that?。
Because indeed the Bible was an ancient document,。
and it's not directly written to us,。
but it's written for us.。
That's why we need to understand the Bible。
in its own context.。
So I want to connect the Bible and the land.。
Sometimes we read the Bible, we read scripture,。
without the context, without the background.。
And that's why we miss so much of the nuance。
of what the word of God will say.。
So I would like to explore the whole land with you,。
at least virtually, virtually we can do that,。
and think about some of the Bible passages,。
some of the words of God.。
And today we are going to a place called Hezekiah Tunnel.。
Hezekiah Tunnel.。
And one of those passages that mention this tunnel。
is found in the book of 2 Kings, chapter 20, verse 20.。
Let me read that first.。
The rest of the events, the account in Hezekiah's reign,。
including the extent of his power and how he built a pool。
and dug a tunnel to bring water into the city。
are recorded in the book of the history。
of the Kings of Judah.。
Hezekiah died and his son Manasseh became the next king.。
That is toward the end of the kingly account。
or royal record of King Hezekiah.。
Now he's a good guy, and that's why we want to spend。
some time with what he did and what it means to us today.。
There are three points I want to go through.。
The first one is to understand who Hezekiah is。
and the record of his reign.。
That's the first part.。
The second part is the importance of faith。
from a biblical perspective.。
And third point is the call for stewardship,。
biblical stewardship.。
Now first one is the record of Hezekiah.。
Now if you read 1 and 2 Kings, it's original one book,。
it records king after king what they did。
and sort of a political history, sort of a political book,。
talking about the kingdoms, right?。
Remember David, well Saul was the first king,。
and then David and then Solomon,。
and then the United Kingdom under these three kings。
crumble after Solomon.。
And then it was split into North and South, right?。
The Northern Kingdom is called Israel.。
The Southern Kingdom is called Judah.。
So then they parallel and develop,。
and there are so many different kings。
in the Northern Kingdom and the Southern Kingdom.。
And 1 and 2 Kings are tracing the political history。
of what happened to the people of God in those days.。
So there were about 19 kings in the Northern nation。
of Israel, 19 kings, and all of them,。
all 19 of them are bad guys.。
And then the Southern Kingdom had about 20 kings,。
only eight of them are good guys,。
and all the rest of them are bad guys.。
Now this scripture, this passage that I just read。
is the conclusion of Hezekiah's reign.。
Now the Bible in 1 and 2 Kings。
spend about three chapters, long chapters,。
to record what is important in the political history。
of King Hezekiah.。
And this is toward the very, very end,。
the last couple of verses.。
He said what?。
"The rest of the event in the reign of Hezekiah,。
"including the extent of his power,。
"and how he built a water pool。
"and dug a water tunnel to bring water into the city,。
"are recorded in the book of the history。
"of the kings of Judah.。
"And then he died, and his son became the next king."。
Now what happened in the reign of Hezekiah。
was that he had a big problem,。
and the problem is called Assyrian problem.。
Now if you know, imagine a big map,。
the Middle East, the Near East.。
Right at your upper right-hand corner。
is the big guy, the Assyrian Empire,。
with mighty military power.。
And they're expanding to the west.。
Expanding to the west,。
and the ultimate goal is to conquer Egypt.。
In order for Assyrian Empire to conquer Egypt,。
he has to pass through one land bridge,。
the only land bridge of the world.。
It's the land of King.。
That's where Hezekiah was, Jerusalem was there.。
Israel, Palestine.。
It's the land bridge for all three big continents, right?。
Europe, Asia Minor, and then Africa, and then Asia.。
Now he had to pass through the land of Kingdom。
in order to go to his ultimate destination,。
which is Egypt, right?。
So he had to pass through that land,。
but if the local kings in the Middle East。
if the local kings in the land bridge。
obey him and follow the empire of Assyria,。
then you're okay, right?。
You just pay more taxes, right?。
If you rebel against the Assyrian Empire,。
the Assyrian Kingdom, the military might。
will come down upon you and will crush you.。
Now in those days, the military strategy。
for conquering a city is to lay siege around the city.。
You know what lay siege around the city is?。
They surround the whole city,。
and then they trap you inside the city wall, right?。
And then until you, staff you to death。
or thirst you to death, right?。
You can't come out, you can't go in, right?。
And that's what Assyrian military is trying to do.。
To Hezekiah in Jerusalem.。
So what Hezekiah did was he tried to block。
all this small water sources,。
all of this mountain spring, small springs,。
around the city of Jerusalem in the hill country.。
And then he shut himself into his own city.。
And Hezekiah's strategy is so that the city。
is prepared for the siege with enough food and enough water。
so that the Assyrian soldiers surrounding Jerusalem,。
hopefully they will get tired。
and then they will go back home, right?。
So as long as you make sure you are sustainable,。
the city is sustainable, then you're okay.。
And that is the strategy of Hezekiah.。
I think that's the only way, right?。
'Cause you cannot stand against a monster, right?。
You gotta prepare yourself.。
So that's what Hezekiah did.。
He built a new water tunnel to bring water into the city.。
Now back in those days, usually when you need to get water,。
you had to go outside of the city wall to the valley.。
'Cause usually the spring is in the valley, right?。
It's outside the city wall and then you come back, right?。
In time of peace, you're okay, right?。
You pass through city gate two times a day,。
go out and go in.。
You get enough water, you come back.。
But in times of war, you cannot do that.。
That's what Hezekiah did.。
He tried to block all this little water springs。
in Jerusalem area and then shut himself into his own capital。
and built a new plumbing to bring water into the city。
so that they can sustain the Assyrian siege.。
Now I have three minute video.。
I wanna show you what this tunnel is like.。
Now as I said, the background of the Bible,。
the context of Bible is very concrete.。
You can actually walk it.。
You can actually see it and touch it.。
So Hezekiah tunnel is one of them.。
Let me try to show you the three minute video.。
(crowd chattering)。
- My right is Gihon Springs.。
Gihon Springs right here.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Oh, so cold.。
(crowd chattering)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(crowd chattering)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(crowd chattering)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(crowd chattering)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- This is the Hezekiah tunnel。
and we are walking through it。
and we are using a 360 camera。
so that you can see the environment.。
And this is a man-made tunnel, 2,000 feet long。
and done by two different teams.。
And one team starting from the spring,。
from the origin of the water.。
And the other team is coming from the port of Siloam,。
south of the city of David.。
And two teams listening to one another。
and they are built through the mountain.。
And as you can see, the size of the tunnel is a body.。
And they dig and dig and dig。
and they listen to each other and the noise of the digging.。
And they try to meet together.。
And at the end of the engineering project,。
two teams did meet together.。
And it was a celebration.。
And the water tunnel is through。
and the water from the Gihon Strait。
can go down to the south of the city of David。
so that people can get the water。
without going out of the city wall.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(people chattering)。
- Sorry about that.。
This is my bad.。
And now, the tunnel is too long.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(people chattering)。
(people chattering)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Well, it is very interesting, right?。
You can actually walk the tunnel。
that is recorded in the Bible.。
And especially you have a 360 camera.。
And thanks to Hale for lending the camera.。
I think in the YouTube world,。
we are the first one recording the tunnel。
using a 360 camera.。
Yeah, praise God.。
Anyways, makes you wanna go, right?。
Makes you wanna go.。
It spent about 40 minutes to walk the entire tunnel.。
Total pitch darkness.。
And it was built in Hezekiah time, 700 BC.。
That's when Hezekiah had a crisis.。
If you see the diagram here,。
you see that the Gihon Spring,。
which is now flowing,。
even now, there are clean water coming out of the mountain。
from Gihon Spring.。
Gihon Spring is on the right.。
You see that blue line?。
That blue line, S-shaped, curved blue line。
is the line of Hezekiah Tunnel.。
I was kind of walking the first third of the tunnel.。
So you start from Gihon Spring on the right.。
And then the entire tunnel is about 2,000 feet long.。
And you walk the entire thing with a flashlight.。
And you went through the tunnel to the end,。
and you come out to the open air again,。
which is on the left.。
The left is Siloam Pool.。
Now this is a mighty thing that Hezekiah did in his time.。
And let me tell you this.。
If you understand a little bit about the background,。
you know this tunnel, 2,000 feet long,。
a body width, right?。
If you're too big in size, you cannot fit in, right?。
And good luck to you, right?。
And then water flowing from the spring。
all the way to the Siloam Pool inside the city.。
This water tunnel, this plumbing system。
was the greatest achievement in his time。
in the entire world.。
You go back to 700 BC,。
the greatest plumbing system was done by Hezekiah Tunnel.。
You can't find it in Rome.。
You can't find it in Greece.。
You can't find it in Iran or Iraq.。
The greatest plumbing system of all time。
during Hezekiah's time was found there.。
And we were walking through it, right?。
The greatest plumbing system.。
Probably the plumbing system is better。
than those in your homes.。
The best plumbing system.。
The best achievement.。
And because of that,。
now one of the questions is why the tunnel was not straight?。
Why wasn't it straight?。
From left to right,。
the shortest distance should be a straight line, right?。
Through the mountain, right?。
You just hill through the mountain, straight line.。
Now what happened was that。
because during the Assyrian crisis,。
they had to build this plumbing system ASAP,。
as soon as possible.。
So he divided into two teams of workers.。
They're trying to dig from,。
one dig from the spring, downhill.。
The other team, team B, is digging from the water pool。
at, on your lower left, all the way uphill.。
And they're trying to hear the noise of digging.。
Trying to discern where the other team is.。
So they're trying to dig through the mountain.。
That's why it's curving around inside the mountain.。
Now this is a great achievement。
because, no, you didn't have any GPS, right?。
You didn't even have flashlight back then.。
You only have oil lamp, right?。
You have oil lamp and candle,。
and then you have to go through the mountain,。
totally dark, and try to hear the noise。
so that you can meet together at the midpoint.。
You see the midpoint?。
They're trying to dig in, you know,。
with some excitement, right?。
You want to get to work, right?。
Because the Assyrians are coming.。
Crisis is coming to us.。
So they're trying to meet together.。
So the middle point is kind of like,。
there are some false starts,。
there are some false places。
they have to correct themselves.。
So that's why the tunnel is not straight.。
And then toward the end, there is an inscription.。
About 150 years ago, there's a high school boy。
who skipped school that day, 150 years ago.。
And then he was swimming in the pool.。
And then he started to say to himself,。
"Okay, let me go inside the tunnel."。
So he swam, swimming, swimming,。
and swim a little bit into the tunnel,。
about six meters deep inside the tunnel.。
And then he slipped.。
He drowned a little bit, and then he got up.。
And then he wiped his face,。
and he saw a stone inscription on the side of the tunnel.。
And that inscription can be translated,。
and it is kind of, you know,。
two feet by one foot,。
a stone inscription.。
And if you translate it,。
what it says is the story of digging through the tunnel.。
Let me translate it.。
The tunnel, this is the story of the tunnel.。
And they are digging against each other。
while three cubits was left.。
The voice of a man called to his teammate,。
his counterpart, and there was a sada,。
whatever that is, right?。
Probably a crack in the rock.。
And on the right and on the left,。
on the day of the tunnel,。
the stone covers struck each other。
toward his counterpart, X against X,。
and flow water from the source, the Gihon Spring,。
to the port for 1,200 cubits.。
It's about 1,900 feet long,。
and six cubit high in terms of the height of the tunnel。
over the head of the stone covers.。
Now, I don't know how to translate。
to express the excitement,。
because this is a historical record, right?。
So all you can do, all I can do,。
is add exclamation mark, right?。
You add a lot of exclamation mark.。
This is the greatest achievement of all time.。
It is the water tunnel is being done, right?。
So the high school boy who skipped school that day。
found this important inscription.。
So I guess one of the lesson is it's okay to skip school.。
You found something really, really important, right?。
Anyways, this is what the Bible recorded.。
This is the water tunnel, the greatest achievement of all.。
And second king did not fail to mention it.。
And that's the first point.。
But the second point I want to bring out。
is the importance of faith.。
Let me try to understand the biblical perspective。
on the life of Hezekiah.。
And how does the Bible see your life?。
How does Bible evaluate your life?。
How does the Bible evaluate the reign of Hezekiah?。
Let's take a look at this passage again.。
2020, second Kings.。
The rest of the events in Hezekiah's reign,。
including the extent of his power,。
how he built this and that water tunnel,。
recorded somewhere else in the book of history。
of the kings of Judah.。
Now this face, the rest of his achievements,。
is often repeated throughout the book of first and second Kings。
for each king, his political history.。
At the end of it, the book of Kings always concludes。
the rest of the events of this king or that king.。
Now in terms of Hezekiah, the Bible sees,。
did record the great achievement, the water tunnel.。
Again, it's the best plumbing system in his time。
in the world.。
However, what is the key word here?。
The key word is the rest.。
Now if you record, if you are the court historian,。
if you're going to write a book on Hezekiah,。
what would you spend most of your details。
or most of your content on?。
You're gonna talk about this tunnel.。
You're gonna talk about the engineering project,。
the water engineering project, right?。
Now if you have read some of the political history。
or autobiographies of politicians,。
you will open the book and you find,。
okay, this president or that politician。
has done something great, right?。
That's what biography, royal biography does.。
To praise a guy or a lady,。
how, what great achievement he has done or she has done.。
All kinds of autobiographies,。
Obama, Hillary Clinton, or whatever big politicians,。
when they write their own biography,。
when they write their own story,。
they would lift up or exalt。
the great things they have done.。
Here, second Kings has done something totally different.。
The greatest project, yeah, I'll mention it,。
but it's the rest of the archive.。
You can dig it up, right?。
I save it on another hard drive, right?。
But you can reshift the data if you want,。
if you're interested.。
But I'm not interested in it, right?。
It's in the rest of his deeds,。
the rest of his achievement is recorded in the other book.。
That's what I'm talking about.。
I wanna talk about not his great achievement.。
I wanna talk about something else.。
Now, this is the biblical perspective on someone's life.。
Think about your life.。
If you're gonna write a book,。
a biography of yourself, your history,。
what would you put in it?。
You probably would think, naturally,。
we would think that we'll put our great achievement, right?。
Which school I went to, I went to Harvard,。
I went to the best school of the world,。
I got the best education, right?。
I graduated with, I don't know, straight A, 4.0, right?。
And I went to this company or that company,。
Fortune 500 company, I got so much achievement.。
And I'm gonna put it in my book, my reign.。
But that is not the perspective of the Bible.。
The Bible pay attention to something else.。
Yeah, you have your own achievement, that's fine.。
I'm gonna talk about it in one verse.。
The rest of the chapters from 2 Kings 18 to 20,。
what does the book of Kings talk about?。
And think about it.。
If you understand the perspective,。
how would the Bible, how would God sees your life?。
How would God evaluates your life?。
The rest of his deeds, mentioned somewhere else.。
But what I wanna focus on,。
what the Bible wants to emphasize is this.。
At the beginning of Hezekiah's reign, his record,。
18 verse three,。
Hezekiah did what was pleasing in the Lord's sight.。
Just as his ancestor, his father David, had done.。
He removed the pagan shrines, smashed the sacred pillars,。
and cut down Asherah posts.。
Those are the pagan idols across his country.。
He broke them and he removed them.。
Hezekiah trust in the Lord God of Israel.。
There was no one like him among all the kings of Judah,。
either before or after his time.。
He remained faithful to the Lord in everything.。
And he carefully obey all the commands。
of the Lord had given Moses.。
So the Lord was with him.。
What the Bible sees is his faith,。
his spiritual life, his relationship with God.。
When things are going right in his life, God walks with him.。
When he faces crisis, a Syrian crisis,。
or whatever crisis you are facing,。
he depend on the Lord, he trust in the Lord.。
That goes into the record of first and second kings.。
That's what God wants to see.。
That's what God want to focus on.。
You see what I'm saying?。
Your construction, your achievements,。
maybe they are important.。
You know, in Hezekiah's day,。
he had to devise some political strategy.。
He has to achieve something in order to defend the city.。
But at the end of the day, who save him?。
Yahweh save him, God save him.。
When crisis hits you, you can do all the preparation.。
This is part of our faithful stewardship, right?。
We have to be responsible.。
We have to go to a doctor.。
We have to find the best medical treatment.。
We have to find the best way to manage our lives.。
But the end of the day, do not forget。
as what happened to Hezekiah.。
He did not save himself.。
The water tunnel, as mighty as it was, did not save him.。
At the end of the day, he went to the temple。
and prayed for salvation.。
Prayed that God will help him.。
And then God help him.。
At the end of the day, the credit goes to the creator,。
his Lord and savior, no one else.。
You see what I mean?。
You can manage your life.。
You should.。
You may have a little bit achievement here and there,。
here and there, and maybe those are important.。
But when God sees your life, okay,。
I put one verse, summarize it.。
All your achievement are becoming footnotes.。
The main content of your life is your spiritual life.。
It's your faith.。
Whether you are depending on God in times of crisis,。
whether you do not forget God in times of blessing,。
it's your relationship with God.。
That is all that matters at the end of the day.。
That is God's perspective seeing you.。
Not how the culture sees you, not how the world sees you,。
not how you see yourself.。
It's how the Bible sees you.。
That brings to my third point, it's the call for stewardship.。
God has entrusted us with different things,。
resources, time, our money, all kinds of resources。
He has entrusted to us.。
That's why we have this word, theological word, stewardship.。
Comes from an old English word, steward.。
A steward is a manager of the house.。
To use a modern analogy, it's kind of like a bank manager.。
When you go to the bank, you deposit your money。
into your bank account.。
And the bank is entrusted with your money,。
and the bank, hopefully, the bank will faithfully。
and wisely manage your money.。
In times of need, you go to the bank。
and you withdraw some money, right?。
It really does not belong to the bank manager.。
The bank manager is managing someone else's resource,。
your resource.。
This is the same way our relationship with God and you.。
God entrusts something in you, in your life.。
And you're kind of like a bank manager.。
You're a steward.。
And the only thing required for you is faithfulness.。
Whether you're using all the resources as much as possible。
to serve God and to worship Him.。
That is biblical stewardship.。
And do not forget that.。
And that's what Hezekiah's story is all about.。
Why didn't the Bible, I actually want the Bible。
to talk more about the Hezekiah tunnel, right?。
I want a whole chapter talking about it.。
However, the biblical author did not care.。
And think about it.。
In the great scheme of things,。
God does not really care about your earthly achievement.。
What He cares is how you manage it to glorify Him.。
How you build your life on the word of God,。
in obedience to Him.。
That is what matters at the end of the day.。
You are God's steward and trusted with all sorts of things.。
How are you managing it?。
If God calls you to give an account today,。
how would you respond?。
Today.。
Will God seize your life saying,。
"Hey, you are being faithful.。
"You're a good and faithful servant.。
"And you're coming to my kingdom."。
Or maybe God will see you, you are wicked.。
You wasted all of my resources.。
You are not a faithful manager.。
That is biblical stewardship.。
I officiate a lot of funerals.。
I've served in the pastoral role。
for probably close to 30 years.。
And I have done so many, so many funerals.。
I remember one year, in my early year,。
I have to officiate 40 funerals in a year.。
40 funerals.。
Sometimes two funerals a week.。
Especially in winter time in Chicago.。
More people die in the depressing time.。
If you go to a funeral, if you go to a funeral,。
well, I mean, it's not a nice thing to say,。
but you should go to funerals more.。
At 10 funerals.。
You know why?。
Because there's a part in the funeral service,。
there's a part called eulogy.。
Eulogy means speak good, right?。
Speak good, it's a Greek word.。
Speak good of a person, right?。
Eulogy is, you know, reciting the history。
or remembering the history of someone,。
the deceased family member.。
All the eulogies I've heard。
have nothing to do with the deceased achievements.。
Nobody will come up to the podium in the funeral service。
and say, "Oh, he got a lot of money, you know what?。
"He got a lot of investment.。
"He's so great in terms of money.。
"Look at how many figures he has in the bank account."。
Nobody will say anything like that.。
Most of the eulogies will talk about。
the character of the person.。
How he has been a blessing to other people.。
The family, the community, the neighborhood, right?。
The church, his spiritual life.。
Most of the things mentioned in the eulogies。
are those things, the spiritual things, so to speak.。
Your relationship with God。
and your relationship with other people.。
Whether you are walking in the way of God。
or you are loving other people just as God loves them。
and you try your best to do it,。
those are the things going to the account.。
Those are the things going to God's record of your life.。
Don't lose that focus.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we wanna build our lives on your grace。
and thank you for calling us.。
Thank you for entrusting so many wonderful,。
great things in our lives.。
Yes, we do have some achievements.。
We exert great efforts in building our lives,。
but we pause right now。
and ask you to help us see our lives in your perspective,。
to evaluate all our doings, all our efforts。
in light of your eternal kingdom.。
And I pray, I pray that in times of blessing,。
we do not forget you.。
We thank you, we praise you.。
And in times of crisis, we don't forget you,。
knowing that you are our rock and you are our salvation.。
Thank you for your deliverance, thank you for your healing,。
thank you for your blessing that we enjoy.。
So in times of crisis, help us to focus on you。
because in the end of the days,。
it's our faith in you that matters.。
Pray that you will help us to focus on your kingdom.。
