- Thank you everyone.。
Mark.。
- Good morning to all of you.。
And we're gonna turn to the word of God today.。
And we're gonna start a new series.。
And this new series of messages。
is on new heaven and new earth.。
New heaven, new earth.。
If you know the Bible a little bit,。
you should know that the Bible has quite a bit。
to say about our future, the conclusion.。
Just imagine there's a song or there's a great musical piece.。
When you're playing along and listen along the song。
or the musical piece, it's going somewhere, right?。
It's going somewhere, it's going to some conclusion。
or some coda.。
This is what the Bible says.。
The Bible, the first two chapters is on the first creation.。
And the last two chapters is on the final,。
new heaven and new earth, the new creation.。
So the Bible, if you read from cover to cover,。
you should know there's a grand story.。
It going from the first creation,。
which is our current life and creation,。
and it's going somewhere in the final destination.。
It's like going on a journey.。
You're taking different turns。
and different detours in between.。
However, there was a final destination going toward.。
That is what the biblical story and biblical worldview.。
We need to understand this so that we know。
where our story fits into God's whole grand story.。
And in the middle of it, first creation,。
and then the last creation, the new creation,。
in between is what Jesus Christ did for us.。
Jesus came to human history and he died on the cross,。
sacrificed himself to redeem us。
so that we can be the people of God.。
And then he rose from the dead,。
and then he ascended to heaven。
and seated at the right hand of the Father。
and reigning as our heavenly King.。
In between is Christ.。
And we are going toward the final conclusion。
of this huge, grand story.。
So the Bible has a lot to say about new heaven。
and new earth, our future.。
The Bible has many different passages。
that has valuable teaching, very good teaching,。
and to remind us where are we going.。
I don't know if you've, sometimes we think about。
questions of ultimate purpose.。
You know, where am I going?。
Where am I going?。
And where will I go when I pass away?。
Or some of the friends that you may know。
have already passed away and left us.。
And where are they going?。
Does the Bible have anything to say about our future?。
Right?。
Couple, in the past three weeks,。
our staff and our church have been pretty busy,。
you know, trying to get some, prepare for funerals.。
And it's not a very nice thing to do.。
I mean, it's not pleasing to do,。
but, you know, we come alongside with the grieving families。
and try to help them out.。
And we have couple of funerals。
and for people who are dearest to us.。
And we were in the funerals and we kind of said goodbye。
or better, see you later to those we love,。
but they passed away before us.。
So, you know, I try to reflect on, you know,。
what the Bible has to say.。
And why does the Bible teach us, you know, those things?。
What happens when you die?。
And where is the whole creation?。
Where is the whole world heading to?。
So today we're gonna turn to the first passage,。
which is in the Gospel of John, the Gospel of John.。
Okay, let me read that first.。
This is what Jesus said to the disciples.。
He said, "Do not let your hearts be troubled.。
"Trust in God, trust also in me.。
"There is more than enough room in my Father's home.。
"If this were not so, would I have told you。
"that I am going to prepare a place for you?。
"When everything is ready, I'll come and get you。
"so that you will always be with me where I am.。
"And you know the way to where I'm going."。
Now, Thomas said, one of the disciples,。
"No, we don't know, Lord.。
"We have no idea where you are going.。
"So how can we know the way?"。
And Jesus replied, he told him,。
"I am the way, the truth, the life.。
"And no one can come to the Father except through me."。
Now, this short passage is actually part。
of the long passage, or long sermon,。
message Jesus told his disciples.。
And that long, long portion in the Gospel of John。
is from chapter 13 to 17.。
Sometimes we call this long portion。
as a farewell discourse, farewell discourse.。
It's Jesus' farewell discourse.。
He's trying to say farewell to his disciples.。
And you remember this was the last night。
that they had the last supper together.。
And after that, in 18.1, so after chapter 13 to 17,。
many different things put together.。
All the things Jesus has said to his disciples,。
his last night on earth, farewell discourse.。
And then after all of this, 13 to 17, 18.1,。
it says, "After saying these things,。
"Jesus crossed the Kidron Valley with his disciples。
"and entered into a garden.。
"And that garden, as we know, is Gethsemane.。
"And he was arrested, betrayed,。
"and he was taken to Jerusalem, and he died on the cross."。
So the little passage that I have just read from John 14。
was part of this entire farewell discourse.。
I think about it, when you have friends。
who are moving somewhere else,。
and you have a farewell dinner, right?。
What did they say, and what have they done,。
usually are very, very impressive to you,。
and impressive in your mind,。
and you probably would remember the moment。
or the environment that your friend。
has said farewell to you.。
Or before someone passed away,。
usually the moment that he or she passed away.。
There are times that the last moment of his or her life,。
he or she may have said something。
or may have done something。
that you will remember the rest of your life.。
Now, this is kind of the farewell discourse。
we quoted in the Gospel of John.。
And Jesus said many things to his disciple,。
and one of the things he said was to prepare a home。
for you and for me in heaven.。
So there are a couple of points。
I wanna point out from this passage.。
The first point is Jesus prepares our home in heaven.。
Let's take a look at 14, one, and one, two, three.。
Don't let your hearts be troubled.。
Why?。
Because Jesus is about to leave them, right?。
But Jesus said, "Don't let your hearts be troubled.。
"Trust in God, trust also in me.。
"There's more than enough room in my Father's home.。
"If there were not so, would I have told you。
"I'm going to prepare a place for you?。
"When everything is ready, I will come and get you。
"so that you will always be with me where I am."。
Now, in the time of Jesus, 2,000 years ago,。
in the first century, usually there were。
not many single houses.。
You know, in Chicago, you drive around。
in different streets and roads,。
you see a lot of different single houses, right?。
How many of you live in a single house?。
Single house, right?。
How many of you live in a townhouse。
where you share a wall with other people。
or condo, right, or dormitory, right?。
Not many single houses in Jesus' day.。
Most of the houses, most of the rooms。
are connected and attached to one another.。
What is happening is that usually,。
according to the custom, is that when the son。
is ready to get married, usually around 18 or 19 year old。
or even earlier, younger, when the son is ready。
to get married and the parents will arrange the marriage,。
in those days there were no, you know,。
just dating and all that stuff,。
and the parents do all the things for the children,。
especially for their son.。
So when the son is getting ready to get married,。
two families or two pairs of parents will come together。
and they talk about the terms or bride prices。
and all that stuff, and they sort out everything。
and they arrange the marriage for the young man。
and young woman.。
And the son is getting ready and he will go with the bride。
and he will go with his father to the village of the bride.。
You know, set out all the terms and sort out。
all the arrangements for marriage,。
and then the son will return back to his father's home。
and beside the father's house,。
he will build another small house.。
And usually it will take about a year.。
And then after that year, they engage for one year。
and then the son will go to the village。
and will receive the bride back home.。
So usually the father's house,。
it has attached to the son's house,。
and then generation after generation,。
all these houses are connected together.。
And then in the middle of it,。
probably is a courtyard or garden or something,。
and they share space in the middle.。
Now this is quite similar to some Asian culture, right?。
Where all the houses are connected, right?。
You got the grandfather, you got the father,。
and then you got the son and the grandson。
and the great-grandson.。
They are all living together。
and sharing one space in between, in the middle of it.。
Now this is the same thing for the Palestinian culture.。
When the son is getting married。
or getting ready to take the bride,。
he would take one year to prepare the house。
so that the bride will have a home.。
Now with that kind of background,。
you understand what Jesus is trying to say.。
He said, "I am leaving you now, temporary.。
Just for the time being, I will not be with you.。
However, I will come back and I will take you.。
I will take you and I will bring you to my father's home,。
to my father's house, where I have already prepared。
a room for you."。
With that said, no, this kind of farewell discourse,。
this kind of farewell goodbye speech。
is not a matter of abandonment.。
Jesus is not saying, "I'm abandoning you."。
Jesus is saying, "I am making you a promise,。
just like a groom promising a bride.。
I will come and take you.。
I will prepare a home, a heavenly home,。
where nothing can destroy, a perfect home for you."。
Last week, I was in Kansas City and I was in seminary。
and we have an intensive seminar.。
So I was in Kansas City in the Airbnb for four or five days。
and it was pretty nice, pretty nice.。
We booked an Airbnb and I shared the Airbnb。
with another pastor's friend.。
And however, everything is clean,。
but I still don't like it.。
I still don't like it.。
A few days on, I kind of miss my home, right?。
I kind of miss my own bed, my own mattress.。
Have you ever felt that way?。
You miss home, right?。
You're homesick, right?。
Yeah, of course you miss your family members,。
your sons and daughters and your wife and all that, right?。
This is the sense that within us,。
that we're yearning for home.。
We get homesick.。
Jesus is saying, "I am preparing a home for you."。
And that home is gonna be different.。
It's in heaven and it's perfect.。
And there's no pain and there's no tears.。
There's no suffering in that home, right?。
We feel homesick from time to time.。
And we know what that feeling is like.。
A couple of weeks ago, as you know,。
Maui, right, Maui, the island in Hawaii,。
was destroyed by wildfire, big fire,。
displacing thousands of people.。
And I was reading some news articles。
and some discussions online,。
and I ran into this opinion.。
And the headline says,。
Maui fire shows that Hawaii paradise was a dream.。
Have you ever been to Hawaii?。
Paradise, right?。
Paradise.。
You know, a lot of billionaires,。
they just put a house there and, you know,。
build a house there, right?。
It's kind of like monopoly, right?。
Very nice place, I'm gonna build a house there, right?。
The fire consumes everything.。
And the fire shows us this paradise on earth。
is simply a dream.。
Where is our true home?。
Jesus said, "Your true home is not here.。
"It's in heaven.。
"It's the home I prepare for you."。
He said to his disciples, he said to us,。
"No matter how comfortable we are in our own homes,。
"they are not permanent.。
"They're not eternal.。
"Your loved one will pass away and will destroy the home.。
"Your family may last for decades.。
"However, at the end of the day,。
"the final enemy comes knock on your door.。
"And his name is death.。
"And your home will not last."。
The home in Hawaii won't last.。
Our home won't last.。
The only home that is prepared in heaven will last.。
And that's where my yearning is.。
That's where our desire should be.。
So Jesus prepares a home for us.。
And also, second point, is Jesus is the way home.。
He not only prepared a home for us, but he is the way.。
He's not just pointing us to the right way to go home.。
He himself is the way home.。
Verses five.。
Thomas, one of the best Sunday school students, I guess,。
and he was curious.。
After hearing Jesus' farewell and goodbye speech,。
Thomas said, "No, we don't know, Lord Jesus.。
"We have no idea where you're going.。
"And how can we know the way?。
"How can we go after you?。
"How can we follow you?"。
Jesus told him, "I am the way, the truth, and the life.。
"No one can come to the Father.。
"No one can go home except through me."。
Here it says the way home, right?。
The journey or the route that will bring you home.。
And you need to understand,。
it's a little bit geography here.。
People living in Israel, especially in the ancient world,。
the land of Israel is the center of everything.。
It connects Africa, Asia, and Europe.。
Canaan, Israel, is the center,。
the heart of the entire world, the ancient world.。
And therefore, there were many different roads。
and highways would pass through the land of Israel.。
In fact, people living in Israel,。
when they imagine life, when they imagine daily living,。
they will talk in terms of walking.。
How you live is how you walk,。
because every day you are walking.。
Every day you are living right next to。
a huge highway intersections, right?。
Everyone has driven through downtown Chicago, right?。
There's so many different highways and exit, right?。
That is what land of Israel is like.。
You live in Israel, you are like living right next to。
the intersection of different highways.。
So when they talk about living, they talk about walking.。
How you walk, walk in a way that is worthy of the gospel.。
That means live in a way that will bring honor to Christ.。
Roads and walking,。
many, many different passages talking about that.。
Especially in the gospel of John,。
there were two places that talk about the way.。
The first one, what the first one is here,。
Jesus said, "I am the way."。
And then chapter one, in the very beginning。
of this gospel of John, Jesus or his cousin,。
John the Baptist, the pioneer,。
also talk about the way, chapter one, 23.。
John the Baptist, remember he is the pioneer。
of the Messiah, right?。
He's gonna introduce the Messiah to the world.。
And John the Baptist start baptizing people by the river.。
And John said, in the words of Prophet Isaiah,。
he said, "I am the voice shouting in the wilderness."。
To clear the way for the Lord's coming.。
So John the Baptist is kind of like。
rolling out the red carpet。
for this honorable guest to come in.。
And he is Jesus Christ, the Messiah.。
John the Baptist is trying to clear the way。
in the wilderness so that the Lord Jesus can come.。
He's the hero of the gospel, the kingdom.。
Finally, the king is coming,。
he roll out the red carpet and this is him.。
Now, he's quoting from the book of Isaiah.。
And this has happened, the book of Isaiah。
talks so much about the way, the way for the Lord,。
the road for the Lord.。
There are many different passages in Isaiah,。
especially the second half of Isaiah,。
chapter 40 and the following,。
talks so much about the way of the Lord,。
the way of the Messiah.。
And one of the verses is 51, nine, Isaiah chapter 51,。
talk about wake up, wake up.。
It's a prayer, a prayer that pray to the true God,。
the Lord, the God of Israel, clothe yourself with strength.。
They're trying to wake up, wake God up.。
God, wake up, this is the time for your salvation.。
And rouse yourself in the days of old.。
The old days was the first Exodus,。
when the people came out of Egypt,。
God defeated the oppressor and then saved his people.。
And the Israelites became his people.。
That's when, that is the days of old.。
The one who dry up the sea, you see that?。
The first Exodus, they crossed the Red Sea on dry ground,。
making a way of escape, a way through the depths of the sea。
so that your people can cross over.。
Again, this is a prayer,。
prayer that God will redeem his people,。
just like in the days of old.。
In the days of old, the first Exodus,。
God save his people and bring them。
and prepare the way for them, they can cross the sea.。
And now this is a time, God, you need to do it again.。
And John the Baptist is quoting from the book of Isaiah。
and say, I'm gonna introduce you to the salvation。
that Jesus the Messiah gonna bring to us.。
And it's gonna like the days of old.。
And finally, people will return.。
Those who have been ransomed by the Lord will return.。
And they will enter the holy city of Jerusalem。
singing with everlasting joy.。
There is a way home.。
And Jesus said, amazingly, he said, I am the way.。
I'm not pointing you the right way.。
I myself is the way.。
And Jesus said, he is the way, the only way we can go home.。
The teaching in the Bible concerning the future,。
concerning the new heaven and new earth,。
is for us so that we know where we're going.。
Imagine you're on the journey.。
If you don't know your destination,。
if you don't know where you're going,。
you're wasting your time, right?。
The more you know about your destination,。
the more you understand where you're going,。
will determine how you make choices today.。
That is the biblical teaching of the final things.。
Trying to reveal to us what our final destination is。
so that in the detour and the turns in our lives,。
we know we won't get lost.。
I remember some years ago, I was driving a Mini Cooper.。
I really like driving Mini Cooper.。
I sold it because of mechanical problems and all that stuff.。
So I had a Mini Cooper for about seven years.。
I really enjoyed it.。
Have you driven a Mini Cooper before?。
No? You should try it.。
It's like driving go-kart.。
It's like driving go-kart all the time.。
So I really enjoy it.。
So I remember one day,。
well, right after we bought the Mini Cooper,。
and we have to bring it back to the dealer,。
to the shop for oil change or something like that.。
And then it took about two days,。
the mechanic says,。
"It will take about two days for us to fix it。
"and get it ready for you."。
And then here's the loaner.。
The loaner.。
And I got a loaner from the car dealer.。
It's another Mini Cooper.。
No, it's brand new Mini Cooper with turbo.。
So as I said, I really like driving Mini Cooper.。
It's like you and the car, there's no distance.。
I am the Mini Cooper, right?。
You know, if you haven't,。
if you've never driven a Mini Cooper, you should try it.。
You know, it's really fun.。
So I drove that car, I was really excited.。
I got this loaner, I got this turbo, two-seaters,。
brand new Mini Cooper, and I drove home.。
And then I talked to my wife and said,。
"Hey, I got a new Mini Cooper for two days.。
"And let's go have some fun."。
So I drag her to the Mini Cooper and we drove off, right?。
I drove off, right?。
On the highway.。
So it's kind of like, it's like driving a bullet.。
So much fun.。
And then after three minutes, she asked me,。
"Where are we going?。
"Where's the destination?"。
I said, "I don't know."。
And then I thought to myself,。
"This is wasting gas."。
(audience laughing)。
"Wasting money, actually."。
So then we drove back home.。
Now, when you don't know where your destination is,。
it's no longer fun, right?。
Because your destination determines your decisions,。
determines the direction of your journey.。
The Bible reveals to us our final home.。
And we are all in Christ and heading that home.。
No matter how comfortable we are here,。
this is not our final resting place.。
Our final home is in heaven,。
in the new heaven and new earth.。
With that said, it should apply to us。
how we're gonna make choices,。
how we're going to make different arrangement in our lives,。
how we prioritize all these different choices in our lives.。
Going to a final home.。
I remember one day, many years ago,。
when I was early 30s,。
that's some years ago, not too many.。
(laughs)。
Remember, well, I told you before,。
in my previous church where I was serving,。
we had a lot of funerals every year.。
I remember one year I officiate 40 funerals, one year.。
Almost like every single week, sometimes two times a week.。
I was kind of tired。
because I have to do funerals all the time.。
And not only people from my church,。
but there were many different people I needed to help out。
and to serve, they live in the neighborhood.。
They live in the community。
and they want the pastor to help them out.。
So there was one year I just officiated。
so many different funerals.。
And you're just kind of numb at times.。
But I remember one day, this family walked into my office。
and they said, "Pastor, can you help us。
"to prepare this funeral and officiate this funeral?"。
I said, "Of course, of course, at your service."。
And then usually in the arrangement of funerals,。
I will ask the family to prepare eulogy.。
Do you know what eulogy is?。
It's a life story, right?。
A life story of the deceased.。
So I used to ask the family members,。
"Can you prepare the eulogy?"。
And you write it out and then I'll double check it。
and then we're good to go.。
So they did write down the eulogy for the deceased.。
And they hand it to me the next day.。
And I kind of check it, spell check and all that.。
And this struck me that I know the life story。
of this person I'm going to officiate a funeral for.。
He was born the same year as I was.。
Same birth year.。
I was in my early 30s.。
And it really impacted me because it was the moment。
for me to ask the ultimate question.。
What am I doing here, right?。
What am I doing?。
If I die today, where am I going?。
Am I sure where I'm going?。
Remember the funeral, the deceased was early 30s,。
same year, and read his life story。
and officiated the funeral.。
In that funeral, it was so sad。
because there were only two family members show up.。
Only a handful of people in the funeral.。
No one mourned for him, no one really cared.。
Even his daughter is not there.。
So I still remember that funeral happened。
in the harsh winter of Chicago.。
So we did the funeral and then we went out to the cemetery。
to perform the burial service.。
And it was a big snowstorm.。
And it was just crazy.。
You know how crazy the harsh winter in Chicago, right?。
It was snowing so much and then the workers, of course,。
stick the ground six feet below。
and prepared the place for his final burial.。
And then the workers had to lower the casket into the vault.。
And it was so windy and so much snow.。
And there was so much trouble trying to fit the casket。
into the vault, right?。
Even I and the funeral director have to help out.。
So we grab some two by four and try to make sure。
the casket will fit so they can close the lid.。
It was tough.。
It was so, so sad.。
And the grief of the family.。
I think the most important thing for me。
is that what am I doing here, right?。
Am I using my resources faithfully?。
Am I being faithful to the call of God?。
What is my vocation?。
What is God calling me to do?。
And with my limited time on earth,。
what am I doing with the resources he has given me,。
the gifts that he has granted to me?。
What am I doing with all this stuff, right?。
And someday I will be home.。
Someday I will see him again.。
I will see Jesus, our Lord again.。
And how can I answer?。
How can I reply to him?。
What have you done with your life?。
As I told you two weeks ago,。
we officiate a funeral for Leah, my dearest friend.。
I've known Leah for years, since she was in college.。
And it was just terrible suffering。
that she has gone through in the past three, four years.。
She was discovered with, diagnosed with。
a fairly aggressive form of brain tumor.。
And the last three and three plus years,。
she has been battling with cancer,。
you know, on and off, on and off.。
And it's just, can't imagine what she has been going through.。
But if you listen to her story,。
she actually prayed that, "God, can you use my suffering?。
"Can you use my suffering to tell your story,。
"to testify the goodness of God,。
"even in the midst of trouble?"。
Now that kind of prayer, I tell you,。
honestly, I cannot make that prayer, right?。
From where she get the strength, right?。
From where she get the strength to pray like that, right?。
It has to be a hope beyond death.。
Has to be the reality of the final home.。
She knows where she's going.。
And she has that hope anchor in her life.。
And she could pray like that,。
even in the midst of most difficult trouble.。
How can I use my time to witness to God?。
The future reality.。
A couple of weeks ago, it was on Monday, yeah.。
So I got a call that, you know,。
Leah in her final moment.。
So I got a call and I rushed to her home.。
And she passed away peacefully at home.。
And there were different brothers and sisters were there.。
We were with the parents,。
and actually the parents were here today, this morning,。
worshiping with us.。
Very difficult time for them.。
And that Monday morning when she passed away, we were there.。
And her body was there.。
And we wait for hours for the funeral workers。
to pick up the body.。
So very, very difficult.。
But we take comfort, the fact that she's now home.。
In her final home.。
And that's the home we are all heading to.。
And during those few hours we were waiting。
for the workers to pick up the body,。
one of the brothers who has been in contact。
with the funeral home, he was waiting outside.。
And he took this picture.。
It's actually the background of the PowerPoint.。
It's a beautiful picture.。
I'm sure the heavenly home is so much more beautiful。
than this.。
That's what Jesus is talking about.。
I prepare a home for you.。
And that's where your hope is.。
What we live according to this hope.。
We keep in mind we are heading there.。
And we are on our way.。
Every moment in this life counts.。
We are kept accountable before God.。
Use our time, use your resources, use your gifts and talents。
to serve God.。
Because someday we're gonna give an account.。
Someday we're gonna be home.。
Let's all pray.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we give you thanks because you prepare a home for us.。
That our Lord Jesus not only died for us on the cross,。
only rose from the dead.。
He triumphed over death.。
And he rose from the dead and give us this hope,。
this eternal hope.。
And we hear his promises today.。
That our Lord Jesus, you have prepared a home for us。
in heaven.。
And we're all heading there.。
And Father, may our desires and our direction。
are anchored toward that hope.。
And I pray that we'll build our lives。
according to this final destination we are heading to.。
And I pray that you will help us to live in wisdom,。
to use our resources faithfully,。
so that in our earthly period of time,。
we'll bring you honor.。
Use our lives to serve you.。
Good time or bad times, may you reign in us.。
In Christ, we pray.。
(gentle music)。
(upbeat music)。
