- Hey guys, we will turn to the book of Genesis chapter 37.。
If you have your Bible,。
turn with me to the book of Genesis chapter 37.。
And today we are going to begin a new topic.。
This topic is called the providence of God.。
So we're gonna read the story of Joseph.。
Now, anyone has any idea what the word providence means?。
What does it mean?。
It's actually two words together, right?。
Combined compound word, right?。
Meaning pro, ahead or beforehand,。
and then seeing, where we get vision, right?。
That is the providence of God.。
And this is a precious teaching found in the Bible.。
At times we might think or mistaken providence as fate。
or some sort of blind destiny.。
Everything is set, past, present and future,。
and everything is predetermined in your life, in our life.。
Everything is pre-decided mechanically.。
So we're just going through our journey of life。
and every day is already preset.。
Sometimes we have this wrong idea,。
but in the Bible, providence refers not。
the blind mechanism of the universe or in your life.。
Providence means God is caring and seeing ahead of time。
in whatsoever comes to pass, whatsoever.。
The people that you meet, the coffee that you had today,。
driving here, right?。
Some more people got in your way, right?。
You probably yell at some people.。
You come here and join the worship.。
Everything whatsoever comes to pass.。
That is the biblical definition of providence.。
It's not a mechanical, you know,。
everything decided and predetermined kind of fate。
that we're going through our lives,。
but God is seeing ahead of time and caring for you.。
So that's what it means, providence.。
And there are a lot of different Bible verses。
that has to do with providence.。
For example, Psalm 139, one of the favorite Psalms, right?。
"Oh Lord, you have examined my heart。
"and know everything about me."。
Everything, see the key word here?。
Everything.。
You know, when I sit down or stand up,。
when you sit down, take a break,。
when you're standing up, doing something, working,。
Lord, you know my thoughts, even I'm far, far away, right?。
When you're traveling, we are not home.。
Lord, you see me when I travel, when I rest at home.。
That's NLT, by the way.。
And you know everything I do.。
That is providence, isn't it?。
Right?。
Many scriptures teach the providence of God。
or the doctrine of divine providence,。
that your life is under the beforehand seeing of God,。
beforehand caring of God.。
Whether you believe it or not, right?。
Now there are also different Bible verses。
we're not going to dig into them,。
but this is something unique about the biblical culture。
or the Hebrew culture.。
Even today, when you ask a rabbi a question,。
usually you don't get a direct answer.。
The rabbi probably will respond, "Let me tell you a story."。
That's interesting, right?。
It's kind of different from our Western。
or urban kind of linear, you know,。
we all want to outline things。
and bullet points and all that, right?。
We're more abstract in our thinking,。
but in the Hebrew culture or Bible culture,。
they will tell you a story, right?。
Remember the prophet Nathan,。
when he was about to confront David。
for the great sin that he committed,。
what did Nathan do?。
(audience murmurs)。
He told him a story, told him a parable, right?。
And Jesus did a lot of parables, illustrations, right?。
Daily life illustrations。
in order to flesh out some of the truth, right?。
So today we're going to read story, all right?。
Big chunk of it, right?。
Biblical story of Joseph.。
You ready?。
Let me tell you a story, all right?。
Chapter 37, verse two.。
This is the account of Jacob and his family.。
When Joseph was 17 year old,。
he often tended his father's flock.。
He worked for his half brothers,。
the sons of the father's wives, Belhar and Silpah.。
But Joseph reported to his father。
some of the bad things his brothers were doing.。
Jacob loved Joseph more than any of his other children。
because Joseph had been born to him in his old age.。
So one day, Jacob had a special gift made for Joseph,。
a beautiful many color robe.。
But his brothers hated Joseph。
because their father loved him more than the rest of them.。
They couldn't say a kind word to him.。
This is interesting.。
The Hebrew here is they cannot say shalom to him.。
So they can't say good morning or hi to him.。
Can't say a kind word to him, can't say shalom to him.。
And then the following context reports。
about the two dreams that Joseph had.。
And we're not going to go into it,。
but the main idea is that someday,。
the dreams are foretelling the future, right?。
Ahead of time, that Joseph will be greater。
than all his family members, his father, his mother,。
and all the brothers.。
And that's why the brothers hated him, right?。
Imagine your little brother telling you,。
"Someday you're gonna worship me."。
No way, right?。
Your little brother or your younger sibling。
saying to you, "Someday I'm going to have。
"all your investment, all your bank accounts."。
No way, right?。
That's why the brothers hated him.。
And then verse 14.。
Now what happened here is Jacob said to Joseph,。
"Go and see how your brothers。
"and the flocks are getting along.。
"Then come back and bring me a report."。
So Jacob sent him on his way,。
and Joseph traveled to Shechem。
from their home in the Valley of Hebron.。
When he arrived there, a man from the area noticed him。
wandering around in the field or countryside.。
"What are you looking for?" he asked.。
"I'm looking for my brothers," Joseph replied.。
"Do you know where they are pasturing their sheep?"。
"Yes," the man told him.。
"They have moved on from here,。
"but I heard them saying, 'Let's go to Dothan.'"。
So Joseph followed his brothers to Dothan。
and found them there.。
Verse 18.。
When Joseph's brothers saw him coming,。
they recognized him in the distance.。
As he approached, they made plans to kill him.。
"Here comes the dreamer," they said.。
"Come on, let's kill him。
"and throw him into one of the cisterns.。
"We can tell our father a wild animal has eaten him.。
"Then we will see what becomes of his dreams."。
Right?。
21.。
But when Reuben pulled up the scheme,。
he came to Joseph's rescue.。
"Let's not kill him," he said.。
"Why should we shed any blood?。
"Let's just throw him into an empty cistern。
"here in the wilderness.。
"Then he'll die without our laying a hand on him."。
Reuben was secretly planning to rescue Joseph,。
and return him to his father.。
So when Joseph arrived,。
his brothers ripped off the beautiful robe he was wearing.。
Then they grabbed him and threw him into the cistern.。
And the pit was empty, and there was no water in it.。
Then, just as they were sitting down to eat,。
how can you eat with your little brother in the cistern?。
Crying out.。
They're having fast food here.。
They look up and saw a caravan of camels in the distance。
coming toward them.。
It's a group of Ishmaelite traders。
taking a load of gum, balm, aromatic resin。
from Gilead down to Egypt.。
Judah said to his brothers,。
"What will we gain by killing our brother?。
"We have to cover up the crime.。
"Instead of hurting him,。
"let's sell him to those Ishmaelite traders.。
"After all, he is our brother,。
"our own flesh and our own blood."。
His brothers agreed.。
So when the Ishmaelites, who were Midianite traders,。
came by, Joseph's brothers pulled him out of the pit。
and sold him to them for 20 pieces of silver,。
and the traders took him down to Egypt.。
Now, sometime later,。
Reuben returned to get Joseph out of the pit.。
When he discovered that Joseph was missing,。
he torn his clothes in grief,。
and he went back to his brother and lamented,。
"The boy is gone.。
"What will I do now?"。
Then the brothers killed a young goat。
and dipped Joseph's robe in his blood.。
They sent the beautiful robe to their father。
with this message, "Look at what we found.。
"Doesn't this robe belong to your son?"。
And then we skip to 36.。
Meanwhile, the Midianite traders arrived down in Egypt,。
where they sold Joseph to Polypher,。
an officer of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt.。
Polypher was captain of the palace guard.。
Now, this is a long story, right?。
Whole chapter 37, pretty much we read every single verse.。
It clearly tells us the older brothers of Joseph。
were ill-intent.。
They wanted to kill Joseph.。
Remember the pit, the cistern?。
What happened to it?。
Was there any water?。
No, there was no water, right?。
According to the Palestinian climate,。
this should be the end of summer.。
No water at all.。
They wanted to kill him,。
but they changed their mind and agreed with Reuben.。
And Reuben, all of a sudden, he intervened and said,。
"Hey, let's put this boy into the pit," right?。
Where there's no water.。
And he actually intended to come back and to rescue Joseph.。
However, as the story goes, some traders,。
some international traders, Ishmaelites or Midianites,。
they came by and they decided,。
according to Judah's suggestion,。
sell Joseph to the trader and bring him down to Egypt.。
As you know, the story of Joseph runs very, very long,。
right, 37, chapter 37 to all the way to the end,。
chapter 50, end of the book of Genesis.。
And we all know the end, right?。
Well, let me spoil it, yeah.。
Chapter 50, verse 20, finally,。
even the brothers and Jacob,。
the whole family came down from Canaan to Egypt。
because of famine, right?。
And just eventually, Joseph rose from the pit。
to being the second in command in the nation of Egypt.。
And he was kind of a savior.。
He saved his whole family.。
And eventually, all the brothers reconciled.。
And Joseph said to his brother, "That is the end,。
"almost the end of the story," chapter 50, 20.。
"You guys intended to harm me,。
"but God intended it all for good.。
"He brought me to this position。
"so that I could save the lives of many people."。
That's just a long story.。
We will go through it, you know, chapter by chapter.。
But this is how the Bible works.。
Tell your story, a very complicated, very detailed story。
so you can chill upon it.。
You can return the story again and again。
and think about the topic here, the theme here,。
the providence of God in your life.。
Providence of God in your life.。
Somehow God is seeing or caring for you way ahead of time。
before you can see how your life unfolds.。
God sees ahead of time.。
So there are actually two points I want to bring out.。
First, if you read the story, just read chapter 37,。
what I want to point out is everyone in the story。
is free to make choices, right?。
Jacob, the father, he probably worries about, you know,。
the flock and the brothers,。
and send his beloved son, Joseph, to check on them, right?。
Nobody forced Jacob to make any choice.。
He was a free agent.。
He chose to send Joseph, right?。
Completely free.。
So he made that choice.。
And then the brothers were tending the flocks in Shechem.。
Shechem, by the way, is in the north.。
So he started, Joseph started in the south, Hebron,。
all the way up, probably walk three, two days,。
three or four days, to reach up north in Shechem.。
And as I said, it was probably late summer。
because the pit was dry.。
And then the brothers made their own choice as free agents.。
They moved from Shechem to another place called Dothan,。
which is further up north.。
Probably they were trying to find water for the sheep.。
But in any how, they were free to do so, right?。
Nobody forced them.。
They made their own choices.。
And then Joseph, the beloved son,。
he obeys his father and goes to Shechem.。
And they're kind of wandering, he got lost.。
And then finally he reached the brothers at Dothan, right?。
Joseph made free choices as well.。
And then the brothers were held fully accountable。
for victimizing Joseph.。
The story lays blame on brothers,。
not Jacob, the father, not Joseph, the beloved son, right?。
No matter how Joseph is lovely or not,。
he's getting along with the brothers or not,。
or he's just a very wicked person or not, right?。
Good or bad.。
The story lays blame only on the elder brothers, right?。
So everyone in the story is free to make choices.。
However, some things happen in the story。
out of expectation.。
Nobody would have thought how the story unfolds.。
For example, Joseph goes to Shechem,。
try to find his brothers, right?。
He's lost.。
Probably he has wasted some time, or a day or so,。
wandering in the wilderness, in the field.。
And then surprisingly, a dude passes by.。
And this dude, no name, right?。
Unnamed character in the story.。
Just happened he heard what the brother said.。
Remember what the brother says?。
Let's go out of Shechem and go to Doton, right?。
And then just, he heard about it.。
He heard about it, and then surprisingly,。
he found Joseph getting lost, right?。
This young boy getting lost in the field.。
And then surprisingly, he goes to Joseph and ask,。
"Hey, what are you doing?。
"What are you looking for?"。
Right?。
And then Joseph reply, "I'm looking for his brothers."。
"Oh, I heard about your brothers."。
You know, they just went from Shechem here。
to someplace else, to Doton.。
So some things happen in the story。
out of expectation for anyone, anyone in the story.。
Secondly, the brothers.。
Now I talk about Joseph, right?。
Wandering, wasting some time.。
And then the brothers, the brothers meant to kill Joseph.。
No question about it, right?。
But surprisingly, Reuben, the firstborn, intervenes.。
He intervenes, "Don't kill him, don't commit murder."。
And Joseph end up in the pit, right?。
Now, why did Reuben think so?。
I don't know, I don't know.。
Probably just, you know, spirit of the moment, right?。
Let's not kill him, let's not kill our brother.。
Throw him in the pit, right?。
So the brothers, to them, something surprising happened.。
Three, the cistern, the pit was dry, the end of summer.。
If Joseph was left in the pit for too long,。
he would have died, right?。
Even he asked for help, nobody would have heard him。
because he would be too weak, right?。
The cistern was dry.。
Nobody planned that, right?。
But something out of expectation happened.。
And then finally, some of the merchants came by, right?。
Who were those guys, right?。
Medianites or Ishmaelites or whatever, right?。
Some international traders came by and said,。
didn't really talk to the brothers,。
but the brothers were having the, you know, fast food lunch.。
And they saw these guys going down to Egypt.。
And out of expectation, Judah did not plan this.。
And he had an idea, let's sell our brothers, Joseph,。
to the traders, and the traders brought him down to Egypt.。
So unexpectedly, Joseph did not die in the pit.。
Eventually sold to Egypt.。
Now, the Hebrew Bible has a special word in the story。
to catch our attention.。
And usually this word is translated,。
behold or look, right?。
Some of the English translations, to my surprise,。
misses that.。
And it's a word called hinei.。
Hinei in the Hebrew word means。
trying to catch your attention, right?。
And they look, behold.。
And in this story, in chapter 37,。
hinei happens again and again.。
Let me give you some example, 15, verse 15.。
A stranger, a guy, found Joseph and hinei.。
He was wandering, he got lost in the field.。
And the stranger asked him,。
and there was some, you know,。
correspondences between them.。
Verse 19, the brothers said to one another, hinei.。
Actually, the brothers did not expect。
Joseph would show up, right?。
'Cause Joseph is the beloved son.。
He didn't have to work, right?。
He's always on the lazy boy playing games, right?。
He's beloved by the old father, right?。
Didn't expect Joseph would come and see how they're doing.。
Hinei, he comes the dreamer.。
And then they try to scheme to kill him.。
25, the brothers sat down to eat their meal.。
As they raised their eyes, hinei.。
Raised their eyes and looked.。
Hinei, look, behold, a caravan of Ishmaelites,。
the traders, coming from Gilead.。
Gilead is up north, and then they're going down to Egypt.。
Now, these guys, these traders,。
were not slave traders, right?。
With all of the commodities they are trying。
to bring to Egypt, they have no interest。
in slavery.。
Judah got the idea and sold Joseph to those traders.。
And then Reuben came back in 29.。
Now Reuben returned to the cistern,。
and hinei, look, surprisingly,。
Joseph was not in it, so he torn his clothes.。
Surprise, surprise, surprise, surprise.。
At least there are four times here,。
hinei, the worst chosen.。
So in the entire chapter, 37,。
especially the latter half,。
talking about the selling of Joseph。
or whatever he encounters,。
you get the idea that everything somehow is orchestrated.。
Everything is working together。
down to the finest detail.。
Joseph got lost in the field.。
He wasted a day or two,。
and that's why he did not die in the pit.。
And he was sold to Egypt for a greater purpose.。
Providence, by means of a beautiful story,。
it tells you that providence includes getting lost.。
Have you ever got lost?。
Providence includes getting lost and wasting time,。
wasting time.。
Have you ever, you know, stand in line in DMV?。
That's like the most frustrating hell on earth, right?。
Providence includes wasting time.。
Now, how many of you are good chess players?。
How many of you are good chess players?。
I'm very bad.。
I'm very bad.。
I just don't know how it works, right?。
When I was younger, I hate playing chess with my dad。
because he's much better.。
He's a good chess player.。
And I hate playing with him because I,。
well, you know, playing with my dad,。
a better chess player, and I'm so bad,。
I am absolutely free to make any move.。
But my opponent often puts me into some sort of situations,。
some sort of positions that I have to respond。
with another move, right?。
Some sort of moves.。
But I find that quickly, my moves lead to further。
his strategy to have him win.。
And he, of course, he wins at the end.。
Or have you ever played chess with computer?。
AI, can you beat it?。
Probably not, right?。
Compared to God, we are all like bad chess players.。
We're really, really bad.。
Because we can only see a step or two ahead.。
But God see the whole thing.。
God see the whole game.。
But there's a difference.。
No, me and God, you and God, in his providence,。
there was a difference.。
Because God's moves in your life。
are not mechanically programmed.。
He's relating to you, interacting with you all the time.。
And another difference is God is not in your life。
in order to defeat you.。
That is not the intent of our Karen father.。
Our Karen father is driven by his compassion for us.。
His loving plan for you and for the world, right?。
Don't you find this doctrine, providence,。
comforting, encouraging, especially in times of difficulty?。
That you are not under the control of any blind faith.。
You're not under control of any blind destiny。
that is predetermined.。
Yes, there are things out of your control.。
There are things that you pray for,。
you hope for, didn't happen.。
But your life, the Bible says,。
is not under some sort of blind faith.。
The school that you're going to,。
or the school that you apply and rejected you, right?。
The girl you try to approach, rejected you.。
I had that a lot when I was younger.。
The people that you try to relate to,。
give you a cold shoulder, or whatever you encounter.。
Don't you find it comforting。
if you know the biblical teaching of providence?。
Right?。
Now in the history of the church in the last 2000 years,。
many people, theologians,。
have tried to understand this mysterious,。
mysterious but comforting doctrine.。
And they try to take through different places of the Bible。
and try to summarize it, right?。
And one of the great summaries of providence。
is found in something called。
Westminster Confession of Faith.。
Now, what is Confession of Faith?。
It's actually a kind of a systematic summary。
of biblical teaching.。
And this document is a very comprehensive document。
about all things related to the teaching of the Bible.。
And it was drafted in the 17th century。
in the beautiful Westminster Abbey in London.。
In chapter five, article one,。
here is what it says about providence.。
Now I want you to pay attention to some of the words, okay?。
Let me read that.。
Five one, Westminster Confession of Faith.。
God, who created everything, also upholds everything.。
He directs, regulates, governs every creature,。
action, and thing.。
From the greatest to the least.。
By his completely wise and holy providence,。
he does so in accordance with his infallible foreknowledge。
and the voluntary, unchangeable purpose of his own will.。
All to the praise of the glory of his wisdom,。
power, justice, goodness, and mercy.。
God orchestrates from the greatest。
to the least.。
Everything is under his sight.。
Nothing is out of his vision, his providence.。
Here, this summary is only one paragraph。
out of the many paragraphs that talks about God。
and his providence in this document.。
Here it says, God, the creator,。
transcends the creation.。
He's beyond us.。
But notice this, transcendence means his works。
are mysterious at times, right?。
Because he's beyond us.。
He's outside time and space.。
This is our God.。
This is the God of the Bible.。
He created us all.。
He orchestrates everything in our journey.。
Because he's beyond us, sometimes his works are mysterious.。
But not irrational, because transcendence。
does not mean his absence, right?。
His beyond us does not mean God is absent.。
He's here.。
He's here in your life.。
And secondly, from this paragraph,。
we notice, or chapter 37 of Book of Genesis,。
God never condones evil and sin.。
We are all accountable, just as the older brothers of Joseph,。
accountable to God.。
But God can use the good deeds of the people。
to accomplish his will.。
He, God, God can use the evil actions of the people。
to accomplish his holy plan.。
God can use both.。
Use our good works and the evil plans and actions of others.。
Number three, God orchestrates, sometimes directly。
and often indirectly, all the things。
from the greatest to the least in our life.。
But he's not inactive.。
He is not silent.。
He is always there.。
And this paragraph says there's a purpose to it.。
The purpose is for the praise and worship of God.。
If we really understand and really sink in。
this teaching of providence, we should find comfort。
and peace, even in times of difficulties and uncertainty.。
Yes, we all have our moments that we doubt。
what is God doing and where am I heading, right?。
Especially when we think of our future, right?。
But the teaching of providence encourages us,。
even invites us to join the plan of God,。
to participate in the advancement of God's plan,。
preaching the gospel, building up the church,。
serving in obedience, working with God,。
cooperating with God.。
He's orchestrating everything in my life,。
and that's why I can surrender my will to him.。
I can pray to God, God use me, right?。
Guide me, help me follow you, help me obey you, right?。
All the things, what does it say?。
From the greatest to the least,。
by his completely wise and holy providence.。
We're gonna end today with our response song,。
and I wanna invite the worship team to come up here.。
Great is our God, and because he's so great,。
that's why we bow down and fall down before him to worship.。
That's why we can lay our lives before him,。
because he is greatest, and he is holy and good.。
We can trust in him.。
No matter life throw at you, you can still trust.。
Let's worship God, and then we'll close in prayer.。
♪ Come let us praise him ♪。
♪ Let us kneel at the throne of our God ♪。
♪ Through his son our salvation was bought ♪。
♪ With mercy and grace ♪。
♪ Come let us bow down ♪。
♪ In his hands are the depths of the earth ♪。
♪ With one voice we proclaim his great worth ♪。
♪ Lord our God ♪。
♪ And we will seek him ♪。
♪ Our rock of salvation ♪。
♪ Morning by morning ♪。
♪ With thanksgiving we come ♪。
♪ And we will bow down ♪。
♪ With creation we cry out ♪。
♪ In daylight and darkness ♪。
♪ We sing to the Lord ♪。
♪ Great is our God ♪。
♪ Great is our God ♪。
♪ Great is our God ♪。
Let us pray.。
Father, once again, we give you thanks。
because everything in our life,。
from the greatest to the least,。
is under your careful watch.。
Thank you for being our Lord and our Savior.。
Thank you for this comforting truth。
that we can lay our lives before you.。
God use us, send us.。
Send us to where you want us to be,。
to be your instrument.。
And in times of difficulties and uncertainties,。
we pray that we will trust in you.。
Help us to know that you are our greatest God。
and in your providence,。
your will will be done in Christ's name.。
God bless you.。
- Peace Church, and I hope that you can join。
our Bible study on the Gospel of Mark later.。
And let's get together and study the word of God。
and get to know God better, all right?。
God bless you.。
(gentle music)。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
