Let's welcome him.。
(audience applauding)。
- Hello, hi everybody.。
Thank you, Pastor Mark, for praying,。
and thank you, James, for leading worship.。
Fun fact, I texted James this morning。
to see what he was wearing。
so that we could make sure we were matching.。
(laughing)。
That's not true, we just have a similar fashion sense.。
(laughing)。
Thank you both.。
So today, I wanna talk about the Book of Jonah,。
but before we do that, I wanna tell you guys a story.。
This is a story that I haven't really told before.。
It's been something that happened。
and was decently significant in my life for a while,。
but I didn't really see it as something。
that was timely or necessary at the time.。
But I think the themes of this story fit really well。
with the themes of the Book of Jonah,。
so I'm bringing it out today.。
I want you to think back to about a year and a half ago.。
This would be right as Chicago is getting out。
of our state-mandated lockdown, right?。
We're all kind of trying to figure out。
how to do this post-pandemic world,。
even though it was still mostly in the pandemic,。
and we're trying to figure out how to continue to function。
even though this virus is spreading.。
And we've been locked up for two and a half months.。
Things are kind of tense, right?。
And then, right as quarantines are lifting,。
the killing of George Floyd is basically televised。
and thrown everywhere online, and protests erupt.。
Peaceful marches are everywhere over our city.。
It was kind of a hectic time.。
Not only were we living through a massive worldwide pandemic。
like once in every hundred years,。
but we're also experiencing crazy amounts of social unrest。
and calls for new things to happen。
to bring justice about in our country.。
It was a bit of a crazy time.。
Now, for those of you who don't know,。
I am a photographer, kind of.。
I get to do part of that for my job,。
and I also get to do it on the side.。
So I love taking photos of cool places in Chicago.。
I love taking photos of cool places when I travel,。
and I also really enjoy taking photos of worldwide events.。
So I loved it when the Cubs won the World Series。
because I got to go, and I got to take photos。
of entire crowds at Wrigleyville。
just celebrating and getting excited.。
I loved it when the pandemic happened。
because I got to take really stark photos of empty shelves,。
no toilet paper in sight.。
It was great.。
It's like a photographer's dream。
to live through these kinds of world-changing events, right?。
So when all these protests started happening,。
when these marches began happening,。
I'm like, "I gotta be there.。
"I'm a photographer.。
"I can't one day teach my kid how to use a camera。
"and then not have photos。
"of some of the most significant historical events。
"that I've lived through."。
So I went.。
I went to different protests。
that were happening around the city.。
I documented it, and I took photos,。
and I partook in those.。
I even accidentally came across。
some of the looting that was happening,。
and I documented that a little bit,。
although a little more scared.。
And then what ended up happening next。
was quite possibly, quite possibly。
the worst experience I've ever had。
trying to photograph anything。
because in addition to protests that were peaceful。
and marches put on by churches。
and different organizations and groups,。
there was also a lot of panic and fear in our neighborhoods.。
And that's what I stumbled on one night.。
Sammy and I, my wife, were coming home from Carbone,。
which is the best hidden gem in Chicago.。
It's right by Riccobini's,。
and it is so much better than Riccobini's,。
so if you're ever in town, go there.。
It is the best.。
So we were coming back from that,。
and we were driving on 31st and Princeton,。
and we noticed at this intersection。
was a massive crowd of people, like massive.。
I'm talking 40 to 50 people,。
and remember, we've just come out of lockdown,。
so this is not normal, right?。
What is this massive crowd doing?。
And we finally drive through, and we get through,。
and we notice along our street。
there's a bunch of people sitting outside。
of their doorsteps, people sitting on lawn chairs。
right in front of their buildings.。
People are kind of alert and waiting.。
So we find out that apparently。
one of the very peacefully planned protests。
was going to walk through just a corner of our neighborhood,。
just a tiny spot of our neighborhood.。
And the place where we live just erupted.。
People were not okay.。
That crowd, they were walking around with baseball bats,。
crowbars, table legs that they had unscrewed。
from their table.。
I even saw a machete.。
There were people sitting outside their buildings。
with pistols.。
I even saw somebody with an AK.。
I am not kidding, a semi-automatic weapon.。
So being the genius that I am,。
and against the wishes of my much smarter wife,。
I decide I'm gonna go take photos of this.。
How often do you see somebody walking along a street。
right next to a police officer with a pistol。
or a freaking machete?。
Not very often.。
So I take my camera and I go out, I go down our street,。
and it's tense.。
It's, well, not yet.。
It's not actually yet tense.。
Right now it's pretty light.。
I get up there and it's by Franco's Restaurant。
and everybody is having a good time.。
They're joking with each other.。
They're showing off the table legs or the crowbars。
or whatever random assortment of weapons。
they decided to bring to this little gathering.。
Oh, it's a little insane.。
And they're all drinking too.。
They're in this group and they have,。
like some of them have crowbars in one hand。
and beer in the other.。
And it's getting to them.。
So I'm a little anxious about this.。
So I make sure to do all the best practices.。
I say, "Hey, I'm just a photographer.。
"I've been photographing everything that's happening。
"from the pandemic to the protests.。
"Just so you know, I'll be taking photos.。
"If you don't want me to take your photo,。
"just let me know."。
And I get a lot of people saying, "Yeah, you're fine."。
And then some people saying,。
"I'd prefer not to be in photos."。
I'm like, "Okay."。
And then we hear a noise.。
And two young kids, I'm talking 10 and 13, tops,。
ride their bikes past our crowd.。
And two of the guys in the crowd。
throw their beer bottles at these kids。
and yell, "We don't want you in our neighborhood."。
Everything just shifted in a moment.。
The tone just took a 180.。
And suddenly, things were not jovial anymore.。
People weren't messing around.。
There was this weird macho and this weird,。
almost like desire for violence。
or desire for letting out their aggression in this crowd.。
It shifted massively.。
And in that moment, some of the people。
who were a little more under the influence turned around。
and they pointed their weapons at me and they said,。
"You can't have that here.。
"You need to get out of here.。
"Some of these people have city jobs, man.。
"They don't want me taking photos of them。
"doing illegal and terrible things."。
So I sense it and I try to push back,。
like, "Hey, it's public space," but they're not having it.。
So I start to turn around。
and I don't wanna walk directly home。
because I'm only one and a half blocks away。
from where I live.。
So I walk the other direction。
and two of the guys start following me.。
My genius mind was like,。
"I should get the memory card out of my camera."。
So I do that and that's what I'm thinking of.。
And I'm thinking, "I need to find a safe spot."。
I see a streetlight off to the corner。
and I head there thinking,。
"Surely no one's gonna mess with me。
"in broad streetlight 'cause it's dark at this point."。
So I get there and the two guys show up。
and there's a group of people。
kind of hanging around that streetlight。
and they all form a circle.。
And out of the home by that corner comes this older guy.。
And if you've ever seen a mafia movie。
and you think of like that old mob boss,。
that's the image of this guy.。
About yay high, balding head, combed over.。
Like I don't think he had a cigar,。
but if he did, it would have made perfect sense.。
So he comes out, he's in his white shirt with his overalls。
and he decides to be the one。
to take the charge questioning me.。
And on his shoulder is a sawed off shotgun.。
So this whole crowd surrounds me。
and starts asking me questions about where am I from?。
Am I actually in this neighborhood?。
Do I live here?。
What, let me see your driver's license.。
Prove that you're not from somewhere else in the city。
and you're not trying to like screw us over.。
These guys start getting intense.。
They start yelling at me.。
I'm anxious, I'm worried.。
I'm trying everything I can to calm them down.。
And eventually I just say,。
"Look, I am just gonna leave, all right?。
"Clearly you don't want your photo taken.。
"I will not take your photo.。
"I haven't taken any photo since it got intense.。
"I'm just gonna leave."。
And they're like, "Yeah, you do that."。
I leave and people trail me for just a little bit。
but then I zigzag around。
so that nobody can see where I'm going。
and I come home and I am shook up.。
I am like anxious about this.。
Even now thinking about the encounter。
it gets me really, really tense.。
I haven't told this story。
because I think there are a lot of other stories。
at that time that were more worthy of telling。
and more timely and I don't think the world needed me。
to tell this story or anything like that.。
It wasn't that groundbreaking or anything.。
There were other narratives that needed。
to be lifted up during that time.。
So I kept it to myself but the reason I'm bringing it out now。
is because the themes of that story。
of hatred and division and aggression。
tie in really well to the themes of the book of Jonah.。
I won't talk about what that is now。
but I'll bring it back in just a minute.。
So let's pray.。
Oh God, thank you so much that you are our God,。
that you love us, that you protect us,。
that you have grace for us,。
that you have given us your word。
so that we may know who you are。
and that you give us wonderful gems of Bible books。
like the book of Jonah.。
I pray that you'd be with us as we talk about it.。
Be with me as I speak about it.。
Don't let me say anything that is against。
or contrary to what you stand for, God.。
Let each of us in this room examine our own hearts。
in the light of you and what you stand for, God.。
May you have your way with each of us.。
We love you, God, and we pray this in your name, amen.。
Now, if I were to ask any of you。
what the book of Jonah is about,。
most of us think about VeggieTales, right?。
Most of us think about the pirates who don't do anything。
and we think about the VeggieTales movie,。
the bankrupt their studio, right?。
And in that movie, you have a bunch of vegetables。
singing fun songs about how awesome God is。
and how he gives second chances.。
And it's so much fun,。
but it's also a very watered down version。
of the actual book, right?。
Trying to describe the book of Jonah as,。
oh, Jonah's scared of Nineveh, he runs away,。
God gives him a second chance。
and everything turns out great.。
Describing it that way is like trying to describe。
Avengers Endgame as somebody steals jewelry。
from an old guy.。
It's not really gonna cover all the bases.。
It might technically be true,。
but it doesn't give you the full scope of what's there.。
And that's a shame because the book of Jonah。
is crazy cool.。
It is funny, it is extreme,。
it is almost satirical in nature.。
And it is kind of one of a kind in the Bible.。
And when we look at it and we kind of view it。
through the lens of a children's book,。
we do it a massive disservice.。
I gotta give credit to Tim Mackey from The Bible Project。
because his work on unraveling and decoding this book。
and helping me see it in the way。
that maybe the person reading it at the time would have。
has changed the way that I look at the book forever.。
So props to him.。
Now, the part we wanna talk about today。
is at the very end of the book.。
And we can't talk about the very end of the book。
without discussing what goes on for the rest of it.。
So in order to talk about the rest of the book。
and to sum it up,。
I'm gonna use the most sophisticated。
storytelling tool I have, puppets.。
(audience laughing)。
Now, my wife was very much against this,。
but for me, that was very personal。
because for those of you who don't know, I was homeschooled.。
And we don't have sports when you're homeschooled.。
When you're homeschooled,。
you don't join the volleyball team,。
you join the puppet team.。
I'm not kidding.。
I was in a traveling puppet troop.。
We had neon puppets and we were basically the varsity team.。
I was pretty good.。
In fact, the puppets I had,。
you actually had arm rods to deal with as well.。
And they were way more advanced than these level one puppets.。
But we're gonna work with what the Moody Library has。
and we're just gonna go with that.。
Sound good?。
So bear with me as I give a bit of a comical recap。
of the book of Jonah up to this point.。
Sound good?。
Cool.。
Let's recap Jonah.。
This is a bit of an overview that Tim Mackey did.。
It is wonderful.。
We're gonna go through the spark notes of this。
as we tell this story.。
This is Jonah.。
You can tell because he has a necklace of a whale。
and it says Jonah.。
I don't think that's canonical,。
but the puppet says it, so we're gonna go with it.。
This is Jonah.。
And Jonah's a prophet.。
For those of us who don't know,。
prophets of the time were basically。
God's mouthpiece to Israel.。
So God would need to say something to people,。
but because God prefers to work through people,。
through his representatives on the earth,。
that's what it means that we're the image of God。
or images of God,。
he uses humans to work with other humans.。
So he had prophets.。
It was this class of people that would。
speak on behalf of God.。
And Jonah was one of those prophets.。
Now if you're in ancient Hebrew。
and you're reading the book of Jonah,。
when you say, oh, this is a prophetical book,。
you're expecting to open it up。
and hear all the proclamations of judgments。
that God has for Israel,。
or all the warnings or all the encouragements that he has.。
If you look at the books ahead or behind of Jonah,。
they're just chapter upon chapter of the prophets。
saying to Israel what they need to know.。
But then the book of Jonah is different.。
It's a narrative.。
And not only that,。
it's kind of intense and insane and extreme。
in the best way possible.。
So at the beginning of the book,。
God sends Jonah a message.。
It says, "And the word of the Lord came to Jonah.。
"Go to Nineveh and that great city。
"and tell them the judgment I have for them.。
"In 40 days, they're going to be destroyed."。
Now, Jonah doesn't like this.。
Jonah dislikes this so much。
that rather than going to Nineveh over here,。
he turns the other direction and heads towards Tarshish.。
He gets to a port of Joppa,。
he gets in the boat,。
and he sails away from where God has asked him to go.。
We were going over this with our students。
at Urban Voice recently,。
and we were like, what do you think is Jonah's motivation?。
Why is he running?。
Why does he not want to do what God has asked him to?。
And the general consensus from the students。
and from just about anybody who reads it。
is that Nineveh's a bad place and Jonah's terrified.。
What Nineveh used to do is when they conquered a city。
and they took the walls down,。
or they conquered a city。
and they would take the leader of that city。
and they would string,。
I don't know how graphic I should be,。
they would cut them up in creative ways。
and string them along the wall of that city.。
So the leaders would not only be killed and bleeding out,。
but they'd also be publicly humiliated in the process,。
and everybody in that city would have a very clear reminder。
of what has happened to them.。
So our students are like, well, Jonah's terrified.。
They don't want that to happen to him.。
I wouldn't want to go tell Nineveh,。
hey, you're gonna be destroyed in like 40 days.。
So Jonah's running away.。
He gets in the boat, he falls asleep,。
and then the Bible says God sent a massive wind,。
a great wind, a storm to hit this boat,。
and things are terrifying, things are freaky.。
It's so bad, in fact,。
that the sailors, who are apparently。
on a different diet than Jonah, are terrified,。
and they begin praying to their God,。
and they're like, ah, what is happening?。
And they're like, is everybody praying to their God?。
Do we have all of our bases covered?。
What's that one guy down deck that's sleeping?。
Go wake him up.。
And the captain comes and says, Jonah, pray to your God.。
What are you doing?。
He's like, what, what, oh, okay.。
So they're all praying to their gods.。
Notice, Jonah ain't saying a word.。
They're terrified, and Jonah knows what's going on,。
but he's just keeping his mouth shut.。
He's willing to let them all figure it out themselves.。
So they cast lots, they play a game of chance,。
and Jonah draws the short straw.。
So in that day and age, oh, crap, our God's mad at you.。
And Jonah says, yeah, I am a Hebrew,。
and I worship the God Jehovah, Yahweh,。
and basically, he's really angry at me。
for running away from him.。
That's why all this is happening.。
So they're like, oh my gosh, this is terrifying.。
And they're such great people。
that they actually try to row the other way.。
They're like, maybe we can row out of it.。
And Jonah's like, no, what you have to do is,。
now at this point, you'd think Jonah maybe understands。
that God's mad at him.。
Jonah maybe knows what he has to do.。
Maybe Jonah's gonna tell them,。
hey, we should turn this boat around,。
go the other way, and I'll go to Nineveh.。
But what's Jonah say?。
You should throw me overboard.。
You should throw me into the sea and leave me to drown.。
Jonah would rather die than go to Nineveh for some reason.。
They don't wanna do it.。
They try to row the other way.。
It won't work.。
And with a prayer to God, like God,。
forgive us if this results in this man dying,。
they throw him overboard.。
The storm clears.。
And the first subversive thing that happens,。
the thing we're not expecting,。
is that all the sailors are like, crap,。
that must be the real God.。
And they make covenants towards him,。
and they make promises.。
Those sailors become believers in Jehovah.。
Even though they would have been of other nations,。
even though they would have been of other tongues。
and different religions,。
they come to know God through it.。
So Jonah's drowning.。
And this is the part of the story everyone loves.。
God sends a fish,。
who is apparently a very happy whale,。
to swallow Jonah up, right?。
God is not going to let Jonah die,。
'cause honestly, Jonah dying would kinda be like him。
getting one over on God, like,。
ha ha, you can't make me go to Nineveh.。
So God swallows, God has the fish swallow Jonah up,。
and while in the belly of the whale,。
Jonah recites different psalms.。
He prays to God.。
Now, on first read, it looks like he's praying,。
looks like he's repenting,。
but the more you read it, he never actually apologizes.。
He never actually commits to be better, really.。
All he's really doing is quoting psalms。
about how amazing God is, how forgiving God is,。
how salvific and loving God is.。
And after three days, God tells the fish。
to vomit Jonah out onto dry land.。
That's what the text says.。
There's vomit in the Bible.。
Vomit is a key element of this story.。
So the fish vomits Jonah onto dry land,。
and Jonah decides to go to Nineveh.。
So he's going into Nineveh,。
and we're told Nineveh is a great city.。
It would take three days to walk all the way through Nineveh.。
But Jonah, he walks one day into it.。
Just one day.。
It's a three-day trip city, but he goes in one day,。
and he says, oh, sorry,。
and he says, "40 more days,。
"and Nineveh shall be overturned."。
Hey, in 40 days, you're all going to be destroyed.。
Not a very convincing sermon.。
Jonah didn't put his best work towards this.。
He's not exactly attempting to convince anybody.。
He's fulfilling an obligation.。
He's doing the barest minimal possible.。
So he goes part of the way into the city,。
and he says, hey, you guys are all going to be destroyed。
in 40 days, and then that's it.。
But the next part is also surprising.。
We wouldn't have expected the sailors to turn to God,。
and we also wouldn't have expected Nineveh to,。
but what happens is that word gets all the way,。
oh boy, word gets all the way to the Ninevite king,。
and he's like, oh, crap, guys,。
we're going to be destroyed in 40 days,。
and he puts out a decree to all of the people。
in that nation.。
He says, guys, we need to dress ourselves。
in sackcloth and ash, which is the thing you would do。
at that time if you were grieving and in despair,。
and he says, and we need to pray to this God。
and ask him, because maybe he'll relent.。
And so the king has every man, even every cattle,。
every freaking cow, be in sackcloth and ashes and repent.。
And at the end of chapter three, it says,。
and God saw what they had done and relented.。
So now we're at the point of the story where we want to be.。
Now we're at the very last chapter,。
and this chapter is kind of like a key.。
It unlocks some of Jonah's motivations.。
It tells you what he was thinking。
throughout this entire ordeal.。
So that's where we're going to pick up.。
But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry,。
and he prayed to the Lord and said, oh, Lord,。
is this, is not this what I said。
when I was yet in my country?。
That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish.。
Pause for a second.。
Jonah's telling us why he didn't go to Nineveh.。
He's explaining it himself.。
He wasn't afraid of Nineveh.。
He knew that God was going to forgive Nineveh if he went.。
Jonah continues, for I knew that you are a gracious God。
and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love。
and relenting from disaster.。
Therefore now, oh Lord, please take my life from me,。
for it is better for me to die than to live.。
Jonah's throwing a temper tantrum.。
Jonah is like a child who doesn't like a decision。
his parents has made, and the Lord said,。
you do well to be angry.。
Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city。
and made a booth for himself there.。
He sets up tent.。
He sat under it in the shade till he should see。
what would become of the city.。
So remember he said in 40 days,。
you guys are gonna be destroyed.。
He's camping out there for 40 days just out of spite,。
just because he wants to watch them be destroyed.。
Now the Lord God appointed a plant。
and made it come up over Jonah,。
that it might be a shade over his head。
to save him from his discomfort.。
So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of this plant.。
Notice when God is giving Jonah some favor,。
Jonah's happy, he's a happy boy.。
He's great with this.。
But when dawn came up the next day。
and Nineveh was not destroyed,。
God appointed a worm that attacked the plant。
so that it withered.。
When the sun arose, God pointed a scorching east wind。
and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah。
so that he was faint.。
And he asked that he might die and said,。
it is better for me to die than to live.。
Apparently Jonah keeps going back to this。
whenever he's in an argument.。
But God said to Jonah,。
do you do well to be angry for the plant?。
He said, yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die.。
And the Lord said, you pity the plant。
for which you did not labor,。
nor did you make it grow which came into being in a night。
and perished in a night.。
And should I not pity Nineveh,。
that great city in which there are more than 120,000 persons。
who do not even know their right hand from their left。
and also much cattle?。
And that's the end of the book.。
That's how it ends.。
In some translations, which I love,。
it's and even the cows?。
Then it just ends.。
You end with God being like,。
and what about the cows, Jonah?。
So this is just the weirdest, strangest dud。
of an ending to a book, but it is so fascinating.。
It is so fascinating.。
Because what this final chapter reveals about Jonah。
is that Jonah was not afraid that Nineveh would kill him.。
Jonah was afraid Nineveh would be forgiven.。
Jonah was so sure that if he went to Nineveh,。
like God asked him to, that God would forgive Nineveh.。
And Jonah didn't like that.。
And he was willing to run away for it,。
leave his entire life for it.。
He was even willing to die for it.。
What is interesting here is that Jonah refuses。
to accept a God who loves people that Jonah hates.。
Say that again.。
Jonah refuses to accept a God who loves people Jonah hates.。
I wanna go back to that story, kind of.。
I wanna go to a few days after that happened.。
Samy and I were going out to eat。
once restaurants were allowed to open up.。
And we were at a pizza place next to our restaurant,。
next to where we live.。
And it's in the same neighborhood that this event happened.。
And we're eating our pizza,。
and in walks one of the guys from that night.。
In fact, this was one of the guys。
who even threw his bottle at one of the teenagers.。
And one of the guys who followed me。
midway through when I tried to leave.。
I noticed myself tense up.。
I noticed my breathing get shallow.。
I was getting anxious.。
I asked Samy, "We finished our food?"。
And then I asked her if we could leave.。
And I remember, because he was the one。
who had been saying, "We don't want you here.。
"These people have city jobs."。
And from that point, for the next few months,。
something in me had shifted.。
Something in me had changed.。
And something about the way that I viewed my neighbors。
and the people on my street had altered.。
I didn't want to pass them while I was walking my dog.。
I didn't want to talk to them when I was parking my car.。
I didn't want to run into them at any of the businesses.。
In fact, when I'm doing all of those things,。
there is a very real part of me that despises them.。
There's a very real part of me that sees。
some of those faces that I remember from that night。
and feels very real anger and very real vitriol。
and almost hatred, almost like I despise their very being.。
I hate the fact that they're in my neighborhood.。
I hate the fact that I live among them.。
And all these thoughts are going through my head。
as I walk my dog past them,。
as I shop next to them at the gas station。
or fill up my vehicle.。
In that moment, guys, I had also become Jonah.。
We read this book and we think it's a little insane。
or a little extreme,。
but we ourselves are prone to the exact same thing.。
I could not look at my neighbors。
with the eyes that God looks at them。
because of my anger towards them.。
I could not accept that God also loves them。
because of what I perceived as the kind of people they were.。
And I lived like that for a while.。
In this moment, Jonah believes he knows better than God.。
That's the root of it.。
God, I know better than you.。
And if you were to make something bad happen to these people。
that would be better, that would be justice.。
If you were to make it so that they couldn't do that。
to people anymore, that would be justice.。
It's this belief that we know better than God.。
And it's also the same exact motivation。
as Adam and Eve in the garden.。
What do Adam and Eve in the garden do?。
God tells them something bad is going to happen。
if they do something, but they decide,。
I think something good is gonna happen if I do that.。
So often in Genesis we're told, and God said it was good,。
and God said it was good, and God said it was good.。
And then with the apple or the fruit。
that he's told them not to eat,。
it says they looked and saw that it was good.。
That's a verbal code for us,。
that they looked and they're making the moral judgment call.。
The disobedience didn't happen at the bite of the fruit.。
The disobedience happened when they decided。
to pick it from the tree.。
To pull this even closer to our story,。
at the very beginning it says,。
but it displeased Jonah exceedingly.。
See that little A?。
That means there's a different way。
that it's said in certain passages.。
Some passages don't say that it displeased Jonah exceedingly.。
Some passages say Jonah found it exceedingly evil.。
And what happens right before this?。
God relents, God does not destroy Nineveh.。
So God doesn't destroy Nineveh,。
and in some of the passages we have,。
it was seen as exceedingly evil to Jonah.。
Jonah is now the one making these moral judgment calls.。
But who are we to look down on Jonah for that?。
'Cause we do that all the time.。
I know that this has happened to me,。
and I know it's probably happened to you.。
People who have hurt us, people who have maybe betrayed us,。
or people who have inconvenienced us.。
We have this desire in ourselves to not see them be treated。
with the same love and care that we ourselves have known.。
Here's the other weird part about this passage.。
Belief in God was not Jonah's problem.。
Jonah was very aware of God's existence.。
Jonah knows God, Jonah hears from God,。
yet he doesn't understand God's values。
and isn't on board with his mission.。
A person can fully believe in God,。
yet not understand his values。
or be on board with his mission.。
That should terrify us.。
There are people walking around, sometimes even us,。
with the Christian word on their shirt。
who are hurting people, who are causing pain or division,。
and all the while they have the name Jesus on their shirt.。
That should scare us.。
And it should remind us that belief in God,。
belief that he's real and belief that the things。
in the Bible are how they happened,。
isn't the thing that saves us.。
It's us saying we submit ourselves to your mission,。
to your values, and to your way.。
You are our God, not me.。
When we believe we know better than God,。
we are choosing Adam, not Jesus.。
Interesting side note, our students, some of them,。
I've had interesting conversations with them。
where we'll talk about what it means to be a Christian,。
and almost none of our students are hung up。
on the idea of believing in Jesus.。
Some of them wanna talk apologetics.。
Some of them wanna talk about the archeology and all that,。
but the majority of them, the majority of,。
I would say people, the thing you can't get behind。
isn't the belief about whether or not it's real,。
but it's the submission to another being's way。
of doing things that's hard.。
And we struggle with that,。
even though we may believe in him.。
Here's another thing we learn from this passage。
is that we cannot fully love others like God loves them。
until we learn to see ourselves the way God sees us.。
We cannot fully love others like God loves them。
until we learn to see ourselves the way God sees us.。
When we view ourselves as higher than or better than others。
because of whatever metric。
is in front of our noses at that time,。
we are doing the same thing the Pharisees did.。
We're doing the same thing Jesus rebuked the Pharisees for.。
We are saying we are better。
because of something we've earned,。
because of something we've done,。
because of something I am,。
and you are worse because of something you are。
or something you've done.。
Paul in the New Testament,。
an apostle who would write。
to many of the different churches,。
he understood this well.。
He understood that he can't love other people。
until he sees himself the way God sees him.。
Paul has this really interesting message at one point。
where he says, "I am the chief among sinners."。
And that's crazy and weird to the people of the time。
because this is the guy who's leading the charge。
in bringing the gospel to Gentiles.。
This is like earliest Christian celebrity, right?。
That guy, the one who's writing most of the New Testament?。
And he says, "I am the chief among sinners.。
I'm the greatest sinner I know。
because I know my thoughts.。
I can't read your thoughts.。
And I know who I am and I know how dark I can be.。
I know how evil I could become."。
And that sort of knowledge and understanding of oneself。
leads to a humility that says,。
"I can love other people and love them better。
and find them more important than I find myself."。
Paul had that, Jesus had that.。
Sometimes we struggle to have that.。
Finally, we don't get to decide who is worthy of God's love.。
We're not the gatekeepers.。
We are not the one who makes the rules.。
When we accept that God has loved us。
and done something for us。
to bring us into a better state of being,。
to bring us from a state of death to a state of life,。
we agree with God that that is a possibility for everybody.。
Even the people who we despise,。
the people who have hurt us, who have betrayed us,。
the people who are on the opposite end。
of our political spectrum,。
the people who do evil things in the world,。
we have to believe with God。
that they are as eligible for his grace as we are.。
We can't be the ones who decide。
who is and who isn't worthy of that.。
And the way we go about our lives needs to reflect that.。
I know that's sobering for me.。
I say all this,。
I say all this having told you about this struggle I've had,。
especially in the past year with my neighbors.。
And I wanna tell you how this sort of ended。
and wrapped up for me.。
One of the things I love about our neighborhood。
and about the churches in our neighborhood。
is that we do this thing called Pray Bridgeport.。
And it's amazing.。
It's all the churches in the area。
who are willing to come together。
and we pray for our neighborhood.。
And it's freaking beautiful.。
We got Anglicans over here, we got Baptists over here,。
we have people of all different like cultures,。
nationalities, all different denominations,。
and we're all coming together to pray。
that God would love the people in our neighborhood.。
And it's amazing.。
And a few months after that incident in my neighborhood,。
I was at a Pray Bridgeport at our park at Armor Square,。
which is right where I live,。
which is right where this incident had happened, basically.。
And they had set up prayer at different stations.。
So you would go to one station。
and pray for a specific thing,。
go to another station and pray for a specific thing.。
And I was going about these stations。
and I get to a station。
that is praying for the political。
and social divide in our neighborhood.。
And it's run by some of the pastors。
at Progressive Baptist Church,。
who are some of the people who are organizing。
the peaceful marches and the protests of that time.。
They're organizing these things。
and they lead us in prayer for the very people。
who I had just been hating in my own heart for so long.。
The very people I didn't wanna think about,。
the very people I was honestly terrified。
that God would ask me to talk to at some point。
because I didn't want to。
and I didn't want them to know about God.。
I didn't want to have to be forced to talk about him。
to someone who I find so despicable.。
And these people who were even organizing。
these protests and marches,。
lead us in prayer for that, for them asking God,。
would you work in their hearts?。
Would you help them to see the error of their ways?。
And would you grip them for a greater purpose?。
Make them people who bring about good in your world.。
And that was the prayer that I couldn't pray at that time.。
And it was me coming face to face with the idea that。
Jesus loves them as terrible。
as they might be at their worst.。
I'm also terrible at my worst.。
And let me clarify, this is not to say in any way。
that Jesus permits some of the kinds of things。
they were doing or the violence or the animosity,。
but that if we have a biblical example。
of God using one of his prophets。
to reach such an evil city as Nineveh,。
we need to know that God can reach。
even those who we see are evil.。
And if we're not getting on board with that,。
we are being against God and trying to gatekeep。
and hold things that we want for ourselves。
and not letting other people have it.。
Here's the final point.。
Jesus is kind of like the new Jonah.。
Do you guys remember when Jonah。
was in the belly of the fish?。
He was in the belly of the fish。
for three days and three nights.。
Our alarm bells should be ringing.。
That is like a biblical hyperlink。
to another theme in the Bible.。
Who else was in the dark for three days and three nights?。
That's Jesus.。
We're supposed to see parallels between Jonah and Jesus.。
Both are, in a sense, messengers to a people。
delivering a message from God。
of repentance for their own good.。
And Jonah goes into the belly of the fish。
for three days and three nights,。
and Jesus goes into the grave。
for three days and three nights.。
But the difference between the two。
is that where Jesus decides。
that he is going to take up this cross。
to bear this mantle and to love the people he's sent to,。
Jonah despises them.。
Jonah fights tooth and nail against God,。
even as he's given the job。
of letting these people know that they need to repent.。
But Jesus walks to the cross.。
Jesus is consistent.。
Jesus is steady.。
Jesus continues to love the people。
who are doing him active harm.。
And when Jesus is strung up on the cross,。
in much the same way the Ninevites。
would have strung up their enemies on their walls,。
Jesus utters, "God, forgive them,。
"for they know not what they do."。
May we have that kind of a heart.。
May we have that kind of a desire for people,。
that when we see evil。
and when we see bad behavior in the world,。
we don't despise them,。
we don't stoop to their level of making our own enemies,。
but we understand that God's transformational love。
and his work in our hearts。
is something that also could be done in theirs.。
And may we hope for that.。
It might not always happen,。
but might we pray for that and desire that,。
not just for the people who we see as worthy,。
but for the people who God loves, which is everybody.。
If you're a Christian in this room,。
at all times, as an ambassador of God's kingdom,。
you have a choice to be a Jonah or to be a Jesus.。
Not that you can be Jesus, but you know what I mean.。
Are you going to love the people you have been sent to,。
sacrificially trusting that God is good,。
or are you going to fight him tooth and nail。
for your own way?。
May we choose to be more like Jesus and not Jonah.。
Let's pray.。
God, thank you for this convicting passage.。
Thank you for this strange novelty of a book.。
Thank you that it's so different。
from many of the other parts of the Bible.。
And thank you that it is such a mirror to us.。
Thank you that when we look to it,。
it is so subversive and it points out。
the flaws in our own heart so well.。
Thank you that it allows us to see。
the areas where we need to grow.。
And God, I pray for each of us,。
would you give us a heart that is similar。
to the heart of Jesus,。
that when we look at people who are lost,。
when we look at people who are in the dark,。
we don't despise them for what they might do。
to ourselves or to other people,。
but would we have pity and compassion and empathy。
and seek to show them the love that you have first shown us?。
God, we pray that you would use us mightily.。
We pray for each of those people。
who we all maybe have a difficult time loving.。
Would you be with them?。
Would you work in their hearts?。
And also would you work in ours。
to know how to love them well and to represent you better?。
We love you, God, and we pray this in your name.。
