about that. So we are in a very new series because we are nine year old. We have already。
celebrated our ninth year last Sunday and I know many of you were here with us and all。
the Easter Sundays are the church's anniversary. So we are nine years old and because we're。
coming to a new year, the ninth year of UV in our church, we would like to do something。
special this coming year. So in this coming year, we are going to centre on one theme,。
going to centre on one topic and this theme, this topic is called "Crossover". Now what。
is this? Okay, so you can see the logo is very beautifully written out, right? I hope。
this coming year you will know how to sign this. It's a cross and there's a heart and。
we're going to go out, right? And that's what we mean by crossover, alright? Qua yue, transform,。
to go beyond our comfort zone and that's the first thing we want to do. We all have our。
own comfort zone, right? Our emotional comfort zone, our social comfort zone and our own。
physical comfort zone, especially after the pandemic, right? Everyone seems to be suffering。
from social anxiety, right? Don't come near, okay? I want to be myself, okay? I want to。
just be isolated, right? And the Bible challenges if we are in the love of God, if we are in。
the grace of God, we need to leave our own comfort zone and that means we need to grow,。
okay? There are many ways we need to grow, emotionally, socially, spiritually, relationally,。
all kinds of things. We need to leave our comfort zone. So when I say comfort zone,。
you probably will automatically think of some of the things that you try to keep to yourself。
and that may be our comfort zone and in this coming year we want to challenge you, we want。
to remind you to step out of your comfort zone, alright? The second thing here is to。
join with other followers of Jesus Christ. In our church there are many sisters and brothers。
from different backgrounds, speak different languages. I told you last year I had the。
goal of improving my Chinese, right? Yeah, the goal failed, okay? But this year it's。
going to be my goal as well, okay? I'm going to improve my Mandarin speaking skill, okay?。
I will continue to do that, alright? I may have said many funny things but I will head。
on, okay? I will continue to improve. So to join with other followers of Jesus Christ。
is to grow together, right? How do I improve my Chinese skill? By talking to you, right?。
And you talk back to me. And we have conversations and we have fellowship and we build our relationship。
together and we try to build a community to join with other followers of Jesus. That's。
the number two. Number three is that if our church continues to grow, if we experience。
the grace of God and we leave our comfort zone and join with others to build a church,。
then we will have more potential, our redemptive potential to reach other people for Christ,。
other neighbours for Christ. So that's the three things I want to remind you this coming。
year. We're going to remind you every single week almost. Leave your comfort zone. Pray。
that God will give you strength so that I can grow and leave my comfort zone and join。
hands with other people and reach out with the gospel, with the love of Christ. And God。
is calling us this year, the ninth year, to grow deeper, to deepen our unity, alright?。
How can we unite together? We have to get to know each other. We have to speak to one。
another and we have to boldly engage in sharing the gospel to our neighbours. So this will。
be a year long focus and we want to take some of the passages from the book of Acts week。
after week. And we're going to preach and we're going to do Bible study on the book。
of Acts. You know how many chapters are in the book of Acts? How many chapters altogether?。
28. 28 chapters, alright? So that should be enough for us, right? There's a lot of materials.。
And as you understand, the book of Acts is about the early history, early movement of Jesus'。
followers, the very first generation and what did they do. And the book of Acts is all about。
how they leave their comfort zone and to join with other people and to use the gospel and。
take the gospel to a farther end of the earth. So again, we will do sermons and we will do。
Bible study. We'll do a lot of things, you know, take materials from the book of Acts.。
And today we would like to take a moment to think about what the book of Acts is all about.。
Alright? Understand the bigger picture. Now in the book of Acts chapter 1, right from。
the beginning, it is Jesus rose from the dead and he stayed with his disciples for 40 days.。
And he taught them about the kingdom of God. And there's a kingdom of God, there's a reign。
of God coming to his people. And that is the kingdom project, so to speak. And this kingdom。
project is a huge project. Acts 1.6. It says, "So when they had come together, the disciples,。
and Jesus, after Jesus rose from the dead and before he ascended to heaven, those 40。
days they had come together, the disciples asked Jesus a question. It's a very legitimate。
question. They said, "Lord Jesus, will you at this time restore the kingdom of Israel?"。
That's a legitimate question. Because every Jewish boy and girl is dreaming of the restored。
kingdom of heaven, restored kingdom of Israel. You know, in the good old days, in the times。
of David, King David, thousand years before Jesus, there was a kingdom, right? There was。
a political entity that they enjoy independence and freedom. And that's what they had in mind.。
And they asked Jesus, "Hey, is it at this time because you rose from the dead and the。
kingdom project has begun, and it's this time that you're going to restore the fallen, the。
lost kingdom of Israel?" They asked Jesus that, and Jesus said to them, "It is not for。
you guys to know the times or the seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority."。
Alright, so he answered the question saying, "It's not for you to determine the time and。
the manner of the kingdom." So as I said, being Jewish in their blood, the disciples。
were thinking and dreaming about maybe Jesus would restore that kingdom of David, the political。
state of Israel. However, if you read on how Jesus replied to the disciples' questions,。
God has a bigger, bigger plan for his kingdom. God was about to launch a kingdom on earth.。
Yes, yes, it can be called Israel, but this kingdom is not just a plot of land on the。
globe. This kingdom will be reaching to the ends of the earth. So God has a bigger plan。
for us. God has a bigger plan for the disciples. So I want you to think about this, okay? Think。
about what God wants from you. If God, in the Son of Jesus, in the Son of God, Jesus,。
rose from the dead, what does he want from you? And you have that new life. And God has。
a bigger plan for you. Now you may think, "Okay, I just attend church. I just attend。
Bible study, eat with other people. They have good food. Today we have good food. That's。
why we come. That's our dream. Maybe today, this morning you wake up, and that's all you're。
coming in for, right? Coffee, food, all this stuff. Maybe some lovely people here." But。
God has a bigger plan. I remember when I was younger, I'm already over 50 years old. I。
remember when I was 20 years old, I started going to church, and I had my own job. I graduated。
with a biochemistry degree, and I was working in the chemistry lab back many years ago in。
California. And I thought, "No, my goal is just to, okay, every week I'll attend the。
church. Of course, that's my basic, right? I'll do that. No problem." But that's pretty。
much it. I have my own job, and I have my own comfort life, and that's my comfort zone,。
right? And maybe here and there I try to help out, try to help out with the worship team,。
or try to help out with the backstage, try to help out with being an usher, anything。
I can do. But obviously, God has a bigger plan for me, right? And God has a bigger plan。
for you. I remember when we started and launched this church nine years ago, right here, last。
week some of you were here, and you saw some of the pictures, right? And we were an empty。
warehouse nine years ago. And I thought, "Okay, we'll just begin a local church, right? We'll。
stay small, you know, we'll do a little bit of things here and there, and that's it, right?"。
But little by little, God is showing us what He has in store for us. And I just never thought。
of or never expected that we would come to this day, right? Especially through the years。
of pandemics. Oh, those were very chaotic times, right? I remember we came here to pack。
up everything, you know, the sound equipment, the audio interface, and you know, those hardware,。
and we move it back to my home so that we can do live stream. And it was for a long。
time it was chaotic. But we come back after years of pandemic, and our online presence。
has been growing bigger. So that's why I'm saying God has something bigger for His people。
and for our church, right? So God wants to launch a kingdom, not in the political sense,。
but in the spiritual sense. But look at you guys, right? Where are you from? Some of the。
early conversations that we have with some of the new friends here is that, "Where are。
you from?" Right? Yeah, where's your hometown? We all come from different hometowns, different。
places, different background, we speak different languages, we have different cultures. But。
you know, God has this bigger plan for all of us and draws us together, all right? Now。
I want to repeat this. I want to remind you and emphasize this. If you want to choose。
your good friend or best friend, you wouldn't choose me, all right? And I wouldn't choose。
you, to be honest, okay? Because we're so different, okay? Okay, maybe you find me being。
a good friend, okay? But all I'm saying is God in His will put us together for a bigger。
purpose, you see? It's not by my choice, it's not by your choice, ultimately it's God's。
own choice and it's the Spirit's will to put us together as a body of Christ, as a church。
community and we can do something for God. And God does have a bigger plan for you and。
for me and for our church. So what does the Kingdom Project look like, all right? So Jesus。
is trying to answer this question. And let me break it down. Jesus in the book Acts chapter。
1 is trying to explain to the disciples, this is what God wants to do. This is what the。
Kingdom of God looks like. Number one, every person will be called to believe in the name。
of Christ. To come under the cross, at the foot of the cross, we believe the gospel and。
so that we are transformed by the love of God, by the grace of God. That's number one.。
Each of us, each and every one of us, has experienced God's salvation at the cross in。
many different ways but there's a common ground for all of us. We are all in Christ. We are。
all loved by God. We all belong to the sons and daughters of the Kingdom. That's number。
one. Number two, the Kingdom Project is all about each and every one of us, after we experience。
the transformation of the love of God, is joined together with other people, with other。
believers and we combine together, we grow the church body, the community together, right?。
And then ultimately, it's not for us. It's not that, okay, we are a happy family and。
then we're going to close the door and we enjoy our time. We're going to reach out to。
share the gospel to the ends of the earth. And that is the Kingdom Project God has in。
mind. So Jesus is challenging his disciples, his church. Hey, yes, I'm going to launch。
a new kingdom but this new kingdom is not about a plot of land that you can put a GPS。
on, on the map. It's not a small plot of land in Israel-Palestine. He's explaining, trying。
to expand the vision of the disciples. Hey, God's kingdom is so much bigger. And that's。
why Jesus continues. He said, "But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come。
upon you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all of Judea and Samaria, and。
to the end of the earth." You see, this is so much bigger, right? This is so much bigger。
than struggling for a small piece of land. It is sending us out as individuals who are。
transformed by the grace of God and dot the map of the whole world. From where? From Jerusalem,。
wherever they were at, their comfort zone, their starting point, to all of Judea and。
Samaria and to the end of the earth. And that's what the kingdom is all about. Now you may。
say this is a kingdom project beyond our ability, right? I mean, who can do this, right? I mean,。
if you do a company startup, right, you wouldn't think, "Okay, wow, wow, we have to be a global。
company," right? At least in the beginning period of the company. But that's what Jesus。
has in mind. Go to the end of the earth. Is it even possible, you may say, if I were one。
of the disciples, I would probably ask the question is, "Who am I? Who are we?" Right?。
We're just ordinary people and we're weak and poor, we are limited, we don't have a。
lot of resources, right? At times we do wonder, I mean, how can we do that, right? I mean,。
how many of you have been a Christian for some years, for some time? Yeah? Quite many。
of us, right? And sometimes we don't even have the courage to tell other people we are。
Christians, right? You have moments like this in your workplace, in your school, in your。
family. Sometimes, okay, before meal we have to pray, right? That's the right thing to。
do, right? But sometimes we just do a three second or two second pray, right? We don't。
want people to look at us. We don't want people to see that we are weird, right? We don't。
want to stand out, right? However, that's what Jesus had in mind. To give you power.。
It's not because you have the resource to do it, but God is going to send the Holy Spirit。
to give you power and ability and capacity to do that. To bring the gospel to the end。
of the earth. I remember some years ago I was in another church, in my previous church,。
in the West Coast. I met this very successful businessman in my church, in the West Coast.。
And he is like, I get to know him and he's the most articulate person I've ever known,。
right? He's a multi-billionaire company businessman. And he knows how to talk. He knows how to。
present, you know. You may have watched or listened to some of the talks on TED, right?。
On TED. The TED talk, the professional kind of, you know, presentation. And this businessman。
is one of those people. And he is so gifted and he's so resourceful. But when he came。
to Christ, he became a Christian. And of course he knew a lot of different platforms. He can。
share the gospel, right? In his workplace, with his co-workers and employees. He can。
bring a lot of people to church, right? But, you know, for a long this time, since he became。
a Christian, you know, he didn't even tell his co-workers that he was a Christian. Nobody。
knew in his workplace that he became a Christian and he was saved by grace. Nobody knew for。
a very, very long time. And then, you know, after he has grown so much spiritually, of。
course he has changed, but, you know, we ask him, "Why didn't you tell other people your。
question? Is it your identity, your spiritual identity?" You know why he said? He said,。
"I'm scared. I'm scared. I don't have the guts. I don't have the courage to do it."。
See, that is what is at stake here. Jesus is saying, "You cannot be my witness with。
your own strength. You don't have the guts. You don't have the boldness. You don't have。
the strength to be my witness. However, I'm going to send you my Holy Spirit. God himself。
will live in you." And Jesus knew that his disciples were weak. They were actually defeated。
at the cross, right? They were all scattered. They didn't have the guts to stand up for。
the kingdom. However, everything has changed since Jesus' resurrection. He's going to launch。
a new kingdom. And Jesus knew that we were weak. And God knows it. So God provides the。
resource. The Holy Spirit. God doesn't give us the money. God doesn't give us the ability。
to articulate, to communicate. No. All these things are secondary. But the most important。
thing is in your core, in your life, God's Spirit is giving you the power and courage,。
the ability to share the gospel, to be his witnesses. Let's center on that word. Witness.。
Witness. Witness is someone who's being called upon to the court of law to provide a testimony,。
to tell the truth. And that is our identity, right? That is our identity. So Jesus said,。
"I'm going to provide you with that resource. If you tap into that resource, then you will。
begin to know that you have the power to be my witness." In the beginning of the chapter,。
verses four and five, Jesus said, I probably missed one of the, yeah, I think I did. Anyways,。
Jesus said what? "The power of the Spirit will come upon you." Now, what analogy I can。
use to describe the work of the Holy Spirit. Now, the Holy Spirit, the power of the Holy。
Spirit, it's like gasoline, okay? Gasoline for your car, okay? Many of us have your own。
cars, right? So if you drive a Tesla, some of you drive BMW, very nice car, right? Or。
you walk into our church, welcome. There are nice cars out there, okay? Please don't scratch。
it, don't touch it. They don't belong to me, okay? Nice car, right? But if you have a nice。
car, you don't have gasoline, you can go nowhere. You can wax it, you can clean it, right? But。
the car will not move until you fill it with power and gasoline, or electricity for your。
TV. And that's what the Holy Spirit is all about, is to give you the internal power to。
walk the journey of faith, to be Jesus' witnesses. So what did the disciples do? They did return。
to Jerusalem and obey the commands of Jesus. They stayed in Jerusalem until the Holy Spirit。
comes upon them. And they had the power to preach the gospel. So at the end of this sermon,。
I want to conclude with some of the thoughts, okay? Some of the thoughts are some of the。
homework for you, alright? Now these are your homework, okay? This week, this coming week,。
think about it. Name a person or a face that you know who has not known the name of Jesus.。
Not the question yet, right? Maybe heard about it, maybe never heard about it. Think of a。
name, okay? Not a question. That God places that name, that person, in your heart. Think。
about this person. And then every single week, every single day of this week, set aside five。
minutes of your time. Each day, five minutes, to pray for that person, okay? Just pray for。
that person. That God will work in his heart or her heart, in his life or her life. That。
he or she will be brought to Jesus. So when you pray, pray for boldness as well. Because。
remember what Jesus said to the disciples? "You will be my witness." Jesus didn't say,。
"Okay, somebody else will be my witness." Okay, so you sit back, okay? You sit on the。
lazy boy, alright? You enjoy. No. You step out of your comfort zone and you pray the。
bold prayer. You know a lot of prayers that we utter to God are very safe prayers, right?。
We want to be safe, right? "God, I'm out of money. Give me some money." Right? "God, I'm。
sick. You know, heal me. Recover me." "God, I'm laid off. You know, give me a job." Those。
are very, very safe prayers, legitimate prayers. But those are really, really safe because。
it doesn't challenge you, right? God's mind is bigger than your mind. God's plan is bigger。
than your plan. And God's plan for your life is much bigger than what you can think of.。
Much bigger than your safe prayers. Pray the bold prayer. When you pray this week, every。
single week, pray that God will give you courage to speak. To be a good witness for Christ.。
Pray that God will give me strength, okay? To live for Jesus. Until you pray that prayer,。
you will be a nice car without the gasoline, okay? You need to add some gasoline, alright?。
You need to add the power of the Holy Spirit. Come on, guys. Pray that God will help you。
speak. Help you relate to the other person. Have you ever prayed like that? The risky。
prayer. But it's a prayer full of God's power. It's a prayer full of God's vision. That He's。
going to send you out to be the witness for Christ. So may this be our final prayer. God,。
dear God, give me the power to live for you. Give me the power to be your witness. Give。
me the power, the strength to share the gospel to the other person, your friend. Maybe your。
family member. Someone who God has put in your heart, okay? This is our final prayer.。
Let's all pray like that, alright? I'll give you some time as we play the music background.。
Who is that that God plays in your heart, okay? Maybe someone close to you, maybe someone。
in your workplace. Anyone. God has put a face and a name in your heart. Let's all pray.。
Let's all pray together. At this moment, spend 30 seconds, one minute to pray for that person.。
Dear Jesus, we come before you. We are weak and we are limited. We are small and we feel。
insignificant just like the first disciples felt. And yet we know that you have promised。
the Holy Spirit to be with us. You have sent your Holy Spirit, your power and your ability。
in our hearts to motivate us, to move us so that we step out of our comfort zone to share。
the gospel to other people. And Jesus, we pray that in your grace and your love, transform。
us continuously. Help us to move from fear to courage. Help us not to be timid, but have。
the boldness because we do have the boldness in Christ. So I pray that you will use us。
in this week as we pray about the person you put in our heart. And I pray that we will。
pray the whiskey prayer. We'll do something boldly for your kingdom. Thank you for your。
grace that we belong to your kingdom. All because of what Jesus has done for all of。
us. Thank you for your eternal love and your eternal grace. And I just pray that in this。
week you will be with us, you send us into our Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the end。
of the earth. That we'll be your witnesses. And may you continue to grace us so that our。
church will continue to grow and our lives will continue to grow. Our heart will continue。
to be expanded, expanded with your love and your grace. To love like you do. To let us。
know like you do. To relate to other people like you do. So send us out so that we can。
continue to build your kingdom. To be part of your kingdom project. What a privilege.。
What an opportunity. What a blessing that we can share this project together. So may。
you continue to bless our church, to bless each and every one of us. May we rise above。
our challenges and our issues and our problems. To rely on your power, the power of the Holy。
Spirit to be your witnesses to the end of the earth. So we pray that you will help us.。
And we know and we believe that you do. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
Well may God send you out with peace and courage and the power of the Holy Spirit. Amen. And。
you're welcome to stay with us for a time of fellowship and thank you for A-Peng for。
preparing good food for us. So you can stay here or stay outside in the cafe and we can。
get to know one another and build a church together. Amen. See you next week.。
(soft piano music)。
