(speaking in foreign language)。
- Good morning, brothers and sisters.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Sorry, let's read Ephesians 3, 7 to 13.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Of this gospel, I was made a minister。
according to the gift of God's grace,。
which was given me by the working of his power.。
To me, though I am the very least of all the saints,。
this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles。
the unsearchable riches of Christ,。
and to bring the light to everyone。
what is planned of the mystery hidden for ages in God,。
who created all things.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So that through the church and the manifold。
wisdom of God that might now be made known。
to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places.。
This was according to the internal purpose。
that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord,。
in whom we have boldness and access with confidence。
through our faith in him.。
So I ask you not to lose heart over what I'm suffering。
for you, which is your glory.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And have you ever woke up in the middle of the night。
with your full heart of fear and anxiety?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So maybe you're worried about work,。
maybe money, your health,。
feeling like maybe you are not good enough,。
scared about how people look at you。
and maybe look down upon you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
I've been there, I've been tried this before.。
Sometimes I woke up in the middle of the night。
in such pressure and then I'm even stressed out。
in my dreams.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
A lot of people look strong and busy outside,。
but deep down they are living in constant fear.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
We don't just fear about our consistence.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And at the deepest level, people are actually afraid of God.。
We know instinctively that God is holy and we are not.。
After Adam sinned, his first reaction wasn't to run to God,。
it was to hide from him.。
People today do the same thing.。
We use success and business to cover up the emptiness。
of being separated from God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But there is the amazing part of gospel。
is God doesn't wait for us to become worthy or perfect。
before he lets us become close to him.。
While we are still sinner,。
Christ already opened the way for us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Ephesians 3, 7 to 13 shows us that a person。
who used to tremble in fear before God。
can now come to his presence with complete confidence。
and it all because of Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Today, we will look at three things from this passage.。
The number one thing that we will cover today。
is by grace, no longer fear our unworthiness.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
I became a servant of the gospel。
according to the gift of God, of God's grace.。
The word minister or servant in the original text。
means a servant or a person who serves.。
Paul did not begin by emphasizing I'm an apostle.。
Instead, and a stress that he was a servant of the gospel。
and this is very important because in ministry,。
the greatest danger is not weakness, but pride.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So Paul understood clearly that his ministry。
was not based on his own qualification,。
but on God's free and unmerited grace.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Paul had once persecuted the church。
and arrested Christian and was even glad。
when Stephen was stoned to death.。
Think about it, on the road of Damascus,。
Paul was not going to worship God, but to arrest Christians.。
He thought he was serving God,。
but in reality, he was opposing him.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But on that road, the rising Christ。
took the initiative to find him.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Why are you persecuting me?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Only then did Paul truly realize that he had been doing.。
That is grace.。
Grace is not man seeking God,。
but God actively seeking and saving。
those who were once his enemies.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Paul said, "I am the very least of all the saints."。
He was not pretending to be humble。
or trying to put in on a spiritual show.。
These are the words of someone who truly knew himself.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Paul knew that if Christ had not stopped him on that road,。
he would never ever have returned to God by himself.。
The more he understood grace,。
the more he realized how unworthy he was.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Today, many Christians are constantly fixated。
on their own unworthiness.。
"My education is not good enough.。
"I'm not eloquent.。
"My life has too many problems."。
They say, "When I become more mature,。
"maybe one day I will serve.。
"Or when I understand the Bible better,。
"then I will got involved in church."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But in the Bible, there was not even one single person。
whom God used only after they have become perfect.。
God does not use people because they are already complete,。
but because Christ is complete.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So God accepts unworthy people。
and uses unworthy people in Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So this passage also gives great hope。
to those who have failed.。
Some people feel, "I have failed too many times.。
"I have let God down too much.。
"God must have given up on me."。
We believe God can forgive others,。
but we find it hard to believe He will forgive us too.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
If God did not give up on a person like Paul,。
then we today are not beyond His grace either.。
The greatest hope for the gospel is this.。
God saves not the pretty good people,。
but the real sinners.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So what truly makes us stand firm is not ourselves,。
but the grace of Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
By the cross, no longer living in separation.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
To preach to the Gentiles。
the unsearchable riches of Christ,。
these unsearchable riches do not refer。
merely to material blessing,。
but to God's salvation,。
the forgiveness of sins,。
sanctification, and presence of Christ.。
Christ is not a poor savior.。
He is a rich God, and what He gives is true abundance.。
We may not lack material things,。
but we often fail to enjoy the riches we have in Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Paul then speaks about mystery.。
As mentioned before, this mystery。
is not something mysterious,。
but a truth that was hidden for ages。
and has now been revealed.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
What is the truth?。
The Gentiles and Jews become one body in Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
We consider this quite normal today,。
but in the first century, it was a shocking declaration.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
In the first century, there was a huge divide。
between Jews and Gentiles.。
Jews regarded Gentiles as unclean and far from God.。
They were even unwilling to enter a Gentile's house.。
Some Jew would rather take a long detour。
than pass through Samaria.。
For a Gentile to be saved,。
they first have to become a Jew,。
be circumcised, and keep the law.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So there was a deep war between people,。
a war of ethnicity, a war of culture,。
a war of religion, and a war of identity.。
But the cross demolished the dividing wall of hostility.。
Those who were once enemies are now in Christ's one family.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
The deeper meaning is found in verse 10.。
God did this so that through the church。
and the manifold wisdom of God。
might now be made known to the rulers。
and authorities in the heavenly places.。
When a once proud Jew and a former idol-worshiping Gentiles。
they worship together, love each other,。
and serve each other in the church.。
Even the angels are watching attentively。
and exclaimingly in amazement.。
This is the manifold wisdom of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So church is no longer merely a religion organization.。
It's a living testimony of God's redemptive wisdom。
displayed in the universe.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Brothers and sisters,。
this world is becoming increasingly divided。
between nations, between ethnic groups, between individuals.。
People attack each other。
because of cultural and background differences.。
There are conflicts everywhere.。
Online, I myself used to argue。
and even sometimes curse at others in the internet.。
There are conflicts even at home。
and it's becoming harder and harder。
for people to trust one another.。
But the church should be the place。
where the world sees the gospel.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
The church is not a social club or interest group。
where similar people gather.。
The true church consists of people。
who never naturally be together。
yet have become one body because of Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
There are people of different cultural backgrounds,。
different levels of education, different personality,。
yet because of Christ,。
they accept one another and love each other.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
The world will ask, why can these people love each other?。
The answer is not because they are all wonderful people,。
but because of Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So when the church lives in such unity,。
not only will this world see the reality of gospel,。
even the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms。
will see the unsearchable wisdom of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
What truly unites us is not ourselves,。
but the cross of Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
By Christ, we can boldly come to the Father.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Don't take this statement for granted today.。
In Old Testament time,。
people could not casually approach God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
When God revealed himself on Mount Sinai,。
everyone was terrified,。
and only Moses was allowed to represent them before God.。
Later, in the temple, only the high priests。
could carefully enter the most holy place。
to offer sacrifices,。
because the sinner could not bear God's holiness.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But now, because of Jesus,。
we can come boldly into God's presence.。
This boldness is not because we have become worthy,。
but because Jesus has accomplished everything.。
Jesus' precious blood has removed our sins。
and torn the veil of most holy place.。
The book of Hebrews says,。
"Let us then with confidence。
"draw near to the throne of the grace.。
"It's not by our good work,。
"but by the merit of Christ."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Many Christians still live in the state of hiding from God.。
As soon as they sin, they will not pray.。
Then when they become weak。
and they start staying away from church meeting。
because they feel God must be very disappointed in me.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
But gospel does not say you have no sin.。
It says Christ has already borne your sin for you.。
Therefore, today you do not come to God。
based on your own performance,。
but based on Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
We can remain bold even in suffering.。
Paul continues,。
"So I ask you not to lose heart。
"over what I'm suffering for you,。
"which is your glory."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
At that time, Paul was in prison.。
Yet instead of asking the Ephesian church。
to feel sorry for him,。
he said, "This suffering were their glory."。
Why?。
Because his suffering allowed the gospel。
to reach Gentiles and God's mystery to be unfolded.。
The world saw chains and shame,。
but Paul saw God's glory and benefit of the church.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
This brings tremendous comfort to us today.。
Many Christian easily become discouraged in trials.。
Financial burdens, family problems,。
difficulties at work, rebellious children,。
health issues, so on.。
We often ask, "God, why me?。
"Why do others have so easy life。
"while I struggle so much?"。
(speaking in foreign language)。
The gospel does not promise a smooth and easy life.。
It promised us that even in the darkness trial,。
we can still come boldly to our heavenly father.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
The sign of God's presence is not necessarily。
a smooth environment,。
but the presence of peace, hope,。
and the ability to call on his name。
even in the midst of hardship.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
True strength is not grinding our teeth。
and enduring by ourselves,。
but coming to God through Christ even in our weakness.。
Just as Paul experienced in prison.。
Often the most difficult times。
become the times when we draw closest to God。
and experience his great power most clearly.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
What truly makes us bold and fearless。
is not ourselves, but Christ.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Brothers and sisters,。
let's honestly ask ourselves this question today.。
Am I still living in the fear of not being good enough,。
afraid to serve or fully commit myself?。
Am I still living in separation,。
having barriers with brothers and sisters。
or distance from God?。
Am I still living in discouragement because of trials,。
afraid of the future, afraid of my circumstance,。
afraid I won't make it?。
The gospel declares to us today,。
in Christ, we can be bold and fearless.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Come to God right now,。
no matter how much fear in your heart.。
Quiet yourself and come boldly。
to the throne of grace by faith.。
Tell God all your burdens.。
If you have conflict with a brother or sister,。
take the initiative to seek reconciliation。
so that the church can be a testimony of unity。
in this divided world.。
Stand firm in the midst of trials,。
entrust the difficulties you are facing to God。
and ask Lord to help you not lose heart,。
but instead, see how even your suffering。
can become God's glory.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Let's pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Heavenly Father, we are unworthy people,。
but in Jesus Christ, you have opened a way for us.。
Help us, please help us to look more to Christ。
so that in our weakness and fear,。
we may still come to you.。
Help us to believe that you are sovereign,。
even in trials.。
Let the church become witness of unity。
in this broken world.。
In the name of Jesus.。
