acceptable in your sight in Christ and pray. Well if you have your Bible or Bible app。
please turn to the first very first book of the Bible the book of Genesis we're。
going to continue our Apostles Creek series and we come to the third section。
of the Apostles Creek I believe in the Holy Spirit. Now the first first。
occurrence or first appearance of this spirit can be found in the first book of。
the Bible the book of Genesis. Are you ready? Genesis 1. In the beginning not in。
the PowerPoint but in your Bible. In the beginning God created the heavens and。
the earth now the earth was formless and empty darkness was over the surface of。
the deep and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. The Spirit of。
God is hovering over the water. That's the first encounter of the Holy Spirit. I。
think correctly translated to should be the Spirit of God instead of the wind of。
God. Hebrew sounds pretty interesting because the pronunciation。
gives you the meaning of the word sometimes. So in Hebrew spirit you have。
to repeat after me okay even you have your mask on even better if you have your mask on.。
Spirit in Hebrew is "Ruach". Yeah exactly yeah exactly that is the Spirit that's the。
wind of God the life force of God. He was the first created agent of the entire。
universe. Last Tuesday there was a big news around the world. Have you ever。
heard of it? The James Webb Space Telescope sent back the first set of。
images from the deep space. You know how the story goes right in I think the end。
of 2021 NASA launched the James Webb Telescope into deep deep space and then。
travel for you know some time and then last Tuesday beaming back the first set。
of image and what we see in the images are lights probably the very first light。
since Big Bang. Those lights the James Webb Telescope captures probably。
travel already traveled 13 point some billion years to reach the telescope the。
camera so it was very very amazing it's just mind-blowing to think about how big。
the universe is. Hundred years ago we thought there was only one galaxy in the。
cosmos now we know there were so many so many so many others galaxies unnamed。
galaxies haven't seen before right this is how big and how vast the universe is。
and behind it is the Creator and behind it is the Spirit of God so we come to。
the third part the Holy Spirit so we have two two questions to tackle it。
says I believe in the Holy Spirit first question is who is the Holy Spirit。
second what does the Holy Spirit do in your life if you profess to be a。
question and you believe in God if you believe in Jesus the Holy Spirit is in。
you and it should be working in your life in your heart so first question is。
who is the Holy Spirit the Holy Spirit is the third person of the Trinity the。
third person of the Trinity now please understand the Bible is actually a。
library there were 66 books in this library the whole Bible is a huge。
library there are many different genres different types of literatures different。
stories and poetries and poem and genealogies and records of history and。
all that stuff all right so the Bible is actually a library from the first book。
Genesis to the last book that we have the book of Revelation in the New。
Testament all together there were so many different voices and as God。
unfolds his revelation to mankind to all of us it unfolds it progressively so in。
the Old Testament we don't know much about the Holy Spirit because it's not。
unfolded yet until we come to the New Testament and we see more clearly who。
Holy Spirit is all about and who he is now the clearest statement about the。
identity of Holy Spirit is found in John 14 as we read this passage I want you to。
answer this question how many persons how many persons are there in the。
passage right John 14 all right now now about the context okay what is what's。
going on here Jesus is speaking to his disciples it was the last Passover meal。
last dinner together the Jewish Passover before he goes to the cross and die on。
the cross for the sin of humankind and to give us the salvation right so before。
before the Good Friday he was speaking to the disciples around the table around。
the Passover table and he was about to leave and he was about to be crucified。
for our sins and will be arise again from the tomb and will be ascended to。
the Father reigning as the King of Kings so before all of this events Christ。
Jesus was speaking to his disciples teaching them what it means to follow。
him this is the last evening Jesus spent with disciples around table of Passover。
so preparing the disciples to continue his work once he left once he ascended。
to the Father and reign forever in heaven the work of mission has to be。
continued with his disciples his disciples need to pick up the baton and。
go on with what is left to be done about the mission of Jesus so 1415 here he。
says Jesus speaking to the disciples speaking to the church speaking to us if。
you love me you will keep my commandments and I will ask the Father。
and he will give you another helper to be with you forever even the spirit of。
truth whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows。
him you know him for he dwells with you and will be in you now how many persons。
are there how many persons are there if you love me right speaking to the。
disciples me being Jesus himself right and then the Father and he says I will。
send another helper and other assistant so to speak and other helper to be with。
you at least three persons are being spoken off here well right minus the。
disciples so the three personas three persons here now first of all I want to。
clarify love in the Bible is usually not a feeling love in the Bible usually is。
not a sentiment where our cultural script is teaching us love is all about。
you know how you feel about yourself how you feel about your lover or somebody。
else right it's always the emotional kind of you know feeling that is。
defining love right but love is not generally not a sentiment in the Bible。
and what is it the love in the biblical culture is the term love is often used。
between a great king and a smaller king when they make covenant together when。
they make treaty to treaties together or diplomatic relationship they enter into。
that relationship that agreement together and they sign some contracts。
right there were some terms in the covenant there's some terms in the。
international treaty and then you get a copy I get a copy you put your copy in。
the temple I put my copy in my temple and then the terms of the covenant。
often uses the term love that you have to love me and I have to love you now。
think about in political terms right if I'm the United States enter into some。
sort of international diplomatic relationship with another country right。
they're using the terms love right a king is loving another king and then a。
king is loving back the other king you think love in this sort of relationship。
is about romantic feelings no right they never really fall in love with each。
other right but love means in this kind of context loyalty political alliance。
political allegiance it's kind of like when you when you sing national anthems。
right that's sort of you know sentiment it's a political allegiance so Jesus。
said if you love me doesn't mean oh I feel Jesus you know so warm and so。
comforting well of course that's one of the consequence right but mainly it's。
all about political alliance you are my ally and we're gonna work together you。
are my political partner and you got to pledge your allegiance to me and I'm。
faithful to you so if you love me you will keep my commandments and I will ask。
the Father he will give you an other helper to be with you forever now you。
notice there were at least three persons here and other helper speaking of the。
Spirit the Holy Spirit to be with you and the adjective describing the Spirit。
is Spirit of truth the biblical truth the gospel truth he will tells you he。
will tell you the truth of the gospel he will speak to you the truth of God。
whom the world cannot receive and he will remain with you and in you so here。
is one of the clearest statements about who the Holy Spirit is it's the third。
person of the Trinity with the Father and the Son and you all of a sudden you。
remember the song how great is our God Spirit comes second right right how does。
it go father spirit son right well you say that's not right right it should be。
father son spirit right shouldn't it what do you think did Chris Tomlin。
make a mistake no I think I think it's poetry right so。
spirit can come second in that song but in the Bible the unfolding revelation as。
the grand story unfolds we have the Father and the Son Jesus and then the。
Holy Spirit who came another clear statement is Matthew 28 Matthew 28 the。
last word Jesus spoke to his disciples before he goes up into heaven in。
Ascension 28 18 Jesus came and said to the disciples all authority in heaven。
and on earth have been given to me go therefore and make disciples of all。
nations this is what the church should be doing all of us should be working。
together to bring people into a living relationship with Jesus who makes。
disciples of all nations baptizing them in the name of the Father the Son and。
the Holy Spirit in teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you。
and behold I will be with you always to the end of the ages you see here name of。
the Father the Son and the Holy Spirit name is a singular or plural in Greek it。
should have been the names of the Father the Son and the Holy Spirit here you。
know there's no textual variant or anything like that all the manuscripts。
are saying in the name singular of the Father Son and the Holy Spirit right so。
it's only one name but there are three persons being named the Father the Son。
and the Holy Spirit in the old days when you know people trying to try to。
understand what the Bible says they use special terms so one of the old terms。
going back to several hundred years ago they use the word God had you know God。
had God had doesn't mean God has a head God has the old theological term back in。
the days of John Wycliffe you heard about Wycliffe Bible Translation Society。
is still doing some translation work around the world so John Wycliffe was a。
guy in the 14th century several hundred years ago he came up with the term God。
had God had actually means theologically is the essence of God God himself the。
self of God God had and he was trying to use this term to try to capture what is。
going on here there is no grammatical errors in Greek however the statement。
there in the name singular of Father and Son the Holy Spirit is the theological。
statement speaking to us with just one God but there are three persons in that。
God had right not going back to Chris Tomlin song there's word God had right。
God have three in one do you realize that there was pretty strange to our。
contemporary language right we don't use God had anymore right we don't pray to。
the God had and and all the other stuff but you know you need to understand。
there's a theological background to it God had three in one so the name singular。
of the Father Son and Spirit so right here the concise statement of what the。
doctrine of Trinity is is this so you repeat after me the Father's God the Son。
is God the Spirit is God but the Father is not the Son the Son is not the Spirit。
and the Spirit is not the Father there's not three gods but one God but one God。
in three persons you got it all right let's do it together the Father's God。
the Son is God the Spirit is God and the Father is not the Son the Son is not the。
Spirit the Spirit is not the Father how many gods are there there's only one God。
however one God in three persons right one personal God and three different。
persons it's pretty hard to for us to understand because we're talking about。
the God had the self of God right God self is way beyond our rationality。
right it's not irrational it's trans-rational right it's beyond our。
intellect I think Augustine puts puts it pretty well he used a human analogy of。
love to explain the mystery of Trinity he's a thing about love right there are。
always at least three aspects of love the person who loves the person who is。
loved and love itself all right pretty interesting but no one is greater than。
another or the sum of the other two the lover the one being loved and the love。
itself right God is like a community right so he created us that's why we。
have community now who is the Holy Spirit is the third person of the。
Trinity now it comes to us what does he do what does it do in us now I think so。
often in our contemporary debate or a struggle with understanding who who the。
what the Spirit does sometimes we so bogged down into some sort of tunnel。
vision that the Spirit all he does or explicitly mainly what he does is to。
give us the gift some spiritual supernatural gift of speaking in tongues。
right have you ever heard of you know people who speak in tongues speaking in tongues。
being a sign who we do have okay all right that's cool someone pointing at。
you speaking in tongues meaning you know there was really such such such thing。
someone who is gifted to speak some of the languages maybe known language or。
unknown language back in the days when I was in seminary I had three roommates。
Korean roommates we are all in the same class same school I remember one of my。
friends he speaks tongue speaks in tongue he speaks in tongue every single。
morning when he does the devotion the quiet time so you know I know a little。
bit what Korean sounds like all right so definitely he was not speaking in。
Korean he was speaking in some non Korean language right not English right。
not Chinese not some other languages so so one day I'm not on the door and ask。
him what are you doing he said oh I'm having a communion with God right。
speaking in tongue speaking in some other mysterious language right some。
spiritual language now that could be one sign of the work of the Holy Spirit but。
I think we are so truncated sometimes or we do all the works of the Holy Spirit。
into one thing right because it's so explicit so we center on it oh you have。
the Holy Spirit you have to speak in tongue I don't think that's that is。
really biblical teaching the work of the Holy Spirit is so embracing there were。
so many things we can experience the Holy Spirit in different ways and let's。
go back to the word about Holy Spirit when Jesus was speaking to his disciples。
he says I will send or the Father will give you and other helper。
procreators procreators it's being translated in many different ways helper。
counselor advisor strengthener encourager advocate or any other many。
different translation but what is clear is that the Spirit is he not it the。
Spirit is he as a person he speaks he relates and he must be obeyed he must be。
loved and we lay the back along with the Father and the Son now so often we think。
of the Word of God or the work of the Spirit we often think of it in some。
truncated way we always think that okay the Word of God is simply just you know。
sprinkling you know rose petals along the way and you know tells you every。
single morning how great you are how wonderful you are and fearfully made you。
are and all that stuff and to comfort you and to be with you you know it's。
just repeating the same message message every every every single day now。
nothing wrong with that nothing wrong with that but you know if you think。
about it that's if that is what God does right if you reduce the work of God the。
work of Holy Spirit to just this tiny bit of praising you or uplifting you or。
building up yourself right you get numb after one or two days right have you。
ever relate to someone or your lover or your boyfriend or a girlfriend or your。
spouse every single morning we just praise you we just honor you and and。
tell you how good you are and how wonderful you are you know you get bored。
after a day or two right well give it a month or two you definitely get bored I。
think I think the Bible present to us the Holy Spirit God himself to be on the。
side of who you could become more than the side of who you are right now you。
want a God that is on the side of who you could become more so than who you。
are right now if you reduce what God does in your life simply frees you into。
what you are right now it will stunt your growth as a man or woman God。
doesn't want to do that the Spirit doesn't do that so we come down to what。
the Spirit really what what he really does in your life is to transform you to。
change you gradually sometimes radically to become who you could become not who。
you are right now so I want you to listen to the Spirit the Spirit is。
talking to us every single day we make in us every single day reminding us the。
biblical truth of the gospel reminding us the the word of the scriptures so。
that we can be growing into what we could become Ephesians 5 talking about。
this the work of the Spirit now listen carefully 515 look carefully how you。
walk not as unwise but as wise making the best use of time because the days。
are evil therefore do not be foolish but understand what the will of the Lord is。
do not get drunk with wine and beef but be filled with the Spirit talking to one。
another addressing to one another in Psalms in hymns in spiritual songs。
singing making melodies to the Lord with your heart giving thanks always and。
everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ what does the。
Spirit do it's an analogy between wine and the work of the Holy Spirit now we。
all get drunk at times right I mean we if you never maybe you will okay you。
know I'll get getting drunk is being under the heavy influence of alcohol of。
the wine you're not in control anymore or at least you are not primarily in。
control the alcohol is taking control over you that is getting drunk right how。
do you tell someone's getting drunk you know what is the biggest influence at。
that point for that person right is it wine or himself or herself the analogy。
is the work of the Holy Spirit is giving yielding to the control and influence of。
the Holy Spirit more and more in our lives when the Spirit reminds you。
something you yield to it you obey it that is getting drunk right getting。
influenced by the Spirit and that should be our Christian spiritual journey yes。
we've we walk and we stumble and we fall at times but you know in the long in a。
big scheme of things we should be giving more influence to the Spirit instead of。
our sinful self right have the Spirit has the Spirit talked to you recently I。
think the Spirit is very active reminding us right how to live a life。
that is pleasing to God how to live out the Christian character right more and。
more influence of the Holy Spirit on our lives and we walk walking with the。
Spirit right walking according to the will of the Spirit let me give you a。
note another analogy I was sitting here singing songs and and all that and I。
remember the first time I taught someone how to drive a stick shift how to drive。
a stick shift back in the more than 10 years ago I was in Israel and we got a。
rental car and most of the rental car back then was manual transmission so I。
was the only one who could drive it right so I was with my team members so。
we checked into a Airbnb hotel motel or whatever so we stayed there and then in。
the evening after sunset one of the one of the girls in my team everyone is is。
it everyone is a driver everyone has driver license everyone knows how to。
drive but only the automatic transmission right that sucks right so。
so the girl girl asked me hey you know what I want to learn how to drive a。
stick shift I said yeah sure because it's a rental car right you break it you。
know you can return it right so so I go out with her and some of the members and。
we just drive around in the parking lot first gear second gear first gear second。
gear and let's start the engine and start again start engine start again no。
over the entire process you know almost three hours I was circling in the。
parking lot so I'm gonna in parking lot and then uh you know the key for her to。
learn manual transmission what's the key it's to listen to me right just do。
exactly what I say right well there are times you know her no automatic。
transmission mind kicks in right she would drive the stick shift like an。
automatic transmission right I said no that's not right no you have to correct。
yourself right you can't think in a different way so in three hours I。
successfully I taught her how to drive a manual transmission - how wonderful I am。
right three hours right and then we came back from from Israel and then she。
actually brought a stick shift vehicle and she enjoys it right our relationship。
with the Holy Spirit it's pretty much the same listen to the Spirit teaching。
us correcting us guiding us changing us then our mindset will change our。
behavior will change our hands and our feet and our eyes coordination will。
change because the Spirit's voice is to condition us so that we can follow the。
goodwill of the Father so let's do that I have an ending prayer right here we're。
gonna end with this prayer together all right I want you to recite this prayer。
with me all right in your heart or verbally and let's do that then we'll。
close in prayer dear God fill us with all joy and peace as we believe in you。
Holy Spirit empower our lives to produce your fruit of love joy peace patience。
kindness goodness faithfulness gentleness and self-control let's all。
pray together Father we give you thanks because the Spirit dwells in us because。
of the Spirit speaking and teaching and guiding us 24/7 Lord our prayer is that。
we'll be sensitive to your voice to listen and you to your voice thank you。
for remaining in our lives and transforming ourself and we pray that。
gradually in our Christian journey we'll experience you more and more may the。
Holy Spirit continue to be the growing influence in our lives teaching and。
guiding our ways.。
