Okay. Okay.。
Before we begin, I'd like to ask everyone a question.。
Do any of you pray for the brothers and sisters。
who serve on Sundays, especially this weekend?。
If you do, I want to thank you.。
Because every time I give a sermon,。
I am filled with fear and anxiety.。
Let alone today I'm preaching in English.。
Lord, have mercy on me.。
Today I hope to discuss Romans chapter 12, 1 to 2 with you.。
And I encourage everyone to reflect more deeply on the message within.。
Let's pray.。
Dear Lord, our God, we thank and praise you.。
We dedicate this hour to you.。
Anoint the lips of your child.。
Let your words be spoken with power and authority.。
May the Holy Spirit work in people's heart as they listen to you.。
In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.。
The book of Romans is a very important book in the Bible.。
Well, you might say, like, every book in the Bible is important, right?。
By important, I mean that the book of Romans。
has had a profound impact on generations of theologians.。
The theologian and philosopher Augustine in 386 AD。
repented after reading Romans 13, 13 to 14,。
and later became a renowned preacher.。
His writings still carry great weight today.。
The theologian and religious reformer Martin Luther in November 1515。
taught the main point of Romans is not about how a righteous God punishes the unrighteous,。
rather that God declares people righteous through their faith in him.。
This doctrine was the driving force behind his reform movement.。
Before we dive into Romans 12, 1 to 2,。
let me briefly summarize what was discussed in Romans chapter 1 to 11.。
In summary, Paul explained the basic teachings of Christianity,。
emphasizing that both Jews, who seem to have a higher status and were proud,。
and Gentiles, who seem to have a lower social status,。
were both God's people justified through faith in Christ,。
not by observing the Old Testament law or rituals.。
Now, as we come to Romans 12, verses 1 to 2,。
serve as a turning point from the previous chapters.。
The apostle Paul transitions from explaining the true meaning of the gospel。
to teaching believers how to live out their justified lives through faith in their daily conduct.。
Title for today, "The Perfect Sacrifice."。
Let's start by reciting Romans 12, 1 to 2.。
"I appear to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God,。
to present your bodies as a living sacrifice,。
holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.。
Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind,。
that by testing you may discern what is the will of God,。
what is good and acceptable and perfect."。
When I read this passage, I could easily relate it to how Paul felt at the time.。
Since 2008, our family, along with many brother and sister,。
have gone on mission trips to China.。
We almost go every summer.。
But we haven't been able to go since 2019.。
But my heart always yearns to see my brothers and sister in China.。
I always think about, like, how they are doing.。
I really hope to have the opportunity again to visit them,。
ask them about their well-being, their gatherings,。
and whether they are still holding on to their faith.。
Similarly, in the beginning of chapter 12,。
the apostle Paul, out of godly compassion and love for the brothers and sisters,。
Paul encourages believers on how to practically live out life as a Christian.。
Because the church was divided by their differences,。
they forgot they are following the same God.。
In Ephesians 4.1, it says,。
"I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord,。
urge you to walk in the manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called."。
The teachings in the Bible are not just meant for reading or acquiring knowledge.。
The ultimate purpose of these teachings is to know God and to put His words into practice,。
to present your bodies as a living sacrifice.。
In the Old Testament, sacrifices were generally about selecting, preparing, offering,。
and literally sacrificing animals to please God in religious rituals.。
There were various types of sacrifices, such as burnt offering,。
grain offering, peace offering, sin offerings, and trespass offerings,。
each with its own preparations, certain elements, rules, procedures,。
and they each had their specific purpose, all of which are necessary.。
However, what Paul mentions here is different.。
It is a living sacrifice.。
Before we talk about living sacrifice,。
I want to first talk about the bodies mentioned in the Scripture.。
The word bodies in the original text refers to the whole person.。
This includes the body, the mind, spirit, and thoughts.。
Furthermore, the word bodies is not one physical body, but rather many bodies,。
a community of faith, a community of faith offering themselves as one sacrifice.。
When a person believes in Jesus, it is indeed an act of offering.。
A person who accepts Jesus as their Lord Savior,。
acknowledge his or her sins, surrenders himself before God,。
declares that their life no longer belongs to themselves.。
They are no longer their own masters,。
and they ultimately choose to recognize Jesus as his or her own personal Savior.。
From then on, I no longer live, but Jesus lives in me.。
This declaration is a response to the Gospel.。
Romans 8:11, "If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you,。
he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies。
through his spirit who dwells in you."。
To offer our bodies as a living sacrifice,。
the sacrifice mentioned in Romans 12 is made possible。
not by whether a person is willing or not to offer themselves,。
but by the prerequisite that Jesus first offer himself as the perfect sacrifice,。
accomplishing salvation.。
It is the precious blood of Jesus that cleanses us from all sins,。
enables people to be born again, become holy, and be called righteous.。
It is because Jesus first offered himself as a sacrifice。
so that people can become a living sacrifice.。
Hebrew 1010, "And by that will we have been sanctified。
through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all."。
Reflecting back on the days of my college years,。
when I memorized Romans 12 1-2,。
I was only thinking about how mission-driven I felt。
and how determined I wanted to be a good Christian,。
offering myself as a sacrifice.。
The motivation behind offering myself came from my own selfishness.。
It makes me feel good to think this way.。
However, I didn't truly understand the focus is not on me.。
It is not about how much I love God。
and willing to offer myself as a living sacrifice,。
but on how much God loved me that he sent his one and only son, Jesus Christ,。
to be the sacrificial lamb so that I can live.。
To offer our bodies as a living sacrifice is a true and proper worship。
because it is a proper response to Jesus' sacrificial offering.。
For those who follow the law, it is the most natural response to the gospel,。
a response of gratitude to God,。
and a reasonable response of someone who understands the grace once received.。
Verse 2.。
"Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind."。
This present age has its own thoughts and lifestyle,。
which believers who have received God's grace must discern.。
Therefore, the meaning of "do not be conformed to this world"。
is that we must be cautious and not let these trends and values worldview shape our lives.。
Recently, during a gathering, a friend mentioned that because of his two daughters,。
he often watches Disney Channel.。
Lately, he noticed an increased portrayal of non-traditional family relationships in the program.。
According to him, the portrayal of these families and their interaction in these programs。
are no different from traditional families,。
except for the fact that they don't necessarily have a father and a mother.。
They seem to subtly normalize non-traditional relationships.。
A few years ago, in Canada, a 46-year-old father with seven children。
discovered that he was actually a woman.。
His wife could not tolerate his lifestyle, so he left his wife and his seven children.。
After leaving his family, this 6'4" tall man with his hair tied up and wearing a custom-made dress。
transformed himself into an 8-year-old girl.。
He advertised himself online and sought adoption.。
Not having to wait long, he was adopted by an elderly couple.。
He now lived with them and behaved like one of their grandchildren.。
He and her grandchildren spent time coloring, playing with the toy kitchen, playing toys.。
One day, one of the grandchildren of this elderly couple wanted to be an older sister.。
So she asked this 46-year-old man to be two years younger.。
So this 6'4" tall little girl changed his age again,。
played the role of a younger sibling, and settled at the age of six.。
I remember a long time ago when I was picking up my daughter from school.。
I saw a little girl waiting for her parents.。
I casually asked her, "Your mom is coming to pick you up?"。
She looked at me and did not answer.。
Later, I found out that she didn't have a mom because she has two fathers.。
When I returned home, I thought for a long time.。
I realized that I should never assume that every child's family has a father and a mother。
because there are so many combinations nowadays,。
such as two fathers, two mothers, one father, multiple mothers,。
one father, one mother, or no parent at all.。
This is the current situation of our world's family relationships.。
I don't know how many different combinations will emerge in the future.。
And I often wonder, where does the next generation's concept of family stand?。
What kind of world we are living in right now?。
As a Christian, how would you respond?。
As a Christian parent, how would you address the questions your children ask?。
If you are still solely focused on how to push your children to get into a good school,。
studying advanced courses at an early age,。
engaging in various activities like music, painting, chess, calligraphy,。
eating organic food, don't eat any fast food,。
I think you need to reconsider.。
I'm not trying to scare you, for I am a mother myself,。
but I genuinely want to know,。
when was the last time you considered your child's character?。
The world urges us to put all this effort into making our child the smartest,。
the most successful, most high-achieving individual.。
But sadly, we turn a blind eye to their heart.。
As Christian parents, we need to pray.。
We need to seek God for wisdom.。
We need to listen. We need to reconsider.。
Sometimes when my daughter talks to me,。
she brings up topics that I never thought about before.。
And I don't always know the answer or know how to respond.。
In those moments, I pray in my heart, asking the Lord for wisdom,。
hoping at least not to say anything wrong.。
Most of the time, I'm speechless.。
I'm just there to listen and try to understand more.。
I don't know if you have watched the UV YouTube channel recently,。
for I have done an interview with Pastor Julie when I was in Hong Kong.。
If you haven't watched it, I encourage you to watch it if you understand Cantonese.。
In the interview, Pastor Julie provided a few reminders.。
And one of them was that Christians are the people of the book.。
Pastor Julie said she has a desire to teach lay people Hebrew。
and make theological education more accessible。
so that Christians are equipped to face future challenges.。
She hoped to help believers deepen their study of the Bible。
and even be knowledgeable enough to feed those around them.。
2 Timothy 3:16 says, "All scripture is breathed out by God。
and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction,。
and for training in righteousness."。
Teaching shows you the path to walk on.。
Reproof shows you where you have gotten off the path.。
Correction shows you how to get back on the path.。
Training in righteousness shows you how to stay on the path.。
The foundation of Christian faith is God's Word.。
Christian parents have asked me how we can respond to current issues in various matters.。
Unfortunately, we have to admit that we just don't have all the answers.。
So how can we teach our children in this day and age?。
My brothers and sisters, when facing the uncertain future。
and the challenges of this world,。
remember that only God's Word is your greatest help.。
When you read the Bible, you may not understand or feel its significance.。
But day by day as you read, study the Bible,。
you are accumulating your knowledge.。
You are allowing God to speak to you,。
allowing the Holy Spirit to transform your heart.。
And sure, you will slowly store up ammunition for the battle.。
Only by drawing near to God,。
allowing the Holy Spirit to renew and transform our hearts,。
give us the ability to discern good and evil.。
Can we stand firm in this turbulent and unsettled world?。
I remember a scene from a drama series I watched when I was young.。
A person asked his jewel of friends how to distinguish between real and fake diamonds.。
The person explained that when he was young,。
his grandfather would let him play with real diamonds.。
As he grew older, his grandfather added fake diamonds into the mix,。
and he could immediately tell the difference.。
Do you have the ability to discern the truth, brothers and sisters?。
For those of you who have believed in the law for maybe two, four, or more than ten years,。
how well do you grasp the truth of the Bible?。
How much time have you set aside in your daily life in God's Word?。
Romans 12, 1-2.。
I appeal to you, fearful brothers,。
by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living sacrifice,。
holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.。
Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind,。
that by testing you may discern what is the will of God,。
what is good and acceptable and perfect.。
The perfect sacrifice.。
Jesus has already offered himself as the perfect sacrifice,。
accomplishing it once and for all.。
How will you respond?。
How should we as brother and sister, a community of faith, respond together?。
A living sacrifice refers to the regenerate and save life。
that is willing to live a life worthy of salvation received,。
offering oneself fully in response to the grace of salvation that we do not deserve.。
This is indeed the most reasonable and appropriate response to the gospel we have received.。
As Christian, we need to hold on to God tightly and strive to study his Word diligently,。
for it is good through God's Word that our minds are renewed,。
giving us the ability to discern what is good and pleasing to him,。
that by testing you may discern what is the will of God,。
what is good and acceptable and perfect.。
Let us bow our heads.。
Lord, we thank you for loving us and for the sacrifice of Jesus Christ.。
You know us better than anyone else.。
Please continue to guide our lives and help us not to forget what you have done for us.。
May we respond to your love by offering ourselves as living sacrifices.。
May the Holy Spirit remind and help us to root ourselves in your Word,。
so that we may stand firm in this turbulent and restless age.。
I also want to pray specifically for our brothers and sisters who are struggling and feeling weak,。
that those who are struggling may find a way out,。
and those who are weak may find your companionship and presence.。
For those who are sad and burdened, may you grant them wisdom to face their challenges.。
For those who are wounded and sorrowful, may you embrace them and provide comfort.。
Lord, please strengthen us so that the more difficult, chaotic, and oppressive our lives become,。
the stronger our hearts will be in seeking strength from your Word.。
As we, the church body, come before you, that we may be a living sacrifice that pleases you.。
Thank you, Lord, for you will never abandon those who follow you.。
And you are a God who listens to prayer.。
We humbly come to you with gratitude.。
In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
