Okay, Mark.。
- Hey, good morning, everyone.。
Why don't we say hello and shake hands to one another,。
call each other brother and sisters,。
remember what I said last week.。
So find some people and shake their hands。
and welcome them to our worship community.。
- Hello, Mark.。
(audience chattering)。
- All right, good to see you guys, good to see you.。
Good to see you.。
All right, so it's good to be here。
and today at the end of service,。
we have Communion Sunday.。
It's the first Sunday of the month。
and we're looking forward to this time。
to take the communion elements,。
to remember what Christ has done for us.。
And again, Pastor Mark and the announcer was called,。
Kelly, did she introduce herself?。
- I don't know.。
- Okay, oh, you were there.。
Okay, Kelly, thank you very much.。
And there's also one more announcement.。
There's a sister show show next week, right?。
So it's after our Sunday worship service,。
you guys are gonna eat together, hot pot, right?。
Hot pot together and make candles together.。
Yeah, candles and then hot pot and then Super Bowl。
and then show show, whatever, okay?。
So it's gonna be a long day next week.。
Anyways, but today let's turn our attention。
to the word of God.。
We are on a series called Becoming a Healthier Church.。
Healthier Church, I think that's what God desire.。
God wants His church and local churches to be healthy, right?。
He wants you to be healthy too, right?。
So it's kind of related topic.。
You think about how to be healthier.。
Maybe it's your New Year's resolution.。
Nobody cares about it now, right?。
It's already February.。
So maybe it's one of your goals to be healthier.。
What kind of things that you would do or change。
in order to be healthier?。
Now, again, a related topic is the church.。
As a church, as a faith community, as a family of God,。
how can we be more healthy?。
And we spent two weeks to take a look。
at some of the passages from the letter of Ephesians。
in the New Testament.。
Now we are turning our attention to another book,。
another letter written by Paul as well.。
It's the letter of Philippians.。
So if you have your Bible, you can turn to Philippians 1,。
how to be a healthier church.。
Chapter one, above all, you must live as citizens。
of heaven, conducting yourself in a manner worthy。
of the good news, the gospel of Christ.。
Then whether I come and see you again,。
or only hear about you, I will know that you are standing。
together with one spirit and one purpose,。
fighting together, contending together for the faith,。
which is the good news, the gospel.。
So it's a short verse from chapter one。
of the letter of Philippians, written to the Philippians,。
written to the Christians in Philippi.。
So today, I just learned some of the new here。
who are students, especially students。
at Moody Bible Institute.。
So I prepared some pop quiz.。
Okay, I prepared some pop quiz.。
All right, so well, I think you will do well。
because you're Moody students.。
Anyways, let's go over these questions together.。
All right, it's a multiple choice questions.。
As we begin to study the book of Philippians,。
I would like to begin with some of the questions。
to warm up your mind, all right?。
So are you ready?。
- Yes.。
- All right, question one, all right?。
Question one, all right.。
You ready?。
It's all about the epistle of the Philippines, all right?。
The church in Philippi was planned by, who planned it?。
All right, A, Apostle Peter, B, Apostle Paul.。
A or B?。
Who said A?。
Who said B?。
Why you hesitate?。
(laughing)。
Why you hesitate?。
All right, so it is.。
It is planned by Apostle Paul, right?。
Why you hesitate?。
It's such a simple question, all right?。
So more difficult question to come, all right?。
All right, now this is a tough one, okay?。
This is a tough one, all right?。
On which of his missionary journey。
did Paul plan the church in Philippi?。
All right, A, first, B, second, C, third journey.。
All right, think about it, okay?。
Work with your neighbors, work with your neighbors, okay?。
Ask your neighbors, do you know the answer or not, okay?。
On which of his missionary journey。
did Paul plan the church in Philippi?。
The first one, second, or third, okay?。
How many of you say A, the first one?。
Okay, I see a hand in the room, okay.。
By the way, thank you very much.。
They work so hard to make our worship service possible.。
Sometimes there are technical difficulties, all right?。
You have any complaint, we invite you to join the team。
to help us out. (laughing)。
Anyways, option one is A, is first missionary journey.。
How many of you say B, second?。
All right, some said B.。
What, you following others, or?。
Okay, are you sure James is right?。
All right, how many of you say C, the third journey?。
All right, so let's see the answer.。
It is B, it is the second journey, okay?。
Second missionary journey, all right?。
All right, not bad, guys, not bad.。
All right, those of you who are hesitating。
to raise your hand to answer the question,。
you have to answer this question, okay?。
Question three, does the church in Philippi。
support Paul's mission?。
Yes or no, okay?。
Yes or no, how many say yes?。
Okay, how many say no?。
That's why he wrote the letter, right?。
No, yeah, he did.。
All right, all right.。
So Paul did, Paul did receive offering。
and support from the church of Philippi, all right?。
So they're a pretty good church, very generous, okay?。
So last question, okay?。
Uh, there you go, okay.。
This is a tough one, okay?。
Which of the following people were the leaders。
of the church in Philippi?。
Which of the following people were the leaders。
of the church in Philippi?。
A is, um,。
Euodia and Sinti, okay?。
Euodia and Sinti.。
A, B is Alexander and Philip.。
C is Timothy and Luke.。
All right, how many of you say A?。
All right, all right, I see some hands, okay.。
How many of you say B?。
B, names very familiar, Alexander and Philip.。
By the way, they're father and son, yeah.。
No, C, Timothy and Luke?。
Timothy and Luke, okay, good.。
Brave hand, brave people.。
The answer is,。
is A, all right?。
If you read chapter four, you find these two names show up.。
They are actually having some problem in the church.。
In any case, I want to warm you up with these questions。
to think about what the letter has to say about the church,。
about us as people in Christ.。
So the church of Philippi was planted by the apostle Paul。
in his second missionary journey.。
He went the first one, he went to what we call。
Asia Minor or modern day Turkey in that area。
from Antioch.。
So he preached the gospel to different towns and cities。
and find some people who embrace the gospel。
and planted all these house churches in different towns.。
And then they return to their home base。
in Jerusalem and Antioch.。
And then as they pray about it,。
they felt that the Spirit is moving them。
to go on for an other journey.。
So they started the second journey.。
And the second missionary journey,。
they pass through what we call Turkey,。
you see the blue line,。
they were in Jerusalem and then they were back to Antioch.。
And then from Antioch, they move west。
through Asia Minor.。
And there are different things happen。
and they wanted to go to that town,。
but the Holy Spirit is not leading them to.。
And then they moved on to another town。
and then move around.。
As they move around, they move westward。
to a place or a port or harbor called Chorus.。
So when they were there, they spend the night。
and God show Paul a vision.。
And in that vision, a man, a Macedonian man,。
Macedonian man by race, Macedonia.。
And in the dream, in the vision,。
this Macedonian man call on Paul and his team。
to come over, to cross the sea,。
the Aegean Sea to the sort of the peninsula of Greece.。
So to call Paul to cross the sea,。
to come over and help him, all right?。
Now that's interesting,。
because if you know something about history。
or the context of the Bible,。
you know, the Macedonian, all right?。
Remember the name, Alexander the Great?。
Alexander the Great, ring any bell?。
Right?。
Fairly familiar name, a great military leader。
living in 300 BC or so.。
And he was a Macedonian.。
And Alexander the Great, he crossed the sea eastward。
and conquered what do they call Turkey。
and the entire Asia, the entire continent。
and brings with him the Hellenistic culture,。
the Greek culture.。
So it's the Macedonian helping the rest of the world, right?。
Conquered the entire piece of land, entire continent.。
And Alexander the Great conquered the world。
in order to help other people in the east.。
Here, the vision is the other way around.。
Paul saw this vision, the Macedonian man。
calling him to help him, bring the gospel over to help him.。
So it's such a cultural reverse, right?。
So Paul follow God's guidance。
and he did cross the sea。
and eventually he came to a town called Philippi, all right?。
Actually in the book of Acts, recorded this incident.。
So we, here we have Luke, the writer of the book of Acts。
and the apostle Paul and all the other co-workers,。
they bought a ship from Chorus。
and they sailed straight to another island。
and then the next day they landed。
to the other side of the land in Macedonia.。
And from there, they traveled to different towns。
in which the big city called Philippi, all right?。
So they came to Philippi, which is the district。
or the province of Macedonia.。
It's a colony of Rome, okay?。
It's a colonial city.。
So we stayed there for several days.。
Now, as you can tell, this is a major city in Macedonia.。
It's a major Roman colonial place。
and it's an important city to the Roman empire.。
Now, what is a colonial city?。
What is a colony?。
What does it do?。
What does it do?。
All right, what does it do?。
What does a colonial city do?。
What is the purpose?。
What is the function?。
For the empire, for the imperial power,。
they established different places, foreign places.。
They conquered the city and named that city。
and changed that city into a colonial port。
or a colonial town.。
And a colonial place has a really, really important。
political social function.。
For the capital of the imperial power,。
they established colonies around the world。
or outside of the border.。
It's to promote their own power, their own culture。
and their own values.。
So you live in Philippi as a Roman colonial city.。
Your job or your colonial dream。
is to become a Roman citizen.。
And by becoming a Roman citizen,。
your function in the empire, in a colonial city,。
is to promote the power and the value and the culture。
of the imperial power.。
That's what colonialism is, right?。
We are talking about our world today.。
It's a post-colonial world, right?。
Because it used to be the Brits,。
they conquered all the places around the globe.。
And what they wanted to do is to promote their own culture。
and project their power in other places.。
So you can imagine if you're a local person in Philippi,。
your lifetime dream is to become a Roman citizen。
and to promote the interests, the power,。
the propaganda of the imperial power, which is Rome.。
And then if you understand this background,。
you should understand some of the special words。
that Paul used in the letter of Philippians.。
So this is a special word alert.。
I'll give you some context first.。
Some of the pictures are taken。
belonging to the first century of Philippi, all right?。
Upper left is Roman forum,。
and lower right is Roman theater,。
which seats about 50,000 people,。
part of the imperial power projecting their own culture.。
And lower left is Roman toilets, all right?。
So the Roman lifestyle,。
they bring with their own imperial lifestyle。
to different places in different city, all right?。
So if you never try one of those Roman toilets,。
you should, yeah, because this is what we do, all right?。
This is what we do today, thanks to the Romans, right?。
So these are the buildings and architecture。
of imperial power.。
Whenever they go, they will establish their own symbols。
and their own lifestyles into the city,。
especially the city in the Roman East, all right?。
So they impose foreign power。
onto different towns that they conquer.。
Now, here's a special word alert that I'll talk about.。
We read this verses, 127.。
Paul is telling the church in Philippi,。
"You must live as citizens of heaven,。
"conducting yourself in a manner worthy of the gospel."。
What's so special about this word。
is that behind this word is the Greek term.。
Can you pronounce that word?。
Yeah, politiomai, right?。
Politiomai, right?。
Something like that.。
Now, you don't have to be,。
you don't have to be fluent in English。
in order to understand what this word is all about.。
What we translate in Chinese or other language。
or in English, live as citizen,。
conducting that verb, behind that verb, is politiomai.。
And politiomai, you can tell it's related。
to some of the words that we use today.。
Politics, right?。
Citizenship.。
So Paul is using a Roman term, Roman colonial term,。
to tell us, to tell the church in Philippi。
what it means to be a Christian,。
what it means to be a follower of Christ.。
Paul used this colonial word not for Roman citizenship,。
but for citizenship in heaven.。
Heaven is citizenship.。
He kind of used that common word。
that people were familiar with.。
And turn it around, subverting it or remixing it,。
and put it in the context of the gospel.。
When you came to Christ,。
your ultimate identity is not the earthly citizenship.。
I know it could be a very relevant topic to all of us,。
right?。
Many of us, we probably,。
some of our life goals。
is to obtain the United States citizenship, right?。
United States citizenship.。
Or any citizenship of any strong country, right?。
Big power, superpower.。
We want to have that political right.。
We want to have that political identity.。
Paul is reversing it.。
Paul is saying what you are seeking。
and what you are pursuing should be。
the citizenship in heaven.。
So we are Christ's colonial city.。
We are the heavenly colonial city.。
Christ plant us in different towns,。
in different communities,。
in order to promote the gospel,。
promote the value,。
the interest of the one and only eternal kingdom of God.。
It's not the Roman way that we're concerned about.。
It is the Christ way that we should be concerned about.。
Paul is using this term。
and reminding the people in Philippi,。
all of us in Christ,。
you are being called to the best citizenship of the world.。
Better than the Romans,。
better than the United States,。
better than anything.。
It is the kingdom of God.。
That is our identity.。
And that's what church is all about.。
You must be political mind.。
You must be the citizens of heaven.。
Remind yourself what are you after in your life?。
What is your greatest interest?。
It is to promote the kingdom of Christ,。
promote the value of the kingdom.。
Again and again, Paul's used this term。
in chapter three as well.。
Same word, but you are,。
you're not Roman citizens.。
You are citizens, political mind, of heaven.。
Where the Lord Jesus lives.。
And we are waiting for him to return as our savior.。
And he will take our weak mortal bodies。
and change them into the glorious body like his own.。
Using the same power with which。
he will bring everything under his control.。
He's talking about the coming king, Jesus Christ.。
The coming king of our kingdom.。
And he is coming and we are waiting for his coming,。
the glorious coming of Christ.。
And that's why we are going forward to heaven。
and we are the citizens of heaven.。
To promote the interest and the power。
in the kingdom of Jesus Christ.。
So if you ask the question,。
what does it mean to be a healthy church?。
What does it mean to be a healthy Christian?。
What does it mean?。
You think in the colonial way, the heavenly colonial way.。
A healthy Christian, a healthy church,。
is most concerned about promoting the gospel.。
And that's why Paul wrote the letter of Philippians.。
Let me give you some suggestions as we close.。
Some of the marks or some of the indicators。
of a healthy church.。
All right, it's the outreach to other people.。
Church is the only organization on earth。
that is concerned most about the non-members.。
You see what I'm saying?。
Church is the only body on earth,。
or heavenly body, heavenly sent colonial body,。
that is most concerned about the non-members.。
How many of you are Costco members?。
Yeah, are you proud of it, being a Costco member?。
Yeah, right?。
(congregation laughing)。
You're proud of it, right?。
Yeah, because you need that membership card。
to go in to that big box, right?。
Without that card, you cannot go in.。
And with that card, you can bring a lot of people, right?。
You can bring the whole church to Costco。
and we can all buy some cheap eggs.。
You know, all the organizations on earth。
are concerned about their own members, right?。
But church is the other way around.。
It's the other way around.。
How do we become a part of the heavenly kingdom?。
It's that we should pay attention。
to those who do not belong to us.。
Those people who have not heard of Christ,。
those people who need the gospel,。
who need to hear the good news.。
Our ultimate concern and interest should be those people.。
That's why church community, churches,。
should always be open doors, right?。
I know there were a lot of concerns these days。
about church safety, shooting, and all of that.。
But let us be reminded that the church is on earth。
being planted from the heavenly kingdom above。
is to promote the gospel, the good news.。
Some of the actions item I would like to suggest to you,。
and let's apply what we have learned today in your lives.。
Number one, pray, pray in your own prayers.。
Pray that you will be able to reach out to the non-members,。
people around you.。
I know it's all good.。
We have Christian brothers and sisters,。
we can hang out together, right?。
Last week, I spent hours in Moody Bible Institute。
to have fellowship with some of the brothers and sisters。
in the midst of us.。
And it was such a great time we had together, right?。
We can pray together, we all talk in the same language,。
right, we all talk, we're in the same wavelength, right?。
And we enjoy it.。
There are times like this, but our ultimate concern。
is to be speaking and talking and relating and outreaching。
to those who are different from us.。
We are followers of Christ, but we want to reach out。
to those who have not heard of the gospel, right?。
Yesterday I gave rides to some of the students in the city.。
There were some students that I had never met before,。
but I gave them a ride, it was a pretty long ride,。
two hours ride.。
I drove them to some place for their exam,。
and then drove them back.。
I really enjoy it.。
I really enjoy it.。
To talk to them, to tell them what I am, right?。
So in our conversation, I met them and I introduced myself,。
and then they didn't know I'm a pastor.。
So after some hours of being together in the car,。
and then we went to lunch, and then I finally said,。
"I'm a pastor."。
And then that girl was like, "Wow."。
Her eyes was brightened.。
I don't know if it's for good or for bad,。
but, "Oh, you're a pastor."。
And then I got a nickname.。
I got a nickname, she calls me Pastor Daddy.。
I guess I'm so old now, right?。
The students are calling me Daddy.。
I don't know if it's a good thing or not,。
but, you know, so I was able to just represent Christ。
as I relate to them, right?。
As I provide some of the services or help them out,。
this is what we should be concerning about.。
So number one action item is that for you to pray。
that God will use you to outreach other people.。
Second, second action item.。
So funny, right?。
I didn't tell Rachel, but, you know, God bless you.。
You got some sisters.。
And number two, action item number two,。
is to invite others to join the fellowship.。
You know, we got social activities。
and whatever we want to outreach to other people.。
It's a great platform to invite other people to join us.。
Number three, when other new people are coming。
to our fellowship or our dinners or our social activities,。
you know, we need to open our hearts.。
We need to open our lives to invite them,。
to make them feel welcome, right?。
That's what the family of God should be.。
That's what the church should be like.。
So number one, pray that you will outreach to others.。
Number two, invite others to join our community.。
Number three, welcome them, right?。
Let's all pray together as we partake。
the communion, bread and wine together.。
Let's all pray.。
Dear Father, we give you thanks for calling us in Christ,。
that we have the privilege to hear the gospel。
and to believe in your name.。
And we want to thank you for your love.。
We want to thank you for your grace.。
Because of the blood of Jesus Christ,。
we can become heavenly citizens.。
And God, we pray that you will help us。
to live out our heavenly citizenship.。
Let our concern, let our interest,。
is to promote your gospel.。
And help us to reach out to others。
and use us to invite others to join your heavenly community.。
And I pray that your love will fill us up.。
That we'll be your channel, we'll be your instruments.。
As we take the bread and the cup,。
remind us once again, once again,。
that you are our Lord, Savior.。
You are our loving Lord and God.。
Thank you for redeeming our lives,。
forgiving our sins, so that we。
are called brothers and sisters in Christ.。
Thank you for your love in Christ's name.。
The world is not a place for you to live.。
