Good morning, UV, it's good to be here.。
Excited to worship with you today。
and getting the word together.。
And thank you, Jason, for leading us this morning.。
We're gonna be looking in Ephesians chapter two。
this morning, Ephesians chapter two.。
If you wanna look there, turn there,。
look there in your Bible app.。
We're gonna be looking at the first 10 verses。
of Ephesians chapter two.。
And we're gonna be talking about our identity。
and knowing our identity, these verses give us。
this powerful picture of who we are in Christ.。
So we're gonna read these verses together。
and then apply them to our lives。
and specifically what they mean for us in the church。
as a group of people who share this identity in Christ.。
So let's read this.。
We're gonna begin in verse one of Ephesians chapter two.。
And you were dead in the trespasses and sins。
in which you once walked, following the course。
of this world, following the prince of the power of the air,。
the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience,。
among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh,。
carrying out the desires of the body and the mind,。
and were by nature children of wrath。
like the rest of mankind.。
But God, being rich in mercy because of the great love。
with which he loved us, even when we were dead。
in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ.。
By grace, you have been saved and raised us up with him。
and seated us with him in the heavenly places。
in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages,。
he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace。
in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.。
For by grace, you have been saved through faith。
and this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God,。
not a result of works, so that no one may boast.。
For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus。
for good works, which God prepared beforehand。
that we should walk in them.。
Let's pray real briefly.。
God, thank you for your word and for the truth。
that it has for us.。
I pray that you would speak to our hearts this morning。
and make your truth plain and clear。
and that we would be changed by it.。
I pray that your truth would change our hearts this morning。
and through that change, it would change our actions.。
I pray that we would go from this place different。
than when we came in, in Jesus' name, amen.。
All right, so this is probably kind of a familiar passage.。
Maybe you've heard it before, read it before,。
maybe you've read it many times, I hope so.。
This passage is such a powerful statement。
of God's grace and of salvation, redemption。
that we have in Christ and where it comes from.。
And we could spend a lot of time here。
just talking about that, about the grace of God。
and what this passage tells us about the grace of God.。
But this morning, we're gonna talk specifically。
about what this passage on the grace of God。
tells us about who we are。
and specifically about who we are in the church.。
And that's important because this letter。
was written to believers in churches,。
obviously in a very different time。
and a different culture than where we are right now,。
but in a lot of other ways, people just like us,。
people who were probably in large cities。
surrounded by what we might call secularism,。
it was really paganism.。
They were surrounded by idol worship,。
they were surrounded by people chasing。
after destructive things in their life,。
they were surrounded by people who rejected。
the God of the Bible and sought their own happiness。
and pleasure and fulfillment in all these other things.。
They were surrounded by people who disagreed with them。
and who mocked their beliefs.。
So in a lot of ways, the experience of these believers。
was very similar to ours.。
And Paul's writing to them and he's telling them things。
that are important for them to know。
and then he's telling them things。
that are important for them to live out.。
And in the rest of chapter two,。
he's gonna talk about how important it is。
for them to live out unity in the church。
and how Christ has broken down these walls。
that divide us as human beings。
and made us into this new family.。
He's gonna go on and talk about that.。
But this is where he starts.。
He doesn't start with unity and with breaking down the walls.。
Before he gets to that, he starts with identity.。
And he starts with identity by talking about grace.。
And that's the most significant thing。
for us to understand about our identity。
is that in Christ, we are given this grace-based identity.。
That's who we are.。
We see it in this passage.。
There's this exchange from death to life。
that Paul makes really clear.。
And notice there are no qualifiers in these verses.。
Every believer who comes into relationship with God。
has been given this exchange.。
Every one of us has been brought。
from a state of spiritual death。
into a state of spiritual life.。
If you look at the first five verses here of the chapter。
and summarize them kind of in one sentence,。
it would be you were, but God, you are.。
That's the theme of what he's saying here.。
He's saying this is who you were.。
Then God intervened in your life.。
Now this is who you are.。
You have been changed.。
Your identity has been changed.。
And this is not an exchange of function or vocation.。
He's not saying you guys were peasants。
and now you're farmers.。
You guys were servants and now you're royals.。
He's not talking about a vocational change.。
And that's important for us to understand。
because in 21st century, especially in North America,。
we tend to identify ourselves by our vocation.。
We think who we are is what we do.。
So we think our job is our identity。
or our relationships are our identity。
or some choices that we make in our life are our identity.。
That's not what we're talking about here.。
It's not a change of our vocation or our function.。
It's a change of our essence.。
Death to life is a change of essence.。
It's a change of a state of being.。
It's not a change in your job.。
And that's what he's talking about.。
He's saying you were something before。
and God intervened and now you have。
a completely different essence,。
a completely different identity.。
And this is the gospel.。
This is the doctrine of regeneration.。
This idea that there's this supernatural work of God。
through the Holy Spirit whereby God gives life。
to sinners who had rejected God。
and were in a state of spiritual death.。
Our nature is fundamentally changed。
out of salvation by the grace of God.。
That's what we're being shown here.。
And we're further being shown that this exchange。
is made solely by God on the basis of his grace.。
We don't do anything to deserve it,。
to earn it, or to make it happen.。
That's really clear in these verses.。
Now, like I said, hopefully we all。
at least have heard that before。
and thought about it a little bit.。
And I'll be perfectly honest,。
all of us should meditate on that。
and really reflect on it a lot more,。
myself certainly included,。
because this is really the basis of our relationship with God。
is the basis of our relationship with one another.。
And so even though we've heard it before,。
we're like, yeah, I get it.。
For by grace are you saved, it's not of works,。
I know the verse.。
Still, we need to really reflect on that,。
consider it, and let it sink into our hearts。
and begin to change who we are.。
And that's, I think, what he's trying to communicate,。
why he's starting with our identity.。
He's telling us our identity。
is completely based in God's grace.。
It's founded on God's grace.。
That's where it comes from, that's the source of it.。
It's founded in God's unmerited favor towards us.。
We're forgiven because of God's grace,。
we're cleansed because of God's grace.。
What Jesus did on the cross,。
the sacrifice on the cross for us.。
We're accepted in the family of God because of God's grace.。
We're made like Christ, transformed into his image,。
sanctified as we live out the Christian life。
and as we follow Jesus,。
that process is also because of God's grace.。
And that's the essence of what it means。
to be a follower of Jesus。
and what it means to be in the church.。
I'll also just say this,。
it's not really where we're headed today,。
but it's just something important。
to understand about identity,。
is that the security of your identity。
is only as secure as the source of your identity.。
And that's important for us to understand.。
Even as believers, we can place our identity。
in other things.。
We can place it in our vocation,。
we can place it in our relationships,。
we can place it in our achievement,。
our education, our status.。
We can place it in our financial position,。
we can place it in our class,。
we can put our identity in all types of things.。
And the problem with that is,。
those things are all earthly, temporal things。
that can change and pass away.。
Our relationships can change,。
people that we love can move or they can age.。
And if our identity is in a relationship,。
even if it's in our own family,。
that can be taken away, that can be shaken.。
If our identity is in our job, we can lose our job.。
If our identity is in our possessions and our wealth,。
that can all disappear.。
If our identity is in our ability。
and the things that we're good at,。
that can be changed.。
We may have great beauty。
or we may have great athletic prowess。
or we may have great intelligence,。
but those things can go away, right?。
Our beauty fades with time。
and so does our physical strength and vigor.。
And our intelligence,。
we can still be outsmarted,。
we can still make a bad decision.。
All those things that we place our identity in。
ultimately end up being insecure.。
And that's why it's so important for us as believers。
to place our identity in Christ,。
because Christ is the only source of our identity。
that's not gonna change。
and it can't be taken away from us。
and won't be corrupted or won't disintegrate or diminish.。
And so if we have our identity in Christ。
and we lose our job, our identity is still secure.。
If we have our identity in Christ。
and someone mistreats us in a relationship,。
our identity is still secure.。
If we have our identity in Christ and we get old,。
our identity is still secure.。
And so it's really important for us as believers。
to put our identity in Christ,。
because the source of our identity。
determines the security of our identity.。
And that's the only place for us to be.。
But if we're placing our identity in Christ。
and understanding his grace,。
it has real significance for the way。
that we relate to one another, especially in the church.。
And that's what I want us to consider today。
because I think that's really why Paul starts here。
with identity and with grace。
and then moves on towards unity.。
So let's think about this.。
First, in Christ we're given this equality of identity.。
We're all equal in the grace that God has given us.。
But not necessarily uniformity of expression,。
and that's important for us to understand.。
In the first few verses here between verse one and three,。
there's a shift in speech from you to we.。
In verse one, Paul is speaking to the Gentile believers。
in Ephesus and speaking to them as a Jewish person.。
That's why he's saying you.。
You were in this condition.。
In verse three, he's being careful to make it clear。
that Jews were also in the same condition。
of sinfulness, fallenness, and need for Jesus.。
As he does this, what Paul's doing。
is he's both acknowledging the distinction。
between Jew and Gentile and also erasing。
the inferiority, superiority dynamic of the distinction.。
That's important for us to understand.。
We're all given this equal identity of grace in Christ.。
We have equal worth in the essence of our redemption,。
but we're still different in different ways.。
We still have different expressions。
of God's work in our life,。
and that's okay.。
We still have different cultures.。
We have different ways of doing things.。
We have different ways of expressing the gifts。
that God's given us.。
We have different gifts,。
and those are all beautiful things.。
The scripture's really clear about this.。
First Corinthians 12, verses four to seven says this.。
Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same spirit.。
There are varieties of service, but the same Lord.。
There are varieties of activities,。
but it's the same God who empowers them all and everyone.。
To each is given the manifestation of the spirit。
for the common good.。
That means even though we're equal in Christ,。
we have this shared identity,。
our God-given distinctions and diversity are preserved,。
and that's a good thing.。
Our physical differences, our personality, our skills,。
our talents, our abilities, our spiritual gifts,。
even our cultural background and expressions,。
all those things are preserved and valued in the church,。
in the community of God's people,。
and that affects our relationships, right?。
When we understand, hey, I've been saved,。
I've been brought into this family by grace.。
My brother or sister,。
they do some things differently than me.。
They have different gifts.。
They have different things that are important to them.。
They have different ideas about how we should connect。
with the community and serve,。
or what the worship service should look like,。
or whatever it is, but I can value them。
because they were also brought into this community by grace,。
and they were saved with the same grace that I was,。
and so even though there's a different expression,。
we share that identity of grace.。
There's no inferiority or superiority here,。
and that's clear throughout the New Testament.。
Galatians 3, Paul talks about that.。
He says, in verse 27, this is Galatians 3, 27, 28.。
For as many as you were baptized into Christ。
have put on Christ, there's neither Jew nor Greek,。
there's neither slave nor free,。
there's no male nor female,。
for you are all one in Christ Jesus.。
That's what he's saying.。
He's not saying that once you come into the church,。
those things don't exist,。
that there's no longer Jewish people and Gentile people.。
Obviously, they still existed as Jews and Gentiles。
in the first century church.。
He's not saying that there were no men and women。
in the church.。
Obviously, they still existed as men and women in the church,。
but he's saying there's no dynamic of inferiority。
or superiority, that each one of you has equal worth。
and value and redemption and grace through Christ,。
and that when we come into the church,。
yes, we're still different,。
and we express that in different ways,。
we serve God in different ways,。
but each one of us has the same identity。
of grace and forgiveness.。
Now, obviously, we have to submit our differences。
to God's word.。
Sometimes we have differences of preference。
and things like that,。
that may be unbiblical,。
some of them may be unhealthy,。
so we have to submit those things to God's word.。
We have to say, okay, what are the things。
that are a part of my preferences or my background。
that maybe I need to let go of,。
maybe I need to release?。
We need to understand that all of us, as believers,。
are beautiful and broken.。
We're redeemed, but we still have sin,。
we still have brokenness,。
and so we have to submit those things to God's word。
and lift up the beautiful God-honoring things。
in our community of the church。
and be willing to lay down the broken things。
in the community of the church.。
There are things that we have to say,。
okay, this is a part of who I am,。
but it's actually not honoring to God,。
and so I'm gonna lay this down。
for my brothers and sisters in the church,。
but maybe there's something else。
that is not a part of who I am。
that's a part of my brothers and sisters,。
but there's nothing wrong with it,。
it's actually a beautiful thing, I can lift that up,。
even though it's unfamiliar to me,。
it's still something that I can celebrate。
because we have the same identity of grace,。
we have the same essence of forgiveness,。
and those things ultimately, those different expressions,。
even if they're unfamiliar to us,。
like I said, as long as they're not unbiblical,。
as long as they're not in a violation of God's word,。
those things become adornments to the gospel,。
and the New Testament's clear about that,。
that God desires a host of people。
from every nation, every background,。
with all different types of skills and talents and abilities。
and all different types of people。
to be in his family and to worship him,。
and that's really clear in the New Testament,。
and so if God wants that, then we can be okay with that too.。
We can say, you know what,。
my brother and sister,。
they do it a little bit differently than me,。
have some different ideas than me,。
but they have the same redemption that I have,。
they've been brought into the same family of God。
that I have been,。
and so I can value and love and respect them,。
and even experience fellowship with them。
because we have this same redemption in Christ.。
Our grace-filled identity's really important.。
To our unity.。
We see in verses four to seven。
the equality of that redemption in Christ.。
That God, being rich in mercy because of the great love。
with which he loved us even when we were dead。
and our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ.。
And by grace you have been saved and raised us up with him。
and seated us with him in the heavenly places。
in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages。
he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace。
in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.。
Everyone in the church who truly knows God。
and has relationship with him experiences the same grace.。
There's no one who gets like class one salvation,。
there's no first class salvation,。
an economy class salvation.。
We all get the same grace,。
we all get the same forgiveness,。
we are all accepted and embraced by Jesus in the same way.。
We're all welcomed and valued into the family of God。
in the same way.。
We all have equal worth and equal value before Christ.。
And every person in the church matters equally.。
Sometimes that's hard for us to understand。
because we say, well, there's different roles。
and there's different functions in the church.。
And so it seems like one role or function。
is more important than the other.。
There are different roles and functions in the church,。
that's biblical.。
The Bible lays that out for us。
and it gives us those things so that the church。
can function well in pursuit of its mission。
of glorifying God, knowing him,。
and reaching the world, making disciples.。
So that's something that we should have.。
But we shouldn't misunderstand and think that。
because there are different roles and different functions,。
that that means people have different worth。
in the body of Christ.。
It's not true at all.。
Just because someone is a part of serving in the church。
or because they stand on the stage,。
doesn't mean they have more worth.。
They don't have more worth in God's eyes,。
they don't have, like I said,。
they don't have a higher level of salvation.。
All of us are given the same grace。
and all of us are valued equally before our savior.。
And each one of us matter in the same way.。
And everyone is essential to the body.。
Again, in 1 Corinthians 12, talking about the unity。
and the working of the church,。
in verse 20 and 21 it says this,。
"As it is, there are many parts, yet one body,。
"that I cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you,。
"nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you."。
Everyone who is a part of the church。
is essential to the body.。
Even though the roles are different.。
And I love that illustration that Paul uses。
of the physical body,。
because there are parts of our physical body。
that we think are more important, right?。
Like we think our hand is more important。
'cause it does so much stuff.。
But there are other parts of our body。
that we may notice much less,。
but they're essential to the working of our body.。
And that's this illustration in the church.。
We can't look at different roles and say,。
this is worth more, this person has more value。
in God's sight, that's not true.。
Every one of us is essential to the body.。
And in verses four to seven,。
we also see as he's talking about what God has done for us,。
he's shown us the immeasurable riches of his grace,。
that that is again given to all of us.。
Think about that.。
In the church, all of us are given the same Holy Spirit,。
all of us have the same access to God relationally.。
Now that doesn't mean we all walk with God in the same way,。
and that doesn't mean that all of us are at the same place。
in our walk with God, right?。
There is such a thing as spiritual maturity,。
and there are people who are walking with God。
in a deeper way than others.。
And again, that's biblical.。
But we're all given the same access.。
We all have the same access to God.。
We all have the same opportunities to know God.。
We all have the same privileges and spiritual riches。
as children of God.。
God doesn't say, well, I'm gonna give some blessings。
to this person 'cause they're really special,。
but the other believers don't get to have that.。
No, we all have those same privileges as a child of God.。
We all have those same spiritual riches。
that we have access to.。
And we all have the same destiny in heaven.。
Bible's clear about that.。
Now, that doesn't mean everything is the same。
in our lives, right?。
And again, that's okay.。
The Bible speaks to that.。
We're gonna have different experiences in our life.。
We're gonna go through different things.。
Some of us are gonna grow in spiritual maturity。
at a different rate, and that's okay.。
But what we need to understand is that our physical resources。
and opportunities and the things that we go through。
on this earth do not mean that we matter more。
or have more worth in God's eyes.。
And that's been a problem in the church。
since the beginning, right?。
James talks about it, how we're not supposed。
to show partiality when someone comes into the church。
and we say, oh, this person's wealthy or influential,。
so we're gonna make sure this person。
has the first-class experience.。
And he says, don't do that, that's wrong.。
Because that's always been a part of who we are as humans.。
We're tempted to say, well, this person,。
their physical experience, their life experience。
here on earth, they have more wealth。
or they have more influence or there's someone with power。
or there's someone, so maybe we should treat them。
like they have more worth in the church as well.。
But that's not true.。
And that's what we have to remember.。
It's fine that we have different experiences,。
that we have different resources,。
that we're in different places in life.。
That's fine.。
But don't get confused and think that that makes people。
worth more in the eyes of God, because it's not true.。
What we're seeing in this passage is that in Christ,。
the foundation and the ground of our equality,。
which ultimately results in unity, is one of grace.。
Verses eight to 10 make that so clear.。
For by grace you've been saved through faith,。
and what you're doing is the gift of God,。
not a result of work, so that no one may boast,。
for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus。
for good works, which God prepared beforehand。
that we should walk in them.。
None of us have room for pride or to think。
that we're better than someone else.。
That's what he's saying there.。
In the church, this equality of worth that we have。
before Christ comes from grace.。
And that's really important for us to understand.。
We live in a world that really wants equality, right?。
It's an important value in our world,。
and people are seeking it.。
Unfortunately, people usually seek it in the wrong ways.。
And one of the really backward conceptions。
that the world has of equality that just doesn't work。
is we're trying to seek after an equality of exaltation.。
We're saying, who is the person that has the most,。
and let's try to raise everybody to that level, right?。
We think that would be fair.。
That's not what the Bible does.。
The Bible gives us a true equality,。
but it's totally different.。
The Bible says, hey, everyone's equal,。
but not in exaltation.。
Everyone's equal in need.。
Everyone's equal in brokenness.。
The most equal place in the universe。
is the ground at the foot of the cross,。
where we come before Christ, and every one of us,。
regardless of our background or our family heritage。
or our culture or our possessions, our wealth,。
regardless of all of that,。
every one of us is at the foot of the cross saying,。
I have no hope.。
I'm spiritually dead.。
I'm separated from God.。
I'm broken.。
I'm in need.。
And everything else about me, my money, my background,。
whatever, can't help me, and I need a savior.。
And that's the place where we find really true equality,。
because that puts us in a place。
that is really an antiseptic to our pride.。
It destroys that pride that we have,。
thinking like, well, I'm better than someone else。
because I did this or I did that.。
No, at the foot of the cross, we did nothing.。
We earned nothing.。
There's nothing for us to boast in,。
as this passage tells us.。
At the foot of the cross, we can't look at someone else。
and think, well, there's kind of a moral hierarchy here.。
I'm better than them in some way, because we're not.。
Even if we're a person who knows Jesus。
and we're following him and God's at work in our life。
and there's good works coming out of that,。
because that's what verse 10 says is gonna happen,。
even if we're that person, we have to say, wait a second.。
Even any good work coming out of my life。
is because of Christ.。
So I don't get to look at anyone else,。
think I'm better than them.。
There's no room for pride, there's no room for boasting.。
Those types of things are poisonous。
to a spirit of equality.。
They're poisonous to a spirit of unity.。
And that's why Paul is starting with this.。
He's saying, look, if you guys are gonna be unified。
in living out the mission God has for you,。
you gotta understand who you are in Christ。
and where that comes from.。
It comes from grace.。
And because of that, you can treat one another。
like everybody matters just as much as you do,。
because that's the truth.。
And you can treat one another like the only way。
you got in the door was because of Jesus.。
That's the truth.。
No one got in the door because they were wealthy.。
No one got in the door because they were well-connected.。
No one got in the door。
because their family knew somebody.。
No one got in the door because they were smart.。
No one got in the door because they were gifted。
or a celebrity or they were beautiful or none of that.。
In the church, we only come in。
because of Jesus and what he did for us。
and because of his grace and the forgiveness。
and acceptance that he offers us.。
And that's so important for us.。
And so in closing, I want us to just think about that。
for a minute.。
So much of identity is enculturated.。
It's as we grow up, it's the water we swim in。
and we're taught that, right?。
You can, I'm sure, remember instances like that。
from when you were a kid when maybe you had a question。
about why do we do this?。
And your parents said, "That's what we do, right?。
"This is who we are.。
"This is why we eat what we eat.。
"This is why we go where we go.。
"This is why our house looks like this."。
So much about our identity and who we are。
is just taught to us as we grow up。
and then we live it out, right?。
But think about that in the church。
and think about that in light of these 10 verses.。
If we start to live out this culture。
that Paul is pointing us towards here,。
where our identity is grace-based,。
where it has, it's nothing to do with our performance。
or our possessions or anything else.。
It's just grace-based.。
What kind of culture does that build, right?。
'Cause in our human cultures,。
we can build identities that have beautiful things。
but also very broken things in our human cultures, right?。
We see that in our human cultures.。
But Paul is putting in front of us。
something that's, there's no brokenness in it.。
This is the grace of God.。
And if we built a culture based on this in the church,。
that would be something, that would be truly beautiful。
and would be truly life-giving to people who are in it。
and people who are outside it and would see it。
and would wanna be part of it.。
And it certainly would lead to the type of unity。
that is discussed later on in this chapter.。
And this is where it starts.。
It starts with this identity of knowing。
that we are here because of God's grace.。
And because of that, we can have that same grace。
and humility and love and care for everyone else。
that God has put in our church, in our local body。
as we live life together.。
We can treat them with that grace。
because that's why we're all here.。
And each one of us has received that from Christ.。
None of us earned it, none of us got it.。
We all were given it by Jesus.。
And each one of us got it.。
No one got it halfway.。
That's who we are, and that's how we can live。
into our relationships with one another in the church.。
Let's pray.。
God, I thank you for the truth of your grace,。
and I thank you for the way that it levels our pride。
and it turns us towards one another with a heart of love.。
And I pray that would be true in our lives, God,。
as we live out what it means to be your followers,。
your church, both in this setting where we come together,。
we gather with one another and we're facing one another,。
but also then tomorrow and through the week。
as we go out into the world and we face the world.。
God, may we, in both of those places,。
may our identity be grounded in your grace.。
May we see that we're only here。
because of what you did for us.。
And that's true of everyone else in the room,。
and may we really love one another。
and be unified and care for one another。
because we see the grace that you've given。
to each one of us.。
God, we just thank you and praise you for what you've done.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
