All right, good morning, everybody.。
Let's quickly pray with me.。
Heavenly Father, I just pray now that you would use this time, use this word.。
Let it not be a man's words, but let it be your word for your people and for your glory.。
So I pray that you would speak through me, speak to each of our hearts, Father God, to。
make us more like the Lord Jesus Christ.。
And I pray this in his name, amen.。
So in December of 2003, a man named Gary Ridgway was sentenced by a Seattle judge to 48 life。
sentences.。
In addition to this, he was sentenced 10 years for every one of those life sentences.。
So he was facing 480-year sentence on top of 48 consecutive life sentences.。
And it may seem extreme, but legally speaking, the sentence, this punishment was well-deserved。
because Gary Ridgway is more commonly known as the Green River Killer.。
And he is the second most prolific serial killer in the history of the United States。
of America.。
And while he was standing before the judge on trial for these 48 murders, he was stone-faced.。
He had no emotion.。
And he had actually confessed to killing over 70 women throughout Washington state, although。
he was only tried for 48 of them.。
And through the entire sentencing process, he was stone-faced, he was emotionless.。
And in the court proceedings, the judge had invited family members of these victims to。
come and speak before the court.。
And so these families came up, and they bared their soul, they poured out their grief, their。
heartbreak, their rage towards this man who had taken everything from them—mothers,。
daughters, wives, sisters—all lost to this man who sat in the very same courtroom as。
them, absolutely remorseless.。
And I got a few quotes here of some of the things that these families said, some mocking。
Gary Ridgway, some condemning this man for what he did to their families.。
And so a few of the things that they said I have here.。
"He's an animal.。
I wish for him to have a long, suffering, cruel death."。
One woman said, "He's going to go to hell, and that's exactly where he belongs."。
Through all these statements and many more just like them, Ridgway remained emotionless.。
But that is until one man took the podium, a father whose daughter had her life snatched。
away by this man.。
And the father took the podium, and to everyone's surprise, this is what he said.。
"Mr. Ridgway, there are people here that hate you.。
I am not one of them.。
You've made it difficult to live up to what I believe, and that is what God says to do,。
which is to forgive."。
And at that moment, the entire courtroom was stunned in silence as he said this next sentence.。
"You are forgiven, sir."。
And at that, that shocking display of mercy and forgiveness, for the first time in months。
of court proceedings, Gary Ridgway broke down in tears, and he cried.。
And there's a clip of this on YouTube.。
If you look it up, you can search "The Power of Forgiveness, Gary Ridgway."。
And every time I watch that clip, I find it difficult not to myself tear up because it's。
just so powerful.。
It's so full of emotion on display in the courtroom.。
The heartbreak, the pain, the anger of those families who've just lost a piece of themselves,。
their desire for vengeance.。
And then one man among many stands up and offers, extends forgiveness and mercy to a。
guilty murderer, a serial killer.。
And when I see that, I feel a tug at my own heart, a tug of conviction, a conviction that。
asks me, "What would I do in that same position if it was my mother or my sister, my wife。
or my child?。
Would I be able to forgive like that?。
Could I forgive like that?。
Should I even forgive something so egregious, something so terrible?。
Does a murderer like that, does he deserve that forgiveness?。
How could that father have forgiven him?。
How could he do that?。
Why would he do that?"。
And so today we'll be reading a portion of teachings from the Lord Jesus Christ that。
answers those very questions and it answers our questions when we find ourselves struggling。
to forgive, not wanting to forgive.。
And so my passage I'll be reading from today is Matthew chapter 18, verses 21 through 35.。
And before I get into the passage, I kind of want to explain and set up a little bit。
what is going on in the context of this teaching Jesus gives.。
And so prior to this, Jesus had just taught his disciples his way of forgiveness, how。
when a brother or sister sins against them, how are they to respond?。
And what he tells them is when a brother or sister sins against you, you go to them and。
you tell them what they've done in hopes that they will repent and you will forgive them。
and you'll be restored, reconciled together.。
But if they refuse to repent, you go and take two or three witnesses with you and together。
you'll go to this brother or sister who is in sin against you with the hope that you'll。
be restored and reconciled to them, that they will repent and you will forgive them.。
But if they still refuse to repent, then you take the matter before the entire church with。
the hopes that the weight of the whole body of believers will cause this person to repent。
and then you forgive them and be reconciled and restored in brotherhood.。
But if even then they repent, Jesus says to treat them, deal with them as a pagan, as。
a tax collector, as an outsider.。
And so this is what Jesus is now responding to in this passage.。
And after teaching these steps to his disciples, how they are to forgive a brother who sins。
against them, Peter comes up, he comes to the Lord and he asks him this question, "Lord,。
how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him?。
As many as seven times?"。
Which is a pretty good question Peter asks here, because if we're honest with ourselves。
we would probably have a similar question.。
"Well, how many times Lord should I forgive?。
Yes, I know that you want me to forgive."。
And we generally agree that extending forgiveness is a good thing.。
And we certainly know how good it feels to be forgiven.。
But I think we all kind of think to ourselves, "There must be a limit, right?。
You don't expect me to forgive unconditionally if they keep hurting me or sinning against。
me.。
My mercy, my patience, my forgiveness, it can only go so far.。
I don't have to keep forgiving, right?"。
And according to the Jewish rabbinical tradition of that day, of that time period, you were。
obligated to forgive three times.。
So if a brother sinned against you, you forgave him.。
And after the third time of extending that forgiveness, you were to show them no more。
forgiveness.。
There was no fourth chance.。
And it's kind of similar even 2,000 years later to our culture, to our day and age,。
and the world's approach on forgiveness is pretty similar.。
And so I have a few sayings here that maybe you've heard of.。
Maybe you've said it before or had it said to you.。
"I'll only give you three chances.。
That's one.。
That's two.。
Don't let me get to three or else."。
Life is like baseball.。
Three strikes and you're out.。
Or maybe this one.。
"Fool me once, shame on me.。
Fool me twice, shame on you."。
And you see the idea behind that is you're not going to fool me.。
You're not going to cross me or offend me a third time.。
I won't give you the chance.。
And that's exactly how it was for the Jews in Jesus' day and age.。
And Peter knew this.。
And so he asked Jesus, "Should he forgive up to seven times a brother who sins against。
him?"。
And so you can imagine the reaction that may have come from those who were around him.。
Hearing Peter say, "Should I forgive seven times?。
Seven times?。
Are you kidding me?"。
This guy, Peter, he's so forgiving.。
He's so merciful.。
No one else is forgiving seven times.。
Not even the rabbis are forgiving seven times.。
This guy, Peter, is something special.。
But surely Jesus doesn't expect me to forgive seven times, right?。
No one else is doing that.。
And so if Peter's question was surprising to those who were around at the time, Jesus'。
response to Peter would have been even more surprising.。
And I think it's, to an extent, even surprising to us when we think about the implication.。
And so Jesus answers Peter and says to him, "I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven。
times."。
Seventy-seven times.。
Remember, the Jewish rabbis, the holy men of the day, they taught three times is enough.。
And Jesus says, "No, not seven, but seventy-seven."。
And actually, depending on how you take the Greek that's behind this, how you translate。
it, it could be translated as seventy times seven, which is even a greater number of forgiveness.。
But whether it's seventy-seven or seventy times seven, that's not exactly the point,。
because Jesus is not giving a specific number to teach the people, okay, you keep track.。
And once they've sinned against you seventy-eight times, that's it.。
Once they've crossed this certain number of times sinning against you, offending you,。
then you cut them off.。
You offer them no forgiveness and you hold that against them.。
That's not what He's saying.。
He's not literally saying, "Only to forgive seventy-seven times," and that's it.。
That defeats the purpose of what He's saying.。
What He's really teaching them is that for the followers of Christ, there is no count.。
There is no number of times you forgive and then you're off the hook.。
But He wants you to go out there and continue to forgive.。
Don't keep track, don't keep score, you just forgive, and they sin against you, and you。
forgive.。
They sin against you again, and you forgive again.。
It's an innumerable forgiveness.。
That's what Christ is teaching His followers to do.。
Not to keep score, not to get even.。
And it's likely that the answer Jesus gives is actually a reference to a passage of the。
Old Testament Scriptures from the book of Genesis chapter four, where we see a descendant。
of Cain by the name Lamech, who is singing this song, so to speak, to his two wives.。
And it's a song of revenge that demonstrates how great his vengeance is against those who。
sin against him.。
And so this is what he says, "Ada and Zillah, listen to me, wives of Lamech, hear my words.。
I have killed a man for wounding me, a young man for injuring me.。
If Cain is avenged seven times, then Lamech seventy-seven times.。
And sometimes, if we're being honest, this is how we feel.。
Someone hurts us, they're in for it.。
They're going to get it.。
Whatever you do to me, I'm going to get you back with everything you gave me and then。
some, because I want revenge.。
I want to get even.。
I want to make you feel how bad you made me feel.。
I'll teach you a lesson.。
But for the followers of Jesus Christ, this is, it shouldn't be this way.。
As a matter of fact, it cannot be this way for those of us who follow Jesus, because。
Jesus flips this entirely on its head.。
So it's not that when you are sinned against, offended, or hurt, that's an opportunity to。
display vengeance and to get revenge.。
For us, when we're sinned against, it's an opportunity to extend mercy and to forgive.。
And see, that is the standard of forgiveness, which Christ holds all those who call on His。
name.。
And this level of forgiveness, for some, for many, it is shocking.。
And for some people in our modern sensibilities, it's even offensive.。
Think about the story I opened with, this serial killer, this murder, just talking about。
that.。
Some of us just have a reaction where we're repulsed.。
And if you put yourself in the place of those families, it's very difficult to say that。
you would stand up and forgive someone who took the life of a loved one from you.。
It's offensive to suggest that you should forgive him, that you must forgive him.。
And so for many people in our world today, this level of forgiveness is extremely offensive.。
And I'm speaking from personal experience.。
I recall a time around 2018, 2019, there was a case in the news of a black man, his name。
was Botham Jean.。
And he was sitting in his apartment on the couch eating ice cream, and a white police。
officer opened the door and came in and shot him and killed him.。
She claims she lived in the same building, that she thought she was entering her apartment。
that he was an intruder.。
That was her defense.。
At the time, I didn't care.。
I didn't care what she said.。
She, in my brain, was a murderer and needed justice, because what took place was terrible.。
So, during the court case, when the judge gave the family of this slain man a chance。
to speak to his killer, what happened surprised me.。
His only brother stood up to the judge and when allowed to speak, he looked at this killer。
and he told the police officer, "I forgive you."。
And he went so far as to ask the judge, "Can I come from behind the stand and can I give。
her a hug?"。
And when I saw that, I was angry.。
I could not understand how you could forgive and embrace your brother's killer.。
And when I went to my dad about this, and we saw it on the news, he told me that what。
had taken place was actually beautiful, and that what the family did was the right thing.。
And at the time, I could not come to grips with that, that my dad, a black man, did not。
have that same anger I had at what took place.。
That forgiveness made no sense to me.。
And the truth is that at that time, I was not a Christian.。
I did not understand, I could not understand the forgiveness of Jesus Christ.。
It was offensive to me.。
It was infuriating to me.。
It baffled me.。
And this radical call to forgive still baffles many people today.。
And so, we want to know why.。
Why Jesus?。
Why such a high standard?。
Why is it so important that we forgive, that followers of Christ have to forgive like this?。
And this is a question that would have been on the minds of all those around that day。
who heard Jesus' answer given to Peter.。
Not seven, but 77.。
"Why, Jesus?。
Why is that so important?。
How could I possibly forgive that much?"。
And so, it's Jesus follows us up with a parable, explaining, giving an answer to those questions。
that we sometimes have.。
This is what he says, "Therefore, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished。
to settle accounts with his servants.。
When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him 10,000 talents.。
And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold with his wife and children。
and all that he had, and payment to be made.。
So the servant fell on his knees imploring him, 'Have patience with me.。
I will pay you everything.'。
And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave the debt."。
And so, what just happened here in this parable is unthinkable, especially to the people of。
that day who Jesus was speaking to.。
Utterly unthinkable.。
This large amount of debt that the servant owed to his master was uncountable.。
It was 10,000 talents.。
In that day and age in the Roman world, the talent was the largest denomination of money.。
You couldn't go any higher than that.。
Talents was, you can almost think of it in this way, talent, that amount of money was。
how you paid kings, how you dealt with prices of entire kingdoms.。
And the number, 10,000, was the largest number employed in the day.。
You couldn't think of, you couldn't write a higher number than 10,000.。
The Greek word for 10,000 is myrias, which I say that because that's where we get the。
word myriad, which is an incountable, innumerable amount.。
And so that's how much this servant owed his king, owed his master.。
And so to put it in kind of common terms, modern terms for us to understand, imagine。
a low-level worker who owed the CEO and founder of a Fortune 500 company, Google, Microsoft,。
Tesla.。
He owed him a billion dollars.。
We might use the word gajillion or bazillion, right?。
It's nonsense because it's so much money, there's no way in the world you could pay。
it back.。
And that's the debt that this servant had to his king.。
And because he owed him such an incredibly unpayable amount, the king's response was,。
we'll sell all you have and we'll sell you and your family into servitude.。
And at least I can regain a small fraction of a fraction of a fraction of a fraction。
of what you owe me.。
But in a move of total and utter desperation, the servant throws himself before the king。
and begs and pleads for mercy, claiming that, give me time, I'll pay everything back, which。
both he and the king knew was impossible.。
There's no way in the world that man could ever have enough time and do enough labor。
to pay back a debt of 10,000 talents.。
The king knew this.。
Yet for some reason, he was moved to pity this man and the king released the servant.。
And not only did he release the servant, but he took that enormous incalculable debt and。
erased it completely.。
This servant, this lowly servant, forgiven by a king, the servant who did nothing to。
earn this mercy, this incomprehensible debt, it's unheard of for that kind of thing to。
happen.。
And so for Jesus' audience, hearing that from Jesus, it would have been shocking.。
And then what happens next in the parable would have been just as shocking.。
So Jesus continues in the parable.。
But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a。
hundred denarii and seizing him, he began to choke him saying, "Pay what you owe."。
So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, "Have patience with me and I will。
pay you."。
He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt.。
Despite the complete mercy, the grace, the forgiveness that this servant had just received,。
he refused to give that same mercy to someone else who was in the same position that he。
was just in.。
Now it's worth noting that this hundred denarii is equivalent to about a hundred days' worth。
of wages.。
So the debt owed to the servant, it was not insignificant.。
That's a significant amount of money.。
But it is payable.。
And in comparison to ten thousand talents that were owed to the king, this one hundred。
denarii debt was, is not even worth comparing.。
Right?。
Ten thousand talents pales in comparison to a hundred denarii.。
But despite this, despite the fact that it was repayable, the mercy who had just received。
immense mercy and forgiveness, the servant punished the man, refused to pay him.。
And that reaction from the servant, it demonstrated that his heart was full of unforgiveness and。
full of wickedness.。
And so the scene actually plays out almost exactly parallel to the first.。
The man, the servant is brought before the one he owed the debt to.。
He pleads for mercy.。
But the difference is, he receives none.。
The servant is merciless to him.。
Even though the debt was way less, even though the debt could have been paid off, it didn't。
matter to the servant, who drags the man, throws him into prison.。
Jesus continues, "When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly。
distressed and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place."。
And so the servant's mistreatment and lack of mercy to his fellow servant, it was appalling。
and it was offensive.。
So much so that the other servants knew that what happened was wrong.。
And so their first response was to go straight to the king and tell the king what had just。
taken place.。
And we're going to see the king's response shows that he was just as deeply disturbed,。
even angered, by what took place.。
And so here's what happens next.。
"Then his master summoned him and said to him, 'You wicked servant, I forgave you。
all that debt because you pleaded with me.。
And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you?'。
And in anger, his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt.。
So the master rebukes him.。
He calls him wicked and delivers him over to the jailers where he will be tortured until。
his debt is paid off.。
Although he was at first abundantly merciful and forgiving the servant, now we see he has。
nothing left for the unforgiving servant but condemnation, contempt, justice.。
And the reason the king gives is that this servant did not demonstrate the same mercy。
he had just refused, received.。
And in doing that, in refusing to show that mercy, it's almost as if the servant holds。
in contempt the mercy he had just received.。
As if he is too good to show mercy.。
Better than the king was because the king showed mercy.。
And so Jesus warns his followers that just like this servant was brought before the king,。
rebuked, sent off to the jailers, Jesus warns his followers that it will be no different。
for them if they act as the unforgiving servant acted.。
And Jesus gives this very stark, very serious warning and it's a warning that extends to。
all of us today.。
He ends this passage by saying this, "So also my heavenly father will do to every one of。
you if you do not forgive your brother from your heart."。
Exactly what happens in the parable to the unforgiving servant, Jesus says that is exactly。
what will happen to you from God if you refuse to forgive your brothers and sisters from。
your heart.。
And so now Peter has his answer and now we also have ours.。
Why should we forgive?。
Why should we forgive those who hurt us, who offend us, who abuse or mistreat or misspeak。
about us?。
Is it not because we, like the servant, have been greatly forgiven by God?。
That is the entire point of Jesus' parable.。
And so you see, when you look at the parable, what does it all mean?。
What does it represent?。
We are the servant.。
We owe an unimaginable debt to God.。
Scripture teaches that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God.。
And that the wages of sin is death.。
So there's nothing we could ever hope to do, given all of time and eternity, to pay off。
our debt of sin to God, a righteous, holy, infinitely holy and good God.。
There's nothing we could do, no amount of good deeds, good works we could ever do to。
pay off that debt.。
Scripture teaches there's no one righteous, no not one.。
No one understands.。
No one seeks for God.。
All have turned aside.。
Together they have become worthless.。
No one does good, not even one.。
Elsewhere we see the prophet Isaiah writes that all our righteous deeds are like filthy。
rags.。
Nothing we could ever do could pay off our debt to God.。
But God is rich in mercy, abounding in steadfast love.。
He has forgiven us completely the debt of our sin at the high price, the high cost,。
not of denarii, not of talents, not of silver, not of gold, but of the precious blood of。
Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.。
So therefore, though our sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow.。
That is the forgiveness we receive from God in Jesus Christ.。
Our debt to God entirely wiped out.。
How then could we who know this mercy, we who have received this forgiveness, we who。
have believed in this Son, and we who profess this truth, how then could we turn around。
and withhold forgiveness from someone else, especially another brother or sister in the。
Lord?。
Remember that the debt that was owed towards the servant from his fellow servant, it wasn't。
insignificant.。
It was a sizable debt.。
And likewise, there are times when we are sinned against, when we are offended, and。
it is not insignificant.。
It does hurt us.。
It does cause issues.。
It's not a light thing, but God understands that.。
God understands our pain, our hurt, our feelings of betrayal when we are hurt like this.。
But you see, God in the person of Jesus Christ has experienced the same pain, the same hurt,。
the same betrayal.。
And so He can empathize with us, and He can give us the grace and the strength to show。
mercy to those people who hurt us.。
An important thing to note here too, and this is a very, can be a hard pill to swallow.。
It could be a difficult truth, but it is true nonetheless.。
No matter what anyone on this earth does to you, no matter how terrible their sin against。
you may be, it will never come close to how offensive and egregious your sin, my sin,。
our sin is to God.。
Because God is infinitely holy and pure and just and righteous.。
And so our sin against Him, way worse, incomparably.。
To try to compare the sin that we have towards God with the sin that someone has against。
us, it's pointless.。
Our sin against a holy God is both incalculable and incomparable.。
Yet in Jesus Christ, we have complete forgiveness.。
That is why we must forgive.。
It's because we have been greatly forgiven.。
It has been said that there is never a time you are more like God than when you forgive.。
Well, then the negative of that must also be true.。
There is never a time you are less like God than when you refuse to forgive, especially。
if you know that you have been forgiven by God.。
How many times have we all said this while reciting the Lord's Prayer, "Forgive us。
our sins as we forgive those who sin against us."。
That should be more than a few words we recite from memory here and there.。
It should be, for us, a way of life.。
It's more than a prayer.。
According to Jesus, it's a command.。
You know, we all know how good it feels to be forgiven when we have wronged someone.。
Even more than that, we know how great it is to be forgiven by God.。
So why would we withhold that forgiveness from a brother or sister who sins against。
us?。
Why would we hold a grudge?。
When you ask yourself, when you're honest, think about it this way.。
What has holding a grudge ever done for you?。
Has anyone ever held a grudge and it solved the problem?。
Has anyone ever held a grudge and it went back in time and it righted the wrong?。
It never does.。
It never helps.。
And although it might initially feel good, if we're honest, to be angry and to stir。
in that anger and think thoughts of revenge, of how I'm going to get back and how I'm。
going to hurt you because you hurted me, in the end, it only hurts us.。
It only makes us feel worse.。
I was here at Summit on Friday speaking with the middle school and high school students。
and I told them that holding a grudge against somebody, withholding that forgiveness, harboring。
that anger towards them, is like drinking poison and expecting the other person to die.。
It's ridiculous.。
It's totally ridiculous.。
How much more ridiculous is it then for us, those who have been greatly forgiven by God,。
forgiven more than anyone else in the world, to refuse to forgive someone else, especially。
a brother or sister in the Lord?。
Not only is it ridiculous, but according to Jesus, it is wicked.。
And what we see the King in this parable do is exactly what we know that God will do to。
those who refuse to forgive their brother or sister.。
It's true, God is a God of great mercy, forgiveness, patience, love.。
He is also a God of great justice.。
Hebrews chapter 10 verse 13 tells us this, "It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands。
of the living God.。
Yet those who have received the forgiveness found only in Jesus Christ have no need to。
fear.。
We should never forget, as Jesus teaches in Matthew 6, 15, "If you do not forgive men。
their sins, neither will your Father forgive yours."。
Brothers and sisters, if you leave here today and you only remember one thing that I say。
this entire morning, please let it be this.。
If we refuse to extend forgiveness to others, we should not expect God to extend forgiveness。
to us.。
Jesus speaks very clearly and forcefully on this matter.。
There's no ifs, ands, or buts about it.。
For the followers of Jesus Christ, forgiveness is not optional.。
It can't be.。
Now that's not to say, and don't take this to mean that our forgiveness is earning us。
God's forgiveness and that if we forgive, we earn God's forgiveness.。
That's not how it works.。
That's a misunderstanding and a misordering of forgiveness.。
But what it is is that if we truly have been forgiven by God, if we understand and believe。
all that Jesus Christ has done for us to earn our forgiveness, we would then, knowing that,。
be moved to forgive those who sin against us.。
We would have a new heart transformed by the Holy Spirit, which understands how much we've。
been forgiven and is quick to forgive those who sin against us.。
Yet if we refuse to forgive others, that may be a sign that we have not truly understood。
and believed the forgiveness of God in Jesus Christ.。
And that is a very dangerous place to be.。
So brothers and sisters, I plea with you, search your heart.。
Be honest with yourself.。
Be honest before God.。
Is there someone in your life who you cannot bring yourself to forgive, that you are not。
willing to forgive for some wrong they've done against you, some way they've hurt you,。
whether recently or in the past, whether it's a family member or a friend, a co-worker,。
a neighbor, a stranger?。
Is there someone that you cannot forgive?。
Now is the time to forgive them.。
And the chances are, for some of us, if not all of us in this room, there is some real。
serious pain and hurt that we've experienced, trauma we've been through.。
Give that pain to God.。
Give that pain to God.。
He understands it.。
He can bear that pain for you.。
And maybe you're like me and you think, "Well, I'm not the type to hold grudges.。
I don't do grudges.。
I don't hold grudges.。
I forgive people."。
Okay, but I challenge you to ask yourself, are you the kind of person who's quick to。
get angry?。
Yeah, maybe you're quick to forgive, but are you quick to get angry?。
Are you quick to have a bad mood because someone offended you at work, at home?。
Are you quick to become upset with a spouse for something they said or did or didn't do。
that you didn't like?。
Are you quick to have an attitude against them and think how you'll get back at them?。
Maybe it could be a stranger in traffic that cut you off and your first thought is, "Okay,。
I'm going to get around you and cut you off.。
I'm going to get in front of you now and see how you like it."。
Is that your disposition?。
Sometimes that's me.。
I'll be honest.。
That's a heart of unforgiveness.。
I don't hold grudges, but I ought to be quick to forgive because you see, God does not do。
that with us.。
He doesn't hold those sins against us and think about how to get back.。
So we should be quick to forgive because God is quick to forgive.。
When God forgives us, He forgives quickly.。
He forgives completely.。
He doesn't keep a record.。
"Okay, I forgive you this time, but next time I'll remember it because next time maybe there。
won't be a next time.。
We should not be like that."。
Because God forgives quickly and completely and without keeping a record of wrongdoing,。
so should we.。
So remember, all that Jesus Christ has done to forgive you your sin, remember how great。
your debt of sin is in the eyes of God and praise God that He has forgiven you.。
Praise the Lord Jesus Christ that He has shed His life's blood to purchase your forgiveness。
and in giving Him the glory for that forgiveness, for that changed life, that changed heart,。
forgive others.。
Please pray with me.。
Father, forgive us our sins as we forgive those who have sinned against us.。
Amen.。
