- The phone?。
- Oh, yeah.。
- All right.。
Brothers and sisters, I realized I didn't really。
have a chance to tell everyone a little bit about myself.。
And it's a good, I'm really happy to see。
you brothers and sisters in the church.。
And it's a little bit about me is like,。
James, man, James, I mean, that song,。
"The Power of Your Love" was like something。
that I haven't heard for a while.。
And it was the first time when Pastor Mark。
was my youth pastor, like close to 20 years ago.。
And then it was the first time in the retreat。
that I felt like God convicted me to change.。
I need to be different.。
I gotta be better.。
And that was the starting.。
I was like, wow, my Christian journey,。
especially that verse, "Where your will and foe。
"in our lives."。
I'm like, here we are.。
I graduated from Moody two years ago,。
a Master of Arts in Spiritual Formation and Cycle Ship,。
along with my beautiful wife right here, Shirley.。
And right now, we're getting ready。
for the mission field in Taiwan.。
Once Taiwan opens up, we get our visa,。
we're about to head out.。
So I learned a lot about being a missionary,。
but that's God's will in my life.。
From what I remember 20 years ago as a kid,。
as a high school kid, with my youth pastor,。
who's still my pastor right now.。
So I'm just very grateful to have a chance right here。
to share God's word with you right here.。
Let's pray together.。
Father, we thank you, Lord,。
for the time that you give us right here。
to focus on you, Lord.。
As you said, let tomorrow worry about tomorrow, Lord.。
Help us worry about today.。
And today is your day, Father.。
Help us focus, Lord.。
Holy Spirit, may you come into us.。
Help us not worry.。
Help us just focus on you to receive your words, Father.。
To receive, to see how great your salvation plan is,。
Father, for every one of us.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Hey, when I talk about the Cubs and the Sox,。
you have an idea what comes to mind.。
How about the Bears and the Packers, how about that?。
If you've been in Chicago for a while,。
you probably have a good idea, right?。
These are a rival.。
I mean, these are fans from opponent's side。
really hate the other team.。
I mean, these are just basically friendly rivals we see.。
But in society, as you know, there are many rivals.。
And these could be religious rivals,。
like Catholic versus Christian in general,。
like economic rivals, right?。
Are you lower class, are you middle class,。
or are you in upper class, right?。
Or other rivals like, oh, the school that you go to,。
that distinguish, kind of like signify your intelligence.。
And there could be family rival.。
So I wanna tell you a little bit about a family rival。
that I had last year.。
It happened during when my grandmother died,。
like last April.。
And she was like 90 something already, about the time.。
You know what the sad thing is that she died?。
But the saddest part is that all my uncles,。
when she wasn't even in her grave yet,。
they were talking about money.。
That's the rival.。
You guys know what I'm talking about, we're Chinese.。
Yep, we talk about money, and they became enemy.。
It's within these division。
that how Jesus established his church.。
So today's topic I wanna talk to you about。
is how did Jesus establish the church?。
So in the book of Ephesians, actually,。
Paul did not chastise these Christians for anything.。
It's more like an encouragement。
and laying out God's cosmic plan for them to understand.。
So in the beginning, he talk about God's plan in general,。
which involves our spiritual blessing.。
And in the beginning section of chapter two,。
he talks about how we are dead to our sins and transgression.。
Therefore, God, through Jesus Christ, made us alive.。
And then right now, we're gonna talk about the second part。
that is parallel to the first part.。
Within this, we're talking about another way。
how we are dead to Christ in a different standpoint.。
So in my first point,。
I wanna talk about hopelessness without Christ.。
How there's no hope without Christ.。
Let me start reading.。
Therefore, remember that formerly you who are Gentiles。
by birth and caught uncircumcised。
by those who cautimcise the circumcision,。
which is done in the body by human hands.。
Remember that at that time, you were separated from Christ,。
excluded from citizenship in Israel and foreigners。
to the covenant of the promise.。
Without hope and without God in the world.。
But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far away。
have been brought back near by the blood of Christ.。
So Paul start off by reminding these Christians in Ephesus,。
these Gentile Christians,。
there is a group called circumcision.。
Mainly, these are Jewish people。
who probably have accepted Jesus Christ already,。
but still thinks that circumcision is necessary.。
So they're saying these groups are mocking you guys。
because you are not circumcised yet.。
But the thing is that Romans and Greeks。
don't call themselves Gentiles.。
The only people that call themselves,。
call other people Gentiles are Jews, the Jewish people.。
So why is it so important to distinguish。
that they are Jews and those other people are Gentiles?。
So if you take a look,。
let's go back to the book of Genesis.。
This verse right here is basically the backgrounds。
where God and Abraham,。
God made a covenant with Abraham, an agreement.。
He's telling Abraham,。
all the nations on the earth will be blessed because of you.。
And this circumcision is this phrase。
that you are to undergo circumcision。
and it will be the sign of the covenant between me and you.。
This is a physical sign to show how they are different.。
But the problem is that a lot of times。
these Jewish people use,。
think of the sign as seeing themselves as superior.。
Like they are the special race.。
They have God with them.。
They are part of God's family.。
This covenant is telling them,。
we are part of God's family and you are not.。
So they think of the Gentiles as a lower race, outsiders.。
But when Paul is writing this,。
God, Jesus Christ, step on the cross,。
has redeemed us already.。
Therefore, the old order of the Judaisms,。
their external and material feature is outdated already。
because Christ came in and pushed in a new order.。
Therefore, if I go back here and you take a look,。
Paul specifically says,。
which is done in the body by human hand.。
What does that mean by human hand?。
Paul emphasizes because if it's by human hand,。
that means it's not from God.。
Therefore, what Paul is saying,。
he's mocking these people also,。
these circumcision, these Jews.。
He's trying to tell them,。
hey, you guys don't have the real circumcision either.。
Like, let's take a look what's the real circumcision.。
The same author of Genesis, Moses,。
he wrote through to Tyrannomy.。
He says,。
Circumcision is,。
God has to do the real circumcision through the heart。
where we have the ability to obey and follow his order.。
So how does Paul look at that, right?。
In Colossians, this is how he sees it.。
In him, you were also circumcised。
with a circumcision not performed by human hands.。
Your whole self ruled by the flesh was put off。
when you were circumcised by Christ.。
So as we know now, how does God circumcise us?。
It's through Christ.。
Christ has to come and die for us。
and change us into a new person.。
That is the real circumcision。
that's available to the Jews and Gentiles currently.。
(pages rustling)。
After talking about circumcision, the physical sign,。
Paul continues to remind these Gentile Christians。
in Ephesus about their former state without Christ.。
Why?。
This is to show them how blessed that they are。
at their current position.。
So this is what he says to these people。
before they know in Christ.。
Remember that at that time you were separated from Christ,。
excluded from citizenship in Israel,。
and foreign to the covenant of the promise.。
Basically, this is what Paul is saying.。
Israel has an advantage over you.。
The Jewish people have an advantage over you。
because they're part of God's family, but you are not.。
So it sums up basically this is what he's saying.。
The Gentiles, you don't have anything related to God.。
You're isolated from God, right?。
So the result comes at the second part of the verse.。
You are without hope and without God in this world.。
So if you take a look, verse 11 and 12,。
look so dark and gloomy for the Gentile。
in their former state before knowing Christ.。
But again, Paul states but in verse 13.。
But Christ right here made 180 turn again for them.。
You know, he says, "But now in Christ Jesus,。
"you once were far away, have been brought near。
"by the blood of Christ."。
Instead of being dead to our transgression,。
we were once far from God, but Christ brought us near.。
What does that mean?。
Bring us near means that we have access to God。
and that access is through the blood of Jesus Christ.。
And this gives me, helps me think of this illustration.。
Actually, it's also from Paul.。
He talks about a branch grafted in in Romans.。
And if you take a look, the lower branch,。
the main branch is very different from the top branch。
that is grafted in, you know?。
The top branch doesn't belong.。
And take a look at how this person。
attached these two branches together.。
It's by some sort of tape or something to glue it on, right?。
That tape is basically the blood of Christ.。
He used that to glue us into the main branch。
that we could be part of the same family.。
Therefore, have a great appreciation。
for what Christ did for us when we were far away from God.。
Therefore, he used his blood to draw us near.。
Now let's go to the second point.。
The second point is what Christ did to make the church.。
So for he himself is our peace,。
he who has made the two groups one。
and has destroyed the barrier,。
the dividing wall of hostility,。
by setting aside in his flesh the law。
with its command and regulations.。
His purpose was to create in himself a new humanity。
out of the two, thus making peace,。
and in one body to reconcile both of them to God。
through the cross by which to put to death their hostility.。
He came and preached peace to you who were far away。
and peace to those who were near.。
For through him we both have access。
to the Father by one spirit.。
So as we talk about how Christ in the previous point,。
he restored our relationship with God.。
So in verse 14, Paul starts out by emphasizing。
that Christ is our peace.。
But what does this peace mean?。
In general, peace means there is no hostility, right?。
Everyone get along.。
But how do you gain that peace?。
How did Christ gain that peace for them?。
Well, you had to join two groups into one.。
Those two groups that we know are the Gentiles and the Jews.。
So how did he go on doing so?。
The first, there is two things,。
that's one thing you have to do.。
Let me read it according.。
He had to destroy the barrier,。
the dividing wall of hostility by setting aside。
in his flesh the law with his commands and regulation.。
So this is referring to the Temple of Jerusalem, guys.。
So if you take a look, where I label Gentile,。
that's the outer court.。
That is as far as you can go if you're not Jewish.。
If you're a Jew, you could go into the inner court。
to worship God.。
There is actually a physical wall。
that divides the two people at a time.。
So, but the thing is that,。
that's only a manifestation of the Mosaic law,。
the regulations of the command.。
That's why Jesus had to come and abolish those commands.。
Those regulations and law, to tell you honestly,。
even the Jewish people, they can't meet themselves.。
That holiness is so high, the God standards is so high,。
that it's really impossible to meet in human standpoint.。
But besides separating these two groups religiously,。
there are also separated,。
the law also separated them socially.。
Because of this law,。
the Jewish people have to live according to,。
they don't live according to the custom of the world.。
So they kind of like lost communication in that point,。
but consequently at the same time,。
it gives the Jewish people that pride.。
They feel like the way how we live, we're superior.。
The way you live.。
But the thing is that at the end,。
Jesus came and abolished that law once and for all。
with his flesh to present his perfect sacrifice to God.。
So we don't have to worry about this anymore,。
these regulations.。
Now let's move on to the second part of verse 15 and 16.。
So as we move on,。
so the purpose of abolishing these hostility is twofold.。
First of all, in verse 15,。
the second part is to create in himself a new humanity.。
Basically,。
the rift between the Jews and Gentiles are too deep.。
You cannot put them together anymore.。
Think about in our country,。
you think about the political state right now,。
the two big parties, the Democrats and the Republicans,。
you can't even work together anymore.。
The only thing they could do right now。
is call each other name.。
We're lucky that our country's continued to function,。
seems like quite normally right now.。
Therefore, God has to push a new humanity.。
Within this new humanity, a new order, a new covenant。
has to be established by Christ.。
And as I said again,。
Jesus is the one that kind of present himself。
as an offering to reconcile human between human.。
So he reconciled the horizontal hostility,。
the horizontal dimension of the hostility.。
And as we go on to verse 16,。
in that new body is to reconcile。
both this new humanity to God.。
So his blood not just reconcile。
this our human to human hostility,。
it also reconcile the vertical dimension,。
our humanity to God.。
So as we talk about the reconciliation process,。
Paul now talks about the proclamation of peace from Christ.。
In verse 17, it says, "He came to preach peace."。
How does Christ preach peace?。
He did it by walking, by doing, by walking the talk.。
He was, he is our peace in verse 14,。
that says, "For he himself is our peace."。
Again, by using his body, the flesh, the blood,。
to bring, to end that hostility.。
And who are he talking to?。
Again, he's emphasizing the ones who are near,。
which are the Jewish people.。
They have, think about it,。
they have all the time, they have the temple,。
the laws, the worship regulation, the covenant,。
and the Gentiles, the ones who are far,。
they don't have anything.。
But Paul is saying, in verse 16,。
"Even though they have all these things, the Jewish people,。
"they still need reconciliation."。
Again, in verse 18,。
Paul continued to further the concept of peace.。
Besides just being right with God, we have access to God.。
We, as Jews and Gentiles,。
we stand as one humanity in front of God.。
And there is no distinction anymore,。
because it's just by one spirit,。
we have access to the Father.。
It stresses that oneness that we have, the new humanity.。
And within this new, excuse me,。
within this new humanity,。
I don't have to talk about my credentials,。
my spiritual heritage, my zeal,。
or my talent to access God.。
The only thing we all need to share in common。
to have access to God。
is believing in the redemptive work of Jesus Christ.。
This brings me, reminds me of this person right here.。
Do you know this person?。
His name is Jim Elliott.。
He was a missionary to Ecuador,。
especially to the Native American tribes in around the 1950s.。
He and his fellow companions, missionaries,。
have decided, "We must let these people hear the gospel."。
But the thing is that they know。
these Indians are hostile to foreigners.。
Yet they went anyway.。
What's the result?。
He got martyred.。
He and his fellow missionaries got martyred.。
Yet creating this hostility between their families。
and these Indian tribes.。
But instead of seeking revenge,。
their wives decided to continue on this mission,。
decided to go into these tribes and live with them,。
to walk out that gospel.。
At the end, bringing the gospel,。
bringing the conversion to these Indians,。
thus ending the hostility.。
Therefore, Jesus' work of redemption brings us this peace.。
We might have an understanding how hard,。
how much work he had to go through to start this.。
Now let's go on to our last point.。
What the church looked like.。
Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and strangers,。
but fellow citizens with God's people。
and also members of his household.。
Built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets,。
with Christ Jesus himself as the chief cornerstone,。
in him, the whole building is joined together。
and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord.。
And in him, you too are being built together。
to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit.。
So as a result of God's redemptive work,。
Paul's telling us our status in front of God has changed.。
And Paul wanted to talk about。
how this new humanity functions,。
which we will see the characteristics of the church.。
Paul starts out by using, again, the spatial relationship。
to show the differences before and now.。
He says, consequently,。
you are no longer foreigners and strangers.。
What does foreigner and stranger,。
when you think about that, what comes to mind?。
You live in a land that is not your own homeland.。
You live with the people who are not your people,。
who are not your tribe.。
So what does that mean?。
You are outsider.。
You don't belong.。
But Paul continues to elaborate.。
But fellow citizens with God's people。
and also member of his household.。
We are citizens.。
We are part of God's family right now.。
We are not second-class citizens.。
We are the same of the Jewish people.。
Or let's say this new humanity that Christ created.。
As stated in chapter one, verse five,。
God already said he has destined us。
for a daughter and sonship.。
This is the closest relationship。
that you can have with someone.。
But think about the process of you becoming our citizen,。
like the ones that have become, right?。
You have to come to this country.。
You have to become a good member for a couple years.。
Make sure you follow the law。
and be a good person in society.。
And then you have to study for a test.。
And then you make sure you pass the test.。
Then you might be able to become a US citizen.。
But what happen if I say,。
today the US president came to you personally and said,。
"You don't have to do any of that.。
"I will accept you in as a member.。
"At the same time, I will adopt you into my personal family."。
That is what the household of God looks like.。
Now in verse 20, Paul can you elaborate。
how this household is built upon, this universal church?。
He said, "It's built upon the foundation。
"of the apostles and the prophets."。
So the apostles, it's basically talking。
about the 12 apostles and Paul himself,。
who Jesus personally chose to proclaim the gospel.。
And how about these prophets?。
These prophets, based on this context,。
I would see they are not the Old Testament prophets。
because Paul in chapter three, verse five says,。
"The mystery of the gospel is not known。
"to any other generation until now."。
So I would say these prophets are the people。
along with the apostles who might have walked with Jesus,。
or these prophets are people that the apostles converted,。
and they continue to preserve the teaching of Jesus Christ,。
because if they don't continue to preserve the teaching,。
this new humanity will not have its foundation to rely on.。
But however, that's not the main and most important element.。
As Paul continue, he says, "Jesus Christ himself。
"as the chief cornerstone."。
As you see, Paul emphasize this point.。
He uses the word himself to tell。
that Jesus is the chief cornerstone.。
What does that mean?。
In the ancient world, the builders,。
the first stone that they lay is the cornerstone.。
That's the most important stone.。
It's the stone that gives the direction。
where the building's gonna go,。
and it determines if that building will be stable.。
And other stones are built upon this cornerstone.。
Therefore, Jesus ensure the stability。
of the system of salvation.。
As we continue on to the last two verses, 21 and 22,。
Paul continue to elaborate that we also are the stones。
along with the prophets by using the word you too,。
that we, well, for him, he's meaning the Gentiles,。
but we are the Gentiles too right now.。
We take part in building this temple too.。
Again, within those two verses, Paul is saying,。
"We are joined and built together。
"to construct this household."。
It gives us, symbolize the closeness。
that we have between believers.。
And it also shows us this church。
should be a continuous growing body。
because through our evangelism and discipleship,。
it should continue to be growing.。
And at the end, the last verse, it says,。
Jesus also dwells within his household.。
It shows that God and the people, the believer,。
we should have a close relationship also.。
But overall, Jesus is in charge。
of connecting all these stones.。
Therefore, he is responsible。
of retaining all these relationships, not us.。
But everything is emphasized on Jesus Christ himself.。
Everything is linked to him.。
The house functions probably only because of Jesus.。
We, the people, are the church.。
We're not talking about the building, but Jesus is the head.。
Now, this brings me to this picture.。
If you guys take a look, as you take a look,。
something's wrong with this building.。
This is actually a building that collapsed。
because of an earthquake that happened。
in 2017 in Mexico City.。
Actually, Mexico is known to be a place。
with a lot of earthquakes,。
so their building regulation is pretty rigorous.。
However, why so many buildings still collapse。
is mainly due to because of corruption.。
A lot of these engineers still sign off on that blueprint。
knowing that they do not meet the safety inspection.。
I mean, when glamorous time, when everything is fine,。
I mean, the building looks fine, right?。
But when hard times come, you can see what happens.。
But I could assure you,。
our Christian faith in the church。
has endured a lot of hardship and trial。
throughout the many centuries, right?。
Yet, it stands solid as a rock。
because who is our cornerstone?。
Jesus Christ.。
Therefore, we continue to be confident。
to place ourselves as rocks。
to continue to build this household, this church.。
In conclusion, let me get back to my story。
of my family few.。
My uncles, they're currently still enemies.。
They have a hatred toward each other,。
but from the way I see it,。
there's a sense of hopelessness in them.。
They don't know, they can't see the light。
at the end of the tunnel.。
Because there's no mediator for them to help them see it.。
But unlike my family member, unlike my uncles,。
the church has Jesus Christ as the cornerstones,。
brothers and sisters.。
He's the one that made the peace。
between human to human and with God.。
Therefore, we should have an attitude。
of profound thankfulness towards God。
because we are in a very, very privileged position。
as member of God's new community, which is the church.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we just wanna thank you, Lord.。
Just help us see the big contrast of where we were.。
We were not your family.。
We were cut off.。
We don't have any part of what the Israelites had.。
And our goal, the end point was hopelessness, Lord.。
But again, Father, Jesus changed that for us。
without us doing anything, while we were still his enemy,。
Lord, and he changed us and he put us as citizens。
right here along with everyone else。
who profess faith in Jesus Christ,。
where we get to build the church along with him, Lord.。
We thank you for this privileged position, Lord.。
Help the brothers and sisters right here。
have that, meditate on that, Father,。
that this position is not something。
that we could take granted for, Lord,。
but to be thankful every day of where we are,。
especially our status with you, Father God.。
We thank you so much.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
