Good morning, everyone.。
It's a frightening privilege to be here with you guys today.。
Before I begin, let's open in a word of prayer.。
Would you bow your heads with me as we pray?。
Heavenly Father, you have been so, so good to us.。
And sometimes, Lord, these words come out of us a little contrite.。
But God, you are the God, the creator of heaven and earth.。
From your word, there was light.。
And from your word, there was life in us.。
And so we come before you by the blood of your son, Jesus.。
Come humbly before your cross and ask that you would hear us, that you would know us。
and see us, that you would give us hearts that are softened to you.。
Ask that you would use this moment as we proceed to open our eyes to your word, to help us。
hear what it is that you have to say to us.。
For myself, Lord, I ask that you would guide my words, that you would help me speak good,。
sound doctrine, that you would protect the ears of my brothers and sisters from anything。
I say that is not of you.。
So we thank you, Lord.。
We praise you in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
So for those of you who weren't here the last time I spoke, we are in the book of James,。
which is a letter from James to the Jewish Christians of the dispersion, which are the。
Jewish Christians scattered away from their homeland.。
And what we find in James are instructions, instructions given to these Jewish Christians。
on how they should be living.。
They're given so that James' brothers and sisters would live wise lives, lives that。
are reflective of the gospel that they have received.。
And what we find in James is that wisdom is not just knowing a lot about stuff, a lot。
about stuff that's about life, but rather wisdom must also include practical application。
of what we know about our God into every area of our lives.。
This is a theme that will come up again and again.。
James writes with this idea in mind, that followers of Christ can't just be hearers.。
No, not just hearers.。
They must also be doers of the word.。
So if you have your Bibles with you, I ask that you would open with me to the book of。
James.。
The passage is also going to be on the screen.。
I'll flip through the slides for you.。
Today we will be reading from James chapter 2, verses 1 to 13.。
Again, that is James chapter 2, verses 1 to 13.。
Let's read.。
My brothers and sisters, believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ must not show favoritism.。
Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring and fine clothes and a poor man。
in filthy old clothes also comes in.。
If you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes and say, "Here's a good seat。
for you," but say to the poor man, "You stand there or sit on the floor by my feet," have。
you not discriminated amongst yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts?。
Listen, my dear brothers and sisters, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes。
of the world to be rich in faith and inherit the kingdom He promised to those who love。
Him?。
But you have dishonored the poor.。
Is it not the rich who are exploiting you?。
Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court?。
Are they not the ones who are blaspheming the noble name of Him to whom you belong?。
If you really keep the royal law found in Scripture, love your neighbor as yourself,。
you are doing right.。
But if you show favoritism, you sin and are convicted by the law as lawbreakers.。
For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all。
of it.。
For he who said, "You shall not commit adultery," also said, "You shall not murder."。
If you do not commit adultery but do commit murder, you have become a lawbreaker.。
Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom because。
judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful.。
Mercy triumphs over judgment.。
Now the amazing thing about James is that his instructions are very, very straightforward.。
Now look, my brothers and sisters, believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ must not。
show favoritism.。
To his brothers and sisters, James says, "Since you believe in Jesus, you must not show favoritism."。
It's right there.。
If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, you have no business showing favoritism.。
So what is favoritism?。
Does anyone know?。
Can anyone give me a definition?。
Okay.。
Well, I'll give you one.。
Favoritism is this practice of special treatment, okay?。
Special treatment of valuing things or people differently.。
And what often comes along with this word is that favoritism is unfair.。
I think most of us here have experienced favoritism or even shown favoritism at some point in。
their life.。
You know, sometimes it's the small things.。
Maybe it looks like going...it might look like certain lunch suggestions being more。
acceptable and then you never get to go where you want to go.。
It might look like the favorite food of your brothers and sisters constantly being eaten。
night after night because your parents love them very, very much and so you're stuck eating。
that food.。
Other times, it might look like conversations that are cut short or even avoided so that。
you can spend more time talking to your closest friends.。
It might look like excess friendliness to the professor who grades your papers.。
It might look like friendliness towards the person who writes your paychecks.。
But let's let James show us what favoritism looks like.。
I realize now that I did not keep going with the slides so you can read along with me.。
But that's okay.。
We're going to look at James chapter two.。
We're going to look at what favoritism looks like.。
We're given this scenario in verses two to four, right?。
Look with me there.。
Two to four where we find two men joining believers in their place of meeting.。
For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly and a poor。
man in shabby clothing also comes in, and if you pay attention to the one who wears。
the fine clothing and say, "You sit here in a good place," while you say to the poor man,。
"You stand over there or sit down at my feet," have you not then made distinctions among。
yourselves and become judges of evil thoughts?。
There's one man.。
He's dressed in fine clothes.。
His fine clothes are bright and shining, right?。
That's the description that's given about him.。
He wears this gold ring that lets everybody know.。
It announces how high his socioeconomic status is.。
The other is described as this poor man, a man in filthy old clothes.。
In contrast to the man in fine clothing, this man's unwashed, right?。
And his clothes are mismatched.。
It is easy to tell what rung of society he is on.。
Favoritism in this case looks like offering a good seat to the man wearing fine clothing。
while telling the poor man to stand there or sit where people are resting their feet.。
It's this honoring of the well-off man for his appearance, for his wealth, and this dishonoring。
of the poor man based on his lack.。
Doing this, James writes, is not only favoritism that believers must not show, it's also discrimination。
against yourself.。
And it makes you into a judge with evil thoughts, into a judge that judges poorly.。
Remember that the people James writes to are a scattered people.。
These are people who live in a foreign land.。
They are suffering under discrimination.。
They are greatly in need.。
And so the judgment that is being made towards the poor man and the treatment he's given。
in this what-if scenario is the very same treatment and judgment that they are receiving.。
This is important to remember because we're so quick to think, of course, favoritism is。
wrong.。
Anyone can tell you that.。
You should not discriminate.。
And you know what?。
It's not that difficult to avoid these things.。
We think about that so easily and so quickly.。
But think about these.。
Think about how helpful it would be to a poor group of people if someone with wealth and。
resources were to join them.。
Think about the extra burden that will be placed on this group of people just from having。
one more poor person join them, one more mouth to feed when you yourself have nothing and。
are struggling to feed yourself.。
You see, favoritism is tempting.。
Favoritism is very tempting.。
And James writes this to his brothers and sisters because this is a real and present。
problem.。
He talks about this because it's a real flaw in our character in Christians that keep us。
from being whole and complete in our entire being like Jesus.。
So then, how does James tackle this problem?。
If you look with me to verses 5 to 7, I'll actually turn the slide this time.。
It says, "Listen, my dear brothers and sisters.。
Has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and。
to inherit the kingdom He promised to those who love Him?。
But you have dishonored the poor.。
Is it not the rich who are exploiting you?。
Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court?。
Are they not the ones who are blaspheming the noble name of Him to whom you belong?"。
He starts to listen, right?。
"Listen," James says, "your attention right here, your attention on this," which is a。
rhetorical question, rhetorical meaning that this is a statement of truth that is disguised。
as a question, all right?。
"Has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith,。
to inherit the kingdom?"。
And reading this, the response of James' brothers and sisters is, "Yes, of course, God has chosen。
those who are poor in the eyes of the world."。
They can't say otherwise because, you see, these are Jewish Christians.。
The history of their people, of those who are tied to the line of Abraham is just filled。
with God's concern for the lowly and the needy.。
The literature of Israel is filled with this theme of God's love for the poor, for the。
widowed.。
God's blessings are even promised to those who care for the poor, who see the poor and。
reach out to them.。
Furthermore, what's even more than that is that the brothers and sisters in James, the。
audience to whom he writes, they are living proof of God's doing.。
God has chosen them, even though they were poor in the eyes of the world, to be given。
faith and to be heirs of God's kingdom.。
Instead of treating them poorly based on external appearance, God's attitude towards the lowly。
and the needy is that of compassion, of mercy, and of love.。
So yes, it's true.。
God cares for the poor in the eyes of the world.。
So then, to dishonor the poor is to go against God's attitude, to go against the will of。
God, to represent the opposite of God's will.。
What we find here is that believers in Jesus must not show favoritism because God does。
not show favoritism.。
Believers must not show favoritism because God does not show favoritism.。
God does not make judgment based on outward appearance.。
He looks at the heart.。
And so, James reminds his brothers and sisters of God's attitude towards the lowly and the。
needy.。
He reminds them of God's attitude towards them.。
And by keeping this in mind and remembering God's compassion, believers can overcome this。
temptation to show favoritism.。
But James does not just leave it there.。
He doesn't just leave that be.。
The issue with favoritism isn't just that it fights against God's compassion.。
You see, favoritism is a sin.。
This is the second point that we find in James, that believers in Jesus must not show favoritism。
because favoritism is sin.。
Let's look at verses 8 to 11.。
If you really keep the royal law found in Scripture, love your neighbor as yourself,。
you are doing right.。
But if you show favoritism, you sin and are convicted by the law as lawbreakers.。
For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all。
of it.。
All right?。
It's pretty straightforward.。
Believers that keep the royal law, right, they are doing right.。
They're doing well.。
But here's another question.。
What is this law?。
What is this law that he speaks of?。
This is the sovereign and royal law of God.。
It points to the law of Moses that is declared again by Jesus and fulfilled in Jesus.。
It points towards the commandments found in Leviticus chapter 19 of how God's people are。
to be holy, how they are to be set apart for him, and it points towards what Jesus declares。
to be the second most important of the commandments, to love your neighbor as yourself.。
In Leviticus 19, there is command after command given on how to treat those around you.。
Anyone and everyone you come into contact with in God's eyes is your neighbor.。
You see, favoritism is sin.。
Favoritism is transgression because both the poor man and the rich man are your neighbor.。
It's not enough to just keep the commandments of God in some ways or even most ways.。
Under the law, it is not good enough to almost be good enough.。
To stumble at just one point, at just one point, is to be guilty of breaking all of。
the law.。
The law requires absolute perfection, and we're not perfect.。
Nobody here can say that they are a perfect keeper of the law.。
If you understand this, then you are on the same page as James.。
Nobody can get to heaven through their perfect law keeping.。
The statement of absolute requirement of the law is placed here to remind James' brothers。
and sisters of who they are because they're not people who have perfectly kept the law.。
They are people who have had the law perfectly kept for them.。
They're not people who are crushed under the judgment of the law that condemns.。
No.。
James' brothers and sisters are those that are under the law that liberates.。
What does James want his brothers and sisters to do?。
Well, we see in verses 12 to 13, 12 to 13, what not showing favoritism looks like.。
This is what not showing favoritism looks like.。
It looks like speaking and acting, not as someone who is under the law that condemns,。
but as someone who is under the law that gives freedom, as someone who is under grace.。
It's the same reason that was given before in verse 5, because Jesus Christ did not show。
favoritism.。
He did not judge you based on your outward appearance.。
Instead, he saw you and he saw me in our helpless state.。
And in that moment where we expected judgment, where we deserved judgment, we were instead。
met with a deep and overwhelming compassion.。
Brothers and sisters, favoritism is such a poison to God's people.。
It damages relationships and it holds us back from spiritual growth without us even noticing.。
Because of the sin of favoritism, too many of God's people have found their church to。
be one of the loneliest, most disconnecting places they have ever been.。
To be surrounded by so many people while being unseen and unheard is just heartbreaking.。
And this cannot be allowed.。
We as believers of Jesus Christ cannot allow those who God has placed in our surroundings。
as our neighbors to remain separated and disconnected from the body of Christ.。
Believers in Jesus Christ, you are under grace.。
You were shown mercy.。
Your sin was washed away once and for all.。
And not only that, your identity is now more than a worldly measurement of ability or accomplishment.。
You were chosen, you were elevated, and now exist as an heir to the kingdom of God.。
And having been freed by this law that liberates, live as a child of God, as an heir to the。
kingdom of God.。
Let your entire being be affected by the mercy of Christ and do not judge your neighbor by。
their outward appearance.。
Let's reflect on James' instruction.。
Do not show favoritism because Christ did not show favoritism.。
Do not show favoritism because favoritism is sin.。
Instead, show mercy and show compassion.。
See your neighbor the way Jesus sees them, the way that Jesus saw you, and approach your。
neighbor just as Jesus approached you in his compassion.。
Let me close us in a word of prayer.。
Would you bow your heads with me?。
Heavenly Father, again we are here before you because of your mercy and your grace.。
Because you reached out to us and you pulled us close to you.。
You decided for whatever reason in your mind that you wanted us.。
And so to an unlovable people, you loved us and you made us lovable.。
And so I pray in this moment, Lord, for my brothers and sisters here, that you would。
lay your hand on them and that you would remove the calluses that they have formed.。
You would remove the calluses from their hearts and that you would renew their hearts and。
their minds to give them new eyes and new ears, to renew them, Lord, to display before。
them the glory of your cross and to overwhelm them with your love so that they might in。
turn be representatives of who you are, that they might live as people who are under grace.。
And so help them find peace in you, Lord, help them find rest in you.。
And help them live every single part of their life affected by what you have done for them,。
Lord.。
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
