Good morning family and welcome.。
I'm really excited that we're opening God's Word again together this morning.。
And this morning we're going to start looking at something new, a new study here for the。
next few weeks, and that is really looking at biblical examples of our response to God's。
goodness, our response as the people of God to God's goodness and God's work in our lives.。
And specifically this morning we're going to be focusing on gratefulness and on seeking。
to begin to have an attitude of gratefulness towards God.。
So I know this is going to be really good for me.。
Gratefulness is something that I always struggle with and something I need to focus on more.。
So I'm excited.。
I think it's going to be good for me and I pray that it'll be really good and encouraging。
for you as well.。
We're going to be looking in Exodus chapter 15 this morning.。
And Exodus chapter 15 is this song that's often called the Song of Moses and it's the。
song that the children of Israel composed basically extemporaneously on the spot, spontaneously,。
this song of praise and gratefulness to God just after they came through the Red Sea.。
So if you're not real familiar with this story, I'll kind of give a quick narrative of it,。
but you could look at these chapters in Exodus for yourself, especially chapter 14, which。
tells the story of the Red Sea.。
But the preceding chapters in the book of Exodus are the story of the children of Israel。
being delivered by God from the land of Egypt.。
And if you remember that story, the children of Israel, the Hebrew people, the Jewish nation。
are in Egypt.。
They've been there for generations and over time, what was originally a friendly relationship。
with the Egyptians has become an oppressive one.。
And so Pharaoh has enslaved the Hebrew people.。
And so they're slaves in Egypt and they're forced to do really hard labor to build for。
the Egyptians.。
And also Pharaoh decides that he doesn't want their strength to grow, doesn't want their。
nation to grow.。
And so he begins to kill their sons.。
And so it's a really, really terrible, oppressive situation, the children of Israel, the Hebrew。
people are in.。
They're God's people, but they're in a place of deep oppression and deep pain and deep。
hurt because they're enslaved and they're being treated unjustly in so many ways.。
And eventually God raises up Moses to be a deliverer to them.。
Moses goes and speaks to Pharaoh and tells Pharaoh that God wants Pharaoh to let his。
people go.。
And Pharaoh resists and says no.。
And so then Moses brings the plagues into Egypt, really God brings them into Egypt,。
but Moses is the messenger that continues to speak to Pharaoh and to the Egyptian leaders。
to tell them that God is bringing these plagues as a result of their rebellion against God。
and the fact that they won't let his people go.。
And so all these plagues come against Egypt.。
And again, if you're familiar with that story, you know what those are.。
If not, you can look at it and read it.。
But God does all these supernatural things basically.。
Some of them are very fearful and terrifying, but he does them to show the Egyptians his。
own power and to force Pharaoh to let the Hebrew nation go free.。
And so finally after the tenth plague, Pharaoh decides to let the Hebrews go and the entire。
Hebrew nation leaves Egypt and they go out into the wilderness.。
Well Pharaoh quickly changes his mind and says let's go get them.。
And at this time in world history, the Egyptian nation was really an empire, really a dynasty,。
and it was the most powerful empire on the face of the earth and they had the most powerful。
and fearsome army.。
And so Pharaoh says we are going to go and get the Hebrews and bring them back and put。
them back to work and enslave them once again for us.。
And he takes his enormous army to go get them.。
And as I said, this was the most fearsome army in the world and they had the best technology.。
They had chariots and other weapons of warfare that were the most advanced technological。
weapons that existed in the world at that time.。
And so this was a very scary army and by now the Israelites had journeyed down close to。
the Red Sea and that's where they were when the army of Pharaoh caught up with them.。
And God was leading them in a pillar of fire by night and a pillar of cloud by the day.。
So they are literally relying on God day by day for guidance and for leadership and for。
provision.。
Moses is leading them as a representative between the people and God, but God himself。
is leading them and protecting them.。
But when Pharaoh's giant army comes up behind them, they are terrified because they find。
themselves closed in with the sea on one side and this massive fearsome army with all of。
these weapons of warfare on the other.。
And they are afraid that they are just going to be destroyed and eradicated and killed。
and it seems like there is no way out.。
So they cry out to God for deliverance.。
God puts the thick cloud between his people and Pharaoh's army to keep Pharaoh's army。
away and then God begins to roll back the waters of the Red Sea.。
And as I said, this story is in Exodus 14.。
If you'd like to look at it, it's a really good story.。
God moves back the water so much that there are basically walls of water on each side。
with dry land in the middle and the Hebrew nation are able to walk across on dry land.。
And this is a large group of people by now.。
The Hebrew nation has grown very large and very strong during this time in Egypt and。
so it's a huge group of people.。
God holds back the waters long enough for them to get all the way across.。
It probably took all night for them to cross.。
And then God removes the cloud and the army of Pharaoh sees that the people are gone and。
sees the dry land in the middle of the sea and sees that they've been able to get out。
and decides, "Hey, we're going to pursue them."。
And begins to pursue and God lets back the water and the waters come rushing back in。
and destroy the army of Pharaoh.。
And so God in one miraculous event, he delivers his people and he destroys the enemy that。
are seeking to harm them and to kill them.。
So this is an absolutely amazing and miraculous event in the history of God's people.。
And immediately after this, when they're safe on the other side of the Red Sea, they begin。
to sing this song of praise.。
It's found in Exodus chapter 15.。
So let's read some of it.。
We're going to read the first 13 verses.。
It says this, "Then Moses and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying,。
'I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously.。
The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.。
The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation.。
This is my God, and I will praise him, my Father's God, and I will exalt him.。
The Lord is a man of war.。
The Lord is his name.。
Pharaoh's chariots and his host he cast into the sea, and his chosen officers were sunk。
in the Red Sea.。
The floods covered them.。
They went down into the depths like a stone.。
Your right hand, O Lord, glorious in power, your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy.。
In the greatness of your majesty you overthrow your adversaries.。
You send out your fury.。
It consumes them like stubble.。
At the blast of your nostrils the waters piled up.。
The floods stood up in a heap.。
The deeps congealed in the heart of the sea.。
The enemy said, 'I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil.。
My desire shall have its fill of them.。
I will draw my sword.。
My hand shall destroy them.'。
You blew with your wind.。
The sea covered them.。
They sank like lead in the mighty waters.。
Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods?。
Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders?。
You stretched out your right hand.。
The earth swallowed them.。
You have led in your steadfast love the people whom you have redeemed.。
You have guided them by your strength to your holy abode."。
And I think there's just so much powerful truth in this passage for us about how to。
be grateful and how to learn to celebrate and reflect on and appreciate the goodness。
of God in our lives.。
The first thing I want us to see here is that when we experience God's goodness in our life,。
when we go through something that causes us to reflect on God's goodness, we first of。
all need to really place our focus on God.。
I love that about this song.。
This is the song, like I said, it's often called the song of Moses, but this song doesn't。
talk about Moses at all.。
It doesn't talk about the Hebrew nation at all, really.。
I mean, it does some as their relationship to God, as the people of God, but it doesn't。
talk about them and their strength in any way.。
It just talks about God and how powerful He is.。
The focus in this is clearly on God because of the things that He has done.。
And I think that's a really instructive thought for us when we go through things in our life.。
A lot of times when something good happens and we experience God's goodness in some way,。
we begin to credit ourselves and we think, "Yeah, this happened because I did a great。
job.。
I figured something out.。
I tried harder.。
I worked harder.。
I am smarter than other people."。
We begin to credit ourselves or maybe we credit other humans around us and say, "Well, it。
happened because this person that's my friend or my family member or this person that I'm。
associated with in some way, they're really good at this."。
And that is true.。
God gifts us and He gifts the people around us.。
And it's certainly good for us to lift up the people around us and encourage them and。
cite their roles in any success that we might have.。
But we have to be honest and begin to credit God.。
In these verses you see again and again it talks about who is the strength in the song.。
That's the Lord.。
Who is the one who is worthy of praise?。
That's God.。
Who's the one who has triumphed?。
It's the Lord.。
Who is glorious in power and defeats the enemy?。
That's God and His right hand.。
The focus is clearly on God.。
And so many times when something good happens, when we get that promotion that we've been。
praying for, we do well in school and we finally graduate, or we get that degree that we've。
been working for for so long, or we graduate high school, or we get a new place to live,。
a new apartment or a new house, or we get a new car, you know, all those things that。
we pray and ask God for and we desire.。
And then God brings those things into our life.。
And then suddenly we just think that we did it ourselves and we forget to credit God and。
to begin to praise Him and to begin to focus on Him.。
And you know, what's even more sad than that is oftentimes good things happen and we simply。
don't consider God at all.。
Sometimes we just take things for granted.。
Like it's just a coincidence that something happened in our life.。
Like it's just a coincidence that that relationship in our life was restored.。
It's just a coincidence that our health was preserved in some way.。
We just act like all those things are coincidences.。
I think it's pretty clear when you look at Scripture and the way God cares for His people。
that that's not the case.。
God is at work and He is doing good things for His people.。
And so we need to recognize that.。
And we shouldn't just assume that everything's a coincidence or that it just worked out that。
way because, you know, we're a little bit better, a little bit smarter than someone。
else.。
We should say, "Hey, this good thing that happened in my life, this is because of God.。
And I believe that."。
Especially if it's something that we prayed and asked God for.。
How self-absorbed are we if we pray and ask God for something and then He provides it。
in our life and we turn around and never say thank you and we just act like, "Yeah, this。
was supposed to happen anyway," or, "I expected this because I'm so great."。
And we never give the credit that is due to God.。
We've got to learn to begin to do that more and more in our lives.。
And we've got to learn to just start to pay attention to God's work.。
Sometimes we're just ignorant of the fact that God is at work.。
We don't even see it because we're just not paying attention.。
Or sometimes even worse, we have an attitude of entitlement and maybe God does something。
really good in our lives and we just say, "Well, yeah, of course that's supposed to。
happen.。
You know, it's supposed to work out that way for me because I'm a good guy.。
I worked hard for this or this is what I deserve.。
And so of course I was going to get that."。
And again, in all those different ways and circumstances, we forget to focus on God.。
We forget to give Him credit for what He's doing.。
We forget to praise Him and to thank Him for all of the good things that He does in our。
life.。
And you know, another important thing that's really essential for us to do in order to。
be grateful is to begin to place our focus on God's work and on what God is doing in。
our lives.。
And this is huge, especially in the midst of times of life where we may not readily。
see the goodness of God.。
I understand that sometimes we say, "All right, I have no problem praising God and。
thanking God when God does something good in my life and when I can readily see God's。
goodness."。
And some of those examples I just gave and the last point are more examples of times。
that we can readily see God's goodness.。
When we get a promotion or we get a new car or when we graduate, it's a lot easier for。
all of us to say, "Wow, this is cool.。
This is good.。
I'm so grateful to God," when something is going well in our life.。
But the reality is even when things don't feel like they're going well in our life,。
God is at work and God is always at work for His glory and for our good in so many different。
ways.。
And so we've got to learn in all circumstances of life, especially those difficult circumstances,。
those trials, those challenges, those difficulties, we've got to learn to put our focus on God's。
work and to say, "What is God doing here?"。
And there are things going on in my life right now, even though it may not feel great, there。
are things going on that God is using and God is working and God is doing something。
and I can be grateful for that, even if the circumstance that I'm in the midst of doesn't。
feel great to me right now.。
We've got to put our focus on God's work.。
You know, we can do that by beginning to seek out areas of God's goodness in our lives.。
I think we see this in the passage that we read here in Exodus 15.。
Look at these verses where it talks about what God is doing.。
It's talking about how God is, verse 7, God is overthrowing the adversaries and verse。
8, it talks about God standing the waters up and in a heap, piling the waters up.。
And verse 9, it says, "The enemy said, 'I will pursue, I will overtake.'"。
This is not just some overly rosy picture of the goodness of God that just says, "Yeah,。
we were walking through the park and everything was great and everything was fantastic, so。
we're going to praise God."。
This passage is saying, "No, we thought we were going to die.。
The enemy was pursuing us and about to overtake us, and the enemy was saying that they were。
going to kill us with their sword and take the spoil, and that we were going to be destroyed."。
This passage makes it clear that this was a dark, challenging time.。
This was a time of real difficulty in the life of God's people.。
But even in the midst of that, God was at work.。
And so we can find those times and those places in our life where God is at work, even when。
it's challenging.。
We may have to search for it a little bit.。
We may have to seek it out and say, "Okay, the circumstances are tough right now, but。
I believe God is at work, and I'm going to look for the areas where God is at work in。
my life."。
And if we'll begin to seek those out, we will begin to find areas that God is working and。
we can begin to praise God for.。
Even when we're experiencing those trials and difficulties, we can be grateful.。
We can be grateful for God's presence.。
I've been through some difficult times in my life.。
My wife and I have been through some very difficult circumstances, and the loss of family。
members and different things that we've walked through, different challenges that we've walked。
through.。
And I can tell you, honestly, there's been a lot of times in the midst of those experiences。
where it didn't feel great to me, or it didn't feel great to my wife.。
And where we've gone through those times of saying, "Wow, this does not feel good right。
now."。
There have been times when we've said, "You know, pretty much none of what we're going。
through right now feels good.。
Nothing feels good right now."。
But even in those moments, we can be grateful for the presence of God and for the nearness。
of God.。
And we can say, "You know what?。
Even though nothing feels good right now, and I'm discouraged, and I'm experiencing。
loss, and I'm experiencing grief, and I'm experiencing all of these challenging things,。
I'm so grateful that God is with me in this grief.。
I'm so grateful that God is with me in this loss.。
I'm so grateful that God is with me in this discouragement, in this setback, in this challenge."。
Because if God was not here, I would be completely alone, and I would be completely in the dark。
and lost on my own.。
So even if we're in the toughest moments of our life, and nothing feels good, and everything。
seems to be going wrong, I get it.。
That happens.。
That's real.。
And even in those moments, we can be grateful for the nearness of God, the presence of God。
that is with us, that sustains us.。
We can be grateful for God's people, even in those challenging times.。
God put us in this family called the church, and one of the things that we're supposed。
to do is love one another and care for one another, support each other, encourage one。
another, and hopefully we're doing that for each other.。
Hopefully there are people in your life who love you and who care for you and support。
you when you go through challenges, and you can be grateful for that.。
You can say, "God, I'm grateful for the people you've put in my life.。
Even during a time of illness or during a time of grief, I'm grateful that these people。
are here.。
I'm grateful that you're using them to encourage me and to build me up."。
We can be grateful for God's sanctifying work in our life.。
That word "sanctification" is just a church word that means that God is purifying us.。
He's changing us and making us more like Jesus.。
He's taking away some of those things, those impurities, those things that are not healthy。
for us, those bad habits, that selfishness.。
He's slowly taking that stuff out of our heart and out of our life and slowly turning us。
more and more like Jesus so that we can begin to truly love others and truly be unselfish。
and truly be focused on the right things in life.。
The honest reality is in my life and I think in the lives of most believers, that sanctifying。
process works best when we're going through some suffering.。
It's hard for us on a bright sunny day when everything is going our way to be unselfish。
and to be humble and to really care for others and to really focus on God because everything's。
great.。
But when we're going through something difficult, suddenly it's so much easier for us to see。
our need for God and to focus on Him and to be humble and to love and care for others.。
That sanctifying process a lot of times works best in times of struggle and in times of。
suffering and in times of trial.。
We can be thankful for that.。
When we're going through something difficult, we can say, "You know what?。
This doesn't feel good and I don't love being in this moment, but God, I'm so grateful that。
You're using it to work in me to make me more like Jesus, to strip away some of that unhealthy。
stuff, some of that stuff that causes me to be focused on myself, some of that stuff that。
causes me to be self-destructive in the choices I make or causes me to make choices that harm。
the people around me.。
God, I'm so grateful that You're changing me and taking that away and making me more。
like Christ."。
Because if you're going through a challenge, if you're going through a trial, if you're。
going through a difficulty and you're a follower of Jesus, then I guarantee you that God is。
using it in your life to try to get you closer to Him because that's what God does.。
We can be grateful for that sanctification that happens in difficult moments.。
We can be grateful for God's strength and grace.。
I don't know if you've ever gone through something challenging that you look back on and say,。
"I don't know how I got through that.。
I've had experiences like that."。
And the truth is that God gives supernatural strength and grace to His people when we go。
through really difficult times of challenge and of grief and when we're stretched to the。
limit and we just feel like, "I don't even know if I can make it."。
God is there with us in those moments and He carries us and He gives us strength and。
grace.。
And we can be grateful for that.。
We can say, "You know what?。
The challenge I'm encountering right now doesn't feel fantastic, but God is getting me through。
and I'm thankful for the strength and the grace that He's giving me, He's sustaining。
me with."。
And we can be grateful for that growth.。
God uses challenges and trials and afflictions to change us and to grow us.。
Just like you won't strengthen your muscles, your physical muscles, without kind of stretching。
them and straining them a little bit.。
That's literally what we do when we go work out at the gym or we work out hard in any。
other way, is we stretch and strain our muscles a little bit so that they'll become stronger.。
And God does the same thing with us spiritually.。
A lot of times He has to take us through something that stretches us and strains us a little。
bit in order to strengthen us so that we can grow and be stronger than we were before.。
And we can praise God for that.。
Even in a tough time, we can say, "God, I thank You and praise You that You stretched。
me, that You strained me, and that You're growing me."。
The next thing that I think is really important to help us begin to practice gratefulness。
in our response to God's work in our lives is to intentionally celebrate God's goodness.。
When God does something good and we begin to notice that, we begin to see God's work。
in our life, and we begin to see God's goodness in that work when we say, "Okay, I see God。
at work, even in my difficulties.。
And I'm paying attention and I've searched out for God's goodness.。
And I do see it, even in this difficult time, I can still see how God's working."。
Or maybe in this really good time, I can see how God's working.。
God blessed me and He brought this wonderful thing into my life, and I see God's goodness。
there.。
Once we see it, and once we see how God is working, we should begin to intentionally。
celebrate it and to say, "You know what?。
I'm not just going to notice it, I'm going to celebrate it.。
I'm going to begin to thank and praise God for His goodness."。
And you might say, "Well, what does that look like?。
What does it look like to thank and praise God for His goodness?"。
Exactly what it sounds like.。
You begin to thank God.。
You can thank God in your prayers, silently.。
You can thank God verbally and say, "God, I thank you for what you're doing in my life.。
God, I thank you for the way you've saved me, for the way you're changing me, for the。
way that you're growing me into a new creature in Christ.。
God, I thank you for the blessings that you've given me.。
I thank you for my family, for my community, for my church, for all these different things."。
That's what it sounds like, thanking God.。
And obviously we know that the church has a long and beautiful tradition of praising。
God in song, just like here in Exodus 15, where we lift our voices in song to thank。
God, to praise Him, to exalt Him, to talk about how good He is, how great He is, and。
how grateful we are for what He does in our lives.。
And that's a beautiful way to praise God, is to praise God in song.。
You can do that by yourself.。
You can do that in a church service with other believers.。
You can do it when you're driving in the car or when you're in the shower.。
You can sing anywhere and thank and praise God.。
And that's a good way to intentionally begin to celebrate God's goodness in your life.。
And so I hope that you're doing that.。
But you can also take a break from the busyness of life to celebrate and reflect and praise.。
And I think this is really important.。
Sometimes we do see God's goodness and we say, "Okay, that's something I know I need。
to praise God for."。
But our life is so busy that we just kind of go on by, and then a week and a month later,。
we've kind of forgotten about the good thing that God did.。
And we see this example throughout Scripture, and we see it clearly in the Old Testament.。
We see it clearly here in Exodus 15.。
They got a cross and they were safe, and the people who were trying to kill them were destroyed.。
They could no longer chase after them.。
And they didn't just say, "All right, on to the promised land, on to the next thing.。
Let's get to the next spot."。
They said, "No, we're going to stop.。
We're going to take a break, and we're going to sing and dance here on the shoreline and。
praise God for what He's done and for how He delivered us and for His goodness that's。
been at work in our lives."。
And like I said, we see that throughout the Old Testament.。
God clearly tells His people so many times to do that.。
I think we need to practice that.。
As modern believers, especially in the U.S., that is not something we practice well.。
Our lives are so busy, and it's all we can do just to find some time to get to church。
and to sing two or three songs.。
But we don't take breaks from the busyness of life to just praise God, to just reflect。
on how good He's been and to just thank Him for it.。
And we need to do that.。
And that's something we should practice.。
If you're a single person, you should practice that and say, "Hey, I'm going to take a break。
from my work schedule, from my friend relationships, so that I can just reflect on God's goodness。
and begin to praise Him for it."。
And you can do that with other people.。
You can do it with friends.。
You can do it in the company of others.。
But take a break.。
If you're a married person, especially if you have children, say, "Hey, we as a family,。
we're going to take a break because God did something big in our lives, and we want to。
stop and we want to celebrate it.。
Maybe it's just for a few hours.。
It's a special dinner.。
Maybe it's a half day or a day off."。
But take a break from the busyness of life and say, "You know what?。
I'm going to celebrate what God has done.。
I'm going to reflect on it.。
I'm going to think about it.。
I'm going to consider how good God has been in my life.。
And I'm going to talk about it.。
I'm going to praise Him.。
I'm going to thank Him for what He's done in my life."。
And you know, God has given us so many things in our life that sadly a lot of times, like。
I said, either we take for granted or we're just not grateful for.。
And all of us have things to thank God for.。
You may say, "Well, you know, life's been tough, and there's some things going on in。
my life that are challenging right now.。
And so it's hard for me to feel like praising God."。
But the reality is all of us have things that we can praise God for.。
So I want to think about a few of those things as we close out and just give us some reasons。
that we can praise God.。
You know, God has given all of us as humans special talents and gifts and abilities.。
And we can thank and praise God for those things.。
You have special talents and gifts and abilities.。
Maybe they're artistic.。
Maybe they're creative.。
Maybe they're music.。
Maybe they're analytical.。
Maybe they're scientific.。
Maybe they're kind of interpersonal.。
Maybe you're really good at relating to other people or you have a great sense of humor.。
Whatever those things are, you can thank and praise God for those.。
And it's easy for all of us to look at the talents and gifts that other people have and。
feel like we wish we were someone else and we wish we had their talents and forget about。
the beautiful talents and gifts that God has given us.。
So you can and should praise God for who He made you to be and all the talents and gifts。
that He's poured into your life.。
Another thing that all of us can praise God for right now is some of the freedoms that。
we enjoy in our country.。
Today is July 4th.。
It's a day that we celebrate the beginning of our country.。
And we can all thank and praise God for the freedoms that we enjoy in the United States.。
Obviously, our country is not perfect by any stretch of the imagination.。
There's still a lot of problems and a long way to go.。
But we do have a lot of freedoms here and people have a lot of good blessings in our。
nation.。
And I think that's something that we can praise God for and be grateful for.。
And we should praise God and be grateful for.。
We can be grateful for COVID-19 being on the decline here.。
I think that's something huge.。
As I talked about earlier, there's so many things we take for granted that God does.。
And I think it's easy for us to forget that a year ago and a year and a half ago, we were。
really worried about this illness and that we were praying and crying out to God for。
deliverance that God would deliver us and deliver our families and deliver our communities.。
And God has answered those prayers in many ways.。
And I don't say that to diminish the fact that there's still sick people.。
I understand that.。
And we need to continue to pray for those people.。
And especially in other parts of the world where there's still higher levels of disease,。
we need to be praying for those places desperately.。
But we can also celebrate and thank God that He's brought about so much deliverance from。
this pandemic and that a lot of things are reopening and people are healthy and so many。
people have been able to take the vaccine and there's much less disease and much less。
death.。
Hey, we prayed and we asked for that.。
And God has answered that prayer.。
And we need to give credit to God.。
Obviously, God used a lot of humans to do that.。
And that's fine.。
We should thank them too.。
But we need to give credit to God and we need to praise Him for deliverance from this pandemic.。
Just like the children of Israel in Exodus here, we're praising God for deliverance from。
a fearful moment.。
We can praise God for deliverance from a fearful moment.。
We can praise God for the beautiful summer weather.。
I hope you've been enjoying the weather lately and getting outside.。
And that's something we can praise God for.。
We can praise God for the simple things like the fact that He gives us food and shelter。
and clothing and meets those basic daily needs in our life.。
We can thank God for a lot of other beautiful things that He pours into our life that are。
so enriching.。
We can thank God for life itself and for the beauty of being able to be alive and for the。
health that He gives us.。
We shouldn't take that for granted.。
The fact that God wakes us up every day and that we have a measure of health.。
Some of us may feel healthier than others, but all of us have some measure of health。
that God gives us.。
As long as we're here alive on this earth, we have some measure of health.。
And we should be thankful for that.。
We should be thankful for the beauty of family and of love and of relationships with other。
human beings that God has given us.。
That is something that enriches our life in an unspeakable way and something that is just。
so amazing to experience.。
And it's hard for us to describe.。
I can't describe the beauty of that as I speak about it right now.。
What the beauty of the relationships in my life, my marriage, my relationship to my wife,。
our relationship to our children and the love that we have for them and so many other friends。
and family members that we enjoy a relationship with.。
That's a beautiful thing.。
We can thank God for that.。
We can thank God for the community of the church that we spoke about earlier, that community。
of His people that He's placed us in where we love each other and care for each other.。
That's a beautiful thing.。
And we can thank God for that.。
We can thank God for the beauty of nature.。
I am amazed by the beauty of nature and by the diversity and the creativity that is displayed。
and just all of the beautiful things God has made.。
I love to see it.。
I love the mountains.。
I love the ocean and kind of everything in between.。
And it just fills me with a sense of awe and gratefulness to God.。
I love to look up in the night sky and see the stars and just be filled with that sense。
of awe and gratefulness to God.。
God has put so much beauty in our world.。
And He didn't have to.。
He made it all gray and beige and really boring.。
But He didn't.。
He made it beautiful and amazing.。
And I'm so grateful for that.。
And we see so many beautiful things, even that God allows us as humans to make.。
We see artistry and creativity that humans express themselves.。
We can be grateful for that.。
We can be grateful for the beauty that we see.。
We can be grateful for culture and food and all the simple pleasures of life, sitting。
down with our family to enjoy a meal or to do something that is fun or listening to someone。
tell a really good story or something that just causes us to laugh watching a child play。
or something like that.。
Those are all beautiful things that we should be grateful to God for.。
He's poured so many blessings into our lives, even in the small moments of life.。
And we often miss them because we're focused on what we don't have.。
We're focused on what we want.。
And we don't see all of the goodness that God has already put in our lives.。
And we should certainly be grateful for God's love for us and the way He loves every one。
of us made in His image and the way He sent Jesus to die for us.。
The salvation, the grace and mercy and forgiveness that God has extended to us, that because。
of Jesus we can be forgiven, we can be made clean.。
All the mistakes we've made can be forgotten and put behind us.。
Wow, that is something to praise God for.。
That's something to be thankful for.。
We can praise God for the rest of our lives and into eternity just for that alone.。
There is so much to be thankful for in God's love for us and in the salvation that He's。
extended to us.。
We can be thankful for the nearness of God, as we spoke about earlier, in those trials。
and those difficulties that God is always present with us, even when life is challenging.。
And one of the things we can be thankful for is God's truth.。
You know, we just spent a year studying through the Sermon on the Mount and the values of。
the kingdom.。
I am so grateful for the values of the kingdom.。
I'm so grateful that God revealed His truth to us.。
Without it we would be lost and we'd be fumbling around in the dark and hurting ourselves and。
hurting everyone else.。
I'm so grateful for God's truth and that He's expressed it to us and He's told us how we。
can live and please Him and be in right relationship with Him and right relationship with others.。
I am so grateful for that.。
The point is, there are so many things that all of us can be grateful for.。
Even if in the moment things don't feel good and we think, "I don't know how much to be。
grateful for," we do.。
And we've got to learn to begin to live out gratefulness and to practice it in our lives.。
This is a great start to begin by placing our focus on God, placing our focus on the。
work that He's doing in our lives and all the good things that He's doing, and being。
intentional about celebrating God's work and God's goodness in our lives, stopping our。
lives, taking a break from the business just to reflect and just to praise and to thank。
God for who He is.。
Let's pray.。
God, I thank You right now for Your goodness and Your greatness in our lives, God.。
You are so great and You're so powerful and so amazing.。
And we see that so clearly when we look at the world and we see the amazing beauty of。
nature, but we see it so clearly when we look at each other and see the amazing intricacy。
of the human life, not just of our human body, but of the human soul and our emotions and。
all of the depth and the layers of that, God.。
It's mind-blowing.。
That's such a beautiful thing, God.。
You are so great and so powerful to make all of that.。
And yet You are also so good and You love us and You've extended us forgiveness and。
salvation and You've sent Your Son incarnated into this world so that we could have relationship。
with You and You've taken on our flesh and gotten on our level and come into our world。
so that we can know You because You are so good, God.。
God, we praise You for that.。
We lift You up.。
We thank You, God.。
We haven't done anything.。
It's all You, God.。
And there is no one like You.。
There is no one like You in all of the universe, God.。
And we just want to profess and proclaim that today.。
And God, I pray that You'd help us to begin to reflect on and understand that and to think。
about it every day, to not take Your goodness for granted, but every day to be grateful。
and to be thankful and to intentionally celebrate how good You are, God.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
