And today we'll have Pastor Mark.。
Good morning everyone.。
Very good to see you and let's turn to our series on next and this is the fourth sermon。
in our next series and remember this jar?。
You know you got some items here and we wanted what we want to do in this series to trace。
the grand story of the Bible from beginning to the end from Genesis to Revelation and。
every you know week and we push on this sermon we find that the same God is being introduced。
in the entire Bible in the entire story which is a God of mission and God is reaching out。
to us and he is not waiting for us to reach out to him.。
And I think to most people when you think about God or gods you know or even for the。
ancient people the gods and the goddesses especially in the ancient Near East people。
would think that we have to build massive temples and like you know God is on the mountain。
and we have to perform we have to do something to reach out to God.。
In much of the same way if you have some religious background especially you know in my case。
Chinese folk religion background the gods as people imagine them are distant and transactional。
and the gods stay up there on the mountain and you have to go up there you have to climb。
and that is the arrangement between God and man.。
But as we come to our passage today 25 Exodus 25 you find that there is a totally different。
concept of God the picture is totally different because God says in Exodus 25 it says God。
tell the people of Israel to have them make a sanctuary make a home for me and I will。
dwell among them and make this tabernacle the tent so all the furnishings exactly the。
pattern I will show you.。
So you see the contrast the totally different concept of who God is you know the God of。
the Bible is the God who dwell among us he comes from above to dwell among us so it's。
not me to build a temple so I can climb up there to meet God but that I God says I want。
to live with you and I want to come down I want to descend and that is the most radical。
statement in religion.。
So we come to a really long section in the Bible in the book of Exodus 25 to 40 and remember。
God promised the patriarch Abraham that he would have descendants like the number of。
grains of sand and then God saved the people out of Israel and brought them to the mountain。
and gave them the law remember the stones and as they come to Sinai as the new people。
they are being rescued from Israel they receive the laws.。
And now the biggest wonder is that God wants to build a tabernacle a home among them you。
know a tabernacle is simply a portable tent you know have you been to a camping trip before。
yeah you have to pitch a tent right and then pitch a tent to next each other and you heard。
what people said you know in the middle of night and you know kind of like camping right。
because in the wilderness as people move forward in the wilderness God lives in the tent among。
them to guide them in every step of the way.。
So in the wilderness you know among the people of Israel you see there's a tent right there。
and if you're new to the Bible you might think you know why does an all-powerful God cares。
so much about you know the tent and gives instructions for these curtain dimensions。
you know every piece every material every piece of furniture inside the tent you may。
wonder this.。
But every single piece inside this tabernacle is a picture of how God wants to relate to。
you relate to his people and uh it's a it's a grammar of relationship architectural grammar。
of relationship.。
Now if you go to Israel today you drive south all the way south almost to the Red Sea and。
you see a one-to-one tabernacle model in Timna Park and you know I want to show you。
the the floor plan of the tabernacle and the tent is made of different color of curtains。
you know there's a red and purple all kinds of curtains and there are different furniture。
items you know you look at it from top down right it's rectangular in shape and as you。
move inward from the courtyard from the right the courtyard and then the shape becomes more。
perfect square right the holy of holies is perfect square which means in in the ancient。
context means perfection and holiness.。
And then uh first of all we come to the uh courtyard which is you know the area on the。
right you see the bronze altar it stands at the uh entrance and the altar is simply is。
simply a a barbecue grill all right it stands there to remind the people that sin is real。
and it costs you something you have to bring offering you know burn offering to approach。
God but God provides you a way and the sacrifice is God's provision.。
And then after the altar is the uh bronze basin which is a water basin for you to cleanse。
yourself and then you come to the uh smaller uh rectangle uh which is uh the holy place。
and then you find different items in there uh first items you you will find is on your。
right is a table of showbread and there were twelve loaves of bread and one for each tribe。
of Israel that's why there were twelve and placed before God every single week to remind。
the people God is feeding you is sustaining you.。
And then uh you find the other item of the three is one on the left which is the lamp。
stand the golden lamp stand and it's it burns perpetually and uh to communicate to you that。
God is light and uh he is not hiding.。
And then the third item is the order of incense and you burn something there and the smoke。
will go up and represent prayer go going up and God is actually listening to the prayers。
of the people.。
And then at the heart of everything is the perfect square right the perfect square which。
is called the holy of holies and is behind the thick curtain and the most holy place。
the most important item is the box is the ark of covenant is a gold covered box and。
holding different items in there especially the stone tablets the two tablets of the covenant.。
And on top of the ark box is two golden cherubim uh angels with this with the wings spread。
uh toward each other and that's actually the mercy seat the throne of God.。
Now because God is holy and we are sinful so no one can approach the most holy place。
uh casually and the high priest that's important the high priest can enter the most holy place。
the God's very home once a year on Yom Kippur on the day of atonement to make sacrifice。
for the sins of the whole people and he entered the most holy place which is the mercy seat.。
And I spent so much time explaining the the the blueprint or the fore plan of the uh the。
tabernacle I feel like a real estate agent trying to show you the the fore plan of the。
tabernacle.。
And I want to tell you is is all of these details are architectural theology every piece。
in the of the items communicates to you that God forgives God provides and God listens。
to your prayer and God is present God is not a distant you know deity and he is a God who。
wants to make his home among his people.。
In chapter 29 uh it says God says I will dwell among the Israelite my people and be their。
God and they will know that I'm the Lord their God who brought them out of Egypt so I might。
dwell among them.。
So you have to understand Exodus coming out of Egypt is not just rescue it is relationship.。
So not only God desire to dwell among us the people God is determined to do so God is determined。
to do that.。
So let's return to the passage and you know after chapter 25 to 31 which is the detailed。
blueprint of the tent and something really bad happened in between 32 and 34.。
Now you have to kind of imagine you were there and Moses has been up on the mountain receiving。
the blueprint for 40 days and the people at the foot foot hill and they were getting kind。
of restless and impatient and they want something like you know the force gods that they used。
to worship so they have Aaron Moses brother melt the gold and cast a golden calf and they。
come alongside and surround the the calf and make it an idol for them and they worship。
the idol.。
So right in the middle of the story 32 to 34 um you see that you know people are being。
sinful and they turn and rebel against God and I don't want you to feel kind of okay。
we are better right we are better people I mean the people they wouldn't screw up right。
but you know in some way we are better I don't want you to think about that because that。
is a universal human problem for you and for me.。
We have the same problem because God is invisible and require our trust our faith and yet sometimes。
we are impatient and we want to fall before a visible God you know an immediate God and。
we want to manipulate because we want the idols.。
And you think about it you know we do that every single day we we worship the force God。
we we uh we worship the golden calf because we want to replace our trust in the invisible。
God with something visible money the self-sufficiency some of the version of of the gods that would。
uh fit our one you know uh so the golden calf story is actually not an ancient story it's。
a mirror of our human nature.。
And sometimes our gods are money sometimes our gods are sleep you know we just want to。
sleep more right want to be lazy right.。
We are all idol worshiper and that is the point of the story right in the middle right。
in the structural center and um uh up on the mountain God is still you know giving the。
grouping and down in the valley uh the people are already trying to replace God with idols.。
So right in the middle it tells a anti-climax story and the covenant with God is shattered。
is broken so Moses comes down and flown the uh the tablets on the ground and broke them.。
And then God was really angry because you know God want to wipe out the people but at。
this point at this crisis moment uh Moses goes up to the mountain and intercede for。
the people and says Lord if you destroy all your people and then your faithfulness is。
on the line don't do that.。
Right here in the middle of the entire story there comes a great theological statement。
and Moses says the Lord the Lord a God merciful and gracious slow to anger abounding in steadfast。
love and faithfulness keeping steadfast love for thousands not one not two thousands of。
generations forgiving iniquities.。
So now the crisis is resolved right the people are being saved and redeemed not because we。
are good not because we are so bad but God chooses to stay God chooses to forgive and。
God is good.。
So you see that God's determination to dwell among his people even though they are broken。
and they are rebellious but after redemption God's still determined to dwell among them。
because that is the character of God he's gracious he's merciful he's slow to anger。
and then part three the story continues from chapter thirty five to the end chapter forty。
is God's amazing invitation to invite sinners to build his home among them.。
And then now something I want you to notice is that thirty five to forty is actually the。
mirror of the first part of the story you see that first part and then there's a middle。
and then there's the end and then you see some of the details some of the verses from。
the first part and third part they are actually mirrored to one another.。
And then let me give you an example twenty five thirty one it says make a lamp stand。
is a command right it's the blueprint command and God is saying to people make a lamp stand。
of pure gold and hammer it out bays and shafts and all the shapes and be one piece with it。
that's a command right twenty five thirty one and then on the right is thirty seven。
seventeen it's the execution of the command and he the craftsman the craftsman and he。
also made the lamp stand of pure gold almost word to word you know same thing but on the。
left is command on the right is execution.。
So almost identical first part and the third part word for word and God said it and they。
did it and what God has designed the community now builds it and then the blueprint becomes。
the building the word becomes work.。
You wonder and it's very interesting that God does not send angels the holy people to。
build his home he chooses his very people who has just betrayed him and that is not。
just forgiveness that is restoration give them the honor and dignity to build his home。
among them.。
They you know they and then the people bring the offering the gold and the silver to build。
the home and they bring so much that Moses has to tell the people hey you got to stop。
because there's so much and there's more than enough you got to stop and make your。
offering.。
What a picture of grace that God wants his sinful people broken people to build his home。
among them.。
Now we at UV we are in a season of building as well you know God is calling us to expand。
right it's the next we have got to go next we got to make room for more people who have。
never met our God and for God to live among us among us is that the work will becomes。
our work the whole community has to work together and the qualification here the Bible tells。
us the qualification to build the church to build a community for God is not because your。
most talented it's not because you're most experienced it's simply because you're willing.。
And we you are invited to give generously you're invited to serve willingly you're you're invited。
to show up you're invited to welcome to create a church that will make people feel like this。
God is different and this God is will.。
And back to the story in the last chapter at the very end in the conclusion it says。
then the cloud the glory cloud covered the tent of meeting the tabernacle the glory of。
the Lord filled the tabernacle and Moses could not enter the tent because the cloud the glory。
is so much and settled on it and the glory of God filled the entire home.。
You see God moved in after the rebellion after people make idols for themselves yet he redeemed。
them and he came down and he stayed and he filled his home with his glory.。
You see so often we we have this you know our our own conception especially for new people to the church they they feel like you know I'm not ready to go to church you know because I'm not perfect.。
You see we suppose that the church is a place for a community of perfect people right.。
Sometimes not only the new people think so sometimes we think so we've been to church。
a lot right and we tend to think that because we are better we come to church but that is。
not the case right.。
With that kind of grace you need to embrace God as well.。
See the whole movement of Exodus is telling you God in his grace is drawing near to us。
even though we are broken we are dirty it's always not further away the Holy God drawing。
nearer and nearer to us.。
It is no wonder centuries later many years later the apostle John opens up his gospel。
and as he introduced us to us introduced Jesus to us he says in chapter 1 verse 14 it says。
the word who is Jesus okay the word is Jesus he became flesh and made his dwelling among。
us and we have seen his glory the glory of one and only son who came from the father。
above and full of grace and truth.。
See that word translated dwelling is the same word tent tabernacle and here the gospel of。
John is deliberately trying to echo the tabernacle trying to echo the Old Testament story Jesus。
now is the real tabernacle in person.。
See Jesus is the place when we come to Jesus when we come to Christ Jesus is the place。
where heaven and earth meet together in the old covenant God's presence fills a physical。
tent now in Jesus God pitched himself his home among us in Christ.。
See through Christ God does not just dwell near us he dwells among us in us.。
So I want to tell you this thing in conclusion you know the world most of the people in the。
world don't know Christ you know you have to think that in our world what we need is。
not a church of perfect people better people the world does not need that the world needs。
to see that we as church people we have experienced we have encountered this God of grace he has。
come down to us even though we are broken but he come down to us and love us and embrace。
us.。
And what a privilege that we are being called sinners fully redeemed we are being called。
to build a home for God so that God is present among us.。
So before we pray to end our service today I want you to pick up one item before you。
go okay before you go pick up this item it's a piece of cloth and the tabernacle was built。
as you remember was built with fine linen and fabric without the cloth there's no tabernacle.。
So I want you to take one piece of cloth and add it to your sand jar of the year and you。
have sent the promise of God the puzzle the peace to remind us we are broken yet God has。
chosen to use us and there's some stones in it there's a third item remember remember。
the new principle the law has given to us and now is the cloth is the fabric of God's。
dwelling it's a reminder that you and I are builder build this community so that God lives。
in us you are the material you are the material God is using to make his presence in our midst。
so in this week I want to invite you in this week every day of the week I want to invite。
you in this week every day of the week seven days before we come back to worship every。
day you pray a risky prayer okay risky prayer I tell you what the prayer is and what that。
risky prayer says is this God use me to build your church and pray to God somehow you can。
use me every day of the week God please use me okay I'm sure God will reveal and move。
you to be used by him to build a tabernacle build a home for him shall we pray together。
Father thank you you are not the God who stays at distance you came down and dwell among us。
in a tent and you came in flesh in Jesus for grace and truth and by your spirit we now。
you now dwell in us and fill this place as well fill our church with your glory just。
as you filled the tabernacle build your church through us our finances our skills our presence。
for anyone here who has never known you and let today be the day they discover they find。
that you were looking for them long before they ever looked for you thank you so much。
for your grace in Jesus' name we pray amen。
