[Music]。
All right. Thank you very much.。
Well, good morning from Chicago, everyone.。
For those who are listening from wherever you are,。
I hear some of you are in Hong Kong.。
I hear from some of you guys are in Canada, different places.。
And those who are in the audience, good morning and good evening.。
My name is Tommy Lee, and I get a chance.。
I run multiple organizations, but one of the things I am very proud of is。
I am the president and founder of Resource Global.。
And one of the things I get a chance to do at Resource Global is。
we work with young Christian marketplace leaders in different global cities.。
And so as a result of that, I get a chance to go to Jakarta, Indonesia,。
when pre-pandemic, in Kuala Lumpur, in Singapore, as well as Austin, Texas, Chicago.。
And I was recently just in Nairobi, Kenya.。
So I literally just came back from there last week,。
and I had a chance to really be able to see what God was doing in Nairobi, Kenya.。
And it is phenomenal how different global cities are continuously grown.。
I'd love to share a little bit more in the future in terms of what Nairobi is,。
but the one thing I will probably see, there is a lot of growth。
in countries like Africa as well as Asia.。
But the one thing that it is, is what does it mean that as the countries continue to grow,。
how do marketplace leaders, how does the local church continue。
to really be able to proclaim what God is doing in those cities。
and interact with those cities.。
So, man, it has been just a joy and journey.。
And with my role, I get a chance to travel a lot.。
And it's not always easy.。
A couple of weeks ago, it's my fourth straight week traveling, right?。
It's my fourth straight week traveling. I'm tired.。
A couple of weeks ago, I was in Grand Rapids.。
Tomorrow, I jump on a plane, I go to Los Angeles.。
Just got back from Nairobi, and it has not been always very easy。
when you're jumping on planes all the time.。
But in the midst of all these things, I get a chance to meet wonderful people.。
Let me just show you one person, all right?。
Here's this one person I want to talk about.。
And they are going to put that right there.。
His name is Ray Bakke.。
I'm not sure if you guys have ever heard of the name Ray Bakke.。
Ray is someone--it ties in with our sermon today--。
what I would call as God's anointed, God's professor, global professor.。
A couple of weeks ago, maybe about four or five weeks ago,。
I get an email from Ray's assistant saying that,。
"Tommy, Ray has made a turn for the worse.。
Ray has pancreatic cancer. Ray is dying."。
As a result of that, he asked if you had time to go see him。
in Bellingham, Washington for one final meeting.。
Well, here's the thing.。
If someone tells you that they would like to see you for the final time,。
you do everything you can to go out there.。
I have gotten to know Ray for many, many years.。
He is a global professor that has ministered and taught many students。
all over the years, traveled to Hong Kong.。
Some of you are sitting there watching from Hong Kong.。
You may have been familiar with Ray and his travels and his teachings.。
But the one thing Ray has always taught me as a professor is,。
"Tommy, you have to learn to what?。
Respect and honor the culture that you're in.。
You have to learn to 'exegete to community.'"。
What does he mean by that?。
Too often--and I say this as an American standing here--。
too often as an American, when I travel to your city in Hong Kong。
or in Canada, all of that stuff, as Americans, I feel like I have all the answers.。
As Americans, I feel like you have to learn from me.。
As Americans, I'm your primary funder. I'm the leader.。
You learn from me.。
Whereas some of you who are sitting in Hong Kong or Vancouver。
or wherever you are in the world are sitting there,。
"Wait a minute. That's not right.。
You fail to understand our culture.。
You fail to understand--you bring your American ideas。
and you expect all of us to learn."。
That was the one thing Ray has always taught me.。
He says, "Tommy, when you go to different global cities,。
you are a learner of that city.。
You are a student of that city.。
God has been at work in that city way before you ever got there,。
way before any Americans ever got there.。
He has a plan for that city.。
And so when you go to that city, listen and hear.。
Ask questions. Honor the people there. Honor the culture there.。
Always be respectful of the culture.。
Hear what God is doing and always be asking yourself,。
"How can God be working in your life?。
How is God working in the city and how can you be part of it?"。
That's what Ray taught me, and I will always remember that from Ray.。
Ray is what I call God's anointed,。
and it's a position that all of us are in today.。
And this is a topic we're going to talk about actually。
for the next three times I'm with you,。
and I'm going to be with you every single month,。
this September, October, November,。
and we're going to talk about a three-part series on the life of David.。
Today we're going to talk about a story that all of you are familiar with,。
the story of the battle of David and Goliath,。
which I would say if you're young or old,。
you're probably familiar with this story.。
It is a story, I would say, probably aside from the crucifixion。
to the birth of Jesus, it's a story that we're all familiar with.。
The story, the battle of David and Goliath,。
good versus evil, underdog versus the giant.。
But it's more than just a battle between little man versus giant.。
But it talks about how God's anointed, God uses his anointed。
to continue to call him out and use him,。
begin to prepare him for the biggest stage of being the king of Israel.。
And so we're going to talk about part one of that。
and lessons that emerge, principles that we're going to talk about。
that emerges of being God's anointed.。
We're going to talk about part one.。
We're going to talk about the next time I show up,。
we're going to talk about part two as we finish up the rest of the story.。
And then part three is one of my favorite ones is what happens。
in the aftermath of a giant's killing.。
Because you think that after the giant's killing, story ended, happy ending.。
But it's far more than that.。
And God is in the midst of preparing a king.。
God's anointed with David.。
It's a story of you as well, too, because God has a plan for you.。
God chooses and wants you.。
We all have the potential to be anointed by God to do something great.。
We all have the potential to be anointed by God to make a difference。
and impact this world because he is in the midst of writing your story.。
He is in the midst of writing a chapter in your story,。
a story that is so unique that my story is so different from your story,。
that all of our stories are very, very unique.。
And so as a result, within that journey, what is that story?。
How is God calling you?。
How is God making a difference in your life?。
And that's what we're going to look at today.。
As always, I will probably say is as you're getting to know me,。
you will find that I will need a lot of water in the midst of it.。
And so I always will tell people, please be patient with me during that period of time.。
I think I told you in the last time I had a sermon, I spoke to you guys.。
Cancer really affected my body.。
Three years ago, I was diagnosed with cancer.。
And in the midst of that cancer, right in my sinus,。
it pretty much destroyed all my tears, most of my hearing.。
That's why a lot of times if you're here, I speak very loudly。
because a lot of times I can't really hear.。
But more so, it really took away most of my saliva and most of my taste buds.。
And so as a result, it is a part of that journey that God has written.。
And so a lot of times I will ask you for a little grace as we continue on as well too.。
Hey, let's take our story over to 1 Samuel 9 as we begin.。
1 Samuel 9, and we're going to begin our story with that.。
And we're going to go over to 17 eventually, but I'm going to start with 1 Samuel 9.。
And the story begins in verses 1 to 2.。
"That there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abel, son of Zerah, son of Bekroth, son of Ephiah, a Benjamite."。
Very, very important. Remember who that is.。
He is from the tribe of Benjamin. He is a Benjamite.。
Always remember that. We're going to get back to this.。
"A man of wealth. And he had a son whose name was Saul, a handsome young man.。
There was not a man among the people of Israel more handsome than he.。
From his shoulders upward, he was taller than any of the people."。
So the story begins with the selection of Saul as the leader.。
He is a Benjamite. Very key. Comes from a very influential, very, very wealthy family.。
He comes from a family of means.。
He is the tallest. He is the most handsome. He is the most athletic and natural because of his outward appearance.。
Coming from a very, very lucrative family, very well-to-do family, he is chosen king of Israel.。
And the story goes, and we don't have time to go through all this, you know what happens with Saul.。
Through a series of mistakes, that ego starts getting in the way.。
The character flaws begin to show within Saul.。
And God deems him as no longer the right fit as a leader.。
As a result, he is looking for a replacement.。
There is a prophet Samuel. He says, "Samuel, I have disqualified Saul.。
Even though he is elected by the people, even though all of his outward appearance, it checks the boxes.。
I have disqualified him as king of Israel.。
And so I need you to go find the next king.。
And I want you to go to Bethlehem to go do it."。
And so Samuel goes over to Bethlehem, and he is now called to the son of Jesse, the Bethlemite.。
And there Jesse comes in.。
And he arrives and he says to Jesse, "Bring all your sons in. I want to talk with them. I want to see them."。
And the story goes, he brings in three of his sons.。
And the first one to show up is Eliab.。
Well, Eliab is the oldest of all of the sons.。
Eliab is the strongest, the tallest of all the sons.。
And here's what 1 Samuel 16 tells us.。
"But the Lord said to Samuel, 'Do not look on his outer appearance, on the height of his stature,。
because I have rejected him.。
For the Lord sees not what a man sees.。
Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart.'"。
So he goes through all the sons, not him, not him, not him.。
And he says to Jesse, "Jesse, do you have any more sons?"。
Jesse remembers, "Oh, there's young David."。
We all know the story. There's young David.。
He's out in the sheep. He's tending the sheep.。
"Hey, call David in."。
David walks in.。
"There Samuel anoints him with who watching is, his brother, including Eliab."。
That's also very important. Note that as well, too.。
We don't know exactly how he anoints him, but he anoints him.。
Maybe he whispers to David, "You're going to be the next king."。
And there the story ends.。
First thing, first principle that emerges out of God's anointing.。
God always looks at the condition of the heart.。
God does not look at outer appearances.。
God does not care how wealthy you are.。
God does not care how good-looking you are.。
God does not care how rich you are.。
God does not care how successful you are.。
God does not care how well you are, speaking-wise, your talents, whatever it is.。
God does not look at the physical appearance.。
But he always looks at the condition of your heart.。
God is looking to use men and women wherever you are, whatever part of the world that you are.。
God is looking for men and women with hearts of humility.。
God is willing to look at individuals with hearts of generosity, others first, integrity.。
Men and women who are willing to stand up, who are willing to give up their lives to serve the Lord.。
God is looking always, always with the heart, and the condition of the heart versus the outer appearance.。
Why? Why not outer appearance?。
Because, simply, he's created you.。
Number one, he's created you.。
He's given you all your strengths.。
He's given you and placed you and given you the riches of your life.。
He's given you the talents that you have.。
He's given you the position you are, how wealthy you are, whatever it is.。
God has given you all that, so that's number one.。
Number two, if you base your skills, and God looks at your skills, there's something you can brag about.。
There's something you can say, "Look at what I can do."。
And that's not it.。
Ephesians tells us, "For it is by grace you have been saved, not by yourselves."。
Why? So you can't boast.。
God looks at the heart of the individual.。
And never about your skills, never about your strengths, never about the things that you have, all of these different things.。
Let me give you a couple of stories and illustrations of what I mean by this.。
There's a pastor that I get a chance, so if you don't know me, I mean, instead of running five different organizations, I get a chance to run five different organizations, right?。
So instead of one, I run five different organizations.。
But one of the jobs I get a chance to do is I get to work with different ministry leaders on conferences that are held throughout the world.。
And in the midst of all that, I get a chance to interact with pastors, speakers that have books, radio, that have great podcasts, that have a pretty well-known, and that's either good and sometimes bad.。
I've met different people, I say this, who have written books that I said, "Wow, I can't believe I met this person.。
I want to meet with them and realize, oh, wow, they're not exactly what I thought they was."。
So one situation comes in.。
I had this conference I was overseeing.。
And this pastor comes in, and he's very well-known.。
He has a large social media following.。
He has book deals. He's always on the speaking circuit.。
He had to do, for this particular conference, he had to do one workshop, and he had to do one 10-minute devotion.。
That's all he had to do.。
And so as a result of that, he then charges $5,000 in expenses for his time.。
He traveled first class.。
He won a large honorarium.。
He didn't like the hotel that we put him in because he thought it was not nice.。
He checked himself to a $500 hotel.。
He started eating expensive meals, and suddenly his assistant sends me his receipt.。
And for one day and a half, I'm looking at the expenses, $5,000.。
And so naturally, I don't have the budget for this because I wasn't authorized.。
So I go back to his assistant and says, "I can't do this.。
We're going to have to reject it."。
Again, very talented.。
Huge book writer. Huge following. Everything like that.。
Calls me up one day, and it's a Sunday now.。
I'm in Houston. I'm at an event.。
Calls me up and says, "Oh, why is this guy calling me? Coming from church?"。
He says, "Tommy, let me just say this to you.。
You have disrespected me.。
Highly disrespected me because you're questioning my integrity and questioning my finances."。
I said, "Yeah, you're right. I'm questioning your finances."。
He says, "Here's why you're doing this.。
Because your life stinks.。
You probably live a miserable life.。
Your kids probably hate you.。
Your wife probably hates you.。
You probably have no friends.。
And that's why you're disrespecting me.。
So I want you to do something like this.。
I want you not only to pay my reimbursement,。
but I need you to go on social media and apologize for disrespecting me,。
or I will make your miserable life more miserable than it is right now."。
God honors the heart.。
It doesn't matter what skills you have.。
It doesn't matter what you do or not able to do.。
God honors the heart.。
Second story that I have.。
I know an elder of a church.。
Very strong, very, very involved.。
Involved in finance, all of that stuff.。
Very dedicated to all of this stuff.。
But inwardly, he and his wife have problems all the time.。
Why?。
He can't control his anger.。
Because behind closed doors--hey, he knows what to do on a Sunday, right?。
He knows what to do at churches on a Sunday.。
He knows what to say.。
He's there on Sundays.。
He's there helping out with finances.。
He's on the elder board.。
But his wife says to me, "Behind closed doors."。
He yells and screams to the point sometimes the neighbors are ready to call the police.。
He cannot control his anger.。
He belittles.。
He's never happy.。
God sees this.。
We think no one has seen all these things.。
But God sees it.。
Because God is always after men and women whose heart belong to him,。
whose heart are full of integrity,。
whose heart is devoted to him.。
God always looks at the heart.。
Never, never on the outer appearances.。
One last thing I just said to you.。
I just came back from Nairobi.。
When you go to Nairobi, you see roads galore.。
You see overpasses.。
You see new buildings being built, everything.。
It's a brand-new city.。
But then when you talk with the people there, the city is poor。
because it's ruined by corruption.。
Because you have people who are what they say are Sunday Christians。
who all go to church.。
Eighty-five percent of the population in Nairobi says they're Christians.。
They all go to church on Sundays.。
The president, the politicians all go to church on Sundays.。
Monday through Friday, they do whatever they want.。
And so as much as the money, which by the way, a lot of the money。
and all the changes in Nairobi is funded by who?。
The Chinese.。
And as a result of the Chinese, they poured in all of this money.。
And the politicians in Nairobi who are supposedly Christians。
are benefiting from all this, but that money is not going to all the city.。
And so you have people who are poor.。
You have people in slums.。
You have people who are struggling.。
But only a few people are getting wealthy.。
God's anointed for all of us.。
God chooses to anoint you.。
You have the potential, wherever you are, to sit in there,。
to be anointed by God to do something great.。
You really do.。
What is the state of your heart?。
Where is your heart?。
Is God working your heart?。
I don't care how talented you are.。
I don't care how wealthy you are.。
I don't care how educated you are.。
I don't care how well you speak.。
God cares about that heart.。
Let's go on.。
The story goes.。
And the story goes to verse 7, chapter 17.。
And it goes to verse 1.。
And we're reading from the ESV.。
And now the Philistines gathered their armies for battle.。
Go into 17.。
And they were gathered, or Soca.。
Now the story goes that he's anointed David.。
And now there's a battle which belongs to Judah.。
And a camp between Soca and Ezekiah in Ephesus, the Mim.。
And Saul and the men of Israel.。
Now Saul was the king now of Israel.。
We're gathered.。
And they camped in the valley of Elah and drew up a line of battle。
against the Philistines.。
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on one side.。
And Israel stood on the mountain on the other side with a valley between them.。
And there came out from the camp of the Philistines a champion named Goliath the Gath,。
whose height was six cubits, or over nine feet tall in his span.。
Let me give you a little background on this in order to understand fully this story.。
Take a look at this, right?。
Let me give you a background on this.。
Here's-- and if you guys get a chance, over there, there is a PowerPoint over there.。
Well, the PowerPoints over here that I have is-- thank you very much.。
Look at the two descriptions.。
I gave-- the left-hand column is the Philistines.。
The Philistines were coastal people.。
They were sophisticated cultural people.。
That was the Philistines.。
The Philistines had learned how to use iron to make weapons and tools.。
They were a master of iron.。
They had a monopoly of iron.。
But contrast that to the Israelites.。
The Israelites were primitive people.。
They were composed of shepherds and farmers.。
They had no experience in working with iron at that time.。
The Israelites were so, in some sense, appeared so inferior to the Philistines。
that they lived in the mountains because the fertile valleys were dominated by the more powerful Philistines.。
And, at the same time, here's something important to remember.。
Remember what the Philistines are key at.。
They were great blacksmiths.。
They were great at iron.。
Let me give you a point.。
1 Samuel 13, 19, all right?。
Here's the way it reads.。
Not a blacksmith could be found in the entire whole land of Israel。
because the Philistines had said, "Otherwise, the Hebrews will make swords or spears."。
So all Israel went down to the Philistines to have their plow shares,。
maddox, axes, and sickles sharpened.。
The price were two-thirds of a shekel for sharpening plow horses and maddox。
and a third of a shekel for sharpening forks and axes and repointing goats.。
So on the day of battle, not a soldier with Saul and Jonathan had a spear or sword in their hands.。
Only Saul and his son Jonathan had them.。
What is the picture that's being painted?。
Understand the context is very key.。
Philistines came from Gath, had all of the supply of swords and iron.。
They were masters at that.。
Israelites were the primitive people who lived in the non-fertile valleys in the mountains.。
They were farmers. They were shepherds.。
The only one who had weapons was Saul, and Jonathan had the swords.。
Because why? The Philistines had a monopoly on everything.。
So now you're asking, as we read into it,。
so why in the world are the Philistines invading the Israelites?。
Are they just doing it for fun, or what's wrong with it?。
Let me show you a series of three pictures, alright?。
Here's a series of three pictures right here.。
If you guys could see all these things, here's the first picture.。
You see the Israelite camp, and you see the Valley of Elah.。
If you go to Israel right now, the Valley of Elah is still there right now.。
The Israelite camp is where the mountains are, and you see the Philistine camp.。
Let me actually give you a closer picture as well, too.。
You see right there, Gath is to the west of the Philistines, right?。
You see the Israelite camp, again the Valley of Elah, and also the Philistine camp.。
Let me actually then now go to a third map, and now you'll understand why this battle was taking place.。
Take a look at this.。
Right in the middle, you see where Ezekiel and Soca was?。
That's where your Philistines and the Valley of Elah and all of that are.。
You see Gath right there.。
What do you see?。
The Israelite is right there in the mountain, and where does it lead?。
It becomes a gateway to what?。
Look up north.。
You see Bethlehem, you see Jerusalem, you see all of Bethel, all of these different places, Shiloh.。
It is the gateway to the Jordanian Valley.。
It is a key strategic point.。
The Assyrian Empire at that point in time, many of the empires went through this gateway to make their trades.。
What does the Philistines know?。
That as much as they have the fertile valley, if they can control that gateway, it opens up the trade routes for them to control the gate routes.。
It's like the tax collector Matthew, right?。
So they need to control that gateway.。
And who's standing in the way?。
The Israelites.。
So as a result, let's bring in everyone and get rid of the Israelites.。
And you know what?。
We're such a powerful army.。
We're not even going to waste our time.。
Let's not waste our soldiers.。
Let's not have anyone get hurt.。
Let's send in a big guy, Goliath.。
Let's have him battle their biggest one because it probably doesn't stand a chance.。
And whoever wins, if we win, we'll leave.。
Which we probably are guaranteed that we won't win.。
If we lose, we leave.。
If we win, you're out.。
And so Goliath shows up, and boy does he show up.。
For 40 days, he comes in and out with the same challenge.。
Bring your best soldier.。
Bring your best hero and let him battle me and let's see who wins that out.。
All for this particular valley.。
And now we go to 14 to 18.。
David, in verse 14, was the youngest.。
The three eldest followed Saul, but David went back and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.。
And for 40 days, the Philistines came forward and took his stand morning and evening for 40 days in verse 14 and now 16.。
And Jesse said to David his son, "Take for your brothers an epath of his parched grain in these ten loaves。
and carry them quickly to the camp to your brothers.。
Also take these ten cheeses to the commander of their thousands.。
See if your brothers are well and bring what?。
Some token from them."。
Which, you're going to actually, that plays an important role for them.。
"Bring some token for them."。
If point number one is that God chooses to look at the heart of the individual,。
when God anoints an individual, he looks at the heart of the individual and never the outer appearance,。
then number two, you never know when God comes calling.。
You never know when God comes calling.。
You never know when God is ready to call you.。
You never know when that chapter in your book turns.。
You never know what adventure he has.。
You never know what plans he has for your life.。
And so we approach our life with open hands.。
We approach our life with great anticipation.。
We approach our life sitting there each and every single day saying,。
"Lord, what is it that you want me to do?。
How can I continue to serve you each and every single day?"。
Because you never know when God comes calling.。
You never know when he has a plan for you.。
So you live with an anticipation because why?。
And we always talk about this because you are a steward of what God has given you。
because your life is not yours, but you are a steward of what God has given you.。
And when we are stewards, we are always anticipating to serve him in every aspect of our life.。
It is a story of Nicodemus when he is called by God and he interacts with Jesus.。
He never knew that through that interaction in John chapter 3,。
when God says, "For God so loved the world," it will open his life.。
Or it becomes the whole idea of Nehemiah.。
We read about Nehemiah at 60-something years old as the cupbearer of the king.。
Nehemiah is called to rebuild the walls.。
He is 60-something years old.。
God calls him to rebuild the walls.。
He has had a lucrative job as cupbearer of the king.。
Now he is called to rebuild the walls.。
But what is the key is he hears one day that Jesus is coming to Jericho.。
He wants to see Jesus in the midst of it.。
Jesus invites himself to his house.。
And Jesus says, "I want you to do something. I want you to stay as a tax collector.。
But I want you to make a difference in your city."。
In contrast to Matthew where he says, "Matthew, pick up your everything as a tax collector.。
Follow after me.。
Peter, James, and John, move away from being fishermen.。
Follow after me."。
You never know when God comes calling.。
You never know when he is calling you to do something big.。
So you live your life with anticipation.。
You live your life with open hands.。
You live your life constantly praying, "Lord, what do you call me to do?"。
But more so, very important too,。
you are faithful to where he has placed you at.。
That wherever he placed you at, whether it's a stay-at-home mom,。
whether it's in a job that you cannot stand,。
whether it's a dead-end job,。
whether it's in whatever situation that you're in,。
you're faithful to where he has placed you at.。
But you're always anticipating.。
You're always looking.。
You're always praying.。
You're always looking, asking that God may make sense and close and open doors for your life.。
Here's the one thing for those who are sitting there,。
especially those who are in their mid-20s to mid-30s,。
because I get a chance to talk with you guys quite a lot.。
If you're sitting there in your mid-20s and 30s,。
a lot of times you're always wondering what God is wanting you to do.。
You're always anticipating.。
You're always saying, "God, what do you want me to do?。
I want to know what God wants me to do."。
But you're not content.。
Be content with where you are.。
Learn why God is--and we'll talk a little bit about that later.。
Be faithful to where God has placed you,。
but always be looking.。
If number one is God works in those who are anointed。
by finding those individuals。
and looking at identifying where the heart is,。
then number two, you never know when God is going to work.。
You never know when God's calling, so you're anticipating.。
Number three--and we're going to work at the final thing,。
and then we're going to move on.。
Story goes, in '28, Iliab--we remember Iliab, right?。
Iliab was the oldest son of Jesse.。
He was the oldest brother of David.。
Now, Iliab, his eldest brother, heard when he spoke to the men,。
and Iliab's anger was kindled against David,。
and he says, "Why have you come down?。
And with whom have you left those sheep in the wilderness?。
I know your presumption and the evils of your heart,。
for you have come down to see the battle."。
And David said, "What have I done now?。
Was it not but a word?"。
Point number three--the anointed leader will be criticized by others.。
The anointed leader will not be free of criticism.。
The anointed leader needs to learn to have thick skin。
and learn that he or she can never make people happy, everyone happy,。
and you are sometimes prone to criticism,。
and you are not free of criticism.。
You're going to have to learn that.。
Too often, a lot of times, we like to be liked, right?。
Especially for those who are Asian sitting here, we like to be liked.。
We don't like conflict.。
I don't like, for me personally, when people criticize me.。
My defenses get up.。
I sit there questioning all of these different things.。
I like peace.。
I don't like to deal with conflict.。
We don't like when people don't like us.。
But sometimes, as God's anointed,。
you're going to have to make decisions that will never make people happy.。
You may make decisions that people would disagree with,。
that are critical with.。
People may not like you because they're jealous of you.。
People may not like you because they just don't like you.。
God's anointed will not be free of criticism,。
and you're going to have to learn to have thick skin.。
You're going to have to learn not to take it personally.。
But as God's anointed, you are making decisions。
that glorify and honor the Lord in all that you do,。
and that's a very fact.。
You're going to have to deal with criticism.。
Just like, for instance, Iliab over here doesn't like David.。
Why? We don't know.。
Does he have an intent against David?。
Does he not like the fact that David was anointed by Samuel and he wasn't?。
We don't know. I would guess probably so.。
And so he's critical.。
Look at what he says to him.。
This little flock that you have,。
these few sheep in the wilderness,。
he's very critical of him.。
You're not going to make people happy.。
And so as a result, how do we learn to have thick skin?。
How do we learn not to make things personal。
but to continue to go forth with what God has called us to do?。
If number one is the fact that God's anointed,。
God looks at the heart of the individual。
and never the outer appearance,。
then number two is that you never know when God comes calling.。
And you live with open arms, you live with open hands,。
you live with anticipation, asking that God is working.。
But number three, you've got to learn to be thick-skinned.。
You've got to learn not to be taking things personally.。
You've got to learn that sometimes people will be critical.。
Out of jealousy, out of fact they disagree with your decisions,。
whatever it is, but you're going to have to learn through all that stuff.。
God's anointed means that you are a steward of what God has given you.。
And for David, he had to learn these lessons before he became king.。
And so as a result of that,。
now next time I come back we're going to talk about part three.。
There's a second half of the battle against Goliath.。
And then we're going to talk about the aftermath of the days.。
But for you, look, here's the one thing I would say to you for those who are listening.。
Wherever you are in the world as you sit there,。
always know that God has a plan for you.。
Always know that he chooses to want to anoint you to do something bigger。
than you can't even imagine for the gospel.。
Now you're going to have to figure out as we wrap up what that calling is.。
But that means you've got to be asking and living in anticipation。
of what that practically means in your life.。
But you're going to have to do business with your heart.。
Because no matter what your skills are outwardly,。
it's the heart that really matters.。
So as we sit here, do we want to be used by God? Yeah, we do.。
Do we want to be doing great for God in everything that we do? Yeah.。
I think all of us will say yes.。
But what does it say to your heart?。
Are you anticipating for God to work in your life?。
Are you learning to not take things personally?。
Because God's anointing will not be free of criticism.。
How well are you doing in those three areas?。
Let's come back next month and talk about the rest.。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you for how you work with us each and every single day.。
Thank you for the words that you give us as we look at the life of David。
and how you anoint God, how you anointed David。
and you bring him on the journey.。
And we pray that as we face our own calling,。
the journey that you have given to us,。
that we learn from the lessons of David.。
May you use us in ways that we can't even desire。
to make a difference for you and for the gospel and the glory of God.。
Thank you for the story of David.。
We lift these things up to you and give off our heart.。
We pray for anticipation, and we pray for thick skin。
to continue to honor you.。
