- Well, thanks, Kelly, and make sure you join our family gathering, the GAA, the General。
Assembly.。
We have so many wonderful updates and so many news for you, and not only for staff, for。
myself, and for our ministry as well, and for our possible expansion of our church,。
and what's the next step for us, right?。
The church has to go forward all the time, and so has your spiritual life, so has your。
Christian life.。
You need to think about what's next for you guys, and that's why we want to focus on this。
series.。
And by the way, some update is that my plan in the next few months is to take some of。
you out for lunch or dinner.。
How does that sound?。
Pretty good, right?。
I'll pay for it.。
I'll pay for it.。
Yeah, and I want to spend more time to have fellowship together.。
I mean, I don't want us to feel like we are separated and isolated, so don't be surprised。
if I ask you out for dinner or for lunch, okay?。
There's nothing wrong with you, okay?。
So don't have the misconception that, okay, a pastor is going to have a meal with you。
and there must be something wrong with me, right?。
No, it doesn't work that way.。
Maybe there's something wrong with me, not you, okay?。
So that's part of my initiative to do some pastoral care among us.。
And thanks, Kelly, for reminding us.。
We still will have the afternoon Bible study, and today we're not going to have it, but。
every single second and fourth Sunday of the month, and we still want to continue with。
that until there are some other changes.。
But I always value the time to do Bible study with sisters and brothers.。
Remember last time, I was in the English group, and there were many, many good questions asked,。
even though we moved so slow in terms of covering the passages and the verses, but that's okay.。
We need to study together, and whenever I gather with the people of God to study the。
Word of God, I always learn something new, you know?。
I always learn something new.。
I always learn something that is not from the books, that is not from my preparation,。
but from our conversation, we can get to know God and His Word better, okay?。
So this series will continue with what Christ thinks of us, thinks of our church.。
What does Jesus Christ, the head of the church, think of you and me?。
So we study the seven letters to the seven churches, and we start with the first one,。
Ephesus, and then we move on to the second letter to Smyrna, and then the third one to。
Pergamon, and then via Tyre, and now we come to the fifth letter, which is a short letter。
to the church in Sardis.。
And because this is a short letter, and why don't we read together, read the entire letter。
first and see what is going on here, what does Jesus have to say to His church back。
then and to our church today, all right?。
So chapter two, or chapter three, sorry.。
To the angel of the church in Sardis write, "These are the words of Him who holds the。
seven spirits of God and the seven stars.。
I know your deeds.。
You have a reputation of being alive, but you are dead.。
Wake up, strengthen what remains, and it's about to die, for I have not found your deeds。
complete in the sight of my God.。
Remember therefore what you have received and heard.。
Obey it and repent, for if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will。
not know at what time I will come to you."。
Verse four, "Yet you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their clothes.。
They will walk with me dressed in white, for they are worthy.。
He who overcomes will, like them, be dressed in white.。
I will never blow out his name from the book of life, but will acknowledge his name before。
my Father and His angels.。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches."。
Remember, it's churches.。
It's not just for the church back then in Sardis, but for all of us, for every single。
one of us, if we call ourselves as Christians.。
Alright?。
Now, one of the themes of this letter, only six verses long, I don't know if you pick。
it up, the key word, always repeat, you know, in the six verses.。
It's name.。
Reputation.。
Has to do with the name.。
Now, as you know, name in the biblical culture is more than just a label, right?。
It's more than just a label to call you, right?。
Or name on your name tag, right?。
Name in the biblical culture has always to do with reputation.。
What are you famous for?。
What are you known for?。
What do other people see you and what is your reputation in the community or in the world?。
That is what the name is all about.。
And in this short letter, the name repeats again and again.。
And there are two main points I want to cover today.。
Is that Christ, number one, cares not your earthly name, your earthly reputation.。
Jesus doesn't really care.。
Cares not so much about your earthly reputation, all right?。
As we talk about these letters, we understand we have to understand the letters or read。
the letters in terms of their own context, right?。
Sardis, the churches in Sardis or the small community house churches in Sardis, Christ。
is going to remind them in their own context.。
And we know Sardis, of course now it's a modern city, but back then it was a very famous。
city.。
And it was one of the richest and wealthiest capital city of the ancient kingdom called。
Lydian kingdom.。
And it's in today's western Turkey.。
As you can tell from this verses, Christ is writing a letter to Sardis.。
And he introduces himself pretty much similar to how he introduced himself in the first。
letter to Ephesus.。
He's holding seven stars and he's holding seven spirits.。
And he has everything under his control.。
And the letter format goes, he knows something about the church.。
He said, I know your deeds and you have the name of being alive.。
Your reputation of being alive.。
Now if you're living in Sardis back then in the first century, you know that you are。
living in the one of the most famous cities in the world.。
You know, Sardis was known for gold and silver because they have gold mine and silver mine.。
As I prepared, I remember when I was younger, I used to play a lot of video games.。
I don't know if you play the game called age of empire.。
Ring any bell?。
No?。
Nobody like video games?。
What's your childhood like?。
No, age of empire is a strategy game and you start with some of the people of your own。
and then you go out to different places to explore and you have to find resources of。
the land.。
And then build up your kingdom and build up your army and then you're going to beat up。
somebody, right?。
Beat up some of the neighbors and then you're going to conquer them.。
That is age of empire.。
What you need in that kind of strategy game, okay, is to find all the resources, natural。
resources like gold mine and silver mine.。
And you have to gather the resources and you know, gathering back to your collection center。
and then you're going to build up your people, build up your buildings and build up your。
kingdom and then you could, you will be stronger.。
Now, Sardis was one of the cities in the ancient world that is close to a big gold mine.。
That's why Sardis was one of the wealthiest kingdom, wealthiest city state in the ancient。
world.。
They have the reputation and they are famous.。
But Jesus writing to them, yes you guys are rich in terms of your earthly resources.。
You have the reputation, famous for being a city of gold.。
But Jesus said, no, you are dead.。
That's pretty interesting, right?。
Because in Greek, in the original language, there were only two words.。
You guys are dead.。
You are dead.。
They are most famous for their gold mine.。
As you can see, the archeologist is thinking up so much.。
There's a river nearby that you can just collect the soil from the riverbed and then you can。
sift it and then you will see some of the clumps of gold pebbles.。
And then you're going to put it in the crucible and then you're going to refine it, right?。
And then you're going to get some gold out of it.。
As you can see in this center picture, right in the center, they have some samples in test。
tube.。
Some of the soil from the river, you can see it's kind of shiny, right?。
So Sardis is being known for this.。
Because the nearby river is a gold bearing sand.。
And all these pieces of jewelry of gold and silver are what they are famous for.。
I remember I first moved to the United States in 1990, right?。
1990.。
Oh boy, it's 30 years ago, right?。
30 some years ago.。
I live in Sacramento.。
Sacramento.。
It's in Northern California, Central Valley.。
It's pretty close to San Francisco, the Bay Area, right?。
So as you know, in the mid, 100 years ago, some 100 years ago, San Francisco and Sacramento,。
Auburn, all those towns were blooming cities, right?。
Because there were so many people coming to the Bay Area, coming to San Francisco and。
Sacramento area for the gold rush, right?。
Yeah, 49ers, right?。
It's the gold rush, right?。
That's why San Francisco is still called (speaks in foreign language)。
Because they have gold, right?。
And there were so many Chinese immigrants, actually, coming to the area and they want。
to get some gold, right?。
To be rich and/or to work for gold mine and industries.。
But today, if you go to those small towns of, you know, it used to be the gold rush。
towns, they are almost like ghost towns, right?。
Because all the gold is gone, right?。
All the gold and silver are gone, right?。
And they were famous for their resources, but not anymore.。
It is the same way in Sardis.。
Yes, you have reputation, Jesus said, of being alive, but now you are dead, right?。
So Jesus is not talking about financial resources or the physical resources that they have.。
He's talking about the people in Sardis, especially Christian people in Sardis.。
Yes, you were known for being wealthiest, but in my eyes, you are dead.。
Jesus always focuses on your spiritual status, not your paycheck, not your bank account.。
Yes, those are important if you are a good and faithful servant, managing God's resources.。
God demands us to be good stewards of your financial resources.。
That's why as Christian people, as followers of Christ, we need to have the habit of giving,。
right?。
Living in generosity.。
Generosity, right?。
When I say generosity, often we think, okay, those are for the billionaires, right?。
They can practice generosity.。
We cannot be generous because, geez, we just don't have much money in our pocket.。
Wait, seriously?。
No.。
Jesus was the most generous person in the world, right?。
Yet he was not rich in the worldly eyes, all right?。
So Jesus' followers have to practice that as well, to give and to be generous, all right?。
To give and to be generous.。
To the church in Sardis, Jesus says, "You guys are dead."。
All right?。
You guys are dead.。
And then he issued a series of five commands.。
It's like a shotgun, you know?。
Boom boom boom, rapid fire.。
Number one, wake up.。
Wake up.。
Strengthen what remains, the little bit remains in you.。
You have to strengthen it.。
It's about to die.。
That means your spiritual life is about to die.。
You're going to lose your salvation.。
You're going to lose your place in God, all right?。
So wake up and strengthen what remains, what still remains in you, and it's about to die.。
Because Jesus said, "I have not found any of your deeds complete in my sight."。
Number three, remember.。
See, this is similar to the first letter to Ephesus.。
You got to remember.。
Remember what you have received.。
The gospel, the grace of God, the blessing of God.。
And what you have heard.。
You got to remember all those things to rewind them, right?。
Go back to how many years ago or how many months ago you received Jesus Christ and he。
has led your life to this point.。
And we source you and give you all this blessing and provision.。
You got to remember those things, right?。
Remember the early days you were not willing to go to church.。
Maybe somebody, you know, invite you or push you around, you know, and you know, insist。
that you come to church.。
And you heard the gospel the very first time, right?。
The very first time you impact and you are touched by the love of God.。
You see the cross no longer different, right?。
Remember those days.。
Remember what you have received, the love of God, the grace of God.。
And then obey it, number four.。
Obey it.。
Be obedient.。
And then repent.。
Remember Jesus said if you do not repent, if you do not wake up, I will come to you。
as a thief.。
He is talking about second coming.。
In the fifth pages of the gospel, Jesus says I will come anytime to you.。
You know, I think this is a very, very simple truth, right?。
Either Jesus comes anytime or you go to see Jesus anytime, right?。
We will see Jesus and it will be a sudden moment.。
It's not going to, you're not going to plan like when you're going to see Jesus exactly.。
You can't.。
That's a picture of second coming.。
Five commands as I said is a series of rapid fire.。
It's to trying to shake you up, it's to wake you up.。
Don't we all need to be waken up?。
You know, sometimes Christians, I think we are pretending to sleep.。
Pretending you know, nothing's going on, you know.。
Follow the motion.。
You know, I can ignore God one week after another week, one day after another day.。
You know, this is really sad because you know, you heard of it.。
You cannot wake someone pretending to sleep.。
You know, it is pretend that we don't need, we don't have, we don't have the voice of。
God.。
You know, and actually the voice of the Holy Spirit keeps on reminding us every single。
day, every night.。
Holy Spirit is knocking on our door.。
Are you pretending to sleep?。
Are you pretending that Jesus is not speaking to you?。
Perhaps you have been faithful Christian for a long time.。
But that was history, right?。
Now I want to tell you, I remind myself all the time, right?。
I have many, you know, if you check my resume, I have some experiences, right?。
I have some histories of serving God, you know, being faithful, right?。
Yeah, I think I did something according to the will of God.。
However, I always remind myself, so what, right?。
Those are histories.。
As glorious as they sound, those are in the past.。
It's bygone.。
What matters most is right now, whether you are dead or not, whether you are alive or。
dead, right?。
Perhaps you had a good reputation before in the church or in your career or in your。
workplace.。
You know, you were a good witness or you did something for Jesus.。
But what matters most is not in the past.。
It's whether you are having a good life, a spiritual life.。
Whether you in the eyes of God are alive or you are dead, right?。
Especially some of the churches, ancient churches or old churches, if you walk around the city。
or you go to different places in Europe or in many different towns and cities, you see。
huge ancient, beautiful, you know, Gothic buildings, right?。
Church buildings.。
And those were the glorious days for those churches.。
But you walk into those churches, there was no vitality there.。
There's no spirit there.。
And the people of those old churches, they are simply holding on to the property, the。
deeds.。
But Jesus said, "You are indeed there."。
Last week, some of the brothers and sisters, we have this little expansion committee and。
we're talking about the long-term future for our church, right?。
So we've been renting this place for the last eight years.。
I still remember day one I was here, we got almost nothing here, right?。
And then in the core team, in the last couple of core teams, we were talking about, "Okay,。
maybe we should look forward to a number of years from now.。
What can we do?。
How can we expand and develop our ministry and build up our church, right?"。
And I hope this is not just my question.。
It's not just a question for the core team leaders, but it's the question for all of。
us.。
It's the concern for all of us.。
How can we expand?。
So last week, out of curiosity, someone texted me and, "Hey, would you like to see one of。
those old church properties on sale?。
Are you going to check it out?"。
And I said, "Yeah, let's go."。
Because it's close by my home and why not?。
I just being curious what's out there in the market, right?。
So I went and with other brothers and sisters, Jinfang was there.。
And we went in there and there was no more people in there.。
No more people in there.。
The roof is leaking water and all those things.。
And very, very old churches, but look outside.。
Look from the outside.。
It was intact and pretty nice for the old days.。
For the old days.。
We have a steeple and pretty beautiful facade.。
And how does Jesus see the church?。
How does God see the church?。
Right?。
It's not a church building.。
No, by the way, I want to remind you, whenever the New Testament uses the word church, it's。
not talking about buildings.。
It's not talking about physical building.。
Church is a community.。
It's a people.。
It's living people.。
That is church, right?。
Community of Christians who are faithfully following Christ.。
How does God sees the church?。
As I said, Christ doesn't really care about your earthly, our earthly reputation.。
What does God cares about?。
Christ cares about your heart.。
Your spiritual status.。
Your relationship with God himself.。
So that's point number one.。
Christ, number one is Christ cares not your earthly name.。
So often we care so much about our earthly reputation.。
We want to collect gold.。
We want to collect all the resources.。
We don't go to church because we have to go to work.。
We have to earn some more money.。
All the inflation.。
You know how much, you know how expensive the eggs are?。
It's so expensive.。
My wife told me, "You don't eat eggs anymore in the morning."。
Because I usually eat two eggs.。
I fry two eggs in the morning.。
Back then it was 150, 160 a dozen.。
I ate two eggs every morning.。
That's all I eat.。
I need some protein.。
But last week she told me, "You don't eat any eggs.。
Leave it to your daughter."。
I don't eat any eggs anymore.。
You know, there's financial challenges.。
There's stress in our lives.。
But sometimes we just care so much about our reputation.。
You know, we want to collect all these golds and all these resources so that we can build。
up our own life.。
You know, that's what we care about.。
That's what we're concerned about.。
No.。
Jesus said, "Yes, you have to be a faithful steward.。
Yes, you have to manage the resources God has given to you.。
Yes."。
But Jesus cares so much more about your heart, about your life.。
Alright?。
The Holy Spirit is knocking on your door today.。
And Jesus is writing to you today.。
Where are you at this point?。
See how you worship me.。
See how you follow me.。
See how you pray to me.。
That's what Jesus cares about.。
Christ cares about your heart right now.。
Not in the past.。
Right now.。
Verse 4.。
"Yet you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their clothes.。
They will walk with me, dressed in white, for they are worthy.。
He who overcomes will, like them, be dressed in white.。
I will never blow out his name from the book of life, but will acknowledge his name, his。
reputation before my Father and his angels.。
He who has ears, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches."。
Right?。
Take note how Jesus look at the church.。
Jesus delighted to see only a few people.。
Only a few people in Sardis, in the churches of Sardis.。
And those few people have been faithful to him.。
Right?。
Have been faithful to him.。
Yes, God sees and God values and concerns about the faithful.。
Even though they are small in number, you have a few people I see.。
Right?。
God sees a few of them because they are dressed in white garments.。
In the book of Revelation, in the entire book, white garments and clean garments show up。
many many times and symbolize the positive things in our spiritual life.。
Purity, holiness, dedication, victory, and glory.。
Those are the people, the saints, who follow Christ faithfully no matter what.。
Right?。
There are some of the ways we should revitalize our spiritual relationship with God.。
Right?。
At this point I want to close in some time of reflection for all of us.。
Alright?。
And we want to do so, you know, quietly and to pray to God.。
And let me suggest to you, how do we revitalize our spiritual life?。
Remember what Jesus cares about.。
It's your heart.。
It's your heart.。
How do we revitalize our spiritual life?。
Number one, number one, God's grace, remember, God's grace and God's love is always there.。
Even we are not faithful at times.。
But his love never changes.。
Now we read through this letter and we find there are so many words of warning.。
We often take warning as punishment.。
Harsh and unkind words.。
Right?。
But the spiritual warning we find in the Bible, it is there because of God's love for us.。
It's not because God yearns to punish us, to yell at us.。
God out of his love, out of his grace, try to say those words of warning for all of us.。
He wants our names to be on the book of life.。
He wants our names to be remembered eternally.。
And that's why God wants us.。
So how do we go back to God and how do we revitalize our spirit?。
You know?。
So first, number one is don't you forget the grace of God, the love of Jesus, they are。
constant even though we may be faithless at times.。
And second is to repent.。
Is to repent.。
Repentance in the Bible is turned around 180 degree.。
Yes, I say to God, you know, "Sorry Jesus, help me return back to you."。
Right?。
So I have this prayer here.。
I have this prayer here.。
"Heavenly Father, thank you for everything you do for me.。
I come before you to repent of my sins."。
And what are those?。
The dotted lines.。
You can see.。
You can fill it in.。
You know.。
You know.。
Right?。
And I want to turn back to you.。
And that's our prayer today.。
Why don't we do that at this time?。
Reflect on the love of God and we turn, repent.。
Alright?。
Let's spend a minute or so and this is time before you, before the loving Christ.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Let's all pray this prayer together.。
"Heavenly Father, thank you for everything you do for me.。
I come before you to repent of my sins.。
Please help me turn away from my sins and turn toward you, Lord.。
I pray you would help me follow you faithfully and give me the strength and grace today.。
In Jesus' name I pray.。
Amen."。
With the love of God and grace of God, we are being sent out, okay, to follow Christ。
faithfully.。
So that's why I picked this verse of the month, okay?。
We did this for the first of the week.。
And I feel like maybe we're going so fast, too fast.。
First of the month, so in the next month, October, we're going to repeat that again。
and again, alright?。
And don't you understand this is not words of punishment.。
It's the words of loving promises from God.。
Here 1 John 1, 9 says, "If you confess, if we confess our sins, He, God, is faithful。
and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness."。
Remember this, the grace of God, alright?。
The forgiveness of sin.。
And we can start all over.。
To love Christ and follow Him faithfully, alright?。
With this word we are sent out and we have refreshment outside, right?。
I don't know, right?。
Yes, we do, right?。
And I want to do one thing new today.。
You know, a brother remind me when we have refreshment, sometimes we gather around our。
own little table, alright?。
May I ask you today to gather at the big table, alright?。
We're going to chat and we're going to talk about life, okay?。
And enjoy the food together, alright?。
Go to the big dining table, alright?。
If you can, okay?。
Squeeze in, alright?。
And then one o'clock we'll have the GA right here, General Assembly.。
And we have very important updates for you, especially financial updates, alright?。
Alright, God bless you.。
(soft music)。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
