Well, thank you, James, and thank you for leading us in worship.。
James and Annie really enjoyed that.。
And I'm excited to be here, always excited to be at Urban Voice。
and really enjoy being here with you all.。
Glad to be back again this morning.。
We're going to be looking in Acts chapter 11.。
So if you want to turn there。
in your Bible or in your Bible app, Acts chapter 11,。
we're going to be looking at verses 19 to 26 and looking at a special group。
of believers in this passage and in our world.。
The modern world that we live in, a lot of times what we see。
is that our world really values and celebrates and craves。
things that make a lot of noise.。
We we get excited about recognition and praise and fame and celebrity.。
Big, big accomplishments.。
That's what's important to us.。
And our culture really values that we value chatter and things that go viral.。
Those are the things that we like.。
And a lot of times we value that even over content.。
And this kind of milieu, it's less important。
what is being done or said and more important how many people hear it or see it.。
We kind of end up prizing noise over quality a lot of times.。
And sometimes even the most foolish or ridiculous moments。
can be praised and seem important or special。
just if enough people see them or notice them if they get enough views.。
And it's not just noise.。
Our world also assigns value based upon quantity.。
We look at things that are small, someone who's doing something small。
with small numbers, and we think that that is not very important.。
We might think it's inferior or even useless at some times.。
We look at something big that's being done with big numbers,。
and we think that that's a big deal.。
And so a lot of these cultural voices are constantly telling us。
to only do big things, to go big or go home.。
We're we're told that we should only ever dream big dreams。
and we should only give our time to something if it's going to be noticed.。
And sometimes we feel like if we're not getting noticed,。
if people are not seeing what we're doing,。
if we're not being recognized, if we feel unseen,。
then we feel worthless.。
We feel like we're failing. We feel like we are losing.。
We feel like if we're not accomplishing something big。
and earth-shaking and revolutionary, then we're getting nowhere.。
And if no one knows our name or no one sees us, then we have no worth.。
And culture often tells us these things explicitly and implicitly.。
And these things give us the impression that。
living an ordinary life is at best, you know, kind of。
failing to be what you should be or could be,。
and at worst, maybe just foolish and not even a good idea.。
But the problem here is that we lose sight of the value。
of the ordinary, of ordinary life and of ordinary obedience to Jesus.。
A lot of times we've forgotten how much we need lives of everyday usefulness,。
and we're ignorant of how profoundly these lives really weave together。
the fabric of our society and our world and support everything that our world contains.。
And sadly, a lot of times this is just as true in the church。
as it is in culture outside of the church.。
In the church, a lot of times we've lost our vision。
of the beauty of ordinary faith and the beauty of ordinary life,。
the beauty of ordinary obedience to Jesus.。
And this scripture is important because it helps to refocus our perspective.。
The reality is that the Bible consistently throughout the scripture,。
it consistently affirms the value of an ordinary life, of obedience to God。
and how essential that is in the kingdom of God.。
And it elevates this to a place of prominence and says that it's important。
and it's valued by God.。
It's honoring to God himself.。
Some of the biggest things that have happened in the kingdom of God。
have always taken place through the lives of unseen, anonymous,。
ordinary followers of Jesus.。
And that's what this passage points us to.。
So let's read these verses together.。
We're going to read Acts 11, verses 19 to 26.。
Now, those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen。
traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch,。
speaking the word to no one except Jews.。
But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene,。
who on coming to Antioch spoke to the Hellenists also,。
preaching the Lord Jesus and the hand of the Lord was with them.。
And a great number who believe turned to the Lord.。
The report of this came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem,。
and they sent Barnabas to Antioch.。
When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad and he exhorted them all。
to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose,。
for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith.。
And a great many people were added to the Lord.。
So Barnabas went to Tarshish to look for Saul.。
And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch for a whole year.。
They met with the church and taught a great many people.。
And in Antioch, the disciples were first called Christians.。
Now, this passage is about some very ordinary believers.。
In fact, they're so ordinary that we are told basically nothing about them.。
There's no names. There's no genealogies.。
There's no educational background, no social information about these believers,。
no positions of rank within their culture or their society.。
They're they're simply referred to as some of them。
with that them being followers of Jesus, saying some of these followers of Jesus.。
Yet their nameless testimony speaks so powerfully of God's work。
in their lives and through their lives, God's work in their community.。
God does something huge and powerful in Antioch through this group of nameless。
believers. And their testimony speaks to us powerfully。
about the beauty of lives lived in ordinary, faithful obedience to Jesus.。
So as we consider this passage, first, I want us to think about three points。
of what ordinary faithfulness is, talk about what it is.。
And then we're going to think about four points of what it does in our life。
when we live it out, try to answer those two questions.。
What is ordinary faithfulness to Jesus and what does it do in our lives?。
So first, let's think about what it is.。
What is ordinary faithfulness?。
The first thing I want us to see is that ordinary faithfulness。
is quiet devotion to Jesus.。
It's it's devotion to Jesus and our relationship with him.。
Now, what is devotion to Jesus? What does that mean?。
What does that look like?。
Well, devotion is the manifestation in our actions of the love。
and focus of our hearts.。
For example, I love my wife。
who is here today with me,。
and I seek to manifest that love by acts of devotion.。
So I should devote my time and my attention to her.。
I should serve her. I should listen to her.。
I should sacrifice for her. I should prioritize her.。
I should prioritize our relationship by making time for her.。
I should commit to value what she values.。
The things that are important to her should become important to me.。
I should love those that she loves and care for what she cares for.。
I should even build my schedule and structure。
the rhythms of my life around her and our relationship.。
If I'm doing that, then it'll be clear to her that I'm devoted to her.。
It'll be clear to other people that I'm devoted to her.。
So that's just kind of a simple example。
of what devotion looks like that we all should be able to grab onto and understand.。
The same is true of our relationship to Jesus.。
Devotion to Jesus looks like giving him the best of our time and attention.。
It looks like spending frequent, consistent, undistracted time。
connecting with Jesus through God's word in prayer and in worship.。
It looks like prioritizing our relationship with Jesus over other things in our lives,。
listening to his voice, serving him with our whole heart,。
being willing to sacrifice and put away things in our life。
that are going to pull us away from him, pull us into sin。
and seeking to commit ourselves to value what he values.。
The things that are important to Jesus should be important to us.。
We should love the things that lift him up in our lives and draw us closer to him.。
And we should stay away from stuff that takes us away from Christ.。
And we should build our schedules and the rhythms of our life。
around connection to God, making sure that we have time to connect with God.。
That's devotion to Jesus.。
And the reason I call this ordinary faithfulness quiet。
devotion is not because it's silent or noiseless.。
There are times when our devotion may be full of loud worship,。
but I call it quiet because it should be done。
not for recognition, not to be seen by others.。
It's not done to be noticed.。
It's done out of love for Jesus.。
It's not performative faithfulness to make myself feel better。
or to gain acknowledgement from other human beings or even to earn favor from God.。
It is simply a faithful obedience。
and devotion that is motivated by love for Jesus.。
That's pretty easy to understand, but not always easy to do.。
It requires God's grace at work in my heart, requires the activity,。
the Holy Spirit in my life, and it requires commitment day in and day out.。
It requires ordinary faithfulness.。
The next thing that ordinary faithfulness is。
is quiet obedience to God's commands.。
Ordinary faithfulness is obeying the things that God has told us to do。
and seeking to live out the character that God has instructed us to live out.。
I'll give us another simple example.。
Think about the fruits of the spirit in Galatians five.。
You know, the list here, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness,。
faithfulness, generosity, self-control.。
Think about that list now and ask yourself, do we live out those character traits?。
Are those the types of things that characterize our relationships at home。
with our family or at work with our coworkers, our boss, in our community。
with with the people that live around us or in our church?。
Are those things that characterize our relationships?。
That's something that God has commanded us to do, to live out those values.。
Speaking of church, are we obeying God's commands to be part of church?。
Are we engaged with the community of the people of God?。
Are we involved in a way that is honest and transparent in that community?。
Are we opening ourselves up to relationship with other believers?。
Are we loving and depending on that community?。
These are things that God has instructed us to do.。
Are we loving God with all of our heart?。
Are we putting nothing else before him?。
Are we loving those around us as much as we love ourselves?。
Obviously, there are a lot more to God's commands than that.。
But but that's a great place to start with just some of the simple things。
that we know God has told us to do.。
That's what it means to obey God's commands.。
Are we?。
To love God with all of our hearts, to love our spouses, our children,。
our parents, our brothers and sisters, our neighbors, our family in the church,。
to give, to serve, to uplift, to care for, to be peacemakers, to love truth,。
to stay away from sin.。
These are things that God has commanded us.。
And scripture is full of instruction about the kind of lives。
that God wants us to live.。
And we should be seeking to live that way, to obey God, God's commands.。
And again, I call this obedience quiet, not because it's silence at silent.。
At times it may be bold, but it's quiet because it's obedience.。
That's motivated by love for Jesus.。
It's empowered by God's work in our lives.。
It's not about us or recognition.。
It's not something that we serve to be seen.。
It's not for an audience other than Jesus.。
And the honest truth is it's not even possible to live out that life of obedience。
to God's commands if God's not already at work in your heart,。
if you don't already have relationship with him.。
Because once again, it's easy to understand but hard to do.。
It requires God's grace to love others.。
It requires God's work to help us forgive.。
It requires the activity of the Holy Spirit.。
It requires commitment day in and day out and faithfulness.。
The other thing I want us to see about what ordinary faithfulness is,。
ordinary faithfulness is the proclamation of God's message.。
The things we've talked about so far about ordinary faithfulness are really。
attitudes and actions.。
But it's more than attitudes and actions, there's also a verbal component that we。
have a story to tell.。
And yes, our actions speak and they're essential to that story that our actions。
honor God, but we also have words to tell.。
The scripture is clear that we should pair our actions with words that describe。
and explain and communicate the good news of the gospel, the good news of hope,。
forgiveness, grace, and salvation through Christ.。
And we proclaim God's message as we share the grand redemptive narrative of the。
Bible, God's loving creation of the universe, the relationship between God and。
humans that's broken because of human sin, then God's loving rescue and。
restoration that God sends through his only son, Jesus, the free gift of。
salvation that comes by God's grace and through faith in Jesus, God's ongoing work。
of loving restoration and recreation that he's doing in our world, in the universe,。
through the coming of his kingdom.。
That's the story that we have to tell.。
We can tell that grand, the big picture story, the grand narrative of redemption.。
But we also get to proclaim this message as we share the redemptive narrative of。
God's work in our own lives, God's loving creation of me and the broken relationship。
between God and me because of my sin, God's rescue of me through Jesus,。
the ongoing work of restoration and recreation that God is doing in my life。
and in my heart and changing me.。
We all have a personal version of this narrative to tell.。
And as we tell these redemptive stories, whether it's the grand narrative or our。
personal narrative, even if we're just telling a little bit, even if we're just。
able to share a small piece of that story of what God's done in our life or a small。
piece of God's love for someone else, and even if it's just a snippet at a time,。
as we tell those to the people around us, we obey God by proclaiming the message。
he's given us.。
And that's what we see in this passage.。
These believers, these ordinary faithful believers, they were just talking to people。
and telling the story of God's love and redemption.。
So those are some of the things that ordinary faithfulness is in our lives.。
And I want us to think now about some of the things that ordinary faithfulness does.。
At first, we see that ordinary faithfulness points to the beauty of the gospel.。
Now, the followers of Jesus that are referred to in this passage,。
as we talked about earlier, they're ordinary, they're normal people,。
they're not wealthy or upper-class people.。
And we can assume this because verse 19 tells us they came to Antioch because they。
were fleeing the persecution in Jerusalem.。
And that's the persecution that started when Stephen was martyred and the people。
stoned him and Saul, who would later become Paul, was watching over their coats.。
That's story in Acts 8.3.。
So the people that are fleeing this persecution, if you think about any time。
of social upheaval or crisis, the refugees are usually the ones from the lowest rungs。
of the economic ladder, right?。
People with more wealth and status, they have more ways to kind of stay safe and。
to insulate themselves.。
But the people who don't are usually the poor people, the people who don't have。
as much.。
And so they're the ones who are forced to flee.。
So that's probably who these people in Antioch were.。
They were not the aristocrats from the church at Jerusalem that had to flee。
to Antioch.。
They were just normal families.。
And we know they were families because in Acts 8.3, it talks about the fact that Saul,。
when the persecution started, he was going house to house and dragging out men。
and women.。
So we know these were men, women, and families, just normal people who loved。
Jesus, who were living their lives.。
And because of this persecution, now they have to flee to another city,。
to Antioch.。
That's the picture we have here.。
They're not wealthy or powerful.。
They're not influential.。
They don't have status.。
And yet, God uses them in an amazingly powerful way.。
This passage tells us that God uses them to bring a great many people into the。
family of God.。
It tells us that the hand of the Lord was with them.。
God uses them to do something amazing and powerful.。
So what's so amazing about these people?。
Were they amazing communicators?。
Were they really compelling in the way they shared the gospel?。
What was it about these people?。
Well, we know ultimately the answer to that is that God was at work,。
the Holy Spirit was at work in their lives.。
This was the work of God.。
But I think we can also see in this passage that a part of what was amazing。
about these people was they were living lives of faithful and beautiful and,。
yes, ordinary devotion to Jesus that aligned perfectly with the words that they。
were proclaiming.。
They weren't known for being important or great or viral.。
They weren't known for being influencers.。
They were just known for living these God-honoring lives of faithfulness and。
beauty and obedience to God.。
And we see this testimony reinforced throughout the history of the church.。
For every name that you might think of that's great in the history of the church,。
for every Martin Luther or Billy Graham or whatever name you might think of,。
there are hundreds of thousands of ordinary faithful believers who lived their。
lives, loved their families, loved their spouses, loved their children,。
served their neighbors.。
They helped the sick and helped the poor, and they told people the story of Jesus.。
And many of them even suffered in ways that we can't even really wrap our minds。
around, but we don't know their names.。
But their lives of ordinary faithfulness glorified God and brought people to God。
and brought people into the kingdom.。
That's the history of the church.。
That's the history of the church right now.。
The modern moment of the church, all of the growth and all the exciting things。
that God is doing are in places where you don't know the names of those people.。
There's not pastors in villages in China or in Africa or in the Middle East that。
most of us would know their names.。
They're not famous.。
And yet, they're living lives of faithful obedience to God, and God is using them to。
do amazing and powerful things.。
The goodness of the character of God that we read about throughout scripture was。
reflected in the lives of these followers of Jesus.。
Things like reconciliation, forgiveness, peace, the fruits of the spirit that we。
talked about a moment ago, the shalom and wholeness of living out the values of the。
kingdom of God, the manifestation of true agape love, something that our world is so。
hungry for, the wonder of being full of grace but also being full of truth and。
speaking the truth, obeying God's commands, living a life of righteousness。
before him, all these things are what define these ordinary believers.。
Their lives pointed to the beauty of the gospel.。
That's what ordinary faithfulness does, and that's just as true for us.。
This can still happen when we live a life of ordinary faithfulness.。
Our ordinary, everyday, faithful obedience to God points to the beauty of the gospel.。
It strips away all the noise of ourselves and our ambition, our pride,。
our branding, our mess, and it brings to the forefront the simple,。
beautiful things that make a life of following Jesus an incredible experience。
of both growth through difficult trials and also joyful rest in his strength and。
who he is.。
It points to the wonder of the good news of God's grace, the good news of the。
gospel, the good news of the love of God.。
Ordinary faithfulness points to the beauty of the gospel.。
Ordinary faithfulness also puts Jesus at the center.。
This is one of the coolest things about this passage to me.。
In verse 26, we see that the disciples were first called Christians in this。
Antioch church, and this statement is a little bit astonishing in itself.。
Why were they not called that before?。
But it tells us the defining characteristic of this movement taking place in Antioch。
was Jesus Christ.。
Isn't that cool?。
Jesus was the thing that outsiders noticed and remembered and gave credit to.。
That's because this work was a movement of God through ordinary believers.。
So there was no celebrity preacher they could name this movement after.。
There was no wealthy donor that was driving things that they could name this。
movement after.。
There was no local landmark that they wanted to name it after.。
There wasn't an affiliation to describe this group, no river or park or anything。
else.。
This wasn't called the Olive Tree Mission or the Broad Street Gathering.。
The only description that outsiders could think of to describe what was going on was。
Jesus.。
I think that's so cool and so powerful.。
And I think it's a challenge to us.。
What if our local churches left that kind of impression?。
Jesus was at the center of this church and he was at the center of this movement.。
And when people on the outside looked at it, Jesus was the only thing that they saw。
and God received the glory.。
And that's why they began to call these people Christians because they were named。
them after Jesus.。
This is what ordinary faithfulness does.。
It puts Jesus at the center.。
It lifts him up.。
And here's a reality that's hard.。
It's hard for me.。
If we are living a life of ordinary faithfulness, a lot of times we're going to feel small.。
We're going to feel unseen.。
But we have to learn to embrace this reality rather than fight against it.。
Because when we are made small, then God is made big in people's eyes.。
When we are obscured, then God is made obvious.。
And that's actually what we want.。
What a beautiful way to glorify God and put Jesus at the center by being faithful in those。
small, ordinary, obscure ways.。
And that's what it did in this passage.。
Next thing I want us to see is that ordinary faithfulness brings us purpose and peace and。
freedom.。
It brings something beautiful to us.。
Learning to embrace ordinary faithfulness gives us a healthy sense of purpose in our。
daily lives.。
You know, a lot of us, or at least me, maybe I'm just talking to myself here, but a lot。
of us awake each day both overwhelmed and underwhelmed with purpose.。
We're overwhelmed because we want to accomplish so much.。
We want to do such great things.。
We're pressured and crushed by the weight of all the stuff we have to do and how long。
our to-do list is.。
We know we want to make great strides and we want to have a lasting impact and we want。
to be impossibly productive and get so much stuff done.。
And, you know, we want to make astounding profits in whatever business endeavors we。
have.。
We want to give back to the community.。
And of course, we want to leave a legacy for others.。
There's so much that we want to do that it's just overwhelming.。
But at the same time, the relentless demands of our calendars also leave us underwhelmed。
because even though we have these lofty ambitions, our days are full of mundane tasks.。
And we have to do all these mundane things in our families, at work, around the house,。
in our communities.。
So we're underwhelmed because we feel like we spend so much time doing things that don't。
matter or maybe they're even useless.。
And we wonder if we're wasting our time or sometimes we wonder if we're wasting our lives.。
And living a life of ordinary faithfulness speaks to both of those emotional quagmires。
and gives us truth.。
First of all, living a life of ordinary faithfulness to God relieves the pressure of being overwhelmed。
by questions of purpose.。
We don't have to live our day with the weight of all that we must accomplish.。
We don't feel like we need to change the world and leave our mark in just 24 hours.。
We can live the day with a simple understanding of what is significant and important.。
Be devoted to Jesus today.。
Obey God's commands today.。
Live out his truth.。
Share his message.。
It's that simple.。
We can know that our purpose is actually modest and clear for today and for this week and。
for this year.。
And further, we can learn to rest in the truth that with the power of God at work in our。
life that purpose is actually attainable.。
By God's grace, we can actually be faithful in the small things that he's given us to。
do.。
And this day has purpose and it has value.。
And I don't have to feel rushed to accomplish everything at once because there is time for。
what's truly important.。
There is time for ordinary faithfulness to Jesus.。
And second, living a life of ordinary faithfulness imbues even the smallest aspects of my life。
with deep purpose.。
I'm reminded here of this brother Lawrence who was this medieval Christian monk and he。
wrote this classic called Practicing the Presence of God.。
And in it, he says that when he was doing his work in the kitchen, he had to work for。
decades in the kitchen peeling potatoes and doing these mundane things.。
It says that he having accustomed himself to do everything there for the love of God。
and with prayer upon all occasions for his grace to do his work well, he found everything。
easy during the 15 years that he had been employed there.。
So this man spent decades of his life peeling potatoes and doing menial kitchen tasks.。
But he found a way to see this work as honoring and pleasing to God and he found a way to。
connect with God while he did it.。
So he can peel potatoes with purpose and significance, then surely we can be faithful at our workplaces。
or in our homes and see it as honoring to God.。
We don't have to be underwhelmed by mundane tasks.。
We can find purpose in glorifying God even as we vacuum the house or finish up those。
reports for our boss or run errands or help a neighbor install a new thermostat.。
When we're preparing a meal or helping a classmate or cleaning a messy floor or even changing。
diapers, we can do those things as acts of devotion to Jesus because we love him and。
want to love others who he loves.。
We can do these things as acts of obedience because God commanded us to serve others and。
give to others and care for others.。
We can find purpose in even the smallest tasks in our lives.。
And embracing ordinary faithfulness can also give us peace.。
You know, a lot of us grew up on Disney movies and so we heard a lot of things like if you。
can dream it, you can do it or there's no limit to what you can accomplish if you put。
your mind to it and work hard.。
Nothing wrong with those things, but sometimes those things, even though they were meant。
to boost our confidence and inspire us, they built into an expectation that we started。
to feel like we were actually supposed to change the world and change everything.。
Maybe we feel like we're supposed to start something really big, some big company that。
makes a lot of money or that changes everybody's lives or we feel like we should, you know,。
save the world, clean all the carbon out of the atmosphere and save all the animals everywhere.。
We feel like we've got to do so much.。
And even in the church, we feel this way.。
We feel like we need to embrace all the causes and support all the needs and right all the。
wrongs and sometimes we're frustrated because we haven't made more progress.。
Why haven't we fed all the hunger yet or whatever it is that we want to do?。
Those are good things and it's good to have big dreams and big ideas, but sometimes that。
becomes a pressure that begins to crush us.。
And if we're honest, that unspoken expectation can become very heavy, so heavy that we can't。
live up to it.。
And when we figure out we can't live up to it, a lot of times we're discouraged.。
It can damage our faith and cause us to despair.。
It can even cause us to give up on trying to make a difference or even give up on our。
faith and our trust in God.。
The reality is we were never supposed to change the world.。
Only God can do that.。
Only God can do the big things.。
We can't save anyone.。
We can't even change our own hearts.。
God is God.。
Jesus is the Savior of the world and we are not.。
And there's actually freedom in knowing that.。
Freedom as we get out from under the crushing burden of pressure and expectation that we're。
supposed to fix things, freedom as we understand that we're not responsible to do something。
that we never could have done in the first place.。
I can't do it.。
There's freedom in saying those words and in understanding that, that God created us。
with limitations and that's okay.。
But simply acknowledging our inadequacy isn't enough because it might lead us to despair。
if we don't also at the same time see God's power.。
It's not just enough to see our weakness, we need to see God's strength.。
And when we do that, we find peace.。
Peace as we see that God can change us, he can change our world and he is at work to。
do both.。
Peace as we realize that by God's grace we can be used by him to take part in his global。
restoration project that is his kingdom and is accomplished through his church, through。
us.。
Yes, only God can do big things, but he can use his people doing small things to do a。
big thing.。
He can use us.。
Our actions matter and there's so much peace and freedom in knowing that.。
And then we see that ordinary faithfulness is fruitful beyond our imagination.。
What fruit comes out of this passage?。
It's more fruitful and healthy and impactful than anyone could have imagined.。
First the church at Antioch becomes the first multi-ethnic church.。
Before this the church was an assembly of Jewish believers.。
In Acts 13.1 we read the people who are part of the leadership of this church and it's。
a list of people from North Africa, from all over the Mediterranean, very different diverse。
backgrounds and diverse people groups.。
This church becomes the first multi-ethnic church.。
It's a major turning point in history, in Christian history to go from a Jewish background。
movement to a multi-ethnic background movement.。
God does something amazing through this church.。
But also this church becomes the main missionary sending church of the New Testament.。
If you go on through the book of Acts you see in Acts 13.2 and 3 the church at Antioch。
commissions Paul and Barnabas, prays over them and sends them out on the first missionary。
and church planning journey.。
In Acts 14.26 to 28 Paul and Barnabas come back to the Antioch church to give a report。
of what God did on this journey.。
In Acts 15.40 Paul and Silas are sent out again and commended by the Antioch church.。
In Acts 18.22 Paul once again returns from his church planning and strengthening journey。
and comes back to the church at Antioch.。
And these passages show that to Paul and to the Antioch believers themselves this church。
shared in the fruit of the missionary journeys.。
God used this church to be a part of planning churches in Philippi, Corinth, Thessalonica,。
Ephesus, Galatia.。
All these things we read about came out of the lives of these ordinary nameless unknown。
believers.。
They did something small in obedience to God and God used it to do something really, really。
big.。
So how do we respond to this passage?。
I think this passage is both a challenge and an encouragement to us.。
For some of us it's an encourage, it's a challenge maybe to reorient some of our priorities。
towards lives of devotion to Christ and obedience to God's commands and sharing his message。
and doing those simple and ordinary things that maybe we've been too busy to do or we've。
been too distracted or we've been focused on other things.。
Maybe we need to reorient towards those things.。
But for all of us I hope this passage is an encouragement, it's an encouragement as we。
deal with the day-to-day tasks of our lives and we find ourselves confronted with the。
reality that our reach is shorter than our grasp, we're not able to accomplish all that。
we want to and we feel small and insignificant, we feel unseen in those moments, we're unsure。
if we're having lasting impact, sometimes we're afraid that we're failing or we're doing。
something futile.。
This passage assures us that if we're living a life of obedience to God we are not unseen.。
Our days are not futile.。
By God's grace we can accomplish more than we know and our contributions even though。
they may seem small, they're used by God to do something big in our world.。
God is powerful and great and good and he is at work and so if we'll live this life。
of ordinary faithfulness to him he'll use it in a powerful way.。
I want to close just by encouraging us to remember there's nothing wrong with dreaming。
big dreams or wanting to do something big for God or do something big in your life,。
that's fine and God might have that for you but here's the reality, living for Jesus is。
certainly a lot more than ordinary faithfulness but it is never less.。
No matter how much God has for you in your life it will never be more than that moment。
of devotion to him.。
Then it will never be more than that obedience to his commands and that sharing his message。
with other.。
It may turn into something really big, a lot more than ordinary faithfulness but it'll。
never be less than that.。
Let's pray.。
God thank you for the truth of your word, thank you for this passage and these believers。
and what a testimony they are to us.。
We don't know any of their names or their histories or their stories but you use them。
in such a powerful way.。
They were ordinary faithful people that just honored you with their lives and God I pray。
that that would be true of us, I pray it would be true of me.。
That I would be devoted to you, that I would obey your commands, that I would share your。
message with others and that you would get all the glory for everything that you do in。
my heart and life.。
In Jesus name.。
