Thank you very much for coming,。
and we're gonna worship God together,。
and we're gonna turn to our series,。
which is the festivals,。
the important days in the Old Testament.。
So we talk about the Sukkot, Tabernacle.。
We talk about Shabbat.。
Then today, we talk about another important festival。
that talks about in the Bible.。
So let's see.。
Let me start with these questions, okay?。
Now, we often know there's a relation or association。
with some festival or holidays with some food, right?。
When you think of some holidays or some festivals,。
you always think of some sort of food, right?。
Food items related to the festival.。
Thanksgiving, what do you think of?。
- Turkey.。
- Yeah, turkey, right?。
- Hot pot.。
- Hot pot, yes, hot pot, yeah.。
So when Thanksgiving comes,。
and you're gonna prepare some food。
that is related to the festival,。
Christmas, what do you eat?。
- Hot pot.。
- Hot pot, yes, hot pot, yeah.。
How about the New Year's?。
How about the New Year's?。
- Hot pot.。
(congregation laughing)。
- How about the Chinese New Year?。
- Dumplings.。
- Dumplings, yes, dumplings.。
Okay, finally, something other than hot pot.。
How about Valentine's Day?。
I asked my wife, what do we eat on Valentine's Day?。
- Steak.。
- Steak, oh, okay.。
I thought you were gonna say hot pot.。
(laughing)。
All right, so the food items related to the festival。
or the holidays of the calendar,。
and we think about what the Bible says about Passover,。
what do you think of?。
Food item.。
What food items are related to Passover?。
Yeah, unleavened bread, yeah.。
And lamb, yes, the lamb, right?。
In fact, one of those big items。
that they will prepare for Passover,。
at least for the Old Testament time,。
the ancient Israelites,。
they will do prepare lamb, Passover lamb, right?。
So one family will take one lamb,。
and they will consume it,。
and they will offer the rest of it to God.。
And this is right at the first Passover,。
right at the eve when they leave Egypt,。
when God is going to judge the nation,。
judge the nation of Egypt,。
to destroy Pharaoh and his empire.。
So judgment of God will come.。
And then right before it comes,。
the 10th plague, plague number 10,。
which is judging the firstborn sons。
of Egypt, right before the divine judgment。
comes to the land of Egypt,。
God said, "You're gonna prepare a meal,。
"because you're gonna go, you're gonna go in a hurry.。
"You're gonna go in a hurry in the time of judgment,。
"and I'm gonna save you out of death and of judgment."。
So it says in Exodus chapter 12,。
"And now the whole community of Israel,。
"when they were still living in the land of bondage,。
"in the land of slavery in Egypt,。
"on the 10th day of this month,。
"each family, you would choose a lamb,。
"young goat, for a sacrifice,。
"one animal for each household."。
And this is the instruction.。
Be fully prepared, fully dressed,。
wear your sandals, carry your walking stick in your hand.。
Now, that's interesting,。
because the ancient Israelites,。
they go into someone's home,。
they will take off their shoes, just like us, right?。
Most of the Asians, we come to someone's house,。
or go back to your home,。
you take off your sandals, you take off your shoes.。
Here, when they eat inside the home,。
they need to put on their shoes, right?。
They need to get prepared,。
and dress themselves, fully dressed,。
so that they are ready to go.。
They are eating in a hurry, with urgency,。
because that night is gonna be the Passover of the Lord.。
Now, what does it mean?。
They would kill the lamb,。
and then they would take some blood,。
and smear on the doorpost, or the lintel of the door.。
And then, when the angel of judgment。
passes through the entire land of Egypt,。
it will see the doorpost,。
it will smear with blood, and it will pass over,。
it will skip that house.。
And that is the story of salvation.。
In times of judgment, the angel of the Lord,。
the judgment of God, come to the land,。
and they will be safe, the Israelites will be safe.。
So it talks about blood, talks about judgment,。
talks about protection, talks about redemption.。
God's gonna save his people。
out of the land of darkness, out of the land of slavery.。
So they get prepared.。
So this is the first Passover,。
and then year after year,。
they're gonna celebrate this festival,。
which is one of the most important festivals。
of all other holidays,。
because it marks the most important acts of God,。
that they are being saved from slavery, from bondage,。
and they are being redeemed.。
So year after year, Jews,。
wherever they live, in diaspora,。
in different parts of the world,。
they will go back to Jerusalem,。
go back to the temple, especially in Jesus' time.。
It was one of the highest holiday of the year,。
and right about the time of spring,。
March and April,。
and they will come to Jerusalem for a week to celebrate.。
And in that week, the population of Jerusalem。
will skyrocket two times or three times of their population.。
And they will come around the city,。
and then they will go into the city,。
and they will arrange a big meal,。
which is the Passover meal, sacrificial lamb.。
They're gonna remember what God had done。
in their history, in their life.。
Now, we talk about the Passover,。
thinking of food item being the sacrificial lamb.。
But the Jews, the Israelites,。
when they think about the Passover,。
they think about what God had done in their lives.。
It's not just the lamb.。
They think about the whole package,。
the whole package of God's redemption.。
So let's do some review.。
When you think of the book of Exodus,。
when the Israelites came out of Egypt,。
what are the events follow after Passover?。
What are the events?。
Think about it.。
Huh?。
- Crossing the Red Sea.。
- Yeah, crossing the Red Sea.。
Crossing the Red Sea, and then after what?。
What happened?。
Crossing the Red Sea, where did they go?。
Did they go to Chicago?。
- The wilderness.。
- The wilderness, yes.。
We have a Buddhist student here.。
We got all the answers.。
So after crossing the Red Sea, God split the Red Sea.。
There's a water miracle,。
and then they go into the wilderness for 40 years, right?。
And then they receive the Ten Commandments。
and all that stuff.。
And then in the wilderness,。
who is going to provide for them?。
What do they eat?。
There's nothing in the wilderness.。
What do they eat?。
- Manna.。
- They eat, yeah, they eat manna, right?。
Manna.。
So when they think about the Passover,。
they think about the story of Exodus,。
they don't just think about just one lamb and that's it.。
They think about a whole series of events,。
the entire process that God will bring about。
the salvation to his people from the start to the end.。
So from the start, Moses is gonna come, right?。
And lead the nation as a shepherd,。
and lead the entire people out of Egypt.。
Sacrificial lamb, we talk about it.。
And then for one week,。
they will celebrate with unleavened bread, right?。
Because you're in a hurry, right?。
You don't have time to wait for the yeast。
to take the effect, right?。
So they're gonna eat unleavened bread.。
And the,。
you know, if you have baked bread before, right?。
You know how many hours or how much time you have to wait。
for the yeast to take effect, right?。
The dough, you know?。
It's very time consuming.。
So when they are leaving Egypt in a hurry,。
God is saying to them,。
"You're gonna eat unleavened bread.。
"Don't wait, you gotta go.。
"You gotta go by my command."。
And then they go to the shore of Red Sea,。
and then God split the water, conquered the water,。
and they go through it on dry ground,。
going to the wilderness,。
and the people grumble,。
complain about,。
"Hey, is God gonna provide for us what we need?"。
Right?。
And then through Moses,。
God sent food from heaven, manna, right?。
What's manna?。
What is it?。
Now, according to the description in the Bible,。
in the book of Exodus,。
it's something like a round stuff, you know?。
It's like a biscuit or something, right?。
Well, the point is we don't know.。
We just don't know what it is, right?。
In fact, the biblical story talk about the manna.。
The Israelite did not know what it is.。
So when the first time, the very first time,。
very first day, God sent the manna to the field,。
they go collect the manna,。
what did they say?。
They say, "Ma set, ma set."。
Ma set is in Hebrew.。
It means what it is.。
Ma is what.。
Set is this.。
And what the heck is this?。
So that's why you got the name manna, right?。
Ma set, manna, manna, all right?。
So the most important point is we just don't know what it is.。
But when they grumble, when they complain about it,。
God gives them food, rain from heaven,。
raining down from heaven, manna from heaven.。
And then as the story goes from the Old Testament,。
you know, go back all the way to Exodus。
and all the way down to the kingdoms。
and all the way down to the time of Jesus.。
And then the Jews, the ancient Israelites,。
will think about and remember Passover。
and adding a lot of stories to it.。
And one of the interesting stories they add。
around the time of Jesus is that they,。
because according to the story of the Old Testament,。
when they went through the wilderness for 40 years,。
God gave them manna day after day, right?。
And then right after they crossed the River Jordan,。
they entered into the promised land.。
In the book of Joshua, it says, there's no more manna.。
It stopped raining from heaven, no more manna,。
because they're gonna eat the produce。
from the land of Canaan.。
So some of the Jews around the time of Jesus,。
they would say, you know, because the manna stopped,。
because there was a bank, there was a treasury in heaven,。
raining down manna to all of them.。
And when they entered the land of Canaan,。
the bank is closed, the treasury, the storage is closed.。
And who closed it?。
Who has the power to close it?。
Moses.。
Moses has the key.。
So he opened the treasury for 40 years,。
raining down manna to the people of Israel in the wilderness。
for 40 years.。
After they entered Canaan, Moses closed it.。
So they eat the produce of the land.。
So when the Jews thinking about the story,。
they have the legend, they have a legendary telling。
that someday in the future, when God's salvation。
is gonna be fulfilled ultimately,。
then Moses will come again and open that bank.。
It's like an ATM, open it again,。
and manna will come from heaven again.。
Now you think about the whole story,。
you can tie different things together,。
and you can think of some of the description。
that the gospel talks about Jesus.。
Talk about Passover, talk about what Jesus。
will ultimately do to fulfill the salvation.。
Now let's take a look.。
The gospel of John, John chapter six.。
Now remember what I said about what we thought about。
the entire Passover, the entire Exodus story,。
the entire package, the manna and all that stuff.。
Read the story, you will read it in new light.。
The gospel of John chapter six.。
It was nearly the time for the Jewish Passover celebration.。
And Jesus saw a big crowd of people。
coming to look for him.。
And then he said to Philip, one of his 12 disciples,。
"Where can we buy food for them?。
"How do we feed these people?"。
There's so many of them.。
So you know how the story goes,。
it's the five loaves and two fish.。
Five loaves and two fish.。
It's one of the most well-known Jesus miracles of all.。
Because all four gospel, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John,。
talk about this story, five loaves and two fish.。
We think about this little story,。
five loaves and two fish, it's a very nice story,。
it's a very nice children's story, kid's story.。
I'm sure they all heard of it in our Sunday school.。
And we think about the provision of God,。
God provides and Jesus provides.。
But here, there's something very interesting.。
Sixth four, John at the statement,。
Matthew, Mark and Luke did not record the story。
the same way.。
John, at one special statement,。
it was the time of Passover.。
It was the time of Passover that the five loaves。
and two fish story happened.。
Now in the gospel of John, all the great deeds,。
all the great acts of Jesus are signs.。
John called them signs.。
Now what is a sign?。
What is a sign?。
When you're driving on highway, for example,。
you drive on the highway and on the right side,。
you see a sign, Chicago, 21 miles.。
The sign is not Chicago.。
So you don't hit the sign.。
The sign is pointing you to the reality in the future.。
The sign is pointing you to something else。
because signs is always pointing beyond itself.。
So all the great acts of Jesus are actually signs。
and telling you there was some deeper meaning to it.。
There was some reality the sign is pointing to.。
You go to a restaurant, you pick up a menu,。
you see picture of fish.。
You don't eat the menu.。
You see the menu is the sign.。
The menu is the sign for the reality.。
You eat the fish that is cooked by the restaurant.。
The reality comes to your table and then you partake it.。
You take it, you take it in.。
Menu is set aside.。
Now this is what John is doing.。
John is recording this story in a special way。
to tell you what it means.。
So if you look at the entire chapter six of the gospel of。
John, it's a very long chapter.。
We're not going to study it verse by verse.。
But I'll give you the outline here.。
This is John six.。
There are a few things that you need to understand.。
There were a couple of stories.。
And then there were a bunch of things that recorded。
about the dialogues or the debate between the Jews。
and Jesus and then finally his disciples.。
Now what kind of stories are being recorded here?。
Of course the five loaves and two fish, right?。
Jesus feeds 5,000 people.。
Nice story.。
But following this story,。
John recorded that Jesus calms the sea of Galilee.。
There was a storm story.。
Now why put it in such a way, you know, back,。
front and back, you know, together?。
Remember Exodus.。
Remember the Passover, the whole package.。
What kind of miracles are being recorded?。
The Red Sea miracle.。
God controlled the sea.。
God conquered the sea so that his people are safe.。
What a miracle.。
And then feeding the 5,000,。
feeding the people in wilderness.。
The Exodus story is all about, you know,。
raining down manna.。
God is going to provide for them in the wilderness.。
Even they complain about it, even they grumble about it.。
For 40 years, God is going to give them breath from heaven.。
So John's putting different things together.。
It's like a TV show producer, you know,。
orchestrate everything, different stories,。
pack it together so that you know who Jesus really is。
and what Jesus has done for you.。
The food miracle.。
And then the water miracle.。
So Jesus is doing something that the Jews,。
when they heard about this story,。
they understand what it means.。
There are different things here, feeding 5,000,。
the water miracle, people grumbling.。
Now, you can see part three, four, and five。
are all about talking.。
There's so much talking.。
You know, first time I confess, I read John 6.。
I just don't know what the heck are you talking about?。
They ask Jesus some questions,。
they debate about the meaning,。
and then Jesus taught them different things.。
You know, but the entire John 6。
is all about in the wilderness。
when people are grumbling, complaining.。
In fact, some of the Jews heard about what Jesus said,。
they left.。
Originally, they were disciples.。
They follow Jesus, but when they heard about。
some of the teachings of Jesus in chapter six of John,。
they didn't understand and they were confused.。
That's why at the end of the story, they left.。
They complained and then they left.。
Then toward the end, Jesus round up the whole thing。
and asked the 12 disciples, "Are you gonna leave too?"。
Remember one of the disciples, Simon Peter?。
He said, "You have the eternal word of God.。
"Who shall we follow?。
"Who else shall we follow?。
"We're gonna follow you."。
Now, let's take a look at some of the verses。
and see what the story means about Jesus.。
627.。
Now, when they're talking about the food,。
remember the first story, Jesus fed 5,000.。
Some of the people are following,。
big crowd are following him.。
Try to use your imagination.。
If you're one of those who experienced。
the feeding of 5,000,。
what would be your immediate response?。
If you go to a restaurant with your friend。
and your friend pay for your dinner,。
he said, "It's gonna be free.。
"I'm gonna pay for you."。
What would be your immediate response?。
Wow, okay, wow.。
The next day, what would be your immediate response?。
You're gonna call your friend,。
"Hey, let's go out for dinner again."。
Yeah, right?。
'Cause every meal, you're gonna pay for it, right?。
So this is how the people react.。
So they were looking for Jesus。
after the 5,000 feeding miracle.。
They were looking for Jesus,。
just disappear and on the other side of the sea.。
So they ride on the boat and then they come to Jesus。
and say, "Hey, can you give me more?。
"Can you give me more?。
"'Cause you just gave me one day of the daily bread.。
"Okay, that's good, all right?。
"How about tomorrow's dinner?。
"Or the dinner's after tomorrow, right?"。
So Jesus was telling them,。
"Do not be so concerned。
"about perishable things like food.。
"Spend your energy seeking the eternal life。
"the Son of Man can give you."。
Perishable food.。
Don't be so concerned about things that perish.。
Now think about the Exodus story.。
When man came, the first week,。
some of the ancient Israelites, as the story goes,。
they collect more than they need.。
And they put it back into their tent in their home.。
And then the next day, it mowed.。
It mowed.。
They didn't trust God.。
They didn't trust God enough for daily bread.。
So they collect maybe two days, three days, right?。
Just like going out with your generous friend,。
you're gonna order more.。
And then as we talk, you're gonna put it in your to-go box.。
But it mowed and it rot.。
Perishable things.。
Jesus said, "Don't be so concerned."。
Yes, you need to plan, you need to be responsible,。
you need to work.。
However, don't be so concerned about perishable things.。
Aren't we all do that?。
Aren't we all like that?。
We're too concerned about things that will perish, right?。
You're gonna store up your money, store up your food,。
because we worry, right?。
Many of us, Chinese heritage,。
food is so important to us, right?。
Food is too important for us.。
Jesus says something is more important.。
Seek the life, seek the food。
that the Son of Man can give to us.。
34, the crowd said to Jesus,。
"Sir, give us that bread."。
How about every day, all right?。
Pay for our dinner every day, all right?。
So we don't have to work for it.。
Thinking about Moses, opening the treasury.。
Hey, can you be that Moses?。
Can you just be that Moses,。
and every day we're gonna have bread on the field,。
we don't have to work for it.。
And Jesus said, "Don't be so concerned about it,。
"because I'm gonna give you food that will last,。
"that will not perish."。
35, Jesus replied, "I am the bread of life.。
"Whoever comes to me will never be hungry again.。
"Whoever believes me will never be thirsty."。
Jesus is saying, "I'm not just giving you food."。
He said, "I am the food."。
That's kind of astonishing, right?。
When you have dinner with your friend,。
your generous friend,。
your generous friend, all of a sudden, if he say to you,。
"I am not the dish in front of you, I am the dish."。
You say, "This guy's nuts."。
Give you a plate of fish, I give you fish,。
however, I am the fish, man.。
What are you gonna say?。
You say, "Jesus, what are you talking about?"。
In fact, that's what the people react.。
They say, "That's crazy."。
Now, of course, the language is metaphor, right?。
When Jesus said, "I am the bread of life,。
"you believe in me, you will be safe,。
"you have eternal life."。
It's metaphor, because we eat bread and we drink water.。
We don't believe in bread, we don't believe in water.。
It's metaphorical.。
The bread is Jesus himself, right?。
As the story goes, 51, he said, "I am the bread of life."。
Jesus said, "I am the bread of life。
"who came down from heaven, from the treasury of heaven.。
"I'm not just the one, I'm not like Moses。
"with the key open the depository in heaven,。
"treasure in heaven to rain down food for you.。
"I am the food, I'm the living bread,。
"came down from heaven, anyone who eats this bread。
"will live forever."。
Now, what is this bread?。
My flesh.。
We cannot take a bite of your arm or something.。
It's a metaphor.。
Now, people in the ancient days,。
especially in the agricultural world,。
where you have to farm and you have to harvest,。
you get your food.。
People understand almost everything they eat。
is something that has died, right?。
You think about it, even today,。
when you go to a fast food restaurant,。
you get a hamburger,。
you eat something that has died, right?。
What has died in order to serve you the hamburger?。
Wheat and barley made into flour,。
and flour baked into bread, right?。
The lettuce, tomato, pickles, the plants,。
somehow they die being harvested.。
Serve within the hamburger, the patty.。
The animal die so that you can protect the flesh,。
and you get the hamburger, right?。
Unless you're eating a hamburger totally engineered,。
you know, genetically, you know, like a McDonald, right?。
Even the flies gonna eat it.。
Everything that we eat entails some death.。
Something has died in order to serve us food。
to keep us going, and people understood it.。
If we continue to live, other living things need to die.。
If those things don't die, what will happen?。
You die.。
You gotta have something else die for you。
so that you can live, right?。
Jesus is using this metaphor.。
He said, "I am the Passover lamb.。
"I am the manna.。
"I am the water.。
"I die so that you can live."。
Our daily bread needs, you know, daily things to die.。
Eternal bread give us eternal life.。
It's not just daily life, eternal life.。
Jesus is the Passover.。
He died so that we can have life,。
and that's why almost all the songs that we sing in worship。
have to do with the death of Jesus,。
His sacrifice, His sacrificial act, the Passover.。
He sacrificed Himself so that we can live.。
He died on the cross, and He shed His blood。
so that we can live, we can have eternal life.。
Well, we're going to observe the communion today.。
I want you to understand all the things。
that we talk about about the Passover。
are signs pointing to the reality.。
The Son of God died on the cross because He loves you.。
He loves me so that we can be redeemed.。
We can live forever.。
As we take the cup and the bread, the communion,。
there are also signs pointing to the reality.。
If we partake it, if we take the bread,。
that means we're receiving Jesus, we believe in Jesus.。
We're going to have eternal life.。
That's going to change the whole world for you.。
Whatever we work for, wherever we are,。
we're going to change because our identity change.。
We are the sons and daughters of God.。
We belong to the kingdom.。
We belong to that big story,。
you know, from creation to redemption。
to all the way to new heaven and new earth.。
We are just a little story.。
Be part of that big story.。
Partake Jesus, and we're going to enjoy。
the eternal relationship with our Father.。
Let us all pray together and prepare ourselves。
as we take the communion.。
All right.。
Father, we thank you for the death of your Son,。
for His sacrifice, for what He has done on the cross.。
Yes, because of His sacrifice,。
because of the Passover lamb,。
that we have the eternal life.。
And let us hear your word again.。
I am the bread of life.。
We will not go hungry eternally because we partake in you,。
because we believe in you.。
And thank you for your sacrifice.。
Thank you for your grace that we can become your children.。
As we take the bread and take the cup,。
remind us our relationship with you.。
Remind us your so great of a salvation,。
the eternal life that we have.。
And help us orient ourselves toward you。
so that we are not too concerned about our daily bread,。
but we are more concerned about your kingdom,。
our relationship with you.。
In Christ's name, pray.。
All right, if you're ready, you can go back, I guess, right?。
