All right, today we will start a new series.。
Last weekend I was not with you.。
I know Pastor Sam Johnson was here。
and I really appreciate for his World Ministry Award。
and I was in Minnesota for the weekend。
and from Friday to Sunday, yes, Friday to Sunday,。
I was speaking in the church retreat over there。
and as always, sometimes I go to different churches。
and get to know some of the people。
and sisters and brothers in Christ。
and learn about their stories。
and I was encouraged by their experiences。
and one of the couples who host me。
and pick me up from the airport。
and drive me to the retreat center。
which is two and a half hours away。
from the airport from Minneapolis。
and they are such an inspiration, you know,。
just retire and they have been working as expats。
in China, in Hong Kong, in Singapore。
and very successful people and very resourceful people。
and they have been working tirelessly for the gospel,。
preaching the gospel, you know,。
shepherding the church, helping out with ministries。
and they just settled down in Minnesota。
for less than a year and they are working。
and they are one of those faithful people。
who continue to inspire you, you know,。
in the small church and they continue to serve faithfully。
and use their resources to advance the ministry there.。
So I was really, really touched by this couple。
and of course, by many other brothers and sisters.。
This church is without a pastor for some time。
and as you can understand, all the elders。
and all the lay leaders have to just contribute。
a little bit more, you know, stretch themselves。
and serve in the church and some of the brothers。
because they're without a pastor,。
so they have to preach.。
They have to learn how to preach.。
So that's pretty tough for them。
but I'm so inspired by the ministry.。
Can you imagine, you know, there's no pastor,。
there's no one preparing the message for Sunday service。
and you have to take turn, right?。
And you have to take turn next time you're gonna preach,。
next time you're gonna preach, right?。
It's pretty tough but, you know,。
I'm really inspired by their faithfulness。
and that's what got me thinking about。
this next series of messages。
and what should I preach on.。
You know, during the retreat, I have been thinking a lot。
and praying a lot about what should be the sermon series。
from this Sunday onward,。
at least for the next six, seven Sundays。
and I've been thinking about, okay, New Testament letters,。
maybe Old Testament, maybe the Book of Daniel。
because I've been working on the Book of Daniel。
for quite a long time because in November,。
I'm going to another church to preach in Toronto.。
So I've been working on the Book of Daniel.。
So, you know,。
checking this passage and that passage。
but, you know, in my prayer, in my desire,。
I come to this point that I want to。
focus on one topic for all of us,。
one topic for all of us,。
is that what Christ thinks of the church, right?。
Now, we come to church, of course,。
we carry our own opinions and preferences。
about the church, right?。
Or what is my role in the church, right?。
Maybe I see myself as such a, you know, just attendee,。
one of the attendees, right?。
I'm not part of this, right?。
I don't want to get involved or something like that.。
What is my role in the church, right?。
You can ask, you know, each and every one of us。
and we will give you different answers, right?。
But, you know, ultimately, what matters most。
is not how you and I see the church, right?。
What matters most is what Christ thinks of our church, right?。
He is the head of our church, right?。
He is the leader.。
It's not so much about what the passage says,。
it's not so much of the core team member。
that the lay leader said,。
it's not so much of what you say。
or how you see the church.。
And your role in the church。
is also depends on this question,。
what Christ thinks of your role in the church.。
And this series takes us to the last book。
of the New Testament, of the entire Bible.。
You know, the Old Testament have 39 books, right?。
Old Testament, 39 books.。
And the New Testament has 27 books, right?。
It's a collection of 27 books and letters.。
The last book of the entire Bible。
is called the Book of Revelation.。
That is the last book of the Bible.。
And this Book of Revelation contains seven letters。
written to seven churches in Asia Minor。
at that time, in the first century.。
Now, as we come to the Book of Revelation,。
I remember when I was so much younger,。
you know, I wanted to know what is going on in the future,。
right?。
Kind of like apocalypse, you know,。
kind of, you know, doomsday scenario.。
What is going on, right?。
And what does the Bible have to say。
about the end of the world, right?。
So I flipped the pages to the Book of Revelation。
and I read some of the passages.。
And I must admit, I could not understand it.。
It's just so strange, right?。
It opens up another, you know,。
another box of mystery.。
And I did not know how to interpret it.。
I did not know how to read it.。
And that is the Book of Revelation, right?。
Now, first of all, when we come to the Book of Revelation,。
please understand that the Book of Revelation。
is not so much about prediction of the future, right?。
It's not weather forecast,。
whether it's gonna rain tomorrow at 3.23 p.m.。
That's not what Revelation is all about.。
That's not what the Book of Revelation is all about.。
What it is about is that it was written。
to a particular situation,。
to a group of Christians at that time.。
And that was the late first century, about A.D. 90s.。
You know, the time of Jesus died and rose again.。
It was about A.D. 30, right?。
About A.D. 30.。
And then the apostles and the early Christians,。
they went from Jerusalem to other parts of the world,。
including Paul himself, right?。
Went to different cities and towns。
and preached the gospel and established churches, right?。
Small churches, small group house churches.。
Now, that was about 30s, 40s, and 50s, right?。
And then we come to the Book of Revelation。
is the end of first century.。
You know, if you calculate the years, the number of years,。
by this time, the end of first century,。
the second generation Christians are。
almost 70 years after the time of Jesus.。
And at that time, particularly at that time,。
the Roman Empire, they were still under the Roman rule,。
right, they have been promoting, you know, emperor worship.。
You know, you can imagine, if you,。
if you have a time machine,。
we can go back to the first century, the late first century.。
If we go to one of the house churches,。
they have the political pressure from the top, right?。
From the emperor, from the Roman Empire.。
They want the churches to worship the emperor, right?。
You can imagine walking to the church。
in the late first century,。
situation is kind of like the church is always。
under the pressure of the government.。
If you join the late first century church。
in the Roman Empire, probably you will find some people,。
they have to sing the national anthem。
before they sing praises to Jesus.。
You see what I'm saying?。
Do you, will you like it?。
If you walk in this church, you have to sing。
the national anthem before you do anything else, right?。
Or you will find the picture of the emperor,。
you know, next to the cross,。
or right at the center of the sanctuary,。
and the cross is put on the side, you know?。
And that was the kind of situation the early Christians,。
the first century Christians were facing.。
They were facing wave and wave of persecution.。
And of course, the pagan people,。
if they don't believe in Christ,。
they were okay with that, right?。
Because emperor was just one more god。
on top of many other gods, right?。
But for churches, it's not okay.。
Because, you know, the gospel,。
the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ。
proclaims that there's only one king in this universe,。
and that is Jesus, who died and rose from the dead, right?。
And for this reason, Christians are often, you know,。
being marginalized and being pressured,。
or being persecuted.。
And John the apostle, you know,。
Jesus had 12 apostles, right?。
And the last one who died should be John the apostle.。
And he wrote the book of Revelation。
under the inspiration of God.。
And he said this,。
right off the bat in chapter one, verse nine.。
It says, "I, John," it should be apostle John, right?。
"Your brother and companion in suffering and kingdom。
"and patient endurance, there are hours in Jesus.。
"I was on the island of Patmos。
"because of the word of God。
"and because of the testimony of Jesus."。
So he was being persecuted,。
and he was exiled to a small island called Patmos。
in the Aegean Sea.。
He said, "On the last day,"。
which means he was worshiping, right?。
On the last day, on Sunday,。
"I was in the spirit, and I heard behind me。
"a loud voice like a trumpet,。
"which said, 'Write on a scroll what you see。
"'and send it to seven churches,。
"'to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamon,。
"'Tirethea, Thyatira,。
"'Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.'"。
So seven cities, there were churches in these seven cities.。
And John's being commanded to write letters。
to each of the seven churches.。
And where are they?。
You see the map.。
You see all of the seven cities and seven churches。
are located in the western part of today's Turkey, right?。
And you can see the island of Patmos, right?。
Can you see that?。
Island of Patmos.。
And John received the revelation,。
which is written in the book of Revelation,。
on this island because he was a political exile,。
and the Romans were going after him.。
And during his suffering, during his isolation。
on the island of Patmos,。
he received the revelation from God.。
And he wrote seven churches,。
wrote seven letters to the seven churches.。
And of course we know seven is a symbolic number, right?。
It's a complete number, right?。
I'm Chinese.。
The symbolic number eight, you know,。
it's very important, right?。
You drive around in the city,。
you see a license plate with 888 on it.。
Most likely it's a Chinese driver, right?。
Chinese owner.。
For the Hebrew culture, or even for the Christian culture,。
seven is the complete number, right?。
Seven is the complete number.。
So that means the seven churches。
represent all the churches, right?。
And the first few chapters of the book of Revelation。
contain letters addressed to the particular。
faith communities and apply to them, right?。
And this letter, we shall see,。
we will read letter after letter,。
and we shall see the format of each letter is similar.。
Christ, first of all, he will introduce himself,。
and then he will give an evaluation of the church,。
saying that I know what is going on in your church.。
And then, thirdly, the letter, which is very short,。
Christ, Jesus, will advise the church。
to change the course of action,。
or keep on doing some of the good works。
they have been doing.。
And then the letter will close with a promise,。
a promise particularly relevant to the local church,。
and advise the audience to listen and to obey the word.。
To obey the message.。
So today, we're going to go through the first letter first.。
Okay?。
The first letter is written to Ephesus,。
to the Christians in Ephesus.。
It says chapter two, verse one.。
"To the angel of the church in Ephesus write,。
'These are the words of him who holds the seven stars。
in his right hand and walks among。
the seven golden lampstands.'"。
So these are all symbols, right?。
Symbolic language.。
And they represent some of the reality, right?。
And Christ introduced himself as someone。
who holds the seven stars in his right hand, right?。
And what does it mean?。
You can try to imagine Christ himself,。
who is king over the entire cosmos,。
and his right hand is holding seven stars, right?。
Now we know, in the late first century,。
if you go to different archeological sites,。
and you find some of the coins mint by the emperor,。
and one of those coins, if you look at it,。
there is the image of the emperor in the center,。
and there are seven stars surrounding him.。
And that emperor is called Domitian.。
And he ruled the Roman Empire and persecuted Christians。
in the late first century.。
So verse one of chapter two says,。
"It is not Domitian, it is not the emperor。
that holds seven stars.。
Christ is the one who holds seven stars.。
Christ is the one who holds the entire cosmos。
in his sovereignty.。
He is someone who is in absolute control."。
And Jesus introduced himself as someone who is walking。
among the seven golden lampstands.。
Now the golden lampstand, called menorah,。
is one of the oldest symbols of Judaism, right?。
You can see the picture on the right.。
When you go down to the Western Wall in Jerusalem,。
you see a huge, life-size golden menorah。
to remember this symbol, right?。
This represents the nation of Israel, the people of Israel.。
And this is applied, now this menorah is applied。
to the people of God in the church.。
Now for the Israelites, or for the Jews,。
menorah reminds them they are being called by God。
to be the light unto the nations, right?。
Israel, or the Jewish people, are being elected by God.。
It's not because they're better.。
They are just like other pagan nations.。
But they are specially elected by God to be the channel,。
to be the instrument of God among the nations.。
And they will be like the menorah.。
They will be the lampstand to shine the true light。
to all the nations around them, right?。
And that was Israel was supposed to be.。
However, here, Christ is saying that the church。
is the true Israel, right?。
The church is the true Israel, composed with believers。
who are Jewish and who are Gentiles.。
So Jews and Gentiles together, they proclaim that Jesus。
is the true Lord, and now they are like the menorah, right?。
They should be used by God to shine the light。
to the nations.。
And Christ introduced himself in such a way,。
and he command the church in Ephesus to do such and such.。
Now remember the format of the letter?。
This is the first letter to the Ephesian Christians, right?。
After introducing himself as someone who holds the seven。
stars and walk among the seven lampstands,。
in verse two, Christ says, "I know your deeds,。
"your hard work, your perseverance.。
"I know you cannot tolerate wicked men,。
"and you have tested them, those who claim to be apostles。
"but are not apostles, and found them to be false.。
"And you have persevered and have endured hardship。
"for my name, and have not grown weary."。
So is it praise or is it condemnation?。
It's not praise, right?。
It's very positive, right?。
So Christ looking at the church in Ephesus,。
and he praises them for their hard work,。
for their good work.。
So the Ephesian Christians are very, very busy。
and hard-working Christians, and they build a ministry.。
They block by block, right?。
Break by break.。
And the Christians in Ephesus have been trying。
to building the body of Christ.。
And by the time John writes the letter of Ephesians,。
by the time John writes this letter,。
the book of Revelation, it was in the late first century,。
right, 1890, and the Ephesian church。
was already 40 years old, right?。
Yeah, the church was already 40-some years old, right?。
Remember I told you last weekend I went to the other church。
in Minnesota.。
They have 40 years of history.。
They have a long history, right?。
Much longer than our church, right?。
Our church is only eight years old, right?。
We are like a little kid, right?。
We are not grown, right?。
They have, right?。
And the church in Ephesus is also a grown church.。
And you see, in this community, there are many, many people。
who are working so hard to build a ministry.。
When we first started Urban Voice, it was hard work.。
It was very hard work.。
Physically difficult because you have to set up。
and you have to do running around.。
And mentally, it was challenging.。
Spiritually, it was challenging.。
Emotionally, it was difficult.。
I really appreciate, eight years ago,。
many of the leaders who started this church with me,。
and I really appreciate their perseverance,。
their hard work, right?。
When we first started this ministry, we wanted to raise,。
we had nothing back then.。
We wanted to raise, well, we calculate some of the numbers,。
right, we punch in some of the numbers,。
this is what we need, right?。
So we had to raise, in order to start this church,。
we had to raise 120K to get us started.。
I remember it was late 2015, and we had zero, we had zero.。
But within six weeks, we raised that amount, right?。
Praise God for the commitment, right?。
And the perseverance, the contribution of the people。
who started the church, right?。
And Christ will get the church in Ephesus.。
Yes, you guys are very, very good, you know, way to go.。
Your perseverance, the hard work, right?。
And I wanna encourage all of you.。
We still need to do all the hard work.。
We still need to work harder to persevere, right?。
Because all we do is the good work,。
we try to hold fast to the gospel,。
we try to preach the gospel, we try to build the church,。
and it's not an easy task, right?。
And there's no quick fix, right?。
All ministries require hard work.。
And you see the Ephesian Christians,。
not only they work hard, but they know the truth, right?。
They know who are the, who the wicked men are, right?。
Some of the apostles, some of the people。
who claim to be apostles, but they are not.。
Indeed, they are not apostles.。
You know, we find some of the early documents。
that we know some of the early churches,。
they're trying to tell which guy is the true apostle。
and which guy is not the true guy, the false apostle, right?。
And some of the criterias they lay out。
for the leadership team is to test whoever come our way。
to preach the gospel and their behaviors.。
And one of the criterias says,。
if the preacher, the itinerary preacher,。
comes to your church and you're gonna host them, right?。
You're gonna host this preacher,。
and if you host him for three days,。
and he ask to be staying longer,。
the document says he is the false apostle,。
because he's trying to take advantage of you.。
And after preaching, if he ask for money,。
he is definitely a fake apostle.。
And we have some of the early documents。
that help the early churches to discern。
who is true apostle and who is false apostle.。
And for the church in Ephesus, they tested them。
and know their doctrines, right?。
They know what they believe in,。
so that's why they can discern what is right。
and what is wrong, what is orthodox and what is cultic,。
what is not orthodox.。
And Christ praises them.。
And this letter continues, after praising them,。
Christ said, "However, I hold this against you.。
"You have forsaken your first love.。
"Remember the height from which you have fallen.。
"Repent and do the things you did at first.。
"If you do not repent, I will come to you。
"and remove your lampstand from its place."。
This is a very stern warning, right?。
Yes, they are hardworking.。
However, there's one thing Christ holds against them。
is that this is a church that has abandoned love, you know?。
Abandoned love for God, abandoned the love for others, right?。
And it says, what kind of love?。
First love, right?。
First love.。
Somewhere in the past, you had that, right?。
First love, talking about love in the past.。
Now, we all have similar experience, right?。
For those of us like me, you know, I have been in Christ,。
I have known Christ and served Christ for many years.。
In my faith journey, there were a time。
I was really touched by the love of God。
and I was motivated and compelled by God's love.。
So I'll do everything out of my experience of God's love。
and I'll do everything out of love, right?。
I want to care about other people, right?。
And not asking for some benefits.。
I want to invite other people to the church.。
I want to invite other people to experience。
the grace of God, all because I have taste。
the love of God, right?。
The redeeming grace of Christ.。
But the church in Ephesus has lost it all.。
How old is this church, remember?。
40 years, right?。
More than 40 years.。
And this is kind of a mature church.。
But Christ says, "I have this against you.。
"You have forsaken the first love."。
You remember there were point in your faith journey。
that you're so compelled by the love of Christ, right?。
Maybe when you were younger, maybe there were。
different period of time in your past journey in faith.。
You were so touched by the love of God。
and you are willing to do everything because Jesus loves you。
because you know that God loves you, right?。
The Christians in Ephesus have forsaken the first love.。
And these are very, very strong words.。
And it doesn't mean that they're being forgetful,。
like you lost a wallet or something.。
You have forsaken your first love.。
These are very strong words.。
It's like intentionally you trash it.。
There's something very valuable,。
but you throw it into the trash can.。
You say, "I don't care anymore."。
Right?。
That kind of action, that kind of attitude。
that they're holding.。
There's no wonder why that Jesus write this letter。
to the church and warns them,。
"Hey, if you do not recover this first love,。
"I will remove you.。
"You are no longer my lamp stand。
"and you cannot shine the light to the nations."。
Jesus continues.。
He says, "Remember the height from which you have fallen。
"and you have to repent。
"and do the things you did at first.。
"If you do not repent, I will come to you。
"and remove your lamp stand from its place."。
These are very, very strong warning words.。
If the church is without love,。
it is no longer a church, right?。
You agree with that?。
If a Christian is no longer motivated by the love of God,。
he is not a follower of Jesus Christ anymore.。
Right?。
You're just going through some motions, right?。
Routine, right?。
Muscle memory.。
Jesus said, "If you do not recover that,。
"you cannot be the lamp stand."。
If we do not recover that, we cannot be God's church.。
I remember some years ago,。
I attended a regional meeting for pastors。
in the network in Chicago.。
There were about 30, 40 pastors and church planters.。
We gathered together in north side of the city.。
We invited a Jewish rabbi to give a testimony.。
He's a very, very old rabbi.。
He believed Jesus is Christ,。
and what we call Messianic Jew.。
He was invited to give a testimony.。
He lived in Skokie, north of us.。
I don't know the real number now,。
the number of Messianic Jews in the Skokie community.。
Back then, I heard it was about 100,。
about 100 Jewish people who professed。
Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah.。
I don't know the real number now,。
but this rabbi, very old and retired,。
and came to faith, came to know Jesus as his Lord,。
and he shared his testimony.。
He lived in Skokie, and he had broken marriages,。
and had not seen his daughter for over 10 years,。
because of broken relationship.。
In his brokenness, in his pain, in his darkness,。
a Christian came along and cared for him,。
and stayed with him.。
It's not imposing the Bible upon him.。
It's not using the Bible to bang on his head.。
This Christian man just came along to this old man,。
and cared for him, and listened to his story,。
and tried to be his friend.。
And that's how this Jewish man came to faith,。
came to know Jesus, all because of love.。
You know, I think the biggest threat in our church。
is indifference, indifference.。
Indifference, the spirit of indifference.。
It says, "I don't care."。
Well, you have Bible study, I don't care, right?。
You have this good work, or that good work,。
you know, I don't care.。
You can share the gospel, and preach the gospel,。
build a ministry, build a youth ministry,。
or whatever happening in the church,。
I just don't care, right?。
I just follow motion, and you know, in and out, right?。
I think this is the biggest threat to our life.。
Not just the church community, but to every one of us,。
our individual spirituality.。
That is the biggest threat, the biggest danger.。
It's not because you're anti-gospel,。
it's not because you're anti-Bible, or anti-God.。
It's just indifference, right?。
And that's what Christ is saying to the Christians。
in Ephesus.。
I hold this against you.。
Yes, you are doing very, very good works,。
but this I against you, because this will destroy you.。
This will take you, remove you from the lamp stand.。
Now, I like the English paraphrase translation。
called Message.。
You heard about it?。
Message by Eugene Peterson.。
Back in the '90s, I was in Regent College, Vancouver,。
and Eugene Peterson was the professor。
of spiritual theology there.。
And he translated the whole Bible,。
and the translation is called paraphrase,。
because it's not a literal translation.。
It's not like, kind of like word for word,。
very close to the original language, like ESV, or NIV.。
But he did his translation with paraphrase.。
It's very loose, but you still get the meaning。
of the phrases and of the language.。
And in Message, Eugene Peterson translate this verse。
as this, and let me read this.。
Christ said to the church,。
"But you walk away from your first love."。
Why?。
What is going on with you anyway?。
Do you have any idea how far you've fallen?。
A Lucifer fall.。
Let's read it again.。
Jesus said, "I have this against you,。
"because you walk away from your first love."。
Why?。
What the heck is going on with you?。
Do you have any idea how far you have fallen?。
Do you have any idea how far,。
what the distance of your fall?。
It's a Lucifer fall, right?。
You know, in the Jewish mind, especially in time of Jesus,。
they had this tradition saying,。
you know, Satan fell from the sky。
to the ground, to the earth, right?。
And that is the biggest distance of one's fall.。
Because of his pride, he was the angel of light,。
but he was being cast down from heaven。
and fell to the earth.。
That was part of the Jewish tradition and their theology.。
And they believe Satan, Lucifer, fell to the earth.。
He fell in such a way.。
And that is the biggest distance of fall。
in history, in the entire cosmos, right?。
No one thought so much as Satan did.。
And Eugene Peterson, I think he got it right.。
In his kind of loose paraphrase,。
"Do you have any idea how far you have fallen。
"if you have forsaken, you have abandoned the first love?"。
It's like the fall of Satan, right?。
It's a huge deal here, right?。
It threatens your whole life, your eternal life,。
your eternal destiny, your position,。
your role in the kingdom of God.。
So Christ says, "Remember the height。
"from which you have fallen,。
"and repent and do the things you did at first."。
Please, sister and brother, I want to urge you today.。
Remember how far we have fallen。
if we have forsaken the first love.。
Remember how the love of God has touched you before, right?。
Perhaps years ago, perhaps some months ago,。
but along the way, you have tasted the real love of God,。
right, but somehow you have fallen, right?。
Right?。
Repent and do the things you did at first, right?。
If you do not repent, Jesus said,。
"I'll come to you and remove you from the lamb stand.。
"You're no longer my people.。
"You're no longer my lamb, my menorah."。
This letter closes with this verse.。
You have this in your favor,。
you hate the practices of liquidation,。
liquid, the Goliathans.。
This group probably is the cultic group。
that infiltrate into the church。
and using the gospel as an excuse for sexual immorality.。
And that's much we know, right?。
Again, they know the truth, right, the Ephesian Christians.。
However, they have fallen from the first love,。
and it has threatened them as a church.。
The last verse, "He who has an ear,。
"let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.。
"To him who overcomes, we cover our first love,。
"repent and do the things we did at first.。
"I will give you," Jesus said,。
"the right to eat from the tree of life,。
"which is in the paradise of God."。
All right?。
You are the menorah, and we are the menorah.。
The church is the menorah.。
But in order for us to play this role,。
to be the light to our neighbors, to the world,。
we need to recover our first love.。
Let me close by asking you,。
when was your first love with God?。
When did that happen, right?。
Maybe you were a student.。
Maybe before you had a family, right?。
Somewhere along the line, you know.。
Where is that first love?。
And Jesus said, "We cover that."。
You know, we cover that.。
We repent and change our course.。
Let's all pray together.。
I want to spend some minute to pray to God,。
to remember the heights from which we have fallen.。
Repent and do the things we did at first.。
Our loving God, how much do we call?。
We call in our past, sometime in the past.。
We were touched by your grace, touched by your love.。
But somehow we have forsaken it.。
Help us to remember, remember that your love is still real.。
Your grace is still glorious.。
Your love is so authentic, and still changes us.。
It still changes us.。
Remind us where we have fallen.。
We come before you to repent.。
Thank you for being our loving God。
and forgiving our sins.。
Forgiving our forgetfulness,。
forgiving our intentional abandonment of your grace.。
Help us to repent.。
And help us to redo the things that we did at first.。
Help us to recover that first love,。
that pure love, that pure motivation.。
Purely compelled by the love of God.。
To serve you, to follow you.。
God, I pray that you have mercy on us.。
Mercy on our church.。
Help us to remember, to repent, and redo.。
And thank you for being our gracious Lord.。
And you are always there, walking among us.。
And know our situation.。
Yes, we come before you.。
We change and we repent.。
Help us to taste your grace and your love once again.。
Anew.。
Renew our spirit,。
so that we can be your faithful followers.。
To continue to serve you,。
continue to love you,。
and to love other people.。
In Christ's name, we pray.。
Well, thank you for worshiping with us.。
I hope to see you next Sunday,。
when we continue to serve God with our first love.。
God bless you.。
