Welcome to the first of this series called Mapping the Bible.。
Now this is a special series I've always wanted to do,。
to use Google Earth, videos, pictures, and different visuals。
to help us travel to the land of the Bible。
so we can appreciate, we can hear the messages of the Bible.。
You can see in my background,。
we are right above in the air of the land of Israel,。
the Bible land.。
Now of course the best ways to go about studying the land。
and how it relates to the messages of the Bible。
is to go to Israel yourself, right?。
To study the land, to walk on the ground,。
to experience yourself.。
If you do that, I can almost guarantee you,。
you will see the Bible in a totally different new way.。
But we are still in the pandemic。
and international travel is such a hassle.。
So we cannot do that easily.。
However, we can use technology like Google Earth。
to help us out.。
Now you may think immediately,。
why do we need to study the land of the Bible?。
Can we just get to know God and read scripture directly?。
Why do we need to travel to the land of Israel, Palestine。
in order to get a better understanding of the word, right?。
Now I believe understanding the Bible,。
our faith has so much in common with traveling.。
Now think about it.。
Every time you open the pages of scripture,。
you turn to the word of God.。
You should recognize there is huge difference。
between our culture and the culture。
of the Old Testament and New Testament, right?。
In fact, the original languages of the Bible,。
even though translated into modern languages。
were in classical Hebrew, not modern Hebrew,。
classical Hebrew, some Aramaic in the Old Testament。
and the New Testament was written in Greek.。
So on top of linguistic language differences,。
our world and the biblical world are quite different。
in terms of cultural values, right?。
Customs and all that.。
We're not saying the Bible was simply a product。
of ancient culture, trapped in the ancient time.。
We're not trying to suggest that,。
but we need to understand when God reveals himself。
through scripture, God communicates in ways。
that are intelligent to the ancient audience。
using their languages, using their metaphors,。
using their images or their cultures.。
So in order for us to get a better understanding。
what scripture says or what scripture may mean to us today,。
we need to take a step back and kind of time travel。
to understand, to learn about how the first audience,。
the ancient Israelites received the messages, right?。
Now, somewhat like traveling to a foreign place,。
a foreign culture, a foreign country,。
different from our own.。
We first need to get some basic understanding。
of that culture, right?。
The history, the geography of that place,。
how those people live in that region and all that.。
We may get those information from a guidebook。
like Lonely Planet or find information off the internet.。
So now think about it.。
Every Bible reading, every time we think about the scripture。
is actually a cross-cultural activity.。
Now let me begin with Psalm 125, verses one and two.。
Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion,。
which cannot be shaken but endures forever.。
As the mountains surround Jerusalem,。
so the Lord surround his people now and forevermore.。
Then the Psalm talks about God granting peace and security。
to those who are committed to the way of God,。
contrasting the wicked whose way will perish.。
But how do we understand the words,。
as the mountains surround Jerusalem?。
Now I am zooming into the Old City of Jerusalem.。
The yellow line you see on the map。
outlines the current Old City wall of Jerusalem.。
The city wall dates back to the Ottoman period.。
South of the Old City is the long, narrow Eastern Hill.。
This is where the Bible refers to as City of David,。
Mount Zion, ancient Jerusalem.。
Now if we are standing on the Eastern Hill,。
on an elevated point on the City of David,。
and take a 360 degree roundabout look,。
you will be able to appreciate Psalm 125.。
So we're looking north now.。
We see the Al-Aqsa Mosque, Temple Mount in front of us.。
Notice the elevation is higher than where we are,。
the City of David.。
Now turn a little bit to the right,。
northeast is Mount of Olives.。
Elevation again is higher.。
Continue to the east, we see the Palestinian village,。
Silwan, on the foothill.。
Now looking south, we see a mountain range.。
This is the southern approach to Jerusalem.。
On top of the hill is the United Nations Headquarters.。
Again, the elevation is higher。
than where we are standing now.。
Below us, there are some archeological remains.。
They date back to the pre-Israelite,。
Canaanite, Jebusite period,。
called the Step Stone Structure.。
Now southwesterly, we see a high hill called Western Hill.。
On top of it is the Catholic Church Domitian Abbey.。
Now continue turning back to where we started,。
we see the Temple Mount again.。
Now you should be able to appreciate。
the mountains surrounding us is hugging Jerusalem.。
It's the City of David, right?。
Being surrounded by higher, elevated mountain range.。
So this psalm attributed to King David,。
but whoever wrote this psalm originally。
has to be someone who is familiar。
with the local physical settings of Jerusalem, right?。
Otherwise, he would not be able。
to write something like that.。
The psalmist is using local geographical terrain features。
to talk about something beyond geography,。
talks about theology, talks about faith, right?。
If we put our trust in God, look around you, right?。
Just like the Lord Yahweh will surround Jerusalem。
and protect Jerusalem,。
just like the mountains are protecting it, right?。
If we put our trust in God, the Lord God will protect us,。
will grant us security, will grant us peace.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
Now continue with our orientation of the land.。
This land of the Bible has many different names and labels.。
Sometimes it is called Israel, sometimes called Palestine,。
and Palestine was a name given by the Roman emperor。
after the defeat of second Jewish revolt。
in the second century AD.。
The Old Testament also has different names and labels。
to describe this land.。
Land of Canaan, the promised land,。
land flowing with milk and honey,。
and many call this land the Holy Land today.。
It is a religious symbol, a religious label.。
And yes, this is a sacred place。
because it is a sacred home of three different。
major monotheistic faiths, Judaism, Islam,。
and Christianity, of course.。
And some still call it Near East or Middle East.。
Why?。
Well, about 200 years ago in the 19th century,。
from the perspective of the European powers,。
this region is, of course, the East, right?。
Now, back then, it was under the control。
of the Ottoman Empire.。
At the end of 19th century,。
the first Sino-Japanese War broke out far away from Europe.。
And then the Ottoman Empire,。
which lasts for about 400 plus years, started to crumble.。
So to the Westerners, to the Western European powers,。
there were two different Eastern problems, right?。
There were two regions in the East。
that have some political struggles.。
One was the Far East.。
The Near One is naturally called Near East.。
Now, then in the 20th century,。
the Western countries recognized that the region。
of Persian Gulf and India was strategic。
to their political interests.。
So people started using terms like Middle East。
to describe Persian Gulf.。
And then as times go by,。
because Palestine is connected to Persian Gulf and beyond,。
the definition of Middle East enlarges。
to include the regions between Persian Gulf。
all the way to the Mediterranean Sea.。
So yes, the land of the Bible has many different names,。
but one thing remains constant.。
It is the geographical dynamics, the geographical feature.。
This is a land connecting three different continents.。
As you can see, Africa, Asia, and Asia Minor in Europe.。
It is the center, the land bridge of the ancient world.。
It's a springboard, right, to go from one region to another.。
It's a place where people are connected,。
a place where people come and go all the time.。
Now, with this geographical perspective,。
I would like to suggest with some biblical geographers。
would say this land is appropriately described。
as the land between.。
It's always the land between,。
people come and go all the time.。
And the best way, the best value of this land。
is not to build an earthly empire, but to communicate,。
to tell the world a message, to broadcast a message.。
A Bible geographer rightly says,。
this land, the best value is to build a podium.。
It is to communicate.。
So if you think about it,。
isn't that why God would choose this land。
to begin his redemptive program?。
Isn't that why God would place his people。
to start his redemptive purpose in this place, right?。
Now let's look at a second passage today, Deuteronomy 11,。
Deuteronomy chapter 11.。
Now the book of Deuteronomy was the sermons。
of the servant of the Lord, Moses.。
When Moses was standing in the east side of River Jordan,。
he was not allowed to enter Canaan,。
but he is called by God to tell the Israelites,。
the next generation, as they go into Canaan,。
they have to pay attention to a few different things.。
Chapter 11, verses eight and following,。
"Observe, obey all the commands I am giving you today,"。
Moses said to the Israelites,。
"so that you may have the strength to go in。
"and take over the land that you are crossing。
"the Jordan to possess."。
Verse 10, "The land you are entering to take over。
"is not like the land of Egypt from which you have come,。
"where you plant your seed in Egypt。
"and irrigated it by foot as in a garden,。
"a vegetable garden."。
Verse 11, "But the land, the land of Canaan,。
"you are crossing the Jordan to take possession of。
"is the land of mountains and valleys。
"that drinks rain from heaven.。
"It is the land the Lord your God cares for.。
"The eyes of the Lord your God are continually on it。
"from the beginning of the year to its end."。
13, "So if you are faithfully obeying the commands。
"I'm giving you today to love the Lord your God,。
"to serve him wholeheartedly,。
"then I will send rain," God says, "on your land.。
"I will send rain on your land in this season,。
"in this right timing.。
"Autumn and spring rains will be sent to you。
"and you may gather in your grain,。
"your harvest, your new wine, and your oil.。
"I will provide grass in the fields。
"for your cattle, for your flock,。
"and you will eat and be satisfied."。
Now think about this passage.。
This passage is full of geographical details.。
Look at the land of Canaan.。
It is totally different from Egypt, right?。
Egypt, the delta, is flat with all the branches of Nile,。
because the Nile will flood annually,。
constantly supplying water to farmer.。
It is not like Egypt.。
Canaan is not like Egypt.。
Nor is it like Mesopotamia,。
where you got two big rivers, Tigris and Euphrates.。
The land of Canaan has no big river.。
The biggest river you can find is the Jordan River, right?。
But it is very small.。
It flows through the dry and thirsty land。
of the wilderness of the Jordan River Valley.。
So there's not much use of it in terms of farming.。
So in order to survive in this land,。
Deuteronomy says you need to understand。
this is different geographically from Egypt,。
where you come from.。
In Canaan, you have to depend on rain from heaven.。
Around the rainy season of October and November,。
rain clouds will move from west to east, all right?。
Rain clouds will bring in water to water the land,。
so you can farm, you can harvest,。
you will have food to eat.。
But when rain is not enough,。
is when rain is not sufficient,。
you get drought and famine.。
So the book of Deuteronomy says。
you have nothing to depend on in the land of Canaan,。
but God who controls the rain,。
the God who sends rains at the right time.。
You got to depend on God, you got to trust in him.。
You do not turn away from the God of heaven,。
to the idols, to other false gods in the land of Canaan,。
be it Baal, the storm god, or any other false god.。
You got to trust in God, you got to focus on him.。
Only Yahweh the Lord you can trust, and he will send rain.。
So you think about it, to survive in this land is difficult.。
It is not an easy land.。
It is never a paradise.。
And God settles his people in this land。
to teach them, to train them.。
The land must wait for God to open the heaven and water.。
The land is a spiritual classroom,。
a spiritual mentor, to train the faith of God's people,。
to teach them, to discipline them,。
to fix their eyes on God the creator alone.。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
- Now, isn't that true for most of our life journey。
as we follow Christ?。
What COVID has taught us is that life is full of crises,。
challenges, temptations, and trials,。
and all those tough situations can happen to us,。
every single one of us, unexpectedly, suddenly.。
We will be hit by a storm, right?。
And faith in the Bible has always been faith。
in the midst of difficulties.。
Never easy.。
But following Christ is like that, right?。
God put us in a spiritual classroom for a good purpose.。
In all these difficulties and all these challenges,。
pandemic included, God has a good purpose.。
It's a life-giving purpose.。
The purpose is to draw us closer and closer to him.。
So when we face difficulty, when we face challenges。
or uncertainties in our futures,。
whether we are going to school, determining our future,。
whether we hit rock bottom in our career,。
remember that God is mentoring us.。
Like living in the land of Canaan,。
we have to depend on him.。
We have to trust in him.。
And knowing that God is always with us,。
God is always trustworthy.。
Let me close by reading Psalm 125 again.。
Psalm 125.。
"Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion,。
"which cannot be shaken, but endures forever.。
"As the mountains surround Jerusalem,。
"so the Lord surround his people,。
"both now and forevermore."。
Let's pray together.。
Father, we give you thanks。
for all the experiences that we have.。
You put us in a spiritual classroom to train our faith,。
to pray to you, to depend on you,。
knowing that you are the faithful God。
who always cares for us.。
Thank you for the lands of Canaan that we experience now.。
No matter what challenges we are facing,。
trials and temptations,。
we pray that we will continue to fix our eyes on you,。
to follow you, to commit our lives to trust in you.。
And pray that you will strengthen our faith.。
And as we do so, we draw closer and closer to you.。
In Christ, we pray.。
Amen.。
