- Well, this is the best time to think about。
the Christmas story and especially the chapters。
that have recorded the details of the birth of Jesus.。
And you will find those chapters。
in the first book of the New Testament,。
which is the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew 1 and 2.。
And also the third book of the New Testament,。
which is Gospel of Luke, chapter 1 and 2.。
And today we're going to focus on the first two chapters。
of the Gospel of Luke.。
And it talks about the prophecy,。
the annunciation of the birth of Jesus。
and his pioneer, John the Baptist,。
and also the detail into the details of the birth of Christ.。
So these two chapters are the so-called Christmas story.。
Now, when we think about the story of Christmas,。
we always think about, you know, it's a kid's story.。
It's a children's story, right?。
Yeah, you can find Luke 1 and 2。
in almost all of the children's Bible.。
And it's for a good reason because it's easy to understand.。
But as we think about this story,。
think about the details here,。
you find that it is not a story for children.。
It is not a story for kids.。
And perhaps this story, Christmas, is too familiar to us,。
but we have to read it more carefully.。
And if we do that,。
we find that the Bible's Christmas story。
has so much hidden meanings。
and so much even political meanings.。
And worse, that Luke, in the first two chapters,。
Luke 1 and 2,。
he used these words to tell the Christmas story.。
And if you are the first readers of the Bible,。
you know, if you hop into a time machine。
and go back to the time of Jesus, the first century,。
if you hear the story, if you hear some of the words,。
you will find that these terms are loaded。
with religious and political meanings.。
And here I give you the summary,。
and the summary will tell you that。
the story is not just for kids to read.。
Here, it says, it used words like Lord, Savior,。
Light, All Peoples, Gospel, Peace, God, or Son of God.。
Now, I highlight those words。
because not only they are used in the Gospel of Luke 1 and 2,。
as you can tell from the first line,。
the Lord is being used, Angel of the Lord,。
the glory of the Lord, Christ the Lord, Christ the Lord.。
And then Savior, unto you is born a Savior.。
And then Simeon, one of the old guys in the story。
in the first two chapters, when he saw the baby Jesus,。
he said he saw salvation, Savior or salvation.。
And then Light, the word Light, what is so important,。
you know, it's used quite a few times。
in the first two chapters,。
Light to those in darkness, in the shadow of death,。
glory, light and glory,。
light to the nations, the Gentiles, glory to Israel.。
All peoples, all the world to be registered.。
Joseph and Mary are forced to be registered to pay taxes.。
Good news for all people.。
And then the salvation is for all peoples on earth.。
And then the word Gospel, we heard so many, so many times。
and we believe in the Gospel, we proclaim the Gospel.。
And it's translated good news or good news of great joy.。
And then peace, peace to guide us in the way of peace, 179.。
And then chapter two, verse 14, peace on earth.。
And of course the term God or son of God。
show up so many times, I don't need to give you examples.。
And what's so special about these terms is that。
these terms are political terms used by Augustus.。
Augustus was the first emperor of the Roman empire.。
You see the statue on the upper left.。
He used a lot of these words to proclaim himself to be king.。
And he proclaimed himself to be Lord and savior,。
the light to the nations,。
the light to all the peoples in the empire.。
He's ruling all the peoples in the Roman empire.。
He became king and it was the Gospel to the nations,。
the good news to the nations.。
And Augustus claimed that his rule will bring upon peace,。
bring to all people the way of peace, pex in Latin.。
And then he claimed himself to be God。
and used the title son of God in the coins。
and in his inscriptions.。
Now, all of these words highlighted。
are often used by the Roman emperor,。
starting from Augustus.。
In other words, if you watch the YouTube or TikTok。
or Netflix in those days,。
all the news channel in those days,。
you will be bombarded by the empire's political propaganda.。
The political propaganda is telling you。
that you need to be convinced that who bring you peace。
and who bring you joy and who bring you the savior。
and the salvation and the light.。
It was Augustus.。
It was the emperor, the Roman emperor.。
And you will be convinced。
if you watch those stories and propaganda,。
you have to put your faith in the Roman emperor。
because Augustus is God manifest.。
Augustus is the son of God.。
He is the bringer of peace.。
Now, if you understand this background,。
you understand this crystal story。
is using those political terms to apply to Jesus,。
apply to the baby born in manger, humble and small.。
You see that the Bible's crystal story。
counters and challenges those claims by Caesar,。
by the Roman emperor.。
It says, no, it was not the Roman king who bring you peace.。
It was not the emperor who bring you joy or security.。
The Roman empire cannot do that.。
The Roman empire ultimately is about domination.。
It's about military conquest, about oppression.。
That's what Roman empire is all about.。
And today, if you read this story,。
Luke is telling you there are many Caesars on earth.。
There are many kings and kingdoms and empires on earth。
are telling us the same gospels.。
Things like you will be satisfied,。
you will have security if you have this or that.。
If you believe in this or that,。
if you have this kind of relationship,。
you have acceptance from your peers,。
you have this world's measure of success。
or your technology and all that stuff.。
The big idea is the gospel.。
This is the gospel from the secular society,。
from today's world.。
Now, it's telling you this story,。
it's telling you this concept。
that if you possess this or that,。
if you own this or that,。
you will be totally secure,。
you will find fulfillment, you will be happy.。
That is the gospel of today.。
And that was the gospel in Luke's day in the first century,。
and Jesus came.。
The Christmas story is telling us。
we have to counter the claims of today's Caesars.。
Only Jesus Christ, the Lord,。
brings us peace, true peace and security.。
If you read Luke one and two as a whole,。
you find that, here's the Chinese version。
if you're interested.。
If you look at chapter one and two of Luke,。
it tells you the entire Christmas story。
in two chapters, two long chapters.。
You find that the flow of the chapter。
or the table of content or the outline of chapter。
is pretty clear.。
After the introduction, there's two annunciations.。
An annunciation means hearing the birth of someone.。
All right?。
The two annunciation, the first annunciation is。
the birth of John the Baptist, right?。
The pioneer of Messiah.。
And then the second annunciation was the birth of Jesus.。
And then after that is the two mothers meeting together,。
chapter 139 to 45.。
The two mothers is John the Baptist's mother, Elizabeth,。
and his husband, Zachariah.。
They were very, very old.。
They were without child,。
but God bring them from shame to honor。
and gave them a child, miracle child, John the Baptist.。
And that's the first mother, Elizabeth.。
And the second mother, of course, is Mary, right?。
Mary was pregnant by the Holy Spirit。
and she was carrying the child, Jesus.。
And then the two mothers met together in 139 to 45.。
John the Baptist was in the womb。
and he was lipping with joy, seeing the Savior's mother.。
Even in the womb, he was looking forward。
to the arrival of the true Savior, Jesus Christ.。
So the two mothers meeting together,。
and then Mary sang the song, the praise song, "Magnifica."。
And that is a very, very famous hymn.。
If you've been to a Catholic church。
or you come from a Catholic tradition,。
"Magnifica" is one of the most significant psalm。
or hymn sung by Mary.。
And then after this first praise song,。
is the birth of John the Baptist.。
So it's recording the details of his birth.。
And then after his birth, and he was named John,。
Zachariah, the father, burst out in praises.。
And that is the second song in the gospel of Luke,。
"Benedictus."。
He's blessing God because of his miracle,。
because of his promise, his faithfulness。
to fulfill the salvation for the people.。
And then chapter two is the birth of Jesus.。
And then after the recording of the birth of Jesus,。
there was song from heaven, from the heavenly angels,。
the angelic army singing the song together.。
And that is one of the most famous Christmas hymns,。
"Gloria in Excelsis," right?。
"Gloria in the highest."。
And then afterward, 222 to 240, Jesus was eight days old.。
And from, according to Jewish custom,。
Joseph and Mary need to bring the child, eight day old,。
to the temple in Jerusalem。
for circumcision.。
So the Lord is now in the temple,。
the true Lord, the true savior,。
although he's only eight years old,。
showing up in the temple.。
And then there were different details.。
They offered the sacrifice, Joseph and Mary.。
And then two elderly people, Simeon and Anna,。
came to meet the baby Jesus.。
And after Simeon saw with his own eyes,。
the eight day old savior,。
he burst out with another song, "Nu Dimittas,"。
which means, "Let me depart,"。
because he has been waiting, waiting, waiting。
for the salvation to come.。
And finally, in the temple court, he saw the savior.。
So he said, "Let me depart,。
"because I can now depart in peace。
"because the Lord is good.。
"The Lord has been faithful."。
And then the chapter end with 12 year old Jesus,。
and he show up in the temple again, 12 year old.。
And he was sitting there discussing the law,。
the law, the law of Moses with the teachers.。
And he was sitting there,。
and that is the posture of rabbi.。
12 year old, he was the rabbi.。
And he was debating and asking questions。
and actually teaching the adults about the Mosaic law,。
about the law and the prophet and the Old Testament.。
That's a pretty amazing chapter, chapter one and two.。
But let's reveal the stories here.。
And in these two chapters, who have met the Lord,。
who have met the savior,。
and experienced the true peace and true salvation?。
Who are these people?。
Now I mentioned here and there,。
you know, the old, right here,。
the old couple, Zachariah and Elizabeth,。
the parents of John the Baptist.。
They were really really old and they were without child,。
but God is, God remembers them。
and grant them a miracle child, John the Baptist,。
and then raise them from shame to honor.。
And then John the Baptist, while in the womb of the mother,。
he met Jesus in Mary's womb,。
and John the Baptist was leaping for joy。
as if I want to come out,。
I want to come out and see the coming of the salvation.。
And then Joseph and Mary,。
Joseph and Mary, the holy family,。
they were powerless as well.。
They were the bottom of the society。
under the Roman empire.。
In the chapter two, the shepherds,。
watching the sheep in the fields of Bethlehem,。
they were also the outskirt of the society.。
And then Simeon, an old man waiting for the peace of God,。
the salvation of God to come to reality.。
And finally he saw it,。
and he saw baby Jesus eight days old,。
and he praises God and sings a song, "Let me depart."。
And then finally there's another widow, Anna.。
So old widow living around the temple court。
to serve God for years and years and decades,。
and waiting to see the fulfillment of the salvation.。
Now in these two chapters,。
those common people,。
not the kings, not the empire,。
not the 1% of the population,。
but socially outcast, socially marginalized people,。
they have met Jesus because Jesus showed up to them.。
Now I want to reflect on the last song.。
And as I said, the last song means。
that Simeon, when he saw the salvation of God,。
and he burst out in praises.。
And here Luke records the story, 2.25.。
Now there was a man in Jerusalem called Simeon,。
who was righteous and devout,。
and he was waiting for the consolation of Israel.。
And the Holy Spirit was upon him.。
It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit。
that he would not die before he had seen the Lord's Christ.。
Moved by the Spirit, he went into temple courts.。
When the parents, Joseph and Mary,。
brought in child Jesus to do for him。
what the custom of the law require,。
which is the offering,。
in 28, Simeon took the baby in his arms。
and praised God, saying,。
"Sovereign Lord, as you have promised,。
"you now dismiss your servant in peace.。
"For my eyes have seen your salvation,。
"which you have prepared in the sight of all people,。
"a light for revelation to the Gentiles,。
"and for glory to your people Israel."。
Now, this guy is an old guy, right?。
And he saw the salvation.。
He's socially marginalized, but he met Jesus.。
Now in the Roman Empire,。
the strong and the rich,。
they enjoy status and privilege.。
No, they got the money, okay?。
They are the Elon Musk, right?。
They can do whatever they want, all right?。
That's how the Roman world works.。
You have the power, you have the arms,。
and then you rule, and you have the privilege.。
You have the salvation, you have the peace.。
But the gospel, the Christmas gospel,。
is counter-empire.。
It's against the empire,。
because it proclaims that the baby born in manger,。
humble and low,。
he instead is the true God.。
He is the Son of God.。
And the true good news is that Jesus is born in Bethlehem,。
one without power.。
Even though he had power, he had all the glory,。
but he lay aside his glory and majesty,。
and come into our midst so that we can meet the true God.。
We can experience the true salvation.。
Now last Friday, I and another minister,。
we went to visit a very, very old lady.。
She was dying.。
So we went to Northwestern Hospital,。
and with all this obstacle we overcome.。
And then we come to the room and saw this old lady.。
And I've known this Christian lady for a long, long time,。
for decades.。
And she has always been faithful,。
and always been supportive of my ministry.。
So I heard about, she was not doing so well.。
And especially the last five days,。
she has not been eating,。
and she has not been drinking for five or so days.。
And she was very, very weak.。
So we came and visited her.。
And it's very interesting,。
whenever we visit someone by the sickbed,。
so often it was like the providence of God.。
And as I told you, she was without food。
and without water for so many days.。
And she was over 80 years old.。
And, but when we visited her, she was very, very alert.。
And it's kind of providence of God, right?。
In those hours, she was kind of, I don't know,。
maybe she sensed that someone's coming to visit her.。
And interestingly, she was able to open her eyes。
and interact with me for a little bit.。
So I talked to her and I said,。
"Oh, I'm Pastor Mark, do you recognize me?"。
And she blinked her eyes and tried to nod.。
And I read Psalm 23.。
I read Psalm 23 with her.。
And I saw her smile.。
I saw her eyes, those weak,。
but radiated with hope and joy.。
Now that short encounter,。
a visit of about maybe 15, 20 minutes,。
talked to her family members and talked to her.。
I realized this is actually what this song is all about.。
Someone who has been waiting for God's salvation.。
Someone who has put her hope and trust。
in the true Son of God.。
And finally, in the visitation,。
she kind of realized that the hope is in God。
and no one can take it away.。
And I see from her eyes, I see from her reaction,。
she was filled with joy and faith.。
And what a moment.。
And I was brought to tears.。
If our lives center on the promise of God,。
God will not fail us.。
Yes, we have to be patient at times,。
patient for the work of God.。
Sometimes we have to wait for days, weeks, months, and years.。
But no one has put the faith in God will fail。
because God has always been faithful to us.。
Now in this season of Christmas,。
I'm sure you are busy, right?。
I'm sure you're very, very busy.。
There are some students here。
and you're probably writing your final papers, right?。
Some of us by the end of the year,。
probably very busy at work。
and with your family business。
and taking care of different people。
and offering hospitality to your family members。
or you're flying somewhere to visit your family.。
People come in and out.。
And Christmas has always been a season of challenge.。
You know, we can say ho, ho, ho all the time, right?。
I don't know if you listen to the radio.。
It's for old guy like me.。
I listen to radio because when I drive,。
I pop in the radio to the station.。
Since Thanksgiving, I've always listening to the same song。
playing in the radio all the time.。
You know what song is that?。
It's the most wonderful time of the year.。
It's always playing in the radio.。
And you know, I must admit, you know,。
is it really the most wonderful time of the year?。
Well, not quite for me.。
I mean, not so bad, but it's not the most wonderful time.。
And I'm sure it's not the most wonderful time。
for many of us.。
It may be the most difficult time for many of us.。
Fill with sadness.。
That's why in Christmas season,。
most of the people commit suicide because they're depressed.。
They're depressed in the impression。
that the whole world is having a good time,。
but not you, right?。
And it gets you really, really depressive.。
This season can be busy, can be very, very tough for you.。
But I want to encourage you today as we close.。
As we read the Christmas story,。
don't forget that you should invite。
the Son of God into your life.。
The low and humble, true Lord and Savior.。
He is the one we can put our trust in.。
And He is the one when we invite Him into our lives。
to walk with us.。
Remember I told you when I visit the patient,。
which Psalm did I read?。
Psalm 23, right?。
Psalm 23, okay?。
You don't need to recite any Psalm in the Bible。
except this one, okay?。
Psalm 23, okay?。
It's applicable in all occasions,。
especially when those people。
who are walking through some tough time.。
Because in Psalm 23, right in the middle,。
it said, "Even though I walk through the shadow of death,。
"the valley of shadow of death,。
"you are with me."。
The shepherd is with you.。
God is with you.。
So as we close, why don't we pray together。
and invite Jesus to come into our lives again,。
to walk with us, no matter what we are experiencing.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, thank you.。
Thank you that you sent your Son。
who laid aside His majesty, His glory。
to come into our midst,。
into our lives, into our hearts.。
So as we close, as we reflect on。
the true story of Christmas,。
we want to open our hearts to invite you in.。
And Lord Jesus, we want to put our trust in you.。
And Lord Jesus, we want to invite you to come to our place.。
And thank you for your grace。
that you don't mind how messy our life is.。
You don't mind how broken we are.。
Yet you came.。
So we invite you to come in to be our Lord and our Savior。
and help us to open our eyes to see。
the true light that brings hope to all people,。
brings hope to us,。
can be a reality to our lives.。
So again, we invite Jesus to come into our lives。
to be a leader, to guide us,。
to walk alongside with us.。
Even though we may experience some tough times。
and challenging times,。
yet we know that you are with us.。
Thank you for being our Lord and our Savior.。
And again, help us to reflect on the true meaning of Jesus,。
to thank you, to give you praise,。
because you love us so much in Christ and pray.。
Well, once again, thank you for coming.。
And next week, as Kelly said, it's going to be 11.。
Yes, all right.。
And thanks again for Patrick and Kelly。
for preparing refreshment for us.。
Please enjoy the refreshment。
and stay for a little bit time of fellowship together.。
Okay, God bless.。
