Alright guys, welcome, and I want you to,。
let's see, connect with your neighbor,。
one of your neighbors, alright?。
I have a question for you, I have a question for you.。
You have to give a quick answer to your neighbor, okay?。
What is the most, think of the most embarrassing moment。
in your life, embarrassing moment in your life, alright?。
Can you talk to your friend about it?。
What is that?。
What happened?。
The most embarrassing, most shameful moment。
that you can think of, alright?。
Can you think of any?。
There has to be an embarrassing moment in your life, right?。
So I want you to think of the most embarrassing moment.。
Most embarrassing moment.。
Now you don't have to go into details,。
but you can just, you know, tell them the basics,。
the basic information.。
Most embarrassing moment.。
(audience chattering)。
Alright, so let's see.。
Let me tell you one of the most embarrassing moments。
I ever had, is that many, many years ago,。
I officiate a funeral for someone who passed away.。
Alright, it's someone's father, alright, someone's father.。
So I officiate the funeral,。
and I actually know the deceased personally.。
So he passed away, and I officiate the funeral,。
and a couple months later,。
I met the daughter of the deceased,。
daughter of the father who passed away.。
And then we were chit-chatting,。
and I asked the daughter, I asked,。
"Hey, how's your father?"。
(laughing)。
And then she replied,。
"Well, you officiate the funeral of my father."。
I was so embarrassed, you know,。
because I officiate a lot of funerals, right?。
'Cause I can't keep track, I can't keep track.。
So that's one of the most embarrassing moments in my life.。
So maybe you find your own moments, right?。
But today's passage is about a shameful moment,。
a moment of embarrassment, a moment of shame, alright?。
So we are going through this series on Chosen,。
and one of the episode, episode five of season one,。
is actually called Wedding Gift, alright?。
Wedding Gift.。
And the story is very simple,。
because it follows chapter two of Gospel of John, alright?。
So Jesus and his disciples were invited to a wedding feast。
at a place called Cana in Galilee.。
It's a little town in Galilee,。
in the northern part of the country.。
So they went, and then the hosting family,。
the Bridegroom family, prepare a big banquet, right?。
And at the end, all the wine has been used up.。
And that means a major disaster,。
or major social shame of, you know, Jesus' day.。
And then Mary, the mother of Jesus,。
comes and asks Jesus to help out, alright?。
And you know the story, Jesus turn water into wine, right?。
And then saving the honor of the family,。
turning shame into honor.。
So that's how the story goes.。
It's a very familiar story,。
and perhaps it's one of the beloved stories from the Gospel,。
one of the miracles that Jesus has done.。
And it talks about Jesus and his disciples。
going into, joining a wedding banquet,。
and let's dive in and see what this story is all about,。
and how does it relate to you and to me.。
John chapter two, verse one.。
"The next day, there was a wedding celebration。
"in the village of Cana in Galilee.。
"And the mother of Jesus was there,。
"and Jesus and the disciples were invited。
"to the celebration, to the wedding feast."。
Now, Jewish weddings in those days, or even in today,。
were very important occasions, right?。
Well, actually, that applies to all culture,。
across the cultures.。
If you've been to a wedding banquet, you dress up, right?。
Hopefully you don't wear flip-flops, right?。
You dress up, and then one of the most important thing。
you bring with you to a wedding feast,。
or a wedding banquet, is what?。
Money, yes, yes.。
You gotta give some money, right?。
You gotta give some gifts.。
As a token of honor to the hosting family.。
And it was a very important social occasion.。
And often in those days, in Jesus' day,。
the whole community and the whole village is being invited.。
And of course, the extended family,。
or friends of extended family, were invited.。
So it's not surprising that Jesus。
and the mother of Jesus, Mary, and his disciples。
were also invited to celebrate.。
So they went to Cana.。
And then, if you go to Israel,。
there's a little town called Kefa Cana.。
Kefa Cana is a small village.。
It's still keeping the name in biblical time.。
It's called Cana, right?。
And there's an ancient church there,。
and some people would go to the church。
and read the story, chapter two of 1 John.。
But in order to understand the magnitude of this story,。
we need to understand the biblical culture.。
In Bible times, culture is often called。
honor and shame culture.。
Honor and shame culture.。
Now, what is this?。
On the right, you see some words like glory,。
honor, good name.。
Now, these are the things that people are striving for.。
These are the things that people are trying to protect。
and to defend.。
Defend your own glory, defend your own good name,。
your own reputation, and that is very important.。
And for many of us who are Asians, who are Chinese,。
we do understand this kind of culture。
because we have this faith culture, right?。
And we wanna save faith all the time, right?。
To people, Caucasian, Caucasian culture,。
or the American culture,。
sometimes they go to,。
we enjoy a meal together.。
At the end of the meal,。
they don't understand there is something called。
fighting to pay the bill.。
We will do our best to pay the bill, right?。
And why is that?。
You know, other cultures would not understand。
what is going on here, right?。
Why do you have to fight for paying the bill, right?。
Because paying the bill in the Asian culture,。
in the Chinese tradition, means honor and faith, right?。
You earn your respect and you save your faith。
by I pay the bill, right?。
So you owe me, right?。
I know a lot of people don't do this these days.。
Yeah, which is, it can be good, right?。
But we are fighting for social honor.。
And that is what this culture is all about.。
It's very, very interesting。
because you are fighting for something。
that is not tangible.。
You cannot touch it, you cannot grab it,。
but it's so real.。
It's honor and shame.。
So honor and shame is kind of like a social credit rating.。
Here, the diagram I show you.。
When you get more likes on your TikTok,。
on your Instagram, on your social media,。
you have more social currency.。
So honor can be thought of as social credit rating.。
If you get more likes, if you get more praises,。
then you get better ratings.。
And you get more currency, social currency,。
in your society, in your group.。
And you are better.。
And what is more important to observe in Biblical culture。
is that social honor is a group thing.。
It's a group thing.。
It's not individualistic value.。
Now, in American culture, in the Western culture,。
or Westernized areas,。
the culture is more individualistic.。
So we talk about honor, good name,。
and reputation is just about me, right?。
Mark Chan has a good reputation.。
And the reputation is pretty much individualistic, personal.。
It's a personal currency.。
People don't care whether my son or my daughter。
has the same reputation, right?。
Because we are very individualized.。
But in Biblical times, in Biblical culture,。
honor and shame is a group thing。
because you don't represent yourself only.。
You represent a group,。
a big group, your family, your extended family,。
your uncles, your aunties,。
your cousins, your niece, your close friends.。
So when you have honor, when you have a good name,。
when you have good reputation,。
your whole tribe will have honor.。
But if you lose it, when you are being shamed,。
your whole family, including yourself,。
will face social stigma.。
Now that's how it goes.。
So you have to understand the magnitude of this story。
in Gospel of John chapter two.。
You have to understand this cultural background.。
What is going on?。
What is the big deal?。
In Jewish culture, banquet is the most important occasion。
you can show off and you can defend the honor。
of your family, of your tribe.。
Some of the families in Jesus' time,。
they would actually invest all of their energy。
and all of their money, all of their resources。
in order to make the banquets look good。
and all the guests are being entertained.。
And of course, wine is indispensable in those days.。
Even today, we go to a banquet.。
We want to open bar.。
Hallelujah, we will have open bar.。
People can drink all they want, right?。
And that's honor, right?。
The hosting family would like to offer。
something like that, right?。
The more you offer, the more lavish your banquet is,。
you know, you get more social currency.。
So some of the families, even small families,。
they would use up or they even take on a loan。
in order to set up a very, very nice and lavish banquet.。
And sometimes the feast can go on for seven days, right?。
Seven days.。
Today, when you go to a wedding banquet,。
it's probably just one evening, right?。
But there is some Asian culture, like Vietnamese culture,。
they still do this, you know?。
They have a whole week of feast and invite all the friends。
and all their related to come to enjoy the meal, right?。
So this is the Jewish culture.。
So in the story, when the wine supply went out,。
it means a social disaster.。
Now I had you in the beginning to think about。
a moment of embarrassment, right?。
Now those moment, I hope, were not disasters, right?。
We're still alive, right?。
So it was not disasters.。
But in those days, if you fail in your wedding banquet,。
it means social disaster.。
And the worst form of social shame will happen to you。
because your name will be smeared for decades to come,。
for decades to come.。
So Mary, the mother of Jesus, came in。
and asked Jesus to help out.。
And ask him, you have to help them.。
You have to help them, not only we solve the issue。
of the lack of wine, but to save the honor of the family,。
to defend the honor of the family.。
It was a very, very bad situation.。
And Mary, as the mother of Jesus,。
and you know Jesus, how old was he?。
He's already over 30 years old, right?。
So as you know, if you're a mother。
or you're a sibling of someone,。
you observe someone for decades,。
and you know this guy is special, right?。
Maybe he could do magic or something like that.。
So mother of Jesus, Mary came,。
and I think she knows that her son is special,。
and he can do something about it.。
How to do it, what to do, she doesn't know.。
But she just trusts that her son, Jesus,。
has the ability to save the family in this situation.。
And Jesus respond by saying,。
this is very interesting reply.。
He said in verse four, "Dear woman, that is not our problem."。
Jesus replied, "My time has not yet come."。
Now, dear woman is actually a very polite way。
of addressing a woman or a mother, all right?。
So there's nothing wrong with that, all right?。
So we don't do that, right?。
I don't call my mom dear woman, what's up, right?。
We don't do that.。
But in those days, you know, it's just a normal title, right?。
But Jesus' reply is interesting。
in that it's being highlighted here.。
"My time has not yet come."。
What does it mean, right?。
"My time has not yet come."。
Now, this phrase, Jesus said, "My time is not here yet."。
"My time has not arrived yet."。
"My time has not yet come."。
Something like that, similar phrases,。
occur many, many times in the Gospel of John.。
And it shows up frequently in the Gospel.。
And Jesus often say, "My time is not here yet."。
And what does he mean?。
He said, "My time, the time of mine, is the hour,。
"is the time that Jesus will display all the glory of God."。
The whole glory of God, he will display,。
he will show the whole glory of God.。
And that is the time he's referring to.。
And here is the, in the early years of his ministry,。
and Jesus, of course, would say,。
"Hey, my time is not here yet.。
"I'm not ready to show all the glory of God at this point."。
Because if Jesus displays the whole glory of God。
in a perfect way, in an immature time,。
people would have misunderstood why Jesus came, right?。
People would be expecting someone who can be their leader,。
right, to solve their political problem,。
or solve their personal problem.。
But that's not why Jesus came, right?。
That's not the real glory of God.。
So it is in this context that Jesus said,。
"My time has not yet come."。
But I think when he said that,。
Jesus already knows what to do in this situation in Cana,。
trying to save the honor, or defend the honor of the family.。
He already knows what to do,。
because he understand the level, or the magnitude,。
of social disaster for the family.。
And that's why the mother said,。
"Hey, whatever Jesus tells you,。
"tells his servant, you do it, okay?"。
So we come to verse six.。
"Standing nearby were six stone water jars。
"used for Jewish ceremonial washing.。
"Each could hold 20 to 30 gallons,。
"and Jesus told the servants, 'Fill the jars with water.'。
"When the jars had been filled, Jesus said,。
"'Now dip some out and take it。
"'to the master of the ceremonies.'。
"So the servants followed his instructions."。
So Jesus knew what to do.。
Now what is going on here is that。
in many of the Jewish households,。
you will find jars like that.。
It's about this size, this high.。
This tall.。
And they're stone jars, and they would hold water.。
Hold water for what?。
Because water is a very, very valuable thing in Israel,。
because they all depend on rainwater.。
So they gotta have a lot of containers。
to contain usable water, right?。
So these jars were commonly used。
by Jewish families in Jesus' day to hold water。
and for purpose of purification.。
Now you understand in Jesus' day,。
Orthodox Jews were cleaning freaks.。
They loved to clean.。
They loved to purify themselves.。
And it's not a matter of hygiene.。
You know, it's not because of germs,。
those that we have to wash our hands.。
It's ritual cleansing that is their most concerned.。
They're most concerned about.。
Ritual purity is a very, very important value,。
because you have to make sure you are ritually pure,。
you're ritually cleansed,。
when you partake important occasions,。
like having a dinner.。
You gotta wash your hands before you're having food.。
Now again, it's not hygiene.。
It's about ritual, right?。
It's a religious thing.。
Or you go to the temple, you go to a synagogue。
to pray or to worship.。
You gotta make sure you are cleansed.。
So they have all sorts of ritual cleansing mechanism。
to make sure that they can stand in the presence of God。
and they will not lose their place.。
So here is the background of the story.。
There are six jars of this stone vessel, right?。
Now why six?。
In the Bible, perfect number is seven, right?。
I know in your culture, it may be eight, right?。
In your license plate, it may be whatever, eight, eight,。
eight, right?。
More eight, better, right?。
The more, the better.。
But in Hebrew culture, the perfect number is seven, right?。
Perfect number is seven.。
So only six jars here and that implies imperfection.。
And what kind of imperfection is trying to imply here?。
In the Gospel of John, it's always trying to tell us。
the traditional value or traditional way of life, Judaism,。
the Jewish way of life is not enough.。
It's not perfect.。
Now in this situation, there is a social disaster, right?。
There's social shame being involved here.。
And you can see six jars of, six stone jars filled with water。
cannot save this family from social shame.。
Cannot turn shame into glory.。
Only when Jesus comes and he can do something about it.。
So Jesus had the servants fill the jars with water。
and then he turned water into the best wine, right?。
Best wine.。
And how did Jesus do that?。
Well, the Bible doesn't say.。
What mechanism did he use, right?。
We don't know because the Bible is not so much interest。
in the mechanism of miracle.。
The Bible is more concerned about the effect of the miracle.。
The effect of the action of Jesus.。
What does it accomplish?。
What did Jesus accomplish through the miracle?。
As you can tell from the story,。
from verses nine and following, as we close this story,。
it says, "When the master of ceremonies tasted the water。
"that is now best wine," indeed, best wine,。
"not knowing where it had come from."。
Though of course the servants knew.。
He called the bridegroom over and he said,。
"Posts always serve the best wine first."。
You know, because the banquet is so long, right?。
So many days.。
So they usually serve the best wine in the beginning.。
And then when people get drunk, right,。
they can't tell whether it's beer or wine。
or bad wine or good wine.。
At the end of the banquet, they cannot tell.。
When everyone has had a lot to drink,。
he brings out the less expensive wine.。
However, you have kept the best wine until now.。
Verse 11, "The miraculous sign at Cana in Galilee。
"was the first time Jesus revealed his glory。
"and his disciples believed in him."。
Now this interesting miracle shows the glory of Jesus.。
Part of his glory, not the full glory of God。
being displayed here, but his miracle。
saves the family from shame, disaster,。
to honor and glory.。
And that is the first miracle recorded by John.。
And the miracle tells what Jesus does。
in the lives of the people.。
And often we find ourselves in situation of embarrassment.。
We find situation of shame.。
But Jesus is able to save us from shame.。
Now you think about it, this story is being recorded。
and being included in the gospel.。
It's very meaningful.。
Because that is what the gospel of Jesus is all about.。
To save us from shame and embarrassment.。
Save us from shame into glory.。
Now let me close by reminding you。
what the gospel is all about.。
If you read the Bible from the first page,。
almost to the end, read the whole Bible through and through,。
you will see a lot of examples,。
a lot of lives of people that have been saved by God,。
saved from shame to glory.。
Let me give you some examples.。
Adam, the first man, when he sinned against God,。
when he rebelled against God,。
he was hiding from God, right?。
And he discovered that he was naked.。
It's a metaphorical way to describe shame, right?。
Guilt.。
And Adam, a sinful Adam, was shame covered, right?。
But God made a garment to cover his shame, his guilt.。
The Israelites in Egypt, they were in a shameful situation.。
They were being enslaved.。
But God saved them by grace out of Egypt, the Exodus.。
And Rahab, you remember the Israelites,。
after 40 years of wandering in the desert,。
and they came into the land of promise,。
and they came to Jericho,。
and they found this woman called Rahab.。
And Rahab was a prostitute,。
and he was doomed to destruction.。
But she turned to Yahweh, the true God,。
and she was saved from shame to honor.。
And Ruth, you know, the great-grandmother of King David,。
she was originally a foreigner, a Moabite,。
someone despised by the Israelites' society。
because they are just foreigner, Moabites.。
She was a widow, so, so shame.。
But she was redeemed, being included。
into genealogy of King David,。
and indeed, the genealogy of Jesus, from shame to honor.。
The Jews who went to exile in the Babylonian period,。
they returned from exile, and God saved them,。
again, from shame to glory.。
Now to the New Testament, Peter, the head of the disciples,。
the leader of the disciples,。
three times he denied Jesus, right?。
He was being shamed, failed, but Jesus came back.。
He rose from the dead,。
and he came to Peter and restored him.。
Even our Lord Jesus, he suffered shame,。
but honored by God's glory.。
Now, as I remind you, Good Friday is approaching.。
Easter is approaching.。
So often when we think of Good Friday,。
Jesus being crucified on the cross,。
we think of something physically painful.。
Of course, it was painful, extremely painful.。
But the cross, crucifixion, is not just about pain.。
It's about shame.。
That's why victims of crucifixion。
is always being crucified, being displayed。
in a public way, right?。
On the street.。
But our Lord Jesus suffered shame,。
but honored by God's glory.。
He died in shame, but he rose in glory。
and seated at the right hand of the Father.。
And that is the essence of the gospel,。
turning our shame into glory.。
And that is only available in Jesus Christ.。
We were sinners, but we are now forgiven。
because of what Jesus has done for us.。
We may have loads of guilt in our life.。
We feel ourself unworthy.。
We question our own self-worth.。
We look in the mirror and we always think。
we are not worthy or we're worth less than other people.。
Right?。
Physically or even our own life.。
We just cannot compare with other people。
and feel kind of shameful.。
But lo and behold, the gospel tells us。
Jesus raised us with Jesus.。
Jesus raised us from death, from shame.。
And we stand totally righteous before God.。
And that is the gospel.。
We may feel unworthy.。
We may feel sin-loaded.。
But Jesus came to forgive all of our sins.。
And that is the freedom of the gospel.。
Right?。
Praise God.。
Let's all pray together.。
And come before God.。
Yeah, we know we have been shamed.。
And sometimes we shame ourselves.。
Right?。
We feel unworthy.。
Yet, at the foot of the cross,。
we are accepted, redeemed, and totally forgiven.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we want to give you thanks.。
For Jesus, your son, has died on the cross。
to pay the price。
in forgiving all of our sins.。
Father, thank you.。
Thank you for saving us from sin, from guilt,。
from shame, from unworthiness.。
And now we are your glorious sons and daughters。
standing righteous before you.。
Only because Jesus has paid the price,。
paid for our debt,。
and suffered our shame.。
You turn us from shame to glory,。
from dust to glory.。
And thank you for your love.。
May our lives be encouraged and transformed。
by your gospel,。
by what Jesus has done for us on the cross.。
And thank you.。
In Christ's name, we pray.。
All right, thank God for seeing all of you.。
And next week, we're gonna worship together.。
And I know there's some freshmen out there, right?。
Yeah.。
And enjoy our time of worship, fellowship together.。
All right, God bless.。
