Good morning brothers and sisters。
Shalom to all of you who are joining this worship through online urban voice members and all the other brothers and sisters in the world。
Yeah, peace to you. God cares for us. He knows us and he is with us today。
I'm gonna share God's Word from the book of Acts chapter 1 verse 12 to 14 and verse chapter 2 verse 1 to 4。
two short passages。
So please prepare your Bible again the book of Acts chapter 1 verse 12 to 14 and chapter 2 verse 1 to 4。
If you can read the passage with me together。
Then they returned to Jerusalem。
From from the hill called the Mount of Olives a Sabbath days walk from the city。
When they arrived they went upstairs to the room where they were staying those present were Peter John James。
Andrew Philip and Thomas Bethlehem you and Matthew James son of Alpheus and。
Simon the Zillah and Judas son of James。
They all joined together。
Constantly in prayer along with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus and with it with his brothers。
second passage。
chapter 2 verse 1 to 4。
When the day of Pentecost came they were all together in one place。
Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting。
They saw what seemed to be tongues of the tongues of fire。
That separated and came to rest upon each of them。
All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them。
Amen, this is the Word of God。
Thanks be to God。
Let me pray briefly。
Father God speak to us Lord. We need you Holy Spirit。
More than anything else what we now need is you Lord。
Convict our hearts do your mighty work upon our hearts. We are waiting for you。
Speak to us in Jesus name we pray。
Amen。
My dear brothers and sisters the title of today's message is。
pray。
Extraordinarily to be filled with a Holy Spirit one more time. The title is the title is pray。
Extraordinarily to be filled with the Holy Spirit。
Let me ask you this question。
What is the most extraordinary experience for you in your whole lifetime?。
As some of you may know my story the most extraordinary experience for me is that。
God gave me my wedding date when I was praying and also my wife's name when I was sleeping even。
Before I met her I didn't meet her yet。
So it was very extraordinary experience for me。
today's story in the book of Acts chapter 1 and 2 also talks about a。
Super extraordinary story that we cannot expect in our daily life easily。
It can happen but it's very extra ordinary。
today's story happened on the day called Pentecost or。
Woosungje in Mandarin meaning 50th day. It was the 50th day。
after the first day of the Passover festival。
the Jews in Jesus with Jesus days were。
Celebrating the day Pentecost is the day of celebrating their harvest and bringing God their first fruits。
So on Pentecost one of the top three most important Jewish festivals all the Jews who were。
Scattered around the whole world whole nations for centuries. They came to Jerusalem and they celebrated this festival together。
At the same time before this day of Pentecost as you can see on the screen you'll see a map。
Yes。
Jesus died on the cross and rose on the Sunday。
where when counting 50 days began。
Then Jesus for the following 40 days。
Jesus spent with his disciples and his where he went back to the heaven on the Mount of Olives。
Which lies just about a one kilometer away from Jerusalem。
Then Jesus 11 disciples。
Because Judas is carried out who had had a sold Jesus killed himself those 11 disciples and others。
Around 120 people in total they gathered at a place and they had even praying together。
Constantly for 10 days as in verse 14。
Okay。
So that was the 50th day after Jesus rose again。
Then the most extraordinary day for the disciples began in today's passage。
Actually these three things happen to them。
What is that number one a sound like the blowing of a violent wind?。
Came from heaven and filled the whole house。
Second thing they saw what seems to be the tongues of fire that separated and came to rest upon。
It's one of them Wow and the third thing all of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in。
Other tongues actually in other languages as the Spirit enabled them。
But think about this。
Before the Holy Spirit came upon them who were the yes look at the screen that that's what happened to them。
Before the Holy Spirit came upon them who were the disciples?。
How were the disciples number one when Jesus went back to the heaven?。
They were very much afraid the Jewish religious leaders. They had killed Jesus at the same time。
They were still hating Jesus disciples. So they were afraid of losing their lives。
Number two, who are they? They had been following Jesus for more than three years and their teacher Jesus died。
Rose from death and went back to the heaven and that they didn't know what to do. They were at a loss。
They didn't know what to do number three。
They didn't have any power or wisdom to do a new thing in this situation。
In short, they were fearful not knowing what to do and powerless powerless。
Then。
Today after receiving the Holy Spirit into this passage, how did the disciples change?。
What does the change number one?。
They became so courageous and bold and they began to preach the goodness of Jesus even to the Jewish religious leaders。
Whom they were fearing。
number two the Holy Spirit。
Started the Christian Church on us on earth and the disciples were joining the most important work in human history。
In other words, they knew what they were doing。
Wow in the third change the disciples became also very wise and powerful。
Later when they opened their mouth and preached all the religious leaders and Jewish Jewish people。
They were surprised to see their wisdom and ability。
When the Holy Spirit comes upon a person what happens。
Yes a new heart driving away our fear and sadness and a new mind filled with wisdom and。
Good insight and a new life working with confidence。
Meaning direction and power. This is why Jesus says in Luke's gospel chapter 11 verses 13。
When you look at the screen, you can read it together。
If you then though you are evil know how to give good gifts to your children。
How much more will your father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?。
You know brothers and sisters the best gift you can ever get from God。
The best gift your God can ever give you is the Holy Spirit。
Please remember this。
then。
How do we receive the Holy Spirit if he received this greatest and most powerful gift in our lives?。
You know what when we receive it most of the problems we have will be truly solved。
then。
How do we receive the gift of the Holy Spirit?。
the answer is。
Surprisingly simple why in today's space Caesar? What did they do?。
prayer prayer。
Prayer when Jesus talked about the Holy Spirit as the best gift God can ever give us。
Jesus was explaining how to pray in Luke's gospel chapter 11。
Okay, he was explaining about prayer life in this chapter。
Jesus tells a parable a story in the story。
There was a guy who had a friend visiting him from a far place。
But he didn't have anything to feed his friend at midnight。
so this guy he went over to one of his neighbor's house at。
Midnight and then bang bang bang. He pounded on the door of his neighbor's house。
I'm sorry. I have a friend visiting me now, but I don't have anything to give him。
please give me three loaves of bread and。
Jesus says。
The neighbor cannot give the bread because this guy is his friend。
but he gives the bread to this guy because of his。
Boldness, did you hear me because of his boldness?。
How did the man receive the bread? Yes, remember these two words?。
absolute。
desperateness absolute desperateness and。
complete wholeheartedness。
Complete whole heartedness. He went over to his neighbor's house and midnight and banged on the door and cried out to his neighbor。
Give me some bread。
Give me some bread。
My dear brothers and sisters actually this was the same attitude when the 120 people they were praying。
Constantly together for 10 days。
They were praying constantly for their receiving the Holy Spirit because Jesus promised it。
They were praying for it。
120 people praying together for 10 days day and night. That is the key。
How can you receive the Holy Spirit?。
You should show。
absolute desperateness or。
Complete wholeheartedness in your prayer。
Yes。
You need to make an extra ordinary effort in prayer. Have you ever prayed like that?。
Yes, you need to make an extra ordinary。
effort in prayer。
When you hear this part some of you may feel quite confused or just want to reject this teaching。
Because you have heard over and over again。
Our faith is all about grace。
Yes, I know. Yes, we were saved by grace. We live our daily life only by grace。
I know but why should we make any extra ordinary effort in?。
prayer apart from grace and。
This is the place you need to make a clear distinction between the two different notions。
one is in。
Dwelling of the Holy Spirit as you see on the screen in dwelling of the Holy Spirit。
The other one is in filling of the Holy Spirit, right?。
As you know very well the in dwelling of the Holy Spirit started。
When we repented of all of all our sins and accepted Jesus as our Savior and Lord。
The Holy Spirit began to indwell us。
So if you are a true Christian the Holy Spirit actually lives in you now. Yes very well。
However, the in filling of the Holy Spirit is totally different dimension。
Think about this。
Think about this even before the day of Pentecost the disciples and all the other people。
120 people they were already saved and technically Christians。
Because they saw Jesus death and resurrection。
They believed in Jesus and they had been following Jesus。
So I believe that when they confessed their faith in Jesus with their mouth。
The Holy Spirit began to dwell in them。
They already had the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Well, what's the matter?。
Even the Holy Spirit they began to dwell in them。
They were lacking in many ways as I shared in the above like what they were fearful。
They didn't know what to do. They were powerless。
So what they needed was what they needed was at the moment was more of the Holy Spirit。
Not just the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, but in filling of the Holy Spirit and as in today's passage。
After 10 days of labor of prayer。
God literally filled them up with the Holy Spirit。
They were transformed by is this in filling of the Holy Spirit and they became powerful and super effective。
So let me summarize it here。
Indwelling of the Holy Spirit happens when we accept Jesus as our Savior and Lord and the Spirit begins to。
dwell in us。
then。
When does the infilling of the Holy Spirit happen if you are already a Christian what we now need is。
Yes, not the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, but the infilling of the Holy Spirit when we ask him。
When does the Holy Spirit empower us fill fill us up when we ask when we pray?。
Extraordinarily like those people。
My brothers and sisters。
Why do we need to have?。
Extraordinary prayer to receive the Holy Spirit the infilling of the Holy Spirit。
It is because the Holy Spirit is the most。
Extraordinary person. Did you hear me? Why should we pray like that?。
Because he is the most extraordinary person you can ever invite into your heart。
He's already in you, but you are inviting the empowerment。
Like what you cannot invite the president of the United States into your messy dirty and smelly room。
Right just like that。
If you want to invite the US president into a room you need to make proper preparation。
before that。
The Holy Spirit is triune God the Holy Spirit is God。
God is absolutely holy。
Holy meaning totally different from all other creatures。
So inviting the Holy Spirit into our hearts needs our。
proper preparation and the extraordinary prayer is the best way of preparing ourselves for the gift of the。
infilling of the Holy Spirit。
Because of the following three reasons I'm going to talk about three reasons。
Number one. Why should we pray?。
Extraordinarily to receive the Holy Spirit to be empowered to be filled with the Holy Spirit。
First the Holy Spirit will fill your heart when you treat him as。
He is let me repeat the Holy Spirit will fill your heart when you treat him as he is。
Again, the Holy Spirit is God not your servant。
The Holy Spirit is the owner and the Lord of your life not your guest。
If you neglect the Holy Spirit in your heart and life。
The Holy Spirit already knows that if you neglect him, he knows that。
So if you are not ready to accept him as King and Savior and Lord。
He does not want to fill your heart fully and he cannot do any and it's something great。
Showing his presence in you。
In other words you should desire and treat the Holy Spirit as a。
Number one person in your heart in your life. If not, the Holy Spirit cannot do anything。
Okay, do you know this? Have you thought about this?。
Have you ever used to the search engine Google?。
Alright, when you when you look at the screen Google search engine, how many times do you use a day?。
Here now I have Kelly. How many times do you look at look into Google a day?。
Uncountably。
Uncountably because Google is a number one search engine in America。
But my brothers and sisters have you ever used to talk to go?。
What is that doctor go doctor go is one of the most used?。
Search engine in America number one Google number two being number three. Yeah。
Who number four doctor go but you never heard about the name doctor go because it is number four。
Number one and number four it has a whole whole a lot difference。
You never heard about it and you do not use it。
The same thing is happening in your spiritual life。
If you do not regard if you treat God as the number one person in your life。
You never heard about it. You didn't you never know him. You have nothing to do with him。
That's what is happening in your life。
so。
Until you make the Holy Spirit the number one person in your life. God cannot do anything。
So through your extra ordinary prayer。
you need to remove all the other idols and you love that you love more than God and。
Prepare your heart for the coming for the infilling of the Holy Spirit。
Second reason why should he pray extra ordinarily to receive the Holy Spirit?。
The Holy Spirit cannot fill your heart when it is too dirty or just a dirty when it is dirty。
The Holy Spirit cannot fill you up。
because God is。
incomparably holier than us。
Do you like the dirty smell?。
Till like the dirty odor we cannot endure it the dirty smell just like that。
God cannot endure our dirty sins. That is why in check at in the book of Acts。
Chapter 2 when people asked Peter, what shall we do Peter replied?。
Repent and be baptized and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit。
Receiving the Holy Spirit and the infilling of the Holy Spirit is closely related to。
repentance。
Repentance does not mean mean just the easy your lips or words on your lips。
True true repentance should bring the true。
changes in your life。
If you have repented you should try not to commit the same sins again。
If you commit the same sin easily。
There is the reason God cannot enter your life。
Powerfully the Holy Spirit is not working in your life powerfully because you are repeating the same sins。
Again, and again so easily not honoring God and not fearing God。
My story。
before 2006。
Even though I love the Lord。
I was doing a lot of ministry in the church as a lay person and I was but I was easily。
Repeating the same sins. I didn't fear God and I was enjoying some sins in my life。
I was enjoying some sins, but to but from 2007。
2007 in my desperate prayer in my extraordinary prayer。
I began to hate my sinning and I began to fear God as if he were right beside me。
When I began to deal with my sins seriously like this。
Through prayer, you know what God gave me a new level of freedom and joy。
Through the extraordinary prayer God gave me a new level of freedom and joy。
That extraordinary prayer freed me from my habitual sins and I was literally I was literally。
filled with a Holy Spirit。
Last the third reason why should we pray?。
Extraordinarily to receive the Holy Spirit。
because。
You can expect to be filled with the Spirit when you are literally again filled with him in your 24/7。
Do you get it?。
You can expect to be filled with the Holy Spirit when you are literally filled with him。
24/7 my brothers and sisters。
Becoming a Christian is done when we confess our faith with our mouth believing in our hearts。
Believing living as a Christian is another dimension。
It requires our ongoing true commitment in our hearts in all of our actions。
In all of our actions in other words to live as true Christians。
You need to be trained in your life a lot of training like what how to think how to speak to others。
how to work how to spend your time how to spend your money and how to how to。
Fight against your old self. Our old self is the one which is really hard to kill and then how to spend how to。
resist the evil spirits。
temptations。
Actually, there are so many areas for which you need to train yourself and then it does not happen。
Automatically you need to spend your best quality time。
How can you grow you spend your best quality time to grow yourself in faith and in godly?。
Lifestyle it requires your new heart and your new lifestyle。
So Timothy first Timothy chapter 4 second half of verse 7 says it says。
Train yourself to be godly。
Train yourself to be godly training。
However at the same time we all know that training ourselves in godliness is very hard。
This is not just a problem of spiritual matters。
Even think about this even taking of your body taking care of your body or。
Building a new set of a good habit is very difficult。
Just like now at the beginning of every year。
Sometimes you make very good plans very good goals。
But you know just a few days later or at most a few weeks later。
Many of us find ourselves not doing the good plan anymore。
So building a spiritually healthy habit is actually much harder than this physical habits。
Why is it so difficult。
in the same verse first Timothy chapter 4 first half of verse 7 says。
Have nothing to do with godless myth and old wives tales. Let me repeat one more time。
Have nothing to do with godless myth and old wives tales。
What is that?。
Apostle Paul already two thousand two thousand years ago。
He clearly realized the true main reason why people were not growing spiritually。
Why?。
Because they were spending all their time in listening to godless myth and old wives tales。
Greek myth the godless myth Greek myth were great stories and many even many。
Greek myths were made into films even in our days。
So like what so Greek myths were like today's blockbuster film. Do you like blockbuster film?。
I did or like great movies and how about old wives tales old wives tales were。
superstition。
superstition or。
Woman-centered stories which old woman told young women or children。
Repeatedly again and again. So like what like today's soap opera or。
dramas。
So my brothers and sisters, it's not a problem of our own own generation。
2,000 years ago when there is no TV or internet or cell phone。
People were already obsessed with the stories and they couldn't grow in their spiritual life。
Two forces are fighting right the story of the world and the story of God and。
How much more than how much more difficult is it?。
Is it to live a truly spirit filled life in our own generation? Why?。
Today people are constantly。
Literally 24/7 connected to all kinds of media。
So God knows this。
The Bible commends us to be spirit filled。
Being filled with God's words God's thoughts God's minds and God's desire for our life。
However, most of us are actually filled with the spirit of the world, especially through media。
Many of us are quite seriously addicted to all kinds of media and the small gods small gods of the world are。
Controlling you through media most of the time you need to know this。
The small gods of the world are controlling you through media most of the time。
That's why you feel quite empty in your heart empty and your life is disorderly。
You are busy with those media fidgeting all the time, but you feel that your life does not have any focus or。
direction。
Because you are filled with the spirit of the world day and night。
my。
Dear brothers and sisters。
This is why we need to pray。
Extraordinarily to get out of this addiction addiction to the world and addiction to the spirit of this world。
If you pursue them like now if you are not freed from the spirit of the world。
They will control you and drive you and they will drive you to meaningless and meaningless。
Moments and moments and your spirit and life will never grow. The problem is that you cannot grow。
Your relationship and your family life will not grow mature。
At the same time, you know this God has a special plan for each one of us。
But if you are addicted to the spirit of the world God cannot use you for his purpose。
Without being filled with the Holy Spirit God cannot use。
individuals or even a church。
We are all God's people whether it's an individual or a church. We need to be filled with a Holy Spirit。
My brothers and sisters, let me close。
In the beginning of every year。
When you are wondering how to bring true meaningful good changes in your life or how to be empowered。
To continuously practice those important necessary changes in your life。
Growing in prayer is the greatest solution。
When you pray extraordinarily as those。
120 people in today's passage。
God will fill you up with his spirit。
You know what and your life and your heart will surely experience the greatest change and the power。
That you cannot get through any other way。
Being filled with the Holy Spirit is the true cure for all our inner。
Brokenness, we are all broken and sick people and then all our sins and all our broken relationship。
Being filled with the Holy Spirit. That is the true cure。
So brothers and sisters make the Holy Spirit the number one person in your heart and in your desire。
the number one person。
Just like a Google and repent of all your sins thoroughly。
Until you truly until you feel truly clean in your conscience and free from your habitual sins。
You need to pray until you are freed from your habitual sins. And lastly。
Set aside good chunk of time and invest in prayer until you feel until you feel you are。
Obsessed you're obsessed with spending time with God. God. I want to spend time with you. I want to pray。
I want to read the Bible until you are obsessed with a holy desire。
Then with any other media in your daily life。
God bless you。
so brothers and sisters。
Take the proper posture。
Now we are gonna sing the response song。
God spoke to you through my message and this is the time you are speaking to God。
God this is my heart。
God this is my desire。
Please empower me. So we are gonna sing the song。
Lord, I need you as the song sings。
Please have the desire in your heart Lord. I need you more than anything else。
Grow my prayer life. Let's sing together。
Lord I come I。
Confess。
Bowing here I find my rest。
Without you I fall apart。
You're the one。
Take guys my one more time. Lord, I come Lord I come。
I confess。
Bowing here I find the red without you。
Without you I fall apart。
You're the one take guys my heart。
Lord I need you. Oh I need。
Every hour I。
My one defense my righteousness。
There's。
Your grace is more。
Where this is fun。
Is where you are?。
And where you are。
Lord I am free。
The holiness。
Is Christ in me。
Lord I need you。
Every hour I。
Do。
My one。
defense my。
Righteousness Oh God。
Hawaii me one more time Lord. I need you。
Lord I need you。
Every hour I。
Sing it out my one。
Defense my righteousness. Oh God, how I need。
So teach my songs to you rise to you。
Temptation comes my way。
When I cannot stand I fall on you。
Jesus you're my hope。
They so teach my songs to rise to you。
When temptation comes my way。
When I cannot stand I fall on you。
Jesus you're my hope and stay。
Lord I need you。
Oh。
Every hour I。
My one。
Defense my。
Righteousness Oh God, how I need one more time with all our hearts。
Lord I need you。
I need。
Every hour I。
My one。
Defense my。
Righteousness Oh God, how I need。
All or that is you would I need。
I need。
a。
Three hour I need。
My one defense I will。
Defense my。
Righteousness Oh God。
My one defense my。
Defense my righteousness Oh God。
Oh God, how I need you。
Brothers and sisters, let's pray together。
When you pray take a right posture, you can kneel down on your floor。
Please lower your lower your posture。
We are standing in front of the greatest King。
Who knows our hearts and desires and our life?。
Who understands the darkest problems in our hearts who understand the most serious problems in our life?。
So my brothers and sisters, let's pray together。
The prayer music is their prayer music。
Okay, let's pray in your heart first prayer as I shared this word brothers and sisters。
The reason God cannot empower us the reason we cannot be filled with the Holy Spirit is that we are。
Neglecting we do not honor him in many ways. There are so many other idols。
We are addicted by all kinds of media. You cannot spend the true quality time with God。
And then our heart is filled with all kinds of dirty things。
If we are not holy enough。
God cannot intervene in our lives. If you do not welcome him the Holy Spirit cannot。
Intervene in your life. So my dear brothers and sisters now, let's pray with the right attitude and posture。
God come into my heart。
Remove all the dark and dirty sins and remove all the idols inside my heart。
Let's have this prayer of repentance together about our idols。
About our addictions to media and our dirty sins. Let's have this time of repentance。
Our heavenly Father have mercy on us Lord. We are broken people。
We are broken people Lord. Even we cannot keep our the best promises to you. Father God。
We are all broken people Lord and we do not have any vision in our eyes Lord。
Our life and our time is so disorderly Lord. We do not know how to honor you Lord。
We do not know how to love you Lord. Your eyes are all the time watching over us Lord。
But we are forgetting you in our lives Lord. So God would you do a new thing upon us Lord?。
Have mercy on us Lord. In this year Lord。
Oh Father God do a new thing in all of us Lord. All of the brothers and sisters in our life。
What we now need is your spirit Lord. Holy Spirit。
We need you Lord. We need you. Come to your people Lord.。
Come to your people and do a new thing in their lives Lord。
And my brothers and sisters。
Even for the most important thing。
Even for the really great things if you do not plan it。
If you do not make a good。
very clean plan about it。
You cannot do it。
So after this worship。
The Holy Spirit wants to bring the change into our lives. In other words。
He wants to lead you to the extraordinary prayer life。
So my brothers and sisters now when you pray make a decision in your heart。
God I want to pray more than ever before。
