Hey family, it's good to be with you again.。
I hope that you are well and that you're safe and that you're experiencing God's presence。
and His goodness at this time.。
I know I say that every week, but I mean it.。
I pray those things for you, that God will protect you, keep you healthy and safe, and。
also just keep you encouraged and keep you in His peace and in His comfort and in His。
joy.。
Today, we're continuing on with this study we've been doing, looking at kingdom values。
that Jesus taught us in the Beatitudes, which is a part of the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew。
5.。
And specifically, we're looking at verse 4 today, Matthew 5, verse 4, and it says this,。
"Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted."。
Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.。
Now this verse has a lot of really deep meaning for us and deep meaning for what it means。
to be a follower of Jesus, a disciple, for what it means to have a right relationship。
to God.。
And in a really deep way, it tells us a lot about what it means to have a right relationship。
to the people around us and to the world around us.。
We're going to get into some of those things today.。
But to start, I want us to just think about what it means.。
What does it mean when it says that blessed are those who mourn and that they will experience。
comfort?。
What do those words mean?。
Well, the word for mourning in the original language is a lot like what you might think.。
It's a word that communicates grief or lament.。
And so it's communicating a sense of sadness or grief, but it's a very strong word.。
It's communicating a strong sense of sadness or grief.。
It was a word that was used often when someone had died and people were mourning and really。
grieving deeply over that loss.。
And the word for comfort in the original language communicates a sense of receiving encouragement。
or consolation or strength being strengthened.。
And so again, it means kind of what we might think.。
It means receiving some comfort, some care, some encouragement, some consolation.。
That's what it's referring to.。
But this verse is more than just the words.。
It's the ideas that are in this verse that are really significant for us.。
So we're going to start out just talking about a few of the things that it doesn't mean,。
a few of the things that we might assume about this verse initially that aren't necessarily。
what this verse is talking about.。
And first of all, it doesn't mean that we're supposed to be unhappy or kind of sad people。
as Christians.。
That's not what this verse is communicating.。
It's not saying that it's a kingdom value for the followers of Jesus just to be sad。
all the time or to be in despair all the time.。
That's not who we're supposed to be.。
And we know from other parts of the Bible, it's clear the Bible talks about the fact。
that we have the joy of the Lord as our strength, that we're supposed to be rejoicing in what。
God has done for us.。
We're supposed to be joyful people.。
And this verse reminds us that that joy that we have as believers in Christ is not a fake。
joy.。
It's not a false joy.。
It's not the type of pretentious thing we put on where we pretend to be happy when we're。
not or where we're kind of out of touch with reality and when there's tragedy or hurt going。
on around us, we're just kind of got our head in the clouds and we don't even care and we're。
like, "Oh, I'm still great.。
Everything's fine," even when things are not fine.。
We're not supposed to be like that as believers, but we can and should have joy that is beyond。
our circumstances because it's resting in our security in God, not in our circumstances。
themselves.。
We can have joy beyond the things we experience.。
And we've talked about that some in the past.。
But even though we know that the Bible communicates that we're supposed to be joyful people, still。
this verse tells us that it's a kingdom value to mourn and to experience God's comfort.。
So what does it mean when it says that we should mourn?。
And again, this is not just talking about simply grieving or being sad over loss or。
tragedy.。
I think sometimes that's one of the things we assume about this verse.。
When we just look at it initially, we think, "Well, it's just saying that when we go through。
loss or tragedy and we mourn and we're sad and we're grieving, that God cares and He。
comforts us and He takes care of us."。
And that is completely true.。
The Bible makes that clear in so many other places, but I don't think that's what this。
verse specifically is talking about.。
But I want to stop there for a second and be real clear about that.。
God does care about our grief.。
God cares about the pain in our lives.。
God does want to comfort us in those things.。
And that's clear in so many places in the Scripture.。
Hebrews 4, verses 14 and 15 talk about how Jesus is our high priest and how He has been。
touched with the feelings of everything that we go through because He went through it Himself。
when He was here on the earth living as a human.。
And that verse tells us crystal clear that Jesus cares about what we feel and what hurts。
us and our pains and our grief.。
He cares about those things and He wants to meet us there and comfort us and encourage。
us.。
Psalms 34, verse 15, we talked about this a few weeks ago, such a beautiful verse that。
says, "The eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous and His ears are listening to their。
cries."。
What that verse is saying, His ears are toward their cries.。
It's saying that God is looking and listening to our need and He cares about our hurt and。
our pain and our grief.。
Second Corinthians, chapter 1, verses 3-7 talks about how God is the God of all comfort。
and He comforts us in all of our affliction, all of our pain.。
So I want to be clear about that.。
It is a biblical truth that God cares about your pain and your grief and your tragedy。
and your mourning.。
And when you experience that, God wants to meet you in that and bring you comfort and。
peace.。
That is a biblical truth.。
And if you're experiencing that right now, grief and mourning, then God wants to meet。
you in that and bring you comfort and peace.。
But while that is a biblical truth, again, I don't think that's necessarily what this。
verse is specifically talking about.。
So we're going to dig a little bit deeper into this and we're going to go for a little。
drive and talk more about what it means to mourn, what it does mean to the followers。
of Jesus, to disciples of Jesus, to mourn, and what it does mean to receive God's comfort.。
As we talk today about what it means to mourn and what it means to be comforted, I want。
us to look out.。
I'm sure you're tired of looking at me every week.。
I'm tired of looking at me every week.。
So today we're going to go for a drive and since we're in my neighborhood, we're going。
to look at my neighborhood.。
But more than that, we're going to look at ourselves.。
We're going to look at Chicago.。
We're going to look at us.。
We're going to talk about what it means to mourn over our brokenness and we're going。
to talk about the comfort that God has for us in that mourning and the hope that we have。
for God's solution, God's redemption, God's rescue.。
Last week, as we discussed Matthew 5.3, I said that the Beatitudes build on one another.。
So to understand the meaning of verse four, we're actually going to start with verse three.。
Last week we talked about what it means to be poor in spirit.。
The fact that it means we are aware of our need for God.。
We're aware of our spiritually bankrupt state without Him.。
Our need for Him is profound.。
It's inescapable.。
And we discussed how poverty of spirit is an essential kingdom value because it's necessary。
for entrance in the kingdom.。
Entrance into the kingdom of God comes by God's grace through faith in the forgiveness。
of our sins through the sacrifice of Jesus on our behalf.。
God gives the grace.。
We're supposed to exercise our faith in Him and that's how we enter into God's kingdom.。
But it can't even happen if we don't know we need Him.。
If we're not aware of our need for God, if we're not aware of our own sinfulness and。
the bankrupt state of our own virtue apart from God, then we'll never ask forgiveness.。
We'll never seek repentance.。
We'll never accept God's grace and we'll never experience the all-encompassing and。
completely sufficient solution of God's redemptive plan.。
None of that will happen unless we're aware of the problem of our own brokenness.。
So you have to become poor in spirit to even enter the kingdom.。
However, being poor in spirit is also a primary value in the kingdom because even once you've。
entered the kingdom, once you have relationship with God, you won't grow in that relationship.。
You won't become more like Jesus.。
You won't grow in love and joy and peace and the other fruits of the spirit unless you're。
aware of your continuing need for God.。
Unless you're acknowledging your need for Him and asking for God's activity and work。
in your life and asking for God's activity and work in your life to increase.。
This is when we first begin a relationship with God.。
As we continue following Jesus, we still need to be aware of our own brokenness and need。
in order to experience the solution of God's grace, God's strength, and God's transformation。
in our lives.。
We have to remain poor in spirit to grow and progress in our relationship with Him and。
in the kingdom of God.。
Now, all this awareness of our own brokenness can be a little bit discouraging.。
And that brings us back to the meaning of Matthew 5, 4, the verse we're looking at today.。
See when this verse talks about mourning, I believe that it's talking about a mourning。
over sin, a mourning over brokenness, a mourning over the reality that we as humans have colossally。
wrecked our lives and our world.。
Remember that God created this world as a perfect place and He created us as perfect。
beings in it.。
Originally, there was no sin.。
There was no suffering.。
There was no disease.。
There was no hatred.。
There was no murder.。
There was no racism.。
There was no poverty.。
There was no hunger.。
There was nothing painful or hurtful in that original plan.。
But we humans wrecked it with our own selfishness and we've been hurting ourselves and hurting。
one another ever since.。
And the more we begin to grasp the reality of this brokenness, the more grief we'll feel,。
the more lament we'll feel.。
And just like this verse describes it as mourning, it's a deep grief.。
It's a deep lament as we really grasp the depth of our need for God, the depth of our。
bankruptcy without Him.。
But this isn't just some type of hopeless despair because there is hope.。
And we'll get to that in a minute.。
But it is a very real assessment of the reality of our brokenness.。
We need to have that.。
And when we get that real, when we get that up close with our brokenness, it's ugly.。
It makes us sad.。
Humans don't like to mourn.。
We don't like to be sad or uncomfortable.。
And a lot of times our first immediate temptation is just to look away, just to ignore the brokenness,。
just to act like it isn't there and try to find something happier to look at.。
But Jesus is telling us in this verse that that behavior isn't acceptable for His followers.。
We can't just ignore the brokenness.。
We can't just imagine it away.。
We need to be honest about it and we need to allow ourselves to feel the sting of its。
reality.。
That's true in our own lives.。
We can't just ignore our brokenness or imagine it away.。
But it's also true as we look at the world around us.。
As we're looking at Chicago today and more specifically at my neighborhood, you can see。
with your eyes some physical manifestations of brokenness.。
There's boarded up houses that have been left to deteriorate over many years as property。
values have declined precipitously.。
There's empty storefronts that used to hold bustling businesses and they're now sitting。
silent.。
A few of those have been boarded up in the last few months because of the COVID-19 pandemic,。
but the truth is most of them have been shut for years, even decades.。
And the few small businesses that were here when the pandemic began, sadly, probably will。
not survive the economic downturn.。
That's a physical manifestation of brokenness in my community, in our city.。
There are boarded up churches with no worshippers.。
That's a physical manifestation of brokenness in my community, in our city.。
Pay attention when you see the police barricade with officers standing around it and manning。
it.。
That's the block in front of Roseland Community Hospital.。
It's a small neighborhood hospital with only 134 beds.。
And they've been so overwhelmed with the COVID-19 patients that they had to set up triage tents。
in the parking lot to process people who are walking up and they had to use their ER as。
an overflow for their ICU.。
That's a physical manifestation of brokenness in my community and in our city.。
Keep looking and you'll also see the human toll.。
That's the most devastating part of it all.。
People whose lives have been wounded by the pain of poverty, the bondage of addictions,。
the trauma of abuse or violence, the sting of abandonment.。
You can see those things written in people's faces.。
And it hurts to see those things.。
But don't just look away.。
Remember, Jesus ruled that out in verse 4.。
We need to see, we need to mourn.。
That's what he said.。
"Blessed are those who mourn."。
It's a kingdom value to see, to mourn.。
But if the first temptation of seeing our brokenness is just to look away, then the。
second is to shift blame from ourselves, to explain away our involvement and absolve ourselves。
of any guilt or responsibility.。
It's easy to do that.。
It's easy to do that as we look at Chicago, as we look at my neighborhood.。
It's easy to tell ourselves that none of it's my fault and of course I don't want any of。
these things to happen.。
I don't wish for these physical manifestations of brokenness to be here, so it doesn't have。
anything to do with me.。
But that's too easy.。
And I believe Jesus rules out that type of thinking in verse 4 as well.。
The mourning that Jesus is talking about here always starts with my own poverty, my own。
need, my own sin, my own guilt.。
You know, when we look at a neighborhood that has a lot of needs, we often just see the。
superficial issues.。
We see the crime, we see issues of poverty, we see issues of homelessness or boarded up。
buildings, things like that.。
And a lot of times we can just simply assume that the only source of those issues is in。
the community itself.。
Now clearly there are issues of brokenness and sin in every community that need to be。
addressed by that community.。
And that's certainly true here in my neighborhood.。
But there are also many external issues involved as well.。
This neighborhood is an excellent example.。
It went from thriving to struggling by means of a multi-decade process that started with。
racial prejudice and fear, discriminatory and predatory housing practices that were。
motivated by racial prejudice, disinvestment in community businesses and institutions that。
followed discrimination, even a loss of jobs due to changes in the global economy.。
And along the way there were breakdowns in the relational health of families, collapses。
in the moral health of churches and religious leaders, plus a heaping helping of personal。
and political selfishness and greed and corruption.。
That's the Chicago way, right?。
Well maybe so, but it's more aptly the human way.。
That's really all of us.。
And it's so easy for us to look at a specific community or a specific person or place, especially。
if that community or that person or that place is different than we are, and just assume。
that it's their problem, not mine.。
But that's not true.。
It's hard to see all of those other things when we look at a boarded up house, but it's。
all there.。
All that human brokenness wrapped up and reflecting us, ourselves.。
Because no one actually tries to make these broken things happen.。
No one wishes for them or wants them to happen, but they do happen all the time.。
And they happen while a lot of us are so busy rushing in pursuit of our own success and。
comfort and happiness that we end up running away from the places of need as fast as we。
can.。
Even many of us who are followers of Jesus and who know better and who should be involved。
in serving Jesus in those places run away to pursue other things.。
And in that way, we're all a part of the brokenness.。
Because honestly, we're all wrapped up in selfishness.。
And as we spoke about a few weeks ago, we're all wrapped up in building our own little。
kingdom where we're the monarch and everything is custom made for our own happiness.。
So we can't just shift the blame and absolve ourselves.。
We can't just say, "It's not my fault.。
It has nothing to do with me."。
We need to be able to see our own brokenness reflected in the brokenness of the world around。
us.。
That's what Jesus calls us to do.。
Jesus calls us to see, to be aware of our need for Him, to be aware of the need around。
us, to mourn, not to blame others, but to mourn our own need, our own poverty, our own。
brokenness.。
Now, at this point, you might be thinking, "Wow, this is kind of a heavy message.。
I think I'm ready to turn it off and go watch some cartoons or something."。
But stay with me.。
This is heavy.。
Jesus was challenging us with some deep and honestly offensive truth here.。
But don't give up yet because there is hope.。
See we're only halfway through this verse.。
And in the second half of the verse, Jesus promises that those who mourn will experience。
comfort.。
Now, what does that mean?。
What does this phrase, "They shall be comforted," mean?。
Well, when we visualize comfort, sometimes we think of God putting His arm around us。
and patting us on the back or patting us on the shoulder and saying, "Hey, it's going。
to be okay."。
And it does mean that.。
That's a part of what it means in this verse, but it means more than that.。
It means so much more.。
It means that God has a solution to our brokenness, a solution that is so beautiful and so perfect。
and so complete that when we turn from seeing our brokenness to beholding God's solution,。
we will literally go from mourning to dancing, as Psalms 30 verse 11 says.。
The solution is redemption.。
Through Jesus, we can be personally healed of our brokenness and have the ashes of our。
failure transformed into the beautiful threads of His robes of righteousness.。
That is true and complete comfort.。
As we are made aware of our brokenness, we are comforted by the resolution of His redemption.。
And that's true for the world around us as well.。
It's true for our neighborhoods, our families.。
The hope for transformation in my neighborhood and in yours is the redemption of Jesus, the。
transformative power of the gospel, healing one heart, one family, one block at a time.。
You see, Jesus wasn't a politician.。
He didn't promise a chicken in every pot or more shovel-ready jobs.。
Jesus was the Savior of humanity and He promised something infinitely better.。
He promised love in every heart, peace in every home, healing for every wound.。
And as we, the followers of Jesus, become aware of the brokenness around us, we can。
be comforted by the understanding that we get to be a part of the solution.。
We can be a small part of the grand redemptive plan of God.。
We can be a part of this kingdom of heaven that we've been talking about these past few。
weeks being present in the right here and right now.。
How does that happen?。
Well, remember, the kingdom of heaven is the rule and reign of God.。
As we obey God and as His presence is active in our lives and we bring the kingdom of heaven。
into contact with our friends, our families, our neighbors, as we serve them and care for。
them and share the love of Jesus with them, we have the opportunity to invite them to。
begin a relationship with God through grace and faith.。
They'll have the opportunity to experience the redemptive work of God in their life and。
to experience the healing and restoration of Jesus for themselves.。
Followers of Jesus get to be a part of God's solution because they're able to participate。
in the redemptive plan of God.。
That is true and complete comfort.。
You get to be a part of God's solution in your neighborhood, on your block, in your。
family and in your own heart and life.。
You get to be a part of the work that God desires to do around you to rebuild hearts。
and lives and homes and through those rebuilt lives to rebuild the schools and the businesses。
and the hospitals and everything else in the community.。
You get to be a part of the solution.。
Now, I understand we don't want to mourn because it offends us.。
It offends our sense of comfort and security.。
It offends our pride.。
But if we don't learn to mourn, we never get to be a part of the solution.。
So let's do it.。
Let's be poor in spirit.。
Let's be aware of our need for God.。
Let's allow ourselves to see the brokenness in our own lives and the lives of those around。
us.。
Let's even allow ourselves to feel the sting of that brokenness.。
Let's not blame others.。
Let's acknowledge our guilt and our part and our sinfulness.。
Let's mourn and then let's move to be a part of God's solution.。
Let's rejoice in the beauty of God's comfort.。
Rejoice in the beauty of God's solution.。
Rejoice in the beauty of God's redemption.。
Let's go out and love and serve and care for those in need.。
Let's share the hope of Jesus.。
That is true comfort.。
Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.。
I want us to close out today by reading from Isaiah chapter 61.。
This is another scripture passage that talks about mourning and comfort and I think it。
summarizes that relationship between those two things really well as we've been talking。
about it today.。
Now Isaiah was a Hebrew prophet that lived hundreds of years before Jesus and he wrote。
this book and this chapter to God's people who had been in mourning and chapter 61 is。
a prophetic look forward towards a time when the comfort will come and it's actually about。
Jesus himself.。
He's talking about the coming Savior, the coming Messiah.。
This is what it says, "The spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed。
me to bring good news to the poor.。
He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and the。
opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor。
and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn。
in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead。
of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit, that they may be called。
oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified.。
They shall build up the ancient ruins.。
They shall raise up the former devastations.。
They shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations."。
And that's just the first four verses.。
I'd encourage you to take some time later today and read the rest of that chapter.。
It's such an encouraging chapter.。
But here's the cool thing.。
The Bible records a story where Jesus himself read that chapter.。
In Luke chapter 4, it talks about at the very beginning of Jesus' ministry, he goes to the。
synagogue in his hometown in Nazareth, and he reads those words that we just read.。
He reads Isaiah 61, and for the first time, those words were read by the person they were。
written about.。
Jesus was there to fulfill them.。
This is what Luke chapter 4, verses 20 and 21 says.。
After he read that passage, it says, "And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to。
the attendant and sat down.。
And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him.。
And he began to say to them, 'Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.'"。
That is true comfort.。
That is something to rejoice in.。
Jesus is the comfort.。
He brought the victory.。
He brought the kingdom.。
And that's something worth rejoicing in, worth being excited about.。
You can go ahead and shout about that, and it's not going to bother anybody but your。
neighbor, so go right ahead and shout.。
That scripture, the comfort, has been brought.。
It's been fulfilled in our hearing.。
Jesus brought it with him.。
Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.。
They'll experience the comfort of God's redemptive plan through Jesus Christ.。
Let's pray.。
God, thank you that you're honest with us.。
Thank you that you tell us the truth, that you don't let us just look away from our brokenness。
or from the brokenness of the world around us, that you don't let us just ignore it and。
try to wish it away.。
You're honest about our need for you.。
And God, I pray that you'd help us to be honest about it too.。
Help us to be poor in spirit.。
Help us to see and acknowledge our need for you.。
God, help us to see it so deeply that it even causes us to mourn and that it breaks our。
heart because of how broken we are and how broken the world around us is and how wrecked。
everything is because of sin and selfishness and all the terrible things that are in our。
world, God.。
But as we mourn, God, I pray that we would not be hopeless, we would not be in despair,。
but we would look to you and find your hope, that we would find your solution, that we。
would rejoice that your solution is present in our lives to heal us, to restore us, to。
change us.。
But through relationship with you, we get to be a part of your solution, a part of your。
redemptive plan, and a part of what you are doing to change the world, God.。
And I pray that we, your people, would be a part of it even now, even in this moment。
of COVID-19 with all the fear and uncertainty and all the need.。
I pray that even now, we, your people, would be a part of your redemptive plan to love。
and to serve and to care and to share hope with those around us.。
God, I pray that we would be the pouring spirit, we would see our need for you, and we would。
be comforted as you transform us and make us a part of your redemptive plan for our。
families, our communities, our neighborhoods, and our world.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
♪ ♪。
