- Good morning, it's great to be here, as always.。
Love being at UV, and thank you for allowing me to be here,。
and thanks Jason for leading us in worship.。
This morning we're gonna be looking。
in the book of Ephesians in chapter two.。
We're gonna look at verses 11 to 22,。
and we'll be talking about being reconciled in Christ.。
And I'm here periodically, when I've been here。
we've been kind of slowly going through。
the book of Ephesians, this letter that Paul wrote。
to the church in Ephesus and the surrounding churches.。
And last time I was here we looked at the first part。
of chapter two where he's talking about。
the fact that we're made alive in Christ.。
We talked about the equality that gives us in Christ,。
that we're all equally made alive in Christ.。
And even though we're different in our giftings,。
in our skills, in our talents,。
in the ways that God has gifted us,。
we're different in our life experiences,。
we're different even in the roles that we play。
in the church and in life and in family。
and things like that.。
We are all equally given the same redemption,。
the same grace, and that puts us really in a place。
where there's no inferior or superiority in the church.。
We are equally forgiven by Christ, equally redeemed,。
equally brought into the family.。
And that's how we're to treat one another.。
So we talked about that last time.。
And today we're gonna be talking about really unity.。
That's what he's addressing in verses 11 to 22.。
And this passage is just so powerful.。
He's talking about the unity of the church。
and how that happens, and it's not through us.。
It's an impossible thing to see this happen。
apart from Christ.。
And that's really what he's describing for us.。
So let's begin reading.。
We'll read these verses from 11 to 22,。
and then look at a few things that we can learn here.。
It says, "Therefore, remember that at one time,。
"you Gentiles in the flesh, called the uncircumcision。
"by what is called the circumcision,。
"which is made in the flesh by hands,。
"remember that you were at that time separated from Christ,。
"alienated from the commonwealth of Israel。
"and strangers to the covenant of promise,。
"having no hope and without God in the world.。
"But now in Christ Jesus,。
"you who once were far off have been brought near。
"by the blood of Christ.。
"For he himself is our peace,。
"who has made us both one,。
"and has broken down in his flesh。
"the dividing wall of hostility。
"by abolishing the law of commandments。
"expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself。
"one new man in place of the two,。
"so making peace and might reconcile us both to God。
"in one body through the cross,。
"thereby killing the hostility.。
"And he came and preached peace to you who are far off。
"and peace to those who were near,。
"for through him, we both have access。
"in one spirit to the father.。
"So then you are no longer strangers and aliens,。
"but you are fellow citizens with the saints。
"and members of the household of God,。
"built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets,。
"Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone,。
"in whom the whole structure being joined together。
"grows into a holy temple in the Lord.。
"In him, you also are being built together。
"into a dwelling place for God by the spirit."。
So he's given us this beautiful picture。
of what the church can be,。
both as individuals, that we are to be this dwelling place。
of God in the spirit, we're to be a temple of the Lord,。
but together as a group,。
that we're to be this dwelling place of God in the spirit,。
this temple in the Lord.。
But he's talking about how it happens。
that God takes all these very different people。
and brings them together and makes them one.。
Now this is something that our world is really craving.。
And I mean, people who don't know Jesus。
are really craving this.。
People want to see human beings brought together.。
People want to see people reconciled across differences.。
That's something our world is craving。
and desires to see so desperately.。
But it's also something,。
I think this is a huge gospel opportunity。
because it's something that we see clearly in our world.。
It doesn't happen on its own.。
It's not a simple thing.。
It doesn't take place easily.。
And we're told here how this can happen in the church。
by the power of Christ.。
And it's such an opportunity for us as we live this out。
to be a testimony of the power of Christ.。
Remember Jesus in the book of John,。
he prayed the high priestly prayer。
right before the crucifixion,。
and he prayed that we would be one.。
And he said that that was one of the ways。
people would know that we were his followers,。
that that would be one of our testimonies of the faith。
is that we're one.。
So I want us to see some things in this passage。
and first what I would love us to consider。
is the fact that apart from Christ,。
there are actual differences that create actual tensions.。
That's real and I love that scripture acknowledges this.。
So sometimes we think,。
well, we need to have unity in the church。
and we need to get along.。
And the way to get along is just to act like。
there's no differences.。
There's no problems.。
There's no problems here.。
Everybody thinks the same and we all agree about everything.。
Yeah, let's just make it work, right?。
But the scripture doesn't do that.。
The scripture acknowledges and says,。
yeah, people are different.。
Cultures are different.。
People have very different ideas about a lot of things.。
And the scripture doesn't ignore that.。
It doesn't gloss over that.。
Look there at verse 11.。
It's saying, "Therefore, remember that one time。
"you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision."。
Paul actually points out, he's like,。
the Gentiles are people who are not a part。
of the Jewish heritage.。
Now they're believers in Christ.。
They're in the church.。
But remember that before people kind of called you names.。
They were like, you guys are the uncircumcision.。
You're the outsiders.。
You're not a part.。
He's reminding them of that.。
And he's saying, who called you that?。
Well, it was the people who called themselves。
the circumcision, the people who said,。
we're the in crowd, you guys are out.。
And then in the same verse,。
he makes the point that even the people who said,。
they're the in crowd, they call themselves the circumcision.。
He said that was actually done by human hands anyway.。
He's saying that that was a boundary。
they set up themselves.。
It wasn't something that was really making them。
closer to God.。
It was just a boundary they set up themselves.。
But he's reminding them, there was this actual division。
between you all.。
Some of you felt like you were in.。
Some of you felt like you were out.。
It was a real tension.。
You guys didn't like each other.。
And I think that's actually really encouraging to us.。
We see tension and divisions in our day.。
Some of them are very deep, right?。
But this one is as deep as it gets.。
It touches on every area of life。
that they were experiencing in the first century.。
The Gentile background believers。
did not understand the Jewish background believers。
and vice versa.。
They didn't understand one another.。
They were very different culturally.。
They had completely different diets.。
They had different ways of living.。
They had a lot of reasons to mistrust one another.。
There was a lot of history,。
a lot of very legitimate grievances in their past.。
The Jewish background believers are like,。
hey, you guys have oppressed us。
and you've killed people in our nation.。
And so there was a lot of legitimate grievances.。
And scripture doesn't ignore that.。
It doesn't say, hey, look, guys,。
let's just forget about that。
and let's just kind of sing kumbaya and try to get along.。
That's not what this passage is saying.。
It's saying, hey, there's real stuff here.。
You guys are really different.。
And you have a past, you have a history,。
and that's okay, we're not gonna ignore that.。
But Jesus is gonna take us through it.。
That's what this passage is telling us.。
It goes on to say that,。
for he himself is our peace who has made us both one。
and has broken down in his flesh。
the dividing wall of hostility.。
Verse 13, I mean, verse 14 there,。
it says there is a dividing wall of hostility.。
It exists, it's real.。
But Jesus is gonna take us through that.。
And that's so good for us to know.。
There are a lot of differences in the church,。
and that's okay.。
God is the one who created the nucleus。
of a lot of those things.。
Obviously, we have extended them sometimes。
in unhealthy ways,。
but God's the one who created us in his image,。
and a part of being created in his image。
means that we are creative,。
and we like to build things,。
and we like to do things.。
And in Genesis 1:27,。
God gave what theologians call the cultural mandate,。
where he said to the first human beings,。
"Go out into the earth and subdue it, do your thing."。
And ever since then, humans have been doing that, right?。
We've been going into the earth,。
and we've been building cities,。
and creating things, and making art,。
and creating culture, and making music,。
and all these different things that we do。
that God actually created us to do, right?。
But different people in different places。
do that very differently.。
So cities in different parts of the world look differently,。
and our culture looks differently,。
our languages look differently.。
And so then, as we do that,。
that becomes, at times, a dividing wall.。
And again, scripture is not saying,。
"Well, that shouldn't be there.。
"It's a problem for you guys to have different cultures."。
It's not saying that at all.。
Our cultures reflect the beauty and the majesty of God,。
because God's a creative God,。
and he made us with all these cultural differences.。
And when we come into the church,。
it's not that we're supposed to say,。
"Well, I have to leave my culture at the door,。
"and I have to leave all these things outside,。
"and somehow try to be different。
"when I'm in the body of Christ."。
No, God says, "Bring these things into the body of Christ,。
"but I'm also going to make you a new humanity。
"through Jesus."。
And I think that's really important for us to know.。
There are issues, there are genuine tensions,。
and at times, even in the church,。
there are genuine, legitimate grievances from the past.。
And we shouldn't ignore that,。
we shouldn't try to whitewash it or gloss it over.。
That's not what the Bible does.。
The Bible says that God is going to do something。
to reconcile us.。
And that really starts with the fact that in Christ,。
we can all be reconciled to God.。
Anyone can be reconciled to God,。
and everyone can be reconciled to God.。
These verses make it clear, verses 12 to 13,。
"Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ,。
"alienated from the commonwealth of Israel,。
"and strangers to the covenants of the promise,。
"having no hope and without God in the world."。
He's talking to the Gentile background believers.。
He's saying, "Don't forget, there was a time。
"when you guys didn't know anything about the word,。
"you didn't know anything about the truth,。
"and you were completely separated from God."。
So, Paul is reminding us that, hey, we're all sinful,。
and a lot of us used to be in that state.。
But then, the gospel, grace, verse 13,。
"But now, in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off。
"have been brought near."。
Yeah, in the past, you were completely separated.。
You didn't have hope, you were alienated。
from the truth of God.。
But now, you have been brought from far off to near.。
You've been brought close to God.。
How did that happen?。
By the blood of Christ.。
So, what we see here is that all of us,。
even though we're all sinful, and we're all broken,。
we can all be redeemed in Christ,。
we can all be forgiven through Christ,。
and that all means all, regardless of our background,。
our life experience, our culture, wherever we have been,。
or whatever we've gone through,。
we can be reconciled to God through Christ.。
We can be brought near by the blood of Christ.。
And what we have to remember is that,。
as we're reconciled to God in Christ,。
then we become reconciled to one another.。
He says that, "He himself is our peace,。
"is our peace, that he might create in himself。
"one new man in place of the two,。
"reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross,。
"thereby killing the hostility."。
He himself is our peace.。
Jesus himself is our peace.。
And we are reconciled to one another through the cross.。
This Greek word here for one new man,。
anthropos means human being without reference to gender.。
And it's saying that there's a new type of human being,。
a new identity, a new way to be human.。
It's not based in Adam, but it's based in Christ,。
saying God is creating a new humanity。
and a new community through the cross.。
It's what this verse is telling us here.。
"He himself is our peace,。
"that he might create in himself one new man。
"in place of the two,。
"reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross,。
"thereby killing the hostility."。
So as we begin to individually be reconciled to God。
through Christ and the cross,。
God starts to use that to reconcile us to one another.。
And even people that are different than us。
or people that we may struggle to understand。
or to relate to, or maybe just something。
in their personality that really kind of grates against us,。
and it's hard for us to understand。
what's going on in their life,。
God begins to reconcile us to one another in Christ.。
And just like other areas of our sanctification,。
and sanctification is just a church word。
that means we're becoming more like Jesus.。
After we come to know Jesus, we're growing,。
and it's a process of becoming more like Jesus.。
And just like other areas of that in life,。
this is a process over time,。
being reconciled to others in the church。
is a process over time.。
So we need to be patient,。
patient and exercise grace with one another.。
We need to understand that it takes us time.。
God has to work on our heart.。
God has to do that to me all the time.。
God has to work on my heart。
and show me areas where I'm being proud。
and where I'm not understanding someone else。
because of my own pride or my own stubbornness,。
or the fact that I'm like,。
"This is the way I like to do it,。
"this is what I'm comfortable with,。
"this is the way we should do it."。
Sometimes it takes time for God to work on that。
and chisel it away.。
So we need to be patient。
and give grace to one another in the church.。
But at the same time, we need to expect。
that this kind of reconciliation。
would be reflected in the church.。
It should be, that we would be reconciled。
to one another in Christ.。
And if we're really serious about following Jesus,。
then we should expect that to be reflected in our lives。
and in our churches.。
We should expect to see that.。
And that reconciliation to one another。
is really a holistic thing.。
Look at verses 18 and 20 here, it says,。
"For through him, we both have access。
"in one spirit to the Father.。
"So then you are no longer strangers and aliens,。
"but you are fellow citizens with the saints。
"and members of the household of God,。
"built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets,。
"Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone."。
So these verses talk about our spiritual condition,。
our physical condition, and our emotional condition.。
All of that is in these verses.。
And so being reconciled to Christ,。
to one another through Christ,。
is really a holistic thing.。
Verse 18 says, "For through him,。
"we both have access in one spirit to the Father."。
When he says we both, he's talking about,。
he's talking about the two different groups。
that he's mentioned.。
He's talking about the Gentile background believers。
and the Jewish background believers.。
He's saying, remember, through Christ,。
both of us have access in one spirit to the Father.。
I also like how in verse 18 and throughout this passage,。
Paul is speaking in the first person.。
He's not saying like,。
"Yeah, you guys have this problem with being reconciled."。
He's saying, "Hey, I'm a part of it too.。
"I'm in here too."。
That's why he says we both.。
Because he was a Jewish background believer.。
And remember, before he was saved,。
he had been, he was serious, right?。
He was really serious about the Jewish faith,。
so much so that he was persecuting Christians.。
And before he was saved, he was the type of guy。
that definitely would not have hung out with the Gentiles.。
Because it was such a deep part of what he believed.。
And a deep part of kind of the legalism。
that he was practicing.。
So he includes himself.。
He says we both have access in one spirit to the Father.。
That shows us the spiritual part of this reconciliation.。
That he's saying, as a result of reconciliation in Christ,。
we all have equal spiritual access to God.。
There's a spiritual reconciliation that takes place。
where we're all put in one family, right?。
And most of us are pretty comfortable with that.。
We're like, "Okay, I get it.。
"The spiritual reconciliation, I can handle that."。
But then he goes on, make it a little more personal。
in verse 19, he says, "So then you are no longer。
"strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens。
"with the saints and members of the household of God."。
Now he's saying that there's this actual physical。
and emotional proximity and relationship with one another。
that we come into.。
So the difference in the language there.。
Before we were strangers and aliens,。
people who don't spend time together.。
That's what strangers are.。
Aliens, that word means like foreigners.。
We were people who are like, "They're different than me.。
"They are the other, we don't spend time together."。
But now you're fellow citizens.。
Fellow citizens means, "Hey, we're on the same team.。
"We are together."。
And so he's giving us this picture。
of a physical change in our proximity to one another.。
That we go from being strangers, we don't hang out,。
we don't spend time together, to now, through Christ,。
we are members of the same household.。
Sounds like family, right?。
And that's what he's saying.。
You guys used to be strangers,。
you wouldn't have talked to each other.。
Now, you're family.。
That means we've come into physical and emotional proximity。
with one another.。
Now that's a little bit less comfortable, right?。
It's easy to say, "Well, I know other people in the church,。
"they might be different than me,。
"but I'm supposed to be reconciled to Christ in them,。
"so I can be spiritually reconciled.。
"I know spiritually we're shoulder to shoulder."。
That's easy.。
But when you say, "Oh, wait, I'm actually supposed。
"to be physically reconciled to them,。
"and there's points where I'm supposed to be actually。
"in physical proximity with them and in fellowship,。
"and we're supposed to be in the same room."。
That's hard, 'cause we say, "Wait a second,。
"these people are different than me."。
That's why it's hard to get in the same room.。
That's why it's hard to be reconciled in that way,。
to be in fellowship.。
That's why it's hard to be in emotional proximity.。
It's hard to understand their experience。
and walk through something with them,。
because we're different.。
But that's what this passage is telling us.。
This means that this reconciliation。
that God has done through Christ。
should impact our physical proximity。
with others in the church,。
and especially, I think, those who are different than us.。
That means it impacts our emotional openness。
and our bonds with one another,。
our fellowship together,。
and our service to the world around us.。
All areas of our life should reflect this reconciliation。
that Jesus is affecting in us.。
Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets,。
Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone.。
He's the foundation of what's happening in the church.。
Now, so far, as we look at these things,。
we start to say, "Okay, Paul,。
"this is good stuff,。
"but you don't really understand the world we live in."。
Right?。
I mean, people disagree about a lot of stuff,。
and we love to talk about unity.。
We love to call things united this and that.。
Like, even the United States,。
not as united as we would like to think it is, right?。
We love to talk about unity,。
but it just doesn't happen.。
It's too hard.。
This picture here, we read it, and we're like,。
"Okay, yeah, we're all made one new man in Christ.。
"That's cool, but that's not real," right?。
And we have to understand。
that this reconciliation through Christ。
is impossible apart from Christ,。
and that's what he's saying at the end of the passage here.。
"Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets,。
"Christ himself being the cornerstone."。
Christ is the cornerstone, the foundation of this unity.。
It says, "In whom the whole structure,。
"the whole structure of the church,。
"being joined together,。
"grows into a holy temple in the Lord."。
But none of that happens.。
The joining does not happen without the cornerstone.。
In him, you also are being built together。
into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.。
That doesn't happen without the cornerstone.。
This reconciliation that we're talking about。
is impossible apart from Christ.。
We don't do this on our own.。
We can't reconcile ourselves to others.。
We don't have the power to do that.。
Only God can do this.。
Only God can create a new humanity.。
And I want us to think real quickly。
about some of the things we as humans do。
to try to fill this void,。
because all of us understand,。
even people who don't know Jesus,。
understand in their hearts that it's wrong,。
that humans experiencing division and hatred。
towards one another is not how we were supposed to be.。
It's not what God created us for.。
Even people who are not believers,。
they don't believe in God, they understand that.。
They say, "Wait, these things are wrong.。
"Racism and discrimination。
"and all these hostilities and divisions, they're wrong."。
People get that.。
And honestly, that's good.。
It's good that as humans, we see that.。
And as humans, we're good at kind of diagnostics。
and naming the problems.。
That's something we do very well.。
But the solutions are a lot harder.。
And so when we think about outside the church,。
there are things that people say,。
"Okay, well, let's try to fill this gap.。
"Let's try to fix this in different ways."。
And sometimes we're tempted to do these things。
in the church itself.。
But those solutions don't live up to the standard。
of what God calls us to, right?。
So one of the first things we see a lot。
outside the church and within the church sometimes。
that's just a human tendency,。
when we think about the divisions of who we are as people,。
is we fall into forms of tribalism.。
We say, "Well, I get along with the people。
"that are like me.。
"Those people are different.。
"It's really hard to understand them。
"or get along with them.。
"So we'll just do our thing with our group.。
"They can do their thing with their group。
"and that'll work," right?。
Us human beings have done that since the beginning.。
And there's a lot of kind of logical seeming reasons。
that make sense there, right?。
But that's not what God called us to in the church.。
God called us in the church to love one another,。
even when it's difficult,。
even when we don't understand one another,。
even when we have to cross a barrier to love one another.。
So that ultimately doesn't really love others.。
It just seeks my own interests and the people like me.。
It falls short of God's standards.。
Another one that we see a lot outside the church。
is some form of tolerance, where people say,。
"Well, I understand that people are different.。
"I really respect that,。
"but, and I'm gonna tolerate the fact they're different.。
"We're gonna be in the same room。
"and we're gonna be there,。
"but I'm still not really loving someone.。
"I'm just kind of tolerating the fact。
"that they're different than me, and I'm okay with that,。
"but ultimately, I'm not really loving them。
"the way God calls me to."。
Another thing we see is kind of a form of self-exoneration,。
where we say, "Well, I know there's problems,。
"but I'm not that type of person, right?。
"I really care about other people,。
"and I'm not involved in the division and the hostility,。
"so that's not me.。
"I'm not a part of that."。
Again, that falls short of God's standard.。
What has God called us to do?。
God has called us to genuinely love one another。
and to genuinely be reconciled.。
Not just to say, "Well, it's easier not to interact。
"'cause we're different," or not just to say,。
"Well, we'll kind of interact,。
"but I'm just gonna tolerate someone else,。
"even though I don't really agree with them。
"or understand them," and not just to say,。
"Well, I'm a good person,。
"and so I'm not someone who would experience those tensions.。
"I'm above all that," and to act like。
we're not impacted by these things.。
No, God's calling us to say,。
"Hey, these things are real.。
"There are challenges in the church,"。
and not just the cultural tension,。
but just different ways of thinking.。
Like, "This person thinks differently。
"about ministry than I do,"。
or, "This person thinks differently。
"about worship than I do and how it looks."。
Those types of very real, practical things,。
God calls us to say, "Hey, these things are real,。
"and I'm supposed to love this person across this barrier."。
And yeah, there may be some right and wrong involved,。
and maybe we need to really focus on the scripture。
and find out what God has actually called us to do.。
I'm not saying we set aside the truth。
or set aside issues of right or wrong,。
'cause we have to work through that in the church, right?。
But even as we do that, we're still genuinely loving people。
across those barriers of difference.。
We're not just saying, "Well, I think you're wrong,。
"but I'm gonna tolerate you."。
We're saying, "Hey, I love you,。
"and I want you to know Christ more."。
And maybe you're misunderstanding。
or misinterpreting this part of the Bible,。
but as we walk through this together。
and we move towards the truth,。
I want to love you the entire time,。
and I wanna have my arms around you.。
That's what Jesus is calling us to in the church,。
actual love,。
love and respect for God's image in me。
and what God's done in my life,。
love and respect for God's image in you。
and what he's done in your life,。
love and respect and amazement at the redemption of Christ。
and the grace that God has poured into me,。
and also with the redemption and grace。
that God has poured into you.。
And love and respect and amazement and appreciation。
for the story that God has built into my life。
and all of the experiences。
and the things that have led me to who I am,。
and love and amazement and respect and admiration。
and appreciation for the story。
that God has built into your life。
and all the experiences and all the things。
that have led you to where you are.。
Again, it doesn't mean that we're not serious。
about right and wrong。
or that we have to set those things aside.。
It simply means that we're really supposed。
to love one another and be reconciled.。
And that's what unity looks like in the church.。
Unity in the church is not uniformity.。
It's not all of us being the same.。
Back to what I said at the beginning,。
that's not what God wants.。
God created us with all this beauty and diversity,。
and he did that on purpose.。
But unity in the church actually assumes diversity.。
It assumes that there's a lot of differences,。
and yet we still love one another.。
That's impossible.。
How could we do that?。
Through Christ, and that's what Paul's saying here.。
He's saying this is only gonna happen。
as Christ brings you together。
and makes a new human out of you.。
You're not gonna lose your background,。
you're not gonna lose your experiences,。
you're not gonna lose your culture.。
You're gonna bring that in with you.。
But now you're gonna have this new basis,。
this new foundation of fellowship。
that you share in common with other believers.。
And it's difficult.。
I know it is.。
I know you guys feel that tension.。
Anybody who does ministry in a diverse city like this,。
it's difficult and you feel that tension.。
I certainly feel it in my neighborhood.。
You get a group of people in the room,。
even if they're all believers,。
they all have different ideas, different experiences,。
different culture, different preferences,。
different things that they enjoy that are important to them.。
It's hard to bring everyone together。
and to move in the right direction.。
But what this passage is telling us。
is that God can supernaturally do this in our hearts.。
And I wanna go back to where we started。
and remind us that the world is craving this.。
I would say, and I think there's plenty of evidence。
of this in our world, that this is so impossible。
that the world can't do it.。
Apart from Christ, it's just not gonna happen.。
People try to make it happen in a lot of ways.。
And people try to bring people together, and that's good.。
That's wonderful.。
We should seek the peace of our cities。
and of our nations and of our world.。
So that's good.。
But there's example after example in our world。
of the fact that we can't make it happen。
and we can't sustain it apart from Christ.。
People just can't do it.。
As hard as they try, we can't cross those barriers。
long-term.。
We might get people together for a little bit,。
but we can't hold it together.。
And the world is craving that.。
And I think it's such a gospel opportunity。
for us in the church if we're able to say,。
hey, look at what God is doing here.。
It's not us.。
We're a group of very different people。
with very different ideas.。
We have very different life experiences.。
We have different cultures.。
We have different languages.。
We have different foods and different preferences。
and so many things.。
And yet we come into the same room。
and we don't just tolerate each other.。
We actually love each other and we love to be here.。
It's one of the reasons I love being at UV。
and love being with you all.。
I hope you guys love me back.。
But that's why.。
Because it's such a beautiful thing。
when the people of God come together。
and say we have this foundation of fellowship,。
actual, real, genuine fellowship.。
We're not faking it.。
We're not pretending to like each other.。
We really love one another.。
And I really love you guys.。
I get excited every time I come in the door。
and see all the people here and see what God is doing here.。
And that's genuine.。
I love UV.。
I love this church.。
And it's not because everything here。
is exactly like the churches that I grew up in.。
A lot of it's very different.。
It's because of Jesus.。
We have this foundation in Christ。
that brings us together and helps us to love one another。
and makes us into this new humanity.。
And I think that's such a beautiful and powerful vision。
for us to live into in the church.。
And like I said, it's a process.。
It doesn't happen immediately.。
We have to give grace and be patient with one another.。
But that's where we should be headed.。
And that's what we should pray for.。
That's what we should desire.。
That's what we should move towards.。
That's what we should let God work in our hearts。
to bring that about and be open and sensitive。
and soft-hearted before God and say,。
God, I know I'm uncomfortable right now.。
This is different for me,。
but I'm gonna let you pull me in this direction。
because I know this is your work to reconcile us in Christ.。
And as we do that, we start to have this testimony。
that the world can't refute.。
And the world looks at us in the church and says,。
you know what, I don't always like what you guys say。
about Jesus and sin and like the whole,。
Jesus is the only way to heaven.。
I don't know about that,。
but you guys actually love each other.。
Like, you really like being together.。
And I see you doing that across barriers of culture。
and ethnicity and race and different personalities。
and different giftings and different ideas.。
That becomes a really powerful testimony。
to the world around us, that Jesus is making us one.。
And just like Jesus prayed,。
it becomes something that people start to say,。
I think those people are really true followers.。
They're true disciples.。
They're truly believers in Christ。
because that's defining who they are,。
that they're coming together.。
They're reconciling Christ across barriers。
of actual difference and actual tension.。
So that's my prayer for my life.。
And that's my prayer for us as we move forward。
in our respective communities, following Jesus together,。
is that we will grow more and more into this reconciliation,。
that God will be more at work in our lives,。
and it'll be more and more evident to the people around us,。
that they'll see us reflecting this in our communities。
and reflecting the gospel and the beauty。
of Jesus making one new humanity。
out of very different things that existed before.。
Let's pray.。
God, I thank you for this miraculous picture。
that you give us in this passage。
of what it looks like to be reconciled in Christ.。
And God, I confess in my own life。
how impossible this seems at so many different times.。
It's not impossible for us to pretend like we want peace。
or to pretend like we want to work together。
or pretend like we want to get along.。
But it's really hard to love people that are different。
when we may not understand all the things。
that make us different.。
That really is hard.。
And what's way harder is to then get us all。
to head in the same direction.。
But God, you give us this miraculous picture in your word。
of the fact that we can be made。
into one new humanity through Christ.。
And so that's our prayer, God.。
We ask that our hearts would be open to you,。
that you would do this, that your kingdom would come。
in this world through us, your people,。
and that you would make us one in Christ。
so that others would know that we're your disciples, God.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
