guest speaker Tommy. Thank you very much. Very good job, very good job. Thank you。
very much. Hey let me ask you a quick question for those especially those。
actually doesn't apply to those who are online but more so in person. Who watches。
football here in this room? Oh am I am I on?。
Is it on?。
Good? All right perfect. Who watches football here in this room? All right not。
too much. All right but if you do come to the Super Bowl party all right I want to。
at least take one minute to give you some basic information so you can come。
and know what's going on. Here are the two teams that are playing today. The。
Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs. The two quarterbacks Jaylen Hurts。
on the Eagles very strong Christian believers. Patrick Mahomes Kansas City。
Chiefs very strong believers as well too. All right your three guys that you guys。
need to pay attention to. There is Chris Jones their defense he's the guy on my。
left. Patrick Mahomes on my right. The middle guy with the C is Travis Kelsey。
who is the tight end. He's your best receiver on there. The other guys don't。
really matter so just pay attention to those guys. The third Jaylen Hurts is。
right in the middle. Then you have AJ Brown and then from that point up Miles。
Sanders to my right. The coach on that team is Andy Reid who is currently the。
coach of the Kansas City Chiefs but he was the former coach of the Philadelphia。
Eagles so that's why they're calling it that Andy Reid Bowl. All right so at。
least some basic information that when you're sitting there and you're talking。
with someone you're not asking so what quarter are we on and how many baskets。
have they made. All right so and then also you you know this I mean a lot of。
times we're Super Bowl everyone pays attention to the commercials and all of。
that stuff so enjoy it's the last game of the season but it's a good time of。
fellowship as well too. Well this morning we're you know you guys are stuck with。
me it looks like you guys are stuck with me once a month here and so you get to。
hear my thoughts every single month and every single year I'm not sure if you。
get a chance to do this every year I like to pick a character or I like to。
pick a book in the Bible and for that entire year that's who I study. Now at。
the same time I totally understand a lot of times there's these Bible one-year。
plans and all that stuff and I appreciate that I like going deep into。
something and so whether it's me a lot of times at one year I studied the life。
of David then I spent some time studying Solomon I actually spent about a good。
nine months studying John chapter 1 all the way to John chapter 7 to really。
fully understand it. You saw that with Joseph all of that I want to do that。
with Elijah and if you ever get a chance just spend dive deep into and say Lord。
what is it that you're teaching me through this character or through this。
book and you're reading the same verses over and over and over again. Unlike Mark。
who has to prepare a sermon once a week I get a chance I have the luxury。
of preparing it once a month and so for the whole month that's what I study so。
for the last month I've just been studying 1st Kings 17 1 through 7 and。
I'm always asking Lord what is it that you're asking me what is it that you're。
saying to me I just keep rereading and rereading and rereading because there。
are days you sit there and you look at the same passage for the 50th time and。
it's something you realize wait a minute I never saw that before it makes。
scripture come alive what as you begin to understand it so hey today as we dive。
into 1st Kings chapter 17 and look at the lives of Elijah I do want to add in。
one bit background information that I think sometimes it's very good to。
understand is I think a lot of times in order to fully appreciate the life of。
Elijah you've got to understand the historical background of what was going。
on prior before Elijah came there was kind of a stability probably not perfect。
but for over a hundred years Israel was essentially led by three kings you had。
Saul who was your first king and he was probably stable he was the strongest of。
everyone he was the most athletic everyone on paper he fit what a king。
should be he was that warrior that the people chose but the problem with Saul。
is he had character flaws he had character issues that pretty soon。
started affecting his leadership to the point where he was disqualified from。
leadership and God had to find a new leader and we know the story he finds it。
in this young shepherd boy in David when Samuel the Prophet goes to Jesse he's。
in there bring all your sons I want anoint the next king and Jesse forgets。
David because he's out in the field tending his father's sheep story goes he。
defeats Goliath and later on he is chased after Saul who tries to murder。
him all of that and he ultimately becomes king he doesn't become just any。
king he becomes the greatest King Israel besides Jesus later on becomes the。
greatest king that Israel ever sees he builds the first temple everything but。
he makes one fatal flaw what happens with him in Bathsheba and eventually。
with Uriah the Hittite completely destroys his kingdom his leadership and。
he now even though he regrets it there is ultimatums there is all of the。
repercussions to the mistakes that he makes and pretty soon it goes to his。
other son Solomon well Solomon unlike David and also Saul was the smartest of。
all three of them he merely asked God for wisdom and God gave him wisdom and。
he was the wisest of all the Kings but lust and women got in the way and pretty。
soon he was deterred because his focus once on other things besides pleasing。
the Lord and here we are at the end of Solomon's rule a civil war breaks out。
the stability that they have faced even though it was run by weird leaders here。
and there a civil war breaks out and there the nation is divided into a。
northern kingdom which is referred to as Israel where the story of Elijah takes。
place the northern kingdom and a southern kingdom referred to as Judah in。
the northern kingdom they had 19 Kings during that span and all of them were。
wicked all of them were wicked according to scripture it's sort of like what。
what happened during Joshua during the days of judges when Joshua passed away。
these judges took over and a lot of times one of the phrases that you see in。
judges over and over again is that they did evil in the eyes of the Lord same。
thing is happening here in the southern kingdom they had 17 Kings now out of the。
17 eight of them followed the Lord but nine of them were wicked they were。
taken over later on by the Babylonians and it becomes the setting for Nehemiah。
and Ezra because the walls of Jerusalem are destroyed and you remember Nehemiah。
he is the cupbearer for the king he has a burden to rebuild those walls and now。
we dive into first Kings chapter 17 verses 1 to 7 I don't need those slides。
anymore if you guys mind taking that off as well - first Kings chapter 17 verses。
1 to 7 now Elijah the Tishbit of Tishbi in Gilead said to Ahab as the Lord the。
God of Israel lives before whom I stand there shall be neither dew nor rain。
these years except by my word let's break it down in terms of this passage。
it's first a little bit now Elijah a lot of times now for those who I got a。
chance to meet with a bunch of different Moody students and sometimes you want to。
look at the original languages I still remember taking my two semesters at。
Greek and you're always looking at the original Old Testament language that was。
written in Greek I don't always like going there but there is one point I do。
want to make about that Elijah in the original Hebrew language because the Old。
Testament was written in Greek in Hebrew Elijah is translated as literally my God。
is Jehovah you have the L you have the job with the I in the middle literally。
my God is Jehovah that is what Elijah's is translate name is translated to。
Elijah the Tishbit of Tishbi in Gilead now where in the world is that if you。
ask the folks who wrote the original passage they don't know if you ask the。
people now who are scholars where this was they don't know they know it's。
somewhere in Gilead but do they know where it is not really it's probably。
some rural area small little town that no has been to my brother actually have。
a twin brother he recently moved from Chicago and he lives in Payson Arizona。
has any of you guys ever been to Payson Arizona it is two and a half hours away。
from the nearest airport it is an hour away from the nearest Costco the。
internet over there is 3g I went there to visit I'm sure what in the world did。
I walk myself into it feels like you've gone 10 15 years back I was trying to。
get an uber and they said there's no over I said how do people get around they。
said well there's this phone call of this guy that you call and he could come。
and pick you up I said really and so here Elijah comes from this small little。
town that no one the Tishbit of Tishbi in Gilead and he says to Ahab is the。
Lord the God of Israel lives there shall be neither dew nor rain these years。
except by my word so somehow this guy my God is Jehovah translated that's what。
his name means who comes from this rural area it's a meeting with the king how he。
gets the meeting with the king I have no idea somehow he gets a meeting with the。
king so he stands there and he just says in one word because we didn't know。
anything about Elijah he just makes his first appearance in chapter 17 and he。
says to him Ahab there'll be neither dew nor rain these years except by my word。
okay he I get the feeling he's kind of rough around the edges he kind of says。
whatever is in his mind you recognize some of those guys right I mean we see。
that even in scriptures we see that with the prophets Jeremiah was kind of rough。
around the edges Paul definitely was rough around the edges Paul said。
whatever was I I think Paul lacked a lot of that social grace a lot of that so。
the social interaction John the Baptist was definitely like that as well too and。
here Elijah kind of just says whatever is on his mind and he directly says to。
him you're not gonna get dew nor rain these years except by my word now why。
was this so important why was holding off dew and rain so important to the。
story to understand that you don't need to turn to that let me turn it read to。
you first Kings chapter 16 verse 9 first Kings 16 in the 38th year of as Asa king。
of Judah southern kingdom now Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel。
northern kingdom where the story takes place northern Sunder Kingdom and Ahab。
the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria for 22 years so in the northern。
kingdom Samaria is the capital now if you think through John chapter 4 Jesus。
and the Samaritan woman Jews don't go through Samaria you're beginning to。
understand why capital city is in Samaria and Ahab the son of Omri did。
evil in the sight of the Lord more than all who were before him so what you're。
saying there and remember we talked in background there was 19 kings in the。
northern kingdom all of them were bad there isn't a good one all of them were。
bad you're telling me Ahab was the worst of all of them he was the most evil of。
all of them that's it and as if it has been a light thing for him to walk in。
the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat he took for his wife Jezebel the daughter。
of Ethel king of the Sidonians wait Jezebel why is that important if you go。
and we do not have time to go through each of the kings in first Kings it。
always mentions the name of the king but never the wife never the Queen for the。
first time we hear Jezebel we see Jezebel the wife and the Queen is。
mentioned later on as we look throughout the stories Elijah in the next few months。
that we talk about this Jezebel plays a huge role because she's even more evil。
than Ahab I actually think she's the strings behind why Ahab's the person。
that he is Jezebel plays a key role here in this and so the author wants to tell。
us hey look Ahab was bad there is Jezebel lurking and she is pure evil and。
that's the story that we have and from that point on they went and served Baal and。
worshipped him he erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal which he built。
in Samaria the capital all right why is that important what is Baal then? Baal is。
a god of lightning and storm and responsible for the fertility of the。
land they built Baal because they trusted and were gonna place their trust。
in Baal that he was gonna make their land fertile he was gonna bring rain he。
was gonna bring everything and they were all gonna benefit that and here Elijah。
comes and says really you're gonna put a god that you're gonna worship in the。
nation of Israel so that they could bring you fertility of land interesting。
I'm gonna bring my God and up you one and I am gonna withhold rain and dew。
until I say so let's see what your God does with that I think as Christ。
followers we tend to do the same thing don't we it's not like we have statues。
it's not like we built altars like the Asherah pole all that stuff I think。
sometimes we do have these little gods that we have in our life things that we。
place our trust in that we think will bring our success and achieve our goals。
maybe that's in the form of relationships if I could get that one。
relationship that guy or that girl or if I could get that one job or their career。
path that job that opens the door and that would achieve all my goals all。
right if I can have this much money and we establish these little gods we're。
still following Christ we still believe in Christ but God Christ and God becomes。
a little God amongst all these other gods that we have and we pretty soon。
start putting our trust in multiple things now here's the one thing it。
doesn't happen overnight it's not like one day we wake up one day and say all。
right Lord I followed after you but you're not it and so I'm gonna follow。
everyone in people and then as a result here we go it doesn't happen like that。
it happens in little decisions that we make in the adventures of our life let。
me give you an example I had a pastor friend who I loved dearly I really。
really respected he was so influential influential on my life growing up as a。
pastor he soon started getting frustrated at church politics it started。
happening he says I don't like this church politics I'm sick and tired of it。
then from that point I started becoming money problems we don't have enough。
money as a pastor and with four or five kids growing if I had enough money life。
wouldn't be so hard eventually he left the pastorate and church and then want。
to become a pastor he got a secular job in the corporate world he got more money。
and he started enjoying that money and he started realizing wow this money。
helps open doors for many different things and you begin to see pastorate。
didn't have money got tired of church politics from that point on now he has。
money and he's beginning to put his trust in that money now that money opens。
doors for him to do traveling to go to nicer restaurants all of those things I。
like this pursuit this is pretty good it opens doors on Sundays it's okay if I。
miss miss church service it's okay if I don't get fellowship and you start。
distancing away politics he soon gets frustrated with a lot of the right wing。
and all the other stuff so he gets frustrated and pretty soon he stops。
believing the Bible the Bible is no longer the central authority maybe the。
Bible was wrong maybe people aren't imperfect when he wrote the Bible and。
now he's completely gone I sat there with him not too long ago he says how do。
you still have hope because I lost hope a while ago it doesn't happen overnight。
we walk in there when we come to accept Christ with our focus we're gonna follow。
Christ we're gonna do all our but alongside of it different aspects in our。
life start getting in our way it starts affecting our life and so every single。
day right we have to and here's a good illustration we're so used to in this。
technology in Chrome and Google world and everything like that to enter our。
password login password and suddenly a notice pops up says would you like to。
remember this password yes because I don't want to sit there manual entering。
my password every day but yet at the same time we log in and everything's。
there we get our Google Chrome we get our Google Drive we get Dropbox。
everything like that but every single day we have to log in again every day we。
have to manually log in and choose to follow Christ and commit to follow。
Christ each and every single day because when we do not we start establishing。
these little gods and it begins to move us away from who our primary focus is。
life is not sitting there what these days I just realized chat GPT is not。
chat GPT where I sit there and say hey what's the sermon for first Kings 17 in。
two minutes it spits out my sermon it's not me sitting there and logging in my。
password and for the rest of my life it logs me in no every day it logs me off。
and every day I got restart the process I got redo the process I got recommit。
every single day now look at here's the one thing I forgot or actually not。
forgot but here's the part that I glance over look at verse 1 right here's what he。
says you're gonna have neither do nor rain these years and he says as the Lord。
the God of Israel lives underline this portion this next phrase I'm gonna read。
underline it highlight it because it becomes the theme of this passage and。
all of Elijah's life before whom I stand that's his thing that's his motivation。
it is the Lord before whom I stand and that is why I'm confronting you a how。
that is why I'm doing what I'm doing before whom I stand motivation informs。
action the actions of a Christian is good you could go to church and do all。
these things you go small group all of these things great。
what's your motivation Elijah's motivation is before whom I stand your。
motivation informs your action your commitment before the Lord if you。
believe truly that you have the same vision that Elijah has that I stand for。
here because I follow the Lord before whom I stand it changes how you approach。
work it changes how you approach your life as a spouse how you treat your wife。
how you treat your husband it affects you and how you treat your family if。
facts you in terms of how you treat people you don't like your boss your。
co-workers you don't like you excel at doing work every day you excel and not。
being lazy at work you excel at school you don't cheat at school because all of。
those things because my motivation is before whom I stand。
it's that your motivation is that my motivation or do we just go through the。
routines of action every single day Elijah my God is Jehovah comes out of。
nowhere from tish be the way knows where tish be is a tells a ham this is what's。
gonna happen why because my motivation is from the person before whom I stand。
keep going verse 2 and the word of the Lord came to him depart from me and turn。
eastward and hide yourself by the brook a chariot which is east of the Jordan。
you shall drink from the brook and I have commanded the Ravens to feed you。
there so he went and did according to the Lord the word of the Lord he went。
and lived by the brook chariot that is east of the Jordan and the Ravens。
brought him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the。
evening and he drank from the brook and after a while the brook dried up because。
there was no rain in the land a couple things I want to say about this number。
one I was very intrigued by the Raven and I spent a lot of time trying to。
understand so how did the Raven bring him food did the Raven just sit there。
and just go on his shoulder and bring him food and all that so I had to。
understand that a little bit so pretty much I think one of the reasons why God。
was telling him about the Raven you know how Ravens bring food they sit there and。
they get wrapped the food and they fly to mountain cliffs and they put it in。
different holes and so I'm assuming that as different scholars are writing that。
Elijah just had to spot where the Ravens were coming every day what holes they。
were gonna put in and there his food was versus a Raven lands on his arm and。
brings the food and eats it and so there a lot of times that's how God is and。
also another thing that's important God opens and closes doors as he sees fit。
God opens and closes doors as he sees fit why in the world did he leave Elijah。
away was it because he wanted him to rest maybe did he want Elijah be。
protected because Ahab was gonna go after him maybe did he want Elijah to。
spend some time in solitude as he can do the work on his character his inner life。
maybe maybe have been combination of all three but God has a plan and God opens。
and chooses and closes door as he sees fit but yet at the same time God is in。
the midst of always working in your life God is always in the midst at pulling。
you at certain points in your life taking you away from things to continue。
to allow you to be in solitude to learn the inner workings the inner character。
the inner struggles your mental health your emotional health of your life he。
did that with Moses he did that with Joseph over in jail he did that with。
David when he was a little shepherd boy tending sheep fighting bears and lions。
he did that with Jesus for 40 days 40 nights he did that when Mary and Martha。
Martha had to learn that because Martha was so busy preparing for the arrival of。
Jesus that she forgot what was important God begins to work in the quietness the。
solitude of his life and begins to transform you in the person that he。
wants you to be take a quick look at the end of 17 the last verse we started the。
story by introducing you to Elijah the Tishbit of Tishbi from Gilead at the end。
of 17 the woman said to Elijah now I know that you are a man of God and that。
the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth he is no longer Elijah the Tishbit。
of Tishbi in Gilead but he is now a man of the Lord and all his word is truth。
from the Lord God begins to work in the transformation in all of our lives to。
shape us into the person he wants us to be but he leads us on that journey and。
too often is done in what he calls us to do but it is also done in solitude as he。
begins to work in all of our hearts to help you to become that person a couple。
applications as we wrap up number one God uses people we least expect to do。
his work God uses people we least expect to do his work we don't get a chance we。
don't get any understanding of who Elijah is he appears out of the blue and。
we immediately know that his name means my God is Jehovah we also know that he。
comes from a city or a town or rural area that we're not even familiar where。
he lives and he comes out of nowhere and God uses people we least expect to do。
his work and that means a lot of times never count yourself out never disregard。
yourself of how God can use you you may not be smart enough that's okay you may。
not be talented enough that's okay you may be shy you may be a little awkward。
socially awkward at times that's okay you may have baggage in your life all of。
those things that's okay never count yourself out never count yourself out。
because of your age definitely never count yourself out because of your sex。
because men and women could do wonderful things never count yourself out because。
of your skin color never count yourself out because God uses and worse in the。
people we least expect it to number two God's methods are unique and different。
God has us on each a unique journey all of our journeys are different our life。
sometimes is a culmination of bad or good that God weaves in and now。
continue to mold you and shape you into the person that he wants you to be our。
interactions our relationship with our family our siblings our friends our。
experience within church all of that because of God's methods are unique and。
different he may call you here in Chinatown next week he may call you to。
Hong Kong he may call you in the full-time ministry pull you out full-time。
ministry all of those things his methods are unique and different sometimes we。
will never understand it sometimes it and most times it will not go according。
to plan because but at the same time number three God's direction include。
God's provision God's direction includes God's provision because as much as he。
calls you he will provide now not in the way you want him to provide probably not。
in a very smooth way not in an easy way but God's direction includes God's。
provision just like the Raven comes just like the Brooke comes God provides。
probably not in the way we expect it to but he opens and closes doors as he sees。
fit and we have to be careful those doors be watching for those doors。
praying for those doors praying for open and praying for closed doors that he。
continues to make known those doors far for guide us in everything that we do。
and we look upon our entire journey we think that we're studying for one career。
well that door suddenly closed it moves to another career I have a friend whose。
house I was just at the other day I sat down with her and her husband after 25。
years in one company she was just informed this past week she's being laid。
off with no severance after 25 years it's the only thing she's done for 25。
years since graduating from college and she's wondering Lord what are you asking。
me to do because I am NOT trained in anything else and she's asking for the。
Lord to make it clear to her what she wants her to do you may be asking that。
same thing for those who are in college right now you're a senior in college and。
all your life you followed school a direct path and now you're about to。
graduate you don't know what that path is some of you are thinking about global。
missions or returning back home to your country or wherever you are or switching。
careers or even getting married you don't know you pray for open doors you。
pray for closed doors God uses people we least expect to do his work his methods。
are unique and different his direction includes God's provisions God's。
direction includes his provision for our motivation is before whom we stand that。
you and I are here because of one thing the Lord before whom we stand that is。
our motivation our motivation informs our actions it's why we do what we do。
it's why we treat people the way we treat people because of the motivation。
that we have for the Lord and you will see as we journey through Elijah will he。
be perfect no he will not be perfect but he will get to that point that he paves。
the way for John the Baptist who paves the way for Jesus Christ who paves the。
way for the gospel that you and I believe in and on that day later on when。
Jesus stands on the transfer on the mountain for his transfiguration there。
stands Moses and there stands Elijah Elijah the tishbit of tishbi from。
Gilead is standing right there God opens and closes doors as he sees fit and uses。
us in ways we can never ever expect let's pray father thank you for the。
wonderful story of Elijah a guy who seemingly came out of nowhere who was。
kind of rough around the edges and kind of says whatever is on his mind but。
somehow you used him and you will continue to use them on this journey。
because he really believed that he stood before you the Lord before whom I stand。
I hope that is a reminder for all of us that we have that same model in our life。
we have that same motivation in our life that motivation informs us in any。
everything that we do thank you for the life of Elisha thank you for the words。
of scripture for guiding us and every single day Lord challenge us to log off。
and log on and begin another day of following after you Christ would pray。
mark thank you。
