- Hey, good morning everyone, good morning church.。
And let's turn to our scripture today.。
And if you have a Bible, turn to 2 Timothy chapter three.。
And we're going to study this chapter。
and take root in the word of God.。
But first of all, we have the verse of the week, right?。
Remember the first one is Psalm 119, 105, right?。
Can we recite it together?。
Let's do that.。
Psalm 119, 105.。
Your word is a lamb to my feet and a light for my path.。
Wonderful verse, right?。
You got that memorized?。
I'm sure you do, right?。
And then the second one, which is last week,。
which is last week's verse of the week.。
And this is from Matthew, and that's what Jesus said.。
Let's recite it together.。
You must love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
all your soul, and all your mind.。
This is the first and greatest commandment, all right?。
Got it memorized, right?。
And today I'll give you another one, all right?。
But before that, we're going to dive into chapter three。
of the book of 2 Timothy.。
And as I told you, this chapter, 17 verses long,。
there were two parts.。
The first part, which I talk about,。
and we studied last week,。
was about the dangers of neglecting the word of God,。
of the ignoring, of not knowing the word of God.。
That is chapter three, verses one to nine.。
And today we come to the second part of the chapter,。
2 Timothy chapter three, verses 10 to 17.。
And that chapter talks about the benefit。
of knowing God's word, of learning God's word.。
Speaking of the first part,。
the dangers of neglecting the word of God.。
And this is a real danger because as you remember,。
in the first nine verses, Paul is talking to his mentee,。
his disciple, his disciple pastor, Timothy.。
And he warns him that there will be a very difficult time。
in the last days.。
And I'll remind you, the last days in New Testament terms。
is the period of time, indefinite period of time。
between the first coming of Christ。
and the second coming of Christ, which lies in the future.。
So that period of time is called last days。
in the New Testament.。
And we are actually in the last chapter of human history,。
according to biblical timeline.。
So we are in the last day and Paul is not naive。
what is going on in our time.。
Remember how he characterized our time,。
dangerous and violent, and people are lovers of themselves。
and they slander others and have no self-control.。
They are haters and they hate what is good.。
And these are indeed our time, right?。
And we see right in front of our eyes,。
political violence that happened。
in the Trump Valley yesterday.。
It was terrifying, right?。
We are left speechless hearing the news。
and watching videos of such senseless violence.。
And my prayers go out to all those who were traumatized。
by this yet another incident, right, in America.。
And we're in Chicago, we are not foreign。
to those incidents, right?。
It happens almost every single day.。
The other day, I think a couple of days ago,。
I saw a news reporting.。
There was another gun violence happening。
not too far from us in Chinatown.。
And again, it's gun violence, it's senseless violence.。
What can we do, right?。
We ask the question, what can we do?。
It is easy for us to isolate ourselves, right?。
You know, in times of darkness, in times of uncertainty,。
we just wanna take care of ourselves.。
And it's very easy, it's very natural for us。
to just hide in our own comfort zone, right?。
We just do our own things, right?。
Make sure everything's under my control, right?。
Look what Paul is doing here.。
Paul in chapter three, he knows the time.。
He warns about it.。
And the last days will be very difficult.。
It's indeed very difficult for Christians, right?。
In America, we are relatively better, right?。
Because we have liberty, we have freedom, right?。
I've been meeting with some pastors online。
on a weekly basis in the past two plus years.。
Yeah, it's amazing to meet with pastors。
from the communist China.。
We have been meeting almost every single week。
in the last two weeks.。
And we started toward the end of the pandemic.。
And we're still meeting together.。
When we meet together, there are a few of them,。
they never turn on their camera, of course.。
And there are times we share, we pray for one another.。
There are times I give some instructions.。
It's just amazing how long it has lasted, right?。
Because originally we thought that we just meet together。
for three months.。
And then it continues and continues and continues。
until today, right?。
So on a weekly basis, we meet together.。
But I'm also amazed by their faith.。
I'm also amazed by their faith.。
They cannot go open with what they learn。
and what they preach.。
They are often under persecution.。
In America, we are pretty easy, right?。
We're pretty easy.。
We're quite comfortable.。
However, what Paul says remains true, right?。
Being Christian these days can be difficult, right?。
Being a solid Christian is very difficult。
because there's so much temptation out there.。
There's so much distraction out there.。
And Paul knows the time of last days.。
And he described the last day in vivid terms.。
And Paul is not naive.。
And we should not be naive, right?。
So he continues to talk about not only the dangers。
of not knowing God's word,。
but the benefits of knowing God's word, right?。
Yes, the time is difficult.。
The time is chaotic.。
We can easily be hijacked by fear and uncertainty, right?。
Talking to some of the friends and some of the people,。
we are still trying to come out of the pandemic fear, right?。
Just there's so much fear out there,。
so much uncertainty out there.。
And Paul is saying to us,。
remember this is a very difficult time, right?。
I still remember during those years in the pandemic,。
there was so much misinformation out there.。
There was so much misleading content online。
and conspiracy theories and sensationalism out there.。
And what happened today, yesterday,。
the senseless violence,。
immediately, the social media is flooded。
with all sorts of, you say,。
conspiracy theories or falsehood or something like that.。
And people just feed on those, feed on those things.。
To combat against the spread of unbelief and falsehood,。
Paul suggests two things.。
And he talked to Timothy about two things.。
First, he says, remember,。
you need to stand on the foundation of the Word of God,。
on truth, on biblical truth.。
And the first thing he says is to learn from good leaders.。
Remember the good examples in your life and follow them.。
And secondly, which is the last two verses, 16 and 17,。
he talks about the importance of scripture, Holy Scripture.。
Well, let's take a look at what Paul is talking about here.。
Verses 10 and following.。
He said, he talked about the last days,。
the difficult time in vivid terms.。
And in verse 10 and following, he said,。
but you, Timothy, certainly know what I teach。
and how I live and what my purpose in life is.。
And you know my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance.。
You know how much persecution and suffering I've endured.。
You know all about how I was persecuted。
in Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra.。
But the Lord rescued me from all of it.。
Yes, and everyone who wants to live a godly life。
in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution.。
But evil people and the imposters will flourish.。
They will deceive others and will themselves be deceived.。
This is a dangerous time, right?。
But Paul is reminding Timothy,。
you have great example in front of you,。
and I am one of them.。
And Paul is reminding Timothy, you know my faith, right?。
You know my patience, you have learned from me.。
I'm not just doing empty talks.。
I live the faith, I walk the faith, and you have seen it.。
Right, because Timothy has been following Paul。
in many different missionary journeys.。
You can check from the book of Acts, right?。
And Timothy follow Paul to different mission fields。
and different cities in the Roman world。
and preach the gospel.。
And it was very, very difficult。
because the Jews were after him。
and other people opposing to the gospel.。
And Paul endured all of this.。
You know, isn't it nice we have great examples。
of faithful followers of Christ in our life, right?。
Now I want you to do one thing, think about it.。
Are there any good examples。
of faithful Christians in your life?。
Are there any?。
You can think of something, some names, right?。
And you can think of some faces, right?。
And Paul is older and wiser and more experienced。
than Timothy, and Paul urges Timothy,。
follow my example, right?。
See my example.。
I myself have benefited so much。
from great mentors in my life.。
Remember, oh boy, it was mid-90s.。
It was mid-90s, I was in seminary.。
And I was required to do internship。
when I was studying in a seminary.。
And part of the credit hour has to be internship。
at a local church.。
And I want to tell you honestly,。
you know, in North America,。
the design for seminarians internship。
is actually not quite well designed, okay?。
All right, this is a trade secret, right?。
You know, in the MDiv program, for example,。
yes, you're required to do maybe two terms of internship,。
but it's not very solidly or well-crafted program.。
Field education, so-called, it's not really the priority.。
Most of the priority we spent our time in MDiv。
was in the classrooms, right?。
With the books, right?。
And most of the internship programs,。
yes, they're required, but the evaluation is very loose.。
Usually it's just pass, not pass.。
Pass, fail, right?。
I mean, how easy for you to pass a class, right?。
You just submit something, right?。
Internship report, you know, you can just make it up, right?。
You make it up and submit it,。
and the teacher or the professor will grade as pass, right?。
So it was very, very easy, right?。
And think about it, it's quite sad, you know?。
It's quite sad.。
You know, many of the students that I know。
did not learn so much from field education, right?。
They might learn well with exams and papers.。
They might do well in their homework.。
However, dealing with people on the field, right?。
You know, we're doing church ministry, right?。
Church ministry, the essence is people, right?。
How to read people, how to understand people,。
how to relate to people,。
so often is very, very low in priority.。
Whether you can learn something solid from the field,。
from field education or internship,。
often the seminary student is the only one。
who is responsible, right?。
If he is smart enough, if he is wise enough,。
he will make it happen.。
If he's not so quick to learn the field education,。
then it's gonna hurt, right?。
It's gonna hurt.。
Notice what Paul says here.。
The emphasis is the personal pronouns, right?。
You know, not you know the faith,。
you know my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance, right?。
In the same way, speaking to all of us as Christians, right?。
We come to the church often with a mentality。
that is not biblical.。
We come to church often with a mentality。
of being a consumer, being just passive audience, right?。
We come here, beautiful music, right?。
Beautiful environment, you know, nice coffee we have,。
nice snack we have, and refreshment.。
The church is nice because, you know,。
you have great service or something like that.。
I get what I really want, and when people let us down,。
you know, church are full of broken people, right?。
Should I remind you that, right?。
We're all broken.。
The pastors are broken.。
The leaders are broken.。
The laymen are broken.。
Everyone is broken.。
Everyone is sinner, and we all need Christ, right?。
But we come in with a consumer,。
well, religious consumer kind of mentality.。
We will be disappointed.。
We can always be disappointed.。
You know, I can tell you from my experience,。
I'm often disappointed by other people,。
or even I'm disappointed by myself, right?。
And in some sense, with that kind of consumer mentality,。
we feel dissatisfied, right?。
Because we don't receive good service,。
like in the restaurant, right?。
You go to a restaurant, you don't get very good service。
from waiter or waitress, right?。
You feel upset, right?。
Feel upset, you feel being used,。
because you come in with the consumer,。
you know, customer mentality, right?。
Lousy waiter, lousy food and poor service, bad quality,。
and then give you one star, right?。
Write about it in your review, right?。
But that sort of mentality, religious consumerism,。
is unbiblical, right?。
It's in fact anti-biblical, right?。
On verse 14 and following, Paul said,。
"But you must remain faithful。
"to the things that you have been taught.。
"You know they are true,。
"for you know you can trust those who taught you.。
"You have been taught the Holy Scriptures from childhood,。
"and they have given you the wisdom to receive salvation。
"that comes by trusting in Christ Jesus."。
Now, Paul is encouraging Timothy to look beyond himself.。
Remember the first part, he said,。
"Look to me, my patience, my teaching, and my faith,"。
right, and follow it.。
And then Paul now is encouraging Timothy。
to persevere in difficult times.。
And he said, "Remember the Scripture you have been taught."。
And also recall something very, very important.。
Paul says to Timothy,。
"You have been taught the Bible from childhood," right?。
Since he was a little kid, since he was a baby.。
And Timothy, as we know from the book of Acts。
or from other Scriptures,。
he has a godly mother and godly grandmother, right?。
Now, we're reading chapter three of 2 Timothy,。
but early on in the first chapter,。
Paul actually mentioned the name。
of Timothy's mother and grandmother.。
In chapter one of the same letter, same book,。
Paul opens with these words,。
"I remember, Timothy, your genuine faith,。
"for you share the faith that first filled。
"your grandmother, Lois, and your mother, Eunice.。
"And I know that the same faith continues strong in you."。
What is the name of Timothy's mother?。
Lois, right?。
And his grandmother is Eunice.。
So in that sense,。
Timothy is the third generation Christian, right?。
Paul is asking Timothy in this difficult time,。
"Look to those whom you can learn,"。
including Paul, the mentor himself,。
and also his mother and his grandmother.。
We call the examples you have seen from them, right?。
In other words,。
"Fix your eyes upon your spiritual mentors,。
"father, spiritual father, so-called spiritual mothers."。
Now, as a parent, this is what I'm trying to do, right?。
You know, I'm a father, and of course, I'm broken,。
and I am weak, I have many shortcomings.。
But one thing I wanna do is that,。
one thing I don't do at home is that。
I never push faith down my children's throats.。
I just never did it, you know?。
I never did it.。
I never preached to them.。
I remember just one time I preached to Rachel.。
Yeah, she was upset, and she refused to go to sleep.。
So I was kinda angry, right?。
So I stormed into her room, right?。
She was about maybe 10 months old, 11 months old.。
And I stormed into her room,。
and I preached a five-minute sermon.。
I said, "You cannot be selfish, okay?。
"Because we have to go to bed, okay?。
"We have to go to sleep, and you have to go to sleep."。
Something like that, I mentioned the name of Jesus,。
or something like that, right?。
But because I just went out, you know?。
I was in lack of sleep, you know?。
Come on, what do you want, right?。
So that was only one time I really just preached to her,。
right, preached to my child.。
But most of the time, I just try to live authentically。
as a man of faith.。
And I want to let them know I need grace as well.。
I need Christ to strengthen me.。
I need the Word of God, right?。
Indeed, I think that's the most important mission。
we have as Christian parents, right?。
To live in front of the eyes of my children.。
Let them know we are authentic followers of Christ.。
We are not perfect, but we are authentic.。
And indeed, as a Christian, we are called。
to live a Godly life so that our life。
can inspire other people.。
We can inspire other people,。
the building of the grace of God.。
And for ourselves, we must find great examples to follow.。
Remember, I asked you earlier, think of faces,。
think of names in your life.。
God, put those people in your life.。
Maybe a mentor, maybe a pastor, maybe a brother and sisters,。
maybe other followers of Christ.。
They have names, they have faces.。
And these are great examples that we can follow。
and encourage us to go on in the truth.。
And I'm sure in every church that emphasize。
the gospel truth, the biblical teaching,。
you will find good examples to follow, right?。
If you are tentative, if you look around,。
if you observe, you know there has to be。
a few good examples.。
Of course, in the church, there are many broken examples.。
But if you are attentive to learn and to listen to stories,。
to learn about the lives of people,。
you will find great people and great example to follow.。
I told you about internship in the mid-90s in my life.。
When I was a young intern in the church,。
I tried to pour out my heart into the community。
and try to serve the community.。
And I have met many, many good people, good mentors,。
and godly and wise and well-equipped in the word of God.。
And I remember one of them is the Sydney pastor。
at that point.。
You know, I was young and as you know me,。
you know, I'm quite rebellious, right?。
I like to think outside the box.。
I don't like to do things out of the box.。
I don't like policies.。
I don't like regulations, you know.。
I don't like guidelines.。
I'm quite rebellious.。
I don't like to follow rules.。
And sometimes I create my own rules.。
I like to try different things.。
But, you know, I meet with this pastor,。
mentor on a regular basis.。
And there was not much I remember what he preached.。
Whatever he taught or whatever great sermons he has preached,。
you know, I just don't remember.。
I remember nothing.。
But I remember I observe his life.。
How he deals with challenges and oppositions in the church.。
How he deal with all those with grace, with prayers,。
with humors, with joy.。
I learn so much from him.。
And today we're still good friends.。
We are lifelong good friends.。
Sometimes he call on me and sometimes I call on him.。
And he will check on me and, you know, we'll talk, right?。
But one time I bum into him and his wife in Jerusalem.。
I was studying in Jerusalem and just in the hotel,。
I didn't know, oh, you are here too.。
And we had a great time together。
because he was on a pastoral tour。
or a pastoral Israel trip to learn, right?。
And I was there to learn as well.。
And we were in the hotel lobby.。
We just talked until 2 a.m.。
Mentors like this, you know, we all need these people.。
And that's how we learn, right?。
You can ace in all your tests and all your exams,。
but you need the people skills.。
You need to learn from good examples, right?。
And in the church, in our Christian growth,。
it is the same way, isn't it, right?。
In order for us to grow spiritually,。
emotionally, holistically, we need other examples.。
And Paul is trying to encourage the young mentee, Timothy,。
not just to study scripture,。
but before he talks about studying scripture。
in verses 16 to 17, he talks about three examples,。
himself, Paul himself, and Lois, his mother,。
Eunice, his grandmother.。
And there are many, many benefits of learning。
from just real life example, right?。
And we are encouraged to continue in our faith.。
So we come to the last paragraph of this wonderful chapter,。
chapter three, verses 16 to 17, but we don't have time,。
but we'll continue next week。
to talk about these two wonderful verses.。
And this becomes the verse of the week,。
chapter three, verses 16 to 17, all right?。
Let's recite it together to conclude our service.。
All scripture is breathed out by God。
and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction,。
and for training in righteousness,。
that the man of God may be complete,。
equipped for every good work, 2 Timothy 3, 16 to 17.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we give thanks for all the great examples。
that we have in our life.。
Thank you for placing these people in our life journey。
so that we can learn a thing or two.。
In this lifelong faith journey of following you,。
we once again ask you to strengthen our faith。
so that we can take root, deep root in the Word,。
in the truth of the Bible.。
Help us to meditate on your Word,。
to study your Word, to dig deeper and deeper。
so that our lives will be on the firm foundation。
that will never move.。
Help us to be wise, wise in your Word, wise in our life.。
Again, thank you for all the teachers,。
all the great examples that we can follow in our lives.。
Help us to meditate upon them as well,。
how they deal with faith,。
how they deal with difficult times,。
how they deal with challenges and crises,。
how they learn wisdom, how they impart wisdom on us。
so that we will continue to follow you.。
Thank you for calling your people。
to be part of your kingdom, to be your sons and daughters.。
Thank you for your grace in Christ and pray.。
All right, God bless you.。
I know it's raining really, really hard out there, right?。
It was, no?。
All right, it's a difficult day to come here.。
And thank you for coming.。
God bless you and see you next week.。
