All right, good morning.。
Hello everybody.。
God is good.。
And all the time.。
Amen.。
I didn't know if I was going to have to explain that.。
Okay, awesome.。
Sweet.。
So, I want to thank God and I want to thank you guys for having me here, allowing me the。
opportunity to come before you and just share a message, bring you God's word.。
Today, we'll be in James chapter 1, starting from verse 19 through 27.。
I listened to the live stream last week and I was excited to see that Caleb did James。
1 because I love the book of James and I figured this is great.。
I can continue on this and pick up on where he left off.。
So, thank you Caleb for your word last week.。
I was deeply encouraged by that.。
Before we get into the word, I'll ask if you guys would just pray with me real quick.。
Holy Father, our Lord, our God, thank you.。
Thank you for your faithfulness.。
Thank you that you are a good father.。
Thank you that you loved us enough to send your son to die in our place, that we might。
have hope in this world, that we would have peace, that we would have comfort in the midst。
of a world that is full of uncomforting things.。
We thank you for waking us all up this morning, acknowledge that not everyone did.。
We thank you for the life that you give us.。
We thank you that in you we live, breathe, and have our being.。
So thank you God for this life and the eternal life and hope we have in your son, Jesus Christ.。
I pray that you would open our hearts, that we would receive your word, that we would。
respond to your word in such a way that Jesus Christ would be glorified in and through our。
lives.。
So be with us today, teach us today that it wouldn't just be my words, but that it would。
be your words simply spoken through me and to me.。
And so all these things I pray in the precious name of Jesus Christ.。
Amen.。
Okay, so as I said, I'll be in James chapter one, starting from verse 19 through the end。
of the chapter.。
It says this, "Know this, my beloved brothers, let every person be quick to hear, slow to。
speak, slow to anger.。
For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God.。
For put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word,。
which is able to save your souls.。
But be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.。
For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently。
at his natural face in a mirror.。
For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like.。
But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres being no。
hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing.。
If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart,。
this person's religion is worthless.。
Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit widows and。
orphans in their affliction and to keep oneself unstained from the world."。
So brothers and sisters, today I want to focus in on this passage and specifically the verses。
in the middle, 22 through 25.。
And by God's grace, do the best I can to draw out what it means and what it would look like。
for us to become doers of the word of God.。
So I mentioned I was excited about Caleb preaching James because the letter of James is one of。
my favorite books in the Bible because of the impact it's had on me, my faith journey,。
my walk with Christ, and because the book itself is just so full of practical wisdom。
for how to live out our Christian lives.。
There's a lot of really good allusions to the Psalms, to the Proverbs, even to the teachings。
of Jesus that James uses in his writing.。
And we'll focus on some of that today.。
But from the writings of the four gospels, we know that James was a brother of this dude。
named Jesus who maybe you've heard of him.。
It was kind of a big deal a few thousand years ago.。
Of course you guys have heard of Jesus.。
But the interesting thing about James is that even though he was Jesus' own brother, he。
didn't believe in him.。
Initially he doubted the things that Jesus taught, the things that Jesus did.。
And there's a passage in the Gospel of Mark that tells us Jesus' family actually thought。
and said that he was out of his mind for the things that he was doing, having all these。
people come to the house and hear him preach and teach.。
So they thought he was out of his mind.。
His brothers doubted him.。
But eventually something happens to James following the crucifixion and the burial of。
Jesus that radically changes his outlook on Jesus.。
He goes from a denier, a skeptic, into a believer, a denier to a follower, a detractor to a leader。
of the early church.。
Whatever it was that happened, whatever it was that transformed James, it was so convincing。
that he was even willing to die for his newfound belief in his brother, the Lord Jesus.。
And we know this because according to Jewish historian Josephus and a few other early church。
historians, James was martyred for his faith, for not denying faith in Christ.。
When I think about this, you know, going from the brother of Jesus who doesn't believe in。
Jesus to a believer, a leader in the early church and even a martyr for the faith, I。
can't help but think that such a drastic transformation to me is one of the most compelling pieces。
of evidence for the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
You look at James' transformation, you look at Paul's transformation.。
What could cause someone to change so drastically?。
And I've heard it put this way, so I want to ask you guys, how many of you have siblings。
in here, brothers or sisters?。
Okay, obviously I know you guys do.。
So I'm going to point you out.。
Rachel, think about this now.。
What would it take for you to be convinced that Nathan is the son of God?。
No way, right?。
Now we're talking about Jesus here, like, you know, I'm sure James grew up with him。
as a brother and I'm sure as a brother he wondered, like, why doesn't Jesus ever get。
in trouble with, you know, mom and dad?。
He's such a goody two-shoes.。
But still, he didn't believe he was the Messiah.。
He didn't believe he was God.。
But something so drastic happened, he began to believe and would even die for this belief。
that Jesus truly was God in the flesh.。
And truly, what else besides seeing a man once dead, buried in the tomb for three days,。
alive in front of your very eyes, bearing the marks of crucifixion, what else could。
cause such a drastic transformation in a person?。
So you see, James' encounter with the living, resurrected, eternal word of God changed James.。
He was a man who once only heard the teachings of Jesus and doubted them to a man who believed。
the words and acted upon them.。
In the same way, James in this passage is encouraging his audience, his audience then。
and his audience today, encouraging us to not only hear the word of God, to also respond。
to it.。
So that's what I will be encouraging for all of us today.。
So I mentioned that James has a lot of allusion to other passages of Scripture, to Jesus'。
own teaching, and Jesus himself taught this point about being a doer and not a hearer.。
At the end of the Sermon on the Mount, one of his most well-known, powerful sermons,。
which 2,000 years later, still to this day is shaping the ethics and morality of our。
world.。
And at the end of this massive sermon, you know, Matthew chapter 5 through 7, he ends,。
he gives an audience this warning.。
He says this, "Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of heaven,。
but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.。
On that day, many will say to me, 'Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast。
out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name?'。
And then will I declare to them, 'I never knew you.。
Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.'。
Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who。
built his house on the rock.。
And the rain fell and the floods came and the winds blew and beat on the house, but。
it did not fall because it had been founded on the rock.。
And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish。
man who built his house on the sand.。
And the rain fell and the floods came and the winds blew and beat against the house。
and it fell.。
And great was the fall of it."。
You can hear how James is echoing the words of Jesus, hearing and doing.。
So the point that he's making is pretty clear.。
Just because you hear the words of Jesus doesn't mean you are truly a disciple of Jesus.。
Just because you attend church regularly or listen to sermon clips and podcasts doesn't。
really mean you truly know and are known by Jesus.。
There's more to this faith of ours than hearing the word.。
Let's look, for example, at the disciple who betrayed our Lord.。
Judas heard just about as much of Jesus' teaching as anyone else.。
He heard more of it than we ever have.。
But how much good did that do Judas just to hear the teachings of Christ?。
It didn't really do him a lot of good because, as James puts it, he didn't receive the implanted。
word with meekness.。
Judas was no doer of the word.。
Although he heard it, he was not moved by it.。
He experienced no repentance, no change.。
We can see that he still had this love of money that was strong enough to cause him。
to betray his brother, to betray his rabbi, his Lord for 30 pieces of silver.。
There was no obedience flowing from Judas' heart, no love of God that would cause him。
to follow God.。
And James says that such people are only deceiving themselves.。
And as easy as it is for us to look back and kind of single out Judas, you know, and pick。
on Judas, I think it's pretty easy for us to fall into the same deception.。
How easy is it for us to go to church on Sunday, get a good word in, praise God, feel really。
good about ourselves, and then we go back on Monday to a week of inaction or indifference。
to the things that we were so encouraged about the day before.。
How often do we quench the Holy Spirit and stop the word from truly penetrating our hearts。
in such a way that it then plays out in our lives?。
It's pretty easy to hear a sermon about controlling our tongue and then leave and find ourselves。
gossiping or slandering somebody or speaking harshly to somebody.。
It's pretty easy to hear a sermon on, let's say, James chapter 1, be slow to anger, and。
on the way home, driving through traffic, someone cuts us off, and then we quickly find。
ourselves angry.。
And I speak from experience.。
My wife is always reminding me about how I drive.。
So it's easy for us to find ourselves hearing these things, sermons and scriptures that。
address the hate in our heart, the pride in our heart, love of money, love of the things。
of the world, and by the end of it, feel very motivated, very encouraged.。
But do we ever actually experience any change beyond that emotion, beyond that feeling and。
that agreeing?。
A lot of times we hear these sermons and we read the scriptures and we agree wholeheartedly,。
"Yes, that's true.。
Yes, that's so good.。
I should make that change in my life."。
And then two, three, four weeks later, do we actually make that change?。
And even as I'm speaking, I'm feeling convicted because the other day I found an old notebook。
of mine.。
It has pages and pages full of sermon notes for the past three years, and I thought to。
myself, "When is the last time I even reviewed this?。
And when's the last time I actually wrote sermon notes on Sunday and then a week, two。
weeks later, went back and checked in to make sure I was still doing those things?"。
So the question I'm asking is, do we simply hear or do we also do?。
And this topic, this scripture, another reason I love James so much is because I can attest。
to this kind of lifestyle very personally.。
Just telling you a little bit about myself, for a majority, 20 plus years of my life,。
I was nothing more than a half-hearted, lukewarm hearer of the word.。
You see, even though I grew up going to church, I would go to church on Sundays, youth group。
on Wednesdays, prayer night on Fridays, it didn't really make a difference to me.。
You see, my dad is a pastor.。
I was hearing the word constantly, if not daily, and yet it never impacted my heart.。
I had a lot of knowledge of God in my head, probably not as much as I thought I did, but。
it didn't actually affect my heart.。
It didn't really cause any change.。
So by the time I went to college, I was living in complete rebellion against God.。
I was a cheater, a liar, a thief, a drunkard.。
I tell people this, if you go to the book of Galatians chapter five, there's this beautiful。
list of the fruit of the spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, goodness, kindness, faithfulness,。
gentleness, self-control.。
That was not who I was.。
If you go a few verses back, Paul gives you another list, and he calls it the deeds or。
the works of the flesh, envy, dissension, rivalry, drunkenness, immorality.。
If you read through that list, just about every single one of those describes my life.。
That's who I was.。
That's how I was.。
And the saddest part of that is that if you would have asked me at that time in my life。
when I lived like that, "Are you a Christian?"。
I would have been able to look you dead in the face, completely serious, and tell you,。
"Of course I'm a Christian.。
Of course I'm a Christian.。
I grew up going to church.。
My dad's a pastor.。
I got baptized when I was eight.。
John 3:16, "For God so loved the world."。
I know that one.。
Because of those things, because I heard those things, I was so self-deceived, as James describes.。
I thought I was saved.。
And it wasn't until I was about 22 years old that God opened my eyes and showed me just。
how deceived, just how lost I had been all my life.。
Because there's more to being a disciple, being a follower of Christ, than hearing His。
Word.。
There's even more to it than simply agreeing with His Word.。
There's another piece to it where you live out His Word, where you humbly submit to His。
Word and follow His Word.。
There's another passage in James that's not part of this section, but I recall reading。
Scripture when I finally decided, "Okay, my life is like totally off here.。
I need to get into God's Word and learn where I went so wrong."。
As I'm reading through James, he says something along the lines of, "You believe.。
Good for you.。
God is one.。
Even the demons believe and they shudder."。
And that really hit me because there's a difference in hearing and believing the Word of God and。
doing and responding in humility to the Word of God.。
And so my life is a great example of somebody who was self-deceived.。
Never in my entire life did I have any desire to be anything more than a hearer of the Word.。
But in light of all that Christ had done for me at the cross, how could I not respond to。
the gospel?。
How could I not be forever changed, transformed from the inside out?。
Hearing His Word week in and week out, failing to respond to it, neglecting to put it into。
action, it's as foolish, James says, as looking in a mirror intently, really staring, analyzing。
yourself in a mirror, and then walking away and forgetting what you look like.。
And I'm glad that I have my wife, Kiamia, to help me with this kind of thing because。
I'm very forgetful and I have like little to zero fashion sense.。
So if I look in a mirror to decide, "Does this outfit look good?。
Does this match with this?"。
I look in the mirror.。
I think it looks good, but maybe I go and I change and I put something else on, forgetting。
how the outfit matched.。
If it wasn't for my wife, I would be walking around Moody's campus looking ridiculous because。
I just, I just, I can't do it.。
So I thank God.。
Thank you, Kiamia.。
But that's what it's like.。
It's foolish.。
If you, let's say you went out to eat, you know, you went out to dinner with some very。
important people in your family, in your job, and you had the best salad of your life, and。
you went to the bathroom and you looked in the mirror and you realized, "How long have。
I had this piece of lettuce stuck between my teeth?。
Have they all seen me with this lettuce in my teeth?。
Why did no one tell me?"。
And then you walk out of the bathroom, but you don't remove the lettuce.。
You just forget it's there.。
You look silly.。
You look foolish.。
In the same way, James is saying it's foolish for us to be little more than hearers of the。
Word.。
So again, my encouragement is that we would not simply and solely be hearers of the Word。
of God.。
Let us become doers.。
Let us be moved like James to respond to the Word of God, to turn from whatever sin may。
be hindering our walk in relationship with Christ.。
Let's apply the things that we're learning.。
I know you guys here are learning some really good things.。
I've listened to the sermons.。
I've been here before.。
I know Pastor Mark.。
He's a man who loves the Lord.。
He loves you guys.。
He loves the Word of God.。
So I know you guys are getting really good teaching.。
Let's respond to it.。
Let's act in response to the teaching, being not just hearers, but hearers and doers of。
the Word of God.。
When we become doers of the Word, when we put the principles of God into practice, we。
show that our profession of faith is genuine, and we show ourselves to not be deceived.。
So what would it look like?。
What does it look like to be a doer and not just a hearer of the Word?。
Thankfully James in his practicality throughout his letter, he gives us a few examples that。
we can go off of.。
And so he says this, "If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue。
but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless.。
Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and。
widows in their affliction, to keep oneself unstained from the world."。
So what James is saying is that it's pointless, it's worthless to think that you're religious,。
to think you're something, to think you're right with God and you're so spiritual and。
you're so mature, or to tell people that and only be a hearer of the Word, not backing。
it up with action.。
It's one thing to talk the talk, it's another thing to walk the walk.。
And if you look in the Gospels, this is what Jesus is constantly confronting the Pharisees。
on.。
You know, they have so much knowledge of the Word of God, and he'll ask them, "Have you。
not read?。
Did you not know?"。
He's being rhetorical because if there's anyone who had read the Word of God, who knew what。
the Word of God said, it was the scribes, it was the Pharisees, the teachers of the。
law, the experts.。
But even though they knew it, they chose not to do it.。
They chose to do their own thing, follow their own tradition.。
And so Jesus is constantly critiquing them.。
So one of the examples James gives is controlling our tongues, exercising wisdom in what we。
choose to say and what we choose not to say.。
If we can't keep ourselves from slandering others, gossiping, crude, inappropriate jokes,。
you know, everywhere we go, we're cussing here and there.。
One, it affects our witness, our testimony to the world that we're disciples of Christ.。
And so there, you know, I can tell you how much of a Christian I am, and I want to tell。
you about Jesus and how much he's changed me, but at the same time, I'm going to tell。
you some inappropriate jokes or gossip about this other person that we know or, you know,。
use foul language.。
It's pointless.。
It's worthless, James says.。
All true religion, all true faith in Christ is marked by a changed heart, a heart that。
responds to the word of God with love and with obedience, a heart that is moved to care。
about the things that God cares about.。
And as you read through Scripture, I mean, from the beginning, Genesis to Revelation,。
you see clearly that one of the things that God cares about is helping the helpless, being。
a defender of the defenseless, a father to the fatherless.。
And so showing compassion on those on the margins of society is one of the things that。
God cares about.。
And as those who want to hear God's word and respond to God's word, James is saying that。
we also should care about those like orphans, like widows, who are oftentimes on the margins。
of society.。
James also tells us that true religion is marked by a heart moved to repentance, a turning。
away from and separating oneself from sin, beginning to hate the things that God hates,。
controlling the tongue, helping the helpless, avoiding the wicked ways of the world.。
Three really great examples James gives, but there's so much more to being a doer of the。
word than just those three examples.。
Because in general, being a doer of the word is a heart posture of humility that says to。
God, "I hear your word and I agree, I believe your word, help me to respond, help me to。
apply this to my life, help me to respond to the conviction of the Holy Spirit by agreeing。
with you and doing the things that you want me to do, turning from the things that you。
want me to turn from."。
That is what it means to be a hearer of the word, is responding in such a way to the word。
of God, whether it's in your private time reading scripture, whether it's a sermon you。
heard, a podcast you heard, applying to the lessons and principles in such a way that。
Jesus Christ is glorified in the life you live.。
That's what it means to be a hearer and a doer of the word of God.。
So again, over and over and over again, I say this, I encourage you and I challenge。
you guys with two things here that we can evaluate for ourselves in being doers and。
hearers of the word.。
The first thing is this, ask yourself and be honest with yourself, how have I done this。
past month, the past two weeks with responding to the word of God, whether it was a sermon。
you heard here, a podcast clip, your own personal devotion time, scripture reading, how have。
I done in responding to what God was teaching me in that word?。
How have I responded?。
Did I simply hear it?。
Did I simply read it?。
Did it sound good to me?。
Did I just acknowledge the truthfulness that was in the word?。
Did I just gain knowledge about Jesus and his will for my life or did I act upon that。
knowledge?。
Did I step in alignment with the will of God for my life?。
Was I a doer?。
Did I act upon this word?。
Did I put any points of application into practice in my life?。
I'm sure you guys know all about, you know, the end of a sermon, three points of practical。
application.。
I told you I have a notebook full of them and I don't always go back and look at them。
and evaluate with myself or with others how I'm doing in applying those to my life and。
so that's my first encouragement is to just evaluate, you know, how have I been doing,。
putting God's word into practice in my life?。
Have I been humble in responding to the Holy Spirit's conviction?。
Did I follow the ways in which God prompted me to be more like his son and less like the。
world?。
And get honest, get brutally honest with yourself as you ask the question and regardless of。
how pretty the answer is or isn't, let's resolve and dedicate ourselves to be doers of the。
word and not just hearers.。
Again, I know personally how easy it is to live a life only being a hearer and being。
content with that.。
Let's challenge ourselves to be hearers and doers.。
And the second thing I ask, the second encouragement and the challenge is this, simply because。
I don't know a lot of you guys very well, I do know some of you, but from personal experience。
I know that you can never really be too sure, I ask this question.。
To everyone here, have you ever truly responded to the word of God?。
Have you ever truly been a doer of the word or are you merely a hearer?。
Church, please listen to me.。
Being a hearer, only hearing the word of God, it's possible that you could fool other people。
and have them thinking, "Man, you know, look at George.。
He sure knows his Bible and he really gets into the worship and he raises his hands and。
yeah, that's a great Christian there."。
But if I'm only a hearer, it doesn't matter what I know about God or what I can tell you。
about God if I don't act upon that.。
And so the truth of the matter is that there will be many, many hearers of the word of。
God in hell.。
There will be many church attenders in hell, many Bible memorizers, 10% tithers, worship。
leaders, pastors, kids, pastors in hell because not everyone who calls out, "Lord, Lord,"。
is truly doing the will of God.。
And what does Scripture teach us the will of God is to believe in his son, to trust。
in Jesus, to repent of our sin and turn to him.。
James puts it this way, "Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness," that。
is repent, look at the sin in your heart, respond to the conviction that God is stirring。
up within you about the things in your life you know are wrong and turn from those sins.。
And then James says to do this, "Receive with meekness," that's to receive with humility。
the implanted word which is able to save your soul.。
And what is that?。
But the gospel of Jesus Christ, the gospel of grace that you're a sinner and there's。
nothing you can do to save yourself.。
So Christ did it all for you.。
He lived the perfect life.。
He truly was the son of God despite what his brothers might have at one time thought.。
And being the son of God, he went to the cross humbly, willingly, dying on the cross, paying。
the price of your sins, the price you couldn't pay so that by believing in him, trusting。
in him, turning from the world, turning from sin, turning to him, you would be saved, you。
would have a promise of eternal life.。
This is the word of God.。
This is the implanted word which when received with meekness and humility is able to save。
our souls.。
So again, in light of this, the question that stands is, are you, am I, are we doers of。
the word of God or are we hearers only?。
The last thought I want to leave you guys with is again, looking back to the example。
of James and even the example of Paul, if you're familiar with his transformation, their。
lives were undeniably radically impacted by the grace of God once they believed in the。
Lord Jesus Christ.。
And I'm not saying that all of us will have such a drastic conversion experience as Saul,。
as Paul.。
I personally don't know anybody who walked around blind for three days with scales on。
their face, but spiritually speaking, we will have that transformation because it's the。
same Holy Spirit that changed James' mind, the same Holy Spirit that changed Paul's mind.。
Scripture even says the same Holy Spirit which raised Christ from the dead lives inside of。
us and will cause transformation inside of us so that we can go from those who only hear。
the word and are unaffected at the core of our being to those who hear the word and humbly。
receive it and respond to it in our lives.。
James and Paul, their lives bore fruit which testified to the fact that they were not merely。
hearers of God's word but doers who acted and responded upon it.。
So the only answer, the only question that I can really leave you with is this, are you。
a doer of the word of God?。
Amen?。
Amen.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
