Alright, today we're going to work through the Apostle's Creed and we come to the third。
section of the Creed.。
As I said, this is a road map of what Christianity is all about.。
If you've ever been wondering, okay, what Christians should believe and what the Bible。
says about the Christian faith, this is a good road map.。
Twelve articles, twelve statements, English and Chinese I'm giving to you.。
And we have talked about I believe in God, the God who exists.。
We don't believe in the existence of God.。
That's not what the church is all about.。
That's not what the Bible is all about.。
It's about the God who exists and the God who relates to us, God who loves us, God who。
cares for us.。
Alright, so we believe in God, that's the first article.。
And then the second section is about Jesus Christ.。
There's a whole second section about what He did in history, what He did in our lives,。
right, to save us from sin.。
And He is now reigning, seated at the right hand of the Father.。
And then the third section, the yellow section, we have been working through since last Sunday.。
And we believe in the Holy Spirit, the triune God being with us.。
And then today we're going to work through the other two articles, the Holy Universal。
Church and then I believe in the Communion of Saints.。
Very interesting statement, Holy Universal Church.。
Now if you know a little bit about Latin, behind the word universal, it was Catholic.。
So there are different translations of the Apostles' Creed that says, "I believe in the。
Holy Catholic Church."。
Now Catholic does not mean Roman Catholicism, does not mean the Roman Catholic Church.。
Catholic is an old word.。
It means universal.。
It means worldwide.。
It means there is something about the Church, God's community, that extends beyond time。
and generation and geography.。
And we are all bound together as one family, one Church, capital C, Church.。
Holy Catholic Church, Universal Church, right?。
I wonder if you have a thought about there is a special relationship between Christians,。
between those who believe in God, those who profess the name of Jesus.。
There is something special connection about, you know, believers in Christ.。
Two years ago when the pandemic began, we, you know, full scale, we go online.。
And I find it very interesting and largely inspiring to be able to connect with a lot。
of different people around the world through the online streaming and online Zoom meeting。
and all that stuff.。
As you know, our YouTube channel was very small.。
It was under 1,000 subscribers.。
And because of the pandemic, now we have, what's the newest number?。
13K?。
Something like that.。
Yeah.。
So, we have a lot of connections with other people, you know, from Asia, from West Coast。
and East Coast, even from UK.。
I just got to know someone from UK a couple of weeks ago, and she was attending my class。
online.。
And then we were connecting and I understand more about her career, what she has been doing。
and she understands more about our church.。
In any case, I think there's a special connection that we have as brothers and sisters.。
The most common titles, most common labels for believers in the Bible from Old Testament。
to the New Testament is brothers and sisters, family, right?。
And that's what this article is all about.。
I believe in the Holy Universal Church.。
And I think one of the passages that talks about the unity of believers that extends。
beyond time and geography is Psalm 133.。
Psalm 133.。
Let's read verse 1.。
Psalm 133.。
A song of essence of David.。
How good and pleasant it is when brothers, of course, including sisters, living together。
in unity, dwelling together in unity.。
There is something good about believers getting ready and gathering together, like what we。
do today, singing together, worshipping God together, praying together, caring for one。
another, like what we do in the afternoon.。
We have the family gathering, the general assembly to take care of some of the businesses。
and some of the things that are happening in the church.。
And we got a photo booth back there.。
Thanks to the team who put this up and we can take some pictures for memories.。
You know, it's all about the family and brothers and sisters living together, dwelling together.。
That is something good in the sight of God.。
When God sees God's people getting ready, getting together to worship, to have fellowship。
together, there is something good about just the gathering.。
Well, according to the words of Moses in Deuteronomy, he says there are three times in a year that。
the people of God, especially their representatives, the males, back in the ancient society, it。
was the male dominant or patriarchal society.。
Of course, that includes the whole family, right?。
But the head of the family is the patriarch, is the male.。
So three times in a year, all your males should appear before the Lord your God in the place。
where He chooses.。
There were three times, the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is in our calendar, April or。
May, the Passover, the Good Friday and Easter season.。
That's the first time.。
Second time, 49 days, seven weeks later, the Feast of the Weeks, the Pentecost.。
About May or June, they need to go to Jerusalem again.。
And then the third time is the Feast of Sukkot, the Tabernacle, the Booths.。
It was about the fourth time, September or October.。
They shall appear before the Lord to worship, to take the pilgrimage from where they live。
to the place God has chosen, which is Jerusalem.。
And they shall not appear before the Lord empty-handed because they are coming to worship.。
Three times in a year.。
Now you can imagine in the old days when you had no iPhones, no GPS, no cars, and nothing。
like that.。
If you live in Galilee, which is in the north, you see the little freshwater lake up in the。
north where the beginning point of the arrow is.。
If you live there, you have to travel three times a year to Jerusalem.。
That is about 90 miles of distance.。
In the old days, the average walking speed of a human, guess what it is?。
How many miles per hour can you walk?。
Average?。
Three, right?。
Yeah.。
Well, give or take two or three, right?。
Two or three miles per hour.。
And you have to walk 90 miles.。
How many days would that take?。
That is about, if I'm right, about, I'm math, five to six days.。
Eight hours a day you just keep walking, right?。
Keep walking and keep walking until you reach your destination, Jerusalem.。
It takes about six or even seven days.。
And think about how much preparation one has to make to worship God to come to Jerusalem,。
right?。
It takes intentional sacrifice of time and energy and all this, of tons of preparation。
to be in the presence of God, right?。
I believe this passage talks about the people of God need to appear before the Lord in Jerusalem.。
It's a reminder for us.。
You know, today, as we come before a corporate worship, together, we need to prepare ourselves。
as well, right?。
Even in our modern days, when we prepare for a trip, right?。
I'm leaving for Tennessee for a family trip tomorrow.。
Guess how much preparation there is, right?。
Guess how much preparation there is.。
The end of August, next month, I'm leading about 10 people to visit the land of Israel。
to study together.。
And guess how much intentional preparation we have to make, right?。
A couple of days ago, I received two SIM cards from a company where I need to rent two local。
phones in order to have better communication in Israel.。
And we make months of preparation.。
Think about what Deuteronomy says.。
Think about what Psalm says.。
We have to prepare ourselves to worship.。
Now, notice the title of the Psalm, 133.。
The Psalms of Ascent.。
There are 15 Psalms that has the same title, Psalm of Ascent.。
Psalm of Ascent means rising up, going up, right?。
Going up.。
It comes from the word even Israeli Jews today would use, aliyah.。
When they say aliyah, they talk about an immigration process.。
Most Jews or Israelis, they are living outside of the land of Israel.。
They live in diaspora in Europe or in America.。
If they decide to immigrate to the land of Israel, the modern nation of Israel, the whole。
process of immigration is called aliyah.。
Now, what does it mean?。
Ascent means going up.。
Aliyah means going up, right?。
And why?。
If you check the geography of the land of Israel, Jerusalem is in the mountain area.。
It is more than 2,000 feet above sea level.。
So wherever you come in, north, south, east, or west, you always go up.。
You always go aliyah.。
Even today when they immigrate to the nation of Israel, they are going through aliyah.。
Have you done your aliyah yet?。
Something like that.。
This is a beautiful picture of what worship is all about.。
Going up, looking up.。
You come here, you don't just look at each other horizontally.。
It's a vertical relationship.。
There are many different images of Christian journey or Christian life you find in the。
Old Testament or especially in the New Testament.。
You can find the image of disciple.。
The word disciple means student, right?。
It's a lifelong learning process.。
You can find the image of temple.。
The Christians are together like stones.。
We are living stones.。
We are building a temple where God will dwell in the midst of us.。
There are different kinds of images, but I think one of the most neglected images that。
a Christian life is all about is the word pilgrimage.。
Pilgrimage.。
It's a journey.。
It's aliyah.。
It's going up to somewhere.。
It is going to a certain end point or destination.。
That may be new to you, but I think Psalm 133 is a song of a sense, one of the fifteen.。
It's reminding you and me that worshipping God, relating to God is a journey.。
It's an aliyah.。
It's a pilgrimage.。
You are going somewhere and the pilgrimage, the journey is a sacred journey.。
Verse 2, it says, "It is like when people coming together to Jerusalem, worshipping。
together, brothers and sisters."。
Verse 2, it says, "It is like good oil, precious oil poured on the head and running down the。
beer of Aaron down upon the opening or the collar of his robes."。
Yikes.。
I don't think it's a beautiful picture.。
So you can imagine oil coming down here and then there's a long beer.。
I think it's pretty ugly for us as modern people.。
But in the ancient time, when they think about Aaron being anointed with so much oil and。
good oil, good precious olive oils, pure oil, they are thinking of the anointing of the。
high priest.。
The high priest is the representative of all of Israel, all the people of God.。
And the high priest will go into the holy of holies of the temple of Jerusalem once。
a year, only one time a year.。
And he is allowed to go into the holy of holies to worship God.。
And he, Aaron, the high priest, is actually the representation of every single Israelite.。
Every single brother and sister is all upon the high priest.。
So anointing him, meaning this is the most sacred climax of the worship life of the whole。
nation, of the whole people of God.。
When the high priest being anointed, meaning that we can come before the presence of God.。
We can come before God himself and we can worship him.。
When Aaron enters the holy of holies, the whole people of God enters with him, go into。
the temple.。
And please notice that.。
It's always corporate.。
Worship is always collective.。
In the Bible, from the first book, Genesis, all the way to the last book of the New Testament,。
Revelation, when it talks about worship, it's not just about singing.。
It's not just about gathering.。
It's a collective experience.。
It's a corporate thing to do.。
It's never your own, your individualistic exercise.。
Now of course you can worship God with your guitar, you can sing to God in your bedroom,。
you can do it by yourself.。
That is of course authentic worship, right?。
You can do it yourself.。
But when the Bible talks about worship, it's often referred to as something corporate,。
something we can see each other, to come together.。
And that is what true worship is all about.。
Now I think one of the cultural scripts of our days, cultural scripts, what I mean, cultural。
scripts meaning our culture has different grand narratives, grand ideologies, grand。
ideas.。
The ideas are so much affecting how we think and how we act.。
But I think one of the cultural scripts today, which is also a cultural right, is that you。
are on your own.。
And you can define yourself and you are not related to anyone.。
You decide for yourself, your future, your career, your identity, or what not.。
You can do it yourself.。
It's all DIY, right?。
It's one of our cultural scripts in America.。
Individualism.。
Who is going to define you?。
Who is going to define your identity?。
You, the person in the mirror.。
That is one of the cultural rights.。
You singular can change the world.。
A couple of months ago I attended a graduation ceremony.。
It was not too long ago.。
I pay attention to the speech being said there, although nobody paid attention to that.。
But I pay attention to what the speaker is talking about.。
In the commencement speech, playing the whole entire cultural script, "Graduates, you are。
important.。
You can change the world.。
Graduates, you are good.。
You can change the world all by yourself.。
Individualistic."。
It's one of our cultural scripts.。
Some years ago, actually some decades ago, Mother Teresa was being interviewed by a British。
journalist called Malcolm McElrich.。
Now in the entire interview, it was done in 1968.。
And because of that interview, Mother Teresa became internationally known by many other。
people.。
It was only because of that interview.。
Everybody after that knows Mother Teresa.。
And in their conversation, in the interview, it's very interesting.。
There was one point.。
Mother Teresa said to Malcolm, "Malcolm claimed to be a Christian, but he was never willing。
to join the church.。
But he says he's a Christian."。
So Mother Teresa said to Malcolm, she said, "Malcolm, you're a good man.。
Why don't you go all the way and become a church member?"。
And then Malcolm replied, he said, "Well, to answer you, Mother, I guess God sees that。
I am a good man.。
And God needs some good men outside of the church as well as inside of the church."。
And to that, Mother Teresa replied with three words, three English words.。
And guess what they are?。
Mother Teresa said, "No, he doesn't."。
And to that, Malcolm could not reply anymore.。
And in his autobiography, Malcolm writes, "I could not answer that argument, so I became。
a church member."。
No, you are not the most important person in the world.。
We are not.。
God is.。
God is most important.。
And we are His servants.。
And God doesn't call us to be successful.。
God calls us to be faithful.。
Faithful with our time and our gift, our talents, our treasure.。
That's all God asks us to do.。
We are not the most important people in the world.。
But when God sees His people, He sees a family, a church, a family.。
Verse 3, "When God's people together, worshipping Him, it is as if the dew of Hermon, which。
is the highest mountain in Israel, the dew, the moisture, falling on Mount Zion, which。
is Jerusalem.。
For there the Lord bestows His blessing, even life forevermore."。
Dew of Hermon is the cold moisture, the highest mountain, 9,000 feet above sea level.。
Snow-capped mountain.。
Moisture coming down to bless the land so that the land will have life, especially in。
summer months, about April to September.。
There's no rain in the land of Israel.。
It's so dry and so hot.。
There's no rain during the summer months.。
And in order to survive those months, you need the dew of Hermon.。
The morning dew, the mist, the hazy thin moisture that we see early morning, every early morning。
before sunrise.。
It is life being sustained by the moisture.。
So you see the metaphor here.。
When the people of God gather together to worship Him, collectively, cooperatively,。
it is like life we can experience.。
Again you believe in Jesus Christ, you become a Christian, right?。
And you have eternal life, right?。
So often we mistakenly thought that the eternal life can be experienced individualistically.。
No, the Bible says no.。
The Apostles' Creed says no.。
We can only experience eternal life, the fullness, when the people of God gather together, sisters。
and brothers, getting ready to worship God.。
And that is the beautiful picture about corporate worship.。
I think the pandemic has done quite a bit damage to Christian life, to church life,。
to our own life.。
Because it forces us to isolate ourselves, right?。
To go through, I mean to abide with the culture script of individualism.。
That we are okay as long as we are on our own.。
No, the Bible says no.。
We are being created as someone connected with the bigger family, a bigger church.。
I understand in this generation, many organized religious institutions fell, leaders fell.。
I have talked about it in the previous sermon.。
Please don't put your faith in any human beings, myself included.。
We are all broken.。
We need to be redeemed, every one of us.。
I like what Martin Luther said.。
He said, "Every Christian is 100% sane, being redeemed by God, forgiven by God.。
But he is also 100% sinner."。
We are all broken and we need the redemption of Jesus Christ offered by the cross.。
We need the gospel, all of us.。
We need the gospel.。
We need the new life, the eternal life of God.。
So don't put your faith in human beings.。
And don't put your faith, by all means, in any organization, any religious institution.。
They are broken as well.。
They are broken as broken as we are.。
Put your faith in God.。
Put your faith in Jesus Christ.。
So back to the beautiful picture of corporate worship.。
I think the Psalms invites us to re-imagine, to re-envision what worship is all about.。
What life in God is all about.。
When God's people getting ready together, right, to worship God together.。
Ask yourself next time you go to worship.。
Ask yourself next week when you come in, alright.。
How do you get ready?。
Your body, your mind, and your spirit, right.。
Even I as a pastor, sometimes I go to another church to worship because of traveling.。
I go to another church to attend the worship service.。
I always ask myself before I step into the worship service, before the service starts.。
I always pray a simple prayer.。
I pray to God, "Prepare my heart.。
Prepare my mind.。
Prepare my body so that I can meet God in His presence.。
I can worship with other believers."。
When I read the Bible together, when I think about faith, think about this, you know, God。
thing, right.。
Over and over again I want God to shape my mind, right, and shape my heart.。
You know, this psalm is telling us we are coming together as a community.。
We are never isolated individuals.。
Come together as one people, living together, worshipping God together.。
And of course now our high priest is our Lord Jesus Christ.。
He is the perfect high priest and He offered Himself as the perfect sacrifice.。
To the holy of holies, in Jesus, in Christ, we can come before the very presence of God.。
And we can come before God and when we worship Him together, God sees something good in us.。
There is something pleasant in His sight.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we give You thanks because You are our good God.。
And thank You for Your grace that formed this community, formed Your church, formed Your。
community that is to worship.。
And we pray that we never lose sight of the fact that we are worshipping You as one people.。
We are worshipping You in Christ and with other sisters and brothers.。
And thank You for the opportunity, for the blessing that we can experience when we worship。
You together.。
And pray that You will continue to help us and remind us to prepare our hearts and our。
mind and our body so that we can worship You and the worship act itself is pleasing and。
is good in Your sight.。
And thank You that we can be Your children, Your sons and daughters.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
