Hey family, we are continuing on this morning with this study of the Sermon on the Mount,。
the Kingdom Values that Jesus teaches us.。
And we're looking specifically again at this section in Matthew 6 on prayer, where Jesus。
is teaching us how to pray.。
And this is what we commonly call in the church, the Lord's Prayer.。
It's a model prayer for us, kind of a template that Jesus gives us in learning how to pray.。
And that's so important.。
Prayer is just so important for us.。
Prayer has always been important for believers.。
This is one of the fundamental pieces of our health, our spiritual health as Christians,。
as followers of Jesus, is to have a strong and a vibrant prayer life.。
And last week I mentioned that I think this is something that a lot of times we're missing,。
especially in the modern world, especially as believers in North America and the United。
States.。
We don't pray enough.。
We a lot of times don't really know how to pray.。
And especially as young people, we don't pray enough and we don't really know how to pray.。
And so this is just huge.。
This is so important.。
This is so big for us to get.。
And I'm excited that we're looking at it.。
And I hope that we can really get a lot from what Jesus is teaching us here, because it。
will be such a blessing and such a benefit to our spiritual life and our spiritual health。
and our relationship to God.。
Now last week we talked about the fact that Jesus was teaching us that prayer is a personal。
conversation with God and how important it is for us to understand that.。
Sometimes we don't really know what prayer is and it's confusing.。
Obviously it's also difficult sometimes because there's discipline involved.。
It's not easy to set aside time to pray.。
It's not easy to focus on praying.。
Our mind can wander, all these things.。
And so just those obstacles in and of themselves can really keep us from praying because we're。
like, "This is hard.。
It's kind of difficult.。
I don't know what I'm doing.。
It seems confusing to me."。
And so we talked about how important it is just to understand that it's simple.。
It's not necessarily easy, but it is simple.。
Jesus teaches us that prayer is simply a personal conversation with God.。
It's not some type of ritual.。
It's not something that we have to do all these certain steps and get everything right.。
It's not like something where we have to say the perfect words or say the right words or。
say them in the right order.。
And if we don't say the words according to the formula or say them in the right way,。
then it's not going to work.。
That's not prayer at all.。
Prayer is simply having a conversation with God, sharing our hearts with God, pouring。
out the needs, the desires, the fears, the trouble, everything that we're dealing with.。
We share that with God in conversation and that's what prayer is.。
We talked last week about the personal nature of that conversation.。
Jesus makes it clear at the beginning of this prayer that we're talking to our Father who。
loves us and who is close to us and who wants to be involved in our lives, who wants to。
hear us.。
Our Father in heaven is someone that we have a close and personal and intimate relationship。
with.。
Jesus made that really clear for us.。
And then we spoke last week about how Jesus teaches us that our prayer should be focused。
on God.。
And He begins this prayer by focusing our hearts on God, by talking about God first,。
by thinking about God first and how important that is to begin by focusing on God and who。
He is and His love for us as Father, but also His greatness and His goodness and His power。
and His holiness in our lives.。
That's so important.。
And then the other thing we discussed last week was just that as we begin to focus on。
God, it really informs our praying.。
As we begin to think about God as our Father, as a loving God who cares about us, as we。
begin to think about God as powerful and great, but also as good.。
And as we begin to think about God as holy and righteous and all these things, it really。
affects the way we pray.。
It really changes the way we pray.。
It really changes what we're going to ask God for.。
And so it's really important for us to do that, to begin prayer from a place of focusing。
on God and who He is and letting the reality of who God is change the way we pray and change。
the requests that we have and the things that we're going to ask for.。
So this week, we're going to continue on and look at the next verse here.。
And we're going to continue to learn what Jesus has to teach us about prayer.。
And I took advantage of some of the really nice weather this weekend.。
I went on a little bike ride on the Lakefront Trail, so I've got a little footage of that。
for you.。
But I just want us to really consider what Jesus is teaching us here today and try to。
really understand it and practice it.。
I want us to think about how we can practice these things in our life and in our prayer。
life and how we can grow in our prayer life with God.。
So we're going to begin today looking again in Matthew chapter six.。
We're going to start at verse seven.。
This is Jesus speaking.。
He says, "And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they。
think that they will be heard for their many words.。
Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask Him.。
Pray then like this, 'Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.。
Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.'"。
And I really want us to focus on verse 10 today and just one big truth that God is teaching。
us in this verse.。
Jesus is really teaching us here that prayer is not about us notifying God.。
It's more about God changing us.。
And we sometimes think that prayer is kind of about us informing or notifying or letting。
God know what's going on in our lives.。
Maybe you've prayed that way.。
I've prayed that way a lot.。
Maybe you've heard other people pray that way.。
What we're doing in prayer is kind of telling God what's going on and telling God what we。
need and what we want and all those things.。
And that is an important part of prayer.。
I'm not discounting that in any way.。
Like I said last week, God loves us.。
He cares about our needs.。
He wants us to express the needs of our heart to Him.。
That's hugely important.。
And in the model prayer here that we are talking about a few verses later, we'll get to that。
section where Jesus begins to teach us to express our needs to Him.。
So that's important.。
I'm not saying it's not about that.。
But I'm saying that's not the primary purpose of prayer in our lives.。
And sometimes we think it is.。
Sometimes we think the primary purpose is that I can just tell God what's going on and。
what I want, what I need.。
And that's not what prayer is about.。
Jesus is showing us here at the beginning of this prayer, He gives a foundational and。
primary place to thinking about God's will and purpose in our life.。
And that's something that God wants to do through prayer.。
As we begin to practice it, as we begin to spend time with God in prayer, as we begin。
to use prayer in conjunction with God's Word to really think through our circumstances。
and think through what's going on in our life, God is going to use prayer to change us.。
And that's really important for us to understand.。
Prayer is not as much as we think about us informing God, and it's a lot more about God。
changing us.。
And we see that in verse 8, Jesus says, "Hey, God already knows what you need before you。
ask Him."。
Well, if God already knows what we need before we ask Him, why does He even want us to ask。
Him?。
Why does He even want us to pray in the first place?。
God already knows everything.。
He already knows what we're going through.。
He knows the intricacies of our challenges.。
He knows the complexity of our pain.。
God knows all that.。
So why are we supposed to tell Him?。
Why are we supposed to pour our heart out?。
Why are we supposed to let Him know what's going on?。
Why are we supposed to cry out to Him with our heart?。
Because as we do that, something will change.。
And it won't be God.。
It's not that we're going to change God with the things we say.。
It is us.。
God wants to use prayer to change us.。
And that happens in so many ways.。
First of all, prayer begins to change our relationship to God.。
As we begin to practice it, as we begin to do it, as we begin to spend time in conversation。
with God and pouring our hearts out to Him, we get closer to Him.。
It changes our relationship because we grow in that relationship.。
We get closer.。
That relationship gets stronger and deeper and tighter.。
That's what happens.。
Just like in a human relationship, when you have a friend and you begin to spend more。
and more time with that person and you guys share more and more conversation, and over。
time in that conversation you begin to talk about deeper issues of your heart and difficult。
things that you've gone through and past experiences and things that have troubled。
you or things that have been a challenge in your life, that changes that relationship.。
It changes that friendship.。
That friendship deepens and it gets stronger and you become closer to one another.。
The same is true in our relationship to God.。
As we begin to practice prayer and we begin to practice it more and more and we spend。
more time with God and we open our heart to God more and more and we begin to share more。
and more of what's going on in our life, it begins to change our relationship to God.。
We get closer to Him.。
That relationship gets stronger.。
It deepens.。
It gets more mature.。
Prayer changes our relationship to God.。
Prayer as our relationship begins to change, prayer changes our perspective on our circumstances.。
See when we see a circumstance, especially a difficult circumstance in our life, when。
we see some difficult situation and we say, "This is a problem in my life.。
It's hurting me.。
It's a big deal and I don't know what to do about it."。
Maybe it's some type of issue at our job.。
Maybe we lose a job or there's some relationship at our job with a boss or a co-worker that's。
really a problem.。
Maybe it's something in school where school is not going how we want it to or we're afraid。
that we're going to experience some sort of failure or rejection in some way.。
Maybe it's in a relationship with a friend or in a romantic relationship or maybe it's。
in some other area of our life.。
But when we see a difficult circumstance, that can cause us to feel fear.。
That can cause us to feel worry.。
That can cause us to feel anxiety.。
All different types of things that that can cause in our heart when we see that circumstance。
and focus on it.。
But when we begin to go to God and focus more on Him, suddenly our perspective on that circumstance。
begins to change.。
We begin to see God's love for us, His goodness, His care for us.。
The fact that He is bigger and stronger than that circumstance, that situation, that obstacle.。
The fact that He can get us through it.。
The fact that no matter what happens, He will be with us even if things feel like they're。
not going well for us.。
God's presence is in our life.。
Suddenly our perspective on that situation begins to change.。
Prayer changes us because it changes our perspective on our situation.。
As we grow in that relationship with God, as God changes our relationship and we get。
closer to Him, then our perspective begins to change even more.。
In that way, we can understand prayer as a relational conversation that changes our perspective.。
And that's something that we can illustrate with a human relationship.。
Maybe you've had a friend or a family member, someone that you knew well, and you had a。
good relationship with them.。
And you guys had a different perspective on some issue.。
You had a different idea about something.。
And as you sat down and began to talk about that issue together, it changed your perspective。
or it changed their perspective.。
Maybe you've experienced that.。
Maybe you've experienced the fact that when you have a relationship of trust and empathy。
with someone and you begin to share your heart with them and they share their heart with。
you, that begins to change your perspective on the issues that you talk about or the issues。
that you're facing in life.。
Maybe it causes you to say, "Okay, I see this in a different way that I didn't see before。
because I had this relational conversation with this other person."。
And that is something that happens in prayer.。
As we begin to know God more closely and walk with Him in a deeper way, and as we begin。
to have these conversations with Him through prayer, God changes our perspective.。
We start to feel differently about some of the issues in our life.。
Some of the things that used to be really important to us are now less important.。
And some of the things that used to be just kind of side issues that we didn't even really。
notice now become of primary importance in our life because we begin to value what God。
values and we begin to value less all those things that we in our selfishness value and。
that the world around us in its selfishness values.。
That's what happens in prayer.。
It is this relational conversation that changes our perspective.。
And as that happens, prayer begins to change our desires.。
And this is really, really important.。
That prayer begins to change the things we want and the things that we desire in our。
life.。
Let's look at Psalm 37.。
This is a great psalm.。
And it's actually got a lot of good truth for us right now in the moment that we're。
in with all the things going on and all the schemes and the plots and everything that。
happens that makes us frightened in our world.。
This is really good for us to read.。
This is the first, we'll read the first seven verses.。
It says this, "Fret not yourself because of evildoers.。
Be not envious of wrongdoers, for they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the。
green herb.。
Trust in the Lord and do good.。
Dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness.。
Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart.。
Commit your way to the Lord.。
Trust in Him and He will act.。
He will bring forth your righteousness as the light and your justice as the noonday.。
Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for Him.。
Fret not yourself over the one who prospers in His way, over the man who carries out evil。
devices."。
Like I said, it's a great passage for us in the world that we live in.。
But I want us to think specifically about verse four, "Delight yourself in the Lord。
and He will give you the desires of your heart."。
There's something very interesting in this verse and something very interesting in our。
understanding of prayer as we consider this verse.。
We all have desires, right?。
We all want stuff.。
And for a lot of us, those human desires are we just want to be healthy and wealthy and。
comfortable and for everything to go great in our life.。
We want it to be easy.。
We want things to go well.。
We want it to all work out and for our life to be comfortable and happy for us, right?。
That's what we want.。
But this verse is telling us that we first need to delight ourselves in the Lord and。
we need to make what's important to Him important to us.。
We need to find joy in God and in His truth.。
And as we do that, He'll give us the desires of our heart.。
Now what is this verse saying?。
Is it saying that if we delight ourselves in God and find joy in His truth, that then。
He'll just make us healthy, wealthy, and our life will be easy and comfortable?。
He'll give us everything we've ever wanted.。
We'll be a millionaire and we'll get all the things we want from life.。
I don't think that's what this verse is saying.。
I think what this verse is saying is that as we delight ourselves in God and begin to。
rejoice in His truth, the desires of our heart will become aligned with God's desires for。
our life.。
And we will end up seeing those things brought into our life.。
We will see God's plan at work in our life.。
And as our desires are now aligned with God's desires, we will get what we want from life.。
We see this in the prayer that Jesus is praying here in Matthew 6 and verse 10.。
Jesus says, "God, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven."。
Jesus is saying, "God, I am not asking for you to give us what we want.。
I'm asking for you to do what you want.。
And I'm asking for us to become aligned with what you want."。
And we want to see that happen.。
See as we begin to pray, prayer changes our desires.。
Maybe we go into prayer thinking, "Okay, God, here's what I need in this situation.。
I need my boss to change, or I need my teacher to change in this way, or I need this person,。
my friend, to change in this way, or I need you to give me this, or I need you to give。
me that, or I need you to fix this, or I need you to fix that in my life."。
Maybe we go into prayer that way.。
But as we begin to spend time with God, focus on Him, and see more of who He is, and see。
more of how He works in our life, and as we think more about how He loves us and how He。
is working all things to good in our life, even the difficult things, and He uses even。
the challenges to grow us and to strengthen us and to bring beautiful things in our life,。
maybe those prayers begin to change because those desires begin to change.。
And maybe we say, "Okay, God, you know what?。
Maybe you don't need to change my boss or my teacher right now.。
Maybe I need to learn how to respond to them in a better way.。
Even if they're wrong, even if they're doing something that's difficult for me and it's。
not my fault, maybe I can grow in this situation.。
God, maybe what's going on in my life is not about me just needing to get something else。
and me needing you to give me something else.。
Maybe it's me learning how to be content with what I have, or maybe it's me learning how。
to give to someone else, or maybe it's me learning how to serve and using what you've。
done in my life to serve others."。
See as we begin to pray, it begins to change the desires of our hearts, and as those desires。
of our heart change and begin to align with God's desires for our heart, suddenly we'll。
see more and more of those desires getting met.。
That's what Psalms 37, verse 4 is saying.。
If we will delight ourselves in God, if we will find joy in His truth for our life, then。
the desires of our heart will suddenly move to a place where we are wanting for our life。
what God wants for our life.。
And as those desires change, then we'll start to see them come to pass.。
Instead of just wanting to be rich and comfortable and have everything go great in our life,。
we'll say, "God, what do you want for my life?。
How do you want to grow me and change me and use even the difficult, hard circumstances。
in my life for your glory and for my good?"。
As we begin to desire that, that desire will come to pass.。
We'll say, "Yeah, I can see this is actually happening.。
God is using these things in my life to glorify Him and to benefit me, and I can see it, and。
now the desires of my heart are coming to me."。
Prayer changes our desires, and that's so important.。
Prayer changes what we ask for.。
As our desires change, we start to ask for different things.。
Instead of just saying, "God, I just want everything to be great in my life," we start。
to say, "God, I actually want to know you more, and whatever it takes for you to grow。
me and take me to a place of knowing you more, that's what I want.。
Even if it's not easy, even if it doesn't feel great, that's what I'm asking for."。
Instead of saying, "God, can you just do this in my life because it would be great for me,"。
we start to say, "God, can you do something in my life that would allow me to serve and。
love someone else, even if it's not great for me?"。
Instead of saying, "God, can you make everything work out where I get what I want in life,"。
we start to say, "God, can you help me to connect someone else with you, and can you。
help me to care for others?。
Can you help me to give more and to love more and to serve more?。
Can you help me to be more focused on what's important to you in my life instead of just。
what my own selfish desires are?"。
We start to ask for completely different things, and that's good.。
When I was a young man, I was a follower of Jesus as a teenager, but the things I asked。
for back then are not the things I ask for today.。
The things I asked for in my life back then, some of them were good, but a lot of them。
were pretty selfishly motivated and selfishly oriented.。
I'm glad that those things have changed, that I ask for different things today.。
There's still a lot of things that I ask for right now in my life that are selfishly oriented。
and selfishly motivated, and I'm sure God will change more of those as I continue to。
grow and walk with Him.。
But it's good that God has changed the desires of my heart.。
It's good that God has changed what I ask for in prayer.。
As you spend time with God and your relationship to Him changes, your perspective changes,。
your desires change, it will change what you ask for.。
You'll start asking for some different things.。
The way you pray when people are sick, the way you pray when things are difficult in。
your life, the way you pray when things surprise you because they don't go your way will change.。
You will ask for different things.。
And as you begin to change and ask for different things, your choices will change as well.。
Prayer changes our choices.。
We ask for different things and we begin to say, "God, I'm going to choose something。
different.。
I'm not just going to choose the thing that maximizes my own pleasure and comfort and。
selfishness and wealth.。
I'm going to choose the thing that maximizes your glory in my life.。
I'm going to choose to do what would honor you in my life.。
I'm going to choose to do what's best for the kingdom of God in my life."。
It changes our choices.。
And as it changes our choices, prayer begins to change our outcome.。
It begins to change the direction of our life.。
It begins to change where we're headed.。
It begins to change the choices that we're making and it begins to change who we are.。
Who we are as a person begins to fundamentally change.。
And what we're doing with our time and with our resources and with our energy, with our。
focus begins to fundamentally change.。
Prayer changes who we are.。
We get to a place where we can say genuinely what Jesus said in verse 10, "God, your kingdom。
come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven."。
That's a hard thing to say.。
It's hard to say, "God, I'm going to surrender my will to you and I'm going to say, 'God,。
this is what I want or this is what I desire,' but I'm saying, 'Your will be done, your kingdom。
come on earth as it is in heaven.'"。
It's an easier thing to say in those moments when you don't care, when you say, "Okay,。
whatever happens in this situation, I don't really care."。
It's not that difficult.。
But in the situations where you really want something to happen, where you're really praying。
for something, where someone's sick or where there's something going on in your life that's。
really important to you and you're saying, "God, can you please do this?。
This is what I want.。
This is what I need.。
This is what I want to see happen."。
It's difficult to get to that place where you say, "God, this is what I want.。
This is what I want to see happen, but I'm going to pray that your will is done and that。
your kingdom comes on earth as it is in heaven."。
That's a difficult prayer to pray, but as we begin to spend time in prayer, as we begin。
to practice prayer, we begin to let God change our relationship to Him, change our perspective,。
change the way we look at our circumstances, change our desires, change what we ask for,。
change our choices.。
That's what we'll start to see.。
We'll find ourselves in that place where we can say, "God, this is the desire of my heart.。
Yes, I'm going to pour it out to you.。
I'm going to be honest with what's going on.。
I'm going to be transparent about my feelings, and I'm going to let you know all of what's。
going on, but I'm also going to come to this place where I'm saying, 'God, may your will。
be done and not mine.。
I'm going to come to a place of surrender and of allowing you to work in my life.'"。
And that's what's huge about prayer.。
Jesus points us to this right up front in the Mahalo prayer, that prayer is less about。
us telling God stuff and more about God changing our heart.。
The telling God stuff is important, but what's even more important is that God wants to change。
who we are and how we relate to Him, how we relate to the world around us, and God does。
that through prayer and through this practice of spending time with Him.。
So I want us to begin to practice this this week.。
I want us to intentionally say, "You know what, we are going to, as we pray, ask God。
to change our relationship to Him, to change our perspective, to change our perspective。
on our circumstances, to change our desires, to change the things that we're asking for,。
to change some of the choices we make, to get us to that point where we can say, 'God,。
your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.'"。
And Psalm 37, verse 4 gives us a good idea of how that happens.。
It happens when we start to say, "God, I'm going to delight myself in you.。
I'm going to rejoice in your truth.。
I'm going to focus on your truth.。
I'm going to focus on knowing your truth and understanding what's important to you, and。
as I do, I'm going to shift my desires to align with your desires."。
So let's practice that this week.。
Let's focus on knowing God's truth and on knowing what's important to God in our world。
and in our life and what He wants for us.。
We've already talked so much about these values of the kingdom.。
That's what God wants for us in our lives.。
Do we have those values in our life?。
Are our desires in line with those values of the kingdom?。
Let's think about that, and as we do, let's begin to let God change our perspective and。
our desires so that we can become more and more of who Jesus wants us to be, and we can。
move more and more to that place of saying, "God, may your kingdom come and your will。
be done on earth as it is in heaven."。
Let's pray.。
God, I do ask that you would change us through prayer, God.。
I ask that you would help us to first of all just practice prayer.。
Just do it.。
And as we do it, that our focus would be on you, and as we begin to focus on you and on。
your truth and on who you are and your love for us, that we would begin to change in our。
perspective.。
That we would begin to change in our desires, God.。
I pray that you would change the desires of our heart to align with your desires.。
And as that happens, God, I pray that we would change the things we ask for, that we would。
begin to ask for things that glorify you instead of things that just satisfy ourselves.。
And God, I pray that as we do that, we would see your kingdom come and your will being。
done on earth as it is in heaven, God.。
Your will is perfect.。
Your will is good for all of us in a way that our own will is not, even when we imagine。
that we know what would be best in a situation.。
We don't, but you do.。
So God, we pray that your will would be done.。
We pray that your kingdom would come on earth.。
We know it's already that way in heaven, that your will and your power and purpose is already。
fully manifested in heaven.。
And so we pray that through us, your people, it would be manifested on earth as well.。
In Jesus name, amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
