- Well, good morning.。
It's fantastic to be here as always.。
Really grateful to be with you all。
and to worship with you this morning.。
And appreciated the worship.。
Thank you, Jason.。
And I'm glad to see all of you.。
I know it's not easy to get here on a morning like this。
when it's this cold.。
I think, there we go.。
I know it's not easy to get here on a morning like this.。
When I woke up at my house, it was about negative eight。
or negative nine.。
So I know it's an effort just to get out the door。
and to get to church today.。
So thank you for being here.。
And for those that are watching online,。
hope that everyone is warm and safe.。
That's important today.。
Make sure that you're warm and safe。
and check on the people in your family,。
in your neighborhood,。
make sure everybody else is warm and safe as well.。
Since this is the beginning of the year,。
we're gonna be talking about the hope。
that we have in Christ.。
And we're gonna be looking in the book of Ephesians today.。
So if you wanna turn there in your Bible。
or in your Bible app,。
we're gonna be in Ephesians chapter one,。
verses 15 to 23,。
talking about the hope that we have in Christ.。
And in chapter one of Ephesians,。
this is a letter written by Paul to this church at Ephesus,。
this group of believers.。
And he starts talking in the chapter one。
about what God has done on their behalf.。
And he ends the chapter with this beautiful prayer for them.。
And I think this is really a powerful prayer。
for us to consider at any time,。
but especially as we begin the new year。
and we're thinking about some of the things we might face.。
So let's read these verses together.。
Ephesians one, beginning in verse 15,。
it says, "For this reason,。
"because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus。
"and your love toward all the saints,。
"I do not cease to give thanks for you,。
"remembering you in my prayers,。
"that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
"the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom。
"and of revelation in the knowledge of him,。
"having the eyes of your hearts enlightened,。
"that you may know what is the hope。
"to which he has called you.。
"What are the riches of his glorious inheritance。
"in the saints?。
"And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power。
"toward us who believe,。
"according to the working of his great might,。
"that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead。
"and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places,。
"far above all rule and authority and power and dominion,。
"and above every name that is named,。
"not only in this age, but also in the one to come.。
"And he put all things under his feet。
"and gave him as head over all things to the church,。
"which is his body, the fullness of him。
"who fills all in all."。
God, thank you for your word, thank you for your truth,。
thank you for the hope that we have in you,。
and I pray that our hearts would be。
filled with that this morning as we look at your word,。
and I pray that as we consider this year that is to come。
and what you might have for us,。
the joys as well as the adversity,。
that we would be filled with hope。
knowing that you are at work in our lives,。
and that you have grace that's sufficient。
for anything that we're gonna face this year, God.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
I wanna remind us of a story, this is in Mark chapter two,。
the beginning of Mark chapter two,。
there's a man who is paralyzed, he's unable to walk,。
and this man has four friends。
who want him to be healed, want him to be made whole.。
And apparently one of them, or maybe all of them,。
we don't know, it's not clear from the story,。
but somebody in the story, one of his friends,。
had heard about this itinerant rabbi, this teacher,。
who was teaching and who was also healing people.。
And so these four friends get together,。
and they take this man who's unable to walk,。
and they say, "We're gonna take our friend to see。
"this teacher, this healer."。
And they go and they find out where Jesus is at that time.。
They go and he's teaching in this house,。
probably not a real big house.。
They get there, they've carried their friend all the way。
to bring him to Jesus.。
They get there and the house is so full。
that there's no way they can get in.。
And scripture tells us that even the doorway is blocked.。
They can't get in at all.。
But they're not deterred by that.。
They say, "We really want our friend。
"to be able to encounter Jesus and to be able to have。
"this time with Jesus because we believe, we hope,。
"we have faith that Jesus can heal our friend."。
And so they find a way up onto the roof of the house.。
They somehow make a hole in the roof.。
We don't know if it was a mud house。
and they actually tore tiles off of the roof。
or it was more of a thatched roof and they just opened it up。
but that's not real clear.。
But they make a hole in the roof。
and lower their friend down through the roof.。
And then Jesus ends up healing their friend.。
We're probably familiar with that story.。
Maybe you've heard it in church before.。
Maybe you heard it in Sunday school。
when you were a little kid.。
'Cause it's an amazing story.。
But what I want us to think about in that story today。
is those friends and the motivation,。
the hope that they had in order to take their friend。
who couldn't walk and say, "We're gonna get up this morning。
"and we're gonna take this person.。
"We're gonna go find this teacher that we've heard about。
"and we're not gonna be deterred by any obstacle."。
And when they got there and there was too many people。
and people said, "There's no way you can't even get in.。
"The door's blocked."。
They didn't say, "Well, I guess we'll just go back home."。
They said, "No, we're gonna find a way."。
And however it happened, they end up on the roof。
and they tear this hole in the roof。
and lower their friend down.。
And then what happens?。
Their friend is healed and he's able to walk.。
He's healed by Jesus.。
And that story reminds us of how important hope is。
in our lives, how it propels us forward.。
Without hope, we struggle to move forward.。
We say, "Well, I don't see why I should go forward.。
"What's the point?。
"It's not gonna work, nothing's gonna happen."。
But when we have hope in the work that God is doing,。
it propels us forward.。
And that's a great consideration for us。
at the start of a new year.。
All of us are probably thinking about some things。
that are in our life during 2024.。
Maybe we're reflecting on some things。
that were in our life during 2023.。
Hopefully we have some prayers, some desires。
that we're asking God for and we're considering.。
And all of us know that this year is gonna hold some things。
that we are fully unaware of。
and unprepared for at this point, right?。
I remember January of 2020, right here in this room,。
having conversations with Pastor Mark。
about what was gonna happen.。
At that point, there were no,。
the lockdowns hadn't started in Chicago yet.。
It was just, things were just starting here.。
Obviously, we had no idea what 2020 was gonna hold。
and the adversity and the challenges。
that it was gonna hold for so many people.。
Hopefully this year doesn't have anything like that for us.。
But still, there are things ahead that we don't know about.。
Some of them are joyful things.。
Some of them are really, could be challenging things。
in this year for us.。
And we need to have hope in God's work in our lives.。
And one of the things that I see in this prayer of Paul。
in Ephesians 1 that's really beautiful。
is he's letting these believers know,。
he's saying, "Hey, the climb ahead of you is steep,。
"but have hope because God has given you。
"all that you need in Christ."。
Now, I wanna just do a quick flyover。
of the book of Ephesians and the things。
that he's talking about.。
There's a lot of big issues in this letter.。
So in chapter two, he starts talking。
about unity in the church.。
That's a big issue.。
That's a challenging thing, to stay unified。
as the people of God.。
He talks about how God has brought us。
from this spiritual state of alienation。
and being separated from God into reconciliation.。
That's huge, that's cosmic, right?。
To go from separation from God into reconciliation.。
In chapter three, he talks about the mystery。
of the gospel, how God's brought us。
from spiritual darkness into understanding.。
In chapter four, he talks about the new life。
we have in Christ, how we're to put off。
the old self and put on the new self.。
Well, again, how do we even comprehend that,。
much less live it out?。
These are big things that he's gonna be putting。
in front of this group of believers.。
In chapter five, he talks about how we're supposed。
to walk in love in our family relationships,。
in the practical relationships of our lives.。
In chapter six, he talks more about relationships。
and spiritual warfare and the armor of God.。
The point I'm making here is that this letter。
is full of really heavy topics and really big things。
and things that, as a Christian, we say,。
wow, how is this possible?。
God, how could I ever live this out?。
How could I ever see these things happen in my life?。
How could I be transformed in this way?。
How could I be brought from darkness to light?。
These are really big things.。
The climb is steep, and that's what Paul is letting us know.。
That's why this prayer is in the beginning of,。
it's in the first chapter, it's in the beginning。
of the letter, he's saying, listen,。
there's some tough stuff ahead of you.。
It's not gonna be easy.。
God's called you to something big and something important。
and something significant, and it's not gonna be simple。
or easy, but you can have hope because God's given you。
everything you need in Christ.。
And that's a really beautiful message for us.。
We need to know that.。
We need to know that as we look forward in our own lives。
into this year and into our future, and we say,。
hey, there's probably gonna be some challenging things.。
Some of us may be sitting here already knowing。
what some of those are.。
We may say, okay, I already know that there's some things。
coming up in my life, in relationships that I have。
that are gonna be challenging, or in my workplace,。
and it's gonna be really tough, or in my school,。
or in some decision I have to make,。
and it's not gonna be easy.。
Maybe we already know what some of those things are.。
Maybe we don't know.。
Maybe they're gonna hit us in a few months.。
Or maybe for some of us, those are these things。
that we see in the book of Ephesians.。
We're saying, I want to be transformed.。
I wanna be more like Christ.。
I want God to use me more in the lives of others.。
I wanna grow as a disciple maker.。
I wanna grow in my service to God in the church,。
and I know myself, and I know that that's not。
gonna be easy.。
And as we think about those challenges,。
and the fact that the climb is steep,。
we can have hope because we have the power of Christ.。
This prayer is prayed over people who are facing。
a lot of challenges, and they need to know。
the hope that they have.。
And this prayer isn't just, it's a pep talk,。
but it's more than a pep talk,。
because it has spiritual power.。
He's not just saying, hey guys, let's think positive,。
and I'm gonna tell you some stuff to make you feel good.。
It's more than that.。
He is encouraging them, but he's also saying,。
God is at work through the power of the Holy Spirit。
in your lives in a supernatural way,。
and God will carry you through these things.。
Look at what he says.。
He says that you may know what is the hope。
to which he has called you.。
What are the riches of his glorious inheritance。
in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness。
of his power toward us who believe。
according to the working of his great might?。
That's the hope that we have.。
Our hope is in the gospel, the good news of transformation。
by grace through faith in Christ.。
Our hope is in the power of God.。
And this is, we need to understand。
that this power is God's power.。
It's given to us as his people through Christ。
and by the Holy Spirit, but it's God's power.。
It's power, as he says here in verse 19,。
beyond measurement, it's power beyond comprehension.。
This is the power of God the Father,。
the King of the universe, the creator who made us。
and everything that we see in the entire universe.。
And sometimes we need to be reminded of that.。
As we face challenges in our lives,。
and we say, these are big challenges,。
this is a big deal, I don't know how I'm gonna。
get through this, and it seems like there's no way out,。
and this situation seems impossible,。
we need to be reminded that we're not just trusting。
in a God who can kinda work things out,。
or who is a good negotiator.。
That's not the God that we're trusting in.。
We're trusting in the God who has absolute power。
over everything in our life and in the universe,。
the God who created it all, and the God who loves us.。
And so we have a sure hope, as the scripture says,。
we have something that is not gonna change,。
it's not gonna fade away, it's not gonna evaporate,。
because we're trusting in the power of God.。
And Paul reminds us of this in the next verse.。
In verse 20, he goes on to say that he worked in Christ。
when he raised him from the dead and seated him。
at his right hand in the heavenly places,。
far above all rule and authority and power and dominion,。
and above every name that is named,。
not only in this age, but also in the one to come.。
Paul's reminding us, hey, you have this power,。
and these immeasurable riches of grace。
that are given to you by God.。
What God?。
The God of the universe, the creator God,。
the God who raised Jesus from the dead,。
the resurrection power of Christ,。
is at work in our lives as believers,。
and we need to understand that.。
This is not a small thing.。
This is the same God, the same power。
that raised Jesus from the dead。
that is at work in our lives.。
It's an eternal power.。
And this power is fully vested in Jesus Christ。
as the son of God, but through the Holy Spirit,。
it's at work in us as well.。
It's not something that we take hold of。
and we use for our own purposes.。
It is God using it for his purposes through us,。
but we can have confidence in that.。
Not a confidence where we believe in ourselves。
and say, well, I know my year's gonna be great.。
I know things are gonna go well for me。
because I'm really confident in myself,。
and I'm gonna do such a great job。
of navigating all these challenges.。
No, it's a confidence in Christ where we say,。
you know what?。
I know my year's gonna be challenging,。
and I know I'll probably make some mistakes,。
but God is at work in my life through the power of Christ.。
His grace is gonna be at work even when I mess up,。
even in my relationships or my workplace。
or whatever other area of challenge I have.。
Even when I make a mistake, God's grace is at work.。
God has the power to heal.。
God has the power to redeem even my mistakes.。
God has the power to change people's minds.。
God has the power to work in situations,。
and so I can have confidence in God's work。
in my life this year,。
and peace and comfort that comes along with that confidence,。
not because of me, but because of Christ,。
because of my relationship to him.。
We can believe in him and believe in the power of God。
at work in our lives.。
One of the things we see here is that this power。
is for God's glory, it's not for ours.。
This prayer is so beautiful,。
and it's there to encourage us as believers,。
but it's not centered on us.。
It's centered on God.。
God doesn't just empower us for our own purposes。
so that we can say, okay, now I can go out。
and achieve my objectives in life,。
and that's what it's about.。
God gave me power so I can do what I want.。
That's not what the scripture teaches us.。
That's not the gospel.。
The gospel is that God has his objectives.。
He's at work in our world.。
He's at work in our life,。
and as we align with him in obedience,。
his power flows through us,。
but it's to achieve God's objectives, God's purposes,。
not just our own.。
Now, the beautiful thing about that is that。
our God is a God of love.。
The scripture's clear about that as well,。
and so as we are walking with God。
and we're living in obedience to him,。
he's going to bring goodness and blessing。
and joy into our lives because he's a God of love,。
but we need to understand that ultimately,。
the glory is his and the power is his.。
It's not mine, and we see that in these verses。
when he talks about what the power of God。
at work through Christ, it's all centered on Jesus.。
It's all centered on him.。
Far above all rule, verse 21,。
in authority and power and dominion,。
and above every name that is named,。
not only in this age, but also in the one to come.。
Whose name is above every name that is named?。
Jesus.。
That's, it's centered on him.。
22, he put all things under his feet。
and gave him as head over all things to the church,。
which is his body, the fullness of him。
who fills all in all.。
We see Christ at work in us, the body, the church.。
He's filling all of us with his fullness,。
but it's all centered on him.。
It's not about drawing attention to ourselves.。
It's not about exalting ourselves.。
And the mission that we have in life。
is for us to know him and experience his shalom,。
his peace, his wholeness, his health, his blessing。
as we live in right relationship with him and one another.。
And for us to make disciples.。
That's the mission that we have in the church.。
Well, that's not an easy thing.。
How does that happen?。
It happens as we align with what God is doing in our lives,。
as we live in obedience to him。
and his power flows through us.。
And then we see those things begin to take place.。
We begin to live a life that's defined by love for others。
and compassion and defined by holiness and righteousness。
and defined by service to others。
in the community of the church.。
And all these things that we want to see take place,。
those things take place as God's power。
begins to work through us.。
And it's for his glory.。
The other thing that we really see in this passage。
is that Paul is trying to help us understand our identity。
so that we can live out the mission God has for us.。
If we're gonna have hope for the future,。
a part of that is understanding who we are.。
And I love that in this passage,。
Paul is really focused on our identity.。
He's not focused on the forms of what we're doing.。
Now, here's what I mean by that.。
Paul is praying for this church,。
this small group of believers。
who are facing a lot of challenges.。
And if we went back into the background of Ephesus,。
we could explore that further, right?。
They're in this very secular city。
that is known throughout the known world。
as one of the largest and most important centers。
of the kind of European Roman Empire there at the time.。
And it's known throughout that area for its idol worship.。
It's known throughout that area for its secularism,。
we would say, and its paganism, right?。
So this is the background of where they live.。
So obviously, they're facing all kinds of challenges,。
both in their personal lives,。
but also in their life as a church。
in order to be disciples together and make disciples。
and help people know Jesus.。
They've got this really steep climb ahead of them。
as we talked about earlier.。
And what does Paul pray for them?。
Look at what he prays.。
He doesn't pray for the forms of ministry or lifestyle.。
He doesn't say, "Church of Ephesus,。
"I'm praying that you guys。
"would really have an effective ministry,。
"and you'd learn how to start a great men's ministry。
"or a great women's ministry,。
"or you'd learn to do great work with kids,。
"or you'd learn to really have strong marriages,。
"or that you would learn how to。
"make great financial decisions,。
"or that you would all be successful in your jobs."。
That's what's important, right?。
All those practical things.。
But he doesn't pray any of that.。
He's pointing them towards their identity in Christ.。
He's praying that they'll be full of hope。
because they know who they are in Christ。
and the power that they have.。
Not that they'll have great programs or lots of money,。
or even be really effective。
in what they're trying to do.。
I think that's really huge for us.。
When we think about God's work in our life,。
and we look forward to this year,。
and we say, "Okay, here's some of the things。
"that I'm praying for."。
That's great.。
All those practical things are important,。
and God loves you,。
and he cares about those things in your life,。
and he's engaged in those things,。
in your job, and in the needs that you have,。
and in those relationships.。
God's engaged in all those things.。
They're important to God.。
But the most primary thing for you。
to be healthy in all the other stuff。
is to know who you are in Christ,。
and to walk in that.。
And that's why Paul prays this,。
because he knows for this little church,。
this group of believers,。
maybe it was big.。
I don't really know how many people were there.。
But for this group of exiles,。
we'll say it that way,。
I want us to understand that they were facing challenges,。
whether there was a lot of them or a few of them.。
They were in a difficult place.。
And for this group of exiles in a very difficult place,。
what does he pray?。
He prays that they'll know who they are in Christ,。
and know what they have in Christ.。
Because he believes,。
I think the reason he prays this。
is because he believes。
that if they know who they are in Christ,。
and what they have in Christ,。
then everything else gets fixed, right?。
Then they begin to have healthy marriages,。
and they begin to be effective。
in the ministry they're doing,。
and they begin to effectively make disciples。
with their neighbors,。
and they begin to truly love others,。
and serve in their community,。
and all that other stuff,。
the practical stuff that he could've prayed for them,。
he doesn't pray that,。
because he knows if they get this,。
then the rest of it falls into place.。
Like Jesus, who told us to seek first the kingdom of God,。
and his righteousness,。
and everything else will be added to us in Matthew 6:33.。
I think that this prayer has a very similar theme to it.。
Paul's saying if you will know who you are in Christ,。
and know the hope that you have in him,。
then the rest of this stuff will sort out,。
and God will be at work in those areas of your life.。
And so I think that's a powerful consideration for us。
at the beginning of this year.。
As we think about all those specific。
and practical challenges,。
again, nothing wrong with thinking about those things,。
and nothing wrong with asking God。
to be active in those things.。
That's important, God loves you,。
he wants to be at work in those parts of your life.。
But the thing that we need most。
is to know who we are in Christ,。
and to be really secure in that identity,。
and to be really focused on living into that.。
And if we're doing that,。
then those other areas,。
God is gonna be at work,。
and they're gonna get sorted out.。
And that's what's happening here.。
Paul is praying that these believers。
would walk in the hope of God's work,。
and God's power in and through them,。
as they seek to know and experience him.。
Walk in that hope as they seek to share the good news,。
and make disciples in their very broken and hostile world.。
And that's true for us as well.。
We need to walk in that hope。
of God's work and power in and through us.。
Walk in the hope that we belong to Christ,。
that we're forgiven, that his grace covers us,。
that we are being transformed by him,。
that during 2024 we're gonna be able to seek him,。
and know him more, and obey him more,。
and become more like Christ.。
Walk in that hope.。
And as we seek to share the love of Christ with others,。
and share the good news,。
and make disciples in our broken and hostile world,。
God's power is gonna be at work through us.。
Walk in that hope.。
We need to know the hope that we have.。
Verse 18, "Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened,。
"that you may know what is the hope。
"to which he has called you.。
"What are the riches of his glorious inheritance。
"in the saints?。
"And what is the immeasurable greatness。
"of his power toward us,。
"who believe, according to the working of his great might,。
"that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead,。
"and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places?"。
That's the hope that we are called to walk in as well.。
And I would just encourage us,。
as we think about that,。
that walking in that hope。
allows us to have peace,。
it allows us to have security,。
and it also allows us to be prepared。
for whatever's in our future.。
All those things that we don't know about,。
that will come in 2024 and beyond.。
I remember, today's the 14th,。
so tomorrow, the 15th,。
is kind of a special anniversary for me,。
'cause we moved to Chicago on January 15th,。
as of tomorrow, 10 years ago,。
so when we moved here.。
And our family came,。
we just had these two at the time,。
our other three were born here,。
and we didn't grow up here,。
we were coming here from a state pretty far away,。
that's further south than the United States,。
so we were not used to these winters.。
And when we got here, it was very cold.。
We moved into an apartment,。
sight unseen, we had just found it on Craigslist,。
which was a thing back then,。
I know no one uses Craigslist anymore,。
but back then, people used to use Craigslist.。
And we found an apartment,。
and signed a lease,。
and pulled up in a big van with all of our stuff,。
and that was the first time we had actually seen it,。
other than the pictures,。
and went up the stairs.。
And we moved here,。
'cause we felt like God called us here to do ministry,。
so we were just trying to respond in obedience。
to what God was doing in our lives.。
And we did, all those things hit us right in the face,。
just the reality of being in the city,。
we hadn't lived in a city this big,。
but also the place we were living,。
and all the challenges of it.。
I mean, from the very first day,。
it was just all right there, and the cold.。
There was like a record-breaking,。
not record-breaking,。
but one of the top five snowstorms in Chicago history,。
I think, was about a week after that,。
snowed like 20 inches.。
And I remember just being like, what's happening?。
(laughing)。
And it was also a very cold winter,。
it was one of the winters when like 97% of the lake。
was frozen, and nothing thawed out。
until the third week of April.。
So it was just a shock to our system in so many ways.。
But like I said, we were just trying to obey the Lord.。
And I can honestly say that my wife and I had no idea。
(laughing)。
the things that we would encounter。
over the next 10 years in our life.。
A lot of joyful and beautiful things。
that we've gotten to experience,。
but a lot of really challenging things as well.。
Challenging things for my wife and I,。
challenging things in the life of our family,。
but very challenging things in ministry。
that were ahead for us.。
The thing that propelled us forward 10 years ago。
and still does today is this, the hope that we have in Christ.。
If it wasn't for that, there's no way I would have made it.。
No way I would have made it.。
A lot of people that I met at the time。
thought my wife and I were crazy for even trying,。
and we were.。
From an earthly perspective, it didn't make sense。
what God had called us to do.。
It really didn't make sense.。
And there's still plenty of days now。
when it doesn't make sense.。
But we have hope because of the God that we serve,。
the God who loves us, and because of the power of God。
that's in work in our lives through Christ.。
And that's true for each one of us in this room,。
for each one of us who's watching today.。
If you know Jesus and you have relationship with him,。
as you look forward in your life, you say,。
"Hey, I wanna obey.。
"And if I'm honest, I have no idea what that means。
"over the next two years or five years or 10 years,。
"or even over the next one year.。
"I have no idea what it means for me to walk with Jesus。
"and try to surrender to him and do what he has for me.。
"And there's probably stuff that I'm not prepared for,。
"and that if I knew about it now,。
"I would not wanna go forward."。
(laughs)。
Definitely some of those things in our life,。
that if we had known 10 years ago。
what we were gonna experience,。
we would've had some serious second thoughts.。
But we have this hope, and we need to know that hope,。
this hope that Paul prays over the Ephesian believers。
of the immeasurable riches of the grace of Christ.。
It work in us, and it pushes us forward,。
it propels us forward.。
Even when we encounter adversity and challenges,。
to know that God's power, the resurrection power,。
is at work in our lives through Christ,。
and that he has blessing and goodness。
and protection and peace even in those difficult times,。
and that he's at work, and that he's gonna use us,。
if we'll be obedient to him, he's gonna use us。
for his glory, and it will also be for our good。
because of his great love for us.。
That's the hope that we have, and that's the hope。
that as we start this year, I pray that we know。
and rejoice in that hope.。
Let's pray.。
God, I thank you for the hope that you give us,。
and God, I just pray over everyone in this room right now,。
and anyone who's watching online, God,。
I know that there are a lot of challenges。
and a lot of questions in this room,。
and a lot of things that we look at in our lives。
that maybe are happening right now,。
or maybe they're happening in the weeks and months to come,。
things that we look at and we say,。
God, we don't understand, we don't know how to navigate this.。
We see the brokenness of our world,。
we see the struggles in our own lives,。
and yet, God, there is such great hope in you.。
There is such great hope in the immeasurable riches。
of Christ that have been given to us by grace.。
So God, I pray that we would know that.。
We would know the hope that we have,。
and that it would propel us forward with strength。
and with confidence in you and with joy。
into whatever you have for us this year,。
into walking more deeply with you,。
into serving you in a deeper way than we ever have,。
into loving you and seeking you and knowing you。
more than we ever have in the past,。
into loving the people around us。
deeper than we ever have in the past.。
God, I pray that that hope would really propel us forward。
into what you have in our lives this year.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
