- Good morning, everyone.。
Well, I've been sick for a few days,。
so I've been suffering too.。
But that's okay, yeah.。
It's the last day of 2023.。
Today's the last day, as Jinfan said.。
This is, I think this is the best way。
we can conclude this year,。
end with the Lord's Day on Sunday.。
As we go from one year to the next,。
we will think about New Year resolutions, right?。
- Yes.。
- We all do, right?。
- Yes.。
- So what do you have in mind?。
Maybe physical exercise, learn something new,。
or maybe financial planning and all that.。
Maybe for those who go to school,。
probably you have some new plannings as well.。
Maybe for questions,。
sometimes we talk about reading the Bible together.。
Have we done the Bible reading last year?。
- Yes.。
- We finished it, right?。
No, I didn't finish it, I didn't join it.。
- Some of them.。
- Some of them, right?。
Well, give them a hand, yeah, give them a hand.。
Yeah, very good, very good.。
Usually churches do is to have some big sign。
or big banner saying,。
"New Year, we're gonna do this or do that," right?。
"We're gonna expand our church,。
"and we're gonna grow together,"。
and something like that.。
Today, I want to do something a little bit different.。
I want to tell you how life transformation work.。
Because as we set the New Year goals,。
as we set the New Year resolutions,。
or think about stuff like that,。
not only we need to set goals,。
but we need to understand how we reach the goal。
and how life change works.。
So my sermon title is Atomic Wisdom.。
Now, atomic does not mean destructive.。
Okay, I know there's atomic bomb,。
but it means tiny and insignificant, atomic particle,。
something really, really small.。
And I borrowed this title from a bestseller。
called "Atomic Habits" by James Clear.。
And this bestseller is recommended to me this year。
by actually Amanda, recommend me to read this book.。
And I find it's very insightful book.。
And the thesis of the book is success,。
all kinds of success, okay?。
Whether you're in school, whether you're in career,。
whether you're just doing exercise,。
just trying to be strong, all kinds of success。
is a product of daily, tiny habits,。
not a once in a lifetime action, you know?。
All kinds of changes, all kinds of positive changes。
have to be done in tiny little steps.。
And everyone can do that, and that's the good news.。
Now, this book is packed with insights。
from behavioral psychology.。
You know, behavioral psychologists observe the human nature,。
observe how we work, right, how we behave.。
And then they summarize the psychological dynamic.。
And as I read this book,。
I instantly, I thought of wisdom literature in the Bible.。
You know wisdom literature?。
How do you find the wisdom literature in the Bible?。
It's right in the middle, right?。
Some of the Psalms and Proverbs, Ecclesiastes,。
and the Book of Job, and those are wisdom literatures.。
It's always, wisdom literature has a feature,。
it is always short and clever sayings, tiny sayings.。
And it seems to instill us with tiny little wisdom。
here and there, and tell you some general truth。
about human nature, general truth about。
living a life of wisdom, living a life that is successful.。
Actually, in the Bible,。
wisdom is defined as practical skill.。
If you have wisdom, you live skillfully.。
You live skillfully to the life God has given you.。
So at times in wisdom literature in the Bible,。
observing human nature, and try to summarize it。
and teach us some of the general truths.。
So this sermon, I'm going to do some integration.。
I'm gonna go for some of the insights。
from behavioral psychology, and then we'll go into。
some of the passages from the Book of Proverbs,。
wisdom literature.。
So here, I want you to understand how life change works.。
All right, so whatever you have。
for your New Year resolutions, all right?。
If you don't have any New Year resolutions,。
this is time to think about it, okay?。
Time to think about it.。
But if you have New Year resolutions, how does it work?。
What are the principles that we can bring。
about changes in our lives?。
So here we go.。
First principle is the 1% power.。
1% power.。
That you do something tiny on a daily basis,。
even if this is 1%, and it's seemingly not obvious,。
the result will be exceptional.。
Now, so often in any goal we are pursuing,。
we attempt to set up some of the,。
some high and unrealistic expectations, right?。
Like I'm gonna read the whole Bible in two months.。
Okay, good luck to you, all right?。
You're not gonna happen, right?。
It's not gonna happen.。
If you set the goal, like next year, 2024,。
you're going to read the entire New Testament in one year,。
that may be more realistic, right?。
But sometimes when we set up a New Year goal,。
we have some unrealistic expectations,。
and it will require exceptional willpower.。
That's why we don't set New Year goals anymore,。
because we find ourselves failing all the time, right?。
You don't wanna fail, that's why you don't wanna set goals,。
right?。
That's kind of pessimistic, right?。
It's kind of sad.。
But this book says all kinds of changes happen atomically.。
Small, tiny changes.。
And far too often, tiny improvement。
will create long-term change.。
And that's how life change works.。
So think about daily habit.。
Daily, what can you do with just 1% effort, right?。
There's a chart in the book, I find it very insightful,。
talking about behavioral psychology.。
When you think of growth,。
we often think in a straight line, right?。
Linear progression, that's the red line right there.。
But actually, life change happens in the curve.。
In the curve.。
Notice the beginning of the curve.。
The progress is not obvious.。
And the author named the first phase,。
you know, it's not obvious in terms of the result.。
You don't see a lot of increase,。
you don't see a lot of obvious improvement yet.。
That, the yellow part, the author says,。
James Clear says, is the value of disappointment.。
Because you have done so much, right?。
And there's no result.。
And people usually give up at this point.。
So the encouragement is, if we do the 1%,。
which everyone can do, right?。
And you persist.。
And then, exponentially, changes will happen.。
So if you do 1% improvement for 365 days,。
the result at the end is 37.78 times better.。
Right?。
Isn't that cool?。
If you do just 1% every single day, 365 days,。
you will get the improvement result for 37 times.。
But if you do 1% decline, or you do nothing about it,。
or you keep on your bad habits,。
1% declines for 365 days, your result is close to zero.。
There's no improvement at all.。
Now, you can talk about any kind of result,。
or any kind of goal.。
Relationship, family, career, learning a new skill,。
emotional health, spiritual life, spiritual health.。
If you do negative talk all the time, right?。
You will have the graph, have the line at the bottom.。
You will decline, or you will see zero changes in your life.。
But if you do tiny habit, 1%, for 365 days,。
you will see a lot of improvements.。
Now that makes me think of wisdom literature,。
because all this wisdom sayings in the Bible,。
especially in the book of Proverbs,。
are usually one verse with two sub-verses,。
two parallel statements.。
Some of the wisdom sayings are two verses。
with parallel statements, but they are repetitive.。
They are tiny little statement, little and often.。
That is the spirit right there.。
Proverbs 1.7, that's the beginning of book of Proverbs.。
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge,。
but fools despise wisdom and discipline.。
The fear of the Lord is the beginning, right?。
The beginning, remember the beginning part。
of the life change curve.。
It doesn't see a lot of improvement, right?。
At least in the beginning, but it's so important.。
Now Proverbs doesn't do big talk.。
He always do small talks.。
Talking about beginning here.。
Talking about you persist from the beginning,。
then you will see along the line, 1%,。
remember 365 days you see potential changes, right?。
Three, 30 some times changes.。
Now some of the couples who got married in this church。
went through the premarital counseling with me.。
And the premarital counseling, I have about 10 sessions,。
and I always end with this one.。
It's a book called Love List.。
Now this book, we read this book,。
my wife and I read this book in our 10th anniversary,。
some years ago, right?。
So we went on a short vacation and we pick a book。
and we read together, right?。
How romantic is that?。
(audience laughing)。
So we read the book together.。
It's a tiny, tiny book called Love List.。
And it's a very interesting book and it's very insightful.。
Because people always think that a great relationship。
requires a lot of energy, requires a lot of expectations.。
Right, you gotta set a very, very high standard.。
You gotta do tons of things。
in order to have a mature, good relationship.。
The book says no.。
It doesn't work that way.。
Have you think about it?。
Think about it.。
It doesn't work that way.。
A successful relationship, a good relationship,。
doesn't work that way.。
It works because there are tiny, daily habits。
the couples or the people in the relationship。
are committed to do.。
And everyone can do it.。
And at the end of the book it says,。
once a day you do two things.。
Once a week you do two things.。
Once in six months you do two things.。
Once in a year you do two things.。
How many things you have to do?。
Eight, right?。
Only eight things.。
And once a day it says take time to touch.。
So, like for the couple, you take time to touch.。
If only for a minute, right?。
So in my household we express the touch。
by patting on the head.。
So I pat on the head of my wife, of my children.。
Yeah, you know, don't attack me, okay?。
It's like a dog, right?。
It's kind of cute, right?。
So what I do every single day is that I take the time,。
whether she's doing dishes or whatever,。
I go over there and, you know,。
I give her a touch for one minute.。
That's it.。
The second thing I do daily is to find something。
that make us both laugh, right?。
Life is stressful.。
You want your family, you want your relationship。
to be joyful, then you have to find something。
every single day that make you both laugh, right?。
Now that's easy to do, right?。
Scrolling on the phone and I saw some TikTok video.。
It's hilarious.。
I show it to her, right?。
She doesn't laugh, I laugh, right?。
That's okay, right?。
And that's what we do every single day.。
Once a day, we do two habits.。
Now again, the essence is it's the tiny habit。
that can change a lot of different things.。
Little and often, that is the key.。
Some of you know that I took a PhD seminar。
the middle of this year.。
This is the toughest class I've ever had.。
Not only me, but other students taking the class with me.。
They all think this is the toughest class。
in the entire degree.。
The class is advanced Hebrew grammar.。
Sounds fun, right?。
Sounds really fun, right?。
Advanced Hebrew grammar, right?。
So in order to pass this class, you have to pass a test,。
which is a biblical Hebrew vocabulary test.。
And it tests you for 100 random words,。
any word that appears in the Bible more than 50 times.。
All right?。
And the test will pick some of the random words。
and then list them out in Hebrew,。
and then you have to give a translation in English.。
And in order to pass the exam,。
you have to get 87 over 100.。
87, it's not 50.。
I heard it wrong.。
No, it's 87.。
And half of our class failed.。
Half of our class succeeded.。
It was kind of scary, right?。
So before the class, I took about two months.。
Actually, I delayed my start.。
I end up like five weeks before the class, before the exam.。
So what did I do?。
I simply used my downtime.。
You watch TV, there's commercial, right?。
Three minutes or four minutes.。
And then I go into the vocabulary book,。
and then I try to memorize them, right?。
I try to connect them and try to memorize it.。
And then there's sometimes downtime, right?。
When we have conversations together.。
I'll scroll up, open the book in my phone,。
and then I'll review the vocabularies.。
And that's what I do.。
And there are some other students。
who try to cram all these words into their brain。
one night or two nights, right?。
It's not going to work, right?。
So I passed the class.。
I passed the vocabulary test.。
What did I do?。
I did nothing significant.。
It's little and often, right?。
Most of you who are students, this is what you do, right?。
This is what you do.。
I remember I took Chemistry 101.。
There were 10 exams in the entire semester.。
I failed the first one because I missed the exam day.。
I show up on class, it was an exam day.。
I had nothing in my brain.。
So I failed the first test.。
And there are nine more tests to go.。
And what did I do?。
I made up my mind.。
I commit myself to be successful in this course。
because I don't want to retake it, right?。
It's gonna cost a lot of money.。
So what did I do?。
Every single class, right after we are dismissed,。
I go to the library and I review for one hour, right?。
Now, so often we attempted to think,。
"Okay, maybe we should go home, right?。
"If I go home, I get four hours to study, right?。
"And do you want four hours to study。
"or one hour to study?"。
Of course you want four hours, right?。
But what I did was I go to the library。
right after the class, while the material is still fresh,。
I'll review it only for one hour or so.。
And then I'll go home.。
And then I ace every single test, all nine of them.。
And then I got an A at the end.。
Again, it's the tiny changes, insignificant habits。
that would pave the path for fruitfulness.。
This is what we do for spiritual life as well, right?。
Proverbs 9, 10, "The fear of the Lord。
"is the beginning of wisdom.。
"Knowledge of the Holy One is understanding."。
You see the parallels here?。
What is the fear of the Lord?。
The fear of the Lord is that you fear God。
and you relate to God in a proper way.。
And that is the real knowledge of the Holy One.。
You know God and you fear Him and you are related to Him,。
you have a right relationship with God, your Creator.。
That is the foundation of small things.。
Small habits will go a long way.。
Now I want to test you.。
How many of you do push-ups?。
How many of you?。
How many push-ups can you do?。
How many?。
25?。
I do 40 push-ups every single day.。
It's not much.。
How did I begin?。
I begin with 10, right?。
And I add one the next day, I add five next week, right?。
And now I do 40 push-ups every single day, right?。
It's just my way to strengthen myself.。
How about plank?。
How many of you do plank?。
And how long do you do?。
I do four minute plank every single day.。
How did I start?。
I start one minute, right?。
And then one minute and 15 second, one minute and 30 second,。
two minute, three minute, and four minute, right?。
And my goal next year is five minutes, right?。
Now how do we do that?。
Small, tiny habit of 1% power.。
This goes the same way for our Bible reading。
and our daily prayer life, right?。
It doesn't have to be huge, significant change.。
It's not a massive action that God is calling for.。
It's just tiny, little habit that will change you,。
that will effect life changes.。
So 1% power, that's the first principle.。
The second principle is incentives。
and this incentive are effective.。
The behavioral psychologists find out。
if there's pain involved, if there's suffering involved,。
people are more likely to follow through,。
especially financial pain.。
That's why people pay money to go to gym, right?。
That's why you go to exercise class and you pay, right?。
After you pay the amount,。
there's more likelihood for you to go.。
The more likelihood you keep on doing physical exercise.。
When money is involved, the psychologist tells us。
your chances of success increase by three times.。
You pay to go to school, right?。
You better go to school because you pay for it, right?。
There's a website called stick.com。
and you sign up, you set up your goal。
and it will ask you to pay money。
to something that you hate, like an anti-charity, right?。
For those of you who don't support Trump,。
you donate to Trump.。
If you fail in your goal,。
if you fail to do your daily exercise。
or fail to meet your goal,。
you're gonna donate money to Trump that you hate, right?。
For those of you who hate Biden, you can choose Biden.。
And then when you meet your goal, you report it。
and then you stop the payment for your credit card, right?。
Money is involved.。
If you do that or you don't,。
you will kind of lose money。
and you better work on it, right?。
That's how it works.。
There's reward and disincentive.。
If there's incentive in your life-changing goals。
or new US solutions, the psychology is applied.。
The rate of success is better。
if there's incentive or disincentive.。
That's the same way in wisdom literature.。
It says one man gives freely if someone is generous to give,。
yet gains even more.。
Another withholds and comes to poverty.。
A generous man will prosper.。
He who refreshes others will himself be refreshed.。
What is the incentive here?。
What is the reward here?。
The Bible says that if you honor your wealth,。
you honor God with your money, you will increase.。
You will benefit others and you will benefit yourself.。
That is what Jesus said.。
You lay up treasures in heaven, not on earth.。
And then your reward will be heavenly, right?。
If you will believe in the gospel,。
you believe in eternal life, right?。
The reward is eternal.。
The reward is there.。
So once you think about, okay, I need to do maybe New Year.。
One of my resolutions is to be faithful in tithes and offering,。
to be generous, right?。
Not to hold tight to the wealth God has given to me,。
but to benefit other people,。
to give it, to support the ministry or support the church。
or support the cause that is heavenly,。
that is gospel related.。
You need to understand there's reward。
and the reward will be great.。
There is incentive there.。
But if you do not want to do that, if you withhold,。
then there's this incentive.。
Your life becomes poor, right?。
It's always needy.。
If you practice generosity, then God will honor you,。
He will bless you,。
He will continue to make your life rich.。
That is the incentive and disincentive there.。
So think about your New Year resolutions.。
What are the incentives or what are the disincentive, right?。
Yeah, one of the disincentive I can think of,。
if you want to read the Bible next year,。
if you fail your goal, you sign up stick.com。
and you give me $500,。
that would be a great motivation for you, right?。
Because you don't want the $500 to go into my pocket, right?。
And I promise you, if you fail in your goal,。
you give me $500 at the end of the year,。
I'm gonna keep it for you.。
I won't use it, I won't spend it,。
and then the following year, if you meet your goal,。
I'll give it back, right?。
And those kind of incentives or disincentives,。
you can think of in your New Year resolutions,。
and that is wisdom.。
Number three, specifics are better.。
Now the wisdom literature。
use a lot of different illustrations to talk about wisdom,。
usually animals and creatures on Earth.。
Sometimes these creatures don't seem to be strong,。
don't seem to be wise, but the observers,。
you know, wisdom teacher are good observers.。
They observe the creation,。
they observe how the creatures work, right?。
And then they learn lessons of wisdom.。
They learn how to be wise.。
Chapter six, it says, "Go to the end,。
"use lucker, consider the ways and be wise."。
They don't have commander, they don't have ruler,。
they don't have king, yet they store provisions in summer,。
and gather the food at harvest,。
at the right time, specific time, right?。
And that is wisdom.。
And psychologist tells us the more specific your goals are,。
the likelihood the success will be.。
If your goals are general, you know, non-specific,。
you are planning to fail.。
And there's a study done in UK on physical exercise.。
So they divide the people into two groups.。
First group, group A, is that people who are committed。
to do exercise on a daily basis,。
and they do the checkbox, okay?。
I'm gonna commit to do pushup, do crunches,。
do plank, walk a little bit, right?。
They check the checkbox.。
That's group A.。
And they follow through,。
and the success rate for this group, group one, is 35%.。
Group B, they also do the checkbox,。
but they write specifics to their goals.。
Like time of the day, day of the week that they do exercise,。
and how long exactly, how many minutes that they going to do.。
20 minutes they gonna check, and then write it down.。
And they specify the exact time, place,。
where, when to do the goal.。
And the success rate is 91%.。
Three times higher.。
So the more specific that you go,。
the more successful you will be, right?。
Your goals will be achieved,。
and the likelihood to have result is higher.。
Let's say you wanna commit yourself。
to restructure your worship life, okay?。
Every single week, the Lord's Day,。
you're gonna come here and worship, right?。
And that's a very, very good goal, right?。
That's a very good goal, because as the people of God,。
we need to worship Him, right?。
The day of Sabbath, or day of celebrations,。
day of worship, we set aside time for God, right?。
Every single week.。
That's a good goal, but it's very general.。
To be more specific, you should say,。
I'm gonna commit myself to worship God。
every single Sunday, and I'm gonna come here。
at 11.16 in the morning.。
By 11.16, my butt is here.。
And I'm gonna sit at the same place every single week.。
The when and where are specified,。
and the rate of success is higher.。
That, the same way goes for any kind of goal.。
Your physical health, emotional health,。
or even your spiritual health.。
That's how it works.。
And then another principle, number four,。
and that's the last one I'll continue next week.。
Is community influences you.。
It has power to impact you.。
The people that you hang out with,。
the people that you build friendship with,。
the people who are part of your family。
will have impact on you, and the impact is significant.。
Proverbs says the same thing, 13.20.。
Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise.。
And the friends or the companion of fools will suffer harm.。
If you wanna experience destruction,。
you hang out with the fools.。
If you want to have wisdom,。
if you wanna have successful life,。
you walk with other who are wise as well.。
And there's a study on the effect of people。
on one's behavior.。
You know, how people around them behave。
will affect that specific person.。
So that study is very interesting.。
They send out actors, actresses, to the buffet line.。
You know, you go to a buffet restaurant,。
and you pick up some food, right, on your plate,。
and the actors are being taught to go into the buffet line,。
and they pile up all kinds of food on the plate.。
You know, the more they get, the better, right?。
So the actors act that way in order to influence。
those who are not acting.。
You know, the typical restaurant customers,。
they're trying to line up at the buffet to get their food.。
And they wanna see how this will influence the next person,。
and how much food they will get, right?。
It's very interesting.。
The result is, the result for men and women are different.。
Men has no impact.。
For women, because the next person is piling up more food,。
the women are more likely to get more food.。
The point is, your community works.。
You gather, you study the Bible with other people,。
you join a class for exercise,。
you go to a fellowship group, you study in the library,。
the environment, other people will have impact on you.。
So in order to increase the rate of success,。
you have to find the right community.。
You cannot do solo.。
Let's say you wanna improve your academic study.。
What is the best way?。
For me, if I study at home, it would not be helpful for me,。
because my wife doesn't study.。
She's listening to music and watching TV show.。
Huge distractions, right?。
Huge temptations.。
I have to go away from her, right?。
I have to go somewhere that is fruitful。
for my study, like library, right?。
Or be myself, be by myself.。
So the whole point is, you have to find friends。
and people who can influence you positively, right?。
So there are more insights I can share,。
or more wisdom I can share, and that will be next week.。
But today, I would like to conclude。
with some of the suggestions I have.。
It's for the new year, 2024, new year.。
I'll suggest three areas you should think。
about new year resolutions, new year goals for you.。
First is spiritual health.。
How important that is, very, very important.。
It's very important you will take time。
to read the word of God, right?。
Not just reading more of the Bible,。
it's learning how to read better,。
how to be a good reader of scripture,。
praying, prayer life, it's part of our spiritual health.。
Right, we receive the word of God。
through reading scripture, we talk to God。
in our daily prayer, right?。
And part of the good things about going to fellowship。
is that we can pray together.。
And by praying together, somebody is praying,。
people around you are praying,。
and it will influence you, impact you to pray.。
Worship is part of it.。
Take time that is set apart for worshiping God。
to come in person, right, if possible.。
Come in person and worship God.。
Spiritual health, you know, you need to set some goals,。
or maybe you should read a spiritual book,。
a Christian book, a good book。
that will help you grow spiritually.。
2024, maybe you should pick one of the good books out there,。
right, in the library, or you want some recommendation。
I can give to you.。
In the morning service, I talk about this,。
and right after, a couple of people talk to me,。
"Hey, can you recommend one or two。
"for me to read through in 2024?"。
Spiritual health, emotional health.。
New year, 2024, it just dawned on me this year。
that the emotional life for every single one of us。
is so important.。
How do we manage different emotions?。
How do we manage them well?。
I'll have more to talk about next week,。
but this is something for you to think about.。
You know, your emotional health impacts。
your spiritual relationship with God,。
and your spiritual relationship with God。
impact your emotional life as well.。
And number three is physical health, physical health.。
You wanna be stronger and stronger, right?。
And live a healthy lifestyle, right?。
Stay strong and stay healthy, right?。
Set some goals for yourself, right?。
And then remember, 1% is powerful, right?。
Do tiny little changes, little and often,。
and then at the end of the year,。
you get results 30-some percent of 30-some times results.。
And let's do that.。
And my final prayer for you,。
and we're gonna pray together,。
is that dear God, as this year comes to an end,。
help me to know what I need to get rid of。
in order to have more room for you,。
for what you have in store for my life.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we wanna give you thanks。
because in this entire year,。
from the beginning to the end to today, you are faithful.。
Yes, we go through our life journey with ups and downs,。
and with all these turns and twists,。
but we continue to acknowledge that you are faithful.。
You're faithful to us,。
and thank you for your loving kindness.。
In the next year, in the new year to come,。
we know we are not in control,。
but we do know that we need to make room for you,。
for your blessing, for your grace,。
for your work in our lives.。
And I pray that you will continue to help us。
to be obedient, to be open,。
to listen to your voice,。
so that in the next year, 2024,。
we look forward to walking with you,。
to experience you, to go deeper with you,。
to get to know you better, get to know you more.。
Help us to rebuild, reestablish。
some of the tiny daily habits,。
habits that are life-changing,。
habits that are seemingly tiny and insignificant,。
but will make our life fruitful.。
And I pray that we'll read your scripture more,。
pray to you more, and worship you more, and give more.。
And I pray that you'll grant us wisdom。
to manage our emotions.。
Help us to go to you when we are in need.。
And Father, we commit our whole body into your hand,。
knowing that our physical health。
will impact every single area,。
our emotional life, our spiritual health, and vice versa.。
And I pray that we'll grow holistically.。
So we put our hope in you, knowing that in year 24,。
you have so much in store for us,。
because you are our good God.。
I pray that we'll experience your love and your grace.。
And help our church to grow together,。
so that we will honor you,。
and proclaim your name in Christ, in praise.。
Well, God bless you, and see you next year.。
(claps)。
