All right. Good morning, UV. I hope all of you had a great Thanksgiving this past week,。
whether it is spending time with family, with friends, enjoying some good and delicious。
Thanksgiving food, or also just buy some new stuff on Black Friday. So I got a chance to。
went to the suburbs and spend Thanksgiving with a family from my previous church, Dennis。
and Emily. So it was great to be able to catch up with them again and also hang out with。
three of their teenage kids, because all three of them were also my youth students at my。
youth group in my last church. And it is always fun to get to be reminded of kind of like。
the interesting or funny ways that those three siblings interact with one another. So all。
that to say, I had a great Thanksgiving. And I also want to acknowledge that as we enter。
into these holiday seasons, this might be a season that is not a joyful season for some。
of us, that this can be a challenging season, especially if there's conflicts within your。
families or this time of grieving for some of you. So I want to acknowledge that. And。
also, I just want to say, I hope during this Advent season leading up to Christmas, I pray。
that the Lord would meet each and every one of us in a specific ways as well. Okay, so。
this past September, I had the opportunity to go back home to Malaysia to visit some。
of my friends and also family. And when I step into my house, I immediately notice something。
different from the last time that I was home about seven years ago. So on one side of the。
living room is actually a whole new set of wooden cabinets. And without having to ask。
my mom much about it, I can pretty much guess what happened to the old cabinets. It is termite。
infestation. So growing up, termites is always an issue at my house. And if you don't know。
about termites, let me give you a quick biology lessons about termites. So termites, they're。
tiny little insects that look pretty much like an ant. However, they're a lot more destructive。
than our regular house ants. So for these termites, they like to feed on dead plants,。
they like to feed on trees or any sort of like wooden structures. And they usually prefer。
to hide in dark and humid environment. So you normally won't find them like feeding。
on the surface of the wooden structure at all. And in fact, the wood surface might appear。
completely fine, even though the termites are destroying them from the inside. And this。
is pretty much what happened to some of the wooden cabinets at my home. While they look。
totally fine from the outside, there were just a lot of hollow parts inside those cabinets。
that they're just not structurally sound anymore, to the point that they have to be completely。
replaced. And you guys have to know that this cabinet is a kind of like a central piece。
in like in my house in the living room. This is where we put our TV. This is where we put。
our sound system. And there's also a lot of like storage space where we put like our old。
photo albums. So it is a pretty important piece. And to see it being replaced because。
of the termites, it kind of like hurts me a little as well. So we have been slowly going。
through Jesus' Sermon on the Mount verse by verse for the past couple of months. And at。
this point, you might ask, "Hey, Chi, what does the termites or the termites infested。
cabinet have to do with Jesus' Sermon on the Mount?" Well, just like this wooden furniture。
that appears completely fine from the outside, but they're just not functional anymore because。
of the termites. The issue that Jesus had with how the scripture was being taught and。
lived out by the religious leaders of his days is that these religious leaders, they。
approached this law that Jesus gave them or that God gave them in the Old Testament from。
a very surface level, but they completely missed the heart of God behind the law. And。
as a result of that, the worship, just like this termite infested furniture, the worship。
became an empty religion that has pretty much lost its function and its purpose as well.。
So in my past few sermons, we have looked at the Beatitudes and explored together what。
a truly blessed life looks like. We have also studied the different characters and qualities。
that represent life in the kingdom of heaven. And in my last sermon, we look at how we can。
experience this truly blessed life, that is by following Jesus and living in full submission。
to him and his commands. Jesus is the only way and only truth that will lead to a flourishing。
life because he is the only one that can fulfill the law and the prophets. And what this means。
is that the law and the prophets or the Old Testament scripture in its entirety, they。
ultimately points forward to Jesus and Jesus becomes the official interpreter of this Old。
Testament scripture. So today we're going to look at first of the six examples of how。
Jesus fulfilled the scripture by revealing the true intent and the true purpose behind。
this law. And just a quick background, each of the six examples that we will be looking。
at from Matthew five, verse 21 to 48, they all begin with the same formula. You have。
heard that it was saved. And this formula in Jesus's time, when a Jewish rabbi, he。
want to begin a discussion about a specific mosaic law, they will usually introduce the。
discussion with this formula. You have heard that it was saved and then the mosaic law.。
So in the same way, Jesus begins each of his six discussion by using something that his。
audience will already be familiar with, and that is in line with the rabbinic tradition.。
But each and every time Jesus would take this one step further and he would go on and give。
his own interpretation. But I tell you this. So if you have your Bible with you, please。
turn to Matthew chapter five and we're going to read from verse 21 to 26. Matthew chapter。
five, verse 21 to 26. You have heard that it was saved to the people long ago. You shall。
not murder and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone。
who is angry with a brother or sister will be subject to judgment. Again, anyone who。
says to a brother or sister, Raka is answerable to the court and anyone who says you fool。
will be in danger of the fire of hell. Therefore, if you're offering your gift at the altar。
and there, remember that your brother or sister has something against you. Leave your gift。
there in front of the altar. First, go and be reconciled to them. Then come and offer。
your gift. Settle matters quickly with your adversary who is taking you to the court.。
Do it while you're still together on the way or your adversary may hand you over to the。
judge and the judge may hand you over to the officer and you may be thrown into the prison.。
Truly I tell you, you will not get out until you have paid the last penny. This is the。
word of God. Let us pray. Father, as we open up your word this morning, I just ask that。
your spirit will be with us, that your spirit will fill our heart and prepare us to receive。
the word that you have for us today. Amen. Okay. So in my last sermon, we ended in verse。
20 looking at kind of like what kind of righteousness that is required for us to enter the kingdom。
of heaven, right? And for Jesus, the righteousness according to the Pharisees and the teachers。
of the law, they ultimately fall short of God's standard because their version of righteousness。
only concerns about outward actions or kind of like sort of like a behavioral management.。
On the other hand, the righteousness according to Jesus, it doesn't just deal with our outward。
actions but it cuts straight to our inner motivations and our core desires that impacts。
how we relate to other people. So the example that we will be looking at today is centered。
around the sixth commandment, you shall not murder. And we'll take a look at how Jesus。
moved past just a literal understanding of this commandment straight to the root issues。
of these actions. And the message that Jesus has for us is that Jesus had for us is this.。
While we may never commit the act of murder, we can still unintentionally allow the same。
kind of attitude to take root and permeate in our heart. I can probably say with 99%。
confidence that none of us here in this room have committed a murder, right? But again,。
what Jesus is kind of like warning us against is that we can still unintentionally allow。
the same kind of attitude to take root and to grow in our heart. So let's look at the。
first point together. Jesus demands a higher righteousness from us. Jesus demands a higher。
righteousness from us. So Jesus begin by saying, you have heard that it was said to the people。
long ago, you shall not murder. So this first part actually, as we have looked at just now,。
this comes from the sixth commandment that the Lord gave to Moses, the Lord gave to the。
people of Israel through Moses at Mount Sinai in the book of Exodus. But then we see that。
there is a penalty being added on to this. It says anyone who murders will be subject。
to judgment. So this add-on penalty is actually part of the judicial process in the Jewish。
court system. And by attaching this penalty to the sixth commandments, it tell us one。
important thing. It tell us that Jesus, he's actually not speaking against the Mosaic law。
or the Torah itself. No, as we have established last time, Jesus himself clarifies, I have。
not come to abolish the law. So what Jesus is trying to correct here is the Torah as。
traditionally interpreted and understood by the Jewish people. One that is being taught。
in the synagogue or one that is being passed down in the family or in the Jewish culture。
as well. So Jesus, he is not reacting against the Mosaic law itself. But what Jesus is reacting。
against is a shallow and legalistic understanding of the law. So this is when the Lord gave。
the 10 commandments for the first time at Mount Sinai. Now in a similar setting on the。
mountainside, Jesus is trying to go back to the heart of God behind these commandments.。
One that is not tainted by any of our human interpretation or human tradition. So what。
is the heart of God behind the commandments of you shall not murder? Let's look with me。
again. Verse 21, you have heard that it was said to the people long ago, you shall not。
murder and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone who。
is angry with a brother or sister will be subject to judgment. So here, Jesus, he goes。
beyond the shallow understanding of the sixth commandment straight to the root issues behind。
murder. That is anger and contempt towards brothers or sister. So the brothers and sister。
here usually used to refer to the communities of believers, just like how we call one another。
brothers and sisters in Christ. But I think in this context, we can actually apply this。
to those outside of our community of faith as well. So while the traditional understanding。
of the sixth commandment say that anyone who murders will be subject to judgment, Jesus。
brings in a higher righteousness by claiming that anyone who is angry with a brother or。
sister will be subject to judgment. So according to our human standard of righteousness, you。
might be completely innocent because you have never committed murder. But according to the。
righteousness defined by Jesus himself, your anger makes you guilty before God and liable。
to the same kind of judgment. And then Jesus continued, again, anyone who says to a brother。
or sister, "Raca," is answerable to the court. So "raca" here is actually a loan word from。
Aramaic, and it doesn't really mean much, but it is used as a derogatory term to call。
someone as empty-headed. So if you say someone's head is empty, that means there's like no。
brain inside, right? So this is kind of like similar to calling someone, "You have no brain."。
And Jesus say, "Anyone who says to a brother or sister, 'Raca,' is answerable to the court."。
And this court is the high court in the Jewish court system, which is the Sanhedrin. And。
anyone who says, "You fool," will be in danger of the fire of hell or Gehenna. So the NIV,。
which is the translation that I use here, actually smoothed this out a little bit. But。
fire of hell, in other translation, is being translated as Gehenna. And Gehenna is used。
to refer to a place that is south of Jerusalem called the Hinnom Valley. And what is the。
significance of this place, the Valley of Hinnom? In the Old Testament, the Valley of。
Hinnom is where child sacrifice were being offered to the pagan god, Molech. And we see。
this in places like 2 Kings. When King Josiah renewed the covenant with the people of Israel。
and with the Lord, this is what 2 Kings says. "He," referring to King Josiah, "He desecrate。
Topeth, which was in the Valley of Ben Hinnom. So no one could use it to sacrifice their。
son or daughter in the fire to Molech." And during Jesus' time, this place, Gehenna, or。
the Hinnom Valley, is used as a place where garbage were being disposed and then burned。
day and night. So if you just look out from Jerusalem and look towards this direction。
of the Hinnom Valley, you will see fire being burned day in and day out. And I can imagine。
the smells probably doesn't smell really good as well, right? So Gehenna basically becomes。
a metaphor for the fire of hell. So Jesus say, "Anyone who says, 'You fool,' will be。
in danger of Gehenna," or in danger of the fire of hell. And here in verse 22, we also。
see sort of like a progression. Jesus begins by talking about an internal attitude or feeling。
of anger. And then he move on to kind of like that anger being expressed outwardly by showing。
contempt to a brother or a sister. And what is contempt? I feel like this is probably。
a word that we don't usually use in our day-to-day language, right? So according to Oxford languages,。
contempt is the feeling that a person or a thing is beneath consideration, worthless,。
or deserving scorn. Again, contempt is the feeling that a person or a thing is beneath。
consideration, is worthless, or deserving scorn. And how is contempt being shown here。
in the examples that Jesus gave? It is by insulting a brother or a sister with names。
like "raka" or "fool." And showing contempt is actually not just about actively belittling。
someone. Showing contempt can take the form of passive indifference or being cold to someone.。
Maybe at your house, your spouse has been trying to ask you to help with some of the。
things at the house, whether it is fixing a broken light bulbs or kind of like to mow。
the lawns or to take the trash out. But every time when your spouse kind of like bring this。
request before you, you might be listening, but you're actually not. And you're just responding。
in a way that is like trying to get them off your back so that you can continue with whatever。
you're doing. Or maybe you're walking down the street in Chicago and you saw a homeless。
person kind of like slowly approaching you. And at that moment, you just kind of like。
say to yourself, "Okay, I'm just going to ignore this person because he or she is probably。
not worth my time. I'm just going to like continue with whatever I'm going on." So this。
kind of passive indifference or treating someone coldly is also a form of contempt as well.。
And so what Jesus is saying that if you show anger or contempt towards your brother or。
sister, you will face judgment both here on earth in a human court and also before the。
Lord with the fire of hell. And you might ask, "Jesus, why do you take anger and contempt。
so seriously and kind of like put them on par with murder in some cases?" I think this。
is because behind anger and contempt is a posture of disregarding the value and worth。
of a person made in the image of God. And this is exactly the same kind of attitude。
behind murder. When someone doesn't take life of another image very seriously or take。
the life as sacred and worthy to be treated with respect and dignity.。
And I want to be clear here. What Jesus is not saying is that anger as an emotion in。
and of itself is a sin. If you just read through the Psalms, you can see all kind of raw emotions,。
right? There's joyful emotions, happy, there's grief, there's lament, and there's also anger.。
And in a lot of cases, God welcomes us to pour out our raw emotions before Him, including。
our anger. So what Jesus is not saying is that anger as an emotion in and of itself。
is a sin. And we also see Jesus himself express his anger as well. We see Jesus getting。
furious at the money changers and the merchants at the temple. And he even kind of like pull。
out a whip to drove them out of the temple because they were taking advantage of the。
pilgrims that came all the way to the temple to worship the Lord.。
We see Jesus express his anger towards the legalistic way that some of the Pharisees。
practice the law by prioritizing the Sabbath rituals over actually allowing Jesus to heal。
a man that is in need. We also see Jesus became angry at death itself when he stood in front。
of the tomb of his friends Lazarus that has just passed away. So I want to be clear. There。
is a time and a place for anger. And the kind of righteous anger that is expressed in the。
right way with the right intention towards the right thing is not a sin. And in fact,。
if you never felt angry towards any of the injustice or the brokenness in our world around。
us, I might dare to say that you might not be living in according with the Holy Spirit.。
However, the anger that Jesus talks about here is a kind of destructive anger that is。
being directed towards another person made in the image of God. This is the kind of anger。
that Jesus is speaking up against. So after laying out his standard of righteousness,。
Jesus then continues to give two applications on the response that he requires from us when。
anger and contempt is present in our community and our relationship with other people.。
So verse 23, "Therefore, if you're offering your gift at the altar and there remember。
that your brother or sister has something against you, leave your gift there in front。
of the altar. First, go and be reconciled to them. Then come and offer your gift. Settle。
matters quickly with your adversary who is taking you to court. Do it while you are still。
together on the way, or your adversary may hand you over to the judge, and the judge。
may hand you over to the officer, and you may be thrown into prison. Truly I tell you,。
you will not get out until you have paid the last penny."。
So here's my second point. Jesus demands a better response from us. Jesus demands a better。
response from us. For Jesus, the antidote to the issues of anger and contempt towards。
others is reconciliation. So the better response that Jesus requires from us is to actively。
pursue justice and seek reconciliation. Let's look at the first situation here. "Therefore,。
if you are offering your gift at the altar." So I want you all to notice the present tense。
here. "If you are offering your gift at the altar." The situation that Jesus described。
here involves the Jewish sacrificial system where someone is in the process of bringing。
the gifts to the altar in the Jerusalem temple. And obviously, we don't practice this kind。
of sacrificial system anymore in our church nowadays, right? So I think it would be helpful。
to give a little background to what Jesus is describing here so that it will help us。
better understand what is Jesus asking from us exactly. For the disciples that Jesus is。
speaking to, a lot of them came from the town of Galilee, and they usually only go to the。
temple in Jerusalem once or twice a year during one of the three festivals, the Passover,。
the Feast of Weeks, or the Feast of Tabernacles. And the journey from Galilee to Jerusalem。
can take anywhere from three to four days to one whole week, depending on which route。
they choose. And once you get into the temple in Jerusalem, you still have to wait in a。
long line, perhaps for a couple more days, to be able to finally offer your gifts that。
you brought with you at the altars. So the scenarios that Jesus is trying to paint here。
is that after an exhausting journey to get all the way from Galilee to Jerusalem, and。
then waiting in line for a couple more days, it is finally time for you to offer your gifts。
at the altar. So just think of all the efforts it takes to get to this point. But then Jesus。
continues, "And there, remember that your brother or sister has something against you."。
You might miss this if you don't read it carefully, so I'm going to read it again. It says, "If。
you're offering your gifts at the altar, and there, remember that your brother or sister。
has something against you." Did you guys catch that? In this situation, it is the other party。
that has something against you, and you might very well be innocent at all. But then Jesus。
gives this command to his disciples, "Leave your gift there in front of the altar. First,。
go and be reconciled to them. Then come and offer your gift." So a lot of the time, our。
natural tendency when something goes wrong is to point fingers at other people or to。
shift the blame, right? But for Jesus, it is not about who is at fault, but the greater。
righteousness and the better response that Jesus demands from us is this, that we take。
the initiative to make things right and to seek reconciliation whenever possible. Of course,。
I want to be sensitive here, and I understand there are some exceptions to this, such as。
when someone is just not repentant, or in the case when someone is a victim of abuse,。
where seeking reconciliation with their abuser might not be the wise thing to do. However,。
in most cases, I will say that I agree with Apostle Paul when he emphasized this in Romans.。
If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone. So for Jesus,。
he understands that the presence of anger and conflict within the community of believers。
can be so destructive that he actually commands his disciples to leave the gift at the altar,。
go back and reconcile with the person, and then come back and offer your gift. Even if。
it means that you have to walk a few more days' journey back to Galilee, and then walk。
a few more days' journey back to Jerusalem again, and then you have to wait in line all。
over again just to offer your gift at the altar. So Jesus might be using some hyperbole。
here, but I think his point is still the same. This is the kind of radical response that。
Jesus demands from us as his followers, a way of living that prioritizes seeking reconciliation。
and pursuing justice within the community of believers, even over our religious rituals。
or our religious worship. And then Jesus continues in verse 25. "Settle matters quickly with。
your adversary who is taking you to the court. Do it while you are still together on the。
way, or your adversary may hand you over to the judge, and the judge may hand you over。
to the officer, and you may be thrown into prison. Truly I tell you, you will not get。
out until you have paid the last penny." So in these second examples, Jesus extends his。
application to those outside of the community of faith, from how we relate to other brother。
and sister to now on how we relate to an enemy or an adversary. While we might not be the。
guilty party in the previous situation, this time we are clearly at fault. But regardless,。
Jesus warns us that reconciliation is an urgent matter, and we need to make peace with our。
enemy before it is too late. If not, we will have to pay the full price for our own actions.。
And church, this is the better response that Jesus demands from us, that reconciliation。
and justice is an urgent matter, and it should take priority over our rituals' worships.。
Why? Because God cares more about justice and righteousness than religious rituals and。
anti-worship. So I want to end this section by taking a look at Micah 6 to 8. So Micah,。
he is the prophet to the southern kingdom of Judah. And during his time, there was just。
a lot of injustice among the religious leaders and prophets in Judah, from bribery, showing。
favoritism to the wealthy, all the way to stealing from the poor and even taking away。
their land. So this section of Micah 6 is a poem in the form of question and answer.。
And right here you will see this person is asking the question. He is desperate to figure。
out what kind of things he should bring when he comes before the Lord and worship Him.。
And he is ready to pretty much offer anything that he has to the Lord. So look at verse。
6 together. "With what shall I come before the Lord and bow down before the exalted God?。
Shall I come before Him with burnt offerings, with calves a year's old?" So burnt offerings,。
out of all the different types of offerings in the Old Testament, is the most costly one。
because you pretty much have to burn out the entire animals and there's like nothing left。
for you to be taken home and to be eaten. And the calves a year old is usually also。
considered the best kind of calves and the best kind of animals to use for the burnt。
offerings. And then this person continues, "Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of。
rams or with ten thousands rivers of olive oil?" So now we see he switched from kind。
of like quality to quantity now. Thousands of rams or ten thousands rivers of olive oil.。
And it seems like this is still not enough. He then continues, "Shall I offer my firstborn。
for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?" So now he comes to。
a point where he's willing to offer up even his own son that is the most valuable possession。
that someone can have. But listen to how the Lord responds to him.。
"He has shown you, O mortal, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you? To。
act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God."。
So God doesn't really care about how expensive or valuable our offering to him is. Or God。
doesn't really care about how big our worship service is or how many people attend our church.。
What he cares about is for us to act in a way that is aligned with his heart, that is。
to act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with him. When there's anger and contempt。
or any form of injustice in our community or in our worship, Jesus says that our worship。
is compromised. So here's what I want all of us to take away。
from our passage today. Because Jesus cares about how we relate to people made in his。
own image, we need to actively pursue justice and seek reconciliation. This is the higher。
righteousness that Jesus demands of us, that we treat every human made in his own image。
with the utmost respect and dignity. And this is the better response that Jesus requires。
of us, that we actively pursue justice and seek reconciliation. So once again, because。
Jesus cares about how we relate to people made in his own image, we need to actively。
pursue justice and seek reconciliation. So before I end, I have two application questions。
here that I want all of us to spend some time to reflect on. So as we come to the end of。
the year, is there someone that you need to reach out and seek reconciliation with? Are。
there certain people or group of people that we are tempted to show contempt towards, including。
passive indifference? Ask the Lord for forgiveness and for a transformed heart. So we'll spend。
some time to reflect on these questions and after that, I think Mark will come up and。
lead us in communion.。
[MUSIC]。
