her today, Sam.。
(audience applauding)。
- Good morning.。
I'm honored to be here and excited to be here.。
Privileged to be with you in worship today.。
Thank you to the worship team for leading us.。
I really enjoyed that time of worship in the Lord.。
And this morning we're gonna talk about something。
that is really important for us,。
especially in the modern world that we live in,。
and that is learning to love dependence,。
learning to love dependence.。
And that's a difficult thing for us.。
Dependence is not a cultural value。
that we are used to embracing.。
We live in a culture that really values,。
especially in the United States,。
really values individualism and independence,。
self-reliance, self-sufficiency.。
We all feel like that's how we should live。
and that's how we wanna be.。
We feel like we don't want to need anyone else.。
We don't want to have to rely on anyone else.。
We wanna be strong and get through things on our own.。
But the reality is that's not a biblical value.。
And in fact, what the Bible teaches us is the opposite.。
The Bible teaches us that we are hopelessly dependent。
on God and that we're also,。
God made us to be interdependent on one another。
in the church.。
And so our cultural instincts in the world around us。
kinda fight against that.。
We say, no, I don't wanna be dependent on God.。
I don't wanna be dependent on others.。
I wanna do everything on my own.。
But we have to learn to embrace the fact that we're human。
and that God made us with limitations。
and that we need him and that we need one another.。
So that's what we're gonna speak about this morning.。
We're gonna look at this verse in Genesis chapter two,。
verse seven, just one verse.。
And if you're not familiar with what's going on。
in Genesis two, this is when God is creating.。
And so in Genesis one, God's created the universe。
and everything in it.。
He's created the earth, he's created the animals。
and the plants that are on the earth.。
And in Genesis two, Genesis one is like an overview。
of creation, it gives all the different things God created。
and the days and when they were created.。
And then Genesis two is like zooming in on day six,。
which is when humans were created。
and giving us more detail about when we were created.。
And so in verse seven, it tells us, speaking about us,。
it says, "Then the Lord God formed the man of dust。
"from the ground and breathed into his nostrils。
"the breath of life, and the man became a living creature."。
That's our origin story right there.。
The origin story of humanity,。
not as glamorous as we think, right?。
We didn't get bitten by a radioactive spider。
or come from an alien planet.。
We got made out of dust and dirt.。
That's our origin story, that God formed us from dust。
and he literally breathed life into us.。
And not just life, but our soul。
and everything that it means to be human.。
We know in, earlier in Genesis 1, 26 and 27,。
it says that God made us in his image.。
And one of the things that we need to understand about God。
that helps us to understand ourselves is who God is.。
And one of the most significant aspects。
of Christian theology is the truth。
that God is completely distinct。
from all of the created order.。
God is in a class to himself.。
Everything else that has been created,。
everything that we interact with,。
everything in our world was created or made.。
The natural things were made by God.。
Buildings and things like that were built by humans.。
But everything we see and interact with。
was created at some point。
and it had a beginning point in time。
and it will have an end point in time, including us.。
But that's not true of God.。
God is completely different。
than everything in the created order.。
We see in Genesis that God, in the beginning,。
God, he already existed before the beginning of the universe.。
God was pre-existing, he was eternal.。
He needs nothing from no one to exist.。
That's who God is.。
And that's important to help us understand who we are.。
Because God made us in his image,。
but not the other way around.。
We are like God in some ways.。
God made us in his image.。
So God gave us a soul, this spiritual part of us。
that can have relationship with him.。
God gave us some of the things that we see in our own lives.。
We see the appreciation for beauty and creativity。
and a desire for relationship.。
Those are reflections of God.。
God obviously loves beauty and he's very creative.。
And he is a relational being.。
Even in the beginning of Genesis there,。
we see God as father, son, and the Holy Spirit。
in the act of creation.。
God's a relational being.。
And we are too.。
We're made in God's image.。
We're like God in some ways.。
But God is not like us in any way.。
And so we have to understand,。
when we start to think about who God is,。
God is completely beyond us.。
And we are finite creations of the infinite God.。
God is unlimited in every way.。
He has all knowledge, he has all power.。
His attributes are unlimited.。
He is not just loving, but he is perfect love.。
He's the definition of what love is.。
That's how we know love, because of God.。
He is just.。
That's how we know what justice is.。
Because God is the definition of perfect justice.。
He is holy.。
That's how we know what's right and holy in the world,。
because God is holy.。
He's the definition of those things.。
God is infinite in every part of who he is.。
But we're not.。
He created us as finite creations.。
We're a part of the created order.。
Now we're a very special part of the created order.。
God created us as the crowning achievement of his creation.。
He gave us, again, his image。
and things that no other part of his creation has.。
We have a soul, we have the ability。
to make moral choices for right or wrong.。
We have the ability to have relationship with God。
and relationship with one another.。
Those are really unique things.。
But we are not God.。
We are not infinite.。
We are finite in our capacity.。
And even in the attributes of God's character。
that God calls us to reflect,。
we reflect those things in a finite way.。
God's love is perfect.。
We love imperfectly.。
And we should seek to love like God.。
God calls us to that throughout scripture,。
but still, our love is imperfect, it's incomplete.。
God is perfectly holy.。
Our holiness is always flawed.。
We are finite.。
And a part of our finitude, the finite part of us,。
is that we have limitations.。
In verse seven there that we just read,。
God formed humans from the dust of the ground.。
How did he form us?。
He formed us in the way that we。
see one another in this room, right?。
God gave us spiritual bodies, physical bodies.。
He gave us spiritual life as well,。
through the universe and do different things.。
He gave us this physical container for us to live in.。
And that physical container has some limitations, right?。
One of the biggest ones is we can only。
be in one place at one time.。
As much as we would love to be in multiple places at once。
and feel like we could get so much more done,。
God gave us that limitation.。
We can only be in one place at a time.。
But there's a lot of other limitations too, right?。
We get tired.。
All of us have to sleep.。
We can work hard, we can hustle, we can do a lot,。
but then we have to rest.。
That's just a reality of having a physical body.。
And what I want us to see is that our limitations。
are actually a part of God's good design.。
Sometimes we fight those limitations.。
We say there's something wrong with me。
because I can't do more and I can't do。
all the things I wanna do and what's wrong with me?。
But the reality is our limitations。
are a part of God's good design.。
God gave us those limitations on purpose。
because we need them.。
And one of the biggest reasons that we need them。
is to make us depend on him.。
We're limited creations that are dependent on God.。
And one of the marks of God's good design in our lives。
is the limitations that he gave us。
that force us to rely on him.。
I'm gonna let you in on a secret here.。
Most of you probably already know this,。
but some of you may not.。
But here's the secret.。
It took me a long time to learn in my life.。
But the secret is that you cannot have it all in life.。
All right?。
And our world, most people in the world。
don't seem to know that or maybe they know。
but they just don't believe it.。
And they think they can have it all.。
And so at every stage of life,。
we are trying to live into that,。
that we can have it all.。
So when we're young and we're a student,。
we're trying to get the best grades。
and also do all the extracurriculars。
and maybe some of the sports。
and also be the best rated gamer。
and be a great child to our parents.。
We're trying to do it all。
because apparently we think we can。
and apparently we think we have to, right?。
Then we get a little bit older and we're working。
and we're trying to have it all in our career。
but also live this really cool life。
where our social media reels are full of great pictures。
and vacations and restaurants and beaches。
and we're trying to do it all.。
And then if we have a family,。
we find ourselves trying to still have it all in career。
and everything else but also be a great parent。
and a great spouse and we're trying to do that.。
And the reality is we can't.。
God never intended it for us to have it all.。
We are limited creations.。
And if we're gonna live in a healthy way,。
then we have to embrace that and say,。
you know what, I'm dependent on God.。
Think about what we see in this passage.。
First, we're dependent on God for our physical life,。
for our very breath.。
God breathe the breath of life into humanity.。
And we could say, well, this is just talking。
about the first man, the first woman,。
it's not talking about us.。
But the Psalms speak very clearly to the fact。
that God forms each one of us before we are born.。
God, it says, God knits us together with his own fingers.。
God is in there in the mess of your DNA。
and not just in the DNA.。
The DNA is the physical part, right?。
God formed you how he wanted you to be,。
with your face and your height。
and your physical characteristics and all that.。
But not just in that, God forms you in your emotions,。
in your personality, in your gifts, in your talents,。
in all those ways.。
God forms you just like he formed the first humans.。
So we're dependent on God for our physical life.。
We're dependent on God for our emotional life.。
We're dependent on God for our spiritual life.。
All of those things, those dreams and desires。
and ambitions that we have,。
ultimately, we're dependent on God for those things.。
James chapter four talks about this.。
It says, come now you who say today or tomorrow。
we'll go into such and such a town。
and spend a year there and trade and make a profit.。
Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring.。
What is your life?。
For you are mist that appears for a little time。
and then vanishes.。
Instead, you ought to say if the Lord wills,。
we will live and do this or that.。
As it is, you boast in your arrogance.。
All such boasting is evil.。
What is that passage saying?。
It's saying, look, you don't know it,。
but you're dependent on God,。
even for your future plans and the things。
that you think you're gonna do next week or next year.。
If God doesn't sustain your life and your emotions。
and sustain you spiritually,。
you're not gonna do those things.。
That's what that verse is reminding us of.。
We, as human beings, we don't like dependency.。
We try to convince ourselves。
that we're not actually dependent.。
We love feeling like we're in control,。
even if it's just an illusion.。
We're very good in the modern world。
at building a lot of structures around us。
that insulate us from difficult events。
and maintain the illusion。
that we're in control of our lives.。
But we're really not.。
We're dependent on God。
to get us through the day physically.。
We're dependent on God emotionally.。
When we go through times, as Pastor Mark was mentioning,。
where we are grieving or we're experiencing loss。
or we're hurting or something unexpected happens。
or we have a disappointment, we lose a job,。
we have a relationship where someone is unkind to us,。
we go through those things,。
or at least when I go through those things,。
I'll speak for myself.。
Maybe it's not true for you, but it's true for me.。
Sometimes I go through those things。
and emotionally I just get really wrecked。
and I realize how close I am all the time。
from just really struggling emotionally。
and getting stuck。
and just being in a really unhealthy place.。
So if I think, oh, I'm doing great because I'm so strong,。
I'm lying to myself.。
I'm dependent on God all the time for his strength。
and for his comfort and for his peace。
and to sustain me emotionally and certainly spiritually。
for the relationship that I have with God.。
That's not gonna happen at all unless I'm depending on him.。
If I'm relying on myself saying, yeah, I'm a great person。
and I know what I'm doing。
and I'm out here doing all these things because of me,。
I'm gonna be very spiritually unhealthy.。
We have to get past our sinful desires。
and the lies of our culture that it's all about us。
and we need to rely on ourselves。
and we need to say, you know what?。
I am a limited creation and I need God in my life.。
I need him to keep me going.。
I pray this prayer pretty much every morning.。
I prayed it this morning 'cause I was tired.。
Just my wife and I, Jessamine is my wife's name.。
We have five kids.。
Our youngest is one。
and so he had trouble sleeping the last few nights.。
So I've missed some sleep.。
So I was tired when I woke up this morning。
and I prayed this prayer that I pray every morning。
before I even get out of bed.。
I just say, God, I need you today.。
I'm really dependent on you.。
I need you physically to get me through the day.。
Just give me the strength and the energy。
to get through this day.。
I need you emotionally and spiritually。
to give me the patience that I need。
to deal with situations that are gonna arise today。
or people that are gonna give me difficult interactions。
or whatever it is.。
I need you to get through this very day.。
That's a healthy place for me to be.。
It's a healthy way for me to start my day.。
Then we see in Genesis as well。
that we are limited creations。
that are interdependent on one another.。
Again, that's a part of God's good design.。
God gave us limitations。
that not only make us dependent on him。
but they make us need other people.。
And we're relational beings。
and God created us for community。
or another word that we could use is family。
with one another.。
Genesis 2, 18, just a few verses after this in chapter two.。
God looks at the man.。
This is before he makes the woman.。
God looks at the man and says this.。
The Lord God said, it is not good。
that the man should be alone.。
It's not good for us as humans。
to be isolated and on our own.。
As much as we think it's good,。
we think oh, but then I would never be disappointed。
if I didn't have anybody else that I had to trust。
or no one would ever hurt me。
if I could just isolate myself。
from these other people who are being mean.。
But God said, hey, it's not good for you to be alone.。
You are relational.。
You need other people.。
And in Genesis 2, 24,。
God institutes this covenant of marriage.。
He begins the first family between Adam and Eve.。
But he doesn't just begin the first family.。
He begins the first community.。
Before there was Adam, there was an individual.。
After that, there was community.。
There was a group.。
God made us to be in community, in family.。
And we need that.。
And we need to embrace that.。
And one of the ways we embrace that is right here.。
The church is a community that God gave to us。
for our own benefit.。
And it doesn't matter if you're married or single。
or young or old or even what your background is.。
God in the New Testament talks about that,。
how there's neither Greek or Jew,。
circumcised, uncircumcised,。
barbarian, Scythian, slave, free,。
but Christ is all and in all.。
That God brings us together in the church.。
It doesn't matter who we are or what our past was.。
And he says, you're in a family now.。
And so you can rely on each other and care for one another。
and depend on each other.。
And again, the human part, our sinful nature says,。
I don't want that, I don't wanna need other people.。
I don't wanna need people in my church.。
Sometimes we don't even wanna need our own family members.。
I don't wanna rely on my family.。
I'm not even sure I like them.。
But God says, you need those people.。
I made you that way on purpose because you need help.。
And if you didn't have the limitations,。
you wouldn't go to anyone else.。
You'd just try to do it all on your own.。
That limitation is a good thing for us that God gave us。
so that we would rely on others.。
And I just wanna say real quickly here。
that those limitations are not necessarily sin.。
Look at the order of Genesis, what's happening here.。
Genesis one, the creation.。
Genesis two, like I said, it zooms in。
and gives us this kind of zoomed in view of humans。
and the creation of humans.。
Then Genesis three, what happens?。
Genesis three is where sin enters the world.。
So think about that.。
Genesis two, we're created as limited beings。
and there's no sin in the world yet.。
It means our limitations are not sin.。
And a lot of times we feel like,。
oh, well, I just can't do enough and be enough。
because I'm broken, there's something wrong with me。
and I guess I just need to try harder.。
I need to figure out a way to be better.。
And we treat our limitations like there's some type of sin。
or brokenness.。
God never said that.。
Now, our limitations can lead us to sin。
if we don't respond to them correctly.。
If we hit the wall of our limitations and say,。
you know what, I need help。
and so I'm gonna turn to God for help,。
that's exactly what God wants us to do.。
But if we hit the wall of our limitations and say,。
no, I'm gonna push through and I'm gonna find a way。
and I'm gonna do this on my own,。
then yeah, our limitations can lead us to sin.。
But our limitations are not sin.。
And so when we look at our life and say,。
I just can't do it and I can't say yes to everything。
and I can't keep up with it all。
and I can't take it all on, that's okay.。
That's okay.。
God didn't make you to do all those things.。
God made you to be able to do a limited number of things。
each day in a limited amount of time。
before you have to sleep。
and you can only be in one place at a time,。
you can't meet every need,。
you can't be friends with everybody,。
you can't do everything that you want to do.。
And that's tough for us in the modern world, right?。
In the past, maybe it was easier。
because you didn't see pictures all the time。
of what everybody else was doing,。
so you just lived in your community。
and you felt like, hey, I'm doing okay,。
I'm here in my community with my family,。
with my people, with my church,。
we're doing what God has for us.。
It might have been a little bit easier。
to kind of keep your eyes。
on what God was doing in your life.。
But in the modern world, with the internet and social media,。
we're constantly seeing what everybody else is doing。
and so we have this desire。
to always feel like we should be doing more,。
like we're not doing enough,。
or that we're not enough.。
Like, you know, I'm not good enough。
because I see everybody else。
that seems to be better than me。
or more talented or their life is more exciting.。
Those are not the things that God has told us.。
God, it's clear here that God created you。
to be who he wanted you to be.。
He intentionally gave you the talents that you have,。
but he intentionally gave you the limitations you have.。
And he wants you to be dependent on him。
and dependent on others in a healthy way。
and to not try to do it all.。
Our limitations are not sin.。
And I want us to see here that dependence on God。
is cooperation, it's not resignation.。
Sometimes we might be mistaken。
and say, okay, if I'm just gonna depend on God,。
that means I'm just gonna kinda resign。
and be like, I can't do it.。
And so whatever happens in life is just gonna happen。
and I'm gonna give up because I'm overwhelmed, right?。
But that's not what the Bible teaches us.。
It's not a posture of resignation where we just kinda quit.。
The New Testament's clear that we are still。
supposed to be actively engaged in seeking to know God。
and seeking to draw near to him,。
seeking to surrender to his truth。
and seeking to obey the commands of scripture。
and glorify God in our lives.。
So we're not just quitting,。
but we are cooperating with what he is doing in our life。
and allowing him to lead and depending on him。
and being honest with ourselves and saying,。
God, I can't make myself.。
It's one of the interesting things about this passage,。
Genesis 2, seven, it gives us that origin story,。
that moment of formation,。
but the reality is God continues to form us。
throughout our lives, emotionally, spiritually.。
And if we're a follower of Jesus,。
if we're someone who by grace and through faith。
has put our trust in Christ,。
then God is going to form us as a new creation。
into the image of Jesus.。
He's gonna make us look more and more like Jesus。
and that's an ongoing process throughout our life.。
And so we're supposed to be engaged in that.。
We're supposed to be surrendered to that.。
We're not supposed to just give up.。
Dependence is a posture of cooperation。
where I admit my limitations and my need。
and I rely on God's work in my life。
and I cooperate with all of my mind and my soul。
and my strength with what God is doing.。
It's not giving up.。
Ephesians 2, 10 says,。
"For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus。
"for good works, which God prepared beforehand。
"that we should walk in them."。
It's a beautiful verse.。
And it tells us that God has some good stuff for us to do.。
But who is the focus in that entire verse?。
God.。
We're his workmanship created in Christ Jesus,。
which God prepared beforehand.。
It's all about what he's doing, not about what we're doing.。
There are good works that we're gonna do,。
but it's through relying on him.。
And that means we're actively involved, but we're dependent.。
One of the beautiful fruits of dependence。
is that it can give us peace.。
As I said earlier, having limitations is not sin.。
And understanding that we can't do it all。
is actually a very peaceful place to be.。
When we get to that point where we say, you know what?。
I'm not gonna be able to please everybody in my life.。
I'm not gonna be able to commit to everything.。
And instead, I'm gonna depend on God and say,。
God, what's really important for me here?。
What's important for me in this job?。
My boss keeps saying that I need to do this。
and meet these standards.。
What do you have for me here?。
What am I supposed to be doing?。
And I'm gonna live into that.。
That's a much more peaceful place。
than just trying to please all the people around you。
who are constantly saying, we wish you'd do this,。
we wish you'd do that, we want you to be more,。
we want you to give more.。
It's a peaceful place when we can say, you know what?。
I was involved in this at work,。
I was involved in this other thing,。
someone asked me to volunteer over here,。
but I can't do that all.。
I can't do all that stuff because I'm a limited human.。
I'm gonna seek God about what God wants me to do,。
and then I'm just gonna pick one thing,。
or I'm gonna pick two things,。
or I'm gonna pick three things.。
We have different capacities at different times in our life,。
but I'm gonna match what I'm doing to my capacity,。
and then I'm not gonna worry about the rest.。
I'm gonna admit that I'm limited.。
That's a place of peace.。
And those things change in time of life.。
I remember when Justin and I got married,。
before we had kids, I was serving as a youth pastor,。
and we did a lot of stuff in ministry,。
'cause we had more time than we had kids,。
and when our kids were little,。
they just got dragged along to everything,。
and did it all with us, and we still did quite a bit,。
but not as much as we had been doing,。
and as our kids have gotten older, that's changed.。
It's not that we're doing less,。
we're actually doing more than we ever did,。
but it's just in different ways.。
We invest more in our kids,。
and we still invest a lot in ministry,。
but not as much as we used to,。
'cause I can't have it all.。
I can't be the dad that God wants me to be,。
and also be the number one preacher guy。
who's putting out stuff all the time.。
I couldn't be that guy anyway.。
I'm not talented enough to be that guy in the first place,。
but even if I was trying to be that guy,。
I wouldn't have enough time to be the dad。
that God wants me to be, and so I have to choose.。
I have to say, God, what is important?。
What do you want me to do?。
You want me to be a husband and a dad first,。
and so I'm gonna put my time there,。
and I'm gonna give the time that I can give to ministry,。
but I'm okay with the fact that there's some things。
I'm gonna say no to, and there's some things。
that other people are gonna say,。
you know, if you would do this,。
it would really work out great for you,。
and I'm gonna have to say, that's probably true,。
but I can't, I don't have enough time,。
because God's given me other things to do,。
and that's a part of our life.。
Our capacity changes.。
I'm older now than I used to be.。
I used to run a lot faster than I do, jump higher.。
I played sports, all that stuff.。
A few weeks ago, Zara, she's seven, she's sitting there.。
We were at the park about two weeks ago。
playing a little family baseball game on the Diamond,。
just kind of hitting the softball and running the bases,。
and I was playing with him and running,。
and she goes, "Dad, I've never seen you run that fast."。
(laughing)。
But it's true, I don't run nearly as fast as I used to,。
but I also don't run that much anymore,。
'cause it's a different time of life,。
and that's okay, that's a part of our limitations.。
Aging is a part of our limitations.。
And just like I said earlier,。
our limitations are not sin, but they can lead us to sin.。
Some people in midlife, they hit that wall of aging,。
and they say, "No, I'm gonna fight against it,。
"and I'm gonna go out and blow all my family's money。
"on a new car, and I'm gonna leave my marriage。
"and do all this."。
It can lead us to sin, right?。
But if we're honest with our limitations, we say,。
"Hey, I'm not as fast as I used to be."。
Things are different now, that's okay,。
I'm gonna rely on God, and let him equip me。
to love the people in my life in different ways.。
Maybe I can't do all the things I used to do,。
but God can make different ways for me to minister。
and love and care for people.。
Then we can maintain health,。
and that's what's really important.。
Embracing our dependence gives us a lot of peace,。
when we're able to say, "You know what, I can't,。
"and that's okay."。
That's where God wants me to be.。
Embracing our dependence gives us freedom,。
when we're able to say,。
"You know, that gap between the desire to have it all。
"that we feel and that the world tells us,。
"and then what we can actually achieve,。
"that gap can give us a lot of stress,。
"and a lot of anxiety and a lot of worry."。
When we realize, "Here's what I wanna do,。
"and here's what I expected that I was gonna be able to do,。
"and here's what I thought I was gonna be able to do,。
"and here's the reality of what I can achieve."。
As a limited person, with a certain number of hours a day。
that can be in one place at a time,。
this is really as far as I can get.。
And there's always a gap there.。
We always want more than we can get to.。
Every day is like that for me.。
I'm a very optimistic person,。
so I start every day thinking I'm gonna get。
like 20 things done, and usually I get three to five.。
And sometimes, if I'm not relying on the Lord,。
I'll get really stressed, 'cause I'm like,。
"I didn't get 20 things done, and now what am I gonna do,。
"and now I've got so much to do tomorrow,"。
and I get full of stress and worry and anxiety.。
Embracing our dependence gives us freedom。
when we say, "You know what?。
"I can do what God enables me to do.。
"I'm gonna depend on Him to make sure。
"that I'm doing the right things,。
"and the rest of it, I'm gonna let go of."。
There's a lot of freedom in that.。
Even our mission in the church,。
to make disciples of all nations,。
way bigger than anything we could ever achieve。
on our own, right?。
That is such a huge mission.。
We need to embrace our dependence on God and say,。
"God, yes, we want this.。
"We wanna serve you.。
"We love you.。
"We wanna be your people.。
"We wanna make disciples.。
"We wanna reach our community."。
But we can't.。
These obstacles are way bigger than we are.。
We need you to show up.。
We need you to be at work.。
And when we embrace our dependence on God,。
we're able to be free from the pressure。
of filling roles that were never ours to fill,。
trying to do things that we were never supposed to do。
in the first place.。
We can be free from the stress and worry of anxiety,。
of carrying burdens that we were never supposed to carry.。
Think about that in your life, in my life.。
Again, I'll speak about myself.。
A lot of the times when I get stressed。
and anxious and worried,。
it's because I'm trying to, in some way, know the future.。
Was I ever supposed to know the future?。
No.。
That's a human limitation.。
We do not have the ability to know the future.。
God does, but we don't.。
So when I try to take that on,。
I'm definitely gonna get stressed out.。
There's no way I can know the future.。
Or I try to control other people.。
Or I wanna have control over something like my health。
or someone else's health.。
God never intended for me to have that ability.。
And so if I'm taking that on,。
I'm just gonna stress myself out and frustrate myself.。
There is freedom in just saying,。
God, this is a you thing.。
This is not a me thing.。
I can't.。
You know, Matthew 11, 29 to 30 says this.。
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me,。
for I am gentle and lowly in heart,。
and you will find rest for your souls,。
for my yoke is easy and my burden is light.。
Jesus said that.。
Now how could Jesus say that?。
How could he say his yoke is easy and his burden is light?。
'Cause this is the same Jesus that also said,。
if you wanna be my disciple,。
you have to take up a cross and follow me.。
This is the same Jesus that also said,。
in this world, you will have troubles.。
So when Jesus said his yoke was easy and his burden was light。
he wasn't saying there's not gonna be any problems,。
there's no adversity if you follow me,。
it's smooth sailing for the rest of your days.。
That's not what he's saying.。
What he's saying is if you follow me and you do it right,。
the yoke is easy and the burden is light。
because you're not carrying it, he's gonna carry it.。
But for that to happen in our lives,。
we have to embrace our dependence on him.。
And the last thing I wanna point us to。
is that embracing our witness is a dependence to others.。
In a world that so values individualism。
and hustle and self-reliance,。
being someone who says, you know, I can't do it all,。
I need help of other people, I have to rely on God,。
that in and of itself is a witness,。
that in and of itself is counter-cultural,。
that in and of itself is something。
that people take notice of.。
And they say, this person's different。
'cause everybody else is trying to do it all on their own。
and trying to project an image。
that they've got it all together.。
And so if we are willing to say, you know what,。
I don't have it all together,。
I actually need things in my life,。
I'm a dependent person, I'm a limited person,。
that's a witness to what God is doing.。
Now earlier I said that God continues to form us。
throughout our lives.。
In Jeremiah chapter 18, in the first four verses,。
there's this beautiful illustration of the potter。
that's forming the clay, right?。
And it talks about how the clay。
has to surrender to that process,。
embrace being formed by the potter.。
The clay doesn't get to say to the potter,。
I think this is how you should mold me.。
The potter is the one who is in control of that process.。
And that process of forming and shaping and removing,。
that's a painful process, right?。
Think about what happens.。
The clay gets formed, it gets shaped,。
parts of it are chopped off, removed,。
and then what happens, if you know anything about pottery,。
what happens next is it goes in the fire.。
And it gets heated really hot.。
And a lot of times it goes in the fire multiple times.。
But then what comes out on the other side。
is something that's beautiful,。
something that's valuable, something that's useful,。
and something that if it's really well made,。
it reflects the craftsmanship of the maker.。
In our house we have some really nice, fine dinnerware。
that my wife's grandmother got us when we got married.。
We never use it, but it's really pretty.。
It sits in this hutch next to our dining room table.。
And every time I look at it, I'm always amazed。
because it's so beautiful.。
The craftsmanship in it is really intricate and amazing.。
And I'm always kind of in awe of whoever made it。
because that's, I know I could not do that.。
And that's what can happen in our lives.。
If we're willing to surrender to being dependent on God。
and our need for him and allowing him to form us。
and shape us and mold us,。
and even through taking us through difficult things。
like going in the fire, maybe even more than once,。
when we come out on the other side,。
there's something in us, in our life,。
that's valuable and useful and beautiful,。
and it's glorifying to God.。
And the people around us who observe it,。
they say, "Wow, that person is really different.。
"There's something really beautiful in their life。
"and something that testifies to someone else."。
That's another beautiful thing about dependence。
is when other people see it, they know it's not us.。
They don't look at us and say,。
"All this stuff going on in your life。
"is because you're so great and you're so smart。
"and you're so tough and you hustle so hard."。
They have to look at our life and say,。
"There's something else going on here。
"'cause it's not you," right?。
And that's what we want.。
We want to be in that place where we are reflecting。
God's work in our life, where we're dependent on him,。
where we're experiencing the peace and freedom。
that comes from that,。
and that's a witness to the people around us.。
And that only happens as we learn to embrace。
our need for God and the need for the people around us,。
that God created us with.。
We are limited creations.。
That's okay, God made us that way on purpose,。
and we need him, and he wants us to turn to him。
in our lives and to rely on him.。
Let's pray.。
God, thank you so much for your truth。
and the way it speaks to us.。
There are times when it's tough to hear.。
We don't always want to hear that we are dependent。
or that we have need.。
We'd rather just hear that we're great。
and that we have it all together.。
But the reality is we do need you.。
You formed us from dust, from nothing,。
and you breathed life and vitality and a soul into us.。
But we did not make ourselves.。
You formed us, and you are still making us.。
And so God, please help us to embrace our need for you,。
to be honest with ourselves about our limitations。
and the fact that we can't do it all,。
to embrace the interdependence that you gave us。
in the church, the people around us that we need,。
to rely on you and others,。
to help us live into who you want us to be。
and who you've called us to be.。
God, thank you that you are loving us。
and you are at work in our lives to form us and shape us。
into something that's way more beautiful。
than we could imagine or we ever would have planned for.。
And I pray that you would continue that。
even this week in our lives.。
Give us comfort, give us peace, give us hope.。
Help us to rely on you.。
