Wave hands to your friends, yeah.。
(laughs)。
Alright.。
Well, one last announcement is the registration, I think.。
Oh, okay, alright, we have our continuous daily devotion.。
Make sure you subscribe to it,。
join our social media group,。
and read a small portion of the devotional material。
to help you walk in the way of God, okay?。
So the theme is very interesting.。
It give us today our daily bread, okay?。
Eating is so important for many of us, right?。
Especially Asian and Chinese, right?。
We greet each other, "Have you eaten yet?"。
(laughs)。
"Have you eaten your lunch or your dinner?"。
We're so concerned about our own feast, right?。
Our own eating, our own stomach.。
But the Bible has a lot to say about eating, right?。
The Bible has a lot to say about our food.。
And in fact, the food, the meals that we have,。
are often tests and temptations to all of us.。
So I hope this daily devotional。
will help you and challenge you.。
Today is the last day for registration。
to be the voting member.。
I have explained to all of you,。
the system at UV is kind of a system of democracy.。
Alright, so all the voting members registered to be active,。
and you can nominate each other,。
and then elect each other to be the new,。
to become the core team of the new term.。
Our Angus congregation, although it's smaller,。
we are not small, right?。
We are not small, as I can see.。
There are, I think five, right?。
Five nominees coming out of you guys, alright?。
Maybe 10 out of the 10 o'clock service,。
but five out of you guys.。
This is so important because our pastoral staff。
are working alongside with our elected。
core team members to lead the church.。
So for the next three years,。
we're gonna generate a new leadership team,。
and we're gonna meet on a monthly basis。
for one hour or so to discuss church business。
and church direction and a lot of things.。
We come to the church meetings,。
whether it's worship service or fellowship,。
or later you go to have your feast tonight at Mears.。
You know, you need to understand,。
sometimes we show up to eat, and then we'll be gone, right?。
But there are tons of things behind the scene.。
People are working so hard to make sure。
the schedule is right, and make sure all the tools,。
all the elements are there in order for us to enjoy.。
So you need to understand, church is not just。
what you can see, it's not just one hour。
or two hours a week.。
There are 24/7 behind the scene,。
people are doing things to prepare stuff for us.。
So the core team leadership is actually in charge。
of all, many of the ministry。
and all the works behind the scene.。
So this is so important.。
So register if you have not.。
If you have registered, praise God, okay?。
If you have registered, after today,。
we will enter into the second phase of our election,。
is the phase of nomination.。
So there will be three Sundays,。
October 9, 16, and 23.。
We're going to generate a list of nomination.。
So once you register, you will be able to nominate people。
from the list of qualified nominees, or potential nominees.。
You're gonna nominate among each one of us.。
Whoever got the highest number of nominations,。
will go into the third phase, which is election.。
All right, election is on the Sundays。
of November 6, 13, and 20.。
So for three Sundays, we're gonna cast our vote, all right,。
to the list of nominees.。
And then after the three Sundays of election,。
November 6, 13, and 20, we're gonna generate。
a new group of qualified members,。
and the results will be out on 20th of November.。
All right, got it?。
I like this system.。
I like this system, because we always have room。
for new members, for new leaders, for new ideas.。
We need all of you to serve together.。
In fact, the Bible tells us we need to do。
our best to serve God, to use our time,。
to use our talent, and to use our treasure。
to serve God's kingdom, all right?。
So three Ts, your time, your talent, and your treasure.。
In my years in the past few churches, including this one,。
I'm so amazed by how God has raised up so many people,。
brothers and sisters, to do the little work behind the scene。
and to make the gospel possible, make the church possible.。
Each one of us is gifted in many different ways, all right?。
I want to remind you, the church is composed。
of different members.。
All of us are different, totally different, right?。
You don't want a church that, you don't want a church,。
the church body that has only one guy,。
like everyone looks like Mark Chan.。
That would be the worst church in the world.。
Everyone is unique, everyone is different, right?。
So use our talents and discover our talents.。
We started our worship service 1130 until now.。
There were many people working behind the scenes.。
Some were doing the PowerPoint,。
some were doing the OBS,。
some were doing preparation and the worship team,。
they practice beforehand and come and set up。
and lead us into the presence of God.。
So there were a lot of things.。
We can use our gifts and use our talents, all right?。
So these three phrases, please remember today, September 11,。
you're going to register,。
this is the last Sunday to register, all right?。
All right?。
All right, so next one.。
Oh, courting position, yes, there you go.。
All right, so there will be a fellowship dinner today, right?。
Praise God, praise God, praise God for good food, okay?。
But I hope we have good time of fellowship as well, all right?。
It's not just about eating, it's about being together, right?。
And then what you do as giving, remember my three Ts?。
The third T is treasure.。
You are not just giving for something unknown,。
you're giving to the ministry.。
We are trying to build up our ministry,。
that our ministry is not just here and in the neighborhood,。
it's not just that.。
Of course, this is our first priority.。
As a community church,。
we wanna serve the people in our neighborhood,。
but our ministry goes to, I don't know, globally, right?。
Some of our YouTube videos, some of our teaching。
will go to somewhere else in the world。
and bless other people.。
So as you give, remember this,。
you are participating in the global work of Jesus Christ.。
All right?。
There was something I remember, I wanna remind you.。
I forgot, yeah.。
Shouldn't be important, but anyways, yeah.。
So continue to give and give faithfully, all right?。
So today is my substitute preaching。
and let me give you a five minute recap。
of what I did in the past two weeks.。
And then I give you the highlight。
or my highlight of the whole trip.。
We went to different sites and different places in Israel.。
If you have seen some of the videos,。
you should, first of all, you should remember,。
we often have some sort of preconception。
of what the land of the Bible, Israel, is, right?。
Now, if you ask your neighbors,。
if you ask your neighbors,。
what do you think of the land of Israel, right?。
What kind of image, what kind of impression。
come into your mind when people mention Israel, Palestine?。
Okay, talk to your neighbor, go to your neighbor.。
What are some of the first impressions that you had。
with the land of Israel?。
What are some of those?。
Yeah, what were some of those that came to your mind?。
What was that?。
Here, here, this corner.。
What you guys talk about?。
(laughs)。
Dusty, dusty and sandy, right?。
Yeah, right, right, right.。
What else?。
How about that?。
Huh?。
War, yes, war, right?。
Yeah, it's always a missile and bombs and all that, right?。
That's all you got, right?。
That's all you got.。
What else?。
I'm sorry?。
Promised, promised land.。
Promised land, did I get it right?。
Okay, it's good, good.。
That is correct.。
(laughs)。
Well, is it sandy, is it dusty?。
Some areas are dusty, right?。
Just like Chicago.。
Some areas are really dusty.。
It was very interesting, I meet some friends。
or people, strangers on the street,。
and sometimes we exchange conversation, right?。
And then they ask, "Where you from?"。
And I ask, "Where you from?"。
"Oh, you from Sweden or from Germany."。
And then I say, "I'm from Chicago."。
And their impression of Chicago,。
it's very dangerous place.。
It's probably the most dangerous place in the world.。
(laughs)。
That's true, right?。
In fact, yesterday, if you heard about the neighborhood news,。
I got, I think it happened yesterday or Friday.。
Yeah, it happened Friday.。
There was shooting in the Kenwood High School neighborhood。
in Hyde Park.。
You heard about it?。
Because you are numb.。
Because you are numb,。
because there's so many different shootings, right?。
You just don't care.。
I don't care.。
It's not special anymore.。
And in fact, Friday, there was a shooting。
near Hyde Park, Kenwood Academy in Hyde Park.。
And I talked to some of the parents,。
who's children are students of Kenwood.。
And they told me there was a soft lockdown in Kenwood.。
Kind of scary, right?。
It's the beginning weeks of the school year.。
And already it's happening, right?。
But you talk to some of the foreigners,。
some of the people who've never been to Chicago,。
and then you try to correct their preconception, right?。
You try to correct them.。
And I don't come from,。
there were not bullets flying 24/7 here, right?。
You try to tell them, you know,。
I'm from Chicago, I'm normal.。
My street, my neighborhood is actually pretty safe, right?。
I live in McKinney Park,。
which is right next to Bridgeport, where we're at now.。
I try to correct them, you know, it's not what you think.。
Now, why did they think the way they do?。
Because of the media, right?。
Because of the media.。
Now, you turn on your TV news,。
you turn on any news channel,。
you always get the sensational stories, right?。
Because what is newsworthy。
is always the dangerous stuff, right?。
The exciting stuff, the sensational stuff.。
You don't get any news from me, right?。
Am I newsworthy?。
No, I'm not, right?。
I'm just a normal guy, ordinary, just like you, right?。
I don't read your story on, you know, CNN。
and all the major news channels.。
All we got from the news channel is always a,。
well, one of the perspectives, right?。
One of the blind spots.。
What is newsworthy is often sensational.。
That's why when they hear about Chicago,。
they always think of the gangsters,。
the shootings, right, the killing,。
and all that stuff.。
So I try to correct that.。
And I go to the land of Israel for the past two weeks,。
and we had that kind of reorientation too.。
Now, of course, I've been there for many, many times,。
and I don't need that.。
But once we arrive, once we arrive,。
all of the Team Israel people,。
they tell me, "Wow, this is Israel?。
"Is that right?"。
I said, "Yeah, you are in Israel.。
"Check your GPS.。
"You are in Israel."。
(audience laughing)。
"You are not in Sahara Desert.。
"You are not in some, you know, no man's land.。
"It's actually pretty urbanized, right?"。
I keep telling them, actually,。
Israel is a mini United States, right?。
So we land Israel on Monday, two Mondays ago,。
after 13 hours of flight.。
So we land in the Ben Gurion Airport in Tel Aviv,。
or near Tel Aviv, and then we check out our rental cars.。
So I drive one car and the other guy, Ronald,。
drive another car.。
So we head out to the north side of Israel, to Galilee,。
right?。
It's a beautiful place.。
It's a beautiful place.。
It's the freshwater lake,。
the Sea of Galilee, Lake of Galilee,。
is a freshwater lake at the lowest point on planet Earth.。
It's a beautiful place, right?。
Besides the heat wave, right?。
It's a beautiful place.。
And they took a lot of pictures.。
They have fun.。
And then we check into our Airbnb.。
We stayed there for less than a week, four to five days.。
And then we drove all the way down to the middle。
of the country, which is Jerusalem.。
Now, once we arrived in Jerusalem, it was a Thursday.。
It was a Thursday.。
Thursday night, we arrived and checked into our second Airbnb。
and then we settled in.。
And then after an hour, I told the team,。
"Hey, let's meet on ground floor.。
Because we have two different Airbnbs."。
I said, "After an hour or so, you settle down。
and we're gonna meet on the ground level。
and then we're gonna walk the street, okay?"。
'Cause we checked in the Airbnb,。
and which is located right at the heart of the city,。
which is Ben Yehuda Street.。
Ben Yehuda Street.。
If you Google that, you'll find out Ben Yehuda Street。
is one of the busiest streets in the city of Jerusalem,。
in the new part of the city of Jerusalem, not the old city.。
Anyways, it's very close to the old city.。
So we went to the ground level and I said,。
"Hey, it's about time to go for dinner."。
Right?。
So they walked the street。
and there's light rail and all that.。
And then shops and restaurants are all open.。
And Thursday, I mentioned Thursday, we arrived。
because Thursday, Thursday evening,。
is the busiest day of the week.。
Busiest day of the week.。
Why?。
Because Friday is the Shabbat.。
So it's the day before Shabbat, right?。
It's like our Friday night.。
It's like our Friday night.。
So their Thursday night is a very busy night.。
And everyone is, you know,。
all the restaurants have tables and chairs out there。
on the sidewalk.。
Good food, you know, good drinks,。
and people are chatting and having a good time.。
And one of the team member told me,。
"This feels like Europe."。
"This feels like..."。
Is that right?。
Europe is like that, right?。
You just chill out in the evening, nice and cool.。
I said, "Yeah, exactly."。
Right?。
And then we went to the Western Wall, the Wailing Wall,。
and to check out, you know, all the activities there.。
And it was crazy, so busy.。
Because some of the Jews,。
especially the religious observant Jews,。
they would go to the Western Wall almost every day。
to pray and to read scripture.。
So we had a good time.。
We went to different site,。
and to so-called retrace the steps of Jesus,。
the steps of the Old Testament stories。
or New Testament stories.。
Every place that we go is a storied place,。
storied place.。
It means place full of stories,。
place full of traditions, histories, and legends.。
Almost every site.。
You know, I used to study in Israel for quite a bit,。
and I stay in the Old City.。
So I go out to the Old City almost every day,。
just to walk and to get grocery or stuff like that.。
Every stone has a story.。
Every corner of the street has a story.。
Has a story that goes back to thousands of years ago,。
go back to the Old Testament time.。
And you can relate to what has happened in the past。
to what is relevant to all of us today.。
And today, I would like to share one of the stories。
or one of the sites that I went to,。
which is one of the highlights, all right?。
Now let me read the scripture first.。
2 Kings 20, 20.。
20, 20, 2 Kings.。
Now, this is the conclusion of the reign of King Hezekiah,。
one of the Old Testament kings,。
one of the kings reigning in the southern country of Judah,。
right around Jerusalem.。
So this is the conclusion, the concluding note.。
So after chapters of information,。
history about the reign of Hezekiah,。
the writer of the Bible says,。
as for other events of Hezekiah's reign,。
all his achievements and how he made the pool,。
the water, the water pool,。
and the tunnel, the water tunnel,。
by which he brought water into the city,。
are they not written in the book of Kings of Judah?。
Now, the last question that he asked。
was a rhetorical question.。
But what I mean by rhetorical question。
is that the answer is expected, of course, right?。
There were other events,。
many other events and achievements of King Hezekiah.。
Are they not written in the book of Kings of Judah?。
The archive, the government files,。
you know, the, you know, how many gigabytes,。
you know, in today's term, are all stored。
in the government archive of the day.。
And that archive is called the archive of Kings of Judah.。
Right?。
So there are many other things。
that the biblical author can talk about,。
about King of, about King Hezekiah.。
And he said, I can talk so much,。
but they are all written in the government archive.。
And I didn't talk about it, right?。
So in the previous chapters,。
he talked about what King Hezekiah has done in his reign.。
Some of the highlights in the history。
of the reign of Hezekiah.。
Now, Hezekiah is a good king.。
He's a good king.。
Now, why do I have to mention the good king?。
Because in the book of Kings, as you can remember,。
there were many, many kings that we quoted.。
Northern country, Israel, the southern country, Judah.。
The book of Kings is all about the history。
of the royal people, the kings and the queens。
and the elites of the country.。
Most of the kings are bad kings.。
If you talk about the northern king,。
the kings of Israel, the northern country,。
none of them is good.。
None of them is good.。
Everyone has gone astray from the faith。
and let the whole nation to worship the false god, Baal,。
worship the false gods.。
None of them is good in the northern country.。
That's why they went into exile.。
And then he continued to talk about the southern kings,。
the kings of Judah.。
There are many of them because the history is,。
of course, is longer than the northern country.。
The southern country, Judah, also has many kings,。
but many of them are bad kings, all right?。
And here and there, there are some good kings.。
Hezekiah is one of them.。
Hezekiah is one of them.。
Now, how do you define a good king, right?。
Now, I told you the bad kings,。
all they did was to worship the false god。
and lead the people to worship the false god,。
to leave the faith, the true faith of Yahweh.。
The good kings will turn around,。
turn around the whole nation。
and have the whole nation worship Yahweh, the true God,。
the one and only God, the creator God, the covenant God.。
So Hezekiah is one of them.。
And in fact, in the early reign of King Hezekiah,。
he exercised and implement。
some of the all nationwide religious reform.。
So he broke down all the false god shrines。
and false gods temples,。
some of the orders, rightful orders,。
he broke them all down.。
So he got all, you know,。
all encompassing policy implement in his reign.。
In the early time of his reign.。
So that was King Hezekiah.。
So there are many things the biblical author。
talks about this good king.。
But one of the biggest crisis。
that Hezekiah faced when he became king。
was the incoming invasion of Assyrian empire.。
Now, back then, one of the superpowers in the whole earth。
is the Assyrian empire.。
Now, if you learn a little bit about Assyrian empire,。
you have never heard of, you know,。
some of the cruelest or the most militarized nation。
on earth, Assyrian empire.。
They go to different places to conquer different people。
and to do some of the most evil things,。
you know, to oppress the conquered people。
and to destroy the cities and all the towns.。
And the Assyrian empire was growing。
in the time of Hezekiah.。
So one of the major crisis Hezekiah had。
was the growing Assyrian empire。
that would threaten the security。
of his small nation Judah.。
So he did many things, Hezekiah,。
in order to defend his country, all right?。
Now, facing, you know, a Goliath, right,。
Assyrian empire coming at your footstep,。
you know, you gotta do a lot。
because you're a small nation, right?。
You got to spend a lot of time and a lot of effort。
in your military defense, right?。
Jerusalem is a very small place.。
Jerusalem is also not a land of,。
that has a lot of resources.。
So he did a lot of things, Hezekiah,。
in order to defend his country.。
And one of the things that we can retrace his steps。
is the Hezekiah tunnels.。
It is a almost 2000 feet long tunnel。
that brings water from the water source,。
the only water source in the city of Jerusalem,。
Gihon Spring, all the way,。
dug this tunnel 2000 feet underground。
into the mountain,。
all the way, bringing water from the Gihon Spring。
to the heart of the city, inside the city.。
You know, in the old days,。
usually the water source or the spring of the city。
is located outside or at the foothill of the town, right?。
The town, when we build a town in the ancient time,。
we want to build a town on top of the mountain。
for defense, right?。
But you know, there's always pros and cons.。
You build high, you don't get water, right?。
Where's the water?。
The water's coming from the underground water table, right?。
Have you ever dug well?。
Have you ever dug well?。
You dug deep, right?。
You dug deep into the ground.。
Why?。
Because the water table is underground, right?。
So you have to dug like 50 feet down, 20 feet down,。
in order to reach the water table in the limestone.。
Same case in Jerusalem.。
The water table is down there.。
So imagine, you know, you got a hill, right, or a ridge.。
City of Jerusalem, the city of David,。
is on top of the hill,。
and the water source is the Gihon Spring.。
It's right at the foothill.。
Now, how do you solve the problem of military defense, right?。
When the Assyrian Empire,。
when the Assyrian soldiers come to attack the city,。
they will surround the city, right?。
And they will tap into your water resource。
and won't let you use the water, right?。
So in the normal day, when there is no military attack,。
you can go out of the city wall, out of the city gate,。
and you go all the way down to the foothill,。
and then you have a bucket,。
and then you fetch water from the well, or from the spring,。
and then you go back uphill, right?。
Now imagine, day by day, you have to do that, right?。
In the morning, because you gotta make coffee,。
so you gotta have some water, right?。
So early in the morning, usually the women do the job,。
all right, the men stay back on the lazy boy,。
and wait for the women to bring water to home.。
So in the morning, and probably in the evening,。
you know, the women are very busy going out of the city gate,。
out, you know, from the mountain top,。
go to the foothill to fetch water back home.。
In the normal day, you can do that, that's fine.。
But in order to prepare for the ongoing,。
or the upcoming Syrian attack,。
Hezekiah dug this tunnel, 2,000 feet long, is that long?。
Pretty long, right?。
All by human hands, can you imagine?。
All by human hands.。
And today, we can go to the Hezekiah tunnel,。
and I tell you, this is the highlight of the whole trip.。
Everyone thinks so, everyone thinks so.。
Unless you are claustrophobic, kind of,。
you know, you can't go in.。
We have a couple of members who cannot go in,。
so they decide not to go, which is good, which is good.。
If you get panicked in the tunnel,。
there's no way I can rescue you, right?。
There's no phone signal, there's no Wi-Fi in the tunnel,。
so you have to walk through the tunnel one way,。
you know, from the Gihon Spring.。
You walk in with your flashlight, right?。
You gotta bring your flashlight,。
and then the size of the tunnel,。
remember, I'm five nine, I have to duck most of the time.。
I have to duck.。
If you're really short, that's fine.。
I have to duck most of the time.。
And you have to walk through the tunnel。
from the starting point to the end point, 2,000 feet.。
How long does it take?。
In the water, you wait in the water.。
There's fresh water coming out of the Gihon Spring.。
It still works, the spring is still working today.。
You know, it's just amazing.。
For 3,000 years, it's fresh water。
coming out of the Gihon Spring.。
So we walk in the dark with a flashlight。
for almost 45 minutes, sometimes an hour,。
and sometimes longer because I stop,。
and I explain to the team right inside the tunnel.。
And think about it.。
You know, this Heisekai Tunnel was the greatest。
water engineering project in his day, in the entire world.。
You don't find anything like this。
in other parts of the country,。
or in other parts of the planet Earth.。
It's the greatest, smart, and genius idea.。
They have two teams dugging together,。
you know, trying to join each other inside the mountain.。
2,700 years ago.。
By what?。
By sound.。
When they dug in the limestone,。
that you can hear the other team, what they're doing,。
and are we coming closer?。
That's why the tunnel is not straight.。
It's going like S-shaped, you know,。
zigzag into the mountain.。
It's one of the greatest water projects。
in the world at Heisekai's time.。
So Heisekai did that in order to defend the city.。
Now back to the scripture.。
Did the scripture talk about it?。
Yes, it does.。
But right at the end, it's only one phrase.。
All the other events of Heisekai's reign,。
all his achievements, and he mentioned this.。
He made a water pool, and a water tunnel,。
and he brought water into the city from the Gihon Spring.。
Outside of the city, into the city,。
in order to prepare for the Assyrian siege.。
Now, for such a great water engineering project,。
it's very interesting, the Bible only has one statement.。
All the stories of Heisekai, recorded in the Bible,。
are not about his human effort.。
Because if you read the story,。
you understand eventually the Assyrians came。
and besieged the city.。
And almost Jerusalem fell because of the Assyrians.。
But you read the record of King Heisekai,。
at the day of distress, he went to the temple.。
He went to the temple of Jerusalem to pray.。
To pray for deliverance.。
To pray that God would help him and to deliver him.。
Now what a contrast.。
Because tons of money and tons of effort。
go into ducking the water tunnel.。
Right, the greatest water project ever in his day.。
But even that system, even that water project。
did not save him, did not save his nation.。
And Heisekai's story is all about the salvation of God.。
Only God can save.。
Humans cannot save.。
Have you ever thought about it?。
Like the days of Heisekai, he spent tons of effort。
in order to defend himself, to prepare for coming crisis.。
We do that too, right?。
How much time have we invest, think about it.。
How much time have we invest into our 401k,。
into our pension, in thinking about our future?。
Thinking about how we prepare for, I don't know,。
retirement or days of distress, right?。
How to prepare for any crisis that we can think of.。
The medical insurance in the United States,。
it's such a mess, right?。
But we have to spend so much energy, so much worries。
in order to prepare for that, right?。
Human efforts.。
The story of Heisekai, the biblical record,。
give us another perspective.。
Yes, you should prepare.。
Yes, you should do all that you can。
in order to defend yourself.。
But ultimately, you should not forget,。
it is Yahweh who saves, it is Jesus who saves.。
I'll tell you the story and then I'm gonna end.。
Years ago, I was in Vancouver.。
I was a young pastor.。
And you know, sometimes we do a pastoral visit。
to different families and different people.。
I remember it was in the late '90s.。
And I was in Vancouver, and there were many rich people。
in Vancouver.。
Oh, they're so rich.。
You know, in fact, I was a young pastor。
and I was taking care of a youth group.。
And one of my students, he lives alone in a big mansion.。
It's bought by parents from Hong Kong,。
but they don't stay there.。
Only the kids stay there, right?。
17-year-old, 18-year-old, crazy.。
I went to his house.。
I really like to go to his house。
because you walk into his mansion,。
the huge living space is occupied by a snooker table.。
You know the billiard?。
The snooker table?。
You know the pool table?。
Pool that you have a stick and then you poke the ball.。
You know that table?。
But the huge size ones, right?。
The huge size.。
So we go to his house and we play snooker, right?。
We play billiard.。
It's just that rich, right?。
I remember one time I was arranged to go。
to one of the other businessmen.。
Went to visit him.。
And we went to his house and talked to him about gospel。
to share with him what Jesus has done for us.。
You know how he look at me?。
I still remember how he respond to me。
because he's richer than me.。
He's probably, I guess he's more good looking than I am.。
He's successful.。
He got the family.。
He got all, everything intact, right?。
I mean, he said, "I have nothing to worry about.。
"Don't talk to me about death and stuff."。
Right?。
What Jesus has done for, to him, Jesus is a poor man.。
Right?。
To him, the gospel is, what, it sucks, right?。
It sucks.。
Because compared to him, he has the best of the world.。
Right?。
So I talked to him and kind of being looked down。
and kind of being, you know, he didn't yell at me。
but I can tell he's pretty, the despising tone and look.。
And I left, right?。
I left.。
And that was one of the worst moment in my ministry.。
You know, I have doubt, what am I doing here?。
(laughing)。
Some years later, some years later,。
you know, one of his family members called us and said,。
"Hey, can you visit my dad?"。
Which is that guy, the businessman.。
About three or four years later, I visited him again.。
He had cancer, last stage.。
We remembered the contrast.。
We remember the contrast, his tone and his look.。
Before, he was successful and despising.。
Two or three years later, because he had been diagnosed。
with last stage of cancer, liver cancer,。
his tone totally changed.。
His perspective totally changed.。
At that point, we explained to him the gospel.。
We explained to him what Jesus has done for us.。
We explained to him the hope that we have,。
beyond death, right?。
As you can tell, when crisis hit,。
you cannot be proud anymore, right?。
You cannot be prideful of your achievement,。
of your human effort, because someday we're gonna fade away.。
All we can do, the best we can do right now,。
is to delay our response.。
Don't think about it, right?。
Well, we don't have to think about it.。
Have you ever thought about tomorrow。
you're gonna be diagnosed with cancer?。
You won't, right?。
All you care about is, okay, today, tonight,。
we're gonna have a big feast, right?。
Yeah, we're gonna eat, and then we're gonna sleep well,。
and tomorrow we go to work, right?。
All we need to think about is this, right?。
To delay our response to the most important things。
in our lives.。
Do we have hope beyond death?。
Jesus saves, and only Jesus saves.。
That is what the story of Hezekiah is all about.。
You can spend all your budget in your military defense,。
in your health insurance, in your achievement.。
You can plan your education, you can plan everything, right?。
But only Yahweh saves.。
Don't forget about that.。
The salvation of Jesus Christ is so great of a salvation。
that we can have life beyond death,。
and this is eternal life.。
Right?。
Yes, we need to prepare, we need to go to work,。
but don't forget, we need to worship.。
We need to worship God and follow Him.。
We need to give thanks, right?。
We need to do the will of God, because we belong to Him,。
and we know only Jesus saves.。
All right, we're gonna end here,。
and we're gonna pray together.。
May this be a reminder to all of us。
how great a salvation that we have in Jesus.。
Let us all pray.。
Father God, we give you thanks for saving us,。
for redeeming us.。
Yes, all the human achievement that we can do,。
yes, we need to be responsible with our lives.。
We need to plan, we need to arrange,。
we need to implement our responsibilities,。
but ultimately, let us not forget that only you save.。
And thank you for your great love.。
Thank you for your grace.。
And be reminded that we are your people.。
Be reminded, we need to praise you.。
We need to give thanks to you, to follow you.。
Thank you for being our leader.。
Thank you for being our Lord.。
And lead our life in the coming week.。
And let us not be forgetful that we can stand in your grace。
to relate to you in our family, in our campuses,。
in our work, we're gonna glorify you.。
In Christ's name, we pray.。
Well, thank you very much, and I wanna see you next week,。
and let's worship together.。
Let's worship God and serve him together.。
God bless you.。
