Well, before we go into God's Word, let me pray for us.。
Father, it is your Word we are going to read and study.。
So we trust you will give us your Word and it will return to you having accomplished。
your will and your purposes.。
Be glorified as your Word is preached and proclaimed.。
We pray in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
So we are in 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 6-3.。
So 2 Timothy is believed to be one of the last letters that Paul wrote.。
And it was written to his son and his apprentice, his disciple, Timothy.。
So you know, it's been said that when people are at the edge of death, that their life。
flashes before their eyes.。
So what do you imagine are the final thoughts you're going to have when you come to that。
day?。
Will you remember a life that has lived well?。
Maybe you'll have dreams that you remember, dreams that have been forgotten, plans that。
are not fulfilled.。
Perhaps you'll have no regrets at all.。
Or maybe you'll have many regrets.。
And then what about what's on the other side of death?。
Do you think about what will be waiting for you?。
The Apostle Paul knows that he is about to face the end of his life.。
So he tells Timothy these final words.。
And it's from his second letter in chapter 4, verse 6.。
And he says, "I am already being poured out like a drink offering, and the time has come。
for my departure.。
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.。
Now there is in store for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous。
judge, will award to me on that day.。
And not only to me, but also to all who have longed for His appearance."。
So Paul says, "I am already being poured out like a drink offering."。
And I believe he is talking about a drink offering, referencing a drink offering that。
is talked about in the Old Testament.。
And this drink offering involves wine being poured on a hot altar.。
So when the alcohol and the sugars burn up, there's this wonderful smell in the air.。
An offering that goes to God.。
And the idea is that God would smell this wonderful smell, and he would be worshipped.。
So yes, Paul is talking about that he is going to die soon.。
Kind of like pouring out a cup and saying, "It's over."。
But he's also referring to, "My life is being poured out like worship to God."。
So he's not just saying, "My life is over, I'm done."。
But he's saying, "Look, my life is worship to God."。
And Paul talks and uses language that we would hear in athletics, in sports, and he's。
done this in other places too, but he does it here.。
So he says, "I have fought the good fight like a boxer."。
I have finished the race like a runner.。
And then he makes it clear, he's not just talking about physical activity, and he says,。
"I have kept the faith."。
In other words, Paul is saying, "Look, my life is filled with so much evidence that。
my life was lived for Jesus."。
This life is a wonderful scent to God.。
But I ask, what about me?。
What about you?。
Is your life, is my life so filled with proof that we have lived it well for Jesus?。
That you and me, we could both say confidently, "Look, my life has been lived for worship。
of God."。
God would smell the scent of my life and be, "Ah, please."。
Think about what would people who know you say about your life?。
How about a coworker, or a neighbor, or a friend?。
Maybe a family member.。
Would they say, "Are you a Christian?"。
What if they came and surprised you, they visited you at this church, didn't know you。
go to church here, and they find you and they say, "Wow, you're a Christian?"。
Would they say, "You know, I thought you might be because of the way you act."。
I thought there was something different about you because the way you are always so kind。
to me and other people.。
I thought maybe you were a follower of Jesus because the way you live, it reminds me of。
Jesus.。
Or would somebody find you at church and say, "What?。
You're a Christian?"。
The way you're always complaining about the boss at work.。
How mean you are to the neighbors.。
Your language, the way you curse all the time and say evil words.。
I had no idea you were a Christian.。
What would people say of us?。
See our lives, our speech, our attitude, our behaviors, these can tell people that something。
has happened to you.。
When Jesus has taken over our lives, people might ask, "What's going on?"。
And what an opportunity to tell them, "It's because of Jesus."。
Let me tell you about Jesus.。
He's loved me.。
He's changed me.。
He's made me new.。
I hope that our lives would invite people to ask.。
Now let's not forget as we look at this passage that Paul knows that he's going to die too.。
He says, "The time of my departure has come."。
And he's not just going to a new city.。
He's leaving this world and he will be in the presence of God.。
But Paul is not worrying about it.。
He's not fearful of it.。
I think he's excited about it.。
That Paul sees this as a release.。
He's being untied.。
From this body of death.。
In another letter he writes to the Romans in chapter 7, he says, "What a wretched man。
that I am."。
This is one of the holiest men in the world.。
And he says, "What a wretched man that I am."。
He says, "Who is going to save me from this body of death?"。
And what does he say?。
"Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord because Jesus has delivered me from this。
body of death."。
So most of us know somebody who seems to be trapped in their body.。
Maybe they're paralyzed or handicapped in some way.。
Maybe they have some kind of physical weakness.。
And their body has become like a prison.。
And can you imagine that as we want to live, we also want to be free.。
It's like somebody trapped in a burning house or in a car that's been in an accident and。
you're trapped inside the car and you're saying, "Somebody please help me get out."。
"Rescue me."。
Paul recognizes that Jesus has rescued him.。
Has Jesus rescued you?。
Have you put your faith in the one who says, "I can save you?"。
The one who says, "Not only I can save you, but I want to save you.。
I want you to be free.。
I want you to have a new life."。
You see, what we really need is not a doctor.。
We need the great physician.。
What we need is not someone who cares about us for a little while and then forgets about。
us once we're gone.。
As much as you might have a great relationship with your doctor, do you think he thinks about。
you after you've left the office?。
Jesus is a doctor who never stops caring about you.。
He never stops thinking about you.。
He never stops working on you.。
He is our creator.。
He is the one who has made us.。
So we don't need somebody who will just, you know, take a cut and fix it.。
Or somebody who will give us temporary comfort or temporary pleasure.。
We need someone who has conquered death and hell.。
Jesus alone has conquered death and hell.。
Death cannot touch him.。
And he offers us eternal life.。
This great physician is Jesus.。
And he is the creator who loves us and cares for us.。
He is the one who conquered death and Hades.。
You see, Paul was this very religious man.。
He thought he had done everything possible, everything necessary so that he could also。
have eternal life.。
But then one day he met Jesus.。
He was actually on the way to go and arrest and harm the people that love Jesus.。
And Paul too believed and trusted Jesus.。
He had lived such a perfect life that in Philippians, another letter he writes, he says, "If anyone。
else thinks he has reason to put confidence in the flesh," meaning the things he has done。
with his body, he says, "I have more confidence."。
And basically he says, "I have obeyed all the laws.。
I come from the right kind of family.。
And I'm from the right nation.。
And the way I live has been with great passion for God."。
So passionate I even persecuted his church.。
He says, "As far as the law is concerned, no one could blame me."。
What does he say?。
For Jesus, all of this is loss.。
To all of Paul's Jewish peers, they would have said, "Oh, I wish I had his life.。
I wish I could be righteous like him."。
But Paul continues and says, "Whatever was my profit, I now consider loss because of。
Jesus."。
And then he says, "What is more, I consider everything loss compared to the surpassing。
knowledge of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord."。
He says, "I consider it all rubbish, garbage, junk, worthless compared to knowing Jesus."。
Wow.。
Can you say that?。
That compared to knowing Jesus, everything else is just garbage?。
That without Jesus, everything is meaningless?。
That's why Paul says in verse 10 of chapter 3 of Philippians, "I want to know Christ and。
the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings."。
Do you get that?。
Paul doesn't just say, "I want all the benefits of knowing Jesus."。
He says, "I even want to share in his suffering.。
Jesus is so valuable.。
I even want to know what it feels like to suffer like him."。
And then even becoming like him in his death so that he could have the resurrection.。
I mean this sounds like crazy talk, doesn't it?。
But see this is not false humility.。
Paul gave up everything because he saw that Jesus was such a treasure.。
Everything else was junk.。
You see Paul met Jesus on the road to Damascus and his life was changed forever.。
That's when his race began.。
That's when his fight began.。
And Paul says, "I have fought the good fight."。
He says about the race, "I have already finished the race and I have kept the faith."。
It is believed that in ancient Rome and in ancient Greece that the athletes would make。
a promise.。
They would devote their race or their performance to their God.。
So if it was Zeus, that is their God, they would say, "For Zeus, I will run this race。
and I will win."。
And today we see this tradition carried out in the Olympics.。
Now I won't read their oath but you can go online and look up, Google the Olympic oath.。
What did they do?。
They promised that they are going to play fair.。
They are not going to cheat.。
They are going to compete honorably.。
And there is no question in my mind that Paul is thinking of this.。
All those who make promises to false gods, Paul says, "I have lived my life.。
I have run my race.。
I have fought my fight for the true God.。
I have kept the faith."。
So having completed what he was charged to do, Paul reveals his confidence.。
So look at 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 8.。
He says, "Now there is in store for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the。
righteous judge, will award me on that day, and not only to me but also to all who have。
longed for His appearing."。
Do you know what's waiting for you at the finish line?。
When the fight is done and the race is over, do you know what's waiting for you?。
When the ancient athletes won, they would receive a crown made of leaves.。
And while they might look beautiful and fresh for a moment, in just a couple days they will。
dry up and blow away.。
But Paul says, "I'm going to receive the crown of righteousness."。
This is an imperishable crown.。
This is a crown that the Lord delivers.。
And this is the crown that Paul says is not only for him, but it's for all of us who long。
for His appearing.。
So what does it mean to long for His appearing?。
Have you ever missed somebody?。
Maybe your husband or your wife had to go away on a long business trip.。
I figure in this room there are many immigrants.。
And it's a common story among immigrants that one husband or wife comes to America first.。
And sometimes it's years before they are reunited.。
That's what it's like to long for someone's appearing.。
That everything is focused on that day when you will see them again.。
And Paul says, "If you are this way with Jesus, you cannot wait to see Him again."。
The same reward is there for us.。
The crown of righteousness.。
And why is that?。
Because in Jesus is all of our hope.。
He's the one who holds our eternal future.。
Through Jesus, all the blessings of God come to us.。
But see it's not just what He gives us.。
But it's because He's the one we love.。
He is our treasure.。
So what's waiting for you when the race is over and the fight is done?。
I hope that at the finish line, Jesus will say, "Well done, good and faithful servant."。
You see some of us are going to finish so fast and so strong, we're going to race across。
the line.。
Others, we're going to think we're dying because we're so exhausted and we're going。
to cross the finish line.。
I have a feeling some of us, we're going to cross the finish line bloody, beat up.。
With our last breath, we'll cross that line.。
But for all of those who long to see Jesus coming, He will welcome us.。
He will reward us with the crown of righteousness.。
He'll say to us, "Well done, good and faithful servant."。
I hope every person in this room will hear those words.。
Will you be one of those who is shocked at the end?。
Jesus talks about some who will come to Him on the last day and they will say to Him,。
"Lord, Lord."。
And they're going to be shocked because Jesus will say to them, "Who are you?。
I don't know you.。
Get away from me.。
You're an evildoer."。
And they'll even plead with Him.。
"But Lord, didn't we do all kinds of amazing things for you?。
Even in your name?"。
But Jesus will say, "Get away from me."。
And what is it that they're missing?。
See Paul says, "I have done everything I need to do.。
I've obeyed all the laws.。
But His salvation was not sure until He knew Jesus.。
Until He said, "I don't trust me.。
I trust Jesus."。
I don't put my faith in me.。
I put my faith in Jesus.。
Where do you put your faith?。
You know, Paul reasoned God's solution to the sin problem that we all have.。
And it's best summarized, I think, in Romans chapter 5.。
And he says, "You see, at just the right time, when we were still powerless, Christ died。
for the ungodly.。
Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man, though for a good man someone might possibly。
dare to die.。
But God demonstrates His love for us in this.。
While we were sinners, still sinners, Christ died for us."。
While we were still sinners, Jesus died for us.。
He took the punishment for our sin.。
Do you believe this?。
Urban Voice, do you believe this?。
Pastor, you must have a church that doesn't like to speak out during the service.。
It's very quiet.。
Don't be ashamed.。
Do you believe this?。
Yes.。
I hope so.。
This is our hope, that Jesus died for us.。
My friends, if you have not trusted Jesus, could today be the day of your salvation?。
Is Jesus saying to you, "What are you waiting for?"。
I'm going to ask everybody to close their eyes right now.。
Let's keep our eyes closed.。
If there is someone here who has never trusted Jesus for the forgiveness of their sins,。
for eternal life, would you just raise your hand?。
No one's looking.。
It's just you and God.。
And would you tell Him in your own words?。
And it's okay.。
You can whisper it because He can hear you.。
Would you tell Him, "Jesus, I need you.。
I believe that you died for me because I am a sinner.。
I'm nothing like Paul.。
And if somebody like Paul had no hope in his own righteousness, how could I hope in。
my righteousness?。
I need your righteousness.。
Forgive me for my sin.。
Wash me and make me clean.。
I believe Jesus can do this for me.。
I trust Him.。
I believe He can give me eternal life.。
I believe Him.。
And now I also believe He can teach me how to live for Him.。
Because I want to live for Jesus.。
The one who loved me from the beginning and will always love me.。
The one who doesn't just say it, but the one who even laid down His life for me.。
Jesus, I trust you.。
Welcome me at the finish line.。
And say of me, "Well done, good and faithful servant.。
Enter into the joy of your master."。
Lord Jesus, I believe you will do this.。
Thank you.。
We pray in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
So my brothers and sisters, for those of us who have already put our faith in Jesus Christ,。
let's not be foolish runners who don't know where the finish line is.。
Who don't know that there is a finish line.。
We are not running just in any direction.。
We are running to our Savior.。
So I ask you again, can you say confidently like Paul, "There's so much evidence that。
my life has been lived well.。
There's so much proof that Jesus is in my life."。
If there isn't, perhaps this is a day when you might think, "What do I need to do?。
How do I need to change?。
What do I need to pray and ask God to help me with?。
Maybe it's time to ask, "What are the things that are keeping me from living that good。
life?"。
And asking God for help.。
Do you think he will help you?。
He does want to help you.。
Do you think he wants you to live and experience the good life?。
Of course he does.。
So when we ask God something he wants to do, do you think he'll say no?。
Of course not.。
He wants to give it to you.。
He's waiting for us to ask so he can give it to us.。
Urban Voice, God loves you.。
God loves this church.。
He has given birth to this church.。
And he will finish the work he started here.。
And I hope we'll all run across the finish line together and hear those wonderful words.。
Urban Voice, well done.。
My good and faithful servant.。
Join me in saying amen if you agree.。
Amen.。
Thank you, John.。
Thank you for the challenge.。
[APPLAUSE]。
