- Thanks, Kelly.。
Well, why don't we say hi to your neighbors?。
I know some of us are out of town。
and cannot be here this week,。
and there are people who have gotten。
to some minor or major car accident。
in the past week or two,。
and our prayers go out to them。
and to continue to pray for them,。
especially Phoebe.。
Phoebe's still on break。
because of the serious car accident.。
She's fine, but she does need more time。
to recuperate, all right?。
So let's keep praying for them。
and praying for our church ministry.。
Today, we are going to finish our series。
on atomic wisdom, okay?。
Atomic wisdom.。
This is part three, okay?。
Let me move this around.。
Part three.。
What we are doing is that we take。
one of the best seller out there,。
and the book is called "Atomic Habits," all right?。
Some of you might have heard of this book,。
"Atomic Habits."。
It's a very popular book.。
It talks about behavioral psychology.。
It talks about how we build good habits,。
and we ask the question,。
what kind of conditions are necessary for life change?。
What kind of conditions are necessary。
for the probability of achieving your goal?。
In the new year, some of us might have some new goals, right?。
You may have new goals to be on diet。
or do more exercise or be more healthy,。
something like that.。
We try to draw insight from this book。
called "Atomic Habits,"。
and it's already translated into different language,。
Chinese included,。
and it draws so much insight from behavioral psychology。
and trying to help us to set up a system,。
how to set up our life in general。
to have good habit, to have healthy habit,。
and we wanna combine this so-called secular insights。
into biblical wisdom,。
and that is on the right, the book of Proverbs,。
and if you wanna find the book of Proverbs in the Bible,。
it's right in the middle after the book of Psalms.。
The book of Proverbs is the part of the wisdom literature,。
and this is part three,。
so we're going to reveal what are the principle。
that are necessary for life change,。
and number one, we talk about 1% power, right?。
Remember, if you do a tiny change every day。
after a whole year of 360-some days,。
you will receive or you will achieve your goal。
in 30-some fold multiplication,。
and do not estimate the tiny power。
of every tiny change that you do every single day,。
and principle number two is incentives。
or disincentives are effective,。
incentives and disincentives.。
If you set up some goal in your life,。
for our church, for our fellowship,。
probably we're gonna read the Bible a little bit more,。
or we wanna pray more,。
we wanna build up some of the good habits,。
and we do need to set up some incentives and disincentives,。
but tell you the truth.。
I finished this series in the 10 o'clock service,。
and after the part three, after this one,。
a brother came up to me, and he said,。
thank you for your message,。
thank you for encouraging us to set up a good habit,。
good life, and he pulled out an envelope from his pocket。
and gave me $50, because he heard the first part of message,。
and he wanna build up some good habit,。
and he wants to have some incentive。
or disincentive in his life,。
so he was encouraged by the message, by the insight,。
and he built up some good habit,。
and after part three of the series,。
he came up to me and gave me $50, yeah,。
praise God, right, praise God, $50.。
Anyways, so you have to think about life changing,。
it's necessary to have some benefits, some incentives,。
right, you go to the gym, you get some incentive,。
and you're gonna praise yourself,。
or you wanna uplift yourself,。
so you have system with incentive or disincentives.。
Number three is specifics are better than generals, right,。
set up a goal, set up a system,。
which is as specific as possible.。
Number four is that our community is important,。
because the people that we hang out with,。
the people that we see a lot,。
will have influence on us, so the community is important.。
Number five is the power of default, default, all right,。
so you set up your habit, and you say,。
this is the priority, and this is the default of my life.。
Every single morning, what are your defaults?。
You wake up, and you brush your teeth,。
wash your face, right, these are your default, right,。
so in order to have good habit in our life,。
you have to have, you have to understand。
the power of default, the effect of default, all right,。
so the assumption to make this habit possible.。
Number six is making it personal, all right,。
making it personal, either you find a friend。
who is keeping you accountable,。
making it personal will make it even more possible。
to have your new habit set up.。
So number seven now, number seven。
is the power of environment, all right,。
so you need to understand, if you want your life to change,。
or you want a kid's life change,。
we need to set up a good environment, good environment,。
the physical environment have so much impact on us,。
all the people around us, all right.。
Many, many years ago, many years ago,。
many, many years ago, I used to have a TV in my bedroom,。
a TV in my bedroom, somebody gave me a TV, right,。
so I said, where should I put it?。
I put it in my bedroom, right,。
you think it's a good environment?。
No, right, no, it was so bad, it was so bad,。
so I took it off, right, because when we had the TV。
in the bedroom, you know, it disrupt my sleep, right,。
and my kids, when they were so much younger,。
they come into my bedroom all the time,。
because they wanna watch TV, or lying on the bed, you know,。
so I remove it, because it was a bad environmental setup.。
So behavioral psychology here, study finds that。
how people maintain a diet,。
how people maintain a good diet.。
As you know, in the United States, we eat too much, right,。
we have so much to eat, we have so much to eat,。
we always eat too much.。
Well, study finds that it is simple to maintain a diet,。
to eat a little bit less, and the method is very simple.。
You make a habit before you have a meal,。
you drink two glasses of water, right,。
you drink two glasses of water,。
then you will eat a little bit less, right,。
that makes sense, right?。
Many, many years ago, when my kids were still so much younger,。
five year old, six year old, you know,。
sometimes we, in Chicago, we drive all the way to Toronto,。
right, to have some good Chinese food, right, yeah.。
Here, the Chinese food is fine too,。
but you know, you go in Toronto,。
you got so much better, right?。
So many years ago, we go to Toronto for family trip,。
because the kids were so young,。
they did not know how to appreciate good food, right?。
The expensive food, they don't know how to appreciate it.。
So we, as good parents, we bring the kids first。
to the bakery, so we buy them a bun or so,。
and fill up their stomach,。
and then we go to a good restaurant, right?。
So we adults can enjoy it, right?。
That sounds like a very, very good insightful wisdom, right?。
We save a lot of money, right?。
Because we only buy good food for ourselves, right?。
Because they don't know how to appreciate it,。
why spend the money on them, right?。
So, the study finds that if your stomach。
is a little bit full, then you go to the meal,。
then there's a bigger chance for you to maintain a good diet.。
And the flip side is telling us that new habit,。
you have to make it easy and natural.。
And there are some behavioral psychological study。
done for cafeteria of a hospital in Boston.。
And the study is trying to find out。
how to encourage the staff to get healthy food。
in the cafeteria.。
And the plan is very simple,。
is to change the layout of the cafeteria.。
Change the layout of the cafeteria.。
Simply by changing the layout, you get so much effect.。
Now, the layout change has to do with bottled water。
being put at the entrance of the cafeteria.。
And fountain drink, where do you put it?。
You put it all the way back, right?。
Make it difficult for you to get fountain drink, soda.。
So, after three months, the study finds。
that water consumption increases 25.8%,。
and soda consumption drops by 11.4%.。
Isn't that amazing?。
It's the same way.。
I mean, many of you go to office and work in the office.。
Sometimes you find office cafeteria layout intentionally。
to discourage you to get snack food.。
Snack bowl or candy bowl or junk food。
is being placed in the breakout room.。
And then the healthy food or water is being put。
on some place where it's convenient.。
What goes wrong in the last few years。
is that people working from home now, right?。
And that is bad, right?。
That is bad.。
Because in the pandemics, everybody works from home,。
works at home, and there's a huge temptation, right?。
You work from home, right?。
With your computer, and kitchen is right next to you,。
and you get hungry, right?。
You get boring, and then you go to find some potato chips。
or some snack food, right?。
And that is unhealthy.。
And actually, the biblical wisdom has so much to say。
about our environment, especially about the people。
that we hang out with.。
They have effect on us.。
Proverbs 27, 17.。
27, 17.。
It says, "As iron sharpens iron,。
"as one man sharpens the face of his friend."。
It says, "If you surround yourself with good friends."。
Now, in the immediate context of chapter 27,。
it talks about bad relationships.。
So 15 or 14, verse 13, talk about bad relationship,。
bad community.。
It will have a negative effect on your life.。
But here in verse 17, the wise teacher is telling you,。
if you surround yourself with good and spiritual people,。
you will grow, you will grow.。
If not, your life will decline.。
You will slowly drift away from God.。
You will slowly drift away from the fear of the Lord.。
And it tells you, nobody can be a Christian alone, right?。
No one's an island.。
Everyone is connected, and that's why you need to belong。
to a spiritual community, a home church.。
And that is important.。
You cannot do Christian from home, all by yourself, right?。
And the biblical language for Hebrew is very interesting,。
because in Hebrew, here it tells you a piece of iron。
sharpening another piece of iron, right?。
And slowly, you will increase the value。
of both pieces of iron, right?。
The iron, one piece by itself, it has value.。
However, if you rub it with another piece of iron,。
both of them will get sharpened and becomes a knife, right?。
It becomes a knife or some tool,。
and the value of the piece of iron will increase.。
And what it said about, the funny thing about Hebrew。
is that in Hebrew, the word faith, faith,。
is actually used to describe the blade of a knife.。
The blade of the knife is actually the face of the knife.。
So the wise teacher is saying, as iron sharpening iron,。
as one friend sharpens the blade of the other friend,。
the face of the other friend.。
So no one can be a Christian alone.。
You need to plug in to some sort of community。
or small group or some local church。
in order for you to grow spiritually,。
to grow your relationship with God.。
So that is the power of environment.。
Principle number eight is habit bundling or habit stacking.。
Now what the psychologist is telling us。
is that if you wanna build some new habit,。
you need to tie the new habit to some established habits.。
Some habits that you are doing like your second nature.。
How many of you drive a stick shift?。
How many of you drive a stick shift?。
There you go, all right, here's the man.。
I drive a stick shift for so many years.。
So even today, I get into a car,。
my left foot will do something.。
I will try to find the clutch.。
And then there are times,。
because I have automatic transmission car as well,。
so sometimes I jump into the car。
and then try to find the clutch.。
There's no clutch there, right?。
Because it becomes a second nature for me, right?。
So that's established habit.。
So the psychologist is telling us。
if you wanna build new habit,。
you have to attach it or tie it with some established habit.。
And the easiest way to develop this。
is to think about, okay, established habit,。
and then I wanna add something to my established habit.。
Every morning or every night, you brush your teeth.。
When is the best time to floss your teeth?。
It's after brushing your teeth, right?。
Brushing your teeth is already an established habit, right?。
I hope that's true to you.。
It's established habit.。
It's kind of, you don't have to think about it.。
But if you are not flossing your teeth regularly,。
the best way, the behavioral psychologist is telling us,。
is to stack it onto some established habit.。
If you check the wisdom literature in the Bible,。
it actually talks about stacking,。
something adding to some of the habits。
that you may already have.。
Here, chapter four, verses 20 and following.。
The father is teaching the son to have wisdom.。
So he says, "My son, pay attention to what I say.。
"Listen closely to my words.。
"Do not let them out of your sight.。
"Keep them within your heart,。
"for they are life to those who find them,。
"and health to a man's whole body.。
"Above all else, guard your heart,。
"for this is the wellspring of life."。
You see the stacking here?。
One of the way you appreciate the book of Proverbs。
or wisdom literature is that there are short sayings,。
and sometimes one short sayings has two short verses.。
Verse B is stacking on verse A, all right?。
It's like staircase, A and then B, A and then B.。
Sometimes A, B, and C.。
Here, it says, "My son, pay attention."。
Pay attention.。
It's actually a military word.。
It describes soldiers, you know,。
standing, guarding on the top of watchtower.。
And what the soldier is doing is actually paying attention,。
paying attention to noise from the enemies.。
Maybe there's approaching army,。
approaching horses to the city,。
and you pay attention to it.。
So he says, "My son, pay attention to what I say.。
"Listen closely to my words."。
Pay attention, listen closely.。
Do not let them out of your sight.。
Put it right in front of you.。
Keep them within your heart, right?。
Stacking one on the other.。
Because they are life, right?。
They are the wellspring of life.。
I remember I told you when I was in college,。
I failed the first test of my chemistry class,。
and then the following nine tests, I built a new habit.。
After the lecture, after the class,。
I don't go with my classmates to go out to Starbucks, right,。
to have a good time there.。
No, I go immediately to the library。
and to review the materials.。
And I actually use less time to ace the test.。
All my classmates, they have fun, they have good time, right?。
But at the end, I ace all nine tests.。
And that is habit stacking.。
You stack one new habit to your established habit.。
And that is habit bundling.。
And principle nine is to make your goal attractive.。
Make it as attractive as possible.。
Use different wordings to describe your goal,。
to describe your system, to describe your new habit.。
If you use attractive words, you will tend to change.。
You go to the gym, you have to do some exercise.。
If in your mind, if in your mind,。
you use some negative description。
to describe that new habit, you will bound to fail, right?。
Oh man, I have to go, I have to drag my body to go, right?。
But if you describe your new habit in a nice way,。
there is a bigger chance for you to achieve it.。
You know, in the United States hotel rooms,。
they are trying to find ways to encourage the customers。
to reuse the towel.。
That will save a lot of money, right?。
Because sometimes you go to a hotel, you stay there,。
and then you use the towel only once or just part of it,。
right, and then you throw it on the ground, right?。
And then you use, and after that, you use a new towel, right?。
And by the end of the day,。
you probably use three or four towels, right?。
Which are unnecessary.。
And the hotel manager is trying to do a study.。
It says that if you wanna encourage guests。
to reuse their towel, you describe reusing towel。
with some good words.。
As you can tell here, it says,。
dear guests, every day, tons of water, gallons of water,。
are used to wash towels that have been only used once.。
And this hotel is committed to conserve natural resources,。
and this is how you can help, right?。
If you put it back on the rack, I'll use it again.。
If you throw it on the floor, please exchange it, right?。
And the study finds out, because of this wording,。
even at the wording, save the planet, right?。
You don't have to do anything to save your planet.。
You just reuse your towel, right?。
It makes you a hero, right?。
The study finds that this means it's effective.。
And then the end, the result is 75% of the guests。
in the hotel, reuse their towel more than once.。
Because you describe in such a way to save the planet,。
right, we do this together, you establish some social norm。
for people to conform to it, right?。
And the wisdom literature has so much to say about this.。
It describes wisdom with beautiful, glorious terms.。
Chapter four, wisdom is supreme, therefore get wisdom.。
Though it costs all of you, get understanding.。
Esteem wisdom is being personalized as a woman.。
Esteem her and she will exalt you.。
Embrace her, she will honor you.。
It is a garland of grace, it's a crown of splendor.。
If you get wisdom, you get crown of splendor, right?。
Supremely, you know, super positive terms to describe,。
you know, living a life of wisdom in front of God.。
Developing our spiritual life,。
developing our close relationship with our God, our creator.。
Positive terms, you know, positive effect。
of the descriptors that we use.。
Some years ago, there was a famous,。
a very famous speech therapist.。
Her name is Nina Rustin, Nina Rustin.。
She is a British therapist to help children。
how to correct their pronunciation,。
how to correct their speech.。
And what Nina Rustin does is more than。
the typical therapist will do.。
A typical therapist will correct the pronunciation,。
the saying of how they pronounce terms。
and how they make sound for the children.。
And that is necessary, but Rustin does more than that.。
Rustin call on the whole family of the child。
into her office and she assign assignment。
to each of the family members.。
And every family members, she said,。
"You have to do something in your family.。
"And what you do is you have to go home。
"and every single day make it a daily habit。
"to praise one of the family members."。
To find something specific,。
to praise one of the family members,。
maybe your sibling, maybe your parents.。
But you find something specific to appreciate,。
to thank, to praise.。
And then the one who is receiving the appreciation。
has to say something to receive it.。
You can't say a typical Asian way, right?。
No, no, no, no, I'm not good, right?。
We always pretend to be humble, right?。
This is our Asian culture.。
The one who is receiving has to say something。
in positive term.。
So for example, mom can say,。
"John, I love how you share with Matthew."。
And John cannot refuse it.。
John has to make it happen as well.。
John has to say something like,。
"Thanks, I appreciate the compliment.。
"It made me happier, thanks mom."。
And this dialogue has to be a daily habit。
in the whole family.。
And Linda Woodson finds that。
if you wanna improve a child,。
improve her speech,。
you cannot do it alone, right?。
You cannot just fix the child.。
You have to have the entire family get involved.。
And by doing so, the entire family culture has changed.。
We appreciate each other and encourage each other。
and build up the confidence of one another.。
And especially, it will help the child。
who is struggling with speech.。
And what's funny is that right after the therapy,。
not only the child, speech has been corrected.。
The husband and wife relationship has improved.。
And they come back to Linda Woodson and say,。
"Thank you, thank you for improving our marriage。
"and our family."。
So that is the principle.。
It is common sense, right?。
But to make our goal, to make the system attractive,。
make it positive, will increase the possibility。
of achieving our goal.。
The last principle, number 10.。
It is to establish system, not goal.。
Think about not goal, but the system achieving the goal.。
It's not the end that you most concerned about.。
It's the means to the end that is most important.。
So here I want to quote a long quote from Atomic Habits.。
And I only have the Chinese, but what it says is that,。
goal and results are not so much important.。
Why?。
Because he gives the example of Olympic athletes.。
All the Olympic athletes are trying to get the goal, right?。
Every one of them has the same goal, to win,。
to get the goal.。
So what is the difference between a winner and loser?。
The winner has set up a system with tiny habits。
of training himself or herself。
in order to get the gold medal, right?。
That is the only difference.。
The difference is not at the goals that they set.。
It's the system, it's the habits that they have.。
So all of this interesting, insightful psychology。
is telling us how to build a good life.。
And actually if you find, if you read the book of Proverbs,。
it has so much to say about how we should set up。
a good system in our life, right?。
Now in the book of Proverbs, the first nine chapters,。
first nine long chapters,。
are the introduction of the whole book.。
The introduction of the whole book.。
And this introduction is very interesting.。
It introduced two characters.。
The first character we can call lady wisdom,。
or woman wisdom.。
So wisdom is being personified,。
being described as a person, as a lady, as a woman.。
And the other character, the second character,。
is lady folly, or woman folly.。
That's very interesting because you find wisdom,。
it's like you look for a good wife, right?。
If you reject wisdom, if you love folly or foolishness,。
you will find yourself marrying to a wrong woman, right?。
That's very interesting, but if you consider the context,。
you understand why it is being described in such a way.。
Because the book of Proverbs is teaching of wisdom。
from the father to the son.。
When the son is growing up,。
one of the main goals in his life。
is to establish a good family, right?。
To find a good wife.。
So the father is using this means, this metaphor,。
to teach the son what is most important,。
is to find wisdom in God.。
In chapter nine, verses one to three,。
it says wisdom has built her house,。
he has held out his seven pillars.。
The wisdom, or lady wisdom, has prepared her meat。
and mixed with her wine.。
She has also set her big table, big table of good food,。
sent out her servant, her mates,。
and she calls from the highest point of the city.。
Is calling out to the young men, the young people,。
to come to her table, come to her house.。
She's calling out and yelling out。
from the highest point of the city.。
That is what the lady wisdom is trying to say.。
And then also, the lady folly has so much to say,。
and what she said is actually similar。
to what wisdom wants to say.。
Chapter nine, verses 13 to 14.。
The woman folly is loud,。
she's undisciplined, without knowledge.。
She sits at the door of her house,。
again prepare a table,。
on the seat at the highest point of the city.。
So the lady wisdom is calling out。
from the highest point of the city,。
and then the lady folly is calling out。
from the highest point of the city.。
And what's interesting about this phrase,。
at the highest point of the city,。
is at the top of the mountain.。
Now in the biblical culture,。
when you see a mountain,。
mountain top,。
you usually think of the temple,。
because all the temples are built on the Acropolis,。
the highest point of the city.。
So here lady wisdom at the highest point of the city,。
calling out to those who need wisdom,。
and the lady folly also calling out from the same place,。
from the highest point of the city.。
What does it mean?。
It means wisdom is not just secular,。
self-improvement pieces of advice.。
Wisdom is actually God himself, right?。
God is calling out from the highest point of the city。
to his temple, his house,。
to invite us to build relationship with him, right?。
But at the same time, the false gods,。
the gods of the culture,。
the gods out there, the false gods,。
are also calling out from the same place,。
from their temples,。
to entice people or to tempt people to follow them.。
So if you come to this point,。
you understand the book of Proverbs。
is not just talking about self-improvement strategies.。
It's not just being better.。
It's not just becoming a better man or woman.。
It's actually about worship,。
about your relationship with God.。
Remember the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.。
The fear of the Lord is the proper relationship。
between you and God is the beginning,。
is the foundation of wisdom.。
So it's not just talking about self-improvement.。
It's talking about us worshiping the right God,。
the true God.。
So I hope that we will end this series。
by this appeal,。
that God is calling you from his temple,。
from his dwelling place,。
to invite you to build a right relationship with him.。
And the good news we have from the Bible。
is that we, as sinners,。
we are being prepared for the salvation of Christ.。
And Jesus came in our place,。
in the place of sinner,。
to die for us, to sacrifice himself for us on the cross,。
in order to bring us back and redeem us。
so that we can be the children of God.。
And I hope that this will be true to each and every one of us。
that we will build on the beginning of wisdom。
to get to know God in Christ.。
Everyone who has accepted Jesus Christ。
as his personal savior and the Lord of his life。
will be related to God,。
totally forgiven,。
and stand righteous in front of the Holy God.。
And that is the beginning of wisdom.。
And I hope that this will be your decision today。
to get to know God in Jesus Christ,。
and you will begin a life of wisdom.。
Let's pray together.。
Father, we love you because you came to save us.。
You came to redeem us in Christ Jesus.。
Thank you for the way of wisdom。
that is laid before us.。
Thank you for bringing us back to you.。
And our Lord Jesus is the way, the truth, and life.。
So we come and approach you without fear,。
approach you afloat,。
fearlessly,。
all because Jesus Christ has done so much for us,。
forgiving our sins and accepting us just as we are.。
Thank you for what Jesus has done for us。
to die on the cross, die for our sin,。
so that we can live.。
And thank you for inviting us into your relationship.。
And I pray that each and every one of us。
will begin with our relationship with you,。
to invite Jesus to be our savior,。
that we can call you as our father.。
Thank you, and make us new.。
Help us to build new habit of wisdom,。
to live wisely,。
to live in the fear of you,。
and to live wisely, to walk wisely,。
to bring glory to you.。
In Christ's name, we pray.。
Well, God bless you all,。
and I hope to see you next week,。
and we continue to worship our God.。
Stay behind for our lunch,。
and after our lunch, around one o'clock,。
we will split into different groups for Bible study,。
and we'll continue to study the Gospel of Mark.。
All right, God bless.。
