Good morning church and welcome back to。
Uv it is good to begin the new year in the house of the lord worshiping。
Him together。
So if you have been with us, uh。
Since last year you will know that every first sunday of the month besides going through。
Or participating in communion. We have also been diving into jesus sermon on the mount。
And one of the reasons that I choose to preach expository through this section, uh in matthew from matthew chapter 5。
to 7。
section by section verse by verse。
In contrast to preaching topically where I pick a topic and then just kind of like find different passage to supplement it。
It's because。
I cannot just choose what I want to talk about in the bible and avoid the topics that I don't want to speak on。
Rather the scripture itself。
Function as a guide for myself and the word of god dictates what I will be preaching on。
So today we will actually dive into a topic which can be a little taboo to talk about in church at times。
And not only for the church. I feel like this is also especially true in our asian culture。
Which tends to be a little more reserved at times at least in my own experience growing up。
So today we're actually going to touch upon the topics of sex and sexuality。
And if i'm being honest, I would probably avoid preaching on this topic if I have the option。
Because it is a very sensitive topic and also highly contested。
issues。
Especially in our current cultural climate。
However, jesus himself he doesn't shy away from this topic. So I feel like as the church we should not be as well。
as we are。
In fact sex and sexuality is part of god's original design that he called good。
The unfortunate reality is that the world the world that we live in currently is constantly bombarding us with all different ideologies and perspective。
That is just so far off from god's original design。
So。
As the church as christ followers。
I think it is even more urgent and important for us to understand what godly sexuality looks like。
So if you have your bible with you, let's turn with me to matthew 5。
And we're going to read from verse 27 to verse 30。
So matthew chapter 5 verse 27。
You have heard that it was said。
You shall not commit adultery。
But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart。
If your right eye caused you to stumble。
Gouch it out and throw it away。
It is better for you to lose one part of your body than your whole body to be thrown into hell。
And if your right hand caused you to stumble。
Cut it off and throw it away。
It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to go into hell。
so。
Let's pray。
Heavenly father。
As we open up your word this morning。
I just ask that um, your spirit will be with us。
Prepare our hearts as we receive your word。
And I also ask that your holy spirit will be with me as I preach this morning。
I ask that uh, you will take away anything that is not from you。
And may your word and your word only be preached this morning。
Amen。
So I know it is the new year already but not that long ago we just celebrated christmas, right?。
And usually during the christmas season besides celebrating the birth of jesus。
There are usually a lot of activities that is centered around gifts, right?。
Whether it is gift givings or gift exchange and in fact during our christmas service here。
We had a white elephant gift exchange as well。
And so this past christmas in our youth group in summit。
We organized a white white elephant christmas gift exchange for our high schooler as well。
And if you have participated in any sort of like gifts related activities。
I'm sure you have seen this old trick being done at some point where someone will put their actual gifts inside like a mismatched box。
Maybe like a bunch of toilet paper in like a really nice ps5 box。
And until you get to the actual gift itself。
It is pretty much impossible to tell what is actually inside the box。
And so without fail during our summit christmas party a couple of our students。
They did the same old trick。
One of them ensign. He's a guy but he bought。
a pretty nice barbie doll。
But instead of kind of like wrapping it in like a nice wrap or box。
He actually put it in like a 20 pound like noodles box basically like a huge box that he say he just like found at home。
And other students rex he bought also like some card games that is pretty nice。
But he ended up like putting it in layers after layers of different box cereal boxes shoe boxes and then also like different wrappings as well。
so。
Imagine you are the person receiving the gifts in this situation。
What actually matters to you?。
Is it the box itself?。
or the actual gift。
Would you rather get a really nice box?。
But with a gift inside there you're like, uh, I don't really need that。
Or would you rather get a general or basic box but with a gift inside that you actually want?。
I'm sure most of us will probably choose the later, right?。
So in the same way in our passage today。
We'll see that when jesus he talks about righteousness。
And what it means to live rightly as god's people。
in god's world。
under god's rule。
He doesn't really care about the outward appearance of obedience or compliance。
But what jesus really cares about is the posture and attitude of our heart。
So in my last sermon we began to dive into this new section in jesus sermon on the mount which includes six case studies。
On jesus on jesus own version of righteousness and how he has fulfilled the law and the prophets。
Each of these six examples they highlight how we as christ followers ought to live in community. We find another。
Within the church and also with those outside of the church in the world around us。
And last time we look at the first examples。
On the sixth commandment you shall not murder and how jesus points to the root issues behind murder and showing anger and content。
towards her brothers or sister。
And the root issue is not treating a person made in the image of god with respect and dignity。
And so today the righteousness that jesus redefines for us and for his listeners。
Centers around the seventh commandment. You shall not commit adultery。
And similar to the first examples on murder jesus teaching on adultery today also has to do with something that is inside of us。
The core desires and intention of our hearts that impacts how we relate to other people made in the image of god。
So here is my three main point for today。
First we need to reclaim a godly view of sex and sexuality。
And second we need to ruthlessly eliminate sin。
And lastly, we need a transformed heart to live rightly。
So point number one we need to reclaim a godly view of sexuality。
Let's take a look again at verse 27。
You have heard that it was said。
You shall not commit adultery。
So once again, we see this same formula that jesus is using here. You have heard that it was saying。
And when jesus audience hear this they would immediately know that jesus he is about to start a discussion。
on the particular mosaic law。
And this time the specific law that jesus will focus on is on the seventh commandment. You shall not commit adultery。
But what is adultery?。
For jesus adultery refers to any sexual relationships that is outside of the covenant of marriage。
Again adultery refers to any sexual relationships that is outside of the covenant of marriage。
In other words, this commandment is not just for the married couples。
But it also include any kind of sexual relationships。
That is outside of the bound of marriage including。
Like people that are single like me。
So if you have any sexual relationship outside of the marriage covenant or without a marriage covenant, it is considered as adultery。
But once again as the only one who has perfectly who has perfectly fulfilled the law of god。
Jesus he goes one step further and give his own interpretation。
Pointing us towards the heart behind this seventh commandment of you shall not commit adultery。
So jesus continues in verse 28。
But I tell you this。
Anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart。
So right here jesus is not talking about。
Just kind of like looking at someone and finding them attractive。
But the kind of looking that jesus talks about here is the kind of looking that makes you objectify a person。
Treating someone as an object to bring yourself pleasure。
And when we objectify a person we strip them of their god-given dignity。
So in some way this is similar to when we kind of like show anger and contempt towards another brother or sister。
And also notice how it begins。
It begins with the eyes looking right?。
And then we stay at what we look at for a little bit longer than we should。
And what we see becomes the desires of our heart。
Does this pattern sounds familiar at all。
This is the same pattern that we find in the stories of the fall in genesis tree。
This is genesis tree. It says when the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye。
And also desirable for gaining wisdom。
She took some and ate it。
So my question for us is this。
What are our eyes looking at。
And do these things help us to follow jesus or do these things help us to follow what our corrupted heart desires。
and。
Especially living in the age of social media。
there's like so many things that we look at whether it is on our screen on the tvs or。
Around us all the time. So I think it is even more important to。
really pay attention to where we kind of like。
Put our time into what are some of the things that we look at in our daily life。
And at this point I think it is important to make a few clarification。
So we don't swing all the way to the other end of the spectrum and fall into bondage as well。
so。
first clarification。
We need to make a distinction between temptation。
And the act of following true with our temptation。
Okay, so there's a difference between the temptation itself and also the action of following true with our temptation。
It is not a sin when temptation like the last thought pop up in our mind。
Because we don't have complete control again. We have some sort of control, but we don't have complete control of our thoughts。
or our surroundings。
You can't just be like, okay, I don't want to be tempted so i'm just gonna lock myself inside a cave。
So I just don't see anything. We're not able to leave like that, right?。
So that's not possible。
Also, it is not wrong to have sexual desires in fact it is part of who we are as human beings。
But what we do have control over is this。
Do we follow true with our temptation or do we resist it?。
Do we entertain the lustful thoughts in our mind longer than we should or do we cut it off right away。
Do we let our sexual desires and passion。
Take control over us or do we practice self-control which is the fruit of the spirit。
So what truly matters。
Is how we deal with temptations?。
and our desires。
when they come up。
so one of the。
famous theologian。
A german theologian martin luther if you don't know him. He's pretty much the person who started up the。
Protestant reformation out from the catholic church。
And this is what he says about temptation。
it says。
Thus you see that temptation can be avoided by no one。
But resistant may be made。
And with prayer and recourse to divine aid we can put ourself in readiness to meet such designs。
In the book of an old father we read that a young brother expressed a desire to be rid of his thoughts。
Thereupon the old father said。
Dear brother, you cannot prevent the birds from flying in the air over your head。
But you can prevent them from building a nest in your hair。
So as saint augustine says we cannot prevent offenses and temptations。
But by prayer and invocation of the help of god we can prevent them from overcoming us。
This is from his explanation of the lord's prayer and the sixth petition, which is lead us not into temptation。
So again。
What he's basically saying is we cannot prevent。
Thoughts from coming up in our mind. We cannot prevent the bird from flying in the air over us。
But what we can control is to prevent the bird from building a nest on our head。
or prevent those kind of negative thoughts to。
Like take roots in our mind。
So again, it is not a sin to have sexual desires or experience temptation。
But when we give into the temptation or let our passions and desires take control over us。
That becomes an issue。
So that is my first clarification。
second clarification。
Sex and sexuality are part of god's design. They're not something that is dirty or sinful。
But quite the opposite。
They're actually meant to be good gifts from god for us as human to celebrate to enjoy。
Unfortunately, the reality is that just like the rest of the creation this good and perfect gifts from god has been tainted by sin。
You've probably heard of ideas such as um, I can be whatever I want to be or I can do whatever I want。
as long as it makes me happy or。
More recently my body my choice。
And of course, I don't have time in my sermon to dive into all these different。
issues on gender and sexuality。
But I want to point you to a resource if you're interested to learn more about how we as christ followers。
We can approach this topic. So this is a book called love thy body by nancy piercey。
And in this book she talks about issues all the way from abortion。
homosexuality and transgenderism。
to the use of porn to divorce and。
Cohabitation and one of the reasons that I appreciate this book is because the author。
nancy。
She approached all these topics。
Both with a strong biblical conviction and a deep compassion for the people at the same time。
So if you want to pick up a new book to read for the new year, I would recommend。
Highly recommend this book love thy body by nancy piercey。
So。
back to our clarification, so the biggest red flag。
and the most glaring issues with this kind of attitude of I can be wherever I want to be or my body my choice。
Is that when god created the world?。
There is a certain grain or certain flow to it. Just like the grain on a piece of wood。
I'm sure all of you have seen a piece of wood, right or even like touch them。
If you have never seen a piece of wood with some like wooden structures behind that sound booth。
You can go over there and observe it, uh later。
But if you have a piece of wood and you look at it carefully。
You probably see a certain like grain and flow to it, right?。
And if you touch it and kind of like move your hands along the grain, it probably feels relatively smooth。
But if you try to go against the grain。
A grain against the flow and kind of like move your hands on the opposite direction。
You probably might get hurt or even get some splinters, right?。
So in the same way。
In our universe when god created it, there are certain natural orders。
Patterns and inherent structures that is within the universe。
And when we live according to it, we will experience the flourishing life that god has promised。
But when we choose to go against this grain of the universe。
We will experience dysfunction。
and destruction。
So let's take gravity for example, so gravity it is always pulling things towards where。
Towards the center of the earth, right?。
You can never change that it is the fact when god created the world gravity is always pulling things towards the center of the earth。
So you can't just complain to god. Hey god, this gravity is too restrictive。
Why is it only pulling things in one direction?。
I want to be able to fly I want to go against gravity。
well, of course。
You can choose to you can still choose to do whatever you want by jumping off a cliff and trying to fly。
But you might actually end up dying doing that。
So this is the same thing when it comes to sex and sexuality。
There is a certain order。
And design to it。
That we have to live according to if we want to truly experience the flourishing life that jesus has promised。
So。
I just spoke to some of the issues that i've seen in our current culture。
Now I want to take some time to speak to us as the church and some of the things that we can do better as well。
So as the church。
as christ followers。
Instead of telling the non-believing world that they get it all wrong。
And kind of like judging them because we think that we are right。
I think we can actually do a better better job in witnessing to the world。
The beauty of god's design for sex and sexuality instead of just pointing out what the world is doing wrong。
So when I was a student at iit I had an opportunity to。
Go to ecuador for a summer mission with crew。
And during the middle of our six weeks mission trip。
We had a mid-mission retreat at this place called banyos in ecuador. I know it is banyos is also bathroom for spanish。
Uh in spanish, but this place is far off from looking like a bathroom。
This is a very popular tourist attraction。
Kind of like on the mountain side in ecuador。
And one of the things that we get to do when we were at banyos is that we got to hike up at the summit of。
Tungurahua, which is an active volcano in ecuador。
So I remember when we arrived at the summit it was probably around like sunset around evening at that time。
And the view up there it was absolutely stunning。
Like I was just surrounded by all these great mountains and in the midst of it。
I just feel like so small and you just look out and you see the clouds and also like the sun like。
The sunlight the golden rays from the sunlight just kind of like piercing through the clouds。
So I actually have a few pictures um to show。
So these are some of the pictures that I took on that trip。
So the pictures on the left is kind of like my point of view when I got up to the summit。
So if you look right in front of you, that is pretty much the volcanoes。
And then if you look a little bit to the right there's like this treehouse kind of structure over it, right。
And on that treehouse, there's this swing called swing at the end of the world. So there's a picture on the right。
So when you actually go on this swing, you kind of you pretty much just like swing off the cliff。
into like。
Just like I don't know how many feet drop like below you。
but again。
I know it is a little risky, but it is actually the view out there is also like really really gorgeous。
You just look at all the mountains below you all the trees and all the valleys。
And that is probably like some of the most like some of my most favorite place that I have visited so far。
So imagine。
If I when I share with you about my experience visiting, uh, banyos。
Instead of focusing on the beauty of this place。
All the things that I tell you。
are the negative part like oh, it is probably a little risky and dangerous because。
This volcano this mountain is one of the most active volcanoes in ecuador。
It may erupt at any time and I don't know what will happen。
or hey, you have to be really careful out there and。
probably skip the swing because。
if。
You fall off from the swing you might just die。
So imagine if this is all I tell you about this place。
Do you think this place will still be compelling enough for you to visit?。
So in the same way when we talked about god's design for sex and sexuality。
I think we have to do a better job in highlight the beauty of god's creation and god's design。
And make it more compelling instead of just focusing on all the negatives。
So what is sex supposed to be according to god's design。
It is a unity fact between a man and a woman within the covenant of marriage where two become one flesh。
And this is a union not just the physical body。
but also of the mind。
the emotion the soul and the spirit。
More importantly。
It is supposed to point forward to the relationship。
between christ。
And his church。
And this is a beautiful image。
So church。
We need to do a better job in reclaiming a godly view on sex and sexuality。
And make it more appealing to the world around us。
We need to reclaim a godly view on sex and sexuality。
One that is in alignment with god's design。
And then show it to the world. So that is our first point。
So second point we need to ruthlessly eliminate sin. So take a look with me at verse 29 and 30。
If your right eye caused you to stumble。
Gouge it out and throw it away。
It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell。
And if your right hand causes you to stumble cut it off and throw it away。
It is better for you to lose one part of your body than of your whole body to go into hell。
So you might be wondering。
Didn't jesus just emphasize what is truly important?。
It's not our outward actions, but the desires and intention of our heart。
Why is he all of a sudden talking about the eye and the hand again?。
Well, yes jesus cares about the true intention of our heart。
But right here jesus is trying to show how seriously we should treat sin。
And the consequences if we take sin lightly。
So in both of these hypothetical situations。
We find the phrase cause you to stumble if your right eye caused you to stumble or if your right hand caused you to stumble。
This phrase caused you to stumble comes from the greek word scandalito, which is where we get our english word scandalous。
And some english translation. They actually translate it as causing you to sin。
But here it means more than just simply causing someone to commit a sin。
Scandalito here carries the nuance of causing someone to steer away from the path that leads to eternal life in jesus。
towards the life。
That leads to eternal destruction。
And how do we know this if you look at the consequences? It is hell or gehenna the hellfire awaiting。
If we don't deal with the stumbling block that causes us to sin。
And when you look at the solution that jesus provide for us that he instructed us to do it is pretty violent and aggressive, right?。
Why because when it comes to dealing with sin we need to be decisive。
and ruthless。
Jesus, he's not trying to tell us to literally。
Gouge our eyes or to amputate a limb。
But he is using hyperbole to get our attention in order to make his point。
That we need to ruthlessly eliminate sin if we want to follow him and become more like him。
When the apostle paul speaks to the church in ephesus on how they should live。
In light of their new identity in christ. He warns them do not give the devil a foothold。
If we leave even just a tiny bit of foothold to the devil and think that uh, we will probably be all right。
I want you to think again。
I'm sure you all have heard of the stories of david and beth sheba。
and a lot of time we kind of uh。
When we think of these stories we think of it as kind of like the starting point of david's downfall, right?。
But I think this david downfall actually begins way earlier than that。
The story of david and beth sheba begins with king david being complacent during a time of war。
So imagine during a time of war。
Second samuel told us that instead of going out to war with his men king david. He actually stays back in his palace。
in jerusalem。
And on this particular day, he woke up not in the morning。
Not in the afternoon。
but in the evening。
A king during a time of war should be on high alert and on standby mode all the time, right?。
But king david here he's doing the opposite。
He is sleeping in his palace until the evening。
This shouldn't be the routine of a king during a time of war。
However, david he's probably just getting complacent because god has given his armies victories。
after victories after victories over all the different enemies。
And when david leaves this tiny foothold for the devil by being complacent。
On that particular evening it led to more and more serious sin。
beginning with him lasting over beth sheba。
And then committing adultery with her。
And then trying to cover up his own mistakes。
And when his plan to cover up fell。
David ultimately came out with the plan to have besheba's husband uriah killed in the battlefield。
So do you see how serious the consequences can be if we leave just even a tiny foothold for the devil。
This is why we need to ruthlessly。
eliminate sins in our lives。
Especially the parts that we have control over like resisting temptation。
and taking control over。
our passion and desires。
However, I understand that this is easier said than done a lot of times。
I will be the first one to admit that there are probably way too many times where I myself。
failed to resist temptation。
Regardless of how hard I tried。
Can you somewhat relate to that?。
And this brings me to my final point we need we need a transformed heart to live rightly。
We need a transformed heart to live rightly。
We can't live rightly by just not breaking the law or by trying to follow the law。
But we need a transformed heart to live rightly。
Throughout israel history in the old testament the people of god。
failed to live up to god's law generations after generations which ultimately led to the destruction of jerusalem。
And also the exiles in babylon。
However in the midst of this nationwide tragedy。
We find a glimpse of hope。
Where god promised that he would renew the covenant with his people。
And transform their heart。
So this is in the book from the book of jeremiah. So jeremiah 31。
verse 31 to 34。
The days are coming declares the lord when I will make a new covenant with the people of israel。
And with the people of judah。
It will not be like the covenant I made with their ancestors。
When I took them by the hand to lead them out of egypt。
Because they broke my covenant though. I was a husband to them declares the lord。
This is the covenant I will make with the people of israel。
After that time declares the lord I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts。
I will be their god and they will be my people。
No longer would they teach their neighbor or say to one another。
Know the lord because they will all know me from the least of them to the greatest。
declares the lord。
For I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins no more。
so。
What what the lord is saying here is basically under this new covenant。
The law of god will no longer be inscribed on stone tablets。
But it will be inscribed in our hearts in our mind。
And church we are the people who live under this new covenant。
The same spirit who raised jesus from the dead is also living in us now giving us the power to overcome sin in our lives。
So in order to live rightly before the lord we cannot do it in our own strength or in our own ability。
But we need a heart that is being transformed by the power of the gospel。
And this is the good news that jesus brings to us that we're not only free from the penalty from of sin。
But we are also free from the power of sin over us。
And we know that one day when jesus comes again, we will be free from the presence of sin forever。
And this is why I think that jesus he is very intentional in starting his kingdom teaching。
On the beatitudes which pretty much focus on the attitude and the posture of our hearts。
By being poor in spirit by being humble and meek。
This is because jesus he understands that we need a transformed heart to be able to live rightly before the lord。
Not just by trying to not break the law or trying to follow the law perfectly。
That is the way of the pharisees and the teachers of the law。
So。
As we begin the new year. I think this is a good time for us to set our hearts in the right place。
And allow god to transform it in order to live rightly。
Not through our own strength, but through the work of jesus who has fulfilled who has completely who has perfectly fulfilled。
The righteous requirement of god and also through the power of the holy spirit living in us。
So I have some reflection questions for us here to reflect。
As we kind of like begin our new year。
So what is god saying to me this morning?。
And what am I going to do about it?。
Are there certain areas or sin struggles in my life where I need the power of jesus to transform my heart。
In order to live rightly before the lord。
so I would encourage you all to take some time or just。
Take a picture of these questions and maybe in the following week just take some time to reflect on these questions。
and as pastor mark say。
Um, this is the new year and we want to be able to have a good。
um kind of like。
Yeah a good routine in our spiritual walk in our walk with jesus as well if we want to truly follow jesus。
So, um, let's pray。
Heavenly father。
We thank you that uh, you are not a god。
who punish sins。
But you are a god。
Who show us grace even though we?。
As human we have time and time again failed to live up. Um。
to your standard of righteousness。
So jesus we thank you for this gift of righteousness that you have given us at the cross。
That we are able to come before you。
Just as we are。
Carrying all the weight and the burdens。
And laid it in front of your throne。
Father as we begin the new year, I just ask that you would give each and every one of us here in this room。
Just a desire to know you more just a desire。
To live in a way。
That uh represents our kingdom citizenships that represents who we belong to。
So grant us the power through your holy spirit。
To be able to live rightly before you and to be able to witness the world around us。
the beauty of god。
The beauty of who you are jesus。
So help us jesus in your son's name. We pray。
amen。
So thank you for coming this morning again. Happy new year and we have some refreshment outside for you to enjoy。
So I would encourage you to stay back. Enjoy some fellowship with us。
and。
You are dismissed。
