And we turn to the Bible today, all right?。
We started this series on seven letters。
to the seven churches in the book of Revelation,。
and I want to tell you this, God writes letters, okay?。
God writes letters.。
Just imagine if God writes you an email, all right,。
and tells you what he thinks of you,。
as a Christian, as a Jesus follower,。
as a church, as a group,。
what would that email tell you, all right?。
If God writes you an email,。
if God's going to write you a letter,。
what would the letter be,。
and what is the content of the letter?。
Think about it, because this series,。
we are thinking about this important topic,。
is what Christ himself, the head of the church,。
you know, the head of the church is not the pastor,。
is not the deacons,。
is not the court team members or ministry team,。
is not you, definitely,。
the head of the church, or head of our church,。
is Christ himself, right?。
Jesus Christ himself.。
What does he think of our church?。
That is what matters, right?。
And what does he think of you, your role in the church, right?。
In the book of Revelation, Christ himself, Jesus himself,。
writes letters to the seven churches。
in what today is called Turkey,。
in the western Turkey.。
And we went through this in the first letter to Ephesus,。
and there are seven churches there, right,。
in seven different cities.。
The first one being Ephesus, right?。
And then the second one is,。
can you make it out from the map?。
Smyrna, right?。
Smyrna.。
And then kind of go clockwise, actually,。
clockwise, right, all the way to the seventh one,。
which is the old Assyria.。
And we read the first letter to the church of Ephesus,。
and now we come to the second letter.。
So we're moving from Ephesus, we follow that line,。
kind of the postal delivery service route,。
moving north to another harbor,。
another port city called Smyrna, all right?。
If you go to Smyrna today,。
you find that this is a modern city,。
and it's a very thriving city, actually, right,。
in western Turkey.。
By the way, I'm trying to put together。
a church group going to Turkey and Greece next year.。
I don't know if you're interested.。
You're interested, right?。
Yeah, you have to pay, right?。
You have to pay for it.。
Anyways, we're trying to put together,。
you know what happened in the Mediterranean East,。
the Israel-Palestine conflict, just tragic, right?。
And everything just, you know, stopped right now, right,。
in terms of tourism.。
But I'm trying to, you know,。
put together a New Testament tour,。
not going to Israel,。
because I don't know when I can go to Israel,。
or we can go to Israel,。
but hopefully the conflict will die down a little bit,。
and the land will have peace.。
But I'm trying to put together a New Testament tour,。
and that is going to Turkey and Greece, all right?。
Follow the footstep of Paul kind of tour.。
It'll be fun, two weeks.。
And by the way, if you're interested, let me know.。
I'm not sure, there's no guarantee I can put it together,。
but it also depends on what's going on over there。
and in the other part of the world.。
But anyways, if you go to Smyrna today,。
it's Izmir in Turkey.。
It's a thriving city.。
You see the cruise line cruising off。
from the harbor of modern day Smyrna.。
And if you visit the site,。
you find everything you can find in Chicago, right?。
You know, Supermall and all that stuff,。
everything is modernized.。
But, you know, that's the fun thing。
about going to biblical sites.。
You know, you always have the mix。
of ancient and modern, right?。
You can go to the mall and there's Starbucks there,。
you know, get a cup of cappuccino or something like that.。
And you don't feel like you're going somewhere else, right?。
You're still in the, kind of in the West, right?。
Kind of in America.。
But, you know, walking down the street,。
you find the ancient site。
where the archeologists has uncovered.。
And they uncovered the first century Smyrna, right?。
It was an ancient city with a good harbor, just like today.。
Back then it was a good harbor,。
just like Ephesus had a good harbor back then.。
A big marketplace, right?。
A big marketplace, you see down there, all the columns.。
Big marketplace, a forum and a theater,。
Roman stadium, temples and library,。
and all the public buildings.。
You see the mountain there is called Mount Pagus,。
Mount Pagus.。
And it's a city of great building.。
And from the ancient texts,。
we know that people are praising the city, Smyrna,。
as a beautiful city.。
And it's like a city surrounding that mountain,。
surrounding that hill, just like a crown, you know?。
All the city and all the ancient, you know,。
residents and cities and development at the foothill。
and surrounding that hill.。
And on top of that hill, Aquapolis, there's a temple.。
And that is the background of the letter。
to the Christians in Smyrna.。
Now, again, this is one of the seven letters.。
And there were seven letters there.。
If you read them through,。
you find that only two letters have no criticism。
of the churches.。
There are only two out of the seven, right?。
If you take it as a whole, you know, we fail, right?。
Only two out of these seven churches have no criticism。
from Christ the letter writer himself.。
So Christ will get the seven churches.。
There are only two churches that have praises only,。
commendations only, no criticism.。
And one of them is Smyrna.。
The other one is Philadelphia.。
So this letter goes,。
"To the angel of the church in Smyrna write,。
"these are the words of him," Jesus himself,。
"who is the first and the last。
"and who died and came to life again."。
First and last, right?。
That kind of echoes the familiar phrase in the Bible,。
Alpha and Omega.。
Remember that one?。
Alpha and Omega, there are 24 letters in Greek.。
And the first letter being Alpha,。
the last letter, the 24th letter is Omega.。
So first and last, Alpha and Omega,。
that means that kind of title for Jesus,。
meaning he has everything under control.。
He knows everything, right?。
He's the first and last in your life.。
He's the Alpha Omega of your life, right?。
Where did you come from?。
Where did you born?。
Where were you born?。
And what have gone through in your life journey?。
From day one of your existence up to now。
and until future someday, you know,。
you will end your life journey, Alpha and Omega.。
That is our Lord Jesus Christ.。
And he says, "I know everything about you."。
Every single letter and every single detail,。
every single day and hour you have been through。
and you will go through,。
God's saying he is the Alpha and Omega.。
He's the first and the last.。
And he knows everything about you。
and he has everything under his control.。
And so as to the questions in Smyrna。
and that kind of a comprehensive title.。
And also he said, "He died and came to life," right?。
"He has conquered death。
"and death should have no authority over you."。
Yes, death and evil have some effect on you.。
It can influence you.。
It can overpower you,。
but it has no ultimate authority in your life。
because God in Christ Jesus has conquered the final enemy,。
which is death.。
So this dual introduction of Christ himself。
offers some hope and encouragement to all of us, right?。
Especially the small churches,。
small house churches in Smyrna.。
Jesus knows everything。
and he has conquered the final enemy.。
And it has to do with what they're experiencing at that time.。
And I'm sure if we read this short letter,。
you'll find some echoes,。
you'll find some resonance.。
You know, it's kind of like me, you know?。
It's kind of like me.。
Verse nine, the letter goes on.。
"I know your afflictions and your poverty,。
"and yet you are rich.。
"I know the slander of those who say they are Jews,。
"but they are not, but they are a synagogue of Satan."。
Now, from this verse,。
do you think the church in Smyrna is rich or poor?。
Was it a mega church?。
Was it a medium-sized church?。
It's a very small church, right?。
They don't have a lot of resources.。
They are poor, right?。
In profiting, right?。
Actually, in first century,。
the early Christians, most of them were poor people, right?。
They lack of any resources。
and means to thrive, right?。
They have to depend on God.。
So this church is not rich.。
They are, in fact, very poor.。
And the church is going through some very tough time, right?。
It's a very tough time.。
And John, the letter writer, says。
they are going through some tough times。
because of the Jews,。
Jewish slander, right?。
So what happened there, right?。
Now, when we read the Bible,。
we have to read the Bible in its own context, right?。
In the ancient context,。
the term, the Jews, or Jewish people,。
so often not an anti-Semitic statement, right?。
So John is saying Jews or Jewish are slandering。
against the churches, against the church in Smyrna.。
It's not an anti-Semitic statement。
because the early Christians, ethnicity-wise,。
they were Jewish Christians, right?。
They were themselves Jews, right?。
How could they be anti-Semitic, right?。
But in the entire New Testament,。
when it mentions the Jews,。
and they are doing something to persecute the early church,。
the Jews represent the unconverted Jewish people,。
especially the authorities, the leaders of the synagogue.。
They would turn Christians。
to the Roman authorities for persecution.。
Remember, Jesus was turned in。
by the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem, right?。
The early Christians, as told in the book of Acts,。
were persecuted by the Jewish people, right?。
The Jewish authorities in Jerusalem.。
And they collaborate with the Romans。
and try to stumble down the church,。
try to stop the church from spreading out, right?。
So the early church had that experience,。
and until the day of John,。
until the day of the book of Revelation,。
they were still under the pressure。
from the Jewish authorities of the city.。
So we can imagine in the city of Smyrna,。
there were some Jewish leaders,。
and they don't believe Jesus as Christ, as the Messiah,。
and they bad-mouthed them, and they slandered the Christians,。
and sometimes they turned the leaders,。
the church leaders, to the Roman authorities。
and trying to persecute the church.。
So this small church is going through。
some very, very tough experience.。
But Jesus says in this letter,。
he says, "Do not be afraid of what you're about to suffer."。
Jesus is not saying, "I'm gonna scoop you out,。
"and I'm gonna save you from suffering."。
Jesus said, "Do not be afraid what you're about to suffer.。
"I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison。
"to test you, and you will suffer persecution。
"for 10 days.。
"But be faithful, even to the point of death,。
"and I'll give you the crown of life."。
You know, the main job description of Satan。
is one thing, right?。
One thing.。
If you check Satan's resume,。
there's only one thing, only one bullet point.。
It's to make God's people suffer, right?。
That's his job, right?。
24/7.。
That's what Satan has been thinking about, right?。
That's what Satan is thinking about you.。
That's what Satan is thinking about our church.。
It's to persecute them, to stop them,。
and to close them down.。
That is the resume of Satan, right?。
It's a pretty easy job, right?。
24/7, the devil is trying to just destroy your faith,。
just to lead you astray,。
from believing to unbelieving,。
from unbelieving to unbelieving remains unbelief.。
And that is Satan's job description, only job description.。
And this letter is trying to encourage。
the small church in Smyrna to withstand the pressure,。
to withstand suffering.。
And it says there's a short period of time of testing.。
10 days, right?。
10 days.。
You know, if you search all the pages of the Bible,。
from Old Testament to New Testament,。
there's one place talking about persecution,。
talking about testing of faith,。
and it mentioned 10 days.。
There's only one passage, and that's Daniel chapter one.。
Remember that story?。
Daniel was being captured,。
and he was exiled in the Babylonian court,。
and he was forced to be assimilated。
to the Babylonian culture.。
And Daniel and his three friends were saying,。
"Hey, you know, give us 10 days.。
"I'm not gonna partake in the royal feast.。
"You know, you have to test us for 10 days, right?。
"And you will know after 10 days,。
"we will do well and even better than all the other pagans."。
And as a result, you know, the consequence was that。
Daniel, trusting God, and after 10 days,。
you know, the court sees Daniel and his three friends,。
they're actually more healthy, right?。
They are better than other people.。
Now, of course, that passage is not。
a modern copycat dietary law, right?。
It's not for us to copy the same thing that they did.。
But it shows us, you know, God is trustworthy, right?。
It shows us God is trustworthy,。
and Daniel and his friends were vindicated.。
They're proven to be innocent, proven to be holy,。
and set apart by God himself.。
So they finally experienced vindication.。
And that's what Jesus is saying to the church in Smyrna.。
Yes, there's persecution.。
There will be 10 days of testing,。
but God will vindicate you.。
God will protect you.。
And at the end, you will win。
because you are standing on the side of God.。
You're standing on God's side.。
Persecution.。
You know, by the way, persecution is still a reality today.。
Still a reality today.。
Of course, we're sitting here.。
We can come in, lazy.。
You know, we can be lazy.。
In America, there's not so much about persecution, right?。
I mean, nobody go out of the church or come in the church。
and fearful of the neighbors killing him, right?。
Or slandering you, right?。
There may be some pressure.。
There may be some temptation.。
And that is by and large our experience。
in America as Christians.。
However, persecution is still very much going on today。
in other parts of the world,。
especially those countries or areas。
that has no access to the gospel。
or the authority or the government。
is against the Christian faith.。
Like many places in China, right?。
It's very much going on, persecution.。
Many places in Muslim countries,。
persecution is a real thing.。
And let me read you some numbers, some statistics,。
so that we know what Jesus is talking about here。
is not just 2,000 years ago.。
It's very much a reality today.。
So some numbers here.。
There were, according to open doors。
and Gordon Cornwell resource,。
almost 400 Christians are killed, persecuted,。
for their faith every month.。
If you figure out numbers, try to calculate the number,。
there were 13 Christians who died for their faith every day.。
Even now on average, 13 Christians every day.。
And then 214 churches and Christian properties。
are destroyed every month around the world,。
according to open doors,。
especially in places hostile to the gospel.。
200 some churches are being destroyed, you know,。
intentionally because they hate Christ, right?。
And these churches suffer damages.。
Now, the last number, listen up.。
40 to 80 million Christians have been martyred。
in the course of 2,000 years church history.。
40 to 80 million Christians have been martyred.。
They die for their faith, being persecuted。
in the course of church history.。
Church history has 2,000 years old, right?。
And over half of them were martyred in the 20th century.。
The last century, the last century.。
Half of them, that means at least 20 million Christians。
were persecuted and martyred in 20th century,。
in the last century.。
So it's very much a reality, right, today.。
Even though we don't see it, you know,。
kind of we don't see it in our sight, our mind,。
but it's a reality.。
So what the church in Samaria is going through。
is actually what many Christians in other parts of the world。
are going through today.。
And Satan will continue to persecute Christians.。
Satan will not get tired, okay?。
You go to sleep at 10 o'clock.。
You go to sleep at 11 p.m., right?。
And then you wake up 8 o'clock, 9 o'clock, 10 o'clock, right?。
You have to rest, right?。
But Satan, Satan does not need rest, right?。
Right?。
And you know, in Jesus' encounters with Satan,。
with the devil, actually the devil studied the Bible.。
Remember the temptations Jesus had。
in the 40 day of wilderness?。
Satan actually quote from one of the Psalms, right?。
Psalm 91, right?。
Do you know what Psalm 91 is?。
We don't know because we don't study.。
Satan's more diligent, knowing the word of God,。
but for the purpose of tempting,。
for the purpose of persecuting Christians.。
So if they misinterpret, they can be led astray, right?。
So Satan will continue to persecute Christians。
with suffering, and by and large for us, it's temptation.。
Right?。
There are tons of temptations in our lives, in your life.。
Right?。
How long you been a Christian?。
Probably from some months and probably some many years,。
right?。
And if you check your experience,。
there are many, many temptations.。
There are many, many temptations。
that could have destroyed your faith, right?。
Criticism.。
Some people will criticize you, right?。
Probably unbelieving parents。
or unbelieving family members will criticize you。
for believing Jesus, right?。
And then you experience discouragements, right?。
From time to time, you feel discouraged, right?。
Now, I've been serving in church for 25 years, right?。
And I tell you, many, many experiences of discouragement.。
Either people give me the discouragement。
or I myself perpetuate that kind of discouragement, right?。
Don't you feel that way sometimes, right?。
You feel discouraged, right?。
Your friends left the faith, right?。
Your friends criticize you or friends, you know,。
go cold shoulder on you, you know, in terms of faith.。
And there are discouragement, there was criticism,。
there was negative experience that we all share.。
And that is part of the real temptations.。
And Satan's using those occasions,。
using those temptations to lead you astray, you know,。
to beat you down so that you will not be able。
to follow Christ, right?。
You will not be able to serve Christ, you know,。
to magnify your shortcomings, right?。
Magnify your guilt, magnify your weaknesses。
so that you feel like you don't deserve。
to be called a disciple of Christ, right?。
And that is trying to lead you astray from grace, right?。
Because we can always fall back on grace, right?。
Our faith started with grace and ended with sheer grace.。
It's not about our work, but Satan can use those occasions。
to destroy your faith, to slow down your Christian growth.。
I think this letter is a very relevant letter.。
Because it reminds us as Christians, you know,。
we will go through some suffering, right?。
You know what is the most often used image。
to describe Christian walk?。
What's the most often used, frequently used image。
in the New Testament to describe Christian life?。
What is it?。
Let me tell you.。
Battle.。
It's a warfare, right?。
It's a spiritual battle.。
That's one image, right?。
Farming is another image, right?。
Have you ever been a farmer?。
It's tough work, right?。
Running, you know, running.。
Track and field, you know, it's a competition.。
No, these images call for discipline,。
call for willingness to suffer, right?。
Willingness to withstand pressure.。
And that is the call of Christians.。
When Jesus called you to follow him,。
what he really meant was what he meant。
when he called the first disciples.。
He said to Peter, Andrew, John, and those guys,。
Jesus said, "Follow me."。
Jesus actually meant just follow me,。
just walking after me, right?。
You know, walking from town to town, from city to city,。
and you have no place to stay.。
There was no Airbnb for you.。
There's no hotel for you, right?。
You gotta, you know, withstand the pressure, right?。
To have the discipline to follow him literally.。
And Jesus is calling you today to do the same thing, right?。
It's a battle.。
It's a spiritual warfare, and we need to get ready for that.。
And I'll tell you how to get ready for that, all right?。
From this level.。
And, but I wanna give you an illustration.。
You know, not too long ago, someone introduced me。
the term strawberry generation.。
Strawberry generation.。
Have you ever heard of that?。
It's actually a term coined by an Indonesian sociologist.。
You know, it's a professor in Indonesia.。
And that professor actually wrote a book on this topic,。
and the title of the book is "Strawberry Generation."。
And it's a very popular term now,。
or used to be a very popular term in Taiwan.。
Now, this term, this label, strawberry generation,。
describes people born after 1990.。
Anyone here?。
1990.。
I'm sure you're not, okay?。
I'm sure you're not.。
But let me tell you what strawberry generation is.。
Now, strawberry generation means,。
you know, this image means, you know,。
those people who are born after '90s,。
strawberries look nice and colorful, right?。
And you know, you see creativity,。
you see freshness, right?。
And these are the people, so-called Gen Z, right?。
Strawberry generation.。
Look very nice and colorful,。
but strawberries bruise easily, right?。
You press it, and then you bruise it.。
And the term actually describes a new generation。
that cannot withstand social pressure,。
not willing to work hard,。
or less resistant to challenges in life.。
Perhaps, you know, sociologists will say,。
perhaps, you know, this generation。
grew up in an overly protective environment, right?。
Probably fostered by parents, right?。
You heard of helicopter parents, right?。
I was kind of one of them, right?。
When my girl was trying to learn to walk, right?。
And she stumbled, right?。
I was like, "Oh my God."。
Right?。
"Oh my God, I don't want to get hurt," right?。
And, you know, having too much too soon,。
growing up in a very comfortable environment,。
just like greenhouse, right?。
Strawberries are grown in protected environment, right?。
Protected greenhouse.。
Spoiled, right?。
And the sociologists are suggesting。
we have a whole new generation who are like strawberries,。
right?。
So I wonder, are there strawberry Christians?。
Are there a generation of strawberry Christians?。
You know, we look nice, you know?。
We look kind of creative, right?。
We have many ideas, and we are fresh.。
But, you know, are we like strawberry。
when we are being pushed or pressured,。
and we get bruised too easily, right?。
This letter reminds us what it means to be Christian.。
The church in Smyrna, they set up a great example.。
They were always under the pressure.。
They were always under the attack of Satan, right?。
But Christ encourages them.。
To withstand suffering, right?。
So your question is, how to handle suffering?。
How should we do it, right?。
How should we handle pressure?。
Especially pressure related to our faith, right?。
Let me give you some pointers.。
First, you need to understand, as this letter tells us,。
understand suffering is a test.。
It's a test of your character.。
It's a test of your faith, right?。
Now, remember, when you go through a test,。
of course, it's painful.。
It's not comfortable.。
But remember, only people who are of worth。
deserve testing, right?。
Only you are equipped.。
You have been growing up.。
That's why God allows testing in your life.。
Because God sees you as someone of worth.。
Wanna test you, wanna grow you, even better, right?。
That's one pointer.。
The second one is to understand what faith really is.。
Question of faith, following Jesus.。
What does it mean, right?。
So often we misunderstood.。
We think believing Jesus is simply。
just get a ticket to heaven, right?。
Get a passport to heaven.。
Get a ticket to heaven so I can wait in the gate, right?。
I can be passive, I don't have to do anything.。
And I just wait, someday I'll fly to heaven。
or something like that.。
No, that is not biblical faith.。
God does not save us from suffering.。
But God will save us through suffering.。
You see the difference?。
You see the difference?。
God does not necessarily save us from suffering.。
Of course we wanna pray that God will save us from suffering.。
We don't have to suffer.。
But so often God does not do that.。
But God, in his grace, in his faithfulness,。
God is telling you he will save you through suffering, right?。
So that you can withstand suffering.。
In his grace, you can depend on him.。
Depend on his grace and his strength.。
The second part, understand what faith is all about.。
The third point I wanna suggest to you。
is to learn spiritual disciplines.。
Learn spiritual disciplines, right?。
Reading the Bible, right?。
Reading the Bible, praying every day, you know?。
To have the discipline to go to worship, right?。
To do something, what does it mean, spiritual discipline?。
To do something that is against our。
most comfortable desire, right?。
If we seek for comfort, of course we will not read the Bible.。
We will not seek God, right?。
We will seek sin.。
We will seek our own self.。
We will listen to our own self.。
But spiritual discipline, we're against our own nature。
and build on the new nature, right?。
The more you practice spiritual disciplines,。
you know, regular prayer, regular Bible study,。
regular getting together with other people,。
other people of God, other Christians,。
to get encouragement and pray for other people,。
these kind of spiritual disciplines will build up your life。
and will help you withstand pressures.。
Point number three.。
Number four, learn from great examples.。
People who have finished their course of faith,。
you know, beautifully and finish it well.。
Learn from them, right?。
Last week we had a memorial service。
and we said goodbye or see you later。
to one of the brothers,。
one of the actual retired pastor in our midst.。
And he passed away when he was 96 years old, 96 years old.。
And he has been serving God for decades。
and he has been faithful.。
You know, by telling stories of his past experience,。
he has suffered quite a bit.。
He had different challenges in his life,。
serving God, following Jesus, right?。
But he finished it well, you know.。
We praise God for his life, right?。
And we can learn from him.。
We can learn from great examples of faith, right?。
And there are many great examples around us.。
And there are many great examples in the Bible.。
We can learn from them.。
That's point number four.。
Number five, focus on eternal reward.。
Someday we will be rewarded.。
And God is saying to the church in Myrna。
and to our church, to you,。
he who has an ear,。
let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.。
He who overcomes, he who endures,。
will not be hurt at all.。
By the second death.。
By the second death.。
And he will have the crown of life, right?。
The crown of life.。
That is the desire for Christ when he sees you.。
Ask questions, ask follow of Jesus Christ.。
Look forward to the eternal reward.。
The crown of life and then will not be hurt by second death.。
What is that?。
First death is the physical death, right?。
The separation of the physical body and our soul or spirit.。
The second death is the final judgment.。
That is unfold in the book of Revelation,。
the later chapters.。
That is the second death.。
But Jesus has conquered death.。
And second death, final judgment,。
has no power over you, has no authority over you.。
So you can withstand because you have this hope。
in the future.。
And that hope is secured by Jesus Christ.。
Let me tell you this, there's a saying that says,。
tough times don't last, but tough people do.。
Right, heard of that?。
Tough times don't last, but tough people do.。
But I would say of this passage,。
tough times don't last, but God's people do.。
God's people last forever, eternally.。
Because we are secure in Christ.。
Yes, we can go through some tough times,。
but they don't last because we have this eternal hope.。
Right?。
Let me remind you and let me encourage you today.。
Let me pray and we come before God and say,。
God, we need your strength, we need your grace,。
and we know that you are a rock and we can depend upon you.。
We can draw strength from you.。
We can gain strength from you.。
We can go on and follow Jesus, right?。
Let's pray.。
Father, we just come before you.。
We know that we are weak and we are easily defeated.。
Whenever we focus on our old self, our own brokenness,。
our own shortcomings, our own weaknesses,。
yes, we will be broken and we'll fall into temptation。
because Satan will not get tired of tempting us。
and damaging our faith.。
But we know that you are our rock.。
You are the God who we can trust, the God who is our rock.。
And I just pray that with all the pressures that we have。
when we follow you, with all the challenges。
that we have to go through, that our faith will be tested.。
Our faith will be polished and our character,。
our life, our Christian life will be just like a lampstand。
to witness to your faithfulness.。
And I pray that for your church, you will protect us。
and you will bring us through suffering.。
And we will know that you are always trustworthy.。
Thank you for being our faithful and loving God.。
Thank you for loving us so much unconditionally.。
And may your love and your grace continue to carry us through。
so that we give you glory in Christ and pray.。
Well, please stay for a time of fellowship。
and then we'll start our Bible study, right?。
Okay, all right?。
No Satan is going to do Bible study,。
but we will do Bible study, all right?。
All right, God bless you.。
And stay in the cafe and we'll call you。
when it's time for our fellowship, all right?。
God bless.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
