- Thank you so much for your appreciation。
and I really appreciate and really encourage us as staff。
to continue to be faithful。
and we'll put your gifts in good use, all right?。
We could put your gifts in good use.。
Today, we're going to continue our series on way of wisdom.。
How do we live a life of wisdom?。
And the Bible has so much to say about it.。
And remember this passage that I talk about last week。
and it's from chapter 24 of Proverbs.。
And here, the wise teacher is going through。
some observation and he went past the field。
of the lazy people, sluggard,。
and he saw that everything is in ruin。
and he's trying to apply from his observation of the nature。
and apply it to his spiritual life, his personal life.。
So again, in the book of Proverbs,。
it's not simply about natural observation.。
It's about observing and then get some spiritual insight。
so that your life can be built up.。
And one has to work against and fight against。
the chaos in our lives.。
You know, in the past week, have you thought the chaos。
or the chaos overwhelm you?。
You know, there are tons of chaos around us。
and if we don't put energy to work against it。
and fight against it, it will be a field of sluggard。
and it will be in ruin.。
And your spiritual life, your personal life,。
your marriage, your family, your work, your career,。
everything will be in ruin.。
And one has to do that and that is what the wisdom literature。
or the book of Proverbs has to say to us.。
It's bottom up, observe how life works.。
Observe the moral order, the spiritual order。
of God's universe and to observe that。
so that you can get spiritual insight from it.。
Now, sometimes we have to understand how to read Proverbs.。
So I really wanna encourage you to read Proverbs.。
And here I give you a simple structure。
of the book of Proverbs.。
And in this book, there are 31 chapters.。
And if you zoom out a little bit,。
you find that there's a whole structure of the book.。
And you begin with the first nine chapters,。
which is the introduction.。
It's a prolonged introduction.。
It's an invitation to walk in wisdom.。
And you get the sense that the father or the mother。
is telling the son to walk in wisdom,。
to invite him to be wise, to learn the way of wisdom,。
encouraging him and urging the son to choose wisdom。
and reject folly of the world.。
To choose God, reject the false gods in the world.。
And then you come to a long collections。
of individual sayings from chapter 10 to 30.。
And if you read those chapters, have you tried it?。
If you try to read one verse after another,。
it's sequentially, you try to understand it,。
you can't find a really tight flow of argument.。
Because it is not designed to be like that.。
It's a collection of a lot of different wise sayings。
and put them together.。
It's like an anthology.。
You know what an anthology is?。
It's a collection of essays.。
It's a collection of articles in a book.。
So there's not necessarily a logical flow from it.。
So you can read chapter 10 to 30。
the same way you read the Book of Romans.。
You know, the Book of Romans, we are doing bio study on it。
and we are still on the early chapters of the Book of Romans。
and you have to read it from verse one, verse two, verse three。
because Paul is trying to build an argument there。
and try to explain some of the themes。
and is trying to carry you through。
with some sort of sequential, you know, logical flow.。
But in the Book of Proverbs, it's not like that.。
So in order to understand chapter 10 to 30,。
the best way, I think, is to read them topically.。
Is to read through it and then you try to collect。
some of the things that is related。
to a certain kind of topic.。
For example, money.。
Wealth and money.。
The Proverb has a lot to say about money, about wealth.。
So you read through those chapters。
and try to collect those things.。
Just like you go to Whole Foods,。
you want to buy something and then you go through。
different aisles and then you pick what you want.。
It's kind of like that because, you know,。
wisdom is kind of like that.。
Wisdom is observing and collecting。
and try to organize things.。
So you read through these chapters 10 to 30。
with a certain kind of topic in your mind,。
like family life, work and career,。
speech, how we speak and when to speak,。
wisdom of speaking.。
You categorize them under different topics,。
under different headings, and then you try to understand。
what the wise is trying to tell you.。
And today, I want to demonstrate this topical reading.。
And we're going to understand or study the theme of pride。
and humility.。
Pride and humility.。
What is that?。
So when you think of humility or pride,。
what do you think of?。
How do you define it?。
How do you describe humility?。
How do you describe pride?。
And from my understanding, we'll read through。
some of the Proverbs that has to do with this topic.。
And I organize it into two related headings.。
First heading is humility leads to more wisdom.。
That's what humility will do to you.。
The second topic is humility will lead to more life,。
life in God, more substantial growth in your life.。
So in these two headings, I want to study with you。
what humility, what pride is.。
Now, first of all, what humility is not.。
What is not humility?。
What is not?。
Now, humility is not humiliation.。
Humility and humiliation are totally different things.。
All right, the difference is very, very, very important.。
Because especially for some of us who grow up。
in a shame-based culture, a shame-driven culture,。
you know, the Asian culture, is very much shame-based.。
And humiliation sometimes is messed up with,。
misunderstood to be humility.。
Humiliation or self-abasement, it's to shame yourself。
into thinking that you are worthless.。
You know, less worth than other people.。
Have less value than other people.。
And it's very intriguing because at times,。
and this is how I experience it,。
is that we think that we don't measure up。
and we have to compare ourselves to others.。
And in doing so, we try to prove that we are better.。
We try to assert our own value。
by comparing ourselves to others.。
But this is a whole complex of pride and, you know,。
humiliation, because when you compare yourself。
with other people, so often the result is that,。
okay, maybe I still have something that you do not have.。
I still get something that you don't.。
And it's very easy to fall into another trap for pride.。
I compare myself with you, against you,。
and I find that, okay, maybe you are better,。
but maybe there's some way I'm better than you,。
even though there's some other things。
that you are better than me.。
Now, that is not humility.。
Humility in the Bible says that, yes, I'm broken,。
I am sinful, but God accepts me unconditionally in Christ.。
You see, this will free you up from comparison.。
This will free you up from being arrogant, from pride,。
because humility is seeing yourself as low,。
humble, in front of God.。
No one can measure up to God's standard.。
So we come before God and we know, okay,。
we are sinful, we are sinful, and we are humble.。
However, we are totally accepted unconditionally in Christ.。
And that's the ground we stand on.。
That is humility in the Bible.。
Look with me, chapter 15.。
"Whoever ignores instruction despises himself,。
but he who listens to reproof gains intelligence," wisdom.。
33, "The fear of the Lord is instruction in wisdom,。
and humility comes before honor."。
All right, let's begin with the last verse here,。
the second verse, verse 33.。
What is humility here?。
Look the parallel here.。
You know, the wise saying always says,。
two short sentences put together.。
Look the parallel between two sentences in verse 33.。
"Fear of the Lord is parallel with humility.。
Fear of the Lord, as I explained briefly last time,。
or other occasions, fear of the Lord means。
a proper relationship with God,。
a proper relationship with the Creator.。
That is the fear of the Lord.。
That's why I fear God, I worship God,。
because He is my Creator, He is my God."。
Right?。
So proper relationship with God is fear of the Lord.。
And that is parallel, or sort of equal to humility.。
To understand my relationship with God.。
You see, this is the gospel of Jesus Christ.。
This is the gospel.。
I'm totally, 100% accepted by Christ,。
and that is sheer grace of God.。
It's not because of my works.。
It's not because I'm better.。
It's not my goodness.。
I'm totally accepted because what Christ has done for me.。
Right?。
The righteousness of Christ.。
I'm solidly grounded in the love of Christ.。
And that is my security.。
My security does not come from。
because I'm better than my co-worker,。
or my co-worker is worse than me.。
My security does not come from,。
okay, I'm better than my friends,。
or better than other people, probably in the church,。
I'm better than them, so I feel better.。
That is a false sense of identity.。
That is idolatry.。
But when you are properly related to Christ,。
you receive grace unconditionally,。
and you receive the gospel,。
that's where your identity and your security come from.。
You see what I'm saying?。
So we don't have to compare with other people,。
because I have a solid ground to stand on.。
That is the love of Christ, the grace of Christ.。
In my college year,。
I remember a good pastor who taught this.。
He shared one of his experience,。
and this pastor, I just love him.。
He's so wise.。
And this pastor told us,。
when he was much younger, when he was younger,。
and he joined the church,。
and he wanted to join the church choir.。
So there he was, and he joined the church choir,。
and he had rehearsal,。
and he served in the choir for a few times.。
And then one day, after the choir performance,。
or after the service,。
the choir director pulled him aside,。
gently and firmly said to him,。
and asked him, "Dear brother,。
"do you really think that God calls you to be in the choir,。
"because you're tone deaf?"。
And for the few times he was trying to join the choir,。
because he liked to sing.。
He likes to sing.。
He likes to sing hymns and praises to God.。
So he wants to join the choir, or the worship team.。
And then it just dawned on him that he was tone deaf.。
He just cannot sing in tune.。
And he messed up other people in the choir.。
And after this realization,。
he understand he's not musically gifted.。
He's not musically gifted.。
Yes, he can sing praises to God,。
you know, in the congregation,。
probably it will annoy some of the people beside him,。
but he's not musically gifted.。
And that's how he come to a conclusion.。
And he shared with us his non-participation。
is helpful for the ministry.。
And he's not gonna be jealous and envious of other people.。
Other people who are musically gifted,。
they can share the stage.。
They can lead other people to worship,。
but he's not gifted.。
But he was totally secure.。
He doesn't feel bad.。
He doesn't feel sad.。
That's how God created me.。
That's how God gifted me.。
And that's how I use my gifts.。
And he is very gifted in teaching.。
Not in music, not in worship,。
but he is very gifted in teaching.。
And that's why he's trying to polish his craft。
and to be a good teacher.。
And he was a good teacher and he is a good teacher.。
And that's what humility does to you.。
You listen to advice.。
You listen to those who teaches you.。
And he who listens to reproof gains wisdom,。
gains intelligence.。
Now, what is humility?。
I like what C.S. Lewis says about humility.。
C.S. Lewis is a very famous, well-known theologian。
or apologist in the 20th century.。
Oh, he passed away a long time,。
but he wrote a lot of things。
and people are still studying the works of C.S. Lewis.。
In fact, there was a institute of C.S. Lewis。
and people trying to understand what he wrote.。
He wrote so much.。
And C.S. Lewis says about humility.。
He says, "Humility is not thinking less of you,。
"but thinking of yourself less."。
Amen?。
Humility is not humiliation.。
It's not thinking less of yourself,。
but thinking yourself a little bit less.。
Because if you're totally grounded in the grace of God。
and the love of God, you're free.。
You're free to compare yourself。
and contrast yourself with others.。
And that, as I explained, will lead to humiliation。
or a kind of subtle pride.。
Humiliation in the sense that I don't measure up。
and I'm jealous, I'm envious of other people.。
They have other gifts and I don't have.。
And so you're kind of in this loop of humiliation.。
And the other result is pride,。
is seeing at least I'm better than you.。
No, there's a very, very intriguing complex to it.。
But humility is not thinking less of yourself,。
but thinking of yourself less.。
And the book of Proverbs has so much to say。
about pride and humility.。
Humility is the way of wisdom.。
Another verse in 1310.。
It says, "Pride only breeds quarrels."。
But wisdom is found in those who take advice.。
You know, have you ever argued with someone?。
Have argument with the other people?。
Either your spouse or your child or a friend。
or whoever that is, or even your pastor.。
You see, in the midst of argument,。
so often there is pride, right?。
I want to prove that I'm right and you are wrong.。
You know, in premarital counseling,。
I always tell the couples, I always tell couples,。
in marriage, marriage is only game in town。
that you have the result of,。
you don't have the result of win-lose.。
You always have both of you lose。
or both of you win.。
There's no win and being lost in marriage.。
Because if you lay down yourself,。
if you grounded yourself in the love of Christ,。
in the grace of God, there's no pride.。
If there's no pride, there's no argument.。
You listen to one another.。
You learn from one another.。
See, wisdom is found in those who take advice,。
who listen to advice.。
Last night, we have a small gathering。
with some of the husbands in the church.。
And this is kind of a once in a while,。
once in probably nine months or 10 months,。
we get together for a simple dinner.。
So I went there and to my surprise,。
we had so much to talk about.。
So I show up in the restaurant at 7 p.m., 7 at night.。
Went to Phoenix, 7 o'clock.。
And I was planning to have a dinner for two hours,。
for two hour max, right?。
What do men talk about?。
Men have nothing to talk about.。
But when we sit down and then we warm up。
and then we go into talk about life。
and talk about family in general,。
to my surprise, we had a five hours dinner.。
Five hours dinner.。
I got home after 11.。
Yeah, but I really enjoyed the community.。
I really enjoyed the group, you know,。
try to open up ourselves and see,。
hey, you know, can we listen to one another。
and learn from one another?。
Now, I want to tell you,。
this kind of community does not come easily.。
Does not come naturally.。
For us, for many of us, we have to commit。
in order to cultivate that kind of relationship.。
We have to open up and we have to make commitment。
to spend time with one another.。
Otherwise it won't happen, right?。
You go to church sometimes,。
you find the conversation is not deep.。
And you get tired, you don't want to have fellowship.。
You know why?。
It's not because people are shallow.。
All of us are yearning for meaningful conversation.。
However, in order to do that,。
there is investment.。
We have to spend time and commitment。
to stick to one another in order to cultivate。
that kind of family, that kind of community.。
So with the men, we talked so much about,。
you know, how to lead the family,。
how to relate to our kids,。
how to deal with the local politics,。
you know, election is coming,。
and what are we concerned about,。
and why do we concern about this or that with our kids?。
And it was a very, very open。
and just great time together sharing。
and communication with one another,。
you know, over a glass of wine.。
And that is wisdom, right?。
The community is the wisdom.。
So here we come to the second heading,。
which is humility leads to life.。
Humility will give you more life.。
If you gain wisdom and then you get life。
and then you get better life,。
a godly life, and then it will return back to you。
and will give you more humility.。
And you will be humble before God and you learn more。
and then you get more wisdom.。
And this is a kind of a circularity.。
Circularity in terms of, you know,。
you give and then it will give back to you.。
1618, pride goes before destruction.。
Haunted spirit before a fall.。
Now, this is the observation of the wise teacher.。
He observed there was an order in your life,。
order in human life in general.。
This is the cosmic order.。
You think you're powerful, you're invincible.。
If you're prideful, you will fall.。
You will fall, inevitably.。
Because I'm preparing some of the messages。
for my trip to Toronto,。
I'm talking about the book of Daniel,。
especially the later chapters of Daniel.。
Those are really tough chapters.。
You have to do a lot of interpretation,。
do a lot of careful reading.。
And I was doing some research,。
because the later chapters of the book of Daniel。
is all about the rise and fall of human kingdoms.。
Rise and fall of human kings, like Assyrian kings。
and Babylonian kingdom and Persian kingdom。
and the Greek kingdom, the Greek empire.。
It's all about the rise and fall of human empire on earth.。
And only God's kingdom is eternal.。
And that's pretty much what the later books,。
or later chapters of the book of Daniel is all about.。
So I was doing some research on the rise and fall of kingdoms。
and it's kind of fun research.。
And now, of course, when we talk about。
the fall of any empire, any king,。
it's a whole complexity of factors go into it.。
How do you explain the fall of an empire?。
Either in recent history, like the Soviet Union,。
fell in 1991, if I'm not mistaken,。
recent history, or in ancient history, in biblical time.。
Now, how do you explain the fall of any empire?。
Of course, there are a lot of different factors go into it.。
You know, economic slowdown or political corruption。
or the fall of, the collapse of their social structure。
or social unrest or there's a food supply,。
you know, farm surplus, not enough.。
You know, those things.。
But the newest research I want to share with you,。
the newest research is actually climate change.。
Climate change.。
You never thought of it, right?。
Never thought of it because, you know, an empire fell。
because, of course, it's mismanagement。
by one of the bad king, right?。
The last king.。
And the newest research has to say。
there's one more factor that we have forgotten.。
It's climate change.。
For example, this one.。
How did the Assyrian Empire fall?。
Now, Assyrian Empire, as you tell from the Old Testament,。
is the most powerful kingdom,。
the first most powerful empire。
the ancient world has ever seen.。
Ancient first empire, Assyria,。
from the seventh century to down to,。
well, from the ninth century down to the seventh century,。
200 years, 200 some years of powerful empire.。
And they conquered land after land after land,。
conquered their whole world.。
And why did they fall?。
Now, the researchers are saying。
not only the social factors or political factors,。
but there's climate change.。
There's 125 years of magnet drought.。
125 years.。
Now, one year of drought, you know,。
you probably can, you know, go through it.。
Two years, you probably can go through it.。
10 years, probably you can go through it。
because you have enough surplus.。
But, you know, 125 years of mega drought,。
that happened in the last 100 years of the Assyrian Empire.。
That's why the empire fell.。
It collapsed.。
Now, that's very, very relevant for our day, of course,。
because it's climate change, right?。
You see all this extreme climate pattern in Florida,。
in some of the places, in the wildfire, hurricane,。
wipe out everything.。
Of course, it has so much to say about。
what the Bible has to teach us about creation care,。
about environment and all that, right?。
And many researchers are focusing。
on this kind of direction.。
You know why?。
Because not only because this is a relevant topic,。
it is because you cannot control it.。
You cannot control it.。
No matter how invincible you are,。
you just cannot control climate.。
Now, that's what pride is.。
To the empire, to the king,。
they always think that they are invincible.。
Pride means self-sufficiency.。
I'm all good.。
I don't need other power, right?。
I can stand on my own.。
I have my success, achievement, it's all mine.。
It's by my power.。
That's what pride is, self-sufficiency.。
There are factors that you cannot control.。
Even for empire, you just cannot control it.。
And that means you are not invincible.。
You better be humble.。
Last verse I wanna share with you is 22.4.。
Humility and the fear of the Lord。
bring wealth and honor and life.。
Humility will give you life,。
but pride will give you collapse.。
Think about some of the examples。
that you probably have some in mind.。
How personal life, how someone who is so successful,。
and he fell and collapsed.。
Moral collapse, spiritual collapse.。
Think about even religious institution.。
It can fall.。
If you think you're invincible,。
if you think you don't need to be accountable,。
what lesson we need to learn?。
Humility and the fear of the Lord,。
again, it's a parallel here,。
bring you wealth, honor, and life.。
You cannot be pride, prideful,。
and think that you've got everything under your belt.。
You see, the book is telling you。
you have to walk in the way of wisdom.。
You need to surround yourself with other people of God,。
other godly people.。
You cannot go through the spiritual journey by yourself.。
You have to have someone to help you,。
and that is humility.。
And this will give you wealth and honor and life.。
Now, I like the package here,。
wealth, honor, and life, especially the word honor.。
You know, in Hebrew, Hebrew is a very concrete language.。
It's very concrete language。
because you use a word picture all the time.。
And honor, this word, is kavod in Hebrew.。
And what does it mean?。
Kavod means something really heavy, weightlifting.。
Have you been to gym?。
Weightlifting, that is kavod.。
That is something heavy.。
Life has substance.。
If you have honor, you have substance.。
And humility will give you that.。
The fear of the Lord will give you that.。
So that's why we need to learn how to be humble.。
And remember, we have to ground ourselves。
in the sheer grace of God.。
And once we do that, we have security, true humility.。
So we can do what God has called us to do.。
Kelly has reminded us of the need for Bible study.。
Now, I want to challenge and I want to encourage you.。
Yes, we do need that.。
To study the word of God,。
to listen to other brothers and sisters,。
and to be led so that you can understand the word of God.。
We all need that, you know.。
If you think you know it all,。
I think among us here,。
I would say I'm the one know it all, right?。
But you know, every time I have Bible study。
with other people, other brothers and sisters,。
sometimes we go tangent, okay, fine.。
But you know, I always learn something.。
I always learn something.。
I'm not going to say, you know, you guys,。
you know, you don't know much about,。
you know, the scripture and all that.。
That would be pride.。
But every time I get together with other people。
and listen to their life。
and listen to how they read the word。
and what they get from the truth of God,。
you know, that will cultivate wisdom.。
And we all need this.。
And humility will give you reward.。
And the reward is eternal life,。
wealth, honor, and life.。
Let's all pray together.。
And ask Father to grant us true humility.。
Father, we come before you.。
You are the source of our life.。
You created us.。
You gifted us in so many different ways.。
And we want to praise you.。
We want to give you thanks because we are all different.。
We're all gifted in a wide diversity of way.。
And that is your will.。
And that is your goodwill.。
Thank you, Father, for calling all of us to be your people.。
Teach us the way of wisdom.。
Teach us the way of humility.。
Help us to learn.。
Learn about your word.。
Learn about what you're doing in our life.。
Help us to be grounded in your sufficient love.。
And God, you are the all-sufficient God.。
And we are not.。
We're not sufficient.。
That's why we need your word.。
We need your community.。
We need your love.。
Thank you for being our God.。
And call us and encourage us。
so that we'll walk humbly before you.。
Help us to look in our lives。
in the light of what Christ has done for us.。
So that we stand secure.。
We know that we are valuable in your sight.。
So valuable that your Son died on the cross to redeem us.。
Let our lives demonstrate your way,。
your way of wisdom.。
Help us, sisters and brothers in the church,。
we can learn from one another.。
Help us to cultivate that kind of spirit of learning,。
spirit of humility, to learn from one another,。
to learn how to fear you,。
so that we can walk in the way of godliness.。
Shape us and form us and transform us。
so that your word will be our guidance.。
Thank you for being our God, wisdom in Christ's name.。
We pray.。
Well, God bless you.。
And we have some refreshment out there.。
And again, I wanna thank you for all your support。
for our trip to Toronto.。
I'm leaving Chicago on Thursday.。
And we'll come back Monday night.。
And pray for us and pray for me。
as I speak to other churches.。
All right, I have six messages to give。
and pray for good well-being.。
All right?。
Okay, God bless you.。
And next week, Chi is preaching, all right?。
So please be here, please be here.。
I'm sure he will bring a word of wisdom to all of us.。
All right?。
