Hey family, here we are again enjoying this beautiful Chicago winter. You know。
for a while I thought we were gonna have a really mild winter this year and it。
seemed that way all the way up until about the middle of January and wasn't。
that cold, wasn't much snow, seemed like things weren't gonna be that bad and。
then winter just came roaring back and it has not let up since. It has been very。
cold. We've had a crazy amount of snow that we're all trying to dig out from。
under and we're shoveling snow every day and I know it's probably been a little。
bit tiring and challenging for all of us and I'm praying for you as you go。
through it, not just the challenges of shoveling snow and encountering those。
things but also just kind of the emotional challenges of being isolated。
and stuck in the house and not able to do things compounded with already being。
isolated because of the pandemic. I know sometimes in the winter it just seems。
dark and dreary and so I'm praying for you all as you encounter just all this。
winter weather that you'll stay encouraged and that you'll be able to。
enjoy it at least a little bit. And we're once again gonna be looking in Matthew。
today at the Sermon on the Mount. Today we're looking at Matthew chapter 7 so I。
just want to start off by commending you and encouraging you to give yourself a。
little round of applause or later on today make yourself a little trophy。
something like that because you've come a long way. The Sermon on the Mount is。
three chapters in the book of Matthew, Matthew 5, 6, and 7. It's the longest。
continuous sermon that's recorded in the Gospels, the longest continuous sermon of。
Jesus. There's a lot of content there and we've been going slowly through it。
taking it a verse or two at a time and so I know it's taken us a while to get。
through it. So I commend you for sticking with me, I commend you for your patience。
and perseverance and Matthew 7 is the last chapter we're starting in this week。
so there's a lot at the end of the tunnel, we're getting close to the end。
but Matthew chapter 7 is full of a lot of really good truth for us. I want us to。
really dig into this chapter and enjoy learning what God has for us and I know。
for me studying through the Sermon on the Mount it's it's really kind of life。
changing. There's so much deep and powerful truth in it and it's just been。
so transformative and such a blessing for me. I pray it's been the same for you。
and this Matthew chapter 7 is no different. In Matthew chapter 7 the first。
section of this passage Jesus is really talking about judging others and so。
that's what we're going to be talking about today, judging others and this is a。
really important topic and it's really important in our culture and so we're。
going to take our time and look at it over the next few weeks, go through it。
kind of slowly and try to really discover the truth that God has for us。
on this topic and really get a healthy understanding of what Jesus is saying in。
these verses. Today we're just going to look at Matthew chapter 7 verse 1 and。
verse 2 so let's read these together. Jesus says, "Judge not that you be not。
judged for with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged and with。
the measure you use it will be measured to you." Now these verses are very well。
known Bible verses. Matthew 7 1 is often said to be one of the most popular Bible。
verses in the entire Bible. A lot of people know this verse and sometimes。
people say it's the most popular verse of people who are not Christians, people。
who are not a part of the family of God because they love to quote it to say, "Hey。
don't judge, you can't judge, Jesus said don't judge lest you be judged." So you。
may have heard this verse before, maybe you've heard it as someone has said it。
to you or maybe you've heard someone on TV say it or something like that. It's a。
verse that people say a lot but it's also misunderstood in a lot of ways and。
it's difficult to interpret. And what I believe and what I want us to examine。
today is that Jesus here is not saying that we should not judge at all but he's。
saying that we should exercise right judgment when we judge and what he's。
really calling out is having a judgmental attitude. He does not want us。
to have a judgmental attitude and what I think what most people think of when。
they say judging is really a judgmental attitude. Obviously a lot of people in。
our culture have a very negative perception of judgment and of judging。
and so a lot of people say, "Well you can't judge others." But I think a lot of。
times what people are talking about is actually a judgmental attitude that is。
proud or that is hypocritical or that is self-righteous and those are definitely。
things that Jesus wants us to avoid and we're going to talk about that over the。
next few weeks. But Jesus is not saying that we shouldn't judge or that we。
shouldn't make judgments or that we shouldn't exercise discernment. I really。
don't think Jesus is saying that in this verse. And if you just have such a。
negative connotation with with the idea of judgment that it's hard for you to say。
the word or think about it judging something or some circumstance, then you。
can just use the word discernment. Discernment is a biblical word and I。
think it's a really good word for us to think about. Discernment refers to being。
able to see or recognize or distinguish or apprehend things and so discernment。
is a synonym of judging and it's really an important quality for us。
Christians to have and to be able to exercise. So if you're uncomfortable with。
the concept of judging then you can talk about discernment. I'm going to use。
those two terms almost interchangeably as we discuss this. And I think to start。
it's helpful to think about what judgment is. We can say, "Well judgment is。
when you judge something, when you make a decision about something."。
And that's true, but I think on a deeper level it helps us to understand that。
judgment is ultimately comparison to a standard. It's when we compare something。
to a standard and say, "Does this line up with the standard? Is this right。
according to the standard?" And for Christians, for followers of Jesus, for。
the subjects of the kingdom that we've talked about in the Sermon on the Mount,。
that standard ultimately comes from God. It's God's truth. For people who are not。
followers of Jesus, that standard could be a lot of different things. It could be。
their own feelings, it could be what someone else has told them, it could be。
all types of different things. It could be cultural values. And for believers and。
people in the church, a lot of times that's true too. Instead of sticking to。
the standard of God's truth, we start to hold on to a lot of different cultural。
values or our own feelings or what someone else has taught us. And that's。
not always healthy. A lot of times that can lead to really unhealthy attitudes。
and unhealthy judgments. And that can lead to that judgmental attitude that we。
want to avoid and that Jesus is calling us to avoid in this passage. So we want。
to remind ourselves and to always be mindful of the fact that when we are。
thinking about discerning something or judging something, we're talking。
about comparing it to God's truth and to God's standard. And remember that God's。
judgment is always rooted in God's justice. God has a standard of justice。
that is above and beyond ours and God's justice transcends our idea of justice.。
And we need to understand that. That God's judgment is always rooted in God's。
standard of justice, not ours. And we also need to understand that God's justice is。
rooted in His love. And so even when God exercises judgment, when He compares。
something to a standard, when He asks us to compare ourselves to a standard,。
that's always rooted in love for us. God does not do that to punish us. God does。
not do that to expose our weakness or our failing. God does that because He。
loves us and He wants to grow us and strengthen us and transform us into。
something more beautiful than what we have been in the past. God's judgment and。
justice are always rooted in His love. Now you might look at this verse on the。
face of it and say, "Hey, judge not that you be not judged." I don't see anything。
in there about having a judgmental attitude. So why am I saying that Jesus。
is calling out having a judgmental attitude, not just calling out exercising。
judgment in this passage? I want to remind you of how we interpret passages。
in the Bible. We talked about this with some of the other passages in the。
Sermon on the Mount that are a little bit more difficult to interpret. There's。
a lot of passages in the Bible we may look at and say, "I don't fully。
understand it," or "it seems confusing," or "is it saying this because it seems like。
that doesn't agree with other parts of the Bible?" And so there's a lot of。
principles of biblical interpretation. We went through some of those when we。
talked about some of those other passages, so we're not going to go。
through all of them again today. But I'm just going to point to a couple that we。
can really see in this passage. And that is it's always important to examine。
verses in their context, in the context of the verses around them. And that's。
really helpful to look at the passage and see what the passage is saying. And。
it's also helpful to examine verses in light of other scripture and other。
verses and passages throughout scripture and compare and say, "Okay,。
did these agree?" And that helps us to interpret a verse that may seem unusual。
to us when we first see it. And this is one of those verses. If we just look at。
Matthew 7, we say, "Judge not that you be not judged." Jesus is clearly。
saying that we should never exercise judgment. But when we look at the context。
of this passage, this section in Matthew 7, Jesus is clearly talking about judging。
others and is clearly not saying that we shouldn't do it. He's just calling us to。
do it in the right way. So in verse 6, he's talking about judging and knowing。
when it's appropriate to say something or to reveal something to someone else.。
That's an issue of judgment. In verses 15 to 20, he's talking about identifying。
false teachers by the fruits and by the actions of their life. That's clearly。
something where he's telling us to exercise judgment and discernment. So the。
context helps us to see that, but the rest of scripture helps us to see that。
too. Throughout the scripture in the Old and New Testament, God calls on us to。
discern, to exercise judgment. He just wants us to do it in the right way.。
There's even a verse in John 7, verse 24, where Jesus says, "Do not judge by。
appearances, but judge with right judgment." So again, I think the focus of。
this passage is not that we should not judge at all, but it's rather that we。
should not have a judgmental attitude. And having a judgmental attitude is。
really unhealthy. It's really terrible. It causes a lot of problems. And having a。
judgmental attitude is when we make judgments or just try to discern things。
with a spirit of pride and arrogance, when we don't exercise grace towards。
other people, when we don't see how much God has forgiven us, when we don't, we're。
not meek, when we're condemning of other people, when we try to sentence other。
people or hold other people accountable, when we judge based upon what we can see。
and think that we know someone's intent or heart based upon the outward。
appearance, all those things are wrong. And they lead to hypocrisy and。
self-righteousness and all of these hurtful things. And sadly, a lot of that。
type of judgmental attitude is found in the church and has been found in the。
church. And so Jesus is not saying that he doesn't want us to exercise discernment.。
He's saying he wants us to avoid that judgmental attitude. And we're gonna。
examine all of those things over the next few weeks. But today specifically, I。
want us to start off by looking at some unhealthy attitudes about judgment that。
we probably have on some level. And these are attitudes in the church. They're also。
attitudes in culture at large. And sometimes they can kind of slip into our。
way of living and our way of thinking and we don't even realize it. But they。
can cause us to be unhealthy in different ways. So the first thing I want。
us to think about is just the attitude that, you know, no judgment at all is。
acceptable. And this is a pretty common cultural attitude that it's wrong to。
judge anything or anybody. It's unkind in some way. And it can seep into our。
life. Sometimes in the church as believers we can find ourselves saying,。
"Is it okay for me to even make a decision about certain things or to even。
try to discern what's right or what's wrong?" And I think it's clear that。
judgment is a necessary part of life. It's an essential part of our daily life.。
You probably already made a lot of judgments this morning. When you woke up,。
you probably looked at the alarm clock and based upon what time it was, you made。
a judgment decision as to whether or not you could go back to sleep or whether。
you had to get up and get ready to do whatever it was you wanted to do today,。
including get on your computer or your phone or your device so that you could。
view the stream. You made a judgment decision. If you went outside or。
if you're going to go outside later, you'll make a judgment decision then.。
You'll look at your phone or something else that tells you the temperature or。
maybe you'll stick your head out the door and just determine the temperature。
that way and you'll make a judgment decision based upon that about what you。
need to wear in order to stay safe today. And so all of us make judgment decisions。
all of the time and ultimately they're essential for our life. We couldn't。
function without them. We have to make them in order to be safe and that's。
important. And we have to realize that the reality of our world as God has。
created it is that not all actions have the same outcome. And that's something。
that we don't always want to admit. We want to try to make a world in our own。
minds where even if we do something that's not a good idea or it's。
unhealthy, it's still going to turn out great for us. But we can't make a world。
like that. We can't make our world be that way because that's not the world。
God created. God created a world where not all actions have the same outcome.。
And to go back to the illustration I used just a moment ago, if you go outside。
on a day like today in shorts and a t-shirt, that is not going to have the。
same outcome as if you go outside in a warm coat. Those are two different。
actions and they're going to feel very different depending upon which one you。
choose. And so making judgments helps you choose the action that's going to be。
healthy and right for your life and that's a good thing. We need to do that。
as humans and God wants us to do that. And the reality is that all people make。
those types of judgments. So saying that, "Well, we can't make any type of。
judgments. We can't discern anything that to even try is unhealthy or unkind。
or something like that." That's not really a good argument because all of us have。
to make those types of judgments about life just in order to function and to be。
safe and to do all the things that we need to do. But maybe we say, "Okay, so。
yeah, we have to make judgments about our daily life so that we can function. We。
get that." But the problem is when we begin to judge other people and we begin。
to maybe say something that is not affirming of someone else. Well, again, I。
would say that that's an unhealthy attitude towards judgment because we。
have to discern things and make decisions about other people. That's a。
reality of life. Every relationship that you're in involves making some level of。
discernment and judgment in that relationship. Why? Because relationships。
involve trust. And to trust someone you have to have some knowledge about them.。
And so any relationship, whether it's a friendship or someone at work or someone。
at school or a much deeper relationship like a marriage, is going to involve。
communication. It's going to involve response to that communication. And during。
that process you're discerning, you're saying, "Hey, is this person someone that。
I can trust? If I share the secret with them, are they going to share it with。
someone else? If I become transparent or vulnerable in this way, will I be safe?"。
Those are judgment decisions and all of us do that in relationships. All of us。
have to make decisions about who we can trust and who we can share our life with。
and what level we're going to share things with. And there's nothing wrong。
with that. That's a necessary part of living life and forming relationships in。
the world that we live in. And ultimately relationships would be impossible without。
some form of discernment and judgment. All of us understand that in our。
relationships. And again, not all actions have the same outcome. So at some point。
we have to be able to discern what's going on in the life of someone else. A。
simple example of this is like driving. If you pull up to a four-way stop or a。
red light, one of the things that you do is you're looking at the other drivers。
as they come up to the stop. And even if you have the right-of-way and it's your。
turn to go, if you see a driver that isn't slowing down and looks like。
they're going to blow through the stop sign or that they're going to go through。
the light even though it's red, then you make a judgment call to protect yourself。
and anyone who's riding in the car that you're in. And you say, "I'm not going to。
go even though I have the right-of-way, even though it's my turn to go. I'm not。
going to go because I see the action of someone else and it could harm me or it。
could harm the people around me." That's a judgment call and we have to make。
those. They're a part of our life. And even in the last year with the pandemic,。
we've seen ourselves as humans making so many judgment calls where we look at。
other people and their actions and say, "Hey, are their actions going to protect my。
health? Are their actions going to protect the health of the people around me?" And。
we make decisions based upon that. We say, "Okay, well here's what I need to do。
because of what I see someone else doing." Or, "Here's a situation that I can't be。
in or something that I can't go to because it might endanger my health." And。
so the reality is we're all making those types of judgments and discernment-based。
decisions all the time, even when they involve the actions of other people. And。
that's not wrong. It's okay to make those types of decisions. Again, what we want。
to avoid is being judgmental in a wrong way towards other people. So maybe we say,。
"Well, okay, I get that we need to make judgments in life and even some。
judgments about the actions of others are acceptable, but the problem is moral。
judgments that when we judge things as good or bad, that's really a problem." And。
I think that's a criticism that has been leveled at Christians and at the church。
a lot that people have said the problem with Christians is that they make all。
these moral judgments and they're always trying to say what's good and bad and。
that's really the problem. And it just turns people off and it。
makes people upset. Well again, I would say that that argument's not really a。
great argument to say that no moral judgments are acceptable. The reality is。
that everyone has a moral standard in their life. And honestly, sometimes we can。
see our moral standard or someone else's moral standard much better by our。
reactions than by our actions. What do I mean by that? Well, I mean, we might。
say, "You know what? I get really irritated at someone else because they judge me and。
I took some of their food out of the fridge, my family member, and they're so。
mad at me about it. What's the big deal? It's just a little bit of food." We might。
say, "It's not a big deal. My actions aren't that much of a problem." But。
our standard is revealed by our reaction. If someone takes something from us, that's。
when we reveal our true standard. We might say, "Oh, my standards are easy." But。
when someone wrongs us, how do we react? And when someone steals from us, suddenly。
we're angry and they need to be held accountable and they need to。
pay everything back to the last penny. A lot of times we can see our moral。
standards more by our reactions than by our actions. And the reality is everybody。
has a moral standard. Everybody has things that they think are right and。
things that they think are wrong. And everybody makes moral judgments.。
Everybody looks at things in life and says, "Hey, this is right or this is wrong."。
We again have seen that so much in the last year in our politics. You know, as I。
said, a lot of times this claim about moral judgment not being good or healthy。
is leveled against Christians and people in the church. But we've seen a lot in。
the last year, a lot of moral judgments. People saying what is good, what is bad,。
what is right, what is wrong. And the majority of those people are not。
Christians. They're not people in the church. Many of them are not even。
religious people, but they've made very strong statements about what is right。
and what is wrong. And that shows us that all of us have some standard of morality,。
some standard of what we think is right and is wrong. And we're willing to make。
judgments based on that standard. So the real question is, what standard are we。
going to compare to? It's not a question of whether or not we're going to compare。
things to a standard, whether or not we think anything is right or wrong. All of。
us have some things that we think are wrong and off-limits for humans. And all。
of us have other things that we think are good and healthy for humans. So。
that's not the question. The real question is, what standard are we。
comparing to? Whose standard are we going to use? And as I said at the beginning,。
for followers of Jesus, our standard is God's truth. For other people, there's a。
lot of different standards. But for followers of Jesus, we want to go back to。
God's truth. And we have to understand as believers that making moral judgments。
and discernments is actually an essential part of our faith. Again and。
again in Scripture, we're called to not be deceived. We're called to cling to the。
truth. We're called to be obedient to God. We're called to live righteously. All。
this stuff. Well, how do we do that if we are not able to make moral judgments and。
decisions that involve discernment, decisions that involve seeing and。
recognizing and distinguishing and apprehending right from wrong? And so。
ultimately, we have to make moral judgments in life. And Jesus is not。
banning us from doing that. He's just calling us to do it in the right way and。
in a healthy way and in a way that is not unkind to others. In a way that's。
respectful of others. And as we said at the beginning, in a way that is rooted。
and grounded in God's love and grace. God's love and grace for us and God's。
love and grace for others in the world. So like I said, I want us to close out。
here seeing that Jesus is calling us to exercise right judgment and to not have。
a judgmental attitude. Next week, we're gonna get more into the specifics of how。
to avoid having a judgmental attitude. But for this week, I just want us to see。
how important it is that we are able to discern things in life and that we're。
able to make healthy judgments and healthy decisions and that we are able。
to discern what is right and wrong. What's good for us and what's not good。
for us. And that we're able to look at the world around us and have some。
clarity about what's happening. That's so important and Jesus is calling us to。
that in this verse. And that's something that we should desire and that's。
something that we should practice and something that we should grow in as。
believers and as followers of Jesus. We should grow in our ability to discern.。
It's something that we can practice and it's a skill that we can develop by。
God's grace. And so we want to do that. Let's pray. God, thank you that you give。
us the ability to discern things, to see, and to distinguish, and to recognize. And。
God, we are so weak and limited in ability, God. Our vision is so short and。
so God, we need your help. We need your help so much in discernment, in making。
judgments, in understanding what's right and wrong. And so God, I pray that you。
would help us. That you would help us to grow in our ability to do that. That you。
would help us to grow in our ability to look at your word and to see what your。
word is saying about the issues of our life. That you would help us to grow in our。
sensitivity to listening to the Holy Spirit and how you want to use the Holy。
Spirit to speak to us. God, please help us to grow in discernment and in making。
right judgments so that we can distinguish right from wrong in our。
lives and we can have loving relationships with others. And God,。
please help us to not be judgmental and unkind and disrespectful in any way to。
the people around us, God. Help us to exercise right judgment and right。
discernment as we go through life. In Jesus' name, Amen.。
