- Hey, Chris, it's CEO.。
And today, I would like to end this three-part series。
on some reflections on the Israel-Palestine conflict.。
If you are following the news stories,。
this conflict is still going on。
with ground invasion from Israel.。
And there were a lot of people who lost their lives,。
and many of them, over 50% of them in Gaza,。
were children and women.。
So this is very tragic.。
But we'll take this conflict。
in light of this current conflict,。
and we ask the question, what we can reflect upon.。
We know that ideas do have consequences.。
Theology matters.。
Your understanding of God and faith。
in the Bible is critical.。
If we have a truncated understanding of faith。
or the Bible or God,。
it will trickle down into our daily life,。
and it will affect us.。
Let me give you some example.。
If you believed God to be a tiger parent,。
any one of you have a tiger mom or tiger dad?。
If you believe God is like that,。
tiger parent, stern and straight,。
it's probably very difficult for you to translate。
grace and joy in your own life, right?。
If you constantly think that God,。
in that kind of image, stern and straight,。
tiger parent, always a righteous judge,。
it's pretty difficult to live a graceful life.。
And/or if you think that the Bible。
is a moral book of legal demands,。
there are hundreds of laws or legalistic demands,。
lists of do's and don'ts in the Bible,。
then you probably have two options.。
One option is to be a Pharisee, right?。
A Pharisee would come up with a list of manageable works,。
of good works, that he can attend to.。
He can do all of this do's and don'ts。
and feel good about himself, right?。
It's a self-righteousness.。
Or the other option is that you live hopelessly,。
and there's no way you can match the standard of God.。
You always feel you're not good enough,。
and grace is so far away from you, right?。
So what I'm saying is ideas do have consequences,。
and our understanding of God should be growing, right?。
We get a better understanding of the Bible.。
So in this, in the light of this conflict,。
we ask the question, what can we reflect upon?。
And one idea we often encounter in the news story。
is that God seems to have two peoples.。
One is the Gentiles.。
The other one is the Jews.。
So it seems to be that God has two plans, right?。
Plan A is to save the chosen people, so-called,。
ethnic Israel or ethnic Jewish people.。
And then plan B is to save the Gentiles, right?。
And we are Gentiles, right?。
We are non-Jews.。
Ethnically, we are not Jews.。
So there is a popular theory that God has two plans,。
plan A for Jews and plan B for Gentiles.。
And so it ends up God has two distinct peoples.。
Is that really true?。
Is that really biblical?。
Now, if we think that God has two plans,。
if we think that God has two peoples,。
and one of the two peoples has more privileges, right?。
They are kind of a superior people, right?。
Being chosen, right?。
And the other one, the Gentiles,。
you know, they kind of did plan B, right?。
So plan A was to save one kind of people.。
And if that kind of people remain unbelief,。
the gospel spilled out to the rest of the secondary people,。
right?。
If we think that way, this idea has consequences.。
We will see one people superior,。
the other people inferior.。
So we have to examine that kind of notion,。
one for the ethnic Jews and one for the Gentiles.。
Is that really correct?。
So we have to go into a big passage in Romans 9 to 11,。
three chapters long.。
So in the letter of Romans,。
Paul is trying to explain to us。
what it means to be in Christ.。
We are standing in Christ,。
that means we are fully righteous,。
not because of what we have done,。
but what Jesus has done for us on the cross.。
So chapter one to chapter eight,。
he's trying to expand what it means。
to believe in the gospel.。
It's all about Jesus Christ.。
It's not about us.。
And then in 9 to 11,。
he's trying to tackle another tricky question.。
The Roman Christians might have been asking,。
and to understand these three chapters,。
we have to understand some sort of background。
of the Book of Romans and the city of Rome。
in that time period, in the first century,。
especially mid first century.。
What is going on there?。
What we can do is that we can outline three things.。
And the first thing, as you can see on the screen,。
most Roman Christians were Gentiles at that time.。
So they lived in the city of Rome,。
they gathered in small groups in the bigger homes,。
and they constitute the early church in the city of Rome.。
But most of them are non-Jews, Gentiles.。
And then we know that in the city of Rome,。
especially in the first century,。
there was a wave of anti-Semitism.。
People just don't like the Jews.。
And that kind of feeling,。
that kind of atmosphere was very, very strong.。
And in fact, we know that some of the Roman Empire policy。
would kick out some of the Jews out of the city of Rome.。
And that kind of public policy will feed。
into that kind of anti-Semitic atmosphere.。
With that, you can understand some of the Gentile Christians。
coming to the church, they thought that we are better.。
And the Jews are being kicked out, right?。
Being discriminated.。
And the Gentile Christian would have thought。
that God's plan for the Jews was over,。
it's game over for them.。
Now, they ask questions like,。
we are the people of God, we are the Gentiles.。
And there were no more Jews, right?。
They may feel that, or imagine that they are better,。
they feel superior, and they became arrogant.。
We are Gentiles, we win.。
And the Jews are being kicked out,。
and God's plan for them, God's saving grace for them。
is game over.。
Because, as you can tell,。
how many Jews were in the early church?。
Not many, right?。
But the foundational population of Christians。
in the early church were Jewish Christians.。
And then, as the church spread to other places。
in the Roman Empire, more and more Gentile Christians。
came into the church, and they became the majority,。
and the minority was the Jews.。
So, Gentile Christians having some sense of superiority。
with the culture around them, antisemitism.。
So, Paul is trying to write in this three chapters,。
nine to 11, trying to address this problem.。
Paul argues that, yes, only a handful of Jewish Christians。
in the early church.。
But don't forget, they are the foundational people.。
Remember, Apostle Paul, Peter, James, and John,。
all these early disciples, they were all Jewish Christians.。
They are the foundation.。
But yes, only a handful of them believe in Jesus Christ,。
and the majority of the church people are Gentiles.。
But Paul argues that this does not mean。
God's plan has failed.。
So, 9-6, he says, "It is not as though God's word。
"had failed, for not all who are descended from Israel。
"are Israel."。
What the heck is he talking about, right?。
Israel in two different senses, right?。
So, we can imagine two circles, right?。
Two circles, the big one is the ethnic Israel.。
All the people who are descended from the forefathers。
of Israel, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,。
they constitute the ethnic Israel at large.。
But there's a smaller circle inside, the true Israel.。
They believe Jesus as the Messiah,。
so-called the Messianic Jews today.。
They embrace Jesus as the Messiah.。
They're not waiting for another Messiah.。
They know Jesus on the cross and from the empty tomb,。
He is the Messiah.。
So, they believe in Jesus,。
and they call on the name of Christ.。
So, they constitute the true Israel, the believing Jews.。
So, Paul is saying,。
not everyone descended from Israel, ethnic Israel,。
is the true Israel.。
And as I told you in the early church,。
some of the most important people were Jewish.。
Paul, Peter, James, and John, et cetera.。
So, Paul is trying to argue that God's plan for the Jews。
is not over, it's not over.。
Because see, there are true Israel, the remaining Israel,。
the believing Jewish people, they are still with us.。
Because what matters is not whether they're ethnically。
related to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.。
What matters is that they are standing in Christ.。
10, nine, familiar verse.。
If you confess with your mouth, Jesus is Lord,。
and believe in your heart that God raised Jesus。
from the dead, you will be saved.。
Verse 12.。
See, there's no difference, there's no difference。
between Jew and Gentile.。
The same Lord is Lord of all, and richly blesses。
all who call on His name.。
So, God's plan for His original chosen people。
is not over.。
Paul is saying, look at the true Israel.。
Yes, they are the minority, but they are still there.。
Right?。
And then, in these three chapters,。
Paul moves on to an analogy,。
and the analogy is the olive tree.。
So, here's my amazing artwork here.。
As you can tell, there's one olive tree,。
and God has not rejected His people, the ethnic Jews.。
There's still a future for them,。
because God's saving grace is for all, right?。
He will execute His plan.。
So, here's just this analogy.。
There are a few things I'd like to point out。
from this amazing artwork, is that the root of the tree,。
the stem of the tree, is the Old Testament Israel,。
the Jewish people.。
Salvation is from them, and Jesus, by the way, was Jewish.。
Right?。
He was 100% Jewish.。
The root of the tree is the Old Testament Israel,。
and then there are natural branches.。
On the left, the green ones, are the believing Jews.。
Paul, Peter, James, and John, and all that.。
But some of the natural branches have been broken off.。
Lower right.。
They have been broken off because of their unbelief,。
because they hardened their heart.。
So, those are the unbelieving Jews.。
They are being broken off.。
However, from another tree, the Gentiles are being。
crafted in.。
They are from another tree, from the wild olive shoots,。
taken from the other tree and crafted into the one tree,。
the olive tree.。
Now, this famous olive tree speaks of God's。
undeserved grace.。
We don't deserve, if we are Gentiles,。
we don't deserve to be crafted in to the tree of salvation.。
Remember in Rome, the Gentiles were bragging about。
the fact that we are the majority, and the Jews are gone.。
Right?。
It's game over for them.。
That's what the Gentiles was thinking.。
But this tree analogy is trying to present to us grace.。
It's because of grace we are being crafted in.。
11, 17.。
Paul says, "If some of the natural branches have been。
"broken off, and you, although you are wild olive shoots,。
"have been crafted in among the others,。
"and now share the nourishing sap from the main olive root,。
"do not boast over those natural branches.。
"Do not think we are being crafted in so we are better,。
"so we are in a better place in terms of grace."。
No.。
Paul says, "Do not boast over those natural branches.。
"If you do consider this, you do not support the root,。
"but vice versa, the root supports you."。
Right?。
We share the salvation.。
We are being called the people of God.。
We are Gentiles.。
Don't boast about the fact that, okay, we are the majority,。
and the minority is over.。
The Jews is over.。
Now, two questions here.。
How many olive tree is there?。
How many?。
One.。
There's only one.。
So there's only one people of God,。
not two peoples of God, right?。
One tree, two kinds of branches,。
the natural and the wildly crafted, right?。
Second, where are you?。
We are the Gentiles.。
We are the yellow, right?。
On the right.。
We are not the natural branches,。
but by grace, we are being crafted in.。
So the olive tree speaks of God's grace to all of us,。
especially the Gentiles.。
Us, all of us, every one of us.。
We are being called the sons and daughters of God,。
being crafted into the people of God.。
It's all because, not because we are better,。
and it's not because they are worse.。
It's because of the grace of God.。
We enjoy the blessing, the relationship with God,。
and thank God for his saving grace, right?。
And there should be not boasting, but gratitude.。
We can come before God as his people.。
We should be thankful,。
thankful for what Jesus has done for us.。
At the same time, Paul is arguing。
that God's plan for the Jews。
is yet to come.。
It's not a game over for the Jews.。
God's promised to save many of those unbelieving Jews,。
and it is yet to come, 1125.。
Paul said, "I do not want you to be ignorant。
"of this mystery."。
Now he's like opening the lid of the pot,。
and you can see inside,。
there's a spiritual mystery yet to come.。
He said, "Brother and sisters,。
"so that you may not be conceited,。
"Israel has experienced a hardening in part."。
Part of the people are being hard-hearted,。
not believing Christ as, or Jesus as the Messiah.。
"Until the full number of Gentiles has come in,。
"and so all Israel will be saved."。
All right, this is a very, very difficult verse,。
and one thing you need to know is that,。
first thing is there's a mystery.。
There's a future unseen, not unfold yet,。
that is so all Israel will be saved.。
Now, one thing you need to understand,。
first, the key word here.。
The word all does not mean each and every single Jew.。
Now, how do we know that?。
This is obvious because if you check the Old Testament,。
many times it uses the phrase all Israel,。
and many times from the context,。
you know that it does not mean,。
and cannot mean every, each Israelite.。
It simply means many of them,。
representative number of them.。
And secondly, there's an adverb here,。
so, NIV translate, so, S-O.。
ESV has it in this way,。
or in this manner,。
or in the same manner.。
Now, the word translation is very important here.。
You know, ESV or NIV are right on,。
especially ESV.。
In this way, in a similar manner.。
Now, what does it mean?。
This adverb, so, or in this way,。
does not mean a straight sequential order.。
It does not mean, okay, A happen,。
and then B happen.。
So, cross that.。
It does not mean the full number of Gentiles。
come in to the church.。
We count one billion, two billion, three billion, and seven.。
Done, and then all Israel will be saved.。
No, it does not mean that,。
because that adverb is not a straightly sequential adverb.。
What it means is that, it is trying to show you。
it is in the like manner.。
Now, what does it mean?。
Look at the bottom of the slide.。
The yellow line is the full number of Gentiles。
being crafted into the church in the human history.。
In the last 2,000 plus years,。
Gentiles from here and there,。
here and there, generation to generation,。
are being crafted.。
God's saving grace becomes reality。
to each and every one of them.。
And the full number of Gentiles will be crafted, right,。
in the entire human history between the first coming。
and the second coming of Christ.。
That's the yellow line.。
And Paul said, "In this way, in the same manner,。
"all Israel, all true Israel, will be saved."。
So, the green line.。
So, it's not sequential, full number, boom, done,。
and then B happen.。
It's actually happening the same time, in the same manner.。
So, all Israel, true Israel, will be saved。
because God is choosing and saving。
from generation to generation,。
from different times and space,。
different places here and there,。
and save them to be God's true people, true Israel.。
So, that's the amazing thing about God's grace.。
We, the Gentiles, we can be God's people.。
You can be God's people.。
Not because we are naturally related,。
not because of blood relation, not because of ethnicity.。
We are saved because faith alone in Jesus Christ.。
If we confess with our heart and our lips。
that Jesus is Lord, then we are saved.。
It is by grace.。
It's by faith alone.。
Now, no other verses in the entire New Testament。
is more clear than this one, Galatians 3.。
It says about Gentile Christians,。
Paul says, "You are all sons of God。
through faith in Christ Jesus.。
All of you who were baptized in Christ。
have clothed yourself with Christ.。
The image of Christ is on us,。
and there's neither Jew nor Greek."。
It really doesn't matter.。
Your ethnicity, slave or free, economic status,。
male or female, gender, for you are in Christ.。
You are all one in Christ.。
If you belong to Christ, you are the seed of Abraham.。
You are the children of Abraham.。
Not because of ethnicity, but because of faith.。
You have the same faith with Abraham's faith.。
So, you are heir according to the promise of God.。
Now, by the way, this is not replacement theology, right?。
If you know that kind of word,。
that means church is replacing the original people of God.。
No, it's not replacement.。
It is fulfillment, fulfill in Christ.。
That's what the apostle says in Romans 9 to 11.。
God's plan is still going on.。
Yes, there's only a handful of Jews believing in Christ,。
but God's plan will continue.。
It's a mystery, but it's active.。
And God's plan continues to unfold in humanity,。
in human history.。
His saving goal, His saving plan。
will continue to be accomplished.。
And that is amazing because God's mysterious plan。
for the future, for His people,。
for you and for me continues to unfold.。
If we think about that,。
now we understand why Paul ends these three chapters。
with doxology, with praises.。
That's the end of chapter 11.。
He says, "Oh, the depth of the riches and the wisdom。
"and knowledge of God, how unsearchable His judgments,。
"His paths, the paths of God beyond tracing out."。
There's no way we can comprehend the future.。
There's no way we can advise God what He is doing.。
We just cannot comprehend。
because the riches of God's wisdom.。
"Who has known the mind of the Lord?。
"Who has been His counselor?" 35.。
"Who has ever given to God that God should repay him?。
"For from Him, through Him, to Him are all things to Him.。
"Be the glory forever, amen."。
He just end this passage with doxology,。
praising God together.。
That's the response song here.。
He just cannot keep it to himself.。
Paul, when he thinks about the plan of God,。
unsearchable plan and mysterious plan,。
he just wanna praise God and continue to serve Him.。
Sometimes we don't see the future.。
The future seems unknown to us.。
Or even we feel confused about what the heck God is doing。
in the future.。
That is what the Roman church was struggling with.。
And Paul burst out with worship and praise。
and say that, "Yes, we don't quite know。
"where God is leading.。
"We don't quite see the future.。
"We cannot just fast forward one year from now,。
"six months from now, six years from now,。
"or 10 years from now, what will be unfold?。
"We just don't know yet.。
"It's mysterious to us."。
But that does not mean God is not actively doing His purpose.。
Remember this line?。
I'm sure you heard of it.。
Never place a period where God has placed a comma.。
God is still working in the world,。
saving the Gentiles, saving the Jews, saving us.。
And indeed, God's working in our life,。
sometimes it seems mysterious.。
But the fact that it's mysterious is unknown to us,。
should not and must not limit the possibilities of God.。
God's plan in the world continues.。
It continues to unfold.。
And that's why after this doxology,。
Paul urges us in chapter 12,。
"Therefore," see the connection here?。
"God's plan is unsearchable yet active.。
"God's purpose is going to continue.。
"It is not a period, it's a comma.。
"God continues to orchestrate things for His glory.。
"Therefore, I urge you, brothers and sisters,。
"in view of the mercy of God,。
"to offer your whole life, your whole body,。
"as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God.。
"This is your spiritual act of worship.。
"Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world.。
"Do not think according to the culture,。
"according to the world,。
"but be transformed by renewing our mind."。
Dig into the word, study the word of God,。
and see what God is doing in the past,。
what God is doing in Christ.。
And we will be amazed that God's plan is mysterious,。
but yet His plan continues to unfold.。
Praise God.。
Praise God.。
"To Him, through Him, to Him are all things.。
"To Him be the glory forever."。
That should encourage us to continue to serve our mighty God.。
No matter what, offer our whole life as living sacrifice。
to worship Him, to follow Christ,。
not the world, but our Savior, Messiah.。
We're gonna sing the last song.。
And I pray that this song will be a prayer for all of us.。
Thank God for all the times, good or bad,。
continue to serve Him and follow Him.。
Let's pray.。
Father, once again,。
we acknowledge that we are so limited in our sight.。
We can only see a few things.。
A few minutes ahead of us.。
We can plan, we can worry about the future,。
but yet your word reminds us that you are the active agent.。
You continue to work for your glory,。
saving Jews and Gentiles alike,。
saving all of us in Christ.。
Yes, life is full of mystery,。
but we know they are all commerce.。
You have not put periods in our life journey.。
Your plan, your purpose continues to unfold in our life.。
In the midst of uncertainty, in the midst of unknowns,。
pray that you will increase our faith。
to see how amazing you are,。
how rich and unsearchable your plan is.。
To you be all the glory in Christ, we pray.。
