All right, all right guys,。
today I would like to meditate with you。
a very important subject, very important message,。
very important theme in the Bible.。
In fact, if in the Old Testament,。
if you take the New Testament away, the Old Testament,。
this is the most important passage of all.。
It's the passage of 10 Commandments.。
All right, I wanna do this because。
this is the end of the year,。
and we'll linger into this passage next Sunday as well.。
Next Sunday will be 2025, right?。
And this is a very, very important subject。
for us to meditate on, especially at the end of the year.。
And why?。
Because this is the 10 Commandments.。
The 10 Commandments has been known as the most important。
and most influential document of probably in the West,。
at least in the West, in the Western civilization.。
That is the, probably one can say。
is the moral and ethical foundation of all mankind。
that God has given to us.。
That is the 10 Commandments.。
And the series is titled,。
New Principles for New People,。
and it's taken from Exodus 20.。
So in the entire Old Testament,。
if you have to remember a biblical reference, all right,。
from which book and from which chapter,。
probably you have to memorize this, Exodus 20.。
Exodus 20.。
And that's where you found one of the versions,。
one of two versions of 10 Commandments.。
The other version you can find is Deuteronomy 5,。
but you can memorize in your head, in your brain,。
memorize this is Exodus 20.。
Now, when we look at the New Commandment,。
the 10 Commandments, oftentimes the word commandment。
carries some sort of negative connotation, right?。
You believe in Christ and you're a Christian。
and you're a follower of God,。
and then you heard a lot of about commandments.。
And commandment has a very restrictive sense to it, right?。
Because when we hear a commandment,。
this is commanded for you,。
and you be commanded to do something,。
and not to do something.。
So often it sounds very restrictive。
because it's kind of like, you know,。
boxing in our freedom, our choices.。
But, you know, if you turn to the Bible,。
especially the Old Testament,。
how the Bible described this document。
of what we call now 10 Commandments,。
it's not even using the term commandment。
in the Hebrew scripture.。
It's using terms like 10 words.。
And that's why we get the translation,。
dekala, dekala, dekala, 10, right?。
Logos, 10 words.。
Or one can describe the 10 Commandments。
not so much as the restrictive sense。
of the word commandment mean.。
We should describe it as constitution.。
Just like in the United States,。
we have the constitution, we have the document.。
It's not legal code.。
It's not something that attorney would go to。
and then find out which code to prosecute someone。
or to make sure someone is in line。
or prosecuting a crime or something like that.。
So it's not legal code, it's a constitution.。
The constitution has a general sense of being principles,。
all right, being living principle or the big principles.。
And that's why this series is called。
New Principles for New People, for new people.。
Now, these are big principles.。
Larger principles or higher level principles。
for the new people of God.。
And these principles are like the United States Constitution.。
Those terms and the amendments and all those statements。
are general guiding principles so that you can apply those。
to a specific situation or context.。
So we have to remember,。
it's not so much of commanding you to do this。
or that or not that or do this or that.。
It's not a list of things to do or things don't do.。
It's 10 words or 10 things,。
10 principles for the people of God.。
And because this is a very familiar passage, I hope, right?。
I hope to read this passage。
from the beginning to the end.。
There are 17 verses for the 10 commandments or 10 words.。
Okay, let me read this through first.。
Exodus 20, "And God spoke all these words,。
"I am the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt,。
"out of the land of slavery.。
"You shall have no other gods before me.。
"You shall not make for yourself an idol。
"in the form of anything in heaven above。
"or on the earth beneath,。
"or in the waters below.。
"You shall not bow down to them or worship them.。
"For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God,。
"punishing the children of the sin of their fathers。
"to be the third and fourth generation。
"of those who hate me,。
"but showing love to a thousand generations。
"of those who love me and keep my commandments.。
"You shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God,。
"for the Lord will not hold anyone guiltless。
"who misuses his name.。
"Remember the seventh day by keeping holy.。
"Seven days you shall labor and do all your work.。
"But the seventh day is the Sabbath to the Lord your God.。
"On it you shall not do any work,。
"neither you nor your son or daughter,。
"nor your manservant or maidservant,。
"nor your animals,。
"nor the alien within your gates.。
"For in six days the Lord made the heaven and the earth,。
"the sea and all that is in them.。
"But he rested on the seventh day.。
"Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day。
"and made it holy.。
"Honor your father and your mother。
"so that you may live long in the land。
"the Lord your God is giving you.。
"You shall not murder.。
"You shall not commit adultery.。
"You shall not steal.。
"You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor.。
"You shall not covet your neighbor's house.。
"You shall not covet your neighbor's wife。
"or his manservant or maidservant,。
"his ox or donkey or anything that belongs to your neighbor."。
There's 70 verses, 10 commandments.。
Have you heard of it?。
Yeah, you have heard of it, right?。
Have you got it memorized?。
All 10 commandments?。
Well, those are 10 words, right?。
Those are 10 big principles for the people of God.。
Now, you have to understand at the time of Exodus,。
at the time of Moses,。
now Moses got this 10 commandments on the mountain。
called Mount Sinai.。
Now what happened before they got。
the so-called download from the cloud,。
download from the cloud,。
the 10 words from the top of Mount Sinai,。
beforehand, what happened to them?。
It was Moses called by God to lead the Israelites。
out of the land of slavery, out of land of Egypt.。
And they have been oppressed for a hundred years.。
And God saved them by grace.。
And through the, well,。
they walked through dry ground,。
crossing the Red Sea,。
and then through the wilderness,。
and they finally come to the most important mountain。
in the Bible, which is Mount Sinai or Mount Horeb.。
Now they are at the foot of mountain,。
and Moses went up to the mountain top of Mount Sinai。
and download the 10 commandments in two tablets.。
And now they are new people of God.。
The Israelites were saved by God, saved by grace.。
Saved by grace.。
It's not because God looking down in Egypt。
and find that the Israelites are behaving well.。
So God decided, okay, I'm going to save you guys.。
No, they were sinners.。
They were in the land of slavery.。
They did nothing to merit the salvation of God.。
And God saved them because God is faithful to them.。
So God saved them totally by grace.。
And now they are being led to the foothill。
of the Mount Sinai.。
And they are now the new people of God and the new nation。
and living under new principles.。
So they have this new identity.。
That's why the 10 commandments are given to them.。
The 10 words, the 10 principles,。
so that they will live as the new people of God.。
This is a totally different people。
from all the other peoples on the earth.。
Now at the time of Moses, different nations。
and different kingdoms will make covenant,。
will make agreement with other people.。
And so often these international agreement or covenant。
between nations, between kingdoms for diplomacy.。
Like kingdom A will make agreement with kingdom B.。
It's kind of like the United States。
has different diplomatic relations。
with other countries, right?。
Canada is one of our friendly ally.。
UK or EU is our ally.。
And all those things are actually happening。
in the time of Moses as well.。
So in the ancient world, when nations come。
under some sort of relation, some sort of diplomacy,。
the relationship, political relationship。
or arrangement with each other,。
they will have a document to spell out the details,。
to spell out the terms or the laws between them.。
Especially when a bigger king, a greater king,。
will make agreement with a smaller kingdom,。
with the smaller king.。
And the great king will lay out all the details。
and all the terms.。
What we call now is the Suceran Treaty,。
Suceran Covenant.。
Now I know that's a big word, but just bear with me.。
It's just a political arrangement。
between a great king and a lesser king.。
In the time of Moses, that's how they do diplomacy,。
international relation.。
What we call now is Suceran Treaty.。
Suceran meaning the sovereign, right?。
The bigger king.。
And he will lay out all the terms。
and all of this documents and agreements between nations。
in the time of Moses, about 1500 BC or 1200 BC,。
they will follow a similar format.。
And a similar format are pretty much right here I outline.。
Usually those documents, Suceran Treaty,。
will begin with introduction.。
The introduction of the great king.。
So the great king will introduce himself as I am so and so.。
I am so and so king of Hittite.。
I'm making a covenant,。
I'm making a Suceran Treaty with a smaller king.。
Or I am the great king of Egypt,。
great king of other land.。
And he will introduce himself a little bit,。
and then he will come to the second element,。
which is the history, or what we call historical prologue.。
What it does is that the great king。
will recite some of the historical relation。
with the lesser kingdom,。
and how he has protected them,。
how he has guaranteed their security,。
how he has bussed the smaller nation.。
And it will detail some of the historical events。
that happened before between the big kingdom。
and the smaller kingdom.。
And that's the second element.。
The third element after the introduction of the great king。
and the historical prologue is the laws.。
The laws or regulations, or the stipulations.。
And those are kind of the thou shall do this。
or thou shall do not, all right?。
Thou shall not or thou shall.。
You should do this and you should do that,。
and you should not do this or that.。
Things like you have to be faithful to me.。
So the great king will say to the lesser king and say,。
"Hey, because I have protected you。
"in the history of your nation,。
"I've been blessing you guys,。
"and that's why you guys need to be loyal to me,。
"and you need to pledge allegiance to me."。
Those are the laws.。
And then number four, the fourth element,。
is the succession element.。
Succession element meaning when the document is draft,。
when the covenant is agreed upon,。
the lesser kingdom and the greater kingdom。
will agree to continue the agreement.。
Kind of like the end of the year,。
you have to sign some sort of document。
to renew your insurance policy,。
to renew your relation with somebody else.。
Those are what we call succession elements.。
And that's number four.。
Number five is calling upon all kinds of witnesses。
to draft the document, to finalize the document.。
They will call upon the gods or goddesses。
to witness the event of coming into relations。
with each other between the two nations.。
And then finally, there will be a section。
called blessing and curse.。
And what those are statements that will say,。
"If you are faithful to me,。
"then you will enjoy this blessing.。
"You will enjoy my presence.。
"If you are disloyal to me,。
"if you rebel against me, then there will be curses.。
"The greater king will threaten the lesser kingdom,。
"the lesser kingdom, and will say,。
"if you are disloyal to me,。
"then I will send my army and destroy you."。
And all sorts of things.。
So those are very, very long section,。
and with a lot of different statements saying,。
"You will be blessed if you do be faithful to me.。
"You will be cursed if you rebel against me."。
Now, if you can kind of read through these elements,。
one, two, three, four, five, six,。
and then you compare these six elements。
with the biblical documents,。
especially the first five books of Moses,。
you will find these elements in different places.。
Like the introduction, you will find the passage。
which is read, the very beginning,。
which is the introduction of the great king。
being Yahweh himself, right?。
The true God who saved Israel out of the land of slavery.。
And that's number two.。
Versus chapter 20, verse 2b.。
That is the history, right?。
I am the Lord your God.。
I have saved you out of the land of oppression.。
And then number three, element number three,。
are those laws, what we call 10 commandments.。
You shall have no other God before me.。
And all that, one, two, three, four, five, up to 10.。
10 words.。
And then there are also some sort of elements。
of secession, right?。
Deuteronomy 31, it talks about, you know,。
you guys need to be, the Israelites need to be。
continuously faithful to God.。
And then not only in this generation,。
but the next generation, not only you,。
but your children and your children's children.。
You guys need to be faithful to me。
and you have to recite this document again and again,。
again and again to renew your faithfulness again and again.。
And then there's also in Deuteronomy 30, witnesses.。
And because, you know, in the biblical religion,。
there's only one true God, right?。
And all the other gods are false gods.。
And they cannot be witnesses.。
So in Deuteronomy 30, being called upon to witness。
the event of the covenant is heaven and earth.。
It's the entire cosmos.。
So the creation is witnessing this foundational moment。
that God and his people enter into a treaty, a covenant.。
And then of course, in different chapters。
in the five book for Moses,。
there were so many sections on blessing and curses.。
And those are statements that says,。
if you are faithful, then I will be faithful to you.。
If you are not faithful, then you go into exile.。
Now, having revealed the format。
of the 10 Commandment document,。
and we now come to the point that we need to understand。
not only the draft documents。
according to the format of the day,。
but they also practice it in such a way。
that will align with the practice。
of the nations coming into covenant.。
Say for example, two nations,。
and they formalize the covenant,。
they will inscribe the terms of the covenant。
on stone tablets.。
So the 10 Commandments,。
that's why we have the two tablets, right?。
Inscribe on stone tablets, something that is permanent.。
So God and Moses, when they talk about,。
agree upon the treaty terms,。
the terms will be inscribed on stone tablets.。
So that's why God told Moses,。
hey, you come to the top of the Mount Sinai。
and bring two copies of the stone tablets.。
And what they did is align with other nations。
when they come into a diplomatic relationship,。
because they will bring two tablets。
and then inscribe their international covenant。
on the tablet, and then one copy for me,。
and one copy for you.。
And then you're gonna bring your copy,。
the stone tablet with all the terms of the covenant,。
you bring it to your capital,。
and in your capital, usually there is the biggest temple,。
and you put it in the holy place of your biggest temple.。
And I will do the same thing.。
And that's why there were two exact copies。
being made in the covenant-making moment.。
So often the modern impression is that。
there are two tablets,。
and one tablet is for Commandment 1 to 5,。
the second tablet has Commandments 6 to 10.。
We thought, you know, maybe one tablet is not enough,。
you need another copy to write the rest of the commandments.。
No, that is not the way.。
That is our modern misinterpretation.。
The right interpretation should be。
two tablets of exact copies,。
and one for you and one for me.。
And that's why in the Israelite temple,。
which is Tabernacle in the wilderness,。
and then later on in the capital city, Jerusalem,。
the stone temple, in the holy place,。
there is a copy of the stone tablet.。
That is for the nation of Israel,。
for the new people of God.。
So they put the tablet, put the covenant。
in the very holy place, the most holy place of the temple.。
And then God, of course, Yahweh himself,。
he's the true God, and he has only one temple to go to,。
right, which is the earthly copy of the heavenly temple。
in Jerusalem or in the wilderness in the Tabernacle.。
So he also put the tablet, God's tablet, in the same place.。
And that's why in the nation of Israel,。
in the Tabernacle or in the Jerusalem temple,。
you will find two exact copies in the most holy place.。
So having said that, we need to understand。
when God gave the 10 commandments,。
when God gave the constitution,。
it was the climax moment of the entire Bible.。
So the laws of God were not for the purpose of restriction,。
but it is a way for the people of God being saved by grace。
to respond with thanksgiving.。
So the 10 commandments are being given,。
not so much as you shall not do that, you shall do this.。
It's not so much of a list of do's and don'ts,。
but statement of grace.。
So when the people first heard about the 10 commandments,。
they would have responded with thanksgiving。
because God saved me, saved us out of the land of slavery,。
land of sin and land of death and oppression.。
God saved us by grace.。
So in some other tradition, like the Jewish tradition,。
the first commandment actually is not starting。
from verse three, which is thou shall have。
no other God before me.。
In the Jewish tradition, the first statement。
of the 10 words, the first word of the 10 words。
is actually verses one and two.。
To be exact, it's verse two.。
It says, I am the Lord your God, I'm Yahweh your God,。
who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery.。
Now it's not so much of do this or don't do that, right?。
It's not even moral code.。
It is a statement of grace.。
I have saved you, I brought you out of Egypt by grace.。
And now you are free and you come under me。
and I am your true God.。
I am your new Lord, no longer Pharaoh being your God,。
your Lord, Yahweh is your Lord.。
So the Lord are given as a way of telling the people。
that you need to be thankful, right?。
Now as a Christian for many years,。
I've always reminded how God has saved me out of grace,。
right?。
He has saved me by grace.。
And that is the foundation of my relationship with God.。
And so your relationship with God as well.。
So often we messed up.。
We think what we do or what we don't do。
will count us as the people of God,。
as a follower of Christ Jesus.。
No, the foundational truth for spiritual life。
is that God has saved you by grace.。
It's not because what you have done.。
It's because God has done something wonderful in your life.。
And that's why you receive the new principles。
to live as someone else, with a new identity。
as the children of God, as a son and daughter of God,。
as a follower of Christ.。
I have a new principle in my life to live differently.。
So I manage my time, I manage my life differently.。
I manage my family differently.。
I treat my children differently.。
I treat my job differently.。
I treat everything God has provided for me differently.。
It's a totally different principle.。
With that in mind, we come to the so-called first commandment.。
You shall have no other gods before me.。
Now in the ancient world, there were many gods.。
It's polytheistic.。
And all the gods, interestingly, are territorial.。
All the gods are territorial.。
It's kind of like our Chinese or Asian religious tradition,。
the Eastern religious tradition.。
Different gods have different realms.。
Different gods have different territories,。
different areas that they rule.。
It is also true in the ancient world of Israel.。
In the Bible, one god, one force god is the storm god.。
Another god is the sun god.。
Another god is the moon god.。
And they have their own territory.。
And the statement here,。
you shall have no other gods before me.。
What is new here is the word actually before me.。
Yahweh said, the true God said, there's no God before me.。
You shall have no God before me.。
The emphasis is actually on before.。
It's in my face.。
Literally, it means in my presence, in my face.。
And that means the God of Bible is all present.。
He is everywhere.。
He's everywhere.。
And you cannot hide from him.。
You cannot hide from him.。
You cannot say, oh, I don't go to church,。
so I hide from God.。
You know, God cannot see me.。
You know, I don't wanna show up in the church。
because I don't wanna see God.。
I don't wanna have God see me.。
No.。
It says, no other gods before me.。
So the entire universe is filled with the presence of God.。
Everywhere in the universe is before God.。
So here is a monotheistic statement.。
Says that one God only.。
He is the one and true God.。
He's not territorial。
because your entire life is under his surveillance.。
Your entire life, every single moment,。
every single aspect of your life is before God.。
So commandment number one says,。
you shall have no other God before him.。
Before the true God.。
Number two, you shall not make for yourself an idol。
in form of anything in heaven above。
or on the earth beneath or in the waters below.。
You shall not bow down to the idols or worship the idols.。
For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God,。
punishing the children for the sin of the fathers,。
the third and fourth generation for those who hate me,。
but showing love or kindness to a thousand generations。
of those who love me and keep my commandments.。
Now that's interesting here.。
It's the word jealous.。
But jealousy is usually a bad thing, right?。
Most of the time it's a bad thing.。
You know, jealousy is I don't want you to have something。
that I don't have, right?。
It's like you are more beautiful than me.。
I don't like it, right?。
That's why I want to destroy you, right?。
That is jealousy.。
Jealousy is usually a bad thing.。
It's a hateful thing.。
But you know, in the entire cosmos,。
there are two types of relationship.。
There should be jealousy.。
There should be jealousy.。
You say, wait, what?。
There are two types of relationship.。
There should have jealousy.。
It means exclusiveness.。
And one of the relationships is marriage, right?。
In marriage, we should have jealousy。
because marriage is a one man and one woman。
making covenant and being faithful to each other only, right?。
So the first relationship that should have jealousy。
is marriage.。
And the other one is here.。
It's your relationship with God。
because God is a true God.。
And you have a relationship with God,。
has a spiritual relationship with Him.。
Your relationship and how God see His relationship with you。
is also in terms of jealousy。
because you cannot worship other gods.。
You cannot worship other idols.。
You cannot have someone who has the first place。
in your life other than God Himself.。
That's why the commandment two, principle two says,。
"In your life, there should be no idols."。
Now, idols can be anything,。
whatever, whoever occupies your heart。
more than God Himself.。
So whatever occupies your heart, your mind,。
more than God is an idol.。
Whoever occupies your heart more than God is also an idol.。
So idols can be your career.。
It can be your money.。
It can be your family.。
It can also be your children or your grandchildren。
or some other human relationships.。
No one and nothing should take the place of God.。
God is number one.。
God is number one.。
If anything that occupies the number one place is an idol.。
And so often we try to use our human effort。
to take control of our own life。
instead of yielding our worship to God Himself.。
To recognize Him as the ultimate Lord, right?。
So number two says, you know, God hates idols.。
God hates idols.。
Now quickly, we go to number three.。
You put God as your number one.。
No other God, no other gods before the true God.。
And no idols will occupy or compete。
with the lordship of the true God.。
Number three, it says,。
you shall not misuse the name of God, the Lord your God,。
for the Lord will not hold anyone guiltless。
who misuses His name.。
Now we usually take this verse。
as meaning you should not curse, right?。
You should not say the name of God,。
Yahweh, Jesus Christ, you know, in vain, right?。
Is it the real meaning of this statement?。
Well, I would say no,。
because in the ancient world,。
name, name is not merely a label.。
It's not merely a label like, okay, I call you John, okay?。
And you're Peter, so I'm calling you John.。
John is unique.。
Name is not just a label in the ancient world.。
Name is power.。
Name is authority.。
Name is reputation.。
So statement number three here,。
commandment number three, has to do with God's power.。
So what do you deal with, how do you deal with God's power?。
The name of the Lord your God.。
Is that you shall not, thou shall not misuse。
the name of the Lord your God.。
Now, a little bit footnote here for the verb misuse.。
As I said, it's not so much of, you know,。
saying the term God or using the name of Jesus Christ。
in our statement.。
The verb misuse, translated misuse,。
actually means carry or lift up.。
It's like you pick up your backpack, okay?。
You pick up your backpack.。
That is the Hebrew word behind the English word misuse.。
So literally, the verse can be translated as shown here.。
You shall not carry the name of God in vain.。
You shall not carry the name of God in vain.。
And what it means is that you cannot。
carry the brand of God in vain.。
Let me give you an example.。
Let's say you own a McDonald's franchise, all right?。
You know McDonald's runs with franchise, right?。
And you apply for it, and then you own the franchise,。
and there's a great opportunity for you to earn money,。
of course, but, you know, come with that franchise。
is that it requires you to make significant investment。
in managing the business.。
It's McDonald, right?。
It's a McDonald.。
And it requires you a high level of commitment,。
and you must also follow the corporation's standards,。
like food quality, right?。
If you get one star or five star, then, you know, you're out.。
And you better keep up with the standards。
set by the corporate, set by the name, McDonald's.。
And you have to carry the good name of McDonald's。
when you own the franchise, when you manage the franchise.。
Now, with that example, we understand what this verse means.。
You shall not carry the name of God in vain.。
What it means is much the same way。
that since you are saved by grace,。
you're owning God's franchise,。
that in your life, you have the franchise of God,。
the true God, and you have to do everything。
to honor the name so that when people see you,。
when people look at you and see how you manage your time,。
manage your money, manage your career,。
manage everything in your life,。
they will see that, "Oh, wow, that is a good brand.。
"That is a good name.。
"I want to join that franchise as well," right?。
And we must admit and confess that sometimes。
we just not very up to the standard, right?。
We just thought that we are saved by grace。
so we can do anything we want.。
That's not how it works, guys.。
That's not how it works.。
No, you can lose your salvation.。
You can lose your identity。
if you do not honor the name, the franchise of God.。
And what a challenge to all of us at the end of the year.。
As we reveal the past year, what have we done?。
And what kind of effort we put into making。
or carrying the name of God, right?。
And people see us.。
The spouse see us.。
The children see us.。
We see that, you know what?。
God is real.。
When I see your life, your children will say,。
or your friends will say, "Oh, man,。
"she is different.。
"He is different, and I wonder why."。
And you'll be able to tell them, "You know why?。
"Because I'm carrying the name of God.。
"My life is the brand of God.。
"My life is the reputation of God."。
So we are saved by grace,。
and we come to God with new principles.。
We, because we are managing His franchise.。
Are we doing everything to honor the name of God?。
Are we doing everything in terms of managing our time,。
in terms of managing our schedule,。
in terms of managing our priorities?。
I know it probably has been challenging for you。
in the past year.。
However, you know, because we're saved by grace,。
and that is the foundation of all.。
We are saved by sheer grace of God,。
and my life is carrying His name,。
and His name is precious.。
His name is to be honored by all.。
Now, as we close, why don't we have some moment。
of reflection, and we come before God and say,。
you know, probably we have to confess for our shortcomings,。
confess our weaknesses,。
or sometimes, you know, kind of outside our mind for us.。
We just follow the motions as a Christian,。
and we are not really worshiping God.。
We're not really serving Him, right?。
We treat it as a job.。
God said, "You shall not misuse.。
"You shall not miscarry the name of God in vain."。
Why don't we come before God and have a moment of reflection?。
And let us pray together.。
Father, as we close this year, 2024,。
we count how many opportunities that You have given to us,。
the provision that You have provided for us.。
And we come before You with thanksgiving.。
Thank You for granting us all the good things,。
for all the good things come from our Father in heaven.。
And we wanna give You thanks and give You, say thank You.。
And not just that, we come before You。
not only with a thankful heart,。
but a renewed mindset,。
knowing that we are Your people, we are Your children.。
And God, help us dig into the bottom of the heart,。
that are we really honoring You?。
Or are we making excuses in our life?。
Trying to run away from You,。
even though we know for sure that You love us so much.。
Father, we confess our sins.。
We confess our weaknesses。
or our tendency to, we're so prone to wander,。
wander away from Your truth,。
wander away from Your grace.。
So yes, we come before You,。
know that You are the God of all grace.。
Thank You for the forgiveness。
You have provided for us in Christ Jesus.。
Forgive our sins and cleanse us.。
And renew our mind and our heart。
so that our heart will belong to You。
and belong to You alone.。
You are the true God, You're the only God.。
And thank You for creating us,。
redeeming us and guiding us.。
So help us to make a commitment before You,。
knowing that because You have been faithful to us.。
And that's why we live by Your principles,。
to be Your new people,。
to be people that carry Your franchise,。
carry Your name, carry Your reputation,。
that our lives will attract other people。
to come follow You.。
Help us to walk in the way of godliness,。
the way of holiness and purity.。
Help us God.。
And we know that You are full of grace and kindness.。
So help us to live in Your love,。
live in Your presence all time.。
And help us to abide to Your wonderful principles。
so that our lives will be different.。
Thank You for calling us to be Your church.。
And thank You for being with all of us,。
even though in the past year or so,。
our church has a lot of different issues and challenges。
and many changes,。
but we know that You are still faithful to us.。
So in the head of us, the new year,。
we recognize and acknowledge that You are still faithful.。
So help us to be faithful.。
In Christ, we pray.。
God bless you all and hope to see you next year,。
next Sunday, and continue to worship our one and true God.。
Right?。
(gentle music)。
(gentle music)。
