- Good morning everyone.。
Yeah, thank you Veronica for the clear announcement。
with different languages.。
Just like the song that we have just sang,。
from every tribe and every nation, right?。
You know, that is Christ's mind.。
You know, Christ is going to redeem every people。
and every tribe and every language to worship him, right?。
He is the Lord of all of us, okay?。
So very good to see you, okay?。
Very good to see you.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Salaam, brother.。
Yeah, all right.。
So I'm speaking three different languages.。
Yeah, that's all I can do.。
(laughing)。
Yeah, but that is the way to worship God。
because we use different languages,。
we use different dialects to express our praises to God,。
right?。
And our God is worthy of our praise.。
And we continue our series on back to basics.。
And there are basics in our Christian life,。
basics in our Christian walk, and we have to master.。
We have to understand, right?。
So often we don't find it enjoyable in our Christian walk。
or in our Christian journey, we have troubles。
because we have forgotten the basics.。
And these are basics that we need to focus on.。
And that's why in this series,。
we're going to go back to some of the basic understanding,。
basic knowledge, basic teaching of the Bible.。
And I've introduced something new to the congregation.。
It is the verse of the week, right?。
Remember this verse last week?。
Remember this?。
Verse of the week.。
And let's recite together, all right?。
I, that's part of your homework is to memorize it, right?。
Have you?。
I'm sure you have.。
Verse of the week, let's recite it.。
You must love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
all your soul, and all your mind.。
And this is the first and greatest commandment, right?。
That's what Jesus said to us.。
This is the first and greatest commandment。
of all the commandments in the Old Testament, in the Bible.。
There are many details, there are many different。
commandments and statues you can find in the Bible.。
But this is the most important thing.。
This is the ultimate summary, right?。
The ultimate summary of what God desire us to do。
is to love Him, to be loyal to Him, to follow Him。
with all our heart and soul and our mind.。
And last week, we were talking about the importance。
of the Word of God in our Christian walk, right?。
Our Christian walk, we cannot do so。
without the Word of God, without a correct understanding,。
without a solid teaching of sound doctrine.。
And that's why God has given us the scripture.。
And this is the verse of the week for this week,。
for this current week.。
And it's taken from the chapters that we are studying on.。
It's 2 Timothy 3, the last two verses.。
16 and 17, last two verses.。
Let's recite it together.。
All scripture is breathed out by God。
and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction,。
for training in righteousness,。
that the man of God may be complete,。
equipped for every good work.。
2 Timothy 3, 16 to 17.。
All right, so we got to have this verse,。
or these verses memorized for this week, okay?。
So whenever you are doing this or doing your work。
or there is some break time in your mind,。
try to recite this.。
I give you the Bible reference, 2 Timothy 3,。
and you can find it and recite it.。
All scripture is the breath of God, you know?。
And we're gonna study this chapter, chapter three.。
And remember last time I said this long chapter。
of 17 verses can be divided into two parts.。
And the first part is verses one to nine.。
Second part is 10 to 17.。
And the first part from verses one to nine。
is the dangers of neglecting God's word.。
God's own word, if we neglect or we ignore,。
there are dangers, right?。
Remember Paul is trying to warn Timothy.。
And again, Paul is the mentor pastor of Timothy.。
Timothy is his disciple.。
Timothy is kind of his mentee.。
And Timothy is being in charge of the churches in Ephesus.。
And Paul is writing this letter in very personal tone.。
That's why we call it pastoral letters, right?。
First and second Timothy in the book of Titus.。
He's writing to his mentees.。
Timothy is one of them.。
And trying to teach them, trying to encourage him。
to persevere in shepherding the church of God.。
There were many opposition, there were false teachers,。
there were many dangers in the church,。
in the small churches in Ephesus.。
And the first nine verses, it says there were dangers。
warning Timothy that this is the last days.。
Remember what I said about last day in New Testament term?。
The last day is the period between the first coming。
of Christ and the second coming of Christ,。
the final coming of Christ,。
which is still lying in the future, right?。
First coming of Christ, we know what it is.。
Incarnation of Christ, Jesus came in human form,。
fully God and fully man.。
And he died for us, died for our sins.。
And on the cross, he was crucified.。
And on the third day, he rose again。
and he was ascended to heaven.。
And he's king in heaven.。
And that is the first coming.。
And between first and second coming, it is the last days,。
the last period of human history。
according to biblical timeline.。
And Paul is saying to Timothy, this is a dangerous time。
because there are many difficulties。
and people are drawn to falsehood, right?。
I remember a few years ago when we had the pandemic,。
when the pandemic first hit us, right?。
Remember on social media, there's so much misinformation,。
right?。
There's so much conspiracy theories。
or just feeding our uncertainty, feeding our fear.。
And sometimes people are being hijacked。
by fear and uncertainty.。
And because the time was difficult, right?。
And we were in fear.。
And whatever information feed into our brain, our mind,。
especially sensational materials,。
they become like wildfire in the social media.。
And I just wonder, shaking my head at times,。
why people would come to believe in falsehood, right?。
Something is clearly wrong, right?。
And they just never double check, right?。
And, you know, scammers, right?。
It's all over the place, right?。
Yeah.。
I don't know how many scam calls you get during the week.。
How many calls you get during the week?。
Or text messages?。
I can't count, you know?。
I can't count.。
You know, every day I get something like,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(laughing)。
Something like that.。
In Chinese sometimes, sometimes in English, right?。
Hi, you know, I'm your old friend, you know.。
I know some of your friend.。
Or I even claim that they know my dad, you know?。
My dad passed away many years ago.。
(laughing)。
But, you know, there are people who believe in scams, right?。
Not too long ago, I received a phone call from a young girl.。
I received a phone call from a young girl.。
And she was in the mid-twenties.。
And she called me because she was in trouble.。
She received a call from IRS, you know,。
our tax department, right?。
US tax department.。
It's very scary.。
Called her and said,。
"Hey, you did not file your taxes, right?。
"For so many years, right?。
"You've been working, you did not file your taxes.。
"And now you have to pay back, all right?。
"And you have to pay back like $5,000.。
"But this is how you, you know, deal with IRS, right?"。
There's a scammer told her,。
"Okay, you go to the Apple store, all right?。
"You go to Apple store and buy Apple gift cards。
"of 5,000 worth, all right?。
"And you're gonna give me the gift card number。
"and the code or whatever identification.。
"And you give it to me, you know, through email online.。
"And then, you know, we're gonna cancel out your taxes.。
"All right?"。
And she believed it.。
She went to Apple store and got all the gift cards。
and 5,000 worth and gave all the numbers away.。
It was crazy.。
And that's why she called me.。
She said, "My goodness, I'm in trouble.。
"Now I realize, you know, it was a scam, right?"。
So miserable, right?。
There's nothing I can do, right?。
There's nothing you can do, right?。
But it just blow my mind, you know,。
how she could have believed something like that, right?。
You know why?。
It's not because she was stupid, right?。
She's very smart.。
It was because she was in fear, right?。
Indeed, she did not file taxes.。
Indeed, for a couple of years, she did not,。
she forgot or she just ignore it, right?。
And she knew that she owed some money to IRS, right?。
And that's how the scammers got to her, right?。
Because she was in a state of uncertainty and fear。
and all sorts of misleading content。
that she would believe, right?。
And this is the last stage, right?。
And we continue to read this passage.。
We find that Paul is trying to urge Timothy。
to learn the truth and learn the word of God.。
And that's why the second part, he says,。
there's so much benefit of learning the word of God,。
learning the truth, trying to discern, right?。
And we go through this part of this passage already。
last week from verses 10 to 15.。
And now we come to this two verses,。
the verse of the week, verse of this week.。
And I tell you, in the entire Bible,。
these two verses, 2 Timothy 3, 16 to 17,。
are some of the most important verses in the Bible.。
These two verses are some of the most important verses。
in scripture.。
And let's unpack it and we'll see why.。
It says, "All scripture is the breath of God."。
God breathed.。
God breathed.。
And it's useful for teaching, rebuking,。
correcting, and training in righteousness,。
so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped。
for every good work.。
Now, these verses are very, very valuable, very important.。
And why?。
Now, this is the last paragraph of chapter three.。
And Paul is trying to encourage Timothy,。
yeah, learn from your mentors, right?。
Remember, Paul is one of his mentors.。
And who else?。
His mother and Timothy's grandmother, right?。
Eunice and Lois.。
Learn from them, because since you were a child,。
you were learning scripture from these people, right?。
And here in verse 16, he says,。
"All scripture is the breath of God."。
Well, let's unpack it.。
Our first, the key word here is the breath of God.。
God breathed out.。
He spoke forth His word.。
And God is the speaking God.。
God spoke and God is speaking today.。
And God will be speaking tomorrow.。
And God is the God who speaks.。
The idols don't speak.。
They may have mouth, they may have lips,。
but they do not speak.。
Now, you don't have to be thoroughly learned in the Bible。
and you get the point, right?。
Because the first page of the Bible,。
when you turn to the Bible, the very first page,。
the very first chapter, very first passage,。
is Genesis one, right?。
In the beginning, God created the heaven and earth, right?。
And then there were some other details,。
the spirit of God upon the water.。
And what did God do?。
What was the first thing God did?。
He said, right?。
And God said, what did He say?。
Let there be light, right?。
Let there be light.。
And then there was light.。
So you got that from the first passage of the Bible,。
that God has the attribute of speaking.。
God is someone who reveals.。
God is someone who tells you what to do.。
God is someone who can speak.。
And here it says all scripture is the breath of God.。
It's the very breath of God.。
It tells you that God himself。
is the ultimate author of the Bible.。
You have your Bible on your phone app。
or you have a physical print Bible,。
but here it declares that all scripture,。
the Bible is actually written by God.。
Of course, it's written by God through people, right?。
Through human authors, like Paul himself, right?。
Like Luke, who wrote the Gospel of Luke.。
And Mark, the Gospel of Mark.。
And some of the letters,。
or Moses wrote some of the books, right?。
But the ultimate author is God himself.。
And it tells you the authority of scripture,。
the standard of scripture.。
You know, we are an evangelical church,。
and we are in the great tradition of reformation.。
More than 500 years ago, 1517.。
1517.。
That was the year that launched the movement of reformation.。
And the guy who launched it,。
one of the guys who reformed the faith at that time。
was Martin Luther, right?。
Not Martin Luther King, Jr., okay?。
That's a different guy, right?。
Martin Luther, 1517.。
Martin Luther, okay?。
He's a church reformer,。
because he saw the Catholic church was broken,。
and they were not coming under scripture.。
So the entire movement of reformation is to call people,。
call the churches to return to the word of God.。
And the scripture is the final authority。
of everything that we believe。
and how we practice the Christian faith.。
We always have to return to the word,。
return to scripture.。
And Paul is saying all scripture is the standard,。
because God has written it,。
and he has divine authority.。
It says all scripture, all scripture, singular, singular.。
Now, in the time of Paul, they only had the Old Testament.。
Do you get my point?。
The New Testament was still in the making, right?。
Some of the letters are being written.。
By this time when Paul wrote 2 Timothy,。
some of the letters from the Old New Testament。
or even the gospels were already being circulated,。
circulated in different churches.。
But the entire New Testament, New Testament canon,。
all 27 books are still in the making.。
And the Christians in Paul's days in the first century,。
they only had the Old Testament,。
which was originally written in Hebrew.。
And a couple of hundred years before Jesus,。
it was translated into Greek.。
And the apostle Paul or the early churches,。
they were using the Old Testament only,。
either in Hebrew or in the translated version Greek,。
we call it Septuagint.。
They only had the Old Testament.。
Now, listen up.。
All scripture, Paul is saying all of the Old Testament,。
right?。
All of the Old Testament, whether it's Hebrew or translated,。
they are as one, the Word of God, right?。
The whole Old Testament is already the very Word of God.。
Right?。
Now, you think about it, this is pretty interesting,。
pretty inspiring.。
Just the Old Testament, right?。
Just the Old Testament.。
Yeah, maybe somehow your house got caught on fire, right?。
And your Bible is being burned, right?。
Let's say the New Testament, all 27 books。
are being burned away, right?。
They've been consumed by fire.。
You got out of the fire and you got the Old Testament, right?。
You still have the Word of God, right?。
The first 39 books.。
Paul is saying all the Old Testament。
is already the very Word of God.。
And think about it, this is very interesting.。
For us, we have more than the Old Testament, right?。
Because Jesus came and all the books of New Testament。
are being written about Him coming, right?。
And all 27 books are being added to the,。
what we call canon, what we call the full revelation。
of God in scripture.。
And now we have Old Testament and the New Testament.。
We have the Old Testament's 39 books。
and we have the New Testament 27 books.。
How perfect we are, right?。
We have more than what Paul had, right?。
What Timothy had.。
And we know the Word of God,。
we know the will of God so much more.。
And we can comprehend the Word of God。
or the mind of God, even with more content, right?。
We are so blessed to have so much。
that God has revealed to all of us,。
the Old and the New Testament.。
And Paul is saying all scripture is the breath of God。
and it's useful, it's profitable, right?。
Useful for teaching, for rebuilding, correcting。
and training in righteousness。
so that we can be fully equipped for every good work.。
Let's unpack this.。
I still like the New Living Translation, NLT.。
And I give you here and at the bottom of the screen。
is the contemporary Chinese translation.。
I think these more contemporary language。
would have us better understand。
the usefulness of scripture.。
There are four phrases.。
Paul is saying, if you go to scripture,。
you read the Bible, first thing,。
the Bible will teach you what is true, right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Right?。
Teach you what is true.。
And secondly, is to make you realize。
what is wrong in your life, right?。
I tell you one of the secrets, I think,。
that we don't like to read Bible.。
You know why?。
Because of this second purpose.。
We don't like to be confronted, right?。
We always want to be comforted, right?。
But you know, you go to scripture,。
so often the scripture confronts us, you know?。
There are behaviors, there are mindset we have to change.。
Right?。
And when it comes to changing and repenting,。
we just don't like it, right?。
That's why sometimes we ditch the Bible, right?。
We just don't like to read it.。
Or we like to read it because we just want to read it。
selectively, right?。
We're just cherry picking all the time, right?。
Just like to read whatever we like or sound good to us.。
However, there are many, many passages in the Bible。
that confronts us, show us that we have sins。
to repent from.。
We have shortcomings.。
We need to ask God to give us grace.。
And that is the value of scripture, right?。
To tell us, yeah, there's something wrong with us, right?。
And that's why we need grace.。
And that's why we need Jesus Christ,。
to make us realize this,。
so that our life cannot be the same.。
We can be changed and we can be changed。
by the grace of God, right?。
Only if we allow God and the Spirit to work in our lives.。
And that's the second purpose.。
The third purpose is to correct us.。
It's not just showing you what is wrong in your life,。
but it's to tell you when, to correct you,。
to show you the way, the right way,。
when you are wrong, right?。
Yeah.。
I've been driving for almost a year,。
over 30 years, yeah.。
Over 30 years, yeah.。
I consider myself a pretty experienced driver, right?。
Don't you think?。
And I also have some experience in teaching new drivers,。
right?。
You know, my sons and daughters, right?。
I'm trying to teach them how to drive, right?。
And it's such a pain to teach them.。
It's so painful to teach a new driver,。
especially a young driver, right?。
I have to show them what is right, right?。
I also have to, and that is pretty easy, okay?。
You have to turn right.。
You have to turn left.。
You have to make a full stop here, okay?。
They said, "Dad, you don't always do a full stop."。
I said, "Don't worry about me, okay?。
You have to do it, okay?。
Because you're a new student, right?"。
But that's pretty easy.。
The first thing is pretty easy.。
The second thing is pretty hard, right?。
To help her or him to realize。
there's something wrong in his or her driving, right?。
There's some habit you have not developed, right?。
Like checking your blind spot, right?。
Even today, I'm sitting in my son's car.。
I still have to remind him, right?。
Every turn you're gonna make,。
you have to always check the blind spot, right?。
Yeah, if you go to my cars, a few cars, a few old cars,。
I always have the, I always buy the blind spot mirrors.。
You know what that is?。
I stick it on the side of the side mirror, right?。
Because I've been using it for decades, right?。
And every single car that I own, or before, or now,。
I always have the blind spot mirror, right?。
So I have to remind the new driver,。
"Come on, you have to check your blind spot.。
That is the most important thing," right?。
Yeah, and sometimes they get angry.。
They get angry at me, you know?。
I'm so kind, right?。
I just want them to drive well, you know?。
But that is the human nature, right?。
We don't like to be pointed out。
there's something wrong in our lives, right?。
But that's what scripture does.。
Not only showing us what is wrong in your life,。
but to correct you, to tell you what is the right way,。
the better way, right, to live.。
And then lastly, is to teach us what is right.。
The original term for the fourth purpose,。
teaching us to do what is right,。
is actually, a better translation may be discipline.。
You know?。
You know what discipline is?。
Habit, right?。
Remember, beginning of the year,。
I have a series on the book of Proverbs,。
and the series is called Atomic Wisdom, right?。
Atomic habit, it means small, tiny habits。
that we have to build in our life。
so that we can be godly, we can be trained and equipped。
to walk in the way of God, right?。
And there are tiny atomic habit we have to develop.。
Ask questions, you know?。
Now, meeting together is one of them.。
Reading the Bible is one of them.。
And praying, we're gonna talk about it later,。
some of the habits or disciplines。
that we have to develop, right?。
And every one of us know what discipline looks like, right?。
In the beginning, it was painful, right?。
But as you go on, as you persevere, as you continue,。
you find it is helpful for you, right?。
Right?。
But those of the people who do workouts。
from time to time or regularly,。
you know what I meant, right?。
You know what I meant, right?。
When I first do, try to do workout,。
did I tell you?。
I do plank, right?。
I do plank, I started with, it was a couple years ago.。
You know, I find that, you know, I'm getting old。
and I need to do some more exercises, right?。
And, you know, being a pastor,。
sometimes we just sit there and in front of the screen,。
we have to prepare messages。
and we have to answer phone calls and email and all that.。
And sometimes we just get lower back pain, right?。
And I started with plank for only 45 seconds.。
Dude, it was painful, right?。
And now I can do seven minutes, right?。
Can you do seven minute plank?。
It's pretty good, right?。
For someone like me, right?。
Over 50.。
But, you know, you build up your body, right?。
And you become stronger and stronger and stronger, right?。
Until today, if I don't do plank,。
I feel like there's something wrong。
and something missing, right?。
So to get up, I have to do plank again, right?。
And push up and all that stuff.。
That's what I'm saying, discipline.。
NLT has it, teaching us to do what is right.。
Peiyang, xingyi.。
Peiyang, cultivate, right?。
It's a habitual pattern, right?。
And we all know the Olympic games。
are gonna start soon, right?。
July 26th, right?。
Olympic games.。
I don't know if you watch some of the preparation。
and some of the qualifying games on TVs.。
It's pretty interesting to watch.。
And pretty exciting and inspiring to watch.。
But the athletes, why are they doing what they do, right?。
How could they do something like that, right?。
Because they have gone through tough training, right?。
It's not something that you can do overnight.。
They do it day after day, hour after hour,。
minute after minute.。
Then that's why they have the ability to do it, right?。
Christians, we need to read scripture。
and we have to understand scripture, right?。
I'm thankful we have at least the men's breakfast, right?。
And we're going through scripture verse by verse。
or chapter by chapter.。
I hope this will continue to develop.。
They'll develop into a more solid,。
like a Sunday school class, right?。
And a Bible study, so that we can have。
a better understanding of the word of God, right?。
And we're gonna close by this verse of the week.。
Oh, by the way, yeah, I said the old scripture,。
2 Timothy was the worst of the week, right?。
This should be the one.。
Sorry about that.。
Yeah, I'm dating myself.。
This is the verse you have to memorize。
for this coming week, all right?。
Verse of the week, all right?。
Matthew chapter five, verse 14.。
"You are the light of the world,。
"like a city on a hilltop that cannot be hidden."。
The light of the world.。
This is the verse you have to memorize this week, all right?。
Why did I pick this verse?。
You know, in Jewish tradition, Jewish rabbinic literature,。
they discuss what is light, what is light.。
And to them, what is light?。
The Torah is the light.。
It's the light for life.。
The Torah, it meant the scripture, right?。
For the Jews, it was the Old Testament, right?。
The Hebrew Bible.。
For us, it's the entire Bible.。
And in their discussion among the rabbis,。
the Torah is the light of the world.。
The Torah is the light of the world。
because the Torah will give life to people.。
The Torah will give grace to people,。
will point people to the right way of wisdom.。
And here, Jesus said something really interesting.。
He was saying to his disciples, right?。
It's part of the Sermon on the Mount, right?。
Yeah.。
Pastor Chi has been preaching on it.。
He was talking to his disciples.。
"You guys are the light of the world."。
Wait a minute, what does it mean?。
That means you are the Bibles.。
You are the Torahs.。
You are the lives who will show people。
the beauty of the Word of God, right?。
If you listen to me and obey me, Jesus said,。
you are the light of the world, right?。
You know most people don't read the Bible, right?。
You know most people don't understand the Bible。
and where to start, right?。
But you guys are different, right?。
When they see you, when they see your life,。
they just see the beauty of God's Torah,。
God's law, God's very Word, right?。
Because you're living out the Word of God.。
You are the light of the world,。
like a city on a hilltop that cannot be hidden.。
You cannot hide.。
If you profess the name of Jesus Christ,。
you believe in the name of Jesus,。
you cannot hide, you cannot hide in the dark.。
And you are the light, right?。
And as we conclude, I want us to take this challenge.。
To take this challenge is to read and meditate scripture,。
right, to read and meditate the scripture.。
You are the Bible in some sense.。
You are the Word of God.。
And you know, in our time, in our age,。
I think this is the most challenging thing that we all face.。
It's not so much of preaching the gospel。
or telling other people what they should believe.。
That is not the most challenging thing.。
It's that the most, the biggest challenge for us。
is that, is how to give people a good, convincing,。
positive impression of what the Christian is like.。
You can tell people about the gospel,。
but at the end, you need to leave a good,。
positive impression.。
Whether the person believes or not, right?。
Whether the person is convinced。
about the gospel of Jesus Christ or not.。
That is not the question.。
That is not something we can do, right?。
Only the spirit can do, right?。
But what we are urged to do is to give people。
the positive, convincing impression。
of what believing in Christ is like, right?。
Can we do that?。
To our family members, to our children,。
to our spouse, to our neighbors, right?。
Can we do that, right?。
By what we say and how we behave, right?。
How we interact with other people.。
Let them see a good impression.。
Let them see the convincing impression, right?。
You are the light of the world.。
Let's close.。
(smacks lips)。
Father, we all come before you.。
We confess that we're broken, we are weak.。
Sometimes we do ignore the word of God.。
But the word of God is right in front of us.。
But we neglect it.。
We'd rather watch videos, we'd rather scroll our phones,。
and being distracted by all these worldly desires.。
We come before you to confess our sin.。
So cleanse us and forgive us.。
Let us focus, once again, the light that you have given us。
that will shine into our lives,。
all the darkened corners of our heart.。
And we need your word.。
And may we continue this habit。
to read and to meditate your word.。
For your word is good.。
Your word is precious and perfect.。
Give us the understanding, give us the wisdom,。
so that we can understand scripture,。
understand the very word.。
In scripture, we find you.。
In scripture, we find you being with you.。
And thank you for being our good and faithful God.。
May we take your word more seriously.。
May we read your word more diligently.。
So that we are full of your message,。
full of your word, so that we can be the light。
to this darkened world.。
Send us out this week.。
So we go to our neighborhood, go to our families,。
to interact with other people, Christians or not,。
that our lives will be the light.。
Our lives will be your word.。
And we will be your representatives.。
Send us out and use us, and help us to dig into your word。
and to help us to understand your very word.。
Thank you for being our God who speaks,。
and you still speak.。
Speak to us through your spirit, through scripture.。
Grant us an obedient heart to listen and to obey。
in Christ and pray.。
All right, guys, hope to see you next week,。
and we'll continue to serve our God。
and to understand the word, all right?。
God bless.。
