him. Thank you and I'm excited to be here today. I love being at UV. I get to see。
old friends and new friends every time I'm here and it's really good to be。
back. I haven't been here for a few months. It's been a while but I was here。
years ago for a long time for a period of years was here and always a part of。
the UV English service so it's really good to be back with you. This morning。
we're gonna look at the story of a mother. It is Mother's Day as we've。
already noticed and discussed this morning and that's a special day.。
Hopefully you've already had a chance if your mother is living. Hopefully you've。
already had a chance to connect with her and offer some words of appreciation and。
gratefulness and encouragement to your mom. My wife is here with our kids.。
We have five kids and our oldest is 11 so she's a very busy mom and my mom I。
come from a family of 10 kids so I had nine siblings. I've seen a lot of。
moms up close who had a lot to do and seen the service that they give and。
that's what we're gonna talk about today how that can be a model for us. I know。
not everyone has a mom who models God's love for them. Sometimes our。
relationship to our mom can be painful and if that's your experience that's。
fine that God can heal that and God can can bring us through that and even the。
things that we're gonna talk about today are things that apply really to all of。
us and so we're gonna be looking in the first chapter of Luke. We're looking at。
this very famous mom in Scripture, Mary the mother of Jesus and in this passage。
we see the beginning of the story of Jesus's physical manifestation and his。
birth here on earth. Now most of us associate this story with Christmas.。
We're in Luke chapter 1 we're gonna be looking at verses 26 to 38 and a lot a。
lot of times we think about this story in terms of Christmas and it is that's。
okay it is a part of the Christmas story but this is also the beginning of not。
just Jesus's birth but the beginning of Mary and of what we see of her。
throughout the story of the Gospels and so today we're gonna think about her。
life a little bit and some of the things that we can learn from her life and the。
theme of what we're talking about that we see modeled in her is this this heart。
attitude this posture of unseen service and we see this in Mary's life and if。
you had a mom who loved you especially if you had a mom who loved Jesus and。
loved you I'm sure you saw this in your mom's life. Moms model this so well for。
us this this attitude this posture of unseen service. So let's think about Mary。
for a minute. Here she is a seemingly unremarkable young woman. She's a peasant。
woman. She doesn't have any wealth, any authority, any position, any status. She's。
from one of the most forgotten small villages in Israel, Nazareth, and she's。
going to become known for being the mother of Jesus but she's also going to。
be known as we're considering today for being unknown. There it's conspicuous her。
story is conspicuous because of how little we know about her even though she。
plays this really important role we really don't know a lot about her and。
the the biggest picture we see of her is at this point when when Jesus is born。
and then after that throughout the Gospels there's only really small pieces。
of her story that we see and that tells us that so much of her service to God。
was unseen so much of her service to God was invisible to us and honestly。
invisible even to the people in her life. We don't know how much time she spent。
caring for Jesus or all the things that she did as a mom to care for him when he。
was an infant or when he was a toddler or when he was a boy and eventually a。
young man. We don't know all of those things that she did. We know she did。
those things because that's a part of human life and she was a mom but we。
didn't see them they're not recorded for us. We don't know all the prayers that。
she prayed over her son. We don't know all the tears that she cried. Mary we。
know from the scripture it talks about her reflecting and considering things。
in her heart. She was deeply spiritual. She knew God. She was obedient to God.。
She was a servant of God and she watched Jesus be persecuted and she watched all。
the things that Jesus went through in life. That must have been deeply。
emotionally wounding to her but we don't we don't see that. That's not a part of。
the story that we're given and that's one of the exemplary things about her。
that we can learn from is that she plays such an important part but she's so。
humble and she's content for her service to God to be unseen and that's why we're。
gonna look at her story today. Since it's Mother's Day she's a great model for us。
and like I said so many moms model that for us as well but I want to be clear at。
the beginning here we're not saying that Mary and her unseen service is a great。
model for moms although that is certainly true. We're saying she is a。
great model for all of us because being willing to serve and to serve God and to。
be obedient even in ways that no one notices or sees or thanks us for is not。
just something for Mary to do it's not just something for moms to do it's。
something for every believer every follower of Jesus. We should all have。
this attitude this this posture of heart that we see in her. So that's what we're。
gonna consider today. So let's read this passage together beginning in chapter。
26 this is Luke 1 26 to 38. In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from。
God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth to a virgin betrothed to a man whose。
name was Joseph of the house of David and the Virgin's name was Mary and he。
came to her and said greetings Oh favored one the Lord is with you but she。
was greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern what sort of greeting。
this might be and the angel said to her do not be afraid Mary for you have found。
favor with God and behold you will conceive in your womb and bear a son。
and you shall call his name Jesus he will be great and will be called the son。
of the Most High and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David。
and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever and of his kingdom there。
will be no end and Mary said to the angel how will this be since I am a。
virgin the angel answered her the Holy Spirit will come upon you and the power。
the Most High will overshadow you therefore the child to be born will be。
called holy the Son of God and behold your relative Elizabeth in her old age。
has also conceived a son and this is the sixth month with her who was called。
barren for nothing will be impossible with God and Mary said behold I am the。
servant of the Lord let it be to me according to your word and the angel。
departed from her the first thing we see in this passage about Mary's heart。
attitude her posture is that she has this posture of submission and surrender。
and that's so important for us if we want to be willing to enter into unseen。
and unacknowledged service to God we have to have a hard attitude of。
submission and surrender it's right there in verse 38 Mary says behold I am。
the servant of the Lord let it be to me according to your word now Mary was a。
young woman again there's so much we don't know about her but we know she。
must have she was a human being just like us so she must have had a lot of。
plans and dreams and hopes for her future just like every young person every。
young person has things that they want to do and ideas in their head of what。
they want their future to be like and whether it's relationships or something。
they want to achieve or something that they want to be a part of everybody has。
those dreams so Mary would have had those as well just like any other young。
person and yet she hears this she hears God's truth communicated to her from。
Gabriel and what does she do she releases her will and she surrenders to。
God's Gabriel's announcement is what we would call a watershed moment or a。
turning point in her life she's never gonna be the same after this it marks a。
pivot a change in the trajectory of her life she may have been heading in one。
direction before and now forever after her life's gonna be totally different。
she's going in a different direction and she knows that she understands that and。
she says that's okay I'm gonna submit to what God is doing in this moment and I'm。
gonna say God let my life be what you want may it be to me according to your。
word she surrenders to what God is doing and so that's something that we need to。
live out in our lives as followers of Jesus we need to be willing to submit。
and to surrender to what God is doing to God's truth obviously that's a difficult。
thing submission is a scary word for us just hearing that word is scary because。
it means a loss of control it means a loss of what I want my priorities and。
objectives and so I want to remind us that as we apply that in our lives what。
Mary was doing what God calls us to do is to submit to God's Word and submit to。
God's truth we're not simply submitting for the sake of submission and that's。
one of the reasons that word is so scary for us in our culture a lot of times we。
say well I've seen people who have submitted to the wrong thing and then。
they've end up being harmed or abused by that posture of submission right that。
causes us to be very wary of the concept of submission and that's true and we are。
to be wise and discerning because we're not to submit to everything we're。
actually supposed to resist evil remember James 4 7 submit yourselves。
therefore to God and resist the devil and he will flee from you so there's a。
lot of evil and injustice in our world that we are not supposed to submit to。
we're actually supposed to resist but the thing that we are to submit to is to。
God's truth and to what God has to say about our lives and that's something。
that if we will submit to it it is good and beautiful and right for us to submit。
to God and if we think about that for a moment it actually makes sense right。
because if God is who he says he is if he knows everything and he knows。
everything about our life and our heart and our future and if he's also who he。
says he is that he is perfectly good and loving then it makes a lot of sense to。
submit to his plan to say God here's what I would like to do here's how I see。
this working out in my future but I'm gonna trust that you have a better plan。
than I do I'm gonna trust that you know more than me I'm gonna trust that your。
desire for my heart is better even than my own desire for my heart and I'm gonna。
submit to you it's actually a good and beautiful and right thing for us to。
submit to God because he is the definition of good and his will is the。
definition of right and his expressions are the definition of beauty and so if。
we will submit to what he's doing then we will experience those things in our。
life that goodness that righteousness that beauty but we need to be clear on。
that when we're looking for that posture of submission where are we submitting。
we're submitting to God to what he's saying Mary was right to submit to。
Gabriel because Gabriel was communicating God's truth to her and。
then what comes out of that what fruit is produced in our lives when we begin。
to submit to God the outcome is that God has been able to work his good and。
beautiful and right plan in our lives for his glory and for our good Mary's。
submission meant that she was able to play this part in God's grand redemptive。
narrative of every human that was going to be saved through Jesus now that's a。
beautiful and mind-boggling thing right we think about all of the people from。
every tongue tribe and nation throughout all the generations of the earth that。
have come to relationship with God through Jesus Christ and through his。
sacrifice on the cross and through the redemption that Jesus brought and Mary。
got to be a part of that story if she had not submitted and surrendered to God。
she would not have been a part of that story now obviously in that moment it。
may not have felt great to her to say I'm gonna give up all of my plans and my。
dreams and my desires my ambitions and and obey God and she probably had some。
some conflict within her some second thoughts but because she did that she。
got to be a part of something that was beautiful and amazing and so far beyond。
herself and that's true for us as well it's not easy to surrender to what God。
is doing in our lives sometimes it can be difficult to submit but as we do that。
we get to be a part of something that's good and beautiful and way bigger than。
us and one of the things that's clear in scripture is that God always works。
always for his glory and for our good anything that God allows in to our life。
is only there because it's either gonna glorify him and make his name great and。
cause people to see him for who he is or it's gonna be good for us maybe not good。
in the way that we imagine when we think about what's good for us we think。
comfort blessing success you know material things that's what we think。
right sometimes I think God says hey you know what's good for you at times is。
adversity and challenge because that brings growth or to go through something。
difficult because you're gonna learn a lesson you wouldn't learn any other way。
but we can trust that God's always at work for our good even if it doesn't。
feel great in that moment and that's the fruit that was produced in Mary's life。
that's the fruit that will be produced in our life if we have that posture of。
submission to God God's glory will be evident in our life God will be。
glorified and God's plan will be at work in our life and we'll get to see God's。
good plan for us and for those around us the other thing we see here is that this。
posture of unseen service is a posture of the background vocalists throughout。
the rest of the Gospels Mary kind of fades from our view that she's there in。
different places she reappears briefly when she and Joseph take Jesus to。
present him to the Lord at the temple that's in Luke chapter 2 when her and。
Joseph are looking for Jesus when they leave Jerusalem after the past Passover。
that's later in Luke chapter 2 she's there at the wedding in Cana that's in。
John chapter 2 she was certainly there when Jesus was rejected at Nazareth。
that's in multiple Gospels Matthew 13 is where it's at in Matthew she's visiting。
Jesus during his ministry that's recorded in Luke 8 and also in the other。
Gospels and John 19 tells us that she was at the cross when Jesus was。
crucified so she's there she obviously was a true believer in what Jesus was。
doing and she was following him she was a follower but we don't see much of her。
her story really fades she fades into the background just like a background。
vocalist if you ever see a singing group or maybe you see some a favorite musician。
or artist on TV that you really enjoy most of especially on TV but even at a。
concert if there's screens that are showing them most of the shots are of。
the artist right the main person that's mostly you're gonna see and occasionally。
you'll see the background vocalist standing off to the side and they're。
usually you know snapping and dancing sometimes doing their thing but you just。
see them for like a half second and then it goes back to the main person right。
and that's the role that Mary took she had this posture of fading into the。
background now from a human perspective that doesn't seem fair right because we。
say well you know the main singer may be a great singer but the background。
singers they can sing great too why is it fair that we're always looking at the。
main singer and from a human perspective that's that's actually true none of us。
as humans should should necessarily be thrust into the limelight or celebrity。
that's that's not something that that God ordained for us because we're to。
love and respect one another we're all made in God's image so we're not to。
Center ourselves but when we think about Jesus it's different right because Jesus。
wasn't just another man even though he was fully human he was also the Son of。
God and he was also here to do something that was so much bigger than anyone。
could comprehend Jesus actually reminded Mary of this in the wedding at Cana in。
John chapter 2 verse 4 when Mary comes to him and she's saying Jesus my friends。
are having a wedding they ran out of wine like what can you do and Jesus says。
hey it's not the right time yet he reminds her hey I there's something。
bigger going on here now Jesus demonstrates his love and care for her。
and that he goes ahead and does the miracle it turns the water to wine but。
he was reminding her in in verse 4 of chapter 2 there that he's saying there's。
a bigger picture here that you don't see and that was true of Jesus he really was。
supposed to be centered because he was the Son of God and he had come to redeem。
the souls of humanity and so everyone else was supposed to be in the。
background his purpose was so much bigger than Mary or anyone else he was。
fulfilling God's redemptive plan and he was doing something for the good of all。
of us and Mary recognized this and she was content to fade into the background。
we see it there in verse 35 in verse 34 Mary says how will this be in verse 35。
angels answers her and says the Holy Spirit will come upon you in the power。
of the Most High will overshadow you God's power will overshadow you you will。
be you will fade you will recede it's what that language is communicating and。
we need to apply that in our lives we need to have that posture as well。
remember Jesus taught us to pray in the Lord's Prayer in Matthew chapter 6 verse。
10 he taught us to pray your kingdom come your will be done on earth as it is。
in heaven God made your purposes come to the。
forefront and may mine recede and fade John the Baptist said one of the John。
the Baptist said a lot of really profound stuff he didn't say there's not。
a lot recorded of what he said but it's all super profound but in John 330 we。
have this he said he must increase but I must decrease what a beautiful。
statement of what it means to be a disciple follower of Jesus is that Jesus。
gets bigger in people's view and I get smaller and Mary modeled that for us she。
faded into the background what about the fruit that comes out of that what fruit。
is produced when we fade into the background when we fade into the。
background God's narrative is centered what God is doing becomes the main focus。
of the people around us but here's the cool thing is that we still get to see。
what's happening and we get to watch it up close I had a friend in another state。
that worked in a big music venue for a long time from like the 70s to I remember。
having a conversation with him in the early 2000s he was telling me about this。
and he was talking about all the bands that came through the venue over the。
years and big-name bands that you know the biggest bands in North America would。
come through and he was there for all the shows but he wasn't in the audience。
he was on the stage now he was like a tech so he wasn't performing he was。
making sure everything else worked but he got to see every show from right up。
close and he got to see a different view than most people saw because he was。
backstage instead of in the audience and that's one of the perks of being in the。
background you're not visible but you get to be a part of something from a。
perspective that no one else sees and if you're willing to be in the background。
of God's work in your life yeah no one's gonna be showering you with praise and。
and your service to God might be unseen and unrecognized but you will get to see。
some miracles up close you'll get to see some amazing things happen from just a。
few feet away I can't even imagine what that was like for Mary for the disciples。
for the other followers of Jesus to see the things that Jesus did right there up。
close firsthand it's why their lives were radically transformed right because。
for them it wasn't something abstract it wasn't a story they heard from someone。
else they saw people get healed they saw dead people raised to life with their。
own eyes they were right there for it and that's one of the beautiful things。
about being willing to fade into the background as you get to be a part of。
that and this is true as a parent it's true for moms it's true for dads if you。
try to make it about yourself and center yourself in your kids life and what's。
going on you're gonna create all types of problems but if you'll fade into the。
background and say I'm gonna love this young person I'm gonna help them to。
follow Jesus I'm going to help them to walk into what God has for them you'll。
get to see some really neat things happen you'll be a firsthand witness to。
those things it's true in disciple making if you're trying to help someone。
else follow Jesus and you make it all about you and you're trying to。
communicate all the things that you know and you are really trying to make that。
person follow you they're gonna be an unhealthy disciple but if you can fade。
into the background and help them learn to follow Jesus and you come alongside。
them and support them and encourage them and continually point them towards。
Christ you're gonna see a miracle of transformation in their life it's true。
when you think about praying for someone else interceding on someone else's。
behalf you're gonna pray stuff for someone if you love someone you say I'm。
gonna pray for this person you're gonna pray things they're never gonna know。
about and no one else is ever gonna know about no one's gonna know that you were。
praying for for them to come to know Jesus or that you were praying for them。
to experience blessing in their life or you were praying for them to be healed。
in some way they may never know no one else may ever know but when God answers。
that prayer you see the miracle and you get to see it up close because you were。
willing to be in the background and it's true in all forms of unseen service that。
honors God it's not easy to do something obscure that no one is noticing and to。
do it without being acknowledged and without being thanked but one of the。
beautiful rewards is that you'll get to see God do some powerful things and。
you'll see them up close and then we see here that Mary her unseen service this。
is a posture of trust and that's what we've got to learn if we're gonna be。
willing to serve God in a way that doesn't center ourselves it's not about。
us that's not focused on me then we've got to trust that God's Word God's truth。
God's way is best we see that here in her story verse 29 says but she was。
greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern what sort of greediness。
might be verse 30 and the angel said to her do not be afraid Mary for you have。
found favor with God Gabriel comes and he begins to explain God's truth to her。
and her initial reaction is fear she's saying I don't get it this is terrifying。
I'm seeing an angel she's totally afraid but what happens by the time we come。
down to verse 37 and verse 38 Gabriel in verse 37 says for nothing will be。
impossible with God Gabriel saying hey I know you're scared he even says that in。
verse 30 do not be afraid for you found favor with God then he gives her the。
message and then at the end he says I know this is tough to believe but。
nothing's impossible with God God can do this and then verse 38 what does she say。
she says I'm the servant of the Lord let it be to me according to your word she's。
saying okay I'll I'll believe you I'll go with it I'll obey we go through that。
same process in our life too right when we initially encounter God's truth。
God's Word it challenges us sometimes it scares us right and we say God how could。
that happen how could that be possible just like Mary was saying this is there's。
no way and I could I could have a child I'm not even married I've never been。
with a man and there's no way that that child could be the Son of God in the。
side it's not even possible and God may bring you to a place in your life where。
he's he's asking you to do something and you said this is not possible you say。
God you don't understand it's not possible for me to talk to that person。
at work about Jesus like I don't know how to do that I'm not good at that。
stuff and that person doesn't even really like me so it's not even。
possible say God it's not possible for me to find time in my week to serve you。
or to connect with this other person I know you've put that on my heart but。
it's just not possible I don't have the time God it's not possible for me to use。
my gifts in church or somewhere else to honor you because you know I'm I'm。
really shy and I'm uncomfortable doing that God it's not possible for me to。
make a big move in my life even though I know this is something that you're。
putting in front of me it's scary we all come to to God's truth and are。
challenged and frightened by at different points in our life just like。
Mary was but what bridges the gap for us is we have to trust God that's what。
Mary did it's not that between verse 30 and verse 38 she understood the whole。
process because she did she didn't say okay now I get it it all makes sense。
yeah no she still doesn't understand how it's gonna work because Gabriel told her。
she was gonna have a child a super that was gonna be supernaturally placed in。
her body and so she's saying I still don't understand any of this so verse。
38 is an expression of trust not an expression of oh I get it now I can go。
for it I'm comfortable with it she's not saying that she's saying okay I trust。
you it's a posture of trust and that's true for us as well we need to trust。
what are we trusting in we're trusting in God we're trusting in his love for us。
and his goodness as I said earlier God's only gonna allow things in our。
lives that are for our ultimate good because they bring him glory and because。
they're at work to benefit us even if we don't see the benefit in in the moment。
of those circumstances now that's hard to believe sometimes because we go。
through stuff we say I don't see any way this could be for my good so we bridge。
that gap with trust say God doesn't feel good doesn't look good doesn't smell。
good right now but I'm gonna trust you that this is good that you're at work。
that you still love me that you're still good and that what you're doing in my。
life it's gonna bring you glory and it's gonna be best for me and when we are。
able to do that when we're able to trust in God's love we have peace that even。
our unseen service is valuable that's one of the tough things about unseen。
service it's one of the tough things about serving God and obeying in a way。
that no one sees because if you do something and everybody in the room says。
you did a great job and we're so grateful you did it you already feel。
great about that you you don't ever ask yourself well did I do a good job。
because you just heard affirmation from everybody right when you do something。
especially when you pour your heart into it you say I really want to honor God。
with this choice or with this ministry or I want to honor God by the way I'm。
caring for this person in my life and you pour your heart into it you do it。
with all that you have and you use all the creativity and the wisdom and the。
energy you have to do that and then you walk away and no one says anything no。
one says thanks no one says good job no one says that was a blessing to me then。
you do have those questions Wow was that just a waste of time why did I even do。
that why am I even here what what's the purpose of this but if we're trusting。
in God's love we have the peace that says yeah that that service was valuable。
even if it was unseen because God loves me he loves the people in my life he。
wouldn't call me to do this and pour my heart into it unless it mattered to him。
and if it matters to him that's all I need whether he uses in a big way or。
small way that's all I need and when we trust in God we see that God uses that。
unseen service in a way that's beyond what we can see or imagine Mary is a。
background figure in the story of Jesus but she's not forgotten she's not。
invisible here we are talking about her life 2,000 years later so her role was。
important she got to play that part in the grand narrative of redemption that。
we were talking about earlier I'm sure she had no idea in verse 38 when she。
said okay God let it be to me according to your will she had no idea what that。
meant she had no idea that Jesus was the Messiah she had no idea that God was。
going to use Jesus to bring people from every tribe and tongue and nation into。
relationship with him and to give them a pathway to heaven she had no idea that。
we would be sitting here today because of Jesus there's no way she could have。
imagined that but she obeyed she surrendered she trusted and that's true。
for us too especially in those areas of unseen service we have no idea how God。
wants to use that we have no idea the ripples that will go out from that or。
how God can use that to change someone else's life or to change someone else's。
life who is two or three people removed from the person in front of us that。
we're struggling to love and so when we have that posture of trust and we say。
God I'm trusting you that your work is going forward that you're loving me that。
you're even in a difficult situation that you're doing this for my good and。
for your glory God can do something huge out of that so much bigger than we'll。
ever know so that's my desire and prayer for us today now unseen services it's。
not easy it's not easy to be a mom wasn't easy for Mary to play the role。
that she played it's not easy for any of us to serve God and in an obscure。
anonymous way and honestly if you don't know Jesus it's impossible if you don't。
have relationship with God there's really no way you can truly love and。
serve someone else in the way that you should without getting some type of。
reward or getting something back so if you're sitting here today and you say。
this makes no sense to me it's impossible understand that you have to。
have relationship with God through Jesus Christ that's why Jesus came to the。
earth it's because we're all sinners were all broken and he through his life。
and then his death satisfied God's justice and God's holiness so that we。
could have relationship with God if you're gonna try to love someone else。
this way without relationship to God it's not gonna work but if you do have。
relationship to God then God wants you to love and serve others in this way。
it's not easy but we're all called to it it can be painful at times it can mean。
pouring ourselves out pouring out our energy our resources our gifts in。
anonymity and no one might see it no one notices all that we're giving but if。
it's done in obedience to God and that's the the motive of our heart if we do。
these things if we have a posture of submission and surrender if we have a。
posture of fading into the background if we have a posture of trust then God can。
use it in an amazing and powerful way and that's what I want to encourage us。
with today I want to salute and commend all of the moms who who model this for。
us and who do it so well day in and day out I want to commend this example that。
we have in Mary and I want to challenge myself and all of us to live into this。
to be obedient to God even when no one's watching to do it for him to surrender。
submit to his will to let ourselves not be centered or platform but to fade into。
the background and then to trust that he's going to do something with it let's。
pray God we thank you for this example we thank you for moms that give us this。
example God I pray that we would be grateful and gracious today as we。
connect with our moms and just encourage them and express gratitude for for the。
way that they loved us but God I pray that you would help us to grow in this。
every one of us help us to grow in serving you obedience to you surrender。
being willing to to fade and let you be the forefront of our lives God help us。
to grow and trusting you help us to be beautiful unseen reflections of who you。
are so that the world can see you and so the people can be drawn to that and be。
saved in Jesus name amen。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
