Hey brothers and sisters, good to see you guys again.。
Especially the college adults,。
it's good to see you guys back.。
Oh yeah, I have been cutting my hair for the last two years。
and I kinda messed it up, so I gotta start over again.。
Yeah, so I did save a lot, but I appreciate it.。
Let's bow our heads, let's get ready for God's message.。
Father, we thank you。
that you are the everlasting God,。
that you have so much。
that you probably need to take care of, Lord.。
But yet, you would spend Sunday,。
a day that you command us,。
where we need to pay attention to you, Father.。
Lord, it's for our own good and it's for your glory, Lord.。
And we pray that everyone here,。
may your spirit be with us,。
may you open our hearts, Lord, to receive your message.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
Well, a couple of time ago,。
I probably told you guys that I had a family feud。
between my uncles, you know, who, over some inheritance,。
it's not like 100 million or anything,。
it's like, it's like child change, you know.。
Because of my grandmother died, you know.。
It's feel like these relationships are broken right now,。
because of greed and pride.。
They're still not on talking terms as of now,。
as I know.。
But I just want you guys to think about the church.。
How are relationships broken or strained in the church?。
Think about that.。
What caused these broken relationships?。
What caused these strains?。
Well, I can tell you, I mean, based on my experience,。
probably a lot of you guys have been through it too.。
A lot of things could be like gossiping, you know,。
being arrogant, being prideful of yourself,。
or even it could get to a point like being unable。
to share power between the leaders and the congregants,。
right, how things should be done.。
These could cause a lot of disunity.。
But the reality is that, as we are in the fallen world,。
I mean, the way how we do things,。
I mean, a lot of times it leads to our,。
I mean, prideful arrogance, which leads to sin, you know,。
which cause friction among the body of Christ.。
That God, I mean, that God,。
he did everything he could to establish this church,。
this body.。
Therefore, do we just accept the way it is?。
Well, the world is broken, right, it's fallen.。
The way how we act, is this the way we should accept。
this reality?。
Absolutely not.。
Because God expects more of us than this.。
So today, I want to。
talk about the relationship in the church.。
How do we conduct ourselves?。
In the past semesters, I talked about how did Jesus Christ。
establish this church, right?。
How, at the end, we have to be united。
and be mature inside the church,。
but how do we relate to each other?。
Today, I want to talk about that.。
(papers rustling)。
This is the thought, yeah, how we conduct ourselves.。
Okay, the first point I want to talk about is like,。
do not give the devil a foothold.。
Do not give him a stronghold in your life.。
So, starting on Ephesians chapter four, verse 25 to 28,。
it says, "Therefore, each of you must put off falsehood。
"and speak truthfully to your neighbors.。
"For we are a member of one body.。
"In your anger, do not sin.。
"Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry.。
"And do not give the devil a foothold.。
"Anyone who has been stealing must steal no longer,。
"but must work together, do something useful。
"with their own hand, that they may have something。
"to share with those in need."。
Now, right here, Paul starts with,。
"Therefore," that means there's a relationship。
from a previous passage to this one right here.。
Yes, the previous passage, which is chapter four,。
verse 17 to 24, talks about the general principle。
of the difference between the old man,。
which is your old identity, your pagan identity,。
comparing it to the new identity, which is in Christ.。
So, it's a very general comparison, telling us。
we must put on our new man, our new person,。
get rid of the old person.。
Right here, Paul is giving us some specific guidelines。
of how we should conduct ourselves among brothers。
and sisters in the church.。
So, let's take a look at this.。
Here, Paul gives a list of actually,。
a list of vice and virtues, of what we shouldn't do。
and what we should do.。
So, virtues are things that kinda like unite us,。
and in contrast, vice are things that disrupt。
the unity of the community.。
So, the first thing that you see in verse 25。
is basically, it says, you gotta put off falsehood.。
The first vice is lying.。
This is the mark of the old person,。
which is corrupted by sin.。
But, Paul says, this is not enough.。
We can't just stop lying.。
You have to replace it with a virtue,。
and that virtue right here is that we must speak truthfully.。
But, why?。
I mean, the motivation is that because we,。
as the second part, it says, we are all members of one body.。
We are part of the body of Christ.。
We have to put on this new person here.。
So, besides that, speaking the truth to each other。
is also a direct quote that Paul uses from Zacharias.。
It's a old, Zacharia, the book of Zacharia。
is a Old Testament book.。
It talks about what God's promised about the new Jerusalem.。
So, these are, this is what happened.。
During that time, they were allowed to come back。
during the Persian Empire.。
They have been exiled for 70 years.。
They came back, and God's telling them,。
you guys will inherit Jerusalem again, right?。
Since Paul is using this quote here,。
it seems like he's talking to us.。
We're the recipient of that promise.。
And, these are the promises that the prophets。
and apostles are making known to us right now.。
I mean, us in terms of what I'm talking in their context。
to the first generation Christians。
that no one knows until they reveal it to them right now.。
So, it is significant for us.。
It's just that we are the recipients of this.。
We have to behave accordingly to who we are.。
Therefore, speaking the truth is a sign of this new person。
because God is truthful.。
As we move on to verse 26,。
the second thing is sinning in your anger.。
That's the thing Paul wants us not to do.。
We should stop sinning when we're angry.。
Paul is also quoting, actually, from Psalms 4.。
You know, he's quoting about Psalms David wrote,。
claiming that he is being slandered。
because of crimes that he did not commit.。
He is sure of that.。
Therefore, what does he do?。
He cries out to the Lord,。
and his anger turned to joy and peace.。
Now, this peace and joy,。
despite the situation you're in,。
is a mark of a new person.。
Now, as we continue to take a look,。
it seems like anger, seems like it's permitted.。
So, is anger in general okay, we're asking?。
Well, I would tell you being angry for the wrong reason,。
of course, is obviously not right.。
However, can we be angry for a righteous cause?。
Like, if you see oppression,。
or you see injustice, of course we can.。
There's such thing as a righteous anger, right?。
God has righteous angers.。
But I could tell you, rarely our angers are righteous.。
Even if it is, do not let it boil.。
So, because as the second part says, right,。
do not give the devil a foothold, right?。
Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry.。
So, you gotta get rid of it quickly.。
So, because our natural,。
we still have our old person within us, you know?。
It's suddenly kinda like, let us feel like,。
oh, whatever we always experience, our anger,。
must be righteous, but other people's anger。
is always like a tantra, bad temper, right?。
So, they must be wrong, I must be right.。
But I'm telling you guys, brothers and sisters,。
better assume the worst in us.。
When you have anger, I mean, better assume。
it might mostly not be righteous,。
because it could be damaging to relationship.。
Let me give you an example.。
For me and my son, right, I told you guys,。
I mean, my son is here, but you know.。
During this time, I feel like he's in a terrible three,。
right, whatever I tell him to do, he does not do.。
If I tell him not to do it, he will do it.。
Even when I feel like I have to talk to him,。
I yell at him, whatever, I feel like I'm right.。
But in the heated moment, I could tell you,。
my discipline will not be the best,。
because I'm very emotional at the time.。
Like, it's quite personal, right?。
Let's talk a little bit about more。
that we could relate to the body of Christ.。
Like, I remember, not remember,。
it's still happening right now, right?。
The last couple years in Hong Kong,。
there's some social unrest, right?。
I'm not talking about commenting。
on anything political right here,。
but more of like, during that unrest,。
during these couple years,。
I mainly look at how we respond as Christians, right?。
Especially, they kinda, what I saw,。
is that there became two factions, right?。
One has a different, has one viewpoint,。
the other has a different viewpoint.。
The thing is that, what I saw is that,。
despite that emotion, that anger,。
at the end, they were at each other's throat,。
and they did not talk to each other, right?。
I even see that from some of my own brothers and sisters,。
and man, that was tough to see.。
What I'm trying to tell you is that,。
even with the best intention,。
our emotion will cloud our judgment.。
So, as I said, if you continue to look at verse 27,。
it seems to suggest that anger is not caused by the devil,。
but Satan will use it against you。
to disrupt the body of Christ.。
But let's come back to this issue in a moment.。
Let's go to verse 28.。
The third vice is stealing,。
and the virtue is not just to not steal anymore,。
that's not enough, Paul is saying.。
We need to work in order to have something。
to share with others in our community,。
that's what he's saying.。
Instead of having something that you have negative,。
we just don't turn it to zero,。
we don't just neutralize it, as a Christian.。
A lot of things, we have to have a plus,。
from negative, not just a zero, but a plus.。
And right here, as you see the word work,。
in this context, it means to labor extremely hard。
to the point of fatigue.。
So we have to do our best with our abilities,。
with our mind, to work, so why?。
It says so we can have something to present to others,。
especially the ones in need.。
Why?。
Because we have to make contribution to the body of Christ,。
for the sisters.。
Now, this letter didn't address any specific problems。
towards the Ephesian church, mainly,。
but it's also a circulating letter.。
I mean, other churches will read this.。
These vice might be like a general practice。
that Christians, during that time,。
after they have been converted to the new person,。
they might continue to be engaging。
in some of these activities.。
I mean, stealing, along with other things,。
are probably still acceptable during that time.。
Why?。
They don't have social programs。
during that time in the Roman world.。
I mean, you have to make a living somehow, right?。
But the thing is that, what Paul is saying,。
but we have to get rid of those things.。
If you are gonna be a new person,。
you have to get rid of these things.。
These are not acceptable.。
Because these things are causing harm。
to brothers and sisters, right here.。
Now, let's get back to verse 27.。
This kind of summarizes the points right here.。
Giving a foothold, right?。
I could tell you, right,。
Satan do not want anyone to be Christians。
or to live in a Christian manner.。
It means when we give him a foothold,。
that means we do not reflect the new person.。
We do not reflect Christ-like behavior.。
Our lies, our angers, our stealing, you know.。
This is what the devil needs.。
He need you to do these things。
in order for him to infiltrate the church.。
I mean, one of the reasons why relationship is so difficult,。
because Satan attacks them.。
He wants to undermine what God has created.。
So, what in the world is really a foothold?。
Take a look.。
Imagining yourself being chased by a bad person,。
and you get to a point, you get to your house,。
and you close the door and shut 'em off.。
But no, this person is able to stick one foot in the door.。
And think about it, when his foot is here,。
you can't close that door completely.。
So, basically, this is what the devil is doing every time.。
When you can't close the door,。
he's able to come in, give you a whisper.。
Hey, do this, this is good, stealing is good.。
You're just doing a little stealing, it's okay.。
It's nothing, you're not gonna hurt anyone.。
He's continuing to influence your life right here。
with that foothold.。
So, in conclusion, brothers and sisters,。
we need to get rid of the devil's foothold。
at the church door.。
Therefore, we gotta produce these virtuous behavior。
that will serve others in the community.。
This is a practical step to continue。
to maintain this unity in Christ.。
The second point I wanna talk about。
is don't grieve the Holy Spirit,。
which consists of verse 29 to 32.。
Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouth,。
but only what is helpful for building others up。
according to their needs.。
That it may benefit those who listen,。
and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God,。
with whom you were seated for the day of redemption.。
Get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger,。
brawling and slander, along with every form of malice.。
Be kind and compassionate to one another,。
forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you.。
Now in the second point,。
after talking about these lies, these angers, these stuff,。
Paul seems to returning to the first topic of speech.。
The first topic of speech is speaking the truth in love.。
Here, Paul's telling us not to engage。
in unwholesome or harmful speech.。
But the thing is, our culture makes that a norm.。
It kinda infiltrates into our church.。
Think about it, here's some examples.。
I always see, especially with ones with a consumer mindset.。
Wow, our church, look at that nursery, man, it's so small.。
You know, I wish there was a slide in there.。
It would make the nursery way better.。
You know those Sunday school teachers?。
It's not passionate at all.。
If they were more passionate, we have better curriculums,。
I think my kid would join, so I can't come to church.。
Oh, my church doesn't have a coffee machine, you know?。
I can't get free coffee, man, that sucks.。
Or come on, we need some sofa here, you know?。
I mean, it's always consuming, like what we don't have,。
what we don't have, this or that, you know?。
This is that consumer mindset.。
Another thing is that, I would say, I don't know,。
I hear this a lot from the Chinese churches.。
If I have a problem with someone,。
I have a problem with person A right here,。
I will not talk to them,。
I cannot confront them directly.。
It's always like, hey, do you know what person A did to me?。
Hey, do you know what person A did to me?。
But it's never confronted, face to face, you know?。
You never resolve the problem.。
And one more thing I wanna say is that。
we always like to criticize our leaders and pastors.。
Only if the pastor could do this or that, right?。
Only if the pastor could preach better.。
Dude, I'm telling you guys,。
the pastor is just a human being like us, right?。
He has his talent, he has his shortfall also.。
I can't expect a Pastor Mark to do everything perfectly。
and everything good.。
That's why you guys are here.。
That's why you guys are here.。
The body of Christ gave you guys give, right?。
We all have some special gifts,。
so you can't expect the leaders and the pastor。
to do everything and you're just sitting here。
complaining this and that.。
Now, instead of engaging in these harmful speech,。
engage in helpful speech, right?。
Speech that is beneficial.。
We need to build up our community according to our needs.。
Well, I would say this is what we should do.。
We gotta think about how we speak to each other,。
especially how we cannot harm other with these speeches.。
Watch out for our tones, for our demeanor,。
so as we talk to each other, be wise and sensitive.。
Learn when and where is the right place。
to say what you want to say.。
How about encouraging each other?。
I feel like we as Asians, we like to criticize,。
but how about saying good job?。
I'm glad you did a good job, right?。
Nice try.。
We are all ever asked,。
hey, how are you guys doing these days?。
How are you guys doing emotionally, right?。
I mean, these are things we have to do more,。
something more positive to lift up our brothers and sisters。
with our speech.。
I mean, in this case, if we look at this context,。
verse 29 flows well with verse 28,。
because both of these verse。
is to seek the benefit of others.。
Verse 28 is to seek the benefit of others with our actions,。
and verse 29 is to seek the benefit of others。
with our speech.。
These are really essential things。
for the good and the growth of the church.。
As we are obedient to scriptures,。
the concern of the growth and the good for the church。
should be natural to every one of us。
who profess faith in Jesus Christ.。
So think about it.。
Next time you see someone getting baptized,。
are you happy for that person?。
You're happy because that person。
pledged obedience to Jesus Christ,。
and Satan's kingdom is crumbling.。
Are we happy when someone else is shining up here。
besides us?。
Are we happy when we see someone。
is maturing in their Christian life?。
We should be happy.。
These are natural for us.。
It should be natural for us.。
Let's move on to verse 30.。
Besides trying to maintain this unity,。
verse 30 also gives us another motivation。
to achieve that,。
which is to not grieve the Holy Spirit.。
We should not make the Holy Spirit sad or feel sorrow.。
Now, the Holy Spirit of God right here。
is a link to Isaiah, the book of Isaiah,。
in Old Testament, chapter 63, verse 10.。
I mean, right here, the Israelites are constantly sitting.。
Isaiah is a prophet, he's trying to tell them,。
you better come back to God,。
if not, bad things are gonna happen.。
So right here in this chapter,。
he's reminding the Israelites,。
how God saved you guys from the Egyptians。
and brought you into the wilderness,。
yet you guys are unfaithful.。
And God became their enemy and told them,。
you guys, this first generation of Israelites,。
will not enter the promised land.。
Hey, this same idea is applied to this verse。
of God's new people, the body of Christ.。
Hey, we have been sealed with the Holy Spirit.。
It's dwelling within us.。
We have been blessed with every blessing from Christ,。
and we are on to full redemption。
when all things are under the authority of Christ,。
when God bring that to one day.。
No, this taste, the taste of this glorious day,。
theoretically, should be seen in the church.。
It should be.。
But Satan is doing everything to undermine it.。
But guess what, brothers and sisters?。
It's useless.。
Yes, we seem to be stumbling back and forth, right?。
We probably seem to be losing a battle there and here, right?。
But we didn't lose the war.。
Because the Spirit is greater than the devil.。
For the things that we still behave like the old person,。
the devil's foothold will still be on us.。
That grieves the Holy Spirit.。
So we need to behave like the new person.。
Build up the church, and when we build up the church,。
it simultaneously tears down the devil's stronghold.。
Let's move on and continue to verse 31 and 32.。
The next two verses is a summary of the way。
we should live by not grieving the Holy Spirit.。
If you take a look at 31, it gives a broad list of vice.。
It's talking about bitterness, rage, and anger.。
These are very internal and personal.。
And from there, it goes to brawling and slander,。
to verbal and outward.。
And this results to every form of malice, of wickedness.。
But in turn, Paul is saying right here in verse 32,。
we should be kind, compassionate to one another,。
forgiving one another.。
And Paul is saying, the motivation is found, right,。
at the end of verse 32, just as in Christ God forgave you.。
So basically, this is the higher order of command,。
of encouragement, you know.。
God demonstrate forgiveness,。
so you must also demonstrate forgiveness.。
Paul is referring back to his theology。
of what God has done for us in the first three chapters。
of Ephesians.。
What Christ has done for us,。
what God is currently doing in our lives,。
then we should be motivated to live the right way.。
So, if we're not motivated, this is how it would look like,。
I would say, if we grieve the Spirit.。
You're in a relationship, a lot of us are couples,。
if you're not in, probably you will have an idea.。
Relationships are complicated.。
As I know a person who lives in the state,。
recently, the wife。
found out that he was committing pornography。
since whenever, you know.。
And the wife found out,。
he told the congregation and the leaders,。
and this person had to step down.。
I'm so glad the wife did that,。
because it made this person, this friend,。
came to his sense.。
He still feel like, it did not hurt anyone,。
but myself, it's okay.。
But it hurt his wife,。
and other people in the congregation。
once they found out,。
because he deceived others in the church.。
So, the wife is obviously mad.。
I would say the main emotion is sad.。
But the thing is that,。
the wife is still there,。
but the wife says,。
"I don't trust whatever you're saying right now."。
You know?。
So, at nine o'clock,。
the computer is gonna be on a password.。
And they have to go to counseling, right?。
The wife is really mad.。
If I could tell you one good thing。
that comes out of this, brothers and sisters,。
if the wife or the husband is still grieving,。
that means they're still in it, you know?。
They're still in this fight with you.。
If the Holy Spirit is still grieving,。
they're still in this fight.。
If one day your wife or your husband。
or your girlfriend or a boyfriend said,。
or they don't have any emotion,。
"Oh, I don't care.。
"I don't care about that person anymore."。
Then you worry.。
Then I'm gonna tell you,。
your relationship is over.。
Do you wanna get to that point?。
I don't think the Spirit will get to that point。
in terms of our theology that we know.。
But grieving God's Holy Spirit is just like that, right?。
Let's not get to that point, right?。
And the last part I wanna talk to you about,。
the last point is point three, is imitate God.。
This is actually the conclusion。
Paul uses to end this passage.。
Now, after he's giving us。
Roddy's specific points of we should not steal,。
lie, or anger, he sums up his main point right here.。
He says, "Follow God's example.。
"Therefore, as dearly loved children,。
"and walk in the way of love,。
"just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us。
"as a fragrant offering and sacrifice for God."。
As we identify as God's children,。
we are to walk in love, Paul is saying.。
And where's that motivation coming from?。
In verse two, it says,。
"Just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us。
"as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God."。
We are to do the same, we are to have the same attitude.。
We are to imitate God.。
We are to walk by love by displaying sacrificial love。
to others, to our brothers and sisters.。
But you're saying, you might be thinking,。
it sounds impossible, right?。
But I want you to remember two things,。
my brothers and sisters.。
Number one, the Spirit is within us.。
He will complete the sanctification work within us.。
Therefore, we could speak truthfully to each other.。
Therefore, we can quickly subdue our anger.。
Therefore, we can supply others。
with our work to supply their needs.。
I mean, these are a couple of important virtues。
that Paul is talking about to build up the church.。
But the general principle Paul is saying is that。
the Spirit is greater than the devil.。
We can overcome any other sins。
that prevent us from maintaining this unity in Christ.。
The second thing I want you guys to understand is that。
this is the expectation of a normal church.。
This is what a church should look like, Paul is saying.。
And God commands it.。
If God commands it, that means it's doable.。
And God will give you the resource to complete the job.。
Now think about a guy tearing down buildings.。
In 2004, during Hurricane Katrina,。
I had a chance to go down to New Orleans.。
My main job of ministry is to tear down houses。
because it was flooded and they need to tear down the walls.。
All I do is need a sledgehammer.。
It's not like rocket science.。
I never majored in any sort of engineering.。
I know how to break stuff.。
It's so easy to break stuff, right?。
We're so natural.。
Breaking things is so easy.。
I've been breaking stuff.。
I have a good timeline.。
I can break things and not get in trouble.。
All right, good.。
But think about building something.。
Building something, you really need to go to school for.。
You really need to know what you're doing.。
Your measurement has to be correct.。
Even if you layer these bricks,。
these bricks have to be very careful in building.。
Exactly what it is.。
Satan, stronghold in our lives,。
we could destroy things so easily.。
But maintaining this unity in the body of Christ is hard.。
It's really hard, brothers and sisters.。
But I want you to do one thing today.。
I want you to think about behavior that you could improve。
and do better to maintain the unity within the church.。
One thing, I can't tell you to do a million things.。
I mean, we have a lot of work, but work on one thing.。
What is one thing that you could do better。
to contribute to the church to maintain this unity?。
Hey, since we know we are God's children。
and we know what he did for us,。
we therefore live like a princess。
or a prince of the king of king.。
Live like your truthful identity, brothers and sisters.。
We have to choose to imitate God。
by walking in love towards each other,。
towards our fellow brothers and sisters in Christ。
with our speech and actions.。
So we could maintain this unity。
and at the same time be in a manifestation。
of what the glory of God would look like。
when the church operates normally.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we thank you.。
We thank you for the job of unity。
is already done through you.。
Thank you for giving us some specific instruction。
of how we can continue to maintain this unity, Lord.。
Father, as you gave us all the tools already,。
the spirit is within us.。
Help us continue to tear down。
those strongholds from the devil.。
Those footholds are very damaging, Lord.。
I pray nothing more, Lord,。
that we do not demonize our brothers and sisters。
for any other reasons, Lord,。
because our main identity is in Christ,。
not because I am a Chicagoan。
or I am from Hong Kong, I'm Chinese, or whatever.。
That's secondary.。
Our citizen in heaven is primary, Lord,。
and help us hold dear to that,。
knowing that we might have differences,。
but help us love each other.。
Help us have that sacrificial love, Lord,。
toward each other even though we might not have,。
we have different points of view, Lord.。
Help us walk like Jesus, Lord.。
Help us be like Jesus.。
We thank you for today and the message.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
