Well, it's really great to be here and as Pastor Mark said, I've known him for a while。
but some of you have not seen me before.。
I actually live in the northwest part of the city, but this is where I grew up, so it's。
like coming back to home.。
I also found out that I've reconnected with Mir, who I've met before, so it's nice to。
see her and realize that actually some of you are part of a group that's come to UV。
from another congregation and Jayuk is actually a former classmate of mine, so it's nice to。
have that multiple overlap that I realize.。
And I actually saw Jayuk before after moving back into the city from Trinity, where we。
were at seminary, and realized that his kids were going to the same school as our kids,。
and so it's nice to have just these multiple connections.。
When Pastor Mark asked me to preach today, I asked him what scenes or what books he might。
be covering so that I can maybe stay consistent with the message and maybe how I should cater。
what I was going to preach, and he wittingly replied that he had taught some things in。
Genesis before and then he's taught some things in Revelation, so pretty much anything in。
those books or in between is anything that I can choose from.。
So that left me with a lot of freedom and a lot of no direction, but I hope that what。
I chose today will be helpful and relevant.。
And the topic that I chose for today is actually something that we as Asians do not like to。
address very much, and it's the topic of, the softer topic of emotions.。
And some of you are already probably thinking, emotions, feelings, what good are those?。
Why talk about it?。
And I think in my younger years, I would probably be on your side as well.。
I would think how emotions and feelings were not really convenient and weren't really useful,。
and if anything, might be a liability in making decisions and just journeying through life.。
But I think that this is really colored by our Asian perspective, and we tend to focus。
on things that are just more practical and monetarily profitable.。
What I've come to discover over the years is this is actually rather unbiblical.。
This is not how we're meant to be.。
And emotions are very much part of how God designed us and how he wants us to be.。
He wants us to feel.。
And so the title of my message today is actually An Emotive Lord, because our God is emotive。
and expresses a range of emotions.。
We who are also created in his image are also meant to display the range of emotions that。
we see him express in the Bible.。
But because of our brokenness, we fall into elevating and prioritizing what is our cultural。
upbringing and what is our cultural lens, and that just affects how we live.。
We fall short of fully living out how God designed us to be and how we're meant to emotionally。
also express our faith.。
And I know that over the past several years, it's been a really hard time.。
The pandemic has taken a toll physically, mentally, spiritually, and emotionally on。
us.。
And people are really feeling very anxious, and they're feeling the fragility of life.。
And I actually observe this often through the teammates that I have, that I interact。
with in my work.。
I actually work at a startup as my full-time job, and my team is globally distributed across。
the world.。
And in my role, I actually do a lot of these one-on-one checkups with every person that。
I can on a, if not weekly basis, then a biweekly basis.。
And there's a particular teammate of mine that I had a conversation with recently.。
And these meetings are meant to be a pulse check to just check the general mood of people。
across the company to see how everyone's doing.。
And the conversation that I had is with my teammate, who is also a fellow believer.。
It was right after Easter, and I spent some time just kind of asking him how he is.。
And there's always some personal chit-chat that happens at the beginning of these conversations.。
And he told me that his Easter was relatively quiet and relatively somber.。
And the reason was because his parents had to abruptly actually leave and go see his。
maternal grandmother, because they had found out that she was on her deathbed.。
Fortunately, his mom and dad were able to actually make it in time to see his maternal。
grandmother before she passed.。
I offered my condolences, and I just really tried to care for him and ask how he was doing.。
And he said that he was close to his grandmother.。
He said that he has really fond memories of her and how he's helped to shape his own faith.。
And he started to shift into talking about how despite her passing, because of our faith,。
because of the hope that Jesus Christ provides, that he was hopeful about the situation.。
And this was all true, or this is all true.。
And especially with his grandmother passing over Easter, there is this idea that this。
wasn't the ultimate end, that there's a hope, there's an alternative for his grandmother。
beyond just the passing in this earthly world.。
And it certainly made what was more of a sad and morphal situation a little bit more hopeful。
with this idea in mind.。
However, despite not speaking about his feelings, I could really sense this greater level of。
grief and sadness that was emanating from him.。
And it was masked by this cover of hopefulness.。
I felt that he was unnaturally overlooking the grief and just trying to maintain a positive。
outlook and then trying to shift toward work.。
I think many of us would actually appreciate this approach, and some of us have probably。
adopted this approach in handling an experience of loss.。
But this conversation actually sat with me for a while, and I think it really disturbed。
me and it caused me to reflect upon my own experiences in the past and my own dealings。
with sadness.。
I recalled my memory of my grandfather, who was 93 when he passed.。
And a lot of people, when they found out, expressed their sympathies, which I was very。
thankful for.。
And my reply was usually, "Oh, you know, it's okay.。
He lived a long life."。
And this was the response that I provided people that came to me with their condolences.。
It helped me accept the situation, but it didn't really acknowledge my true feelings.。
And over time, I've come to believe that this isn't really a biblical approach.。
It's not really the way that God had intended for us to deal with situations like this.。
And so today's passage is actually from John 11, 1 to 44.。
You can't, I guess you can't see it.。
And I was planning on reading it, but then I decided that actually what's better is for。
me to kind of just paraphrase and summarize the passage and then kind of hone in on what。
I want to aim in on.。
And so John 11 tells a story of Lazarus's death and resurrection.。
In the beginning part, Jesus is in the wilderness, and Lazarus is sick in a different part of。
Israel, you know, in Bethany.。
And this is the village where Mary and Martha are from, who are sisters of Lazarus.。
The sisters sent word to Jesus and told him that the one he loves is sick.。
These three siblings are actually described as ones that Jesus loves.。
And so Jesus had a very special relationship with them.。
When he heard this, Jesus said that this sickness will not end in death, but it is for God's。
glory so that God's son may be glorified through it.。
Jesus doesn't leave right away, but he actually does the opposite.。
He actually waits even longer to make a move and to leave.。
He says to his disciples that Lazarus has fallen asleep and he will wake him up.。
And so his disciples thought that he meant that he fell into a natural sleep and that。
he'll get better.。
But then Jesus then has to correct him and say plainly that Lazarus is dead, but he intended。
for this to happen so that they may believe.。
And Thomas actually replies, "Oh, then let us all go so that we might die together."。
So I think they really missed the point, even though Jesus was correcting them.。
And so by the time that Jesus arrives in Bethany, Lazarus had already been dead and entombed。
for four days.。
And many Jews had come to Martha and Mary to mourn with him and to comfort them during。
this period of loss.。
When Jesus saw all these people weeping, it's described that he was deeply moved in spirit。
and troubled.。
And in verse 35 out of the 44 verses that we have here, Jesus wept.。
He's moved by the situation and then he goes on to ask for the stone to be rolled away。
from the tomb and cause Lazarus out, which he does, fully resurrected, looking like a。
mummy.。
Those around come to believe and Jesus and God are glorified in this situation.。
There are actually very many preachable lessons here.。
It's a very jam-packed passage.。
Jesus knowing Lazarus' condition deliberately delays his visit to Lazarus until way past。
his death to magnify the impact of the miracle he knew he was going to perform.。
Jesus shows his power to resurrect the dead in dramatic fashion as he calls folks to roll。
away this stone and signals his own resurrection through this story.。
So much can be impacted and applied to our lives about suffering, perseverance, and eventual。
deliverance, how God's timing is perfect for a reason even in suffering.。
But my focus is actually none of this.。
What I want to hone in on is verse 35.。
And this small part is in fact the easiestly memorized Bible verse in the whole of the。
Bible because it is the shortest Bible verse.。
It is verse 35, which is Jesus wept.。
And so now you can all tell Pastor Mark that you've memorized today's verse because it。
is so easy to remember.。
But there is something very profound in this two-word verse.。
It openly describes Jesus, who is fully divine and fully human, weeping.。
It isn't shown in a negative way.。
It shows a very human response of grief as completely acceptable.。
It doesn't dismiss it.。
It doesn't regard it as weakness.。
It doesn't try to cover it with something nice.。
It's shown as natural and completely embraced.。
Now remember that Jesus knows the greater plan.。
He knew Lazarus was going to die, but he also knew that Lazarus was going to be raised from。
the dead by him.。
With that in mind, many might wonder, "Well, why be sad at all?"。
Yet Jesus openly grieves.。
Maybe he grieved at the individual death of Lazarus, or maybe his grief comes from the。
idea that there will be so much death still until his resurrection and his second coming.。
But whatever the case is, we see here that he wept, that he was moved and troubled, and。
that he openly grieved.。
And there was nothing wrong with that.。
This act of Jesus affirms grief, sadness, and despair as appropriate responses and feelings。
that we should more readily embrace.。
Now, God really expresses a range of emotions as we see from Jesus.。
But sociologists say that it's common for people to perceive that God is like the fatherly。
figures in their lives.。
If God is caring, patient, and concerned, then children will believe God has those same characteristics.。
And the opposite holds true when a father, when an earthly father is harsh, judgmental,。
or absent.。
Fortunately for us, or unfortunately for us, a typical Asian dad is one characterized as。
a dutiful, hardworking provider, sometimes a bit emotionally distant, and one whom we。
might, who might be critical and hard to please.。
Emotionally available and accessible is not a usual description of Asian parents.。
This is important to recognize because this lens can shade our perception of how God the。
father is to us and how he's captured.。
We run the danger of projecting an idea of how God the father is through a worldly lens。
versus a biblical one.。
This has risks of stunting our spiritual maturity and can lend itself to unhealthy perceptions,。
especially of how God, of how we think God sees us, how we see ourselves, and how we。
think we think God wants us to act.。
When we perceive God the father through a traditional Asian parental profile, we can。
project him to be a figure that is harsh, unforgiving, demanding, and not easily satisfied.。
We may make him out to be emotionally distant and unconcerned and dismissive of our feelings。
and cause ourselves to undermine our own emotional health and situations.。
We need to remember that God expresses the emotions of righteous anger, judgment, and。
disappointment, but he also shows a positive range of emotions of concern, love, pride,。
and joy.。
These are expressions that Asians, Asian parents, have a hard time struggling to display.。
Our earthly relationships can really cloud how we see our relationship with God the father。
is.。
And we can dangerously misinterpret God being dismissive of our feelings and just focusing。
on our performance like our earthly parents do.。
We are a broken people and we need God.。
And we need to be mindful of how not to be trapped in this lie that he doesn't care about。
our emotions and our feelings.。
It's important to observe and know that God displays a range of emotions with very positive。
ones as well.。
There's delight, there's satisfaction, there's joy.。
And we need to be able to embrace these as well as display these ourselves.。
We can establish that God openly expresses a range of emotions.。
And knowing that, and knowing that we are made in the image of God, we must not restrict。
how we model a potential range of emotions.。
It's not enough that we acknowledge the negative emotions that we tend to avoid.。
We also have to embrace and express the positive ones thoroughly and toward ourselves.。
You can ask yourselves, do you receive compliments well?。
Do you feel successful?。
Do you feel valued?。
Or do you often feel that you're not good enough?。
And you feel like an imposter about to be found out by someone and revealing your true。
nature.。
Now, this is also very small.。
It's an emotional wheel.。
And it shows a large range of emotions from happy, sad, disgusted, angry, fearful, bad,。
surprised, from the center spanning out to just more descriptive ones of feeling isolated,。
victimized, horrified, furious, excluded, but also positively aroused, free, joyful,。
curious, successful, respected, valued.。
Just think about some of these for a while and see if you can actually articulate some。
of these or can actually say that you've expressed a range of these emotions.。
Coming from a background that is grounded in honor and shame, most of us probably inherently。
understand that we tend to be emotionally reserved, focused on gaining face, concentrated。
on our duties and responsibilities, are hard to please, and very critical of others as。
well as ourselves.。
And this whole sermon has actually been a difficult thing for me to prepare because。
I can't honestly say that I'm good at this.。
Emoting is something that doesn't come easily to me.。
And I remember when I was younger, I'm very expressive emotionally.。
But then over the years growing up, I've been conditioned to focus on what's proper and。
what I need to do in terms of my duty and focus on the family and focus on our collective。
group and to preserve face.。
It's been an even greater challenge for me as I've become a parent and how I've unwillingly。
transferred this behavior to my own children.。
And as much as I try to maintain a positive mindset over the years and be more expressive。
emotionally with my feelings, with my children, I find that I'm challenged by my past and。
I tend to revert back to just how I was raised.。
And some of you are parents here, are preparing to be parents.。
Before you become a parent, you think that you're going to prepare to be the most amazing。
parent the world has ever seen.。
And we study, we seek out advice, and we plan to be the greatest in the world to our kids.。
But the truth is that when the children actually come, it's chaos.。
And there's nothing that can prepare you.。
And you can study all you want, but it's just a different experience.。
And what happens is that what we plan on doing in terms of best practices just turns into。
just trying to survive one more day.。
And when that happens, all the stuff that you thought about, planned out, goes out the。
window and you revert back to your natural instincts.。
You parent how you were parented.。
And emotions for me are not given their proper attention.。
And what I see is my own children beginning to avoid expressing their feelings for fear。
of being dismissed.。
I don't sit with them and their emotions adequately enough.。
I don't hold space for them in their moments of hurt and sadness.。
And I don't offer praise as much as I should.。
I fall into this performance-oriented person that our culture has trained us to be.。
And even when we do something well, or even if we're the best at doing what we're doing,。
there's very little praise for us, right?。
One because that's what we were supposed to do, so why get any praise?。
Or the fear is that, well, if there's too much praise, we breed mediocrity.。
People get too used to it and that it doesn't really have the same level of strength that。
it's meant to have.。
I know someone who shared with her parents not too a while ago that she took some standardized。
tests and she rated in the 99th percentile.。
Her parents' immediate response was, "Well, why weren't you in the 100th percentile?"。
But she already, if you understand percentiles, being in the 99th percentile means that you're。
in the top 1%.。
But the immediate response was, "Why weren't you in the top 100?"。
Which you can't be.。
And the funny thing is that even though your parents don't praise you, what you see is。
that they actually brag about you in front of their friends, right?。
So they use your accomplishments and your performance as ammunition for those around。
them, but you get none of the credit.。
You get even more burdened because then you have to continuously deliver these expectations.。
As aspiring as Jeremy Lin was a number of years ago, I felt sorry for a whole generation。
that came after him.。
And I can imagine the countless conversations that were had of, "Well, not only did Jeremy。
Lin get into the NBA and is six feet plus tall, he also went to Harvard.。
What about you?"。
You know, I can already see the pain of all these children that had to face this reality.。
But more recently we had the Winter Olympics.。
And of course we know that the focal point for Asians was not the athletics, it was who?。
It was Aileen Gu.。
And I thought it was hard enough when Jeremy existed, but Aileen Gu just blows them out。
of the water, right?。
Here we have someone that is a multi-gold medalist in the Olympics, scored near perfect。
in her SATs, is going to Stanford, is a millionaire, is a model, reads, writes, and, you know,。
reads, writes, and speaks Chinese fluently, and then just add insult to injury, she can。
recite Chinese poetry from the Tang Dynasty, right?。
Like we are all condemned.。
This just makes it incredibly hard for everybody that comes now from the Chinese household.。
But this is why God is great.。
He doesn't care about this stuff.。
He loves us for not what we can do, but who we are, right?。
We need to embrace the idea that God expresses delight toward us versus persistently projecting。
this idea that God is a critical parent and just expects us to deliver and perform all。
the time.。
We need to feel loved ourselves.。
You know, in Matthew 3, 16 to 17, it says that as soon as Jesus was baptized, he went。
up out of the water.。
At that moment, heaven was open and he saw the spirit of God descending like a dove and。
rest on him.。
And a voice from heaven said, "This is my son, whom I love.。
With him, I am well pleased."。
God delights in his son for being faithful.。
Who here has heard their parents say to them that they delight in you?。
Who here as parents have shared that same expression to their children that you delight。
in your children?。
God wants us to be able to feel the good, like adoration, loyalty, love, desire, peace,。
success and joy, along with the negative that we feel.。
The Bible clearly captures the full range of emotions.。
The clearest comprehensive collection is in the 150 Psalms that we have in the Bible.。
It speaks of lament, fear, pain, hate, but peace, joy, contentment, love, and so on.。
The Song of Songs is a full love letter.。
And Revelation starts with a grim reality but turns into expected hope.。
We need to be able to cry when we feel despair and celebrate jubilantly when there are things。
worth being happy about.。
King David is seen trapped in some pretty dark moments in the Old Testament.。
But he's also shown to be depicted as someone that can shout for joy and dance like a fool。
in the streets.。
It's not enough for us to start expressing the feelings now.。
And we need to express the full range, but God also wants us to, sorry, to work deeply。
through our emotions.。
So we are meant to see God as one who expresses a range of emotions.。
And sorry that I kind of blasted through that.。
But God also encourages us to express the range of emotions ourselves.。
And then thirdly, God wants us to work deeply through our emotions.。
He encourages us to work through some of our older painful emotions.。
We're called to dig deep into our past at times to examine some of the harder things。
that we've been through.。
Studies have shown that there are real physical and mental effects resulting from undealt。
with suppressed and repressed emotions.。
Studies show that individuals who repress their emotions and suppress their body's。
immunity, making them more vulnerable to a variety of illnesses leading from the common。
cold to cancer.。
There are real effects from undealt with emotions, not just on the emotional level, but that。
physically manifest themselves in physical form in our bodies.。
And it's not that dealing with emotions is a nice to have, but it's closely interconnected。
with all that we are, all that we are, with our physical, mental, and spiritual well-being。
by design.。
And we have a responsibility to address them.。
Before Jesus was crucified, he predicted Peter would deny him three times before the rooster。
cried in the morning.。
But Peter boldly claimed that he would follow Jesus both to prison and to death.。
Now we know that this wasn't true because Peter indeed denied Jesus three times, and。
he was bitterly ashamed of himself for it.。
It's described in the Bible that he wept bitterly after the rooster crowed when he realized。
that Jesus' prediction came true.。
And Peter could have wrestled with this for the rest of his life.。
But what we see captured at the end of John is that Jesus works through these shameful。
and guilty feelings that traumatize Peter.。
After Jesus is resurrected and reappears to his disciples, he's captured at the end of。
the book of John, sitting Peter down over a meal of fish that they just caught.。
And this is the passage.。
They had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, "Simon, son of John, do you love me。
more than these?"。
"Yes, Lord," he said, "you know that I love you."。
Jesus said, "Feed my lambs."。
Again, Jesus said, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?"。
He answered, "Yes, Lord, you know that I love you."。
Jesus said, "Take care of my sheep."。
The third time he said to him, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?"。
Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, "Do you love me?"。
He said, "Lord, you know all things, you know that I love you."。
Jesus said, "Feed my sheep."。
We see Jesus here going deeper and deeper with Peter, probably because Peter was avoiding。
this.。
He doesn't explicitly bring up the denial that Peter did, but he asked him three times,。
almost in a way, redeeming the three denials that he had.。
Jesus actively works with Peter through his emotions to bring restoration, and over a。
meal that actually physically restores him as well.。
Those who serve in ministry are not exempt from this work.。
One of the requirements to graduate seminary for me was actually go through a number of。
counseling sessions.。
This was very important because we have to make sure that whatever potential painful。
memories, experiences, don't surface and put our future ministry at risk.。
And there are actually some churches that are really good about this that have a requirement。
for their pastors to just get counseling every so often to make sure that they're cared for。
and that they're addressing their emotional and mental health.。
When we go through periods of dismissed emotions that get suppressed and repressed, there are。
triggers that could derail us, that can surface in ways and at times that we don't expect.。
We are seeing a lot of the effects of isolation and depression amongst children, especially。
during these COVID times, and we have to be very mindful of the longer-term effects of。
this behavior.。
So I have a task for you.。
I want you to, and I'll leave this on here, I want you to look at this emotional wheel。
and pick an emotion here that is hard for you to express.。
And I want you to just kind of process it over this week, and if you can, by the end。
of next week, to find someone that you can trust to actually just talk about it and try。
to talk about it in a way that you haven't before.。
I challenge you to share it with someone that you can trust so that you can really, you。
know, exercise, take this exercise just really seriously.。
Well, Pastor Mark said that I could preach about anything from Genesis to Revelation,。
and the entire Bible captures the full range of emotions.。
So I think that I fulfilled my duty in spanning the whole of the Bible with emotions that。
span the whole of the Bible.。
And I just want to say that it's okay to not be okay.。
It's okay to not feel okay.。
And there's nothing wrong with that.。
And there's nothing wrong with feeling great as well.。
I think that sometimes being Asian, when we feel too positively, someone just wants to,。
you know, squash that.。
So it's okay to feel great when there's cause to celebrate and to be festive.。
God actually expects it.。
And God actually designed us to be that way.。
So we deny ourselves the fullness of how we're meant to live and how God created us when。
we restrict ourselves in this area of life.。
Embrace the way that the Lord has made you, understanding that it might be uncomfortable。
at times to work through some of the things that we like to avoid, especially because。
of our cultural conditioning.。
But don't allow our cultural lens, our upbringing, to shade the kingdom-centered perspective。
that God wants us to have.。
Be renewed through His Spirit.。
Have this fresh perspective.。
And don't let the worldly way that we've been brought up color the way that we're meant。
to understand the world from just a believer's perspective.。
Well, that's it for me.。
Let me just close in prayer.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for the way that you've created us and the ways that we。
sometimes don't like.。
But we understand that that is the way that we were designed.。
Help us here to really feel the way that you want us to feel.。
And where there are maybe painful memories, help us to also work through them, through。
your strength and through your support.。
Let us embrace the way that you designed us and feel love when we should feel loved, but。
also feel the yucky things when we are meant to feel them, and to not repress them or suppress。
them, but to openly grieve and to openly support those that are going through these periods。
of negative feelings.。
We praise you and we glorify your name.。
In your name we pray.。
