Thank you, Kelly.。
Thank you, Kelly.。
So the first few years after college,。
I attended a small group at my church at that time。
that was pretty multi-generation.。
And one of the things that I appreciate。
as an early 20-plus year or so in that group。
is that I got to hear about different parenting。
stories and experience within the group,。
from younger parents with little kids。
to older couples with adult children.。
And during my time in that group,。
one of the older ladies, who also。
happened to be the pastor's mom, she。
would always ask the group to pray。
for her other adult child who had left the church.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so those moments made me start。
to wonder, how is faith being passed down。
from one generation to another?。
Looking at my own family, I think。
we are blessed enough that me and all my siblings。
are still walking with the Lord as adults now.。
But how big of a role do parents play in this?。
And how much responsibility do adult children。
have when it comes to keeping their parents' faith?。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Today, we are going to continue with our series。
in the Book of Judges.。
And specifically, we are going to look。
at how each generation of Israel, after Joshua,。
they slowly loses their identity as God's chosen people。
and forsake the faith of their ancestor.。
Even though Israel was supposed to be a kingdom of priests。
and a holy nation for the Lord, they。
ended up becoming like the rest of the idolatrous nation。
around them.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So in my last sermon, we look at Judges 1,。
where the 12 tribes of Israel, they。
began to settle into their allotted territory。
in the promised land.。
And so their main task at this stage of the conquest。
was to drive out the remaining Canaanites who still live。
in the land in order to avoid their idol worship。
and also their moral corruption as Israel slowly。
settling into this land.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
However, as we see in Judges 1, Israel。
settled for half-hearted obedience,。
as they did not fully drive out all the Canaanites。
as the Lord has commanded them to.。
And even worse, they ended up making。
covenants with these Canaanites and worshipping their idols.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so if you recall from my last sermon,。
Judges begin with this sort of double introduction.。
The first introduction that we look at last time,。
it highlights Israel's incomplete and half-hearted。
conquest, where they failed to drive out the Canaanites.。
And so in other words, this is an assessment。
of Israel's military and political failure.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And the second introduction sections。
that we will be looking into today,。
it highlights Israel's incomplete and half-hearted。
faith.。
It gives us an overview of what is。
about to happen in this main section of the book.。
And it also introduces to the very important cycle。
of Israel's spiritual failure.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So this morning, we will dive into the second introduction。
section, and we will explore these questions together.。
What does enduring faith that lasts through generations。
requires of us?。
How do we keep ourselves from falling。
into the same situation as this judges' generations,。
where each generation after each generation,。
they just fall further and further away。
from the faith of their ancestors?。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so we will answer these questions from our passage。
today.。
And if you have your own Bible, you're。
welcome to go to Judges 2 and follow along.。
And so first, enduring faith requires us to remember.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so Judges 2, especially in verse 7,。
it restates the very important details。
about the generations before, that is the Joshua generation.。
They remain faithful and steadfast to the Lord.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
But when we come to verse 10, things actually。
take a pretty drastic turn.。
We learn that after the whole Joshua generation had。
been gathered to their ancestors,。
another generation grew up who did not know the Lord。
or remember the things he had done for Israel.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so to put it another way, they。
forgot who Yahweh is and what he had done for their ancestors.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And what is the result of their forgetfulness?。
We see this in the following three verses,。
so starting in 11.。
"Then the Israelites did evils in the eyes of the Lord。
and served the Baals.。
They pursued the Lord, the God of their ancestor,。
who had brought them out of Egypt.。
They followed and worshipped various gods。
of the peoples around them, and they aroused the Lord's anger.。
Because they pursued him and served Baal and Arcturus."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
It is a little hard to notice this。
in the English or the Mandarin translation,。
but in the original Hebrew manuscripts, after verse 10,。
all these action verbs in the next three verse stages。
comes one after another to show the degree of Israel's。
apostasy.。
"They did evils in the eyes of the Lord.。
They pursued the Lord.。
They followed other gods.。
They worshipped the gods of the people around them.。
They angered the Lord.。
Then again, they pursued the Lord。
and served Baal and Arcturus."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so forgetfulness comes with consequences.。
I remember when I went to get my US driver's license,。
and at that point, I had been driving back in Malaysia。
for three parts a year already.。
So I signed up for a driving test, and I went to the DMV.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And on that day, I was acing through the test.。
Vehicle check, done.。
Parallel part, done.。
Three-point turn, done.。
And then the proctor asked me to get on the street,。
and again, I cruised through it without any issues at all.。
And when we made our way back to the DMV after driving around,。
I was feeling pretty confident.。
And we came to this one last stop sign inside the DMV.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so you have to understand that in Malaysia,。
a stop sign is more like a suggestion.。
And so most drivers, they will slow down。
when they approach the stop signs.。
And if they don't see any pedestrians or any vehicles。
around, we will just continue on without coming to a full stop.。
And so when I came to this final stop sign inside the DMV,。
I forgot that I was in a driving test.。
I allowed my old instinct to take over,。
and I just blew straight past the stop sign.。
And immediately, the proctor turned at me。
and pointed at the stop sign.。
And at that moment, I knew I wasn't going to pass.。
And so I ended up having to go back,。
experience through all the hassles of DMV。
again after a few weeks, just to redo my exam.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so in the same way, spiritual forgetfulness。
also comes with serious implications for our faith.。
When we forgot what the Lord has done for us,。
when we forget his commands for us,。
when we forget his grace and his mercy in our lives,。
we slowly lose our faith and allow。
our old self and sinful nature to take over our lives again.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so how do we counter this sort of spiritual forgetfulness。
or spiritual dementia?。
It is by remembering.。
Remembering is a common practice for God's people。
all throughout the generations.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
For example, in the Old Testament,。
the Passover was being instituted。
as an annual festival in the Jewish calendar。
so that all generations of Israels that comes after,。
they can remember what the Lord has done for them。
in the first Passover in Exodus by delivering them。
from slavery in Egypt.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And when we come to the New Testament,。
we also find other examples as well.。
The early church, they partake in the Lord's Supper。
or communion as a remembrance of what Jesus。
has done for them at the cross.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And even today, believers all throughout the world。
partake in the sacraments of holy communion。
as well to remember the sacrifice of Jesus.。
And in fact, we just did that a few moments ago。
in our service.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And therefore, remembering is a spiritual discipline。
that we should all practice so that our faith can be lasting.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so what does enduring faith requires of us?。
First, it requires us to remember,。
to remember who God is and what He has done for us.。
And this is the first lesson that we can。
learn from Israel's history here.。
And secondly, enduring faith requires。
us to actively repent and turn from our own ways.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so let's pick up our passage again from verse 14.。
"In His anger against Israel, the Lord。
gave them into the hands of the raiders who plundered them.。
He sold them into the hands of the enemies all around whom。
they were no longer able to resist.。
And whenever Israel went out to fight,。
the hand of the Lord was against them to defeat them.。
Just as He has sworn to them, they were in great distress."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so when Israel abandoned the Lord and worshiped other idols,。
the Lord gave them into the hands of the oppressors,。
where Israel, they would suffer for a period of time.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And then in verse 16, "Then the Lord。
raised up judges who saved them out。
of the hands of these raiders.。
And yet they would not listen to their judges,。
but prostitute themselves to other gods and worship them.。
They quickly turned from the ways of their ancestor。
who had been obedient to the Lord's command."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so what happened here?。
"When Israel suffered under the hand of the oppressors。
and cried out to the Lord, the Lord。
would raise up judges to deliver them from their oppressions。
and sufferings."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And who are these judges?。
First, they are Israel's deliverer.。
But secondly, they also serve as a catalyst。
for godly living among the people of God.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
But this is a very important but.。
Israel's disobedience-- Israel's obedience。
did not last long at all.。
Look at verse 17 again.。
It says, "Yet they would not listen to their judges,。
but prostitute themselves to other gods and worship them.。
They quickly turned from the ways of their ancestor。
who had been obedient to the Lord's command."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And then in verse 18 and 19, again, we。
see the same pattern happening all over.。
"Whenever the Lord raised up a judge for them,。
he was with the judge and saved them。
out of the hands of their enemies,。
as long as the judge lived.。
For the Lord relented because of their groaning。
under those who oppressed and afflicted them.。
But when the judge died, the people。
returned to ways even more corrupt。
than those of their ancestors, following other gods。
and serving and worshiping them.。
They refused to give up their evil practice。
and stubborn ways."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so even though the Lord would raise up judges。
to deliver Israel from their oppressions,。
we learn that when the judge died,。
the people actually returned to ways even worse。
than their ancestors.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so think about it this way.。
The first time that you did something wrong,。
it makes sense for mercy and forgiveness。
to be shown right because of various reasons.。
It can be because of ignorance, or it was just an accident,。
and so on.。
But when you repeat the same sin over and over again。
and show no signs of remorse and repentance,。
it just becomes like a cancerous disease。
that slowly eats you away and corrupts your heart.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So this is what is happening to this judge's narration.。
Verse 19 ends with a summary on this corrupted generation,。
that they refused to give up their evil practice。
and stubborn ways.。
And because of the refusal to repent and turn。
from the evil ways, Israel just continues。
to spiral down into worse and worse apostasy.。
And this cycle of sinning, oppressions,。
crying out to the Lord, deliverance, peace,。
and then back to sinning again, it。
just keeps repeating itself with no end in sight.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so how do we avoid the downfall of Israel here?。
The answer is simple, but to actually lift it out。
actually requires a lot of intentionality on our end.。
We need to truly repent and turn from our evil ways.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And true repentance is not just a one-time event,。
but it is a day-to-day, moment-by-moment practice.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
One metaphor that I find helpful to think。
about this practice of repentance。
is spiritual breathing.。
As long as we are alive, we never stop breathing, right?。
And so this is the same when it comes to spiritual breathing.。
We exhale by confessing our sin, knowing。
that Jesus has already taken away our sins at the cross.。
We then inhale by surrendering to God,。
turning from our own ways and turning back to him。
as the ultimate authority of our lives.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so the more we are able to practice。
the spiritual discipline of repentance,。
and it becomes more nature to us,。
the more we are able to align our lives。
with the heart of God.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so this is the second lesson we can learn from Israel。
when it comes to keeping our faith,。
that it requires us to truly repent and turn。
from our evil ways constantly.。
If not, our heart will quickly become hardened,。
and we fall further and further away from the Lord.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And the third lesson that I want us to take away from our passage。
today is that enduring faith requires。
us to acknowledge our own insufficiency。
and our need for a savior.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so I know we have been taking lessons。
from Israel's failure here, but I。
want to speak up for them here for a little bit.。
A lot of time when we read scripture,。
we can be quick to label a certain characters。
or a group of people as just simply good or bad.。
But when in fact, there's a lot more complexity to it,。
and more often than not, we actually。
share the same tendency as these characters as well.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And when we look at this new generation of Israel。
after Joshua, all of them grew up。
wandering in the wilderness, right?。
This is the only way of living that they were familiar with.。
And so now that they have settled down。
into the promised land and own their own land,。
they had to pick up new skills in this new environment。
in order to survive, with agriculture being。
the primary mode of living here.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so this is where the appeal of worshipping Baals and Ash。
Torres comes in, because their Canaanite neighbors believe。
that these gods have the power to control rain, the storm,。
and fertility.。
And thus, they play an important role in an agrarian society.。
And so for this new generation of Israel,。
the way to survive in this new place。
is just to look around them and learn。
from their Canaanite neighbors, worshipping the storm and rain。
gods with the hope that these gods will also bless them。
and give them good crops.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so from their perspective, this。
is actually a completely logical move.。
And we should not be quick to judge them。
without understanding the challenge they。
face in order to survive.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Yet at the same time, we also have。
to acknowledge that the biggest issue here。
is that they choose human logic over trusting God,。
the same God who provided for them even in the wilderness。
and who will surely provide for them in the promised land。
as well.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so in other words, they think。
that they know how to survive in this new environment。
better than God, even though God has specifically。
commanded them time and time again。
to not make covenant with the Canaanites,。
or else they will be tempted to follow the detestable things。
they do in their idols' worship and sin against the Lord.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so as a result of their incomplete faith,。
we see that in verse 20, "Therefore, the Lord。
was very angry with Israel and said,。
because this nation has violated the covenant I。
ordain for their ancestor and has not listened to me,。
I will no longer drive out before them any of the nations。
Joshua left when he died.。
I will use them to test Israel and see。
whether they will keep the way of the Lord。
and walk in it as their ancestors did.。
The Lord had allowed those nations to remain.。
He did not drive them out at once by giving them。
to the hands of Joshua."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So this is the predicament that Israel found themselves in.。
As we look at the stories of all the judges。
in the rest of the book, none of them。
were able to put an end to the cycles of spiritual downfall。
and moral corruptions that Israel found themselves in.。
And this pattern of sin, oppression, crying out,。
deliverance, peace, and then back to sinning again,。
it just keeps on repeating itself.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And if you think you can find a happy ending by flipping。
to the end of the Book of Judges,。
you will actually find the complete opposite.。
In the last few chapters of Judges,。
Israel descends into utter chaos,。
and the book actually ends with this remark.。
"In those days, there was no kings in Israel.。
Everyone did what was right in their own eyes."。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So where is our hope in all of this?。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
I like how this scholar has put it.。
He says, "God's covenant with Israel as a contract。
is broken because of Israel's apostasy,。
that is, Israel's failure to hold out。
the ends of the obligation.。
But this covenant as a promise still stands,。
that is, God's promise to his people.。
What is needed for its fulfillment。
is an Israel which does not fail to keep its obligation.。
And in the New Testament terms, this fulfillment。
comes in Jesus, the Messiah, who is everything。
that Israel should have been but was not,。
the perfectly obedient Israel.。
And this is where our hope can be found.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so like the Israel who wandered in the wilderness。
for 40 years, Jesus spent 40 days and 40 nights。
in the wilderness, and he was being tempted by the Satan.。
And yet he did not sin.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And like Israel who receives the Torah from the Lord。
and that tells them how they ought。
to live as God's covenant people,。
and yet they fail to live up to it,。
Jesus himself is the Word of God who became flesh.。
And he shows us the true and better way。
of living by redefining what true and better righteousness。
means.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so where Israel fails, Jesus remains perfectly。
faithful and obedient.。
And that is why he is our ultimate hope.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And so this is our third and final lesson from Judges 2。
here.。
Enduring faith requires us to acknowledge our inability。
to save ourselves like the Israelites,。
and then also realizing that we need a Savior, that。
is Jesus himself.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And this is the first and the most important steps.。
Once we realize our own human depravity and our need。
for Jesus, we then repent and turn from our evil ways。
to follow the ways of Jesus, allowing。
this practice of repentance to become part of our daily lives.。
And as we walk through the rest of our faith journey,。
we also take the time to reflect on who God is。
and remember his gift of salvation, of grace。
and mercy in our life.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
So let's pray together.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Heavenly Father, as we enter into this season of Advent,。
we want to take some time to reflect and remember。
your gift of salvation.。
Thank you that you did not leave us in our own mess,。
but you sent your only son, Jesus,。
to die on the cross for us.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Jesus, you are Emmanuel, God with us.。
Thank you for being with us in our brokenness。
and our suffering.。
You are the founder and perfecter of our faith.。
And for the joy that lay before you,。
you endured the cross, despising its shame,。
and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And Holy Spirit, you are God within us.。
Thank you for dwelling in us and grant us the power。
to live a life of active repentance。
so that our faith is active and living.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
And in your most precious name, we pray.。
Amen.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
Amen.。
All right, thank you, Nhu-Vy.。
Thank you all for joining us.。
You are dismissed.。
So go in peace.。
You are loved.。
[SPEAKING CHINESE]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
(music)。
