All right, and yeah, this is the address.。
So let's welcome Pastor Mark.。
- Good morning, everyone.。
Good to see you all.。
And today we're gonna continue our series on healthy church.。
What does the Bible say about church being healthy?。
All right, so one big question in my mind。
is that maybe you should ask yourself,。
is that the longer you have been to church,。
the longer you have been the question,。
does it mean that you know what the church is all about?。
Yes or no?。
Maybe.。
Maybe not, right?。
The longer you have been a Christians for years,。
sometimes we have our own concept or our own preferences。
that creep into our understanding。
of what the church is all about.。
So this whole series,。
I hope that we have the desire。
to return to the Word of God,。
return to the Bible and see what God has to say。
about being a church, becoming a church.。
It's not about your preference.。
It's not about my preference,。
although that may be important,。
but that is not the most important thing.。
The most important thing is for us。
to go back to the Word of God.。
That is our final authority.。
That is our highest authority,。
what the church is all about.。
And as I said before, in this series,。
church is one of the most vital expressions。
of the kingdom of God.。
If God comes to reign, reign in us, reign in our lives.。
One of the most vital expression is the local church.。
So you may have heard my story,。
how I was called to ministry, to church ministry.。
Back then, I was in California years ago,。
and I was in my local church.。
And my local church was without a pastor。
and without leadership.。
And it was in the lack of the leadership,。
the lack of teaching, that the church,。
you know, suffered from time to time.。
So that's how God moved me to this path of ministry.。
Maybe I was praying that if God is calling me。
to the ministry, then I'm willing to answer the call,。
because I wanna be part of the movement。
to build up and strengthen the local churches.。
And I will think that if the local church is strong,。
then God's name will be glorified.。
On the other hand, if the local church is weak。
and sick and not very healthy,。
then God's name is gonna take a dent, right?。
That's why we need to go back to the word of God。
and see what the word of God,。
what the Bible has to say about being a church,。
especially the New Testament.。
As you know, there are many, many letters。
in the New Testament that talks about how to be a church。
and what the church should look like, all right?。
So let our understanding of the church continue。
to be aligned with the word of God, the final authority.。
All right, so as we do this series,。
sometimes I give you a pop quiz, all right?。
Since we have some students。
from the mighty Moody Bible Institute.。
So yeah, so I'm sure you don't mind, right?。
So I prepared some pop quiz questions。
and hopefully these questions will get us thinking。
about what the church is all about in the Bible, all right?。
So first question, are you ready?。
What are your neighbors?。
All right, there are some trick questions here, all right?。
So let's warm up, okay?。
Are you ready?。
First question, what are your neighbors?。
All right, how many letters did Paul write。
in the New Testament?。
Four, 13, or 27?。
All right, how many, how many?。
Think about it, talk to your neighbors.。
Talk to your neighbors.。
Hey, do you know?。
How many letters did Paul write in the New Testament?。
All right, how many?。
Okay, how many of you say four?。
How many of you say 13?。
All right, some hands here, okay.。
Looks like they're really good students.。
27, how, 27?。
All right, it's not 27.。
(laughing)。
Well, you know why, right?。
By the process of elimination, right?。
How many books in the New Testament?。
27, there's no way Paul wrote all of them, right?。
Come on, yeah, give it to some other authors, right?。
Yeah, Paul wrote 13 letters, right?。
Okay, you can find it from the table of content。
of your Bible, all right?。
So it's actually 13, all right?。
Second question, which of the following letters。
was not written by Paul, okay?。
Galatians, Ephesians, 1 and 2 Thessalonians,。
first letter of Paul, and Titus.。
Which one is not written by Paul?。
Which one is not written by Paul?。
Okay, how many of you say Galatians?。
- D. - D, right?。
Wait, but it's the first letter of Paul.。
You know, there's a first letter of John, you know that?。
It's written by John.。
And the second letter of John is written by?。
John, right, and the third epistle of John。
is written by?。
John, right?。
So what, no, no, so first letter of Paul。
is not in the Bible, okay?。
It's not in the Bible, it's not in anywhere else.。
So, all right, you got it?。
All right, these are easy questions, okay?。
Number three, all right?。
It's getting harder, getting harder.。
Ready?。
All right, the verse, "Love is patient, love is kind,。
"love is not jealous, not boastful, not proud,"。
can be found in which letter of Paul?。
How many of you say Galatians?。
It was a good saying, you know?。
It should be in the Bible, right?。
It should be in the Bible somewhere, right?。
How many of you say Galatians?。
How many of you say 2 Corinthians?。
1 Corinthians?。
All right, all right, it's 1 Corinthians, all right?。
1 Corinthians.。
This is an easy question, now it's a hard one, okay?。
Now it's a hard one.。
All right, ready?。
It's 1 Corinthians, the first letter written by Paul。
to the church in Corinth.。
It's 1 Corinthians, the first letter written by Paul。
to the church in Corinth.。
Okay, talk to your neighbors, talk to your neighbors.。
What do you think?。
Yes or no?。
How many of you say yes?。
First, it's 1 Corinthians, come on, guys.。
How many of you say yes?。
All right, some people are brave,。
and some of you say no.。
Then what did he write?。
Why is it called first?。
It's actually no.。
1 Corinthians is not the first letter。
he has ever written to the church in Corinth, no.。
Why, how do we know?。
From the letter of 1 Corinthians 5, 9,。
Paul said, when he was writing the letter to Corinth,。
after four chapters, 5, 9, he said,。
"When I wrote to you before,"。
before, so there's, I guess, Corinthians zero,。
right, beta, maybe, beta version,。
before what we call 1 Corinthians.。
So there are different letters Paul has written。
to churches in his time,。
and teaching them what the church should be like, right,。
correcting them, teaching them, and all that stuff.。
And what we have collect in our New Testament canon,。
the 27 books that we have in the New Testament,。
are just 27 of those.。
And you know, talking about Pauline letters,。
only 13 of those.。
So there are, there are maybe other different letters。
that Paul has sent to the church。
to teach them about doctrine,。
teach them about God, and teach them about church living.。
So this help us to think about。
what is the purpose of church letters?。
What is the purpose of the letters,。
after letters we found in the New Testament, 27 books,。
right, many of them are called epistles, letters.。
What is the purpose, and what are the purposes?。
It is actually for teaching and correcting,。
and addressing some of the issues, right?。
It's like your health report, you know?。
Anybody done a medical checkup lately?。
Huh?。
You're too young, right?。
Yeah. (audience laughing)。
I got my report, and the doctor warns me,。
you know, there are some food items。
you should not put in your mouth.。
Sugar, right?。
And you know, something you should not, you know,。
because, you know, my doctor said,。
you know, you, you, you, you, you,。
you know, you're not young anymore.。
You better watch out, right?。
So it's like a, it's like a medical report, right?。
So the church letters can be seen as a report。
of the church health,。
and Paul, one of the letters' author,。
is trying to correct some of the problems,。
and you know, let's dive into the letter。
of 1 Corinthians, and you can see。
that Paul is jumping from topic to another topic。
to address some of the questions.。
Now, the church letters can be called。
the occasional letters.。
Occasional letters meaning, being,。
that the letter is being written。
to respond to some of the issues or questions,。
especially in 1 Corinthians.。
As you can see, 7.1, regarding the questions。
you guys asked me in your letter.。
Hey, so there was an other letter sent by the Corinth,。
by the Corinthian Christians to Paul in the first place,。
and Paul is responding to some of their questions.。
So 7.1, 8.1, regarding the question。
about food offered to idols.。
You know, in their background,。
there's religious background, pagan temple,。
and all that stuff, and you go buy meat.。
The meat was already offered to the idols,。
so some of the people would not allow them。
to eat those meats because of conscience, right?。
They just don't feel comfortable, right?。
Kind of like some of us, we do have that background, right?。
I remember not too long ago,。
I received a call from a church member,。
and the church member asked me,。
because the Chinese Asian, pagan worship,。
and they have the chicken already offered to the idols,。
and then of course, after the idol is done with eating,。
and it's your turn to eat, right?。
It's your turn to eat.。
And the church member asked me。
whether I should eat that or not.。
What do you think?。
Should we eat it?。
Of course.。
If it's cooked well, if it's made well,。
of course I would take it, right?。
But because there's some conscience issues, right?。
Not feeling comfortable about partaking。
into that sort of ritual, and then so she has some concern.。
And these are some of the questions。
that the Corinthian Christians were asking Paul.。
11.2, Paul said, "You are following the teachings。
"I pass on to you, let me expand."。
So 11, chapter 11 is all about public worship,。
and then 11.17, yeah, 11.17.。
In the following instructions, Paul said,。
"I cannot praise you guys, for it sounds as if more harm。
"are being done than good in your public worship。
"when you meet together."。
So again, he's addressing some of the chaos。
that the Corinthian church was having.。
Again, it's a corrective measure.。
Paul is trying to correct them.。
12.1, now dear brothers and sisters,。
regarding the question, your question,。
about special abilities, or what we call spiritual gifts,。
that the Spirit gives us.。
So let me expand, let me teach you what it means.。
So for a few chapters, 12, 13, and 14,。
Paul is trying to address this issue,。
this question of special grace gifts, or spiritual gifts.。
And then 15.1, he talks about what he has preached to them,。
i.e., the doctrine, the belief of resurrection.。
So chapter 15 and on, Paul is talking about the doctrine。
of Christ, you know, raising from the dead, resurrection.。
So again, I want you to think with me。
that we need to return to the Word of God.。
This is, at the end of the day, this is what matters.。
It's not your preference or opinions。
about what church should look like,。
or whether I like this church,。
or like some aspect or dislike some aspect of the church.。
These are not important at the end of the day.。
The most important thing is the Word of God.。
So let's return to the Word of God.。
So today, as we go on to the series,。
let's take a look at the 12th chapter of 1 Corinthians.。
So he's talking about spiritual gifts or special abilities。
the Spirit has given the church,。
spiritual gifts or special ability of the Spirit.。
"I don't want you guys to misunderstand this,"。
Paul said, verse two.。
"You know that when you were still pagans,。
when you were worshipping the idols,。
no, the non-God, they don't exist,。
you were led astray and strapped along。
in worshipping speechless idols.。
Those are nothing.。
But you were worshipping the pagan idols,。
the Greco-Roman gods and deities.。
Those are speechless.。
They can't do anything, those idols.。
But now you're different," verse three.。
"So I want you to know that no one speaking。
by the Spirit of God will say, 'Jesus grants a curse.'。
And no one with the Spirit can say,。
no one can say, 'Jesus is Lord,'。
except by the Holy Spirit."。
Now, what Paul is saying is that if you're in Christ,。
if you believe the Lord Jesus Christ,。
and you're genuine, born-again Christian,。
you have accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior,。
your life has changed because the Spirit dwells within you.。
Now you have the life of the Spirit,。
and the life of the Spirit will enable you。
to say, "Jesus is Lord."。
And if you will have the Spirit,。
you would not say, "Jesus grants a curse."。
Now, that's my translation from the Greek,。
because there's no verb in those two words in Greek.。
No one speaking by the Spirit。
will say, "Jesus grants a curse."。
What does it mean?。
What does it mean?。
Now, remember, the Bible is not written to us, right?。
It's written for us.。
It's written to the first century Christians.。
Now, I explain a little bit the Corinthian Christians。
when before they came to Christ,。
they were in all sorts of pagan worship.。
That's why Paul said, "When you were still pagans,。
you worshiped idols."。
Now, in Corinth or in any other big cities of the day,。
people worship all kinds of false religions.。
And all the pagan religions have one common ground,。
one common element among all of the Greco-Roman religions。
is that people worship the idols。
because they want the idol to do something for them.。
People use religions to achieve their own purposes.。
So let's say you have a co-worker in your workplace,。
all right, you don't quite like the guy, all right?。
You know, in those days, in Paul's days,。
they go to the pagan temple, all right?。
You know, you talk to the pagan deity, the false deity,。
and say, "I don't like John, you know, I don't like John.。
Please grant a curse, okay?。
Please grant something, do something bad, okay?。
Maybe have him fired, right?。
So I have a better day, you know, to go through."。
So this is what you do.。
You go to the pagan temples。
because you use the name of the deity。
to achieve your own end, right?。
In some of the temples,。
actually we found curse tablets, you know, documents,。
you know, left behind by pagan worshippers.。
And some would say, "So-and-so God, grant a curse."。
Grant a curse to whom?。
Someone you don't like, right?。
Maybe you don't like mother-in-law。
and you ask for a curse, right?。
It's really bad.。
Maybe you don't like somebody, you know,。
or you just don't like it.。
You know, you see what was going on。
in the popular religion of the day?。
Is that you use religion for your own end,。
for your own purposes.。
And as you can imagine,。
some of those people from the pagan worship background,。
they come to the church and now they accept Christ, right?。
Now they probably would carry the same mentality。
and they want Jesus to do the same thing for them, right?。
Don't we all do that sometimes?。
And we need to repent.。
Because we come to Jesus, we come to the true God,。
and we want this true God to be my servant,。
to do something for me, right?。
If he doesn't do something for me,。
then he must be false, right?。
This is the wrong mentality that we bring。
to the biblical faith.。
And Paul is saying, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no.。
"No, if you really have the spirit," Paul said,。
"you won't say, 'Jesus, grant the curse.'"。
That means you don't use the name of Jesus。
for your own purposes.。
You are not the Lord.。
Jesus is the Lord.。
Jesus is the Lord.。
You don't use Jesus for your own benefits.。
Whether you want to get some more money,。
a bigger house, a higher status in your society,。
all that stuff.。
Paul is correcting some of the wrong-headed mentality.。
He said, "If you have the spirit, you say,。
"'Jesus is the Lord,' that means you surrender yourself.。
"You surrender your will and your desire。
"to the true Lord, Jesus Christ himself,。
"and you are a servant."。
That's a totally different ballgame in the Bible,。
in biblical faith.。
You come to worship God, to call him Lord,。
and you acknowledge his lordship.。
And that's why we worship, right?。
That's why we worship.。
That's why we worship every day, especially on Sunday.。
We set aside this time because we want to acknowledge。
that God himself, Jesus, is the Lord, and I'm not.。
He is in charge, and I'm coming before him.。
I surrender myself to him.。
And that's how Paul started with this whole chapter,。
talking about spiritual gifts.。
He said, "There are different kinds of spiritual gifts,。
"but the same spirit is the source of them.。
"There are different kinds of service,。
"but we serve the same Lord."。
God works in different ways, and it is the same God。
who does the work in all of us in the church.。
A spiritual gift is given to each and every one of us。
so that we can help each other,。
or the common translation is for the common good.。
Verse 11, "It is one and only spirit.。
"He distributes all these gifts,。
"these special abilities to different members of the church.。
"He alone decides which gifts each person should have."。
That is spiritual gifts.。
And then, in the latter context,。
he talks about what kind of gifts.。
So Paul kind of gives us a list.。
First, the apostles, the gift of apostles,。
meaning planting churches or launching churches.。
In our UV network, we belong to the Southern Baptist。
church planting movement, so we launched 2016.。
And we got a lot of church planters in our network.。
They are in the city, they are in different areas,。
they are starting different churches,。
and these people are doing what the apostles did.。
You know, Apostle Paul, going from town to town。
and city to city to start churches,。
to begin churches, to launch church plants.。
First gift is the apostle, and second gift is prophets,。
prophetic words.。
Now again, prophetic words is not weather forecast.。
It's not our modern meaning.。
Prophetic, being prophetic, being a prophet,。
in Paul's days, in biblical terms,。
is speaking on behalf of the Word of God.。
Based on the final revelation,。
the final authority of the Word of God,。
he proclaims the Word of God.。
That's what the Old Testament or even New Testament。
in Paul's time still have prophets.。
What they're doing is proclaiming。
the authoritative Word of God to the people, teaching them.。
And the third gift is teachers.。
Teacher, correcting and teaching。
the right doctrines of the church.。
And then he lists out different kinds of gifts,。
but the whole point is, the whole point is,。
it's not an exhaustive, comprehensive list。
of spiritual gifts.。
You can find different lists of spiritual gifts。
from 1 Corinthians, no, 1 Peter,。
and other church letters.。
But the whole point is not giving you a comprehensive list.。
The whole point is tell you what spiritual gifts are for.。
The most important word in this passage。
is the word soul.。
In order that.。
The ultimate purpose.。
What is it for?。
In order so that we can help each other or common good,。
to increase the common good of the church community.。
That's what spiritual gifts are for.。
And what the problems with the Corinthian Christians,。
if you read the whole letter,。
is that they regard spiritual gifts。
as something to build up their own。
high status in the community.。
So the people will speak the tongue,。
and they think because we have this kind of explicit。
expression of the Holy Spirit's work in our lives,。
and we can speak the language of angel and all that stuff.。
And that's why we are of higher status in the community.。
Paul flipped it around and say,。
this is actually the last one.。
You check the list of spiritual gifts,。
speaking in tongue is the last one.。
The first one, or the first few spiritual gifts。
that Paul wanted to elevate,。
were actually has to do with communicating the word of God。
for the benefit of the whole church.。
So Paul is trying to correct this problem and say,。
look guys, what is spiritual gift?。
And he used this special word, charismatic,。
to describe spiritual gifts.。
What is it?。
Maybe the most simplest definition。
is freely given gifts, given without merit.。
It's not because of who you are.。
It's not because you're smarter.。
That's why you get this gift and that gift.。
It's not because you're better.。
It's not based on your merit。
that the Spirit gives you certain kind of gifts.。
It's freely given.。
It's like salvation.。
It's like our redemption in Christ.。
It's freely given to all of us without merit.。
I remember some years ago, I was reading this book。
and the author has a way to categorize,。
you know, grouping different spiritual gifts together.。
And he mentioned four big categories.。
The first one, he said there were different abilities,。
different spiritual gifts in the church。
that would celebrate the name of God.。
Well, one of the most clear examples。
is those who are musically gifted, right?。
Right?。
Any of you have learned a music instrument before。
and you gave up, right?。
(audience laughing)。
You do, right?。
Yeah, many of you guys are Asians, right?。
Must have learned some music talents, right?。
And then you finally give up.。
You know, nothing wrong with you.。
You're just not gifted.。
(audience laughing)。
Right?。
Maybe you're not disciplined enough.。
That's why you gave up, right?。
Some of you pick up the instrument,。
they really learned well, you know?。
They didn't spend a lot of time, right?。
But they are naturally or spiritually。
given with that gift, right?。
That's one of the clearest examples of gifts。
that can celebrate the name of God.。
Worship is one of them.。
And the second category is communicate,。
communicating the word of God.。
Some people are more gifted in teaching, right?。
Some of them are really gifted in, you know,。
doing study and clearly communicating, you know,。
the truth of God so that the church。
can get benefits out of it, right?。
Yeah, I know we have the open AI these days.。
And, you know, one of my friends actually, you know,。
plop into the AI and ask the AI to,。
hey, can you write a devotional on this chapter。
or that chapter in the Bible?。
And the AI actually can spill out pretty good stuff.。
You know, as you know, I'm doing studies, right?。
Old Testament studies in seminary, part-time.。
And some of you guys encourage me, you know,。
because you heard, you know, I have to write a paper, right?。
So I actually try.。
I actually try to, you know, plop into the AI and say,。
hey, I want this topic.。
You know, can you write me something?。
And then I try it a couple of weeks ago.。
Actually, the AI gave me some correct information。
with some wrong information.。
(laughs)。
With some wrong information。
about the Old Testament background.。
So I correct the AI.。
I said, this is wrong.。
That's not from there.。
You know, it's from here, right?。
So, you know, we live in the new generation。
and it's kind of interesting, you know,。
how we can use, you know, this tools, you know,。
to minister.。
Although there's so much danger in it,。
but, you know, it's one of the tools, right?。
It's like computer, right?。
This morning I was talking to a brother。
who is in charge of all this IT tools of our church.。
You know, you walk into church,。
there's so many things have to do with IT, right?。
You know, this thing, this thing,。
and, you know, computer and all that stuff.。
Well, someone has to be gifted in also the IT stuff。
in order to make it work and make the church operate.。
And some of the brothers and sisters。
are gifted in such a way, you know,。
that I'm not gifted in.。
And they use it to build up the church.。
The third category is caring.。
Some people are really good, really good.。
In hospitality.。
You know, not, of course we need to love one another,。
right, no matter who, right?。
Sister or brother in Christ, we have to love one another.。
But some people are really gifted in caring.。
You know, go visit the sick and, you know, cooking.。
Just prepare good food, right?。
You know, I'm not one of those.。
You know, I cook.。
Yeah, but the stuff that I cook, it sucks.。
(audience laughing)。
'Cause I have the instrumental mentality to food, you know?。
I said food, I just devour it,。
and then I'll go on to do something else, right?。
So I really don't know how to enjoy it, right?。
My son does.。
Yeah, my son, Nathan, yeah.。
He is a very, very good cook.。
Sometimes I have to beg him.。
You know, can you make a little bit more?。
Yeah, so I can have a portion, you know?。
Some people are really good at caring, you know?。
Just making a loving environment,。
creating, you know, relationships,。
so that the church can be built up.。
Collaborating, leadership.。
Did I mention that?。
Yeah, Paul mentioned that, the gift of leadership, right?。
People can put things together。
so that we can, you know, operate as a team, right?。
It's not like a car.。
You know, you have different parts, right?。
The engine, the water pump, and the motor oil,。
the brakes, and all that stuff.。
Everything has to work together。
in order for the car to bring you from A to B, right?。
You walk into the church,。
maybe when you walk into church for the first time,。
what was your impression?。
You walk into church, our church, UV.。
- Cars, benches. - Yeah, okay, okay.。
The cars, okay.。
So you walk in, there's six or seven, you know,。
toy cars out there.。
None of them is mine.。
It belongs to the owner of the building.。
This is toy car parking lot.。
So you walk through the cars, right?。
Some people thought, you know, we are car dealers.。
(audience laughing)。
That'd be nice.。
But, you know, you walk through, you know, all this stuff,。
and you come to our unit, right?。
What was your impression?。
It's a very nice place, right?。
The cafe is a very nice place.。
I want to tell you the story。
because, you know, it's not me who designed it.。
You know, if I design it,。
it's gonna be just folding tables, folding chairs, right?。
'Cause I'm a practical guy, right?。
When you find, you want coffee, here you go, you know?。
(audience laughing)。
I've, you know, it's not in my radar, you know,。
how it looks and the design.。
Because when we launched our church, Urban Voice, 2016,。
one of my core team members is a very gifted artist.。
So she told me, I still remember, she told me,。
"You step away, pastor."。
(audience laughing)。
You know, this sort of stuff, you know,。
it's you're not gifted, I'm gifted.。
So let me design it, right?。
So she actually designed a lot of different things,。
you know, all the looks and feel, it's all from her brain.。
It's all from her, right?。
It's not me.。
Now, this is the conviction。
that the Bible wants you to carry.。
It's that every single one of us。
needs to discover your own spiritual gifts.。
You need to find out where you're gifted at.。
And you need to discover it, you need to develop it.。
You need to grow, right?。
I remember some time ago, I was reorganizing。
my study room, my home office.。
And I found some of the old sermons that I had, you know,。
years ago, years ago.。
I look at the script and I said, "Dang, it sucks.。
"It's really bad sermon."。
You know, what was I doing, right?。
Because I was just, you know, first year in ministry。
and I have so much to learn, right?。
Well, even today, I look at my sermons,。
sometimes I told myself, "That's not gonna be good."。
Right?。
And why did I preach that, you know?。
But amazingly, you know, God used crappy sermons。
to accomplish his goal, right?。
It's not an excuse, but we need to study, right?。
We need to grow.。
I need to grow and you need to grow as well.。
Discover your gifts and use it, develop it, right?。
12.14, Paul continues to say,。
"Yes, the body has many different parts,。
"not just one part.。
"If the foot says, 'I am not part of the body。
"'because I'm not a hand,'。
"that does not make it any less a part of the body.。
"If the ear says, 'I am not part of the body。
"'because I'm not an eye,'。
"would that make it any less a part of the body?。
"No, every part is important."。
18, "But our bodies have many parts。
"and God, according to his sovereignty,。
"has put each and every part just where he wants it."。
Who's the subject here?。
God.。
He has the sovereign will to do whatever he desires。
to give different members with different things, right?。
It's like a football team, right?。
Those wide receiver go to the end zone。
and got the touchdown, right?。
How did he do that?。
Of course, he cut the ball, right?。
But the ball has to pass to him, right?。
And whose credit should that be?。
You gotta have the quarterback good enough。
to pass the ball to him, right?。
And he's good enough to catch it, right?。
To score it.。
It's like a team of people working together.。
The Spirit gives us different things,。
abilities to build up the church, right?。
I'm going back to very beginning.。
I was called to ministry and I answered the call.。
Of course, I stumbled and fall.。
I learned a lot throughout these years.。
But there has to be a community working together, right?。
Now, Paul is using the analogy of human body。
to teach what church should look like, right?。
And you understand the culture of Paul's day.。
Actually, the body image was often used。
by politicians in Paul's day.。
There was a story in Paul's time.。
The politicians were trying to appeal。
to workers who were on strike.。
So there were a lot of different workers and slaves。
that were on strike because of uneven pay。
or unequal pay, treatment, and all that stuff.。
So they were on strike.。
So the Roman politicians comes in and say,。
"Hey, think about it.。
"We are like a body, right?。
"And we, the leaders, the governing class,。
"the upper class, we are the stomach."。
And the speech actually goes like this.。
"We are the stomach, we are the governing body,。
"and you workers are providing food for the stomach."。
Right?。
Using the body language to tell everyone,。
"Okay, don't go on strike.。
"Go back to work.。
"Because if you go back to work,。
"then we have something to eat."。
Right?。
Now, as you can tell, the analogy is working。
for those who are oppressing the people.。
Right?。
The ruling class.。
Paul is using the same image subversively.。
He turn it around, turn the table.。
In fact, the whole analogy,。
if you read the 12th chapter of 1 Corinthians,。
stomach is not there.。
You know why?。
Because of the background of Paul.。
He's not like a politician.。
He's an apostle.。
He wants the church to grow and to be strengthened.。
And that's why Paul is saying, "No stomach."。
There's no ruling class.。
Every single one plays its part.。
And even the strong should value the weak, the despised.。
Read the chapter on your own time.。
That's how the church should be put together.。
And the more I think about spiritual gifts,。
you know, sometimes we have the, you know,。
not quite right mentality.。
We thought he has that ability.。
I don't have that ability.。
He got that tool.。
I don't have that tool.。
You know, it's not like that.。
The more I think about it,。
spiritual gifts are more like opportunities.。
Opportunities that we should seize。
and use for the glory of God.。
Spiritual gifts are more like opportunity。
God has given to us.。
So we talk about what are spiritual gifts。
and what are those spiritual gifts for?。
And what are they like?。
Opportunities.。
God given opportunities for you and me。
to build up the church.。
Now I told you last week,。
I went to my seminary for a whole week seminar。
and I present paper and some of the students present paper.。
You know, the school that I'm going to is Midwestern.。
I really like the slogan.。
Can you see that?。
For the church.。
For the church.。
Whatever we're doing,。
whatever lofty idea we're doing, you know,。
scholars, there's 30 different stuff in the Bible.。
The ultimate purpose is for the church.。
What a privilege we have the opportunities to do that.。
Yesterday, there was a funeral,。
a memorial service for a beloved brother.。
He's not coming to UV, but he goes to CCC South。
and known him for years, Dr. Dominic Ho.。
And in the entire service, you know,。
different people have different reflections on Dr. Ho.。
And I was really amazed by, you know, this man's humility.。
You know, he's a wonderful doctor。
and is accomplished in his field,。
but it's very humble.。
You know, I've known him for years and he's generous,。
he's humble, always there to help other people。
using his opportunities in his career, in the church,。
to honor the name of God.。
You know, what an example.。
God is giving us here and there different opportunities。
to glorify his name.。
The beginning of a service,。
Miriam mentioned the revival at Ashbury University.。
What started as a chapel service scheduled on February 8th,。
not too long ago, 10 days ago,。
and the service prolonged。
and different people, you know,。
they gave different expressions, right?。
Radical humility, confession,。
consecration, surrounding themselves to God.。
You know, there are different people from, you know,。
distant community and travel all the way to Ashbury。
in order to experience the revival, right?。
Now, who made it?。
Who made it happen?。
It's not a human created thing.。
It's a God sent.。
Nobody planned for it, right?。
If you study the history of revival in the church history,。
nobody actually manipulate and plan for revival.。
It's the spirit who sends it.。
The spirit is at work in different brother and sisters。
so that the glory of God can be magnified.。
And the most important thing。
is that the people are returning to God and His word.。
That's the most important thing.。
Yeah, the emotional, you know, experience,。
you know, those are valuable,。
but the most important thing is that we will return。
to God Himself and say, "Jesus is Lord.。
"Only Jesus is Lord."。
And I'll do away all the pagan practices.。
I'll do away all this non-biblical lifestyles,。
mentality, attitudes, and come to God Himself。
to experience this is the true revival.。
The true revival is the people will finally。
and ultimately return to God, right?。
And let us do that.。
Surrender our will to God Himself and say, "Jesus is Lord."。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we praise you.。
We worship you because Jesus is our Lord,。
and He is the only true Lord.。
And thank you for the opportunity we can serve you.。
And thank you for the different abilities,。
different talents that we have。
so that we can use them to strengthen your community,。
your church family.。
We ask that once again, your spirit will come upon us。
to open our lives and our hearts。
so that we'll be surrounding our will to you。
and be used by you, ready.。
We're ready to be your servants.。
We're ready to be touched and moved by your spirit,。
you know, to love and to serve and to worship you.。
And I pray that your spirit will be at work in our midst.。
Will be at work in our lives.。
Help us to repent and return to you,。
to live under your word, to live out the gospel,。
live out the life of the spirit.。
And I pray that you will help us to learn,。
to grow as a church community,。
that your body, the body of Christ,。
will continue to be strengthened。
and to give you glory.。
In Christ, we pray.。
Amen.。
But again, your homework this week is to discover and to develop.。
