All right guys, let's turn to our Bible and we're going to work on the Apostles Creek and we've been。
Examining the basic of our faith the core beliefs of our faith and when people ask you what is。
Christianity all about and you should be able to give a ready answer, right?。
this is what the Creek of Apostles is all about right an ancient Creek almost 2,000 years old and。
Going back to almost the Apostolic Age。
So we are working through。
Possibly line by line。
Something like that and we started with the first statement and we're going to move on to the next section today。
But let's reveal the first statement. I believe God the Father Almighty。
Creator of heaven and earth. All right。
So I want you to really think about it because the Apostles Creek even though there's there are only 12 statements。
It's not a long document is pretty much a pocket size, right? You can fill into one screen on your phone。
But these 12 statements are the core beliefs the foundations of Christianity。
I believe in God the Father creator of heaven and earth and that statement the first one。
alone sets apart。
Christianity from all other religions。
Think about it. It sets apart。
Christianity from all other religions。
We live in the time of。
What we call pluralism, right? Everything should be considered equally, right?。
That's what pluralism means。
Or we value diversity。
We live in a time when we always hear people say。
All religions are the same right all religions are helping people to do good。
Right to help you improve。
And on all faiths the same, right?。
That is the cultural script. That is what the culture is telling us all。
Beliefs all religions are taught are teaching us how to be a better person。
That is the assumption right but this statement actually sets apart。
Christianity from all others think about Christianity and。
Buddhism。
Or Hinduism or Islam。
Are they all the same this statement says no because these。
Apostles creeds。
Begin with God being the creator of the universe and the world has a beginning。
the world has a。
beginning of a personal agent。
Someone has started the world God the creator it sets the Christian faith apart from many other。
Eastern religions。
for example Buddhism。
Is it also sets apart the biblical faith?。
from all other secular religions or。
ideologies right religions or ideologies。
atheism or。
materialism。
that belief。
essentially。
Matter is all there is right from eternal to eternal。
all。
matters。
But this statement says no。
The universe that we live in we are part of the universe。
exists all because of a。
personal God who created it and。
It has a reason to be。
This universe and you and me we exist. There was a reason right?。
But as I work through。
Some of the passages in the Bible that talks about the beginning of the universe you understand. It's not a scientific report, right?。
So get this. Okay. This is your take home。
Go out from this church。
The rest of the week don't even think that the Bible is this scientific report。
No, it is not is this an ancient document?。
It is a document from many many years ago。
however, God used those concepts to。
To to teach us。
That who is in charge and who started all right. So Genesis 1 and 2 are not。
Scientific reports. All right。
They are theological report the theological statements telling us who。
Is behind all of this?。
I was reading a very very old book our print book and。
Written by J. I Pecker. I think he said it's so right. So I want to quote it。
He in this book I want to be a Christian。
Written long time ago our print but he said it's so right。
He said Genesis wanted to tell us who?。
with so many answers about how。
Some today think this is a defect。
but in a long huge perspective of history our present-day scientific。
preoccupation with how rather than who looks very odd in itself。
rather than criticizing these chapters。
For not feeding our secular modern contemporary interest。
Scientific interest we should take from them Genesis 1 & 2。
Needed we built of our perverse passion。
For knowing the nature to creation without regard to what matter most mainly nature's creator。
We are obsessed with the how right?。
Technology science right they have their place, but we are sometimes。
totally obsessed by this。
We need to be rebuilt because we are interested in the how not the who the Bible tells us we should be concerned about the who。
Who do we worship and who do we follow? It's God himself the Creator。
He continues the message of these two chapters is this you have seen the sea the sky。
the Sun moon the stars and。
Wonderful complexity of the creation be it human beings and all that fantastic, isn't it? Well now meet the one。
Who is behind it all?。
Genesis 1 & 2 are telling us. Hey, you have enjoyed these works of art。
And now you must shake hands with the artist and you are thrilled by the music。
We now introduce you to the composer。
It is to show us the composer the artist the creator。
Rather than the creation. That's what Genesis is all about。
That's what Genesis 1 & 2 is all about and the Apostles Creek rightly。
Says that we believe in this Creator God himself。
Creator of heaven earth creator of our existence our world and then it continues to a huge section about。
Jesus Christ the Son of God。
Now you can tell from the highlight. This is the longest section of。
The whole Apostles Creek the longest section on Jesus Christ the central section the core of everything。
because there are short statements before the highlight and then there are short statements after it but。
these short statements。
sandwiched。
the middle and。
It is all about。
Christ himself Jesus Christ himself。
now Jesus。
It's a name. All right, that's the name。
in Greek。
or。
Greek is for Joshua and Joshua。
Was was originally a Hebrew name. So Joshua Jesus。
Mean the same thing。
It's a proper name, right just like you can call me mark, right?。
Now it tells us from the Bible that Jesus is。
the only Son of God and。
was Mary's son。
from virgin birth。
Now that means it is only possible。
with God's miracle。
the birth of Jesus a miracle child。
The accomplishment of the plan of God the redemption of God is only possible because God did。
Also tells us the humaneness of Jesus Christ his humanity。
He is from Nazareth。
in Galilee。
He was a carpenter a Jewish carpenter。
He worked for three years as a rabbi and was put to death as the statement says was crucified and died。
in a specific time。
in the time of Pontius Pilate。
right。
so all the statement tells us that。
Jesus was a。
historical person, right a。
You a historical person。
You are right someday you die. Hopefully you live some footprint in the book or so。
All right on a tombstone。
You are historical。
Jesus was historical but he's more than a historical figure。
Because what Jesus has said or what Jesus has done。
It's beyond what a human could do or could say。
So Jesus is the centerpiece of the Apostle's Creed。
And then I said Jesus is the name but Christ is a title。
All right, Christ is not a proper name. Just like pastor is not a name, right?。
You can call me mark, right? This is my proper name。
But my proper name is not pastor, right? The title is the pastor Christ is a title, right?。
Um, don't mistake it saying Jesus Christ because his last name is Christ。
Christ is not Chen. It's not Lee. It's not Smith or any last name, right? It's an office。
title。
It's from the Hebrew Bible from the Old Testament。
Messiah。
So Messiah is the Hebrew and then translated to Greek is Christ。
meaning anointed one。
In the Old Testament culture in the Hebrew culture whenever a king is being set apart。
To be to reign on earth to reign on behalf of God。
He is being set apart by pouring oil on his head on his hair。
Over his head that is anointment right to。
To set him apart as king。
Now so that's why Jesus Christ。
Means Jesus the Messiah, right Jesus the Christ the Messiah the king. It's a title。
only much later in the Christian。
Generations and generations after after Christ。
Christ becomes a proper name, right?。
from a proper。
Title become becoming a proper name. So that's why。
Even in the New Testament Jesus and Christ are synonymous。
You can call Christ Jesus or Jesus Christ, but you do know that the。
Word Christ means he is the king. He is being anointed by God. He died but rose again。
So he rightly reigns over all of us and even the universe when he comes back。
So whether we believe in Jesus Christ as the Bible says or not now, we still need to understand who Jesus really is. I。
Once had a conversation with a Buddhist monk in Chinatown。
Interesting, right?。
So we met in a community meeting。
Something like that and then after the meeting we kind of you know, shake hand and instills one another and then。
You know because they a Buddhist monk has a different dress, right?。
They got the rope right? I don't right and then I approach him and I。
Introduce myself. I'm I am。
My name is Mark, right and I'm Pastor Mark。
So he introduced himself and then we try to talk and then try to strike conversation and after the monk。
Learned that I'm a Christian church pastor and our conversation quickly。
Turn into as you can tell。
About our religions, right? And then this monk continues. He said oh。
Great your church pastor and we are the same。
And I was kind of astonished。
Yeah, really, you know, I didn't shake my head. Um。
He said we are the same。
Both your religion and my religion are essentially the same because we are teaching people how to do good, right?。
Oh, that's nice. You know, you're doing your part and I'm doing my part and I quickly answer, you know, respectively, of course。
Right, respectively. I said, um, you know what? Mr.。
monk, uh。
I。
Forgot his name. I forgot. He has his title. Yes. It's a very formal title. I said, hmm。
Not really。
And then he was kind of stunned and you know, I disagree with him, you know。
And I started to talk about you know, who Jesus is I。
Started to talk about who Jesus Christ is。
Right. He died on the cross to save us。
And he rose again. I。
Talked to him. We are being saved not because we do good。
We have been saved because someone else。
Did something on our behalf so that we are justified。
Right, so we become righteous at least positionally we become righteous。
so I so I can't kind of counter and then。
finally, you know after。
my, you know impromptu preaching。
to him。
He said okay, maybe the two religions are with a different I。
Said of course, we're different right what we expect you you try to teach people to do good。
But you know is apple and orange right you can't say okay we are。
You know, you don't say you don't say dogs and cats are the same because both of them have four legs, right?。
Simply because of that right the comments the lowest common denominator, right? I think that's a logical fallacy, right?。
you got to。
Compare and contrast right in order to know the essence of the two, right?。
As I said in the beginning our culture is telling us everything is the same all are the same。
But you know, I bet to be the differ。
And the Bible does that too?。
Romans 5。
Romans 5 Paul is writing to the church. He said you see at just the right time。
When we were still powerless。
Christ died for the ungodly。
Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man. Though for good men someone might possibly dare to die。
But God demonstrates his own love for us in this look at this。
While we were still sinners Christ died for us。
This is there's not a hint of。
Improvement. There's not a hint of。
Being better so I can come to Christ. No, there's not a clue here。
We begin with the premise that we are sinners。
It says we are sinners. We are powerless. We are condemned and。
The pastor says we are ungodly。
Let me focus on this。
Emphasize this I emphasize this to many many people even those who have come to church for many many years。
Somehow so we don't get it. You know, let me emphasize this the Bible。
the Bible。
The Bible is not about teaching us to do good。
Scripture。
It's not about teaching you and me to do good, all right, so people are pretty stunned when I said this, right。
I remember that one time I was in the church. I was talking to。
Quite a few people from from China。
Actually, I was in Tel Aviv. I was in Israel. They have a little Chinese church there。
So I was invited to to speak so after speaking I was just discussing with some some of the people。
There and some of them are Christian some of them are not and I said that in order to stun them, you know in order to。
Shock, you know, I said, you know, we're looking at the Bible right? The Bible is not about teaching us to do good and。
They were like what?。
Because they have some sort of you know, notion of sacredness, right? This scripture, of course is about it's something good, right?。
Something to teach us good. No, I said no, I never found a verse in the Bible that teach us to do good。
They said Willie. I said yes, I'm serious。
Look at me. I'm pastor. Okay. I'm telling you the Bible is not about teaching us to do good to be good。
Let me say this again. The Bible the biblical faith is not about self-improvement。
So that we can be a better moral persons。
No。
Never find any word or verse in the Bible. I。
Really don't I study Bible for。
quite some years。
I really don't find any self-help。
moral lessons in the Bible I。
don't。
The Bible is not telling us to do good. No instead。
the Bible。
Is showing us we cannot do good。
We are not good and never can we be good enough that's what the Bible says。
The Bible says you cannot be good and you never。
Never can you be good enough?。
We are sinners。
We are powerless。
We're powerless to do good。
We're condemned in our sin in death。
So, what can we do that's what the Bible says Jesus came。
Jesus came to save us. That is the good news。
That is the gospel. That is what the Bible is trying to do。
So when we come to the Apostles Creek trying to understand who Jesus is。
Consider。
Carefully。
Who Jesus is?。
If the Bible is the gospel is all about improving ourselves, you know being better so that we can come to church。
We can come before God。
Then Jesus didn't have to die, right?。
Jesus have to do whatever he has done or say whatever he has said, right?。
As we call in the Bible Jesus has said something and did something and many things that is beyond。
typical human。
Can do or can say I?。
Still think the way CS Lewis word this so well in his classic。
mere Christianity。
Now he was talking about who Jesus is and let me quote this kind of a long quote。
I was CS Lewis。
Once passed away many many years ago. He used to be a Oxford。
English。
literature guy。
Scholar he wrote this book mere Christianity。
He's talking about who Jesus is。
He said I'm trying here to prevent anyone saying the worldly foolish thing。
That people often say about him being Jesus Christ。
I'm ready to the people are saying I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher。
But I don't accept his claim to be God。
That is one thing we must not say said Lewis。
He said a man。
who was merely a man and。
Said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. Think about it。
He said right if。
Jesus said what he said。
He would not be a great moral teacher. No way。
He is。
either a。
Lunatic or。
He would be the devil help。
Think about it. Whatever Jesus said in the full gospel or in the New Testament recorded。
He。
Would not be a great moral teacher no way and。
You must make your choice Lewis continues。
Either this man Jesus was and is the Son of God or else a madman or something worse。
You can shut him up。
for a fool you can spill at him and。
Kill him crucify him as a demon。
Or you can fall as feet and call him Lord and God but let us not come with a nonsense。
About him being a great moral teacher。
He has not left that choice open to us and he did not intend to。
Now that is the well-known。
Trilemma of says Lewis。
Trilemma means there's only three choices that is before us only three choices either Jesus is a lunatic。
crazy man or。
Jesus is a liar。
someone who has deceived many many people even the sensible people or。
He is indeed what he came to be。
He's a lunatic or liar or the Lord of all。
He's got himself so think about it. I think this is pretty well word。
What the Bible is all about what gospel is all about? I?。
Often hear people say, you know when I invite them to come to church, right?。
They often respond. Oh, I'm not good enough to go to church, right? I'm not as holy as you are。
Right, you guys are holy you can come to the church. All right, but you know, I kind of you know。
I'm not gonna come right because this is too sacred。
No。
No。
No。
And they always respond oh, let me do better so I can come to church。
We think。
That's not what the Bible says。
And that is the very reason that we are not holy. We sinners that we come to church。
We come to the cross and Jesus died for us. I。
Think one of the best passages that talks about the person and work of Jesus Christ is。
Philippians 2。
Let me read that and expand on that。
Your attitude should be the same as the attitude of Christ Jesus。
Who。
Being in fairy nature of God did not consider equality with God something to be grabs。
But made himself nothing。
But this that this is trickier。
the I。
Think in English as well in Greek。
There was some something called reflexive pronoun, you know reflexive。
meaning of a word。
Reflexive meaning meaning there's an action that you do not to others。
But you do it to yourself。
That is called reflexiveness, right?。
Self-reflexiveness。
He made himself nothing。
He made himself nothing he chose to do that to himself。
No one forced him。
But he did it all because of his willingness。
To make himself nothing even though he was very nature of God。
He made himself nothing taking the very nature of a servant being made in human likeness。
Being found in the appearance of men。
He humbled himself and became obedient to death even death on the cross。
therefore。
God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name。
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow in heaven on earth and under the earth and。
Every tongue confessed that Jesus is the Lord Jesus Christ is the Lord to the glory of God the Father。
That is the good news。
That is what the church is preaching。
That is what the Bible is all about。
Jesus did it。
To us。
Accomplish the salvation for all of us and die for our sins and he did he did it willingly as a slave。
Without his own self-will。
But only will of the Father to save you and me who are powerless in our sin。
So that we can be called children of God now, how how would this good news?。
affect or change our way and our attitude I。
Think it will change and it should change all of us radically。
Think about all the relationships that we have with our friends。
Without other church members brother and sister in Christ。
In fact what this passage is all about is about church life verse 5 your attitude。
Your attitude as a church to one another。
Your attitude should be the same as the attitude of Christ Jesus. He did it to himself。
He laid down his own right to die on the cross as a slave. We ought to use this kind of attitude。
Toward one another to care for one another。
That will affect or that would change our relationship with one another。
To love and to build up each other and forgive one another right?。
Now to extend this application it will affect。
Our marriages as well。
Right two sinners living together broken。
Not easy。
But in light of what Christ has done。
Yes, we're broken but we are totally forgiven right。
Because of the grace of God that should change how we relate to one another right how spouses relate to one another。
How spouses should forgive one another to the love one another totally。
And how it should change our way to live。
We are the instrument of God the great price of salvation。
Jesus has paid for is to redeem us so that we do not belong to anyone。
But God himself alone。
We are his instrument。
We are to be used by God himself。
We are the instrument of the gospel。
You go back to your campus you go back to your family you go back to your workplace。
You take a totally different role because God is using us。
Using us as instrument to invite other people to experience the grace of God。
Let me end with the Apostles Creek and if you have the same conviction I invite you to recite。
The Apostles Creek with me。
The Apostles Creek。
Let's do it together. I believe in God the Father Almighty。
creator of heaven and earth I。
Believe in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord。
He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit and born of the Virgin Mary。
He suffered under Pontius Pilate was crucified died and was buried. He descended to the dead on the third day。
He rose again. He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father。
He will come again to judge the living and the dead。
I believe in the Holy Spirit the Holy Universal Church the chameleon of saints the forgiveness of sins。
the resurrection of the body and life everlasting。
Amen, let's all pray together。
Father we kneel our belief and understanding of your love of your grace and thank you。
For what Christ Jesus our Lord has done。
He is indeed the Lord of all。
He is indeed our King。
And we pray that you renew。
our sense of your grace。
So great of a salvation that while we were sinners while we were powerless while we were your enemies。
You came to save us。
Forgive all of our sins and our guilt and to heal us and to bring us back to you。
So that you。
our Holy God。
we can stand before you as。
justified。
Righteous all because of what your Son has done for us。
And we will give you thanks and praise you because you deserve all praises。
And。
Lord indeed。
We are redeemed。
by your great love and we pray that。
With your great love with your grace you renew and use us。
In the rest of the week we can be your instruments。
To bring peace and love and your grace。
To our family to our marriage to our。
Neighborhood to our campuses and pray that you will send us。
send us with this mission and。
Depending on your grace. We will be used by you for your glory in Christ name. Amen。
