- Well, yes, so this Thursday, you're welcome to join us。
for the barbecue hangout, all right?。
We'll make sure you have good meat, okay?。
I'm going to Costco tomorrow, so we'll shop enough food。
for all the people, but you have to RSVP, okay?。
You have to tell me, or maybe Amanda, too.。
You can tell her that you are coming, okay?。
So we know you have to feed your stomach,。
we have to prepare fireworks for you, okay?。
We will have some fireworks for you, okay?。
Just a little bit, so don't burn down my house.。
Well, being Asian, every July 4th is a very interesting day.。
My neighbors, most of them are different ethnic background,。
and they spend quite a bit on fireworks.。
But I'm Asian, so I don't do this stuff.。
But it's going to be fun, though, right?。
We'll do a little bit, okay?。
We're going to have fun Thursday, Thursday evening, all right?。
Again, I want to remind you to pray for one another.。
We're going to start a new series on back to basics.。
What does it mean, back to basics?。
You know, in our daily life,。
there are a lot of basic principles we have to master, right?。
Anyone do workout from time to time, or regularly, anyone?。
Only a few hands, okay, great, great, okay, back there, too.。
All right, good, good, good, yeah.。
There are some basics you have to master, right?。
There are some basics in terms of diet,。
in terms of what you take in, and how you work out,。
and all the activities have some sort of basic principles.。
Anyone plays music instruments here?。
Music instruments, yeah.。
You remember in those days when you learn。
to operate an instrument,。
a musical instrument, make good sound out of it,。
there are some principles or some basic exercise。
you have to just drill, right?。
It's boring, but in order to do it well,。
in order to enjoy it, you have to master the basics.。
And I have this idea about back to basics series。
because I saw this picture not too long ago.。
And someone posted on social media,。
it's talking about a building,。
you know, a high rise or the taller the building,。
the deeper the foundation is needed, right?。
The foundations cannot be seen.。
It is underground, right?。
Many, many feet underground, many meters underground.。
And you have to build that foundation solid enough。
and deep enough in order to build up your life, right?。
Story after story so that the building。
will not easily damage or collapse.。
So, you know, talking about architectural terms,。
you need the basics, right?。
You need the foundation.。
Talking about a spiritual life,。
talking about your relationship with God, right?。
All of us who are in Christ,。
all of us who are following Christ Jesus our Lord,。
we begin our spiritual life from the first moment。
we came to know Christ.。
And from the first moment we came to know Christ,。
we know that the spiritual life needs our,。
need us to master the basic.。
The basic things in our spiritual life are necessary。
so that you can continue to enjoy。
your relationship with God,。
so that you can continue to grow in faith,。
solid faith in Christ.。
So this is part one of the series。
and I have two important points.。
First point is the importance of the Word of God.。
Second point is the power, the strength of the Word of God.。
Now it's very simple when you think about the Word of God。
as something basic for Christian living,。
for our following of Jesus Christ,。
our spiritual relationship with God.。
The Word of God.。
You cannot do without the Bible.。
We are people of the book, all right?。
We are people of the book.。
We need to understand the Bible.。
We need to enjoy reading the Word。
or train ourselves so that we can understand。
the biblical messages in the Bible.。
Now everyone has a Bible today, right?。
You just download an app, right?。
And you've got all the versions in the world.。
Whatever languages you have or you master,。
you can read the Bible in almost,。
almost, actually many of the known languages.。
So think about the Word of God.。
How important that is.。
You think about the Bible,。
there are many, many passages talking about。
the importance of the Word of God in our lives.。
New Testament or Old Testament.。
Let me give you some samples.。
1 Peter 2, verse one.。
So put away all malice and all deceit。
and hypocrisy and envy and all slander.。
Those are the values of the old life.。
Before we came to Christ, put away all the sins.。
And Peter said, like newborn infants, newborn infants,。
long for pure spiritual milk,。
that by it you may grow up in salvation.。
If indeed you have taste, that the Lord is good.。
Like a newborn babies, right?。
We have tons of babies out there, right?。
Oh man, they are noisy, right?。
Whenever I see them, you know,。
I remember the many, many years ago,。
I have my son and daughter and you know,。
I have to give them milk, right?。
I have to take care of them.。
And what they yearn for is something to grow, right?。
Now, Rachel and Nathan are adults now, right?。
You know how heavy they are?。
I cannot pick them up now, right?。
They're more than 100 pounds, right?。
120 pounds, 30 pounds or even.。
Well, how did they grow up?。
You know, how did they grow up?。
Because they have food, right?。
As babies, they need spiritual milk,。
spiritual nourishment, right?。
They need the nutrition.。
They need the food in order for them to grow.。
Same here, this is the analogy applied to Christian life.。
As we go about our Christian living,。
we need the spiritual milk.。
And what Peter is talking about。
is actually the Word of God, pure spiritual milk.。
Without it, we cannot grow, right?。
You realize that from,。
in your spiritual journey,。
whether you're a new Christian。
or you have been Christian for many, many years like me,。
I've been Christian for decades.。
Whenever I ignore the Word of God。
or go without the Word of God,。
then I feel weak.。
I feel I don't have the perspective。
to live my Christian life.。
But whenever I am filled with the Word of God,。
then I know how to live as a Christian.。
And at least I know why, right?。
There are many, many people who have gone astray。
from their faith.。
It's because they go about their life, their Christian life,。
without the spiritual milk, right?。
So that's one of the samples we can find。
from the New Testament.。
There are many, many different passages,。
especially in the Old Testament too.。
Now in the Old Testament, there's a book called Psalms.。
Psalms, how many Psalms are there in the book of Psalms?。
It's a collection of 150 poems or songs or Psalms。
that the poets in the ancient time。
sing about and pray about, worshiping God.。
And many of the Psalms actually talk about the value,。
the importance, and the wonder of the Word of God, right?。
Can you think of any samples?。
Psalm one is one of them, right?。
But it's the man who does not walk in the counsel。
of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners。
or sit in the seat of markers,。
but his delight, his enjoyment,。
he's enjoying something.。
It's the law, the Torah of the Lord.。
On his law, he meditates regularly, day and night.。
Now here comes the analogy.。
He, if he does that, he is like a tree。
planted by streams of water.。
And he's gonna yield his fruit in his season,。
and the leaf does not wither.。
Whatever he does prospers.。
What a beautiful picture, right?。
A tree planted by the river, by the streams of water.。
And he is called blessed, right?。
He will receive the blessing of God.。
Psalm one is one of the samples.。
And then Psalm 19 I preach about, right?。
About creation and about the word of the creator.。
There are many Psalms like this.。
150 Psalms, there are many, many Psalms。
that talk about the word of God that is so important.。
Today, I would like to pay more attention to Psalm 119.。
Psalm 119 verse one,。
beginning with the same word as Psalm one does.。
Psalm 119 verse one.。
Blessed are they whose ways are blameless,。
who walk according to the law of the Lord.。
Verse two.。
Blessed are they who keep his statutes。
and seek God with all their heart.。
Right?。
Blessed.。
Just like Psalm one, talking about the word of God,。
the importance of the word of God in the people of God.。
And Psalm 119, verse one, started with the same word.。
Blessed are those people whose ways are blameless.。
That does not mean, blameless does not mean perfection.。
No one's perfect, right?。
You're not perfect, I'm not perfect.。
You're sinners, I'm a sinner, right?。
We're all broken, we need the redemption of Christ.。
We all need that, we all need the grace of God.。
But what does blameless mean?。
Blameless means he's dedicated.。
Someone who is dedicated and is faithful, right?。
Is truthful.。
To do one thing is to walk according。
to the Torah of the Lord, Torah of Yahweh.。
Blessed are they who keep his word。
and seek God with all their heart.。
Psalm 19 is actually the longest chapter in the Bible.。
The longest poem, longest Psalm in the Bible.。
A total of 176 verses.。
Why?。
Why 176?。
Because in, well, the Old Testament。
was written primarily in Hebrew.。
Hebrew has 22 alphabets, right?。
How many alphabets are there in English?。
20, right?。
Yeah, 26, right?。
(laughing)。
26, yeah, you're right.。
In Hebrew, it's not 26, it's 22.。
From aleph, the first letter, to the last letter, taf.。
22 letters.。
And in this Psalm, the amazing thing,。
the beauty of it is that every eight verses,。
all eight lines begins with the same letter.。
And you go from, like, English go from A to Z.。
In Hebrew, go from aleph all the way to taf,。
this 22nd letter.。
So there are 22 sections in this longest chapter。
of the Bible, and each section is eight verses.。
We call them acrostic Psalm.。
You know, it's just a big word for alphabetical Psalm, right?。
Alphabetical Psalm, right, from A to Z.。
So it's the longest chapter of the Bible.。
Why is this longest chapter of the Bible。
written in such a way?。
It's because when you read through Psalm 119,。
you get the sense of perfection.。
You get a sense of unity.。
It's something to look at, something that is beautiful.。
Talking about what?。
The entire Psalm 119 praises or wonders。
about the Word of God.。
So the Word of God, the Bible, the Word of God,。
that is revealed on the pages of Scripture.。
It's like a beautiful painting.。
You look at the painting, you go to an art museum。
in Chicago, some big museum, you go in there。
and you see some life-size painting, oil painting.。
It's beautiful, and you can appreciate it.。
Psalm 19 has the same message.。
The Word of God is like a beautiful artwork,。
and you can look at it and you can appreciate it,。
and you can sense that there's unity in the Word of God.。
There's perfection in it, there's beauty in it,。
just by looking at it.。
One of my professors in the days of seminary,。
his name is Bruce Waukee.。
He's very old now.。
He's already retired, but he's one of the。
Old Testament experts in the world.。
And I remember in one of his classes,。
he told us every single word in the Bible,。
of course he's an Old Testament professor,。
always focused on his Old Testament, right?。
So he's saying every single word in the Old Testament。
is worth your reflection.。
Every single word, right?。
God does not waste any word in the Scripture.。
So the Word of God is like a beautiful painting, right?。
There are broad brush and there are details there,。
and you can look at it and appreciate it,。
and that is the importance of the Word of God.。
Not only the Word of God gave birth to us。
and made spiritual life,。
make our spiritual relationship with God possible,。
it is also beautiful and perfect.。
And the second point I wanna point out。
is the power of the Word of God.。
As you read through Psalm 119,。
not only is it beautiful poetry,。
the content tells you that the psalmist。
needs the Word of God in the midst of suffering, right?。
So Psalm 19 is actually a lament,。
an individual lament, right?。
Some songs are played in minor keys,。
some songs are in major keys,。
but Psalm 19 is in kind of minor key,。
because as you read through the Psalm,。
more than 17 times,。
the psalmist mentioned his suffering to God,。
and he was praying so hard.。
His struggle with his pain or his suffer with his struggles,。
whatever that is,。
and he's trying to pray to God and draw strength from God.。
But when he suffers, how does he respond?。
Let us read some of the verses here.。
Verses 85 and following.。
The arrogant dig pitfalls for me,。
contrary to your law.。
All your commands are trustworthy.。
Help me, God, for men are persecuting me with thou cause.。
They almost wipe me out from the earth,。
and I have not forsaken your precepts.。
That's part of his prayer, part of his long prayer.。
He said the arrogant people, the enemies,。
are persecuting him, pursuing him, without any cause.。
So this guy is really suffering.。
This guy is really struggling with a lot of challenges,。
a lot of issues in his life, right?。
And something we can relate to, right?。
Probably you have some enemies too.。
Probably you are suffering as well at this point.。
Either the suffering can be described。
in terms of emotions, mental, or even physical, right?。
The psalmist is crying out to God, I am suffering.。
People are digging traps for me.。
They are setting traps for me.。
They are trying to wipe me out, right?。
But the psalmist is trying to draw closer and closer to God.。
He said all your commands are trustworthy, however,。
and you can help me because I have not forsaken。
your precepts, your teaching.。
So you should think about whenever you are struggling,。
there's one thing you can do, you cannot do without.。
It's the word of God.。
Let's read some of the verses.。
Let's continue.。
Verses 50 and 165.。
Psalm says, my comfort in my suffering is this.。
Your promise, your promise, O God, perseveres my life.。
Great peace have they who love your Lord。
and nothing can make them stumble.。
So he's trusting in God by reading the word of God,。
drawing close to God, finding comfort in his suffering,。
finding peace in his suffering.。
So how does this psalmist respond to suffering?。
How does he respond?。
He turns to the word of God.。
You struggle, the one thing you do, you turn to God.。
You read the word, right?。
You know, as a pastor, I often go to hospital。
for visitations, visit the sick and the weak,。
those who struggle, those who suffer.。
And so often, when a friend or a neighbor are on sickbed,。
you just find that your human words are limited, right?。
What can I say besides sickbed, right?。
What can I say to give people a little bit sense。
of comfort and peace?。
I remember one time some years ago,。
I was visiting a patient who was suffering。
from terminal disease, cancer.。
And he was in terrible pain.。
And I was in the hospital room。
and there was no hope for him to recover, no hope.。
He just had days remaining and counting down.。
And what can I say to bring comfort。
and to bring a little peace to the dying, right?。
To those who are suffering.。
And so often, as I told you,。
words coming out of my mouth are so limited, right?。
But I find it's very interesting and very amazing。
that at the end of the visitation,。
I usually read something from the Bible.。
And maybe Psalm 23, and you know this Psalm, right?。
It's a very familiar Psalm.。
Some of the Psalms, some of the words from the Bible,。
I end my visitation with those words.。
And somehow the person who is suffering,。
after hearing the word of God, right, find some peace.。
You can look into his eyes。
and he was experiencing something,。
some peace beyond human understanding, right?。
That's exactly what the Bible says, right?。
That's exactly what the Bible promises,。
that if you read the word of God, right,。
in the midst of suffering,。
you will experience some peace。
that is beyond the world can offer.。
It's offered by God in Christ only.。
I remember when I suffer in different seasons,。
when people, whatever people say,。
you know, I find that their words are empty.。
Now, there's no ability to comfort me.。
But when I turn to the word of God in my quiet time,。
in my own personal prayers,。
I regain strength, right, to do life.。
I regain strength and peace to go on.。
Same thing here, Psalm 119, verse 111.。
It said, "Your statues are my heritage forever,。
"and they are the joy of my heart," right?。
Someone who is suffering,。
but reading the word of God, drawing close to God,。
knowing that the word of God has power to heal,。
the power to comfort, the power to grant peace, right?。
Some years ago, Christianity Today magazine。
interviewed someone called Billy Graham.。
You know, those of us who are,。
well, many of you are younger, right?。
I'm one of the old guys here.。
You know, I still remember Billy Graham.。
I went to one of his evangelistic gathering, right?。
Billy Graham was the greatest evangelist in 20th century,。
and he has led many, many people to Jesus, to Christ.。
And the Christianity Today interviewer。
asked Billy Graham one question.。
After all of the great works God worked through him,。
leading many people to Christ,。
millions of people to Christ,。
and the interviewer asked him a question.。
He said, "Billy, if you could restart your ministry,。
"restart your work, what would you do?。
"Is there anything you would do differently。
"if you restart your whole thing,。
"you know, your whole ministry, your whole work for God?"。
And Billy Graham said, "I would actually spend more time。
"to study the Word of God before I preach."。
That's pretty interesting, right?。
I would study the Word of God and preach less, right?。
You know, at times, we envy the people in the Bible,。
like Abraham, right?。
Abraham, in his faith journey in God,。
God appeared to him visually and spoke to him directly,。
right, and most of us,。
we don't usually have that kind of experience,。
direct encounter with God, right?。
And God just show up in your dream or in your bedroom。
and say, "Hey, you know, I want you to do this, right?。
"I want you to stop doing this," right?。
We usually don't have that kind of spiritual encounter。
with God.。
However, if you go back to the story of Abraham。
in the book of Genesis, Genesis 12 to 25,。
and you count how many times God actually appeared。
to Abraham and spoke to him directly, how many times?。
Let me do the calculation.。
Abraham started to follow God when he was 75 years old,。
and he passed away at the age of, very old age,。
175, so he followed God for 100 years,。
for almost a century, and in that 100 years,。
we counted from the book of Genesis, chapter 12 to 25, right?。
How many times God actually appeared to Abraham。
and spoke to him directly, appeared to him visually?。
How many times?。
You wanna make guess?。
Eight times.。
Eight times, eight times only in his entire faith journey.。
Only eight times God appeared to him directly。
and said something to him,。
and if you go to this eight encounters,。
all of the eight encounters are not QA sessions.。
It's not like God show up and,。
"Hey, you wanna ask me some questions?。
"You know, I'll take any question.。
"I'll give you answer."。
No, it's not a QA session with Abraham.。
There's no QA session, and so often,。
God spoke to Abraham directly, not according to his term,。
right, and so often, God says something to Abraham,。
and Abraham did not wanna hear that, right?。
Like, "You have to wait, okay?。
"I'll give you a son, but you have to wait," right?。
You like the answer?。
Of course not, right?。
It's testing your patience.。
And so often, God show up to Abraham and spoke to him,。
and leaving him, after the encounter,。
leaving him even more confused, right?。
So if you would choose,。
would you want to receive the word of God like Abraham did?。
I wouldn't do that, right?。
It's so puzzling, and it's so mind-boggling, right?。
You show up, and then you said something to me,。
I didn't wanna hear that, right?。
But you said, "Trust me," right?。
And then you disappear.。
Eight times only, in 100 years.。
I wouldn't wanna be Abraham.。
You know, I wouldn't want to envy him.。
But for me, being people in Christ now,。
having the whole Bible already revealed to us, right?。
The Old Testament and New Testament。
is a complete revelation of God's will,。
clear and loud, right?。
The Bible, we all have it,。
has all the clear principles of following God.。
All the moral, spiritual requirements,。
the ways of God are clear,。
clearly spelled out on the pages of Scripture.。
And that's why we have to say,。
we are the people of the book.。
We need to follow the book, right?。
We need to learn how to read it,。
and read the word of God more and more.。
Dive into it, understand it,。
and struggle to interpret it,。
to understand it, and apply it into our lives.。
So today, as the first part of our series,。
I would like to end with two take-homes.。
First, we all have 24 hours.。
Take the best time period of your day.。
Some of us are morning persons,。
some of us are not, right?。
Your best hour, what would that be, right?。
Maybe at noon, or maybe at night,。
whatever that is, take at least 10 minutes a day。
to read the Bible.。
If you don't know where to start, okay,。
let me suggest to you, if you're new believers,。
start with one of the gospels,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
either one of the four, right?。
You can start with Gospel of John,。
read one chapter a day.。
It will take you less than 10 minutes, right?。
If you're believers for quite a long time, right,。
and you don't know where to start now, right,。
well, you can start with the Old Testament,。
the book of Psalms.。
There are 150 Psalms, right?。
You can read one Psalm a day.。
Take at least 10 minutes in your,。
what we call quiet time, or devotional,。
to read part of the Bible, all right?。
I'm not asking you to read it in one sitting,。
cover to cover.。
No one can do that, right?。
Take at least 10 minutes a day to read the Bible,。
and to meditate on it, right?。
Take it, store it in your mind, right?。
Remember it, kind of remember the sketch of the passage,。
and bring it with you in your work, right?。
You go about your daily life,。
go grocery shopping, or whatever you're doing.。
You know, just from time to time,。
remember that, and to reflect upon it.。
And today, I take the suggestions。
from one of our brothers, James,。
that we are going to do the verse of the month, okay?。
Verse of the month.。
I'll take one verse of the Bible,。
and actually, it's not verse of the month,。
verse of the week, okay?。
Verse of the week.。
I'll take one verse of the Bible every single week,。
and we're going to meditate on it,。
and we're going to memorize it, okay?。
We're going to recite it together as a congregation,。
as a family of God, we're going to read it,。
and remember it, and memorize it, right?。
Next week, we come back, we're going to reveal,。
and it's going to be another verse for next week.。
How about that?。
Pretty good suggestion, right?。
Yeah, thank you, brother.。
Yeah, so our verse of the week is this.。
Your word is the lamp to my feet,。
and the light for my path.。
Can we read it together?。
Have Lucy come up here.。
Let's read it together, Psalm 119, 105, okay?。
119, 105, you have to memorize the reference as well, okay?。
It's from Psalm 119, verse what?。
105, okay?。
Let's recite it together, all right?。
Psalm 119, verse 105.。
Your word is the lamp to my feet,。
and the light for my path.。
Wonderful word, right?。
Yeah, the word of God, may it be the lamp and the light。
for our daily walk, right?。
You may face different trials and temptations,。
but may the word of God feed you.。
He can give you strength, right?。
Give you the power to live the life God intend to you,。
to live.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father God, we give you thanks for your word.。
I wanna give you thanks because you are the God。
who still speaks.。
You speak through your word.。
Speak through your scripture.。
And I just pray for all the brothers and sisters here.。
May we continue to dig into your word,。
to meditate on it day and night,。
so that we will receive blessing from you,。
to grant us strength, grant us the ability,。
the amount of grace that we need。
to go on tackling with different challenges in our lives。
so that we can live the spiritual life。
you intended us to live.。
Thank you for calling us to be your people.。
We are indeed the people of your word, people of the book.。
May your word dwell in our hearts and our mind,。
and be our guidance, be our principle.。
Indeed, your word is the lamp unto our feet。
and the light unto our path.。
Help us to rely on you, to draw close to you。
by reading your word, to study the word together,。
to have Bible study to remind each one of us。
the reality of your spiritual life,。
reality of our relationship with you.。
Thank you for being our God who loves us so much.。
Again, we wanna give you thanks, praise you,。
praise you for the fact that you reveal your will。
through scripture.。
Thank you, God.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
(gentle piano music)。
Well, we'll end our service here,。
and we have some refreshment out there。
in the cafe or coffee or tea or just water.。
So stay behind for some time of fellowship。
and say hi to your new friends。
and say hi to our neighbors.。
