(audience clapping)。
- Hello, hello.。
Okay, good morning, UV.。
Thank you for welcoming me to your church and your community.。
It was a pleasure to spend some time。
with the kids this morning and to be able to,。
yeah, speak from the word of God with you all today.。
So if you have some non-believer friends or family。
and you have tried to share the gospel with them,。
I'm sure at some point you will run into some questions。
along the line of, if there is a God,。
or if God is really good, why is there so much suffering。
and evil in our world?。
Well, for some people, this are maybe just a way。
for them to discredit the Christian God,。
but I feel like for the rest of the people,。
this is a legitimate and reasonable questions。
just coming from either their personal experience。
or just the things that they have seen around the world.。
And if I'm just being honest,。
I feel like even a lot of times as Christians,。
we don't really have any adequate answers。
to this question as well.。
And living in a big city like Chicago,。
if we just pay attention or open our eyes。
to our surrounding, it is not hard for us。
to see a lot of brokenness, injustice, and suffering。
that is in such close proximity with us, right?。
And at times like this, these questions of evil。
and suffering become even more relevant.。
So my questions for today is, as the people of God,。
how should we face the suffering and pain in our lives?。
As believers, how do we suffer differently。
than the rest of the world?。
So today, we're going to take a look at Psalm 39。
and see how it approaches these questions.。
I will be reading from the NIV version,。
so if you have a different version,。
you can feel free to follow along on the screen behind me.。
So Psalm 39 is attributed to David,。
but the actual circumstances behind these Psalms。
is not clear.。
But what we can know is this,。
this is an individual lament to the Lord,。
and this is a Psalm that is basically lament,。
pouring out a complaint to the Lord.。
So let's look at Psalm 39 together.。
(pages rustling)。
Verse one.。
I say, I will watch my ways and keep my tongue from sin.。
I will put a muzzle on my mouth。
while in the presence of the wicked.。
So I remain utterly silent, not even saying anything good.。
But my anguish increases.。
My heart grew hot within me.。
While I meditated, the fire burned.。
Then I spoke with my tongue.。
So before we can answer the questions。
of how, as the people of God,。
we can suffer differently than the rest of the world,。
we first need to come to terms that, as believers,。
we are actually not exempt from suffering in this life.。
Again, as believers,。
we are not exempt from suffering in this life.。
In verse one, we see that the Psalmist,。
he chooses to remain silent and to restrain himself,。
and this is for two reasons.。
First, so that he does not sin against the Lord.。
And secondly, because the evil and the wicked are present.。
Again, the actual circumstances behind the Psalmist。
is not clear, but it is very possible。
that these wicked people have somewhat contributed。
to his suffering as well.。
And one of the realities of living in a broken。
and fallen world is that even sometimes。
our best attempt to do the right thing。
might actually bring us undesirable results.。
Maybe some of you here,。
you might lose a job promotion at your work。
because you choose to hold on to your Christian ethics。
or Christian morals.。
Or maybe for some of you,。
you might become a target or outcast。
in different social settings because, once again,。
you choose to remain outspoken about your faith.。
And maybe for some of you, you might lose a friendship。
because you choose to speak the truth and remain truthful.。
And this is exactly what the Psalmist is experiencing here.。
Despite his best effort to do the right thing,。
which in this case is to restrain himself。
and to not speak up,。
we see that his situation actually become worse。
and that the anguish increase within him,。
his anguish intensify.。
So, can you sense the frustration。
that the Psalmist is experiencing right here?。
And can you think of similar situation。
in your personal life as well?。
Maybe you know that you are doing the right thing.。
You know that you are doing the way。
that God would want you to do,。
but the outcome of it might just not be favorable。
towards you.。
And as a result of that, we see that the Psalmist,。
he could no longer hold back his silence。
and he finally decide to speak up.。
So, listen to what he has to say。
when he finally decide to speak up.。
So, verse four.。
Show me, Lord, my life's end and the number of my days.。
Let me know how fleeting my life is.。
You have made my days a mere hand breath.。
The span of my years is as nothing before you.。
Everyone is but a breath, even those who seem secure.。
Surely everyone goes around like a mere phantom.。
In vain they rush about, heaping up wealth。
without knowing whose it will finally be.。
And so, let us just pause here for a moment.。
This three verse that we have just read through,。
the imagery that if you just try to like。
paint a picture of it, it is actually kind of bleak。
and in some ways hopeless, right?。
And so, again, before we can answer the questions。
of how as the people of God we can suffer differently,。
we need to acknowledge that suffering and death。
is part of our human experience,。
living in a broken and fallen world.。
So, what is the Psalmist's request here。
to the Lord in verse four?。
He asks, "Show me, Lord, my life's end。
"and the number of my days.。
"Let me know how fleeting my life is."。
In some of the more recent scholarship,。
verse four is interpreted not as a request。
to know how brief his human life is,。
because you already know and acknowledge that。
in verse five and six.。
But right here in verse four,。
this is actually a request to know。
how long his suffering would last.。
Again, because he understands that suffering and death。
is just part of human experience, living in this world.。
And the urgency of this request。
to know how long his suffering would last。
is then further reinforced by his own acknowledgement。
in verse five and six that,。
"Yes, surely, life is indeed brief,。
"and even our human effort can be meaningless as well."。
So, our English translation might not capture this well,。
but in these three verses,。
there's a Hebrew word that is being repeated twice。
that is the Hebrew word hevel.。
It is being translated as mere hand breath in verse five,。
and in verse six, it is being translated as in vain.。
So, this word hevel is actually a major theme。
in the wisdom literature of Ecclesiastes.。
And in a more literal sense,。
it just means something like a breath or a vapor.。
And in a more metaphorical sense,。
it can refer to something that is fleeting or elusive.。
So, in the book of Ecclesiastes,。
with everything under the sun being deemed as hevel。
or being deemed as meaningless,。
the author actually concludes at the end of the book。
that, "The end of the matters, all has been heard.。
"Fear God and keep his commandment,。
"for this is the whole duty of man."。
In other words, the author of Ecclesiastes。
is trying to say is that,。
"The only things that truly give meaning and purpose。
"to this life is a life that is live with God,。
"a life that is live with God,。
"that is fear God and keep his commandment."。
So, similarly here in Psalm 39,。
we see that by acknowledging。
how short and transient human life is,。
the psalmist is actually agreeing。
with the book of Ecclesiastes that,。
"Yes, life apart from God is indeed meaningless or hevel."。
And we will actually see this being more clearly。
pan out in the second half of the Psalms.。
So, now knowing that sin, suffering, and death。
are just inevitable part of our human life,。
where does this leave us as the people of God?。
Where does this leave us as believers?。
And what is the main thing that actually differentiate us。
than the rest of the world in the way that we suffer?。
If we continue to look in verse four,。
I think the psalmist actually provide us with some clues.。
So, look with me in verse seven.。
So, verse seven,。
"But now, Lord, what do I look for?。
"My hope is in you."。
So, yes, we know that sin and suffering。
are just inevitable part of our human life。
because we live in a fallen world.。
However, as the people of God,。
we do not have to face these realities。
with despair or hopelessness.。
As the people of God,。
we have a greater hope in the eternal God himself.。
So, today, what I really want to press in on our heart。
is this, that even in the midst of our sin and suffering,。
we can hope in the Lord.。
Even in the midst of our sin and suffering,。
we can hope in the Lord.。
And this is a difference, brothers and sisters.。
This is the thing that actually set us as believer,。
as people that believe in the Lord,。
that believe in Jesus.。
This is the thing that sets us apart。
from the rest of the world in the way that we suffer。
because with God as our eternal hope,。
we can put our hope in him,。
even in the midst of our sin and suffering.。
And I want to be clear right here.。
The way that the psalmist used the word hope in verse seven。
is probably very different than the way。
that we use the word hope in our current day and age.。
Maybe some of you here are students。
and or think back to your time as a student,。
you might completely butcher your final exams。
and when it is time to get your grade back,。
you might use the word hope in this sense of like,。
"Oh man, I just hope that I can pass this test。
"so that I don't have to retake the entire class."。
Or maybe some of you are new parents。
that have some younger kids at home。
and you just haven't been able to sleep。
for the past, I don't know, week or two weeks,。
and you might use the word hope in this sense of,。
"Oh, I just hope that I can get。
"maybe just four hours of sleep tonight."。
Again, this is not what the word hope means here。
and this is not how the psalmist used the word hope。
in verse seven here.。
In contrast to the meaningless or the heavel of life。
that he talks about in the previous verse,。
right here in verse seven,。
the object of the hope is actually anchored。
in the one that is from everlasting to everlasting.。
The object of our hope is anchored。
in the one who never fell on his promises。
and the one who will never change.。
In other words, the object of our hope。
is anchored in the eternal God himself,。
just as the psalmist confidently proclaimed,。
"My hope is in you, Lord."。
So, what are some of the grounds。
of our confidence in the Lord。
and why is he our only hope as the people of God?。
So, let's follow along the psalmist。
as he pour out his request to the Lord.。
Verse eight.。
Save me from all my transgression.。
Do not make me the scorn of fools.。
I was silent, I would not open my mouth,。
for you are the one who has done this.。
Remove this scourge from me.。
I am overcome by the blow of your hand.。
When you rebuke and discipline anyone for their sin,。
you consume their wealth like a moth.。
Surely, everyone is but a breath.。
Hear my prayer, Lord.。
Listen to my cry for help.。
Do not be deaf to my weeping,。
for I dwell with you as a foreigner,。
a stranger, as all my ancestors were.。
Look away from me, that I may enjoy life again。
before I depart and am no more.。
So, the biggest reason that we can put our hope in the Lord。
and that he is our only hope。
is because ultimately, he is the only one。
who can deliver us from our sins.。
So, more than the threats of the wicked。
that we have seen in verse one。
and the threat that comes from the outside,。
the psalmist understand that ultimately,。
what he needs to be delivered from。
is something that is within him, that is his own sins.。
And again, I feel like a lot of times,。
speaking for myself, when things doesn't go right,。
it is easy, again, for me to point my fingers。
at things that is outside of me,。
maybe my circumstances, different people,。
different relationships.。
But how often do we actually take a look within ourself。
and to examine our own heart?。
I think this is a good practice that we should all,。
yeah, be aware of.。
A lot of times, instead of blaming the things。
that is outside of us, that is not out of control,。
we also have to take a look within ourself as well.。
So, yes, we can hope in the Lord。
even in the midst of our sin and suffering。
because he is the only one that can deliver us.。
But I also want you all to hear this.。
God's deliverance does not necessarily。
preclude divine discipline.。
Or sometimes, the way that God delivered us。
is actually through his divine discipline。
or his divine wrath.。
This is because the divine wrath and discipline of the Lord。
is actually a means of grace that is with the purpose。
to bring us into an awareness of our own sins,。
of our own shortcoming, so that we can come before the Lord。
in repentance, in confession, asking him for forgiveness.。
In other words, it is actually for our own good。
that the Lord has disciplined us。
and to deliver us from our own sins.。
And again, this is what the psalmist is experiencing。
right here from verse nine to 11.。
So, having the awareness of the futility of life。
and also the awareness of his own sins,。
it prompts the psalmist to cry out one last time。
to the Lord.。
He say, "Hear my prayer, Lord.。
"Listen to my cry for help.。
"Do not be deaf to my weeping,。
"for I dwell with you as a foreigner,。
"a stranger, as all my ancestors were."。
So right here, again, he cried out to the Lord,。
asking the Lord to hear his prayer,。
do not be deaf to his cry,。
and to not be silent to his tears.。
And what is the reason of that?。
Because he understands that, he say,。
"For I dwell with you as a foreigner,。
"a stranger, as all my ancestors were."。
And by comparing himself to a foreigner or a stranger,。
the psalmist understand that,。
ultimately, his final destination is not this short。
and transient life on this earth,。
but he's actually on his way to a life。
that will last for eternity.。
He understands that the power of sins over him。
is only temporary,。
because one day he will not only be free。
from the power and the penalty of sins,。
but when he spend eternity with the Lord,。
he will be free from the presence of sins forever as well.。
In other words, he knows that he has a place。
in the family of God.。
This is why he emphasized to the Lord that,。
"I dwell as a foreigner with you.。
"I dwell with the Lord as a stranger."。
And if we just continue, in verse 13,。
we see that the psalm just sort of ends abruptly,。
with the psalmist asking the Lord。
to turn away his angry gaze from him。
so that he is able to enjoy the remainder of his life.。
And we actually find no resolution。
or no response from the Lord in the psalm itself.。
So, we've come to the end of these psalms,。
but I want to turn our attention to this.。
The silence that the psalmist is facing from the Lord,。
pouring out his request before the Lord,。
but hearing no response, at least within the psalmist.。
I think the psalmist is actually not alone。
in facing this deafening silence from the Lord.。
I know last week we observed Good Friday。
and celebrate Easter Sunday.。
So, we're probably very familiar with this.。
Right before Jesus' death at the cross,。
he pours out the cry quoted from Psalm 22.。
"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"。
And I feel like a lot of time we can just。
kind of like brush off the magnitude。
of this cry from Jesus.。
But this person that make this cry at the cross,。
this is the outcry of Jesus, the Son of God,。
bearing the sins of the world。
and facing kind of like the wrath。
from his own Father as well.。
But we know that as the obedient Son of God,。
Jesus understands that the only way。
to resurrection and glorification。
is actually through his suffering at the cross.。
So, speaking about this, the book of Hebrews。
described that Jesus, as the author。
and perfecter of our life,。
"For the joy sets before him,。
"he endured the cross, despising its shame."。
And so Jesus' example actually becomes a paradigm。
for all of us as believers on how we are。
to make our journey on our life on this earth。
with all his suffering, with all his pain.。
And we are able to endure our journey through this life。
because Jesus not only provide us with the way。
through his death and resurrection at the cross,。
but Jesus actually also sets an example of endurance。
for us to follow.。
And this is why he is our only hope。
in the midst of our sin and suffering.。
The reason that Jesus is our only hope。
in the midst of our sin and suffering。
is because he is the only one not just providing。
the means for us to be reconciled to God。
through his death and resurrection,。
but he's also the only one that lives a perfect life。
for us to follow.。
So from the time that we put our faith in Jesus。
to the time that Jesus comes again,。
Jesus basically model for us on how we are。
to live our life.。
And he is the only perfect example for us.。
So maybe some of you here,。
you're in a season where you're just standing face to face。
with suffering or just with a lot of brokenness,。
whether it is physically, relationally,。
emotionally, or mentally.。
Or maybe are you in a season。
where the realities and pressure of life。
just feels so overwhelming.。
Or maybe like the psalmist here in Psalm 39,。
you are currently just facing the deafening silence。
from the Lord, despite countless days and nights。
of prayers and fasting.。
And if I'm being honest, I am familiar with this currently.。
Or perhaps there's just a particular sin。
or addiction in your life that you have prayed。
and asked the Lord to kind of like remove you from,。
but you're just struggling to overcome.。
Of course, I want to acknowledge。
that all of these experience are true and real,。
and I don't view them lightly.。
But maybe, just maybe at the same time,。
this might be an opportunity for us。
to learn how to hope in the Lord.。
How to put our faith and trust in Jesus.。
Again, because our faith does not just get perfected。
in an instance.。
To be able to hope in the Lord。
actually requires a lot of practice.。
It requires constantly coming before the Lord,。
asking Him, and in some ways, when He responds to us,。
that are the basis of our future hope in Him as well.。
So once again, before I end,。
I want to encourage you all with the truth。
that the psalmist here in Psalm 39。
that even in the midst of our sin and suffering,。
we can put our hope in the Lord.。
So I'm gonna pray us, so let's bow our head in prayers.。
Heavenly Father, we just want to give our praise。
and give our thanks to you.。
For you are our hope,。
and we are grateful to you.。
For you are the only one that we can put our hope in,。
and the only one that would never fail us.。
Jesus, we praise you,。
for you are the only one that provide the means。
for us to be able to reconcile to the Father again.。
And you're not only a God, but you are fully human as well.。
A great high priest who is able to empathize。
with our weakness,。
because you have been tended in every way,。
just as we are, yet without sin.。
So even when we face just a different suffering。
and challenges that life thrown at us,。
we know that Lord, we know that Jesus,。
you know how he feels,。
and you are with us in the midst of our sin and suffering.。
Holy Spirit, we thank you for,。
you are the living and active spirit living in us.。
You intercede for us when we do not know。
what we ought to say or what we ought to pray for.。
And yet, you know our hearts,。
and you pour out your prayers on our behalf before the Father.。
Lord, would you just teach us。
to learn how to put our hope in you。
in a way that honors you,。
in a way that brings glory to you,。
in a way that show the broken world。
that our God is a God that is worthy of all the praise。
and all the glory and all the honor.。
So we pray this in your son's name, amen.。
(piano music)。
