Thank you, I'm excited to be here today.。
Always love being here at UV and enjoyed the worship.。
Thank you to the singers and musicians who led us, that was really excellent.。
And this morning we're going to be talking about why we're here in general, why we're。
here.。
Not just the big existential question, we're not really going to address that.。
That's a great question and just as a spoiler, the Bible has some really good answers to。
that question as to why we're here on earth, why we exist, what our purpose is.。
We're going to talk more specifically about why we're here today on a Sunday, why we're。
in church, why are we here in church, why do we gather together, why do we do this and。
what some of the reasons are for that.。
And we're going to look in the third chapter of John.。
As we, before we read this, I'm going to remind us what's going on in the third chapter of。
John, in the third chapter of John, Nicodemus, who's a Pharisee, he's a part of the nobility。
and also the religious leadership in Jerusalem.。
He comes to Jesus and he comes at night because he doesn't want anyone to know that he's talking。
to Jesus because Jesus is not in favor with the religious leaders, with the Pharisees.。
And he comes to Jesus to ask him these spiritual questions.。
So Jesus begins to explain to him about salvation, about how it's the new birth, it's like being。
born again spiritually.。
Jesus talks about the Holy Spirit, he talks about the kingdom of God, he explains some。
really deep stuff to Nicodemus.。
And in the middle of this passage, there is John 3, 16, right, the verse that we all know。
so well, where Jesus is talking some about the gospel and God's love for us.。
And so that's the, we're going to look at John 3, 16 to 19 today, these verses that。
are right in the middle of this passage, that's the context of what Jesus is talking about.。
But we know this as kind of a summation of the gospel and that's exactly what it is.。
But today we're not just going to look at that piece, we're going to look at what it。
means for us in the church, John 3, 16 to 19.。
So I'm going to pray real quickly and then we'll read these verses together.。
God, I just pray that you would be present with us this morning, that you would, through。
the power of the Holy Spirit, really illuminate the scriptures to our hearts, that you would。
speak to us and that we would hear what you have to say, that people would not hear my。
words or my ideas, but that we would hear from you this morning and that your word would。
shape us and change us like it's supposed to and that we would go out from here or from。
wherever we are watching this and be different, be changed and be more like who you want us。
to be, God, in Jesus' name, amen.。
All right, so let's read these verses.。
John 3, 16 to 19, it says, "For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that。
whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life.。
For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the。
world might be saved through him.。
Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned。
already because he has not believed in the name of the only son of God.。
And this is the judgment, the light has come into the world and people love the darkness。
rather than the light because their works were evil."。
Now, this is an important question for us to consider, why are we here?。
Why do we come to church?。
Why is it a part of our lives?。
And if you are not familiar with church or you're not familiar with faith, just initially。
it seems like a strange proposition, right?。
That there would be a day of the week where we would get up and go to a lot of effort,。
you know, we take a shower, get dressed, do all those things and get up early, get in。
our car and go to a place and gather with other people.。
And honestly, sometimes even the people we gather with, to outsiders it doesn't make。
that much sense, right?。
Because we, a lot of times we're very different.。
A lot of times our church gatherings we gather with people who come from different backgrounds。
and different experiences, even different cultures.。
And so, why do we do that?。
Why is it important?。
On the way here this morning, I was a few minutes late getting here because I drove。
past Sauk Stadium, it's right down the street.。
And there was a game today, I'd forgotten they had a home game today, that's why I was。
a few minutes late, because I got caught in some of that traffic.。
But that's something that we all understand, like why do you go to a baseball game?。
Well, because it's fun and you know, they have overpriced food that's really good and。
so that's why you go, you go to enjoy it and have a good time.。
But why are we here?。
Why do we do this?。
Or why would you even, if you're part of the virtual audience, why would you say, "Hey,。
I'm gonna make an appointment in my week, set aside some time to make sure that I tune。
in and I listen to some brothers and sisters in Christ worshipping God and I worship with。
them and I listen to the word of God being talked about."。
Why do that?。
It doesn't make a lot of sense on the face of it.。
And one of the things that happens sometimes in church is we just kind of take that question。
for granted.。
We don't really think about it or think about the answers to it, we just take it for granted。
and we just show up without ever asking it or we just engage in church.。
If you're watching the live stream, maybe just engage without ever asking it.。
Until the day that we find out we don't really have a good answer and then we just stop showing。
up.。
There's no reason to.。
And we know that that actually happens.。
It happens to people in the church.。
The data is really clear on that.。
In the decade prior to the COVID-19 pandemic from 2009 to 2019, Pew Research reported that。
church attendance dropped in North America, in the US, by 7% during that decade.。
And the Barna Research Group, which is another group that does research amongst church goers,。
they reported that during the pandemic, 32%, a third of people who identified as practicing。
Christians, so these were people who self-identified as serious about faith and about church, related。
that they had stopped attending church either in person or virtually, stopped totally.。
They weren't going in person, but they also weren't connected virtually.。
They were just not engaged with church.。
And these statistics are even more stark for young people.。
In 2019, the Barna Group published research that said that among 18 to 29-year-olds who。
grew up in church, 64% were withdrawing from church involvement as an adult after being。
active as a child or a teen.。
So clearly, this is an issue, at least in the US and North America, that people at some。
point decide there's not really a reason for me to be there.。
I'm not sure why I'm there.。
And so they stop showing up.。
They stop being engaged.。
And that's why it's really important for us to consider this question thoughtfully and。
biblically, and that's what we're going to try to do this morning.。
And I want to start by being honest and saying that there are a lot of problems in church,。
and we don't do well to try to ignore those or to try to cover them over.。
In our modern church, especially here in North America, there's a lot of problems.。
There's a lot of mess.。
I mean, there's a lot of good reasons to want to disengage and to say, "I'm not sure that。
I want to be there because of some of the things that go on."。
At times, instead of reflecting the character of Jesus to the world, the church kind of。
stinks, kind of smells bad of selfishness and hypocrisy or dysfunction and conflict。
or legalism or materialism and chasing after money, even abuse.。
Those are things that happen in the church.。
They shouldn't, and they're dishonoring to God and they're heartbreaking, but they do.。
And so we understand why there might be moments for people in church and for us to say, "I。
kind of want to disengage because of what I'm seeing."。
We can all find reasons to withdraw.。
So what reasons are good enough to keep us here?。
Are there reasons that are good enough to keep us here?。
As we think about this initially, you know, a lot of stuff might come to mind, and some。
of those reasons might be partial answers to the question.。
Some of them are a part of the true answer to why we're here, but some of them are just。
incorrect and wrong.。
There's a lot of reasons that we come that may not be healthy, and some of them are tied。
to wrong assumptions about what church is.。
And some of those things that we might initially think of, you know, there's obviously sociological。
reasons that we can attend church.。
Experts even who are not believers agree that it's good for our mental health and our sense。
of well-being and purpose in life to have kind of the purpose that faith gives us and。
to find community in church.。
So there's sociological reasons.。
There's emotional reasons.。
Again, according to the Barna Group, most people that regularly attend church report。
that they experience enjoyment at church and cite this as a main reason for attending.。
Church can make us feel good and help us to get through the week, and we can enjoy the。
worship or we can be entertained by things that go on at church.。
Or maybe we just really like to see our friends.。
We get excited about seeing friends and acquaintances that we have at church.。
Well, those things are wonderful.。
Those are great things, but that's not the primary reason we're here.。
That's not the heart of why we come.。
Then there are some of us who engage with church, whether it's in person or virtually,。
we do it just because it's a habit, right?。
We've always done it.。
It's a part of our week.。
It's a part of our routine.。
We just do it out of habit.。
At times, some of us probably have participated in church out of a sense of obligation.。
I grew up in church, so that's been true for me at different times, especially as a young。
person.。
I did it because I thought I was supposed to, and I thought it was expected of me, and。
perhaps that's one of the reasons that we participate.。
We feel like our parents or our family members or other friends or people around us or even。
the leaders of the church are really expecting us to be a part, and so we do it out of obligation.。
And there can be cultural reasons, too.。
Sometimes we feel like that it's just what we do, what people of our cultural class,。
social class, our economic class or our group, that's what we do.。
Even some people are engaged in church because of their political affiliation, not because。
they know Jesus, but just because they think it's what you do when you're a certain type。
of person in society.。
And then there's spiritual reasons, too.。
We can participate in church because we're trying to justify ourselves in some way, because。
we're trying to show that we're a good person, and maybe we're trying to convince ourselves。
of that.。
Maybe we're trying to, we know some stuff's not right in our life, and so we're trying。
to be like, "Well, I want to be good, and so I guess that means I go to church."。
Or maybe we're trying to convince someone else.。
Maybe we're trying to show other people that we're a good person.。
We're like, "Yeah, I'm someone who goes to church.。
I mean, I'm a solid person.。
I'm a churchgoer."。
Or maybe we're even trying to convince God.。
Maybe we're trying to earn something with God by showing up at church, and by saying,。
"Yeah, God, I'm a good person.。
I've been going to church, so shouldn't you answer my prayers, or shouldn't you care about。
me more, because I've been trying to do this."。
The reality is none of these reasons are really adequate to explain why we're here, and why。
we should be here, or to keep us here in the future.。
Some of them are true and helpful, like the fact that we can find enjoyment, and encouragement,。
and support, and community.。
That's true, and that's a part of the true reason we're here, and that's a beautiful。
thing.。
But some of them are wrong.。
If we think that going to church justifies us before God or anyone else, that's wrong.。
That's just not true.。
And even the best of these answers are really just byproducts of the true answer.。
The enjoyment, the blessing, the community we find, that's really a byproduct of the。
true answer.。
It's not the answer in full.。
So to really find the ultimate answers, we need to go back to God's Word and look at。
this.。
That's what we're going to do together this morning.。
And here in verse 16, we see the first part of this answer for us.。
We're here because God is there.。
God exists.。
That phrase is something that the late theologian Francis Schaeffer used to say, I think he。
actually taught a book, "The God Who Is There," and he spoke about the God of the Bible as。
the God who is there, the God who exists.。
And this is really big and foundational.。
This passage in verse 16 begins with the words, "For God, for God so loved the world, for。
God."。
And the existence of God is assumed as an established fact here.。
And this truth is an essential part of why the church exists and why we're gathered here。
today because God exists, God is there.。
If we're unsure about this, then it's certainly easy to be confused about the need to be here,。
to show up, to be connected to a church or the need to gather together if we're not sure。
if God exists.。
The whole Bible begins with a statement about God.。
It says, "In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth."。
And from this verse and a lot of other verses throughout scripture, it's clear that God。
is the central character of the narrative of scripture.。
He's also the creator, he's the first cause of the universe, and ultimately that tells。
us that this is God's universe and this is his earth and this is his story.。
He created us in love and he has lovingly allowed us to take part in his story, but。
we're taking part in God's narrative, not the other way around.。
God's not a little piece that gets added on to our narrative.。
That's usually how we view it in life, that we're, it's about our narrative and God, we。
ask God to come take part in what we're doing.。
But it's actually the opposite, that's true.。
This universe is God's narrative and out of God's love, he allows us to take part in his。
story.。
But his existence is the bedrock of reality in this universe and it defines everything。
else.。
It defines our existence.。
We exist because God exists.。
So I want us to think about this for a minute here, spend a little extra time talking about。
this because God's existence is really foundational to a lot of the other reasons that we're here,。
that we gather together.。
And it's also something that's really attacked in our modern culture and a lot of us have。
probably experienced moments of doubt or skepticism or wondering or questions about the existence。
of God or his nature and that's okay.。
Honestly, that's a healthy thing for us to do.。
Acknowledging those doubts and those questions allows us to wrestle with them and to take。
them to God, to examine God's word and to actually find answers.。
So that's really healthy for us.。
If we never acknowledge those doubts and those questions, then the questions never get answered。
and eventually we would just walk away assuming that there are no answers to those questions。
and that's not true.。
There are.。
God has answers for us and so it's healthy for us to wrestle with those.。
So if you're someone today who says, "I'm kind of wrestling with that a little bit,"。
with is God really there?。
Does he exist?。
Is he real?。
What is his nature like?。
I want us to just talk briefly about this, okay?。
And I want to point out that if we're struggling with the existence of God and we're saying。
maybe God isn't there, then there are actually three really big questions that we have to。
answer if we're trying to escape the truth of God's existence.。
And the first one is if God isn't there, if there is no God, then why are we here?。
How do we explain the presence of really anything else in the universe?。
There's really not a naturalistic evidence-based explanation for the beginning of the universe。
because even though we can say, "Well, we can look at evidence from the very early history。
of the universe," we have no evidence of what came before.。
It's a physical impossibility for us to know what came before because there was nothing。
before the universe existed.。
And so even all of the best explanations of the best scientific minds in our world when。
it comes to how the universe came into existence go into metaphysical territory.。
People talk about maybe there was oscillating universes or some type of multiverses or all。
these things like that, but those are metaphysical explanations.。
There's no evidence, no scientific evidence we can have that any of that's true.。
So even the best scientists and the smartest people in the world can't say what began the。
universe, what started the whole thing.。
The Bible tells us that God did.。
And there are other good reasons to believe that what the Bible says is true, but the。
Bible tells us that God did.。
So that's something that points to the existence of God.。
It's a proof of God's existence, the fact that the universe is here itself, the fact。
that we exist and everything else that we see is here.。
If God did not exist, where did those things come from?。
The other thing that we have to think about is if God doesn't exist, where do we get our。
innate sense of morality of right and wrong?。
And why is it that us as humans, even those of us who claim no religious affiliation or。
belief at all, are still really convinced about certain things that they believe to。
be right or wrong, certain things that they believe to be just and unjust.。
All of us as humans have an innate sense of morality.。
It's shaped by our experiences and it's different for different people, but everyone has that。
sense.。
And again, where does that come from?。
We can't explain that without the existence of God.。
We can't just say, "Well, it's there because it's something that humans developed over。
time to help their species survive."。
Well, that's really not a good explanation because a lot of what we believe about justice。
and injustice and a lot of our innate sense of morality transcends our desire, our instinct。
for survival.。
Throughout human history, people have been willing to give up their life for something。
that they believed was right.。
And so it's not just something that we have developed in order to survive as a species,。
it's deeper than that.。
It's more important to us than that.。
And it's there in all of us.。
We all believe some things are right and wrong, even if we don't believe in God or any form。
of faith.。
And the third thing that we have to think about that shows us that God exists is just。
all of the order and complexity and intelligence that we see in our universe.。
Our universe is full of just amazingly complex systems, from the macro on the galactic structure。
level all the way down to the micro, our cells and our DNA.。
And we've seen over the last few years how chaotic things can become, even because of。
microorganisms, right?。
There's a lot more complexity and a lot more intricate, amazing intelligence involved and。
information involved, even on a cellular level, than any of us can even kind of wrap our minds。
around.。
Where does all that come from?。
Again, this is something that points us to the fact that God exists.。
Now we might say, "Okay, well, those things do point us to the fact that God exists, but。
how do we know that the God of the Bible is the God that we're talking about?"。
And one of the things I would point us to there is that the Bible actually is provable.。
The Bible talks about things that we can investigate.。
The Bible has historical and archaeological things that we can look at and go back and。
say, "Okay, this person was talked about.。
Was this a real person?。
This place, was this a real place?"。
And we see that as we do that, the Bible is corroborated by those sources of evidence,。
by history, by archaeology.。
The Bible has prophecies about people that were, where things were predicted in the future,。
and then those people actually lived and did those things.。
Those things came to pass.。
The Bible's internally consistent.。
It agrees with itself.。
Obviously there are lots of things that are difficult to understand in the Bible that。
we have to study out, but the Bible has an internally consistent voice and witness to。
us.。
The text is consistent.。
Over time, it has stayed consistent.。
Honestly, the existence of the church throughout church history is one of the proofs that the。
Bible is true.。
The fact that the church has continued to persevere and thrive in the space of so much。
opposition throughout history.。
You may say, "Okay, those things are helpful, but I'm still not, I don't know, you know,。
I kind of want like a hundred percent proof that God is there."。
If that's what you're seeking, then I would say, "I don't think you're going to find that."。
And here's why.。
Because the God who reveals himself in the Bible is a God of love, not a God of force。
and coercion.。
God invites us into a love relationship with him.。
He doesn't say, "Hey, I'm going to give you so many, so much evidence, and I'm going to。
beat you over the head with it until the only thing you can do is choose to be in a relationship。
with me."。
God doesn't do that.。
God doesn't force anyone to believe in him.。
But he says, "Hey, I'm going to give you enough to quiet your fears, and then I'm going to。
invite you to trust me and to love me."。
That's the God who is there.。
And ultimately, that's why we're here today.。
We're not here in church just because it's a fairy tale, but we keep showing up because。
we haven't figured it out.。
We're not here in church just because it's good for our mental health to be around each。
other and to believe in something.。
That's great that it is.。
It's a byproduct of the truth.。
But we're here because this is real, because God is real.。
He really exists.。
He's really there.。
And that's the foundation of why we're here, because God is there.。
Next thing we see in this passage is that God loves us.。
We're here because God loves us.。
As we read further in verse 16, Jesus, and remember, this is Jesus talking to Nicodemus.。
So when we're reading verses 16 to 19, Jesus himself is speaking these words.。
Jesus tells us that not only does God exist, but also that God is a loving God who loves。
us specifically.。
And this is such wonderful news.。
Just knowing that there's an all-powerful creator God, even if we believe that, that's。
not so much of a comfort, because what if God is angry or mean or vindictive?。
But the Bible tells us that not only is God there, but he also loves us.。
And he loves specifically.。
And what I mean by that is that God doesn't just love the earth, love us, love everybody.。
He does.。
He loves globally.。
But he also loves specifically.。
He loves you.。
He loves me.。
And this really has enormous implications for our worth and our value as humans, our。
lives.。
We are created in God's image, but we're objects of his love.。
The fact that we're valued by the most powerful being in the universe means we have worth。
and value that no one else or no thing else can take away.。
Our lives matter and God loves us.。
And that's true for each one of us, because God loves you specifically, not just globally.。
His love is directed towards you.。
And as Pastor Mark was mentioning earlier, when we go through those challenges of life,。
those uncertainties, those job challenges or trouble in school or things that we can't。
figure out or issues in a relationship with someone else and we're hurt or we're confused。
or we don't know what to do, we need to know that God loves us and loves us specifically。
and cares about our lives.。
And we see that that is why we are here today in church.。
We're not just here out of habit or routine.。
We're not just here because we don't know what else to do on Sunday morning.。
We're here because God loves us.。
He loves you.。
He loves me.。
We're objects of His love.。
And that's why we show up.。
That's why we're here.。
Next we see in this verse that God has revealed Himself to us.。
God has spoken.。
We see this in verse 19.。
It tells us that the light has come into the world.。
The statement makes it clear that God has shined on us.。
He's revealed Himself to us.。
God has revealed truths about Himself, about the nature of reality, about the significance。
of what it means to be a human, and about how He wants us to live in relationship with。
Him and with other people, with the people around us.。
God has spoken and revealed that stuff to us.。
He's revealed these things in a long love letter that He wrote to us through human authors。
that we call the Bible or the Word of God, and we call it that because it is spoken by。
God to us.。
And He has told us who He is.。
He's told us who we are.。
He's told us what is good and what is true in life, what is false and evil.。
He's described to us His good and beautiful design for our world and for our lives in。
it, and He's invited us to live in right relationship with Him and with the people around us.。
He's described what that relationship looks like.。
He's been honest with us.。
He's assured us that if we follow His good and beautiful path for our lives, we'll experience。
deep fulfillment and health in our relationship to Him and others, even though we'll still。
live in a broken and fallen and at times painful world.。
But He's also told us that if we reject His overtures of relationship, we'll experience。
separation, and that this separation will lead to unhealthy, self-destructive behavior。
that's damaging to us and the people around us.。
God's been honest.。
He's told us the truth.。
He's revealed that His Word is vibrant and alive with contemporary truth.。
It means something for us today.。
It's without error, and that we need to interact with it.。
We need to read it.。
We need to study it.。
We need to seek to understand what it means, even across the gaps of language and culture。
and history that exists between us in this current moment and the time that it was written.。
That's why it requires listening and study.。
That's why He's instructed us to talk to each other about it and to listen to it, proclaim。
and explain through preaching.。
And then we're supposed to be changed and shaped and formed by it.。
We're supposed to align our lives to God's truth as it's revealed to us.。
We're supposed to let God's truth and God's Word change us, and that's why we're here,。
because God has revealed Himself.。
He has spoken.。
He has something to say to us, and it's significant, and we're supposed to be formed by it.。
The next thing we see in these verses is that we're here because there are heavy realities。
in the universe.。
This passage reminds us of that.。
Verse 16 tells us there's a very real danger that we could be in a state of separation。
from God and perish, as the word that's used in that verse, for eternity.。
The relationship between humans and God was broken by our rejection of Him, and because。
of that, both spiritual and physical death are realities.。
That was the thing that God told the first humans in the garden was, "Hey, if you break。
our relationship, there will be death.。
Death will become a reality."。
And since then, it has been a reality, both physically, that none of us live forever,。
but also spiritually, that we can be separated from God.。
That's a heavy reality.。
Verses 18 and 19 in this passage make it clear that good and evil are real.。
Darkness and light exist in our world, and God's one day going to judge between good。
and evil in our world, in our lives, and in our own actions.。
Now sometimes that's comforting when we think about God judging evil in someone else's life,。
but that's heavy when I think about it in my own life, right?。
It's a heavy reality.。
It's a sobering truth.。
That means the choices that we make in life do matter, and our decisions, they either。
move us towards God or away from God, towards what He's spoken and revealed that is good。
and right, or away from those things, towards life or away from life, towards deeper relationship。
with Him or towards separation.。
That's what God has revealed to us, and that's heavy.。
And that's one of the reasons we're here in church, not just for cultural reasons, certainly。
not for political reasons.。
We're here because this stuff is real and it matters.。
These realities are heavy, and we should care about them, and we do, and that's why we take。
part in church, and we gather together, and we listen to God's Word, because the choices。
that we make have consequences, because there is real good and evil in our world.。
Life's not just some type of game that's a collection of inconsequential choices.。
These things really matter.。
Next thing we see in this verse is that we're here because of Jesus.。
God sent a rescue in verses 16 and 17 to tell us that God sent His Son into the world in。
order that the world might be saved through Him, that whosoever believes in Him should。
not perish but have eternal life.。
Jesus came to rescue us, to save us from sin and death, to forgive our past sins, to reconcile。
us and bring us back into right relationship with God.。
And verse 16 tells us that God provided that rescue because of the greatness of His love。
for us.。
God loved us so much, and that's why He sent the rescue.。
And this is really, really good news, and that's part of the reason, that's the biggest。
part of the reason that we are here today, because Jesus, God sent Him to rescue us,。
to save us.。
Even though we were in a state of continuing to reject God, we were saying, "God, I'm not。
interested, I want to continue to go my own way, and I want to continue to live in selfish。
and self-destructive ways," but God said, "No, I love you anyway, and I'm going to reach。
into your world and rescue you."。
It's an act of God's grace, and that word means unmerited favor, it means we didn't。
deserve it, but God sent the rescue anyway.。
We don't perform work to earn it, to earn the rescue that God sent, we simply accept。
it by faith and receive it, receive God's grace.。
And that tells us something really big about why we're here in church.。
It's not because we're trying to earn favor with God, because we can't, and it's not because。
we're good people.。
Sometimes people inside and outside church think that people come to church because they're。
good, and that's not true.。
People even say like, "Oh, he's a good guy, he goes to church," or "She's a good girl,。
she's there every week," right?。
No, we don't come here because we're good, we come here because we're not, we come here。
because we're imperfect and we know that, and we need Jesus and we need rescue, we need。
saving, and that's why we're here.。
Because we need to be changed, we need help, and because of God's grace and mercy through。
Christ that we are saved and rescued and redeemed and forgiven and healed and reconciled, and。
that's why we're here.。
We're here because we're made new in and through Jesus.。
If we accept God's offer of rescue, that gift, we're restored to right relationship with。
God, and then God begins to work in our heart, and we begin to change.。
Verse 16 tells us that we will have life, and this reminds us that Jesus said that he。
came so that we could have life more abundant and fulfilling and full.。
God's word tells us in other parts of the scripture that in Christ we are made into。
a new creation, and that's a huge part of why we're here, because we want to be made。
new.。
Apart from Christ, before relationship with God, most of us were probably selfish and。
had a lot of things that were unhealthy in our lives.。
I know that's true for me.。
Now that I know Jesus, I'm still selfish and have a lot of unhealthy things in my life,。
but God is at work slowly stripping some of those away and helping me to be more like。
Christ, helping me to love others more, helping me to love my wife more and love my children。
more, helping me to love my community and my neighbors more, helping me to care for。
others in a deeper way, helping me to learn to pursue after and connect with God in a。
different way.。
We call it in church, we call that process sanctification.。
It's just a church word that means that God is changing you and making you more like Jesus,。
and that's why we're here, because we want to be made new.。
We want to hear God's word proclaimed to our hearts.。
We want to change from our selfishness and all the mess that we used to be into a reflection。
of Jesus.。
That's why we're here, because we're made new in Christ.。
And we're here because we're responding to God.。
In verse 18, we see that God is calling us to respond to his love and his rescue with。
belief or faith.。
Whoever believes in him is not condemned.。
God's calling us to respond with belief.。
And the Bible is clear that God wants us to respond to his love.。
We respond to his love as we return it by obeying the truth that he's revealed to us.。
We return his love and respond to his love by making God the object of our praise and。
worshiping him, something that we did this morning, something that we do in church.。
We respond to his love in community.。
God's made it clear that we need the support and encouragement and the help of one another。
and a group to get through life, and certainly to get through life as a follower of Jesus。
is not easy.。
There's a lot of challenges.。
There's a lot of setbacks.。
There's a lot of things that hurt us.。
We need each other.。
And so we respond to God's love by saying, "Okay, I'm going to love the brothers and。
sisters that God has put around me."。
We support and care and pray for one another, even as we struggle with the painful realities。
of living in the world that we live in, where things are broken and where there's conflict。
and there's hatred and there's all these problems.。
We respond to God and his love as we serve side by side and we go out and serve in our。
families but also in our communities, as we reach out to our neighbors, as we practice。
hospitality, as we do the things that the people of God have been known for throughout。
the history of the church, caring for the poor and needy and caring for those who are。
suffering and those who are vulnerable and those who are weak.。
Those are all things that we do as a response to God's love.。
And we do those together in a group with other Jesus followers.。
That's why we're here, because we're responding.。
We're not doing this to show off or to get anything.。
We're doing it because we're responding to what God is already doing in our life.。
And so we're loving each other, we're caring for each other, we're really listening to。
each other, we're supporting, we're praying, we're going out together to serve and to care。
and to try to impact the world around us.。
We're telling the story of Jesus and the good news of how he can change lives.。
Those are things that we're doing together because we're responding to God.。
We're worshiping him, we're praising him together because we're responding to him.。
So those are the reasons, the real reasons that we're here.。
Like I said, it's not because it's a fairy tale, it's not because we don't have anything。
else to do or we're just used to it.。
These things are real and God's clear about these things in his word.。
And as we close, I just want to remind us that the history of the church is full of。
people who knew why they were here, who knew why they were a part of the church, why they。
were participating.。
They were convinced of the realities of these things that we've discussed this morning.。
They were certain of God's existence and of his revelation of truth in his word, the fact。
that God had spoken and revealed himself.。
They were totally convinced of the gospel, the good news of God's love and grace and。
forgiveness through Jesus.。
And because of this, they were consistently and faithfully engaged in church.。
They were gathering together, preaching and discussing God's word together, fellowshipping。
with one another, worshipping God side by side, remembering Christ together, serving。
their neighbors together, sharing the good news with those outside the fellowship and。
caring for those in need.。
And through the history of the church, people have withstood unspeakable persecution and。
life-altering challenges.。
From the first century believers who were, because of their faith, were thrown before。
lions in the Coliseum, to believers in the last century who were imprisoned and tortured。
in oppressive regimes that didn't want people to believe in God, to believers that in this。
very moment are imprisoned or suffering consequences or even their lives are endangered because。
of their faith.。
And throughout that history, there's this testimony of people all along the way, loving。
one another, caring for one another, loving their neighbors, serving the poor, taking。
care of the fatherless and doing all of these things because they knew why they were here.。
They were certain of the truth of God's word.。
And we may not share those experiences and that's okay if you're sitting there going,。
"Wow, I haven't gone through that stuff."。
That's okay.。
I'm grateful for that too.。
But we should share those convictions because we have the same reasons for being here that。
every other believer has throughout the history of the church.。
It's not just a cultural thing, it's not a political thing, it's not just because we're。
trying to be good people or we're trying to show off, it's not because we're trying to。
earn something with God or it's just our Sunday morning habit.。
It's not just because we enjoy it or it feels good, even though those are great blessings,。
it's not just because we want to see our friends, even though that's fantastic.。
But it's because this is real, God is real, his love for us is real, his mercy and salvation。
and forgiveness, those things are all real.。
It's because through Jesus we can really and actually be changed.。
We don't have to be the people we used to be.。
We can be something different.。
We can love and obey God the way that we should and we can love and serve others the way that。
we should.。
And that's why we're here.。
And if that's why we're here, then that will keep us here through all the changes and transitions。
in life as we grow older and we go through different transitions in school and we're。
in college and then we're out of college and we're working and we have families and we。
have children and we are caring for relatives and life is crazy and we're moving and all。
that stuff will continue to be here because we know why we're here.。
Because God is there, he really is at work in our lives, he really does love us and he。
really can change us and he has called us to be together.。
Let's pray.。
God thank you for these truths that we see in your word today.。
God I pray that you would help each one of us to establish these things in our heart。
so that we know why we're here.。
Help us not to be here for unhealthy reasons that won't really sustain us.。
Help us to be convinced of the reality of your truth, of your existence, of your love,。
of your redemption, of the fact that you can change us and that you want us to come together。
to worship and to fellowship and to support and care and serve others together God.。
Help us to be convinced of those things.。
And give us perseverance in all the challenges of life to continue to follow after you, to。
continue to show up and to continue to really love one another side by side and to serve。
our communities and our neighborhoods and our city with the love of Christ.。
God we thank you that you are here with us this morning and we thank you for our brothers。
and sisters in Christ who are here both in this room and in the virtual broadcast.。
God we thank you for those who are here.。
We pray that you would keep us here and continue to add to our number God.。
In Jesus name, amen.。
Thank you very much Stan for your good word.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
God bless you.。
