to a happy Mother's Day.。
Let me begin by a word of prayer.。
I don't know what kind of spiritual condition。
or what kind of emotional condition。
you're coming into the presence of God,。
but I want you to focus on God himself.。
I want you to come in, not to see anyone else,。
but God himself, all right?。
And know that God is for you.。
Know that God is present with you, all right?。
Let's pray.。
Father, we want to praise you.。
We want to come before you and bow our knees.。
And I pray that you will be with us。
and help us to sense that you are with us,。
you are present with us.。
I pray for each and every one of us.。
Perhaps we have been fighting our battles。
in the past week, our past few weeks.。
We are fighting our worries.。
We are dealing with our challenges.。
And sometimes our problems in our lives。
seem insurmountable.。
It seems so big.。
But we come before you, we know that you are bigger。
and you're biggest.。
You're bigger than anything else.。
And you got the whole wide world in your hand indeed.。
And we pray that you will help us to put our trust in you。
and know that you are still in control.。
You are still our king and our leader.。
Pray that you will forgive our sins,。
our shortcomings, our weaknesses.。
And we come before you anew,。
knowing that your grace is always new every single morning.。
So we pray that you will renew our commitment to you,。
our trust in you.。
No matter what barriers we are facing,。
we know that you are bigger than all those challenges.。
And I pray that you're all powerful,。
you're all knowing and your attributes will encourage us。
to rely on you because you are worthy of our following.。
So we pray that you will grant us grace。
to deal with our own depressed, unhappy,。
discomfort or discouragement.。
And I pray that you will encourage each and every one of us。
in the spirit to continue to believe and trust in you.。
Knowing that as we follow you,。
we need to deny ourselves, bear our crosses,。
just like what your son Jesus has done for all of us.。
And I pray that we will be a community。
to encourage one another.。
As we have a Bible study together today,。
we pray that in the word we'll grow together.。
In the word we'll encourage one another。
to build up one another.。
Build up your church for your namesake, for your glory.。
Also wanna pray for the mothers in our midst.。
I pray that you will bless and grant grace。
to every one of them.。
Thank you for our mothers.。
Thank you for your divine appointment。
that we have only one mother。
and the perfect mother for all of us.。
And I pray that you will bless every one of them.。
And thank you for using them, our mothers,。
to extend your love, to show your love.。
Yes, we are all imperfect,。
but you have shown us the perfect love on the cross.。
And thank you, Jesus, in Christ, we pray.。
All right, today we're going to begin。
our new mini-series on the Apostles' Creek.。
Now, James has told us we have our daily devotion。
on the Apostles' Creek.。
So let's read this together.。
All right, let's read this together。
and go through this together.。
We have the whole Apostles' Creek on the screen.。
Now I want you to read this verse with the mentality,。
with the motive to evaluate what we really believe, okay?。
Sometimes when we go to church for a long time。
and we've been to church for some time,。
we have gotten what we truly believe。
or we have truncated our own belief.。
We might have thought or we have truncated our belief。
into just one or two things, and we make up our own idol.。
And in doing that, we are not believing the gospel anymore.。
And sometimes it is always good。
to reveal what we truly believe.。
And the Apostles' Creek is written for such a purpose。
so that we'll do a daily or regular check。
of what you really believe, all right?。
Just like you go to the doctor.。
Now tomorrow, I'll go to the doctor for a regular checkup,。
okay, nothing wrong with me.。
You just have to do it once a year.。
But the doctor will tell me, okay,。
your blood sugar level or your blood pressure。
or anything wrong with me,。
anything I need to pay attention to, right?。
So the Apostles' Creek is doing exactly。
this sort of purpose, to check your belief, okay?。
The Apostles' Creek, let me read the left column.。
I believe in God, the Father Almighty,。
creator of heaven and earth.。
I believe in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord.。
He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit。
and born of the Virgin Mary.。
He suffered under Pontius Pilate,。
was crucified, died, and was buried.。
He descended to the dead.。
On the third day, He rose again.。
He ascended into heaven。
and is seated at the right hand of the Father.。
He will come again to judge the living and the dead.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Universal Church,。
the chameleon of saints, the forgiveness of sins,。
the resurrection of the body, and life everlasting, amen.。
This is the Apostles' Creek.。
Now, it's a quick summary。
to tell you what our basic belief is.。
Of course, it's not just that,。
but it's good enough summary。
to tell you what you truly believe,。
what are the central core beliefs, okay?。
Now, how many of you have been to Chicago for some time,。
for at least one year?。
How many of you?。
All right, no one is new to Chicago, right?。
Now, if someone bump into you。
and say maybe someone who's new to Chicago,。
first time in Chicago,。
and if that someone or your friend is a tourist。
bump into you and ask you,。
hey, how do you get to downtown?。
Can you tell him right away?。
Can you?。
(audience laughing)。
Who cannot?。
Who can tell the someone。
that is the way from here to downtown?。
Who can say that?。
None of you?。
Jesus. (laughs)。
How do you get to downtown from here, right?。
You can probably, immediately,。
you can answer the question, right?。
Now, if you cannot,。
you probably are deceiving yourself, right?。
You haven't been to Chicago, right?。
Perhaps you are being isolated for so long in COVID。
so you don't know the way, all right?。
Now, it's kind of like that, a puzzle squeak.。
It's to tell us what the Bible is all about,。
what the gospel is all about.。
No one can actually read the Bible。
from cover to cover in one sitting.。
No one can understand every single detail in the Bible, okay?。
I have been teaching the Bible,。
I've been studying the Bible,。
I've been reading the Bible almost every single day, all right?。
There are still a lot of things that I don't understand,。
I don't comprehend, all right?。
Amen?。
Amen, right?。
So there are a lot of things。
that I still trying to figure out,。
and I'm struggling with the meaning,。
the significance of some of the Bible passages, right?。
We're gonna have a Bible study later.。
We are going into the book of Genesis,。
the story of Isaac and Jacob, right?。
Right?。
Isaac and Jacob.。
Some of the familiar stories,。
but there were a lot of details probably you don't know,。
or you have no idea that's in the Bible.。
So no one can really understand the Bible。
or comprehend every single thing from cover to cover.。
But the Apostles' Creed is to give us a quick summary。
to tell you and tell me what believing in Christ truly is.。
All right?。
Now I want you to think about it.。
When did you come to faith?。
When did you come to, you know,。
accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior?。
When?。
All right, think about that.。
How many years ago?。
What day?。
What year, what month, and what day?。
And what circumstances?。
That you come to know Christ.。
All right?。
Now, how long have you been a Christian?。
It's a very crucial thing you need to ask yourself.。
Okay?。
Now, think about how long you've been a Christian,。
how long you have known the gospel.。
Have you really known the gospel?。
In the past two years, because of COVID,。
many of the young families in our church, okay,。
including some of you,。
and including some of those in the previous worship service,。
I haven't been able to, you know, see them face to face.。
And I know maybe two years ago, all right,。
two years ago when the lockdown came,。
some of the young families actually had babies.。
They had baby.。
Or they had infant before, right before the lockdown.。
All right?。
But when the lockdown came,。
I was not able to see them, right?。
Now, as the pandemic is easing out, hopefully,。
fading out a little bit,。
and then I see them again, right?。
Now, I did not expect the baby remain baby, right?。
It would be terrible.。
After two years, if the newborn that I've seen。
before the lockdown two years ago,。
and then two years later, they remain baby, right?。
That would be terrible.。
I need to call 911.。
That would be so sad.。
So after two years, when they show up again,。
when they come back to the church, right?。
No longer just seeing each other on Zoom or online.。
They show up and they bring their young ones.。
They are, what do you think?。
Should be walking, right?。
They should be taller, right?。
They should be tallest.。
And indeed, they are now tallest, right?。
And for those who were two years old before the lockdown,。
now they are four years old, right?。
Now, it's a very natural thing to see growth, right?。
At least in the physical sense, right?。
At least in the physical sense, they got taller.。
They got bigger, right?。
Before the lockdown, they could not talk.。
Now, they at least, right?。
At least they can have a conversation, right?。
Now, it is the same thing, isn't it?。
For Christians, for us.。
Rewind the tape, two years ago.。
Where were you spiritually?。
Where were you in your relationship with God?。
How was it?。
Now, two years later, where are you?。
What do you truly believe?。
And have you been growing, right?。
Now, let me give you a very broad brush,。
a very just big picture of our faith journey, right?。
There are some aspects I'm going to tell you。
that if you know Christ,。
if you come to believe in the gospel,。
these aspects, you should see some growth, okay?。
The first one is your habit, all right?。
Your time management.。
Before you came to Christ, you were your own boss, right?。
Every single day, 24/7, you were your own boss.。
How do I use my time, right?。
How do I use every single minute that I have?。
After you know Christ, Christ is on the seat。
of ownership in our lives, right?。
He died on the cross to redeem us,。
and our life belongs to him.。
Habit.。
So two years ago, we went back, all right?。
Or how many years ago you come to know faith,。
come to know Christ?。
Your habits should have changed, right?。
In the, at least in the fundamental way, right?。
Before you know Christ, you used your time,。
you were your own boss, but after you know Christ,。
you need to relate to God.。
You need to build your relationship with God.。
You need to relate to him.。
Have you been reading the word of God。
or getting a better understanding?。
Better, remember, the emphasis is better.。
Have you been getting a better understanding。
of the word of God?。
Are you getting closer to God himself?。
Are you getting closer to the Lord and Savior?。
Week by week, we come to worship.。
It's not because we, there's a checkbox。
in our weekly activities.。
There's checkbox, okay, all right, I got it done, all right?。
And then I just put it aside.。
We come to worship because we bow before the true Lord,。
the true King.。
As believers, we are moving,。
should be moving in a progress.。
From seeker, before you know Christ,。
you may be interested in the gospel,。
may be interested in the church stuff,。
and you come and you try to listen,。
try to understand what Christian faith is all about.。
From seeker, you move on to a spiritual child,。
and then you move on to a spiritual adult,。
young adult or older adult.。
And then you should move on to become a leader, right?。
That is your faith journey.。
That is how your faith journey should be.。
So at least there are fundamental change in your habit,。
in your time management, how do you use your life。
and your hours and your minute, right?。
Second, it's your relationship.。
Relationship with other sisters and brothers in Christ,。
right?。
Interestingly, the Bible always tells us。
there were tons of verses that is about one and other.。
It's about community.。
When we come to know faith,。
we call each other brother and sisters。
or family members in Christ, right?。
And this family, this spiritual family,。
is above all the most important thing.。
God will continue His redemptive work on earth。
through the church, not through the angels,。
not through the government, not through other agencies,。
but through the church, through the people of God.。
That is us, right?。
It's not about numbers.。
Remember in the first century,。
when you opened the pages of the New Testament,。
the churches that we encounter in Corinth, in Ephesus,。
in every single city in the Roman Empire,。
they were the small group church.。
They're very, very small, tiny cell churches.。
But God's plan is to use the church to extend His kingdom,。
extend His rule.。
How do we tell the gospel to the rest of the world?。
God did not use angels.。
God could have,。
but God choose to use His churches in every generation.。
So relationship-wise,。
we should have some fundamental change.。
There was some basic reconfiguration in our relationship。
when we come to know Christ.。
Now, before we came to know Christ,。
church is nothing to us.。
Maybe there's a cool thing, maybe there's a good thing,。
some sort of institute in the society。
that would help people to do better things or good things.。
But when we come to know faith, we truly know faith,。
there should be some fundamental change。
in how we see the church.。
Church becomes our priority.。
Third, your emotional life.。
There should be emotional growth in your own life as well.。
We know Christ through the gospel.。
We know that we are truly loved by God Himself.。
We're truly loved by the unconditional grace of God.。
Then we should learn, you know, in the progress,。
I am fully accepted by God Himself,。
and that is how I anchor my identity.。
My value, my dignity, is not defined by my popularity.。
It's not by how many friends I have.。
It's not by how much money I earn.。
It's not by my social status.。
My emotional growth should go from。
before I came to know Christ, it was unsecure.。
I'm trying to find things to anchor my identity.。
The figures on your paycheck, how big is your house, right?。
How much things do you own?。
How many friends do you have?。
How popular are you on IG or on Facebook。
or anything like that?。
That was before Christ.。
Now, after Christ, you came to know Christ,。
your emotional life should be always growing。
in light of the gospel, in light of how Christ loves us.。
Because Christ loves us unconditionally,。
then I am a secure individual.。
No matter how popular I am, no matter how unpopular I am,。
I know that I'm fully accepted by Christ, right?。
Now, since two years ago, because of the lockdown,。
because of the COVID, we have gone online, right?。
Now, you should know, right?。
Once you go online, your videos。
or whatever sermon you preach, right?。
Now it becomes something permanent, right?。
Now, I always get some comments on YouTube, right?。
Many, I would say, are positive.。
But quite a few are negative.。
Quite a few are negative, right?。
I've come to know this reality, right?。
This is the way it is, right?。
That's the world we live in, right?。
Now, in the beginning, you may feel very uncomfortable。
with some negative comments, right?。
Made by some users, made by some customers, right?。
Religious customers, that they have no commitment to you,。
right?。
They are somewhere else, I don't know where they are, right?。
They may be in Africa, they may be in Asia,。
they may be in Chicago, but they make some comments, right?。
They make some critical comments.。
And then you kind of, you know,。
you don't feel good about it, all right?。
But if you are totally secure in Christ,。
all you do in your worship, in your service,。
in everything that you do,。
you are securely anchor your value,。
your identity, your dignity in Christ alone.。
Then all these comments, will he, doesn't matter.。
You know what I'm saying?。
People can criticize you,。
or people can give you some negative feedback.。
But that should give you, you know,。
motives to improve even further, right?。
But you don't doubt yourself.。
You don't doubt your own identity,。
because I am truly anchor in Christ himself, right?。
Emotional growth.。
And then there's a purpose, fundamental change,。
in your purpose of your life.。
Your general, overall orientation of your life.。
Before you know Christ, you're all by yourself.。
You're living your own life,。
according to your own agendas.。
Now you belong to Christ.。
And the New Testament continues to emphasize one fact,。
that Christ has redeemed you on the cross,。
with a great price, and you belong to him.。
And your life and your mission is to glorify him,。
is to extend his kingdom, to share the gospel.。
God is using you in your own way,。
that nobody else can replace you.。
And you are executing God's own mission,。
to glorify God in your career, in your family,。
in your community, in your neighborhood.。
That is a fundamental change in your purpose of your life.。
Finally, your understanding.。
Your understanding of the gospel.。
You know, what Christianity is all about.。
What does Jesus think it's all about?。
Before you know Christ, you probably were a seeker.。
You were beginners.。
After you came to know the gospel,。
you should have a better understanding,。
until you get a very solid understanding。
of what the gospel is.。
Now remember what I asked you very beginning,。
the first question, the way in Chicago, right?。
The way in Chicago.。
You have been in Chicago for some time,。
and you're familiar with the city, right?。
You can show other people the way.。
Now, I wanna apply this question to the Christian faith.。
If someone you bump into, know nothing about the gospel,。
and he asked you or she asked you,。
what this Christian thing is all about, right?。
How do I get there, right?。
How do I get to know Jesus?。
What is the way?。
Can you tell the person?。
Immediately, right away.。
Now what I'm saying is,。
not only you should get a better understanding yourself,。
you should be able to explain it,。
to tell other people, right?。
If you cannot tell other people,。
hey, what is the way to God, right?。
Then you probably have some work to do, right?。
And I encourage you to do that, right?。
So, these are some of the aspects。
that we need to ask ourselves.。
Our habit, how we use our time.。
Relationship, we configure in such a way。
that we'll enhance the kingdom work of God.。
The emotional growth for yourself,。
for your understanding of the gospel.。
Are you making progress?。
Are you making any progress?。
Are you making any step forward。
in your faith, in your faith journey?。
The book of Hebrews, one of the New Testament letters。
written by a pastor to the church.。
Most of them were Jewish Christians.。
512, he says, "For though by this time,。
"you ought to be teachers."。
You need someone to teach you again and again。
the basic principles of the oracles of God.。
"You need milk, not solid food.。
"For everyone who lives on milk is unskilled。
"in the word of righteousness, for he is a child.。
"But solid food is for the mature,。
"for those who have the powers of discernment,。
"trained by constant practice。
"to distinguish good from evil.。
"Therefore, let us leave the elementary doctrine,。
"the basic doctrine of Christ, and go on to maturity,。
"not laying again a foundation of repentance。
"from that work and all that."。
Foundation of faith toward God.。
We don't need the foundation anymore。
because you got the foundation already.。
You see the progress here?。
Back then, you should be having milk, right?。
It's like a baby.。
Well, you need a milk bottle to feed yourself.。
You cannot have solid food.。
But now, two years later at least, right?。
Two years later, you came to know Christ。
at least two years later before lockdown,。
before the pandemics.。
Are you making progress?。
Or you're still having spiritual milk?。
You should be taking solid food, right?。
Otherwise, that would be strange, right?。
It would be strange.。
Year after year, you're still staying。
at the elementary level.。
We cannot do that.。
The pastor says, "You need to make progress.。
"Stop making excuse in your life."。
You know, we always have our own reasons.。
Hey, I wanna postpone this or postpone that, right?。
God is our priority, and you should be making progress.。
Now, as I told you, no one can really comprehend the Bible。
cover to cover in one sentence.。
Nobody can.。
Now, of course, to be honest,。
the simple message of the gospel is easy to understand,。
right?。
A three-year-old, four-year-old can understand.。
God sold off the world, John 3:16.。
Everyone can understand the elementary doctrine,。
but we are not called to stay the same, right?。
That is why we have the Apostles' Creek.。
The Apostles' Creek is a quick summary,。
a useful summary of Christianity in 12 sentences,。
12 statements, and the creek itself,。
Apostles' Creek, has been around for 1,800 years.。
Can you believe that?。
1,800 years, 1,800 years.。
Even the Roman Empire did not last that long.。
1,800 years, since AD 200-something,。
we had the most basic form of the Apostles' Creek.。
Of course, it was not written by the first apostles.。
It was the rule of faith laid down by the early church,。
the first century church,。
or the second generation of the Christians.。
And because it goes back to a generation or two。
after the first apostles of Jesus,。
we call it Apostles' Creek.。
Now, when we go through the Apostles' Creek,。
there were a little, here and there,。
I want you to understand what it is all about,。
Apostles' Creek.。
Now, you can imagine in the first century,。
when the Christian church just started,。
they need some standard of faith。
for the Christians to grasp,。
so that they understand what the true gospel is all about.。
If you don't have the right content, you cannot grow.。
As I said, we truncate, or we reduce the faith。
into one or two things,。
you cannot grow strong as a Christian.。
Couple weeks ago, Steve, remember that guy?。
Steve, he talk about the letter to the Ephesians.。
Right at the beginning, he said,。
we need to love our Lord, our God,。
with all our heart and all our soul,。
and all our mind, right?。
Your thinking.。
If your thinking is wrong, is truncated,。
you cannot relate to God, all right?。
Now, let's read the first sentence of the Apostles' Creek.。
Okay?。
It says, "I believe in God, the Father Almighty,。
"Creator of heavens and earth."。
Did you hear that?。
I believe in God, the Father Almighty.。
Let me unpack that.。
First, faith, in the biblical sense,。
faith is not making something true.。
Faith is not making something true.。
Faith is affirming something that is true.。
Okay?。
Okay, let's do some intellectual exercise.。
Faith, believe in Christ, believe in the gospel.。
Faith is not making something true.。
Faith is affirming something that is already true.。
How many of you believe in ghost?。
How many of you are afraid of ghost?。
All right, how many of you believe in ghost?。
You believe in ghost, right?。
I believe in ghost because the Bible tells me so, right?。
You believe in ghost,。
have you ever hunt one of those?。
You go out to the haunting house and hunt one of the ghost?。
No, right?。
It stays in the intellectual level.。
You can believe in something, something that exists,。
the existence of something or someone,。
but you don't have the relationship.。
It's all a matter of intellectual only.。
That is how the apostles' quick begins.。
I believe, I believe means not just intellectual checkbox.。
I believe means I am believing into God.。
I'm committing on myself to the relationship of God.。
Now, how many of you know my wife?。
How many of you know my wife exists?。
She really does, she really does, okay?。
Even though sometimes I ignore it, all right?。
She really does exist, she really does exist.。
But the fact that you believe my wife exists。
doesn't mean you are committed to her, right?。
For me, it's a totally different thing.。
I believe she exists and I commit to her, right?。
You see the difference?。
Now, the Bible has two parts,。
the Old Testament and the New Testament, right?。
Have you ever wondered why there's a word testament there?。
The word testament comes from Greek word。
and that means covenant.。
It is a lifelong commitment, right?。
It's the same thing as intellectually,。
I know my wife exists,。
but in terms of life, in terms of my life commitment,。
I am committing myself to her,。
not just affirming she exists only,。
but I'm committing to her, right?。
I believe in God, the Father Almighty,。
means that I'm not just affirming the existence of God.。
There's no use, right?。
It doesn't impact your life.。
I believe in God, the Almighty,。
means I'm committing myself to Him.。
So the Christian faith is not about。
affirming the existence of God, right?。
I would be totally comfortable。
if someone check in our church,。
what do you believe in?。
What you don't believe in.。
If he asks what I don't believe in,。
what the church does not affirm,。
I would be totally comfortable to answer and say,。
we do not affirm the existence of God.。
Yes, we don't,。
but we affirm the God who exists and relate to us.。
You see, there's a total different thing, right?。
Many people come to faith thinking,。
oh, this is an intellectual checkbox.。
I believe in the existence of God,。
but it doesn't really impact your life.。
You're not believing in the biblical sense.。
You believe the God who commit himself to you.。
His son died for you on the cross,。
and that's why you believe in God who exists.。
It's a totally different thing。
than affirming the existence of God only.。
You see the difference?。
Genesis 1.1.。
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.。
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.。
You open the pages of the Bible.。
Do you find it interesting?。
There's no intellectual argument in the Bible。
that you can find that would prove the existence of God.。
The Bible doesn't waste time doing that.。
The Bible simply assume,。
simply presuppose that only with God everything exists,。
only because of God himself, everything works.。
On this presupposition, you have to choose。
whether you come to faith in this God, creator, or not.。
That is what the Apostle Creeks is all about.。
So you open the pages of the Bible.。
You're always confronted with the God who created you,。
the God who exists,。
and he rules over the entire cosmos,。
entire life of yours.。
And what is your relationship with God who created you?。
You owe your life to him.。
How do you relate to this God?。
You're always confronted with this cosmic question.。
Who is God to you?。
Now what does it mean to believe in God?。
I believe.。
It means for us today that I will worship God and God alone.。
I show that in my use of time,。
in my emotional status,。
in my configuration with the church, with other people.。
You cannot be double-minded.。
You gotta put your entire trust in him.。
And secondly, what does it mean for us。
when we say I believe?。
I will continue to seek God's will。
in all the decisions in my life.。
You ask God whether I should do this or do that.。
You always have that in your mind.。
Whether I should wake up today to worship him or not.。
I'm always confronted with this question.。
I set my orientation of my life to please God himself.。
And thirdly, it means I'm making a commitment。
to know God and know him better every day.。
I'm making a commitment to him.。
That is what it means I believe, all right?。
Let's end with doing the Apostles' Creed.。
Let's recite it.。
Let's all stand together.。
And then we'll close by prayer.。
Let's all stand.。
We're gonna read the English only,。
but you can do the other language if you want.。
Apostles' Creed, let's do it together.。
I believe in God, the Father Almighty,。
creator of heaven and earth.。
I believe in Jesus Christ, his only son, our Lord.。
He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit。
and born of the Virgin Mary.。
He suffered under Pontius Pilate,。
was crucified, died, and was buried.。
He descended to the dead.。
On the third day, he rose again.。
He ascended into heaven and is seated。
at the right hand of the Father.。
He will come again to judge the living and the dead.。
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the holy universal church,。
the chameleon of saints, the forgiveness of sins,。
the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting.。
Amen.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, thank you for the opportunity to get to know you.。
And I pray that every single one of us。
will make progress in our faith,。
to get to know you, to get to know your power.。
I pray that you will help us to commit ourselves into you,。
as you have committed yourself into us.。
You show us on the cross, you show us on the empty tomb。
that you are the Lord and Savior.。
And I pray that our belief will continue to grow,。
how we see ourselves, how we see the world,。
how we see you as our king and our Savior.。
So I pray that you will exercise your lordship in our lives.。
Yes, we face a lot of different problems in our lives.。
Our own personal growth, our own personal career,。
our relationship, our family, our future.。
But we know that you above all, you are God alone.。
And I pray that we will make our commitment into you。
and we'll grow into your word.。
And I pray that as we gather to study your word,。
your spirit will continue to speak to us,。
to build us up, that we will be a solid Christians,。
we will be solid church that will please you。
and worship you.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Well, you may be seated.。
