you up to the service. Thank you guys. Oh, Mark.。
I want to say hi to one another. Give a handshake or a high five, you know, to your。
neighbors. What a blessing to be here and to worship together.。
That's it. That's it. OK.。
As you can tell, I'm suffering from a very mild form of coming cold, so I usually。
don't wear a mask, but, you know, I wear a mask.。
So people are pretty surprised this morning and asked me why I'm wearing a mask.。
You know, as you can tell, you know, I don't want to spread germs.。
So but it's very mild form of coming cold.。
I'm coming to the end of it.。
So so praise God for for the opportunity to to worship together because, you know,。
showing up here, you know, not being sick, not being sick enough to be to be absent.。
It's a blessing, right?。
It's a blessing to sit with, you know, brother and sister in Christ to worship。
together and to think about the word, especially in this coming weeks as the。
Holy Week approaches us.。
The Good Friday, the Palm Sunday, next Sunday and then Good Friday and Easter。
Sunday is the best time to reflect and to think about what the love of Christ。
really means for us.。
And there's nothing that is better is to go into the word of God, to come to the。
scripture. And last week, as you remember, we were talking about the last days of。
Jesus, the last week of Jesus.。
And we were at chapter 12 of the Gospel of John.。
And we brought out a couple of points when we studied the story in chapter 12 of。
Gospel of John, the Mary of Bethany.。
He annoyed the feet of Jesus with the most expensive perfume and she broke the jar。
and just started to annoy Jesus.。
And the purpose of it is to prepare for the death of Jesus Christ.。
So, in the perspective of Mary, she knew the cross was necessary.。
So, there was the first point.。
The first point is a big point.。
The necessity of the cross.。
She saw that Jesus had to die, had to die to pay for the sin, for sinners to。
accomplish the work of salvation on the cross.。
So, the cross was necessary.。
Jesus has to die.。
That's why she prepared Jesus' body ahead of time.。
And then, in the same story, we see another character, Judas, who betrayed。
Jesus, and we see the foolishness of the cross.。
And certainly, for Judas, he could not see any wisdom from the cross.。
And he was following a leader, the Messiah, for his political need to provide。
some sort of practical solution to his issue, to the issue of his day.。
It's the political problem.。
The Roman Empire was the political problem for the Jewish people.。
So, they were looking for a political Messiah.。
Of course, for Judas, this Messiah, Jesus, does not fit the profile that。
they were looking for.。
So, there he goes.。
He only saw the foolishness of the cross.。
So, now we are on chapter 13.。
Chapter 13.。
Let me read the scripture.。
It's a familiar story.。
I'm sure you heard about it.。
So, let's read John chapter 13.。
"Before the Passover celebration, Jesus knew that his hour had come to leave。
this world and return to his Father.。
He had loved his disciples during his ministry on earth, and now Jesus loved。
them to the very end.。
It was time for supper, and the devil had already prompted Judas, son of Simon。
Zechariah, to betray Jesus.。
Jesus knew that the Father had given him authority over everything and that he had。
come from God and would return to God.。
So, he got up from the table, took off his robe, wrapped a towel around his waist.。
He poured water into a basin, and he began to wash the feet of the disciples,。
drying them with the towel he had around him.。
When Jesus came to Simon Peter, Peter said to him, 'Lord, are you going to wash。
my feet?'。
Jesus answered, 'You don't understand now what I'm doing, but someday you will.'。
'No,' Peter protested, 'you will never, ever wash my feet.'。
Jesus replied, 'Unless I wash you, you will not belong to me.'。
Simon Peter exclaimed, 'Then wash my hands and head as well, not just my feet.'。
Jesus replied, 'A person who has bathed all over does not need to wash except for。
the feet to be entirely clean.。
And you disciples are clean, but not all of you.'。
For Jesus knew who would betray him.。
This is what he meant when he said, 'Not all of you are clean.'。
After washing the feet, he put on his robe again and sat down and asked,。
'Do you guys understand what I'm doing?。
You call me teacher and Lord, and you are right because that is what I am.。
And since I, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet,。
you ought to wash each other's feet.。
I've given you an example to follow.。
Do as I have done to you.'。
This is the word of God.。
Pardon my extra bass voice.。
I know it's sexy, but...。
Yeah, I struggle whether I should preach today, but, you know, I got a little bit better.。
So thank God for answering my prayer.。
Otherwise, I will call on some of you to substitute the preaching today,。
especially you, Moody students.。
I'll call on you Saturday night and say, 'I cannot preach, okay?。
You should preach.'。
All right.。
So God bless you today.。
All right.。
Now, back to the story, okay?。
The story.。
Jesus washing the feet of the disciples.。
Very familiar, right?。
There are two major points here I want to point out.。
First one is that when we talk about foot washing,。
so often we can think of is this iconic painting, all right?。
What is the name of this painting?。
Last breakfast, lunch, or supper?。
Supper, right?。
Supper.。
Da Vinci's.。
So it was back in the 1600, I think.。
Yeah, he drew this iconic picture.。
And as you can see in this picture, 15th century painting,。
one long dining table, and Jesus is at the center.。
Can you see Jesus?。
Yeah.。
He's right at the center, and six disciples line up on his left,。
and then six others on his right.。
So this painting reflects the dinner setting at the time of the painting,。
15th century, 16th century, the time of Renaissance.。
European setting, European dining table, right?。
Something we are more familiar with, the dining setting.。
But as you know, in Jesus' day, the setting of supper is quite different.。
And you remember, as we read the story,。
this is probably the last evening of Jesus' spend with his disciples.。
And as we know from the storyline,。
John 13 is the last evening, last dinner with his disciples.。
And it was probably on Thursday evening, Thursday evening.。
And the next day is so-called Passover and the Shabbat.。
And Jesus and his disciples gathered together,。
probably in a pretty big room.。
And the Bible says it's an upper room.。
It's an upper room.。
It's on the second floor.。
So it's a big dining area.。
And they set up for their last supper, Jesus' last supper.。
And it was probably a formal Passover meal of Jewish people.。
At this time, it's the Passover season,。
and people were getting ready in Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover meal.。
The setting of Jesus' day is different.。
What we call, when they sit together to have dinner,。
it's not a long dining table.。
It's actually something called triclinium.。
As you can tell from the word, triclinium is to recline.。
And there are three tables or three couches reclined, forming a U-shape.。
Now, back in the days of Jesus, under Roman occupation,。
many of the Jewish people actually welcomed some of the Roman lifestyle.。
And this is one of them.。
This is one of them, triclinium.。
So one day, one meal a year, the most important meal, the Passover meal,。
they would dine in the Roman style.。
And that is the Roman style they would imitate.。
Triclinium is to have all the guests, all the people dining together.。
They will recline together.。
And then the food would be in the center.。
You would recline on your left side, lying on your left side,。
and your right hand would be free to reach out to the food in the center.。
All right?。
So it's a U-shape, and then the center is for the waiter or waitress or the busboy.。
Right?。
They will serve the food, and then you ask for refill.。
The servant will do it for you.。
And your legs, as I explained before, your legs will be sticking out.。
Right?。
So your legs, your feet, away from the food.。
And you stick your feet out there as you enjoy the feast.。
And then the servant in the midst of them will do the foot washing.。
Will do the foot washing.。
Now, something more about the triclinium.。
Something more about the Roman way of dining.。
Is that the seating arrangement, where you sit,。
where you sit around the triclinium, there's different levels of honor.。
This is pretty much the same as a traditional Chinese or Asian culture.。
I remember years ago, I visited southern China,。
and then we were meeting with some church leaders and city officials.。
So I remember one evening, we went out to a restaurant,。
to a private room, a dining room.。
And then we went to the dining hall, and there was a big round table, right?。
The Chinese table, usually round, right?。
So we went into the room, and back then I was a young guy.。
Right?。
So I still remember I walked into that room with a bunch of elders。
and people who are much older than me, right?。
And do you know what you should do and how you should behave?。
You do not sit.。
You are told where to sit, right?。
So the city officials, the big guys, right?。
They are probably the oldest person in the room, the elder.。
He will sit first, and he will assign a seat, right?。
So, you know, beside him, right or left,。
you know, probably other governors or city officials or government workers.。
And then come alongside, and then the last one being probably the youngest one.。
So it is a culture of honor and shame.。
So even where you sit, where you sit, it is a matter of honor or shame.。
This is the same way in the Roman triclinium arrangement.。
Every seat is prearranged from the elder to the least,。
from the greatest to the least, from the eldest to the youngest.。
It's a culture of honor and shame.。
So if we map out the triclinium, the host, okay, the host,。
probably a little bit small, the font, but that's okay.。
The host will be on the left, sitting second to the left.。
And the guest of honor on his left.。
And the trusted friend, another guest of honor,。
usually the youngest, on the right side of the host.。
And then the seating will continue in a clockwise direction,。
often from the older and then all the way to the youngest.。
And then on the lower right, on our lower right,。
would be the seat of the least honor.。
And usually the youngest person or the servant。
would be sitting in the lower right.。
Now as you can tell, triclinium in the Roman culture。
is a symbol of political power.。
It's all about domination.。
It's all about who's going to sit at the highest honor,。
who's going to take the least honor.。
The ruling class, the leaders, would exercise their right。
and their power over other people.。
So you come into the dining room of Roman triclinium,。
you will feel that this is not just a meal.。
You know, it's politics.。
It's all about power.。
It's all about dignity and about honor.。
Now if you map this out in such a way。
that Jesus is the host,。
he would be sitting on the second to the left, right?。
He's the host, Jesus there.。
And then probably on Jesus' left is Judah.。
And then on his right is the youngest of the 12,。
Apostle John.。
And then on the other side of the dining hall。
is Peter himself, Simon Peter.。
Now why did I say that?。
Because there are different details。
in the Last Supper stories from all four Gospels.。
There are different details that tell us。
actually this is how they arrange the seating positions。
in the Last Supper.。
Let me give you an example.。
Now remember this map, right?。
This is where you sit.。
This is where Jesus is.。
If you're Simon Peter, where are you?。
You're on the list, right?。
By the door.。
So, you know, he is in the position of servanthood.。
John, probably the youngest among the 12,。
and we know John died the last among the 12, right?。
He was also the author of the last book of New Testament,。
the Book of Revelation.。
So naturally we would think that John is the youngest guy.。
Judah is right next to Jesus and sharing the same bowl,。
dipping food into the bowl and enjoy the food together.。
So Jesus and Judah's probably are very close to each other.。
So if you remember this map,。
you remember this seating arrangement,。
let me turn to one of the verses in chapter 13,。
talking about the Last Supper.。
You would immediately understand,。
all details here would immediately make sense.。
The story goes, when Jesus says, "Someone will betray me."。
He said, "Among you 12, someone would betray me."。
Verse 22, the disciples look at each other,。
wondering whom he could mean.。
The disciple Jesus loved,。
probably John himself, right?。
He's the beloved disciple.。
He wrote the Gospel of John.。
He's the youngest guy.。
Now, how is he being described?。
The disciple Jesus loved John,。
was sitting next to Jesus at the table.。
Simon Peter motioned to him, motioned to John and asked,。
who is Jesus talking about?。
But why didn't Peter go ask Jesus himself?。
Well, the only reason is because in the triclinium,。
he's the farthest guy away from Jesus.。
He could not ask Jesus personally, individually.。
So he has to motion to John.。
John is right next to, actually in front of,。
on the right side, reclining in front of Jesus.。
So he motioned to him and asked,。
who is Jesus talking about?。
So that the disciple leaned over to Jesus,。
remember they're reclining,。
and asked, "Lord Jesus, who is it?。
"Who is it going to betray you?"。
Jesus respond, "It is the one to whom I give the bread。
"I dip in the bowl."。
And when Jesus had dip it, he gave it to Judas,。
not Peter, right?。
If he had to give it to Peter, he has to throw it over,。
right, give it next to Judas.。
So immediately you understand,。
the gospel description reflecting the local Roman,。
or Roman Jewish, you know, high class triclinium dining,。
you know, fashion.。
They're sitting around the U-shape, reclining,。
feet sticking out, right?。
And then the background give us, you know,。
some more, you know, some more ways to understand。
some of the biblical descriptions.。
And I think this background brings about。
some of the surprises in the story.。
Some of the big surprises.。
Perhaps the story is too familiar to us,。
and that sense of surprise, that sense of, you know,。
ha-ha, you know, it's gone.。
But let's revisit.。
You know, in those days, everybody wear sandals.。
Everybody wear sandals.。
Anyone wear sandals today?。
Open toes.。
You wear sandals and you go to the dining hall,。
from your home to the dining hall,。
your feet bound to pick up some dirt, right?。
Stinky feet, dirty feet.。
And foot washing in those days。
is a necessary part of dinner arrangement.。
You gotta have someone do the foot washing for you, right?。
Usually people of lowest ranking class,。
servants, slaves, women, or widows,。
they are being tasked to do such things.。
They are the waitress, they are the busboys,。
or they are the servers.。
So they are the foot washers as well.。
Now, then you can understand why。
in some of the gospel stories,。
talking about in the Last Supper,。
the disciples were arguing against one another,。
who is gonna be the greatest,。
and who is gonna be the least, right?。
Remember some of those stories?。
You know, why did they argue about it?。
Well, there's a practical need to argue about it.。
You know what I'm saying?。
Someone has to do foot washing, right?。
Now, Jesus is the host, He arranged the entire dinner.。
What He missed doing, He didn't do one thing right.。
Jesus didn't do one thing right.。
He did not arrange a servant among them.。
He did not hire a servant, right?。
He did get the Airbnb and get the dining hall ready,。
but nobody's gonna serve, right?。
So all the 12 disciples show up in the dining hall,。
what food is being served,。
but there's no one among us。
to do the most necessary part, right?。
Because our sandals, our feet,。
when we took off our sandals,。
our feet are full of dirt, right?。
And part of the manner of dining in Trichilium。
is to have your feet washed, right?。
Think about our culture, the dining custom.。
When we sit down in, say, a Chinese restaurant, right?。
What's the first thing that is necessary。
when you sit down?。
Tea.。
Somebody has to bring tea or ice water.。
Somebody has to do that, right?。
You expect that.。
It's kind of our cultural expectation or cultural values.。
In Jesus' day, around the Trichilium,。
people would expect the first thing.。
We come in, a servant will wash our feet, right?。
That's why they argue against one another.。
Who's gonna do it now, right?。
Oh, Jesus didn't, forgot probably,。
forgot to book a maid servant, right?。
And nobody would be so disrespectful。
and say, "Teacher, you missed something."。
Nobody would do that.。
That's why among the 12, they would have to argue.。
They have to figure out,。
"Hey, when we got to have our feet washed,。
"who's gonna be the one, right?"。
And then as they come to the table, surprise, surprise, right?。
Jesus put all the 12 in a clockwise position.。
On this right is youngest disciple, John.。
On his left is Judas.。
And then clockwise, and then to the last one,。
is Simon Peter.。
Now that's a surprise,。
because Peter has been the head among the 12, right?。
He is the best Sunday school student, right?。
He always answer the questions often wrong,。
but he's the most active student among the 12.。
And he's actually the one of the closest to Jesus.。
And surprise, surprise to Simon Peter.。
He's sitting right next to the door, the least position.。
The surprise is, Jesus is doing the foot washing.。
Jesus got up and he did it.。
And look at what Jesus did.。
Jesus knew that the Father had given him。
authority over everything,。
that he had come from God and would return to God soon.。
So Jesus got up from the table, from the triclinium.。
He took off his robe,。
wrapped a towel around his waist,。
and poured water into a basin.。
There, then he began to wash the feet of the disciples,。
and then dry them one by one with towel around him.。
Now, as you can tell, I highlight all the verbs here.。
If you read the Gospel of John from chapter one。
all the way to this chapter, chapter 13,。
you understand the narrator or the author,。
it's like a cameraman.。
It's like a cameraman.。
At this point, it was pretty fast。
from chapter one to chapter 12.。
Boom, boom, boom, miracles, miracles, miracles, miracles.。
And talking, talking, talking.。
All the controversials about Jesus,。
all the teachings about Jesus.。
One chapter after the other, pretty fast, pretty fast.。
And then come to chapter 13, it comes to a slow-mo.。
You know, just zoom in to the actions, right?。
You know, all the verbs, you know,。
just two verses, four and five.。
He rose, he lay aside, he took up a towel,。
he wrapped around his waist, poured water out,。
and then washed their feet, and wiped dry their feet.。
It is not domination.。
It is not Roman politics.。
It is servanthood.。
The greatest becomes the least.。
It's all about serving.。
Now, do not miss, please do not miss。
the significance of this story.。
It's not just a nice, warm story about servanthood,。
about Jesus washing the feet of a disciple.。
It's not just an act of servanthood.。
It foreshadows something else.。
It foreshadows something that's gonna happen soon,。
which is the crucifixion of Jesus.。
He took off his majesty.。
He stood up, he took it off,。
and he took on the form of servant,。
and then he died on the cross.。
He poured out his blood this time, pretty soon.。
On Calvary, not water, but like water,。
he poured out his blood to be the least.。
And remember in one of the seven words,。
one of seven last words of Jesus on the cross,。
one of them in the Gospel of John。
is that Jesus said, "I am thirsty."。
The living water become thirst.。
So foot washing is not just about serving.。
It points us forward, or what we call foreshadows,。
the cross.。
Jesus washing the feet of disciples is to prepare them。
what is he doing ultimately on the cross.。
That's the first point.。
The second point is that foot washing points。
toward the way of disciples,。
the way of how disciples should live.。
Now why do I say that?。
I mean, I think the point is obvious。
because in washing the feet of disciples,。
Jesus demonstrates so clearly the true meaning of service,。
or better, the better way to put it,。
is the true meaning of using his power.。
We all have power.。
We all have our rights, our privileges.。
You know, especially in American culture,。
we emphasize power.。
We emphasize our rights.。
Nothing wrong with that per se,。
but as we follow Christ,。
Christ gives us another way of using our power,。
using our rights.。
There are a few points we should point out。
in the last supper,。
especially in the triclinium arrangement.。
First, is that Jesus puts Judas in the seat of honor。
on his left, on his left.。
He took a piece of bread,。
dip it in the bowl,。
and give it to Judas.。
Judas is not sitting just on his left。
in the seat of honor,。
but for the very first time,。
or very last time,。
Jesus gives him one less reason to betray him.。
One less reason.。
Loving the enemy.。
Demonstrate clearly.。
Second point.。
I said John should be the youngest among the 12, right?。
Jesus put him first on his right.。
The youngest, the least, is put on the first.。
Third, Peter, far right, lower right,。
has been head of the 12,。
but now Jesus put him last.。
The entire Jesus triclinium arrangement。
is some sort of anti-Roman political story.。
Jesus said, "This is how you work in the Roman world,。
"but when you come around my table,。
"when you be my disciples,。
"we work in quite different ways."。
It's an upside-down world, right?。
Jesus turned the whole world upside down.。
The head would be the last, right?。
The first would be the least.。
The oldest would be the servant.。
You know, what does it talk about, discipleship?。
What does it talk about our church, right?。
We have a short series on being a healthy church, right?。
I think the most healthy church,。
most healthy church culture。
would be a culture of Jesus' triclinium,。
the Last Supper.。
When we come together,。
all powers are being reconfigured.。
Everything has changed.。
The configuration of structure,。
social, political power, spiritual power, or whatever.。
When you come to the table of Jesus, everything has changed。
because He came to serve, not to be served.。
There's a book, a very good book,。
written by Scott McKnight.。
He used to be a New Testament teacher。
at Northern Seminary, not too far away from us.。
He said, the title of the book is "A Church Called Tov."。
Okay, what is it?。
Tov is actually a Hebrew word, means good, goodness.。
All right, good, tov.。
So the book talks about a healthy church culture,。
a tov culture, a goodness culture.。
How do we form a goodness culture,。
especially in our generation?。
When people look at church。
or established religion,。
organized religion,。
they often look at church in a negative way.。
There's just so many horrible stories。
done in the name of God, in the name of the church.。
It's just sobering to hear all the stories.。
And Scott McKnight wrote this book,。
and he lays out four ways of power.。
He said the first way is power over.。
You have domination over other people.。
You're in charge, and other people listen to you.。
The second way is power to.。
You have the power to influence other people.。
And the third way is power with,。
to share the spotlight,。
to share power and your platform with other people.。
Let other people speak, let other people lead.。
Empower another person, right?。
Power with.。
But the ultimate form of, but but call, exercise of power,。
Jesus' way, is power for.。
That's what Jesus did.。
He demonstrated to his disciples,。
to serve, but not to be served.。
The greatest shall be the last.。
Greatest shall be the least.。
Now, some of the homework that I wanna give to you.。
What does it mean to apply,。
to use our power and use it for, you know, power for?。
Couple of points.。
First, forgiveness.。
Have you ever thought about forgiveness as an act of power?。
You decide to forgive someone who has wronged you.。
It is an act of power.。
And biblical forgiveness is an exercise of power for.。
You decide not to retaliate.。
You decide to forgive, just like Jesus did.。
Forgiveness.。
Second, giving.。
Giving is also exercise of power for, right?。
Instead of taking.。
Taking, accumulating, is power over.。
But in the biblical lifestyle, in discipleship,。
we ought to exercise and continue to exercise power for.。
To give is an act of power for other people,。
for the church, for other ministries.。
Third, serving.。
Serving definitely, ministry definitely, is powerful.。
Let me ask you a question, a very quick question.。
Have you ever done anything to serve other people lately。
without telling anyone?。
Without telling anyone, even your wife or husband,。
your best friend, nobody knows.。
You give, you do something for other people, you know?。
(audience laughing)。
Powerful.。
That is the way of discipleship.。
That's how we should act.。
That is the whole point of Jesus' foot washing。
for the disciples.。
Let me close with one very short quote, okay?。
Very short quote.。
Back in the 1700s, 1700s, 200 some years ago,。
there was a German missionary.。
His name is Sensendorf.。
It's not very well known.。
Nobody would have interest to know about his life。
or what he did.。
But there's one saying that he said。
that has been echoed。
or has touched so many lives.。
To remind people what it means to follow Jesus Christ,。
what it means to be his disciples,。
what is the purpose of our life。
as we commit our life to Jesus Christ himself,。
to be Christ's follower.。
What does it mean?。
What is the ultimate purpose?。
And I wanna end today's sermon with this quote.。
It's a very short quote.。
The quote said, "Preach the gospel, die, be forgotten."。
Be forgotten.。
That is the ultimate goal of Christian discipleship.。
Now, we don't have any problem。
with preaching the gospel usually, right?。
Probably we are afraid of doing so,。
but that's not a big issue, preaching the gospel.。
And we usually have no problem dying, right?。
Someday you die, someday I die, right?。
You have to die, you know, someday.。
Usually you have no problem with the second part.。
Usually we have problem with the last part, the third one.。
Be forgotten.。
You wanna do something。
and you wanna prolong so-called your name, right?。
Your reputation or your power.。
But this story in John 13。
tells the ultimate purpose for discipleship.。
Follow Christ.。
It's not about us.。
It's not about us being served。
or us being, you know, feeling good.。
It's about us doing something to respond。
to the grace of God with our life。
and ultimately be forgotten.。
And that's okay.。
Let's work on it.。
Give our life back to God,。
God who save us, who redeem us.。
And let's work for His glory,。
for God's name, not my name, not your name,。
not even our church's name, not our ministry's name,。
but for the name of God.。
Let God's name be glorified.。
Let Him get glory and we be forgotten.。
Let's pray.。
Father God, we give you thanks。
because you have demonstrated your love to us.。
You are the one who is greatest。
and you willingly, sacrificially lay down your majesty。
to come into our midst,。
took on the form of humans,。
took on the form of servant, slave.。
You pour out your life to save us, to redeem us,。
to bring us back to our Father.。
And we want to give you thanks.。
I pray that this is our prayer,。
to do the work, to preach your gospel.。
Then we die and it's okay to be forgotten。
because ultimately your name is what matters。
in Jesus' name.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
