And right now we'll have past Mike for a message.。
- Hey guys, if you want to find one word。
that would sum up the Bible, Old Testament and New Testament,。
one word, okay, what would that be?。
Sum up the entire Bible, right?。
How many of you say God?。
That's kind of lame, right?。
But what I'm going to suggest to you。
in the ultimate sense is resurrection.。
It's this word, resurrection.。
It's the victory of death over sin。
and over death over Satan in the empty tomb of Jesus Christ.。
And that's why we are trying to think about,。
trying to apply what this teaching is all about,。
the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
I know it's not Easter, it's Easter behind our back。
and we celebrate Easter Sunday some time ago,。
but I want to argue and I want to suggest to you。
that the doctrine of resurrection,。
the teaching of resurrection, the reality of it。
is the core, the foundation of our faith.。
From Old Testament to New Testament,。
this is the word, resurrection, the victory of Jesus Christ.。
You know, I am preparing for our Israel trip。
at the end of May.。
We have 26 people joining us.。
10 of them are from this church。
and 16 of them are from all over the place,。
from Hong Kong, from West Coast or East Coast, anyways.。
So 26 of us.。
So I'm preparing some materials。
and I just stumble upon some of the books I've read before。
and I didn't pay attention to it。
when I talk about resurrection.。
And these are the two books,。
written, both of them, written by Jewish scholars.。
And they are Jewish, they are not Christians.。
So there's no intention for them。
to promote the Christian faith,。
to promote the fact that Jesus' tomb is empty.。
The first one on top is a top-notch Jewish scholar,。
a historian, he passed away not too long ago,。
Gisela Vermers.。
Gisela Vermers has been a historian for a long, long time。
and well-respected in the Jewish world,。
in fact, in the world.。
And he specialized in early century。
of the land of Israel.。
And he said there's no way that the disciples。
would make up a story of empty tomb.。
There's no way psychologically, historically,。
there's no way that they would expect a resurrection,。
expect an empty tomb.。
So there was no purpose for them to fake one.。
And down below is Shimon Gibson.。
He's also a historian, not a Christian,。
and that's why I quote them, right?。
That's why I quote them.。
These are not Christians.。
These people do not believe Jesus is the Son of God.。
But however, in their investigation,。
in their historical studies,。
they find that the tomb is indeed empty.。
And how do you explain that?。
There's no way you can explain that by science。
or by history unless you adopt the biblical explanation.。
The biblical reason for the empty tomb is,。
unless we adopt, look at the quote below,。
we adopt a theological one, which is the biblical reason,。
the resurrection of the Son of God.。
And Shimon Gibson is very interesting.。
He end this book by saying,。
I'll leave it to you guys, all right?。
This goes beyond our human proofs.。
But do you want to accept what the Bible says?。
That is faith, right?。
So it's not blind faith.。
It is based on historical reality.。
And that's why in the Bible, it tells us。
resurrection is the core and foundation。
of everything that we believe, the entire Bible.。
Paul said, if Christ has not been risen,。
all our preaching is useless and your faith is useless.。
I like the SV translation, in vain, you know?。
Everything, every single thing that we do,。
that we talk about, that we believe in, is in vain.。
It's useless, it's stupid.。
It's just nonsense if Christ has not been risen.。
But he has been raised.。
He was resurrected from the dead.。
And give us new chapter, give us new hope.。
And I have been trying to focus on the fact。
that God is trying to bring the new heaven。
and new earth to us.。
And he began the new creation project。
in the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
Not someday in the future,。
but already it has broken into our lives。
if we accept Christ.。
That's why the Bible keeps on talking about,。
in Christ, the old is gone, the new has come, right?。
Speaking of new chapter, speaking of new beginning,。
you know, I hope you feel that way recently,。
'cause spring has finally come to Chicago, right?。
The long-awaited spring has already come.。
And for my personal life, it has also come,。
a new chapter, a new, sort of a new beginning,。
and it feels good about it.。
You know, I'll tell you what,。
in the past term, a few months,。
has been really, really tough.。
You know why?。
Because Rachel has come back to Chicago。
for student teaching,。
and she has to go to Healy School to do the teaching.。
And then she has to show up 7.30 in the morning,。
on time, right?。
And, you know, being a good father,。
I give her a ride every single morning,。
every single, well, one or two,。
I give them by mom, right?。
Okay, all right, good for her.。
You know, if you know me enough,。
I'm not an early riser.。
I've never been.。
You know, the most efficient hours of my day,。
I don't know about you.。
How many of you are early riser?。
Kelly, you are?。
What time do you wake up, usually?。
- [Kelly] I'm a fatherly.。
- Okay, okay, adult, right?。
So, she is early riser.。
Make you one.。
And, you know, I've never been.。
The most efficient hours for my day。
is 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.。
Anyone amen to that?。
There you go, right?。
That's my most efficient hour.。
I can get so much done at night, right?。
Night hour.。
So, when she came back, when Rachel came back,。
I had to drive her every single morning.。
It's killing me.。
It's killing me.。
I'm sure it's killing her as well.。
But finally, last week, last Friday,。
it was the last day of her work.。
So, praise God.。
Hallelujah, hallelujah.。
So, I feel kind of good.。
I don't have to, you know, think about this anymore,。
or at least for the time being.。
I don't have to do it anymore.。
So, you know, I'm so glad to drive her to Starbucks。
to get some, you know, bonus, right?。
Some sandwich and some coffee in the last week,。
and that's good.。
So, that's a new beginning.。
A new attitude, right?。
New attitude of morning, to at night, to my life, right?。
That is what the resurrection should bring us.。
A new beginning.。
The new creation has begun。
in the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
That's why the Bible talks so much about resurrection.。
Many, many times, all four Gospels,。
all the New Testament letters,。
at least they talk about it explicitly,。
or they stress on it as the foundation of our faith.。
Why do we follow Jesus?。
Because we are not following a dead man.。
We are following a living God, a living person,。
Jesus Christ himself.。
And today, we would like to take a look。
at one of the stories of the encounter of the risen Christ,。
and Paul's, the apostle Paul's own encounter。
of the risen Christ.。
Now, according to the timeline of the Bible,。
Paul seems to be, the apostle Paul,。
seems to be the last person。
who has witnessed the risen Christ.。
And we found this record in the chapter nine。
of the book of Acts.。
We're gonna read through some of the verses here,。
the story, the historical record,。
and then there are a couple of questions。
I want to quiz on you.。
All right, nine one.。
Meanwhile, Saul was uttering threats.。
With every breath,。
and was eager to kill the Lord's followers.。
So Saul, Saul is Paul, Paul is Saul,。
two different languages.。
He went to the high priest,。
and he requested letters addressed to the synagogues。
in Damascus, asking for the cooperation。
in the arrest of any followers of the way,。
the way of Jesus, the way of the Lord.。
He found there.。
He wanted to bring them, both men and women,。
back to Jerusalem in chains.。
As he was approaching Damascus on this mission,。
a light from heaven suddenly shone down around him.。
He fell on the ground and heard a voice saying to him,。
Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?。
Who are you, Lord, Saul asked.。
The voice replied, I'm Jesus, the one you are persecuting.。
Now get up and go into the city.。
You will be told what you must do.。
The man with Saul stood speechless,。
for they heard the sound of someone's voice,。
but saw no one.。
Saul picked himself up off the ground,。
but when he opened his eyes, he was blind.。
So his companions led him by the hand to Damascus, the city.。
He remained there blind for three days。
and did not eat, did not drink.。
Now this is a story, and it's such a dramatic story,。
and there are two points here.。
And first of all, two questions first.。
What was Paul planning to do in Damascus?。
To write a letter or to persecute Christians。
or to meet the high priest?。
What is it?。
To be, right?。
To persecute Christians.。
All right, that's easy, right?。
The harder one here.。
Where did the raising Christ appear to Paul?。
On the way to Jerusalem, to Samaria, or to Damascus?。
Which one?。
See, right?。
Damascus, right?。
Damascus.。
Not Jerusalem, away from Jerusalem,。
away from the hill country of Samaria,。
coming on his way, approaching Damascus.。
The two points here.。
First, this story, we see the raising Christ。
in an unworthy place.。
Unworthy place, unexpected.。
Second, Christ, who is resurrected,。
for an unworthy person.。
Two points.。
Now I think we need to understand this passage.。
We first need to understand the background of Paul.。
Who is this guy?。
Who is this Paul or Saul, right?。
Now I think one of the ways we can understand him。
is that he is kind of like the super orthodox Jew,。
in his days, right?。
Super orthodox, super kosher, right?。
And following the law straightly,。
following the traditions of Judaism straightly.。
And today we can kind of picture him。
as some of the ultra orthodox people, right?。
These are called the ultra orthodox Jews, right?。
Where can you find them?。
Some in Skokie, right?。
Some in Brooklyn.。
And of course, many of them in Jerusalem, right?。
And they are the super conservative communities,。
especially they are following straightly the Shabbat,。
the Torah, going to synagogues on time,。
wear black and white all the time.。
Isn't that nice, black and white all the time?。
You don't have to worry about your outfit。
every single morning.。
You just open your closet, everything is the same, you know?。
'Cause they put the energy in。
following the way of the Torah, right?。
And Paul is 100% or even 200% of orthodox Jew.。
Now, if you go to Jerusalem today,。
say, I usually drive my own car, rental car.。
If I drive at the wrong time,。
in the wrong neighborhood, in one of those neighborhoods,。
on the wrong time, like Shabbat,。
I can get stoned easily。
'cause you are violating the most sacred law, right?。
So, you know, we got to know our way, right?。
We can't just drive into the religious orthodox community。
without knowing the timing, right?。
So you can get stoned, you know?。
You got to be very, very careful.。
These are the people like Paul.。
And Paul in his day, you need to understand,。
he was one of the super Pharisees, right?。
Super Pharisees.。
And the Pharisees trying to do their best。
to follow the letters of the Torah.。
Now, sometimes we got it wrong.。
Sometimes we thought, okay, these people,。
they are doing some work righteousness.。
They're trying to follow the Torah and fulfill the Torah。
so that they can get so-called saved in Christian terms,。
so that they can be considered the chosen people.。
No, I think we got it wrong.。
It's the other way around.。
In Paul's day, Judaism means。
some of the people, the Jews, the orthodox Jews,。
they consider themselves as chosen people.。
And because of this identity,。
that's why they show you who they are.。
That's why they observe the law.。
That's why they do the law,。
not because they want to be counted as the people of God.。
Oh, there are one or two laws I violate,。
so I'm not the people of God.。
I have to fulfill those.。
No, it's the other way around.。
They are chosen people.。
That's their identity.。
So they don't want to compromise their identity.。
That's why they want to do the law.。
They set up different boundaries around them,。
time boundaries, geographical boundaries,。
to not to compromise their identity.。
Who do you eat with?。
That's one of the boundary,。
one of the cultural religious boundary.。
How to worship, what time to go to worship.。
In Paul's days, Pharisees like Paul,。
believe that if everyone observe the law completely,。
then the kingdom of God will arrive.。
That's why they want to follow the law.。
That's why they're zealous and enthusiastic。
about doing the law.。
Because this is not an individual thing to do.。
Everyone, every Israelites, Jew,。
if we all follow the law,。
then the kingdom of God will be ushered in.。
There's only one way.。
We follow the law together.。
So not only I follow the law,。
I want to make you to follow the law.。
And you are zealous about following the law,。
me zealous about following the law,。
all of us, the entire community, the entire people,。
then the kingdom of God will come.。
That is our hope.。
That is the means.。
Now this explain, this kind of background will explain。
why Saul or Paul would persecute the Christians.。
The early Christians in the first century, who were they?。
Ethnically speaking, who were they?。
Jew.。
They were Jewish people.。
They were Jewish people 100%, ethnically speaking, right?。
And they recognized Jesus as the Messiah.。
Now to Paul as the Pharisee, this is troubling.。
That's not good, right?。
For one thing, you believe in Jesus the Messiah。
being crucified on the cross.。
That is a shameful thing, right?。
That's a stumbling block.。
And secondly, there's no way that he rose from the dead.。
There's no way that this man being crucified on the cross。
and his tomb was empty.。
There's no way you can get around that.。
That's why Paul was trying to stop this Christian church,。
you know, Jewish Christians,。
or what we call today Messianic Jews.。
Those people who are Jewish。
and recognize Jesus as the Messiah.。
And Paul was trying to do his best as a Pharisee。
to stop this so-called virus from spreading out, you know?。
Remember the outbreak of COVID, right?。
Everyone go to the computer, check what?。
Check the world map, right?。
And see the red dots, you know, spreading around,。
you know, different countries and different regions.。
And, "Oh, it's coming to my place.。
"It's coming to our region."。
And we are scared, right?。
You know, most of us are Asians.。
We are scared.。
Well, Asians are easily being scared, right?。
We are free of death.。
That's why we pay attention to those dots, right?。
And the spread of the virus.。
And Paul in his day as a Pharisee,。
as a super culture rabbi, he was so concerned about this.。
That's why the story of chapter nine happened.。
What is Paul trying to do?。
You look at this map.。
Where is Paul going?。
He begins from Jerusalem, he goes north.。
And then most likely he avoid,。
not the most straightforward path to go north。
because who are those people in the north?。
Samaria, right?。
The Samaritans, right?。
You know, Samaritans and Jews,。
you know, a little bit background,。
you know, they are like,。
they don't like each other, right?。
They don't eat with each other.。
They're actually hostile to one another.。
So he probably scroll around。
the northern Samaria kill country,。
and then go up north to that, you know,。
little lake there, the Sea of Galilee,。
and then go northeast and climb the plateau。
of what we call Golan Heights today,。
and go into a Gentile, totally Gentile territories.。
And the foothill of Mount Hermon, can you make it out?。
Mount Hermon, he is on his way to Damascus.。
It's, that is a total of 150 miles。
and six days of walking nonstop.。
Now, if I were Paul, I have super culture,。
you know, Orthodox Jew, super culture Rabbi,。
I would be so, I'd probably not be walking.。
I'll be running, you know, I'll be running.。
I'll be running for a few, you know, marathon races.。
Let's try to get to Damascus.。
But your question is, why Damascus?。
Why Damascus?。
Why not other cities?。
Why not Chicago, right?。
Why Damascus?。
Now, remember, when the early church begins to be persecuted。
by the authorities, Roman authorities。
or Jerusalem authorities,。
the Christians were scattered everywhere。
'cause they are trying to, you know,。
run away from troubles, right?。
And bringing with them the gospel, right?。
That's what the book of Acts is all about.。
When persecution came to Jerusalem,。
to the Jewish Christians, they scattered off。
to different towns and villages or cities.。
And Damascus is at the crossroad of civilizations.。
It's the international center of the day.。
If you go to Damascus, then you can go right,。
you go to today's Iraq, Mesopotamia,。
a lot of Jews over there since exile of Babylon.。
And then if you turn left from Damascus,。
you go to what they call Turkey, Asia Minor,。
and then Europe, right?。
And a lot of Jews in Diaspora,。
they're scattered into different synagogues.。
And you know, they said Damascus is like New York.。
It's today's New York.。
It's a crossroad of everything.。
It's an international crossroad.。
That's why the apostle Paul,。
well, back then he was not the apostle,。
the super-cultural rabbi Paul.。
He went to Damascus, that's why he went there.。
Because he wanted to do,。
probably he wanted to engage with some preemptive strike。
against the early Christianity, right?。
That is how you stop Christianity from spreading, right?。
That's how you stop the so-called virus from spreading.。
You go to the frontier and try to persecute them。
and bring them back to Jerusalem.。
That is the mindset of Paul.。
Now, you need to also understand。
the Jewish super-cultural rabbi's mindset.。
Paul, what was Paul thinking?。
And in some way, in the first century,。
Judaism, what Paul believed in,。
he was advocating some sort of, you know,。
Second Temple Judaism or First Century Judaism.。
And there are three T's in Judaism, in Paul's day.。
The first T is time, second is Torah, third is temple.。
Time, Torah, and temple.。
Now, what do I mean by that?。
If you follow the law, you need to observe the time.。
Time of Shabbat, especially, right?。
It's time to worship,。
and you have to follow the law, straightly.。
Torah, of course.。
And then, most importantly for this story, is temple.。
The most sacred place on the planet Earth,。
the entire universe, is one place,。
and you can find it on the map.。
You can point it to a GPS coordinates.。
That is where the temple is.。
That's where the holy of holy is.。
Even today, Orthodox Jews,。
they pray toward some direction, right?。
Not to Chicago.。
They pray facing Jerusalem, right?。
They pray and praise,。
they live their life toward that direction.。
You go to Western Wall,。
why do the Orthodox Jews would go to Western Wall。
more than any place else?。
You know, Western Wall is simply an open air synagogue.。
It's like open air church.。
So people just go there to read scripture,。
to read Torah and pray.。
That's why they go to the wall,。
because the wall is closest that they can get today,。
to the holy place, the most holy place,。
you know, where the golden dome of the rock has mark.。
That's why they wanna go to Western Wall, right?。
For Paul, the most sacred place on Earth,。
the sacred spot is Jerusalem.。
Now with that in mind, you can understand,。
Paul is not simply a Roman citizen。
traveling from one region to another, right?。
It's not like us traveling from Chicago to San Francisco,。
or Chicago to Indianapolis.。
It's not from one region to another region.。
Nothing is neutral for them.。
Jerusalem is the most sacred place.。
And the further away from Jerusalem,。
the secular you get.。
So there is a sacred and profane difference.。
For Paul traveling from Jerusalem to Damascus,。
he's actually traveling from a sacred place,。
the most sacred place, to the territory of the enemies.。
Where is Damascus?。
Damascus is in what we call Golan Heights or beyond, Syria.。
In the Old Testament, it's Aram.。
If you know a little bit about the Old Testament history,。
you know Arameans, people from that region,。
and the Israelites in Israel or in Judah,。
they were always enemies.。
So for Paul, for this super-kosher rabbi,。
he was actually going from a friendly place。
to the enemy's territory.。
And that's why it is totally unexpected。
for Paul to meet and encounter the living God.。
On his way to Damascus, there was no way.。
And that's why for three days he did not eat。
or he did not drink.。
It's just earth-shaking for him.。
It shake up his whole world.。
And he was dumbfounded and silent for three days.。
He's trying to figure out what the heck is going on.。
I did not expect God to show up on the way to Damascus。
in the territory of the enemies.。
I expect God to show up where?。
In the temple, right?。
In Jerusalem, in the most sacred place on earth, right?。
And the resurrected Christ is telling us。
that he is no longer bound by territories.。
He is no longer bound by geographical boundaries.。
Everywhere he is, because he has ascended。
to the right hand of the Father.。
He is the resurrected Christ.。
He is the living God.。
He is not bound by anything else on the Google map.。
You can meet God here,。
as well as you can meet God in Jerusalem.。
I remember some people who joined my Israel trip.。
Sometimes we go to the Western Wall, right?。
Everyone wants to go to the Western Wall, right?。
At least you need to take a picture there.。
And they kind of find themselves in a situation.。
Oh, this is the temple.。
And they say, "Hey, Pastor Mark, please,。
"this is the temple.。
"This is the most holy place."。
And I said, "No, no, this is not the holy place.。
"The holy place is in the person of Christ, amen?。
"You no longer worship Christ on the GPS coordinate.。
"You worship Christ in the living person.。
"The dead, once dead, and now risen, Christ himself."。
And that's why in this story,。
the risen Christ is showing up。
in an unworthy, unexpected place.。
And second point is that the risen Christ。
show himself, demonstrate himself to an unworthy person.。
Now, if you ask your friends,。
you know, if you have some neighbors,。
you may be able to, well, most likely,。
you can kind of put them on a kind of spectrum.。
How close are they to God?。
How close are they to the gospel?。
Some of your friends or some of your people。
that you know or neighbors,。
you may, at least in human speaking,。
they're so far away from the gospel, right?。
Maybe they're even hostile to the gospel.。
And some of them may be more interested in faith。
and asking you questions。
and you answer some of the questions.。
You know, you could put them on a spectrum.。
You know, humanly speaking.。
And then you think about it.。
Paul is actually the least expected person。
to come to Christ, right?。
He's again, super culture rabbi, right?。
Super culture, orthodox Jew.。
How would you expect him to come to Christ?。
And this story, quite unexpectedly and surprisingly,。
telling us the persecutor of the church coming to faith。
because the power of the risen Christ.。
And there is a second point.。
God's saving grace in an unworthy person.。
Essentially, you think about it,。
that applies to all of us, right?。
We're not more worthy than other people to come to Christ.。
It's all about saving grace.。
If you track the story of the book of Acts,。
you can start with chapter seven,。
a little bit before the story that we read.。
Paul's conversion, the way to Damascus, chapter nine.。
Chapter seven already talks about God showing himself,。
his glory to many different people.。
And that is the long sermon of Stephen, the first martyr.。
And in that long sermon in chapter seven,。
he's actually doing something like a summary。
of the entire Old Testament.。
So we start with Abraham,。
that the glory of God showed to Abraham。
in a foreign place, in Mesopotamia.。
Where was Abraham from?。
Where was he from?。
Country of birth.。
Mesopotamia, Iraq.。
In some sense, Abraham is Iraqi.。
He was not straightly an Israelite.。
He's a foreigner, but God showed himself to him.。
And then Stephen surveyed the Old Testament story。
and saying that in wilderness,。
God showed himself to Moses and to the Israelites.。
And he talks about different episodes。
of the Old Testament story,。
and God will show them the glory。
and be present with his people.。
And interestingly, what is not mentioned。
in Stephen's sermon was Jerusalem.。
He never talked about Jerusalem, the first temple,。
the glory of God filled the temple。
when it was devastated in the time of Solomon.。
He never mentioned that.。
At the end of his sermon, his punchline here,。
the most high God does not live in temple。
made by human hands.。
He was probably, he was speaking this sermon in Jerusalem.。
He was probably pointing to the temple.。
And that's why the Jews wanted to kill him, right?。
You speak bad words about our temple.。
Are you kidding me?。
Right?。
And then they stone him.。
And then chapter eight, Philip sent to Samaria.。
Samaria, the enemy's territory.。
Samaritans, unworthy of Christ.。
And they came to Christ.。
And then the end of chapter eight,。
he was being sent to a eunuch。
and somebody with defect in his body.。
And he's unworthy to go into the temple,。
going to the presence of God to see God.。
But God show himself to this unworthy man.。
And then chapter nine is Paul's conversion.。
Chapter 10, Peter is being sent to Caesarea Militima.。
Caesarea was the Las Vegas of the first century.。
And he met a guy called Cornelius, a Roman,。
someone who is enemy to the Jews.。
And he came to faith.。
He was unworthy.。
And everyone is unworthy.。
But the living Christ show himself to them.。
And story after story proves one point,。
that God's glory, God's grace is extended to all,。
is not bound by human boundaries.。
And God's resurrection power can be displayed。
in every single one of us, even you and me.。
And that's why Paul and his chapter,。
chapter 15 of first Corinthians,。
he says, "I am not the worthy one to receive this grace,。
"special favor on me.。
"I work harder than anyone because I feel unworthy,。
"because I sense, I feel this grace is so real to me."。
The living Christ showing himself to me.。
And made me a new man, a new beginning.。
In Christ, we do have new beginning.。
Paul is the proof.。
And you are the proof.。
We are the proof.。
In Christ, we should be new,。
in some foundational way.。
I'll close with one story.。
I know a sister, a sister in Christ in Israel,。
some years ago.。
And she has been coming to church for worship。
very faithfully.。
And she is married to a Jewish man.。
And as you know, most of the Jews,。
they don't accept Jesus as Messiah.。
This is, you kidding me?。
This is a joke, right?。
This is something block.。
But eventually, you know,。
I spent some time in Israel, in Jerusalem,。
and I often go to that church every single week.。
And then eventually, her husband comes to the church.。
And according to her husband,。
why is he attracted to the church?。
He's a Jewish man.。
And he said, "Very simple.。
"Because I see the differences。
"the gospel makes in my wife's life."。
And he said, you know, every single week。
after she goes to church,。
the husband feels like she's different.。
She's like some sort of new person.。
Joyful, more positive, you know,。
dealing with life issues, you know.。
A foundationally different way.。
And, you know, cooking is better, at least for the day.。
So he says the difference, you know.。
I see, you know, that's the whole point of the story.。
Sometimes we come to church, we feel like,。
oh, this is such a burden, right?。
A checkbox, okay, I'm done, okay?。
Okay, I go on my way Monday to Saturday, right?。
Okay, you know, forget about it.。
This is what the difference should make in our lives.。
A new beginning, right?。
A new pursuit.。
Back in our old self, back in our old days,。
what do you pursue about?。
What do you think about most of the time?。
You know, lust, material things?。
What do you concern about?。
What do you worry about?。
You know, the living Christ who died and rose again。
should give us a new start。
so that we can work toward the new world,。
which is the new heaven and new earth.。
We pray that we can do that and make that decision today.。
Think about what resurrection will make。
a foundational difference in your life,。
your attitude, your direction, right?。
The object of your pursuit.。
Everything will be ruled by Christ。
and we are working toward that goal, right?。
Let's all pray and close.。
And we're gonna sing our last song,。
"You Are My No No,"。
and I ask that you praise Him to come up here.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, as we close,。
we ask that your Spirit will remind us。
the old things that are still, you know,。
putting a hose on our lives,。
making us to look back all the time.。
And I pray, I pray that you will make us new.。
In Christ, who has died and rose again,。
He is the one who give us hope.。
He is the one who give us a new chapter。
and help us to be in Christ.。
The old has gone and the new has come.。
And praise you, Father,。
because we believe and we follow a living Christ.。
Show yourself, show your glory。
in this place, this unworthy place.。
Show your glory and your grace to this unworthy person.。
And thank you for your grace.。
In Christ, we pray.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
