- All right, thanks Kelly.。
I know some of you cannot be here。
and some of you are online being with us。
because they got sick and we wanna pray for them.。
And some of those in our community also out of town,。
they went back home and visit their own country。
and they will be back, all right?。
So let's pray.。
Father, give thanks for giving us this community,。
this spiritual family.。
We can study your word and we can worship you together.。
And we pray for those who are not with us today.。
Maybe they are sick,。
maybe they're going to their home country for visitation。
and I pray for safety, I pray for healing.。
And especially those of us who are struggling。
with our own personal challenges,。
remind us God, remind us that you are our great God。
and you are greater than all the issues。
and all the problems and challenges that we are facing.。
So we come before you and to get to know you,。
come before you to worship you and exalt your name。
because we know that you are a great God。
and we can trust in you.。
And increase our faith, increase our love for the community。
that we can grow your church together.。
We can glorify your name together in Christ name pray.。
Well, as you can see on the screen,。
I'm going to start a new sermon series.。
This series is on the TV series,。
very successful, very popular these days.。
It's been popular for a while, "The Chosen."。
How many of you have been watching "Chosen"?。
None of you?。
Only two, oh my God.。
Well, you have to watch it because for a long while,。
I resist to watch it because I just didn't have time, right?。
But in the past few weeks,。
my daughter finally convinced me to watch episode two.。
And I was kind of trying to entertain her desire。
and sit down and watch with her.。
And watching like a few episodes and I just love it。
because the scenes that they take。
and the storylines that they create,。
although it's not straightly biblical storyline,。
but of course they add some poetic license。
and some creativity there and here.。
But I'm just amazed how well it is done.。
And I have watched quite a few episodes already.。
And as you know, this is a historical drama。
based on the true story of Jesus.。
And we know that we are followers of Jesus Christ。
and Jesus is a historical figure.。
Now you can find the record of Jesus' life。
in sources outside of the Bible.。
There are some Roman sources, there's some Jewish sources.。
We can find a little bit the story of Jesus,。
but mostly we find in the gospels, in the New Testament.。
And as you know, the first four books of the New Testament,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the gospels,。
the four gospels have recorded quite a bit details。
about the life of Jesus.。
And I know the church is always composed of people。
of different walks of life.。
Some of you may be just beginning in your faith journey。
trying to know Jesus,。
trying to understand who this guy is, right?。
And some of us have been a Christians for a long, long time。
and your experience for church。
and your experience of what the Bible says.。
I think as we watch this series,。
and I do encourage you to watch episode two,。
this series will help you picture。
the first century life of Jesus.。
It will help you to understand。
what the Bible is talking about.。
And for seekers, it is helpful.。
For new Christians, it is helpful.。
Then for experienced long-time Christians,。
it is also helpful.。
Even I find it helpful.。
And I'm going to do the series by referring to the episode,。
and then I'll come back to the Bible and say something。
and pinpoint something。
that is highlighted in different episodes.。
I hope you understand, this is not the Bible,。
but it's a recreation of the biblical stories about Jesus.。
So do watch "The Chosen."。
I don't get commission, right?。
We don't get commission.。
I don't get any money,。
but do watch it because it is so well done.。
And watch "The Chosen" and think the Bible and your faith.。
That would be the slogan here, all right?。
As I told you, the gospels, we call it the life of Jesus,。
and Jesus is a historical figure.。
And you can find sources outside of the Bible.。
You find something about Jesus and his context。
and his background.。
Now, Jesus was a Jew living in Israel, Palestine.。
And back in Jesus' day, the Jews, or the Jewish people,。
were under the military occupation of the Roman Empire.。
They had a pretty tough life.。
And they were under heavy weight of taxes,。
all kinds of taxes, income taxes, property taxes,。
all kinds of taxes pressing on the Jewish people.。
And as we all know, we also have our tax day, right?。
And we don't like the IRS, right?。
We don't like them.。
I'm sorry if you work for IRS, good job.。
But we generally refuse to think about taxes, right?。
And you can just imagine what life would have been。
for the Jewish people under the Roman occupation.。
They had a very, very tough life.。
And because the Jewish people had a long traditions。
for yearning for freedom, yearning for liberty,。
yearning for having their own nation,。
and every single year in the Passover meal,。
they will recite one story,。
and the foundational story in the Old Testament.。
And what was that?。
The Passover, right?。
The Passover.。
Moses came and liberate them from the land of slavery,。
defeat the oppressor, the Pharaoh, the king of Egypt,。
and then free the people up,。
and then they can really be the people of God, right?。
So they were yearning for freedom,。
they were yearning for liberty,。
and that's why in the Jewish tradition,。
there's always been people who was trying to fight back,。
right?。
That is the entire Old Testament,。
trying, saying something about the hope。
that God will reestablish his long lost kingdom on earth.。
Now the Jewish people were under Rome.。
And that is the context of the life of Jesus。
and the first four books of the New Testament,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.。
Now if you compare the Gospels, the four Gospels,。
and other ancient biographies of the day,。
you'll find that there were similarities。
because the ancient biographies,。
they were not interested in the personal life。
of the public figure.。
You know, we, modern people, we are really interested。
in the private life of the public figure, right?。
You know, the autobiography of Obama, right?。
Trump, Hillary Clinton, right?。
You check all those books, you know,。
they're trying to dig out, you know,。
their romances, right?。
Their history of personal life, right?。
Did they ace the test?。
And did they fight with their classmates, right?。
What happened when they grow up?。
And all that stuff.。
This is modern biographies.。
We're interested in the private life of the individuals.。
But ancient biographies, like the Gospels,。
they're not interested in the private life。
of the individuals.。
They are interested only in the public record。
of the individual.。
Something you can find in the official archive,。
you know, from the database.。
Everybody knows about it, right?。
And then they write autobiographies of the famous people.。
People like Plato, Aristotle, philosophers,。
Augustus, Roman Empire, Pilate,。
the Roman governor of Palestine at the time.。
They are only interested in their public life.。
That is ancient biographies, and that is Gospels.。
So you flip the pages of the first four of Gospels,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,。
it doesn't talk about, you know, Jesus.。
Any girl had a crush on Jesus when he was in high school.。
Nobody cares, right?。
They only care about his public ministry, public life.。
So let's say we are in the fellowship,。
the Paneo fellowship, we are doing Bible study,。
and on chapter one, Gospel of Mark,。
all of a sudden Jesus came, right?。
And he started preaching the message of the kingdom.。
The kingdom is here, right?。
So you repent, and we turn back to God.。
Jesus was already an adult.。
So they only are interested。
in the public life of the individual.。
So we have to keep that in mind when we read the Gospels,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.。
So here we compare the Gospels and the Chosen, all right?。
So this is episode one, all right?。
So go back home, and I think it's on Netflix, right?。
It's on Netflix, or Amazon Prime, or even on the website.。
You can watch the Chosen.。
Let me highlight episode one here.。
Of course, it's based on the true stories of Gospel,。
and the movie makers make their own creativity。
and add their poetic license in there.。
This is one of the screen cap in the beginning.。
But episode one, let me summarize it,。
and I translate for those who are reading Chinese.。
But on the left column, episode one is called。
I Have Called You By Name.。
Now, let me give you a summary, only four points.。
Now, the story start with 2 BC, all right?。
Two years before the common era.。
There was Mary Madeline.。
She was a little girl, and she was with her father,。
and she wakes up all the time in the middle of the night,。
and don't know why, she was scared of something.。
And her father reminds her, Isaiah 43, one.。
And that is a scripture we're gonna read later.。
But she was afraid, but because of this word of God in her,。
and she could go through all these dark times.。
And then, the second point, the story is fast forward,。
28 years later, now Mary Madeline was an adult.。
And she goes by the name Lilith.。
Lilith, because she was possessed by demons, many demons.。
And she was suffering so much.。
Perhaps in the video, in the movie,。
she is involved in prostitution,。
or she was attacked by people,。
but she fought back and she hurt someone,。
and so the community were very, very concerned。
about her being heavily possessed by the demons.。
Then number four, no, number three.。
There was a rabbi, well respected in Jerusalem,。
and also in Galilee, but his name is Nicodemus.。
He travels to Capernaum, which is a fishing port。
by the Sea of Galilee, and some fishermen were catching fish。
on the Shabbat, which was illegal.。
And they did so because they wanna avoid taxes,。
the Roman taxes, 'cause whatever you catch on the Shabbat,。
it's not counted as your income, I guess.。
So they were violating the law of Shabbat,。
and they don't wanna pay extra income tax.。
But the Romans asked Nicodemus,。
the well-respected leader, the rabbi,。
to help catch or arrest some of the Jewish fishermen.。
And then later on, Nicodemus found himself。
facing the demon-possessed Mary Magdalene, or Lilith,。
trying to cast the demons out of her, but he failed.。
He failed miserably, and finally,。
Jesus comes on scene, unexpectedly,。
and he cast out the demons and free Mary。
from demon possession.。
So Jesus call her not Lilith,。
call her by name, Mary.。
So that's episode one.。
We do some biblical reflection here.。
Another main storyline in episode one。
is definitely Mary Magdalene.。
She goes by the name Lilith.。
Now, you have to understand why Lilith,。
why people call her Lilith,。
because when she was possessed by demons.。
Because in later Jewish traditions,。
or later legends in Jewish mythology,。
Lilith was the name for the female demon.。
So the entire community, according to this episode,。
call her Lilith, because she was heavily possessed。
by demons, and she suffered quite a bit.。
And Jesus came to redeem her.。
And you have to understand,。
this is actually mentioned in the gospels.。
Let me turn to the gospel of Luke, chapter eight.。
In chapter eight, we find the name Mary Magdalene.。
In fact, we find a list of names,。
people, male, and especially female, following Jesus.。
Here Luke says in chapter eight, verse one,。
"Soon after, Jesus began a tour。
"of the nearby towns and villages in Galilee,。
"preaching and announcing the good news。
"of the kingdom of God.。
"He took with him 12 disciples," the 12, right?。
"And along with some women,。
"who had been killed of evil spirits and diseases.。
"Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary Magdalene,。
"from whom Jesus had cast out seven demons."。
So again, is it really seven?。
Count one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.。
Or maybe this is a complete number.。
That means she was being possessed by many demons,。
completely controlled by the demon.。
Mary Magdalene, and then Joanna, and Susanna,。
and some other women, they were following Jesus,。
contribute to his ministry and support Jesus。
and his disciples with their own financial resources.。
And that is the first time Mary Magdalene。
show up in the Bible.。
If you chase this name, this character in the New Testament,。
you find an amazing character being transformed。
by the grace of God, Mary Magdalene.。
So here I summarize Mary Magdalene in the Bible.。
Now she's called Mary Magdalene。
because Magdalene means the person from Matalah.。
And Matalah is a fishing port just south of Capernaum.。
Now some people would follow me to tour Israel。
from time to time, right?。
I lead a tourist group to Israel almost every single year.。
You'll find if you drive today, if you drive,。
usually we drive, I drive from Capernaum to Matalah,。
it only take about 15 minutes, right?。
If I drive faster, probably 10 minutes, I'll be there.。
Right, so it's very close by fishing ports.。
And both these fishing ports are on the main。
international highway of the ancient day.。
So they're small towns, but they're very, very important。
because they are by the seashore of the Sea of Galilee,。
and they're selling fish and catching fish.。
And Jesus began his public ministry in Capernaum.。
That is the reason, because he could preach the good news。
of the kingdom of God on the international highway, right?。
On the 1994, right, Kennedy Highway, right?。
And who would not catch that, right?。
And he was announcing and preaching the good news。
in Capernaum.。
And just some of it is this fishing town,。
fishing port called Matalah.。
So Mary Madeline simply means Mary from Matalah.。
And then you chase the story, we read Luke 8 too.。
She was one of the female followers of Jesus.。
Now in this list, what is surprising is, Luke 8,。
we just read there are many names of women.。
What is surprising, and you have to understand the Bible。
in its own context.。
Because in Jesus' day, Jewish rabbis, there were many。
of them, they usually will find, will have male students.。
You know, male disciples would follow a certain famous。
rabbi, right?。
Just like us, we wanna, when we go to university,。
we wanna go to the best university, right?。
We wanna go to Hartford, right?。
Go to Stanford.。
In those days, you know, male students, you know,。
like the 12, they really, really wanna get into。
the best school of their day, right?。
And Jesus was one of the rabbis.。
And of course, male students would want to follow him.。
But here's the day, this is the norm of the day.。
Rabbis only have male students, male disciples.。
Hardly you find any rabbi would have females following him.。
And Jesus broke the norm.。
He was calling and allowing females to follow him。
from town to town, village to village, city to city,。
to do the ministry and to preach the gospel.。
And Mary Madeline was one of them.。
And how did the Bible introduce Mary Madeline?。
Not in a very good way, right?。
Because she had been cast out, seven demons out of her.。
She was heavily suffering, oppressed by the demons.。
But you can see how the Bible introduced her.。
Her life has been changed.。
Her life has been changed by Jesus.。
Now, you know a thing or two about life change.。
When we make the commitment to Jesus Christ,。
our lives should have been changed, at least fundamentally.。
Now, it doesn't convert me from a sinner to a saint.。
It doesn't do that.。
Because no matter how many years I'm in Christ,。
I'm still 100% a sinner, right?。
I've known Jesus for, for how many years?。
Oh boy, 30 some years.。
Yeah, 30 some years, right?。
Since I was a youth.。
No, my life has been fundamentally changed.。
You know, my value system, my perspective on the world,。
my perspective on myself, my self image,。
how I understand other people.。
These are all changed because of Jesus,。
because of the gospel.。
How I see, you know, how the world。
has been changing around me.。
And how do I see that from the kingdom of God。
perspective?。
Those are the things that should happen in your life。
when you make a commitment to make Jesus Christ。
your Lord and Savior.。
That is the life change that should be a reality。
for all Jesus followers.。
And that was the reality for Mary, Marylyn.。
Now, I think the best analogy for talking about life change。
is immigration, immigration.。
Now, some of you, some of you know what immigration。
is all about, right?。
Because you know it firsthand.。
Immigration means you leave your own country, right?。
And you come to a new country,。
and you try to settle down here.。
When you come to this new country,。
you learn new culture, right?。
New customs, other language.。
And you still remember your old ways of life, right?。
As an immigrant, you still remember your old ways of life,。
but now you're in a new land, right?。
You probably still value your cultural root, right?。
Like Chinese New Year, right?。
I mean, who cares?。
Oh, you care, right?。
I've been to America for many, many years,。
and I lost track, right?。
I don't do all of this.。
I don't give money to my kids.。
My kids are born here.。
And once they find out, oh, they have the Chinese heritage,。
sometimes when they were still younger,。
they were still hopeful that I'll give them money。
in Chinese New Year.。
I said, no, this is America.。
We don't do that.。
Now they don't have that hope anymore, right?。
Because we are in a new land, new custom, right?。
And you understand you still value your cultural tradition,。
but there's a huge difference.。
The huge difference for you is the previous kingdom,。
the previous authority, the political power,。
or rules no longer have any holds on you, right?。
You drive here, it's not the same way you drive。
in Hong Kong or in China, right?。
Or in Japan.。
You drive differently in America.。
In Chicago, you drive differently, right?。
You drive totally different,。
because you belong to the new country, not the old one.。
Yes, you still have some memories,。
but now you're in the new land.。
You're under a different kingdom, right?。
The previous political power had no holds on you.。
And the Bible tells us the same sense.。
We were under the kingdom of Satan,。
darkness and sin and shame before Christ.。
And now we came to Christ, we came to know Jesus.。
The power of sin and shame will still have influence on us,。
but it shouldn't have any authority over you.。
It may influence you.。
It may affect you, still, it may.。
But you don't answer to those authorities.。
You don't answer to sin.。
You don't answer to darkness.。
You don't answer to Satan.。
You only answer to the new authority,。
which is the kingdom of God.。
God is the only king in this new order of things, right?。
You answer to Jesus only.。
Whenever you make decisions, especially important decisions,。
you should think in terms of what the true king,。
what the true king desires.。
You should always orient your life。
according to this new kingdom of God.。
And that is the life change that should be happening。
in all the followers of Jesus.。
And that is what happened to Mary Magdalene.。
Her life was changed.。
And that's why in this episode, when Jesus came,。
cast out all the demons,。
the demons had no holds on Mary Magdalene.。
And that's the same story for all of us.。
Jesus came to redeem us, to save us。
from the old order of things,。
and brought us into a new order, a new kingdom,。
the kingdom of God.。
And one of the passages that captures this message。
is found in episode one of "The Chosen."。
And that is Isaiah 43.。
Isaiah 43, verses one and two.。
It says, "But now, O Jacob,"。
and Jacob is the nickname for the people of God,。
the nation of Israel.。
"Now, O Jacob, listen to the Lord who created you.。
O Israel, the one who formed you says,。
do not be afraid, for I have ransomed you.。
I have called you by name, and you are mine."。
Isaiah 43.。
Now, one more thing you need to understand,。
because when the Bible quotes a verse。
from the Old Testament,。
people don't take verse out of context.。
They quote the entire chunk, the entire block of materials.。
And that material is the book of Isaiah, right?。
Have you read the book of Isaiah before?。
It's a huge, long book, right?。
So whenever the Bible refers to this verse, 43, one,。
it's actually referring to the huge chunk of materials。
found in the book of Isaiah.。
And you need to understand why the book of Isaiah。
was written.。
It was written for those who were under oppression.。
The Jewish people at that time, in Isaiah's time,。
100 years before Jesus, were under the Babylonian Empire.。
They were under the military oppression of Babylon.。
And these chapters, including 43,。
summarizing all the Jewish hopes that we have in God.。
The people of God were waiting.。
They were yearning for a new king to set them free,。
to rule over them.。
The new order of things they were yearning for.。
A new son of David, a new descendant of David,。
like Solomon, who established the first kingdom.。
Someone like the son of David will come。
and restore us back to God, from oppression to liberty,。
from oppression to freedom.。
And God will give us power to witness His greatness。
to the ends of the earth.。
That's what Isaiah's all about.。
I just summarized the whole book for you。
in the last 30 seconds, all right?。
And God tells the people,。
no matter how difficult your situation is,。
fear, unknowns, or challenges, I am with you.。
Because I have called you by name.。
I have called you by name.。
In the biblical culture,。
whenever you say, "I call you by name,"。
whenever they talk about naming,。
naming someone, or renaming someone,。
like Abram to Abraham, right?。
Sarai to Sarah.。
Whenever you have name changing,。
you know, naming in the biblical culture。
is not simply a label.。
It's not like among the crowd,。
"Hey, Mark, can you stand up?"。
That's just a label, right?。
That's how we modern people understand naming.。
But in biblical culture,。
naming is a totally different booking.。
Because naming in the ancient culture。
has to do with authority and belonging.。
You are being named because you belong to someone。
who named you, right?。
You remember there's a,。
you understand there's a very, very important ritual。
in the Christian journey,。
which is baptism, right?。
Baptism, you dunk someone in the water,。
and then you lift him or lift her back up, right,。
out of the water.。
And what did we say when we do that?。
We say we baptize you in the name of the Father,。
the Son, and the Holy Spirit, right?。
And what does it mean?。
Does it mean getting a license?。
Do pastors get a license to do that,。
to dunk people in the water?。
No, the formula says,。
in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,。
I baptize you.。
That means you have the name of the triune God.。
You have the name of God of Trinity.。
The name, singular,。
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,。
and that means you belong to God himself.。
When you get baptized, God's name is on your life,。
and he has authority because he is the new king.。
And according to him, there will be life change,。
and new order of things.。
So call you by name, it says Isaiah.。
Do not be afraid, I have ransom you.。
I have called you by name, and you are mine.。
You belong to me.。
No longer you belong to the oppressor,。
or your previous political power,。
or anyone that has a hold on you,。
or anything that has hold on you.。
Whether it's the shame, guilt, depression,。
all those things no longer have any hold on you。
because you don't belong to them.。
You belong to the God who ransomed you, who saved you.。
God knows you by name and call you by name。
because you are his.。
And he said, "You are mine."。
God know us, thank God, right?。
We belong to the new king, Jesus Christ,。
who died on the cross for our sin,。
to set us free from any oppressive powers,。
ultimately sin and darkness and death.。
And Jesus free us and give us this new life, right?。
And Mary Magdalene experienced it,。
and we should too, we should too.。
Now, before we close in prayer,。
we would close today's service with a communion.。
I think we have the communion elements ready.。
And by doing that,。
we proclaim to the world,。
as we protect the bread and the cup.。
Remember, this is the Passover meal。
Jesus set up for generations of Christians, right?。
The Passover story, find fulfillment in Jesus。
because Jesus is the lamb of God.。
He set us free, right?。
He set us free and we belong to him.。
And by protecting the cup and the bread,。
we know we belong to Jesus and to him alone.。
Let's do that because of grace of God,。
then we can be called the children。
of the kingdom of the light.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, as we bow our heads to pray to you,。
we know we belong to you.。
And thank you for being our king,。
being our Lord.。
You have called us by name and we are yours.。
Thank you for loving us so amazingly and so unconditionally.。
As we see the cross,。
as we see Jesus hung on the cross because of our sin,。
in order to love us and to redeem us and ransom us。
from all kinds of powers on the earth,。
sin and darkness and death,。
they no longer have any holes in our lives.。
Thank you for the change that you brought about。
in your grace.。
It's not because of what we have done,。
but because of what your son has done for all of us.。
So as we observe the communion together,。
taking the bread and the cup,。
bring us back to your table.。
Bring us back to your table of grace,。
knowing that we can partake in eternity。
because of your sheer grace.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
In Christ's name, we pray.。
