- Alright guys, let's turn to our scripture today.。
And may I invite you to go to your phone app。
or to your Bible.。
We're going to continue our series on basics, okay?。
Let's master the basics.。
There are so many basic exercise or habits。
as a question we need to master.。
So I introduced to you many weeks ago。
the verse of the week.。
And this is the verse of last week.。
Remember that?。
Alright, can we recite it together?。
Let's do it in English.。
Don't worry about anything, instead pray about everything.。
Tell God what you need and thank Him for what He has done.。
Then you will experience God's peace,。
which exceeds anything we can understand.。
His peace will guide your hearts and minds。
as we live in Christ Jesus, alright?。
So we got the Chinese translation for many of you.。
This is the verse of last week.。
And today we're going to introduce another verse.。
However, we're going to go through the passage of today.。
My sermon is taken, centered on this passage,。
this famous passage from the book of Romans.。
Romans chapter 12, verse one.。
"Therefore I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy,。
"to offer your bodies as living sacrifices,。
"holy and pleasing to God."。
This is your spiritual act of worship.。
"Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world,。
"but be transformed by the renewing of your mind,。
"and you will be able to test and approve。
"what God's will is, His good and pleasing perfect will."。
And that is the first two verses,。
and we continue, verse three.。
"For by the grace given me, I say to every one of you,。
"do not think of yourself more highly than you ought,。
"but rather think of yourself with sober judgment,。
"in accordance with the measure of faith God has given you,。
"just as each of you has one body with many members,。
"and these members do not all have the same function."。
So in Christ, we who are many form one body,。
and each member belongs to all the others.。
"We all have different gifts,。
"according to the grace given us.。
"If a man's gift is prophesying,。
"let him use it in proportion to his faith.。
"If it is serving, let him serve.。
"If it is teaching, let him teach.。
"If it is encouraging, let him encourage.。
"If it is contributing to the needs of others,。
"let him give generously.。
"If it is leadership, let him govern diligently.。
"If it is showing mercy, let him do it cheerfully."。
Now that is from the book of Romans, chapter 12.。
And that is, as I said,。
is one of the well-known passages in the Bible,。
especially in the New Testament.。
And there is some background we need to understand。
as we read this passage.。
Now, all of the Bible passages were written。
to a specific context or specific need of a congregation.。
This is not new to us,。
but as long as we get more familiar。
with the background of the Bible,。
then we understand what God is saying, right?。
Then we understand what this passage is all about.。
So some of the background.。
This letter is written by Paul, the apostle Paul,。
the pastor Paul, a missionary,。
founding churches in many cities in the Roman Empire.。
And this letter is written by him, by Paul,。
to the Romans, so-called the Romans,。
because those are the Christians。
and house churches in the city of Rome.。
And as you know, Rome was the center of Roman Empire,。
of the center of the world in Paul's day.。
And the relationship between Paul and the Roman Christians,。
the Christians, the house churches in Rome。
are somewhat interesting because Paul did not establish,。
did not plant the church in Rome.。
In fact, he had never been to Rome。
until the end of the Book of Acts.。
And when he wrote this letter to the Roman Christians,。
he had never been there.。
He said he wanted to visit Rome someday on his way to Spain.。
Well, we don't know whether Paul。
has traveled to Spain or not.。
However, he wrote this letter,。
and at that time, he did not come to Rome,。
and he never planted the church in Rome.。
But there are Christians,。
there are house churches in Rome nonetheless.。
And we don't know who brought the gospel。
to the people in Rome,。
and why there were some house churches。
being established in Rome.。
So who brought the gospel to Rome in the first place?。
Remember chapter two of Book of Acts,。
very familiar chapter, Pentecost, right?。
When the Holy Spirit descended on the apostles,。
and they began to preach the gospel,。
and Peter begins to preach to the people,。
and 3,000 people came to faith, right?。
And they were baptized by water,。
and they became Christians.。
And on the day of Pentecost,。
there were many Jews in Jerusalem.。
And the Book of Acts tells us。
there were many Jews come from other places。
of the Roman Empire.。
Some come from today's Turkey,。
some come from today's Egypt,。
some come from even Rome,。
because in Acts 2.10, it tells us。
there were some Jewish people coming from the city of Rome,。
from the capital city of Rome.。
And they were visiting Jerusalem for the festival,。
for Pentecost, and for Passover before Pentecost.。
And they just happened to be there.。
And the Holy Spirit descended upon the apostles,。
and they began to preach the gospel,。
and many of them became Christians.。
And I think surely they also came to faith,。
and they brought the gospel back to their home city in Rome.。
So I think they found the house churches in Rome.。
And in the very beginning period of the church in Rome,。
we can imagine the Jewish people。
and their Gentile Christians gathered together, right?。
So that was the picture,。
the reality of house churches in Rome.。
Again, it's by some sort of lay Christians,。
white Jewish Christians,。
they brought the gospel back to Rome,。
and they probably attract other people,。
and some of the Gentile Christians.。
And they gather together in different houses in Rome,。
and that's how house churches in Rome began.。
But, but, but in AD 49, AD 49, okay?。
So in your mind, imagine there's a timeline, okay?。
There's timeline.。
You put cross there, it's about AD 30, AD 30, all right?。
And Jesus died and rose again,。
and he ascended to heaven, right?。
And the Holy Spirit came on the day of Pentecost.。
Now, that was around AD 30.。
But in AD 49, everything changed,。
especially in the city of Rome.。
Why?。
Because at that time, Roman emperor named Claudius,。
and he issued a decree to ban all the Jews。
from the city of Rome.。
So, so Claudius, the emperor,。
kicked out all the Jewish people from the city of Rome.。
And as you can imagine,。
some of them are being kicked out of Rome。
were definitely Jewish Christians,。
and they originally belonged to the house churches in Rome,。
right?。
And actually we find that in the book of Acts, chapter 18.。
Here, the map clearly shows where Rome is, right?。
And Paul is writing the letter to the Romans from Corinth,。
right?。
And there were house churches。
mixed with Jewish and Gentile Christians in Rome,。
but AD 49,。
Claudius commanded all the Jews to leave Rome.。
And we find that in Acts 18.。
Acts 18, what happened here。
was that Paul was doing mission in different cities,。
and he came to Corinth,。
and he found a Jew there named Aquila,。
and he was a native of Pontus.。
Pontus was today's Northern Turkey.。
And this guy is called Aquila,。
and he was a Jew,。
and Paul met him because he come from Italy。
with his wife Priscilla.。
So this couple was being kicked out of Rome,。
and they were in Corinth,。
and they met Paul,。
and Paul preached to them.。
And Acts 18 explains,。
because Claudius, the emperor,。
had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome, okay?。
So that's pretty interesting, AD 49, right?。
Remember, the house churches in Rome。
were mixed with Jewish and Gentile Christians, right?。
They were all calling the name of Jesus,。
and they worshiped together.。
But AD 49, after Claudius kicked out all the Jews。
out of Rome,。
overnight, the church in Rome。
became virtually 100% Gentile.。
Right, it's not hard to imagine, right?。
Kick out some of the Jews,。
and then what you left in the house churches in Rome。
were Gentiles.。
And the Gentile Christians, naturally,。
would take over the leadership of the church.。
And so they were minority,。
and now the Jews are being kicked out.。
The Jewish Christians left the city.。
They became the majority.。
And by the time Paul writes from Corinth,。
writing the letter of Rome,。
it was about AD 57, eight years later,。
and some of the Jews were allowed。
to go back to their home city, Rome.。
But when the Jewish people came back to the church,。
and they find that the church was dominant by Gentiles,。
right, now before AD 49,。
the Jewish Christians were the majority.。
After AD 49, they became the minority.。
And you can imagine the tension,。
the social tension, or the leadership tension。
created by such a situation.。
And by and large,。
Paul is writing the letter to Romans。
to address some of the problems or tensions。
that happened in the church.。
You got that?。
All right, it's very easy, right?。
Now, you wanna do a pop quiz?。
All right, so remember, AD 49 is the watershed。
for the house churches in Rome.。
And all of a sudden, the Gentiles became。
the dominant people, and they take over the leadership,。
and they despise the Jews who came back.。
And Paul is writing this letter。
to address some of the issues。
or some of the tensions and debates inside the church.。
There are two points we can find in this passage.。
So the letter to the Romans。
is the longest letter in the New Testament,。
the longest letter.。
And Paul used the first 11 chapters to explain,。
to emphasize that Jesus came to save Jews and Gentiles alike.。
At the foot of the cross, the ground is level,。
and all have sinned, Paul said, chapter three.。
Everyone falls short of the glory of God.。
But in chapter 10, Paul proclaims,。
everyone who calls on the name of Jesus will be saved,。
whether you're a Jew or you're a Gentile,。
because the ground at the foot of the cross is level,。
and that is the mercy of God, right?。
We never deserve the grace of God, right?。
Only because what Jesus has done for us,。
and that is the mercy of God.。
And in Christ, Paul reminds us,。
we are one new people now, right?。
Now, you may center your identity on your ethnicity.。
I am a Jew, I am a Gentile, right?。
I am from a certain ethnic group.。
But Paul is saying, when you come to the cross,。
when you receive the mercy of God,。
undeserved, and in Christ, we are now one people,。
and we have the new identity in Jesus Christ.。
And that is the most important identity.。
And that's why the church is the new people of God.。
And we come to chapter 12 of the book of Romans.。
Paul is saying, I urge you, brothers,。
in view of God's mercy, right?。
Now, you have heard me explain for 11 chapters。
of the mercy of God on Jews and Gentiles alike.。
And Paul is saying, chapter 12 verse one.。
Therefore, I urge you, brothers, right?。
Or brothers and sisters, siblings.。
You know, this is one of Paul's most favorite term。
to describe Christian relationship.。
He could have used the temple,。
he could have used the people,。
but the most favorite term Paul uses。
to describe our relationship as Christians。
is siblings, brothers and sisters in Christ.。
And so often, we see each other。
based on our common background, right?。
Common language, race, or interest.。
And sometimes we fail to see each other in the church。
on the sole basis of God's mercy and grace, right?。
We come here, we call each other。
sisters and brothers in Christ。
because God has done something in your life, in my life.。
God has created something new.。
And look around, right?。
This is something new, this is something unheard of,。
or you have never thought about,。
that God is putting you and me together。
in this new society, right?。
New people.。
He created a new society of siblings,。
our people from all walks of life, right?。
We're so different, we're so distinct, right?。
But God is calling everyone in Christ,。
Jews and Gentiles, right?。
All kinds of people, East and West, right?。
Coming together to be a people, right?。
I have been to different churches.。
I've always been amazed by, you know,。
how the people are so different,。
but God put us together, right?。
I'm so thankful I'm not the only guy there,。
and no one looks like me, right?。
Everyone looks different, right?。
Everyone comes from a different walks of life,。
so that is the mercy of God.。
And Paul continues to tell us,。
because of the mercy of God that we receive。
as brother and sister, we need to offer your bodies。
as living sacrifices to God.。
And Paul, I think he has in mind。
a different and new sacrifice, right?。
A living sacrifice, right?。
All the sacrifices are dead, right?。
Dead animals.。
And Paul is saying, as we come together,。
as we receive the mercy of God,。
it is not offering animals anymore.。
We offer ourselves, right?。
And we offer ourselves as living beings,。
living bodies, how we live and how we think,。
how we speak, how we act, how we relate to each other.。
It's like a sacrifice to God, right?。
How we build our family, how we guide our children,。
how we serve, how we participate in fellowship and worship。
is also a sacrifice.。
It's like a worship to God, right?。
And here the English says spiritual act of worship.。
I think a better translation is a reasonable,。
reasonable act of worship.。
Or even a better translation is gospel field.。
Gospel shaped act of worship.。
We come here and it's not because it's convenient to come.。
We come here because of Jesus Christ, right?。
And he continues to say, do not conform any longer。
to the pattern of this world.。
The way of life in this world。
means the way of life in the Roman empire, right?。
The Roman way is I dominate you, right?。
I have power, you have no power.。
So the powerful is ruling the powerless.。
The strong is ruling against the weak, right?。
And I think this phrase, do not conform any longer。
to the pattern of this world,。
I think the best paraphrase is from a very,。
is from an older English paraphrase Bible called J.B. Phillips.。
So J.B. Phillips was a pastor and translator of the Bible。
and he translated New Testament in contemporary English.。
He translated this phrase, do not conform any longer。
to the pattern of this world as, listen up,。
do not let this world around you squeeze you。
into its own mold, but let God remove your mind from within.。
J.B. Phillips, yeah, pretty good, right?。
Do not let this world squeeze you into its own mold, right?。
Do not let the pattern of the world,。
the Roman way or the secular way to mold you.。
Don't let it squeeze into the worldly mold,。
but let God shapes your mind and mold your mind from within.。
There's constant pressure in this world to shape us,。
to squeeze us, to be like the world.。
But as Christians, as we receive the mercy of God,。
the true way of life is conforming to Jesus Christ himself.。
So point number one, I have it is we,。
each and every one of us together,。
we are living sacrifice to God.。
We are worship.。
We are like an act of worship,。
not only by singing in the first 15 minutes, right?。
We sing, how many songs do we sing today?。
Three, right?。
Three.。
We sing the songs and we follow the PowerPoint.。
It's not just that.。
Worship is not just that.。
Worship is our whole being.。
We live together.。
We act together as a pleasing sacrifice,。
as a pleasing worship to God.。
And let the word of grace shape us。
instead of the words from the world, right?。
That's the two verses in the beginning.。
And three to eight, Paul reminds the church,。
reminds us who we are and what we are to do.。
Basically, he said, we are the body of Christ.。
We are the new body of Christ.。
So he said, "By the grace given to me,。
"I say to every one of you,。
"do not think yourself more highly than you are,。
"but rather think of yourself with sober judgment。
"in accordance to the measure of faith God has given you."。
So God has given us different levels of faith,。
different levels of maturity, different levels of abilities.。
Verse four, "Just as each of us has one body。
"with many members,。
"these members do not have the same function."。
And the analogy goes that in Christ now,。
we form one body and each member belongs to all the others.。
That's a wonderful verse, right?。
In the body of Christ,。
our relationship to each other has changed.。
It's defined by God,。
none other than God.。
And God defined our relationship with each other.。
And God has given us different measures of faith gifts,。
right, some special abilities,。
some special calling to all of us,。
whether we are Jew or Gentiles,。
whether you are high up in the social status。
or low in the social status,。
with status or without status.。
Christ has redefined our relationship.。
To the Romans, to the first audience of this letter,。
body, when they say body,。
it was a political term。
because politicians in the Roman Empire。
and in the Greek world,。
they like to use the analogy of body。
to describe the citizens of the city。
or citizens in the empire.。
You belong to body, to one body,。
the politician would say.。
That's why you need to be united。
and you have to vote for me, right?。
You have to support me.。
That's how the Roman politicians would say。
when they use the term body.。
They're talking about political unit,。
body of citizens.。
To the Romans, as I said,。
the rulers were dominant over the ruled.。
The slaves need to obey the leaders.。
The men are above, on top of women, over the slaves.。
And that will be peace.。
To the Romans, this is Roman peace.。
But Paul is using the same term in a subversive way.。
He's using the same term, body,。
and to tell us, hey, in here,。
in this new community, this new society,。
relationship is defined and configured differently.。
Verse four, he says,。
"One body with many members and different functions.。
"Each member of the church,。
"each member here is gifted in some way."。
Aren't you amazed, you know,。
some people are gifted in very different ways, right?。
You may be gifted in cooking, right?。
I'm certainly not gifted, right?。
I'm certainly not gifted.。
Before, my son is spending the summer here,。
and because of him, we have good food.。
You know why?。
Because I approach food in a very practical way, right?。
I don't care whether it tastes good or not, right?。
As long as it fills my stomach,。
and I continue to work, right?。
I approach food, it's a very, very, very。
despising way to him, right?。
But he makes good food,。
and he's so gifted in that way, right?。
And some of people are gifted in leading,。
and some of us are gifted in teaching.。
Some of us are gifted in caring.。
And many different abilities, many different gifts。
that the Bible says has different function, right?。
And the word function, in verse four,。
you see that these members do not all have the same function.。
The Greek, the original Greek term is praxis.。
Praxis, that's how we get the English word practice, right?。
So Paul is saying members do not all have the same praxis,。
do not all have the same practical function.。
And this word is telling us。
not only we receive some spiritual gifts,。
we have to use them.。
Spiritual gifts or spiritual abilities。
are not to be owned or possessed by the individuals.。
Each one of us needs to discover our spiritual gift.。
We discover our spiritual gifts,。
and we need to develop,。
we need to grow our spiritual gifts。
and use them in praxis, in practice,。
to use it for the good of the church,。
for the good of others.。
No one, no one, no question in the church is an audience.。
Every one of us is performing something.。
Every one of us is doing something。
and performing our practical function.。
And that's what Paul meant when he continues to say,。
"We have different gifts," verse six,。
"according to the grace given to us."。
A man may be gifted in prophesying, right?。
Now again, let me remind you,。
prophesying in the Bible, in biblical terms,。
is not predicting whether it will rain tomorrow。
at 3.30 p.m.。
It's not predicting.。
Prophesying is proclaiming the word of God,。
the authoritative word of God.。
That's what the prophets did in the Old Testament.。
And that's what people who are gifted。
in prophesying will do.。
They would preach according to scripture。
and let him use it in proportion of his faith.。
Verse seven, "If you're gifted to serve, let him serve."。
By the way, this church is so blessed。
to have many people who are gifted in serving.。
You know what it means?。
You know what it looks like?。
People always work in the background, right?。
Putting things together, setting things up, right?。
And they don't talk, right?。
But they use their hands and feet to serve the church.。
If it is serving, if it is the spiritual gift of serving,。
let him serve or let her serve.。
If it is teaching, let him teach.。
If it's encouraging, let him encourage.。
Contributing, let him give generously.。
If it's leading, let him lead diligently.。
Showing mercy, let him do so cheerfully.。
And that is the beautiful picture of the church.。
And, you know, Olympic Games has been showing on TV, right?。
I hope you have been watching the Olympic Games, right?。
Yeah, you just can't help it.。
You have to watch it, right?。
Yeah, it's 'cause you're bombarded by, you know,。
different games and replay, right?。
And I spent some time watching the Olympic Games,。
and I'm just amazed how people get gifted so differently,。
right?。
Some are great swimmers, right?。
You can't tell them to climb, right?。
They are created, they're made, they're gifted to swim, right?。
Some are good at track and field.。
Some are good at gymnastics, right?。
You can't tell them to do something else, right?。
And that is the picture Paul is trying to paint to us.。
'Cause he says, in Christ, we are a new people,。
and we are gifted in many different ways.。
And you and I are called to build up the body of Christ,。
the church.。
Use our gifts, right?。
You have to find your own gift.。
And you discover your own gift, praise God, right?。
That does not mean you don't need to do your lessons.。
You still need to improve, you still need to develop, right?。
You still need to use them.。
I remember in the early years of my Christian walk,。
I started to discover the gift of teaching, right?。
Because, you know, that's one of my passions, right?。
I like to study the Bible, I like to know more about God.。
And I wanna tell other people, right?。
I remember the early years, I stumbled.。
I stumbled a lot, because I don't know how to put。
the information or the materials together in a helpful way,。
to help the church, to help our fellowship,。
to help our brothers and sisters, right?。
And it took me some time to practice it.。
It took me some time to take the opportunity,。
seize the opportunity to help other people.。
And that's what I'm saying, discover your gifts。
and develop them and deploy them and to use them, right?。
Paul is saying to us, we are a new people of Christ.。
We are gifted in many different ways.。
Let's build up the body of Christ, right?。
If you find that you are not gifted,。
you need to tell yourself, that's not true.。
You are always gifted in some ways, right?。
Our church is blessed by many people。
who thought they are not gifted,。
but what they do, what they practice is so important to us.。
And that is praying for the church, right?。
There are some elderly members in our community,。
they faithfully pray for us.。
They faithfully uplift the church。
and pray and support the church, right?。
You have the gift and you have to use it.。
You have to use a gift to build up the body of Christ.。
That brings us to the verse of the week.。
And let me conclude with this verses。
taken from the Book of Romans 12, verses four and five.。
Why don't we read this verses together, right?。
Just as each of us has one body with many members。
and these members do not all have the same function.。
So in Christ, we who are many form one body。
and each member belongs to all the others.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we wanna give you thanks。
for each and every one of us here.。
Yes, we come from different walks of life。
and we speak different languages,。
we have different interests and we have different passions.。
And yet in Christ, we are one body.。
And yet in Christ, in the mercy of God,。
we belong to this new family.。
We can call each other siblings,。
siblings in Christ, sisters and brothers in Christ.。
What an amazing reality that we can live in.。
Thank you for the brother and sister in this room,。
for the siblings in this church,。
that we are being called into this community,。
this family to be one, to be one body.。
And God, we just pray that you will help us。
to break down all the walls that separate each one of us。
and help us to be united, united in Christ Jesus.。
And thank you for the gifts you have given to us.。
Help us use them for the benefit of others,。
to pray for the church, to build up the church,。
to serve other people.。
Thank you for this new identity。
and may this new identity continue to remind us。
that we belong to the body of Christ.。
What a glorious truth.。
And we can use our gifts to serve,。
use our gifts to worship.。
Again, we wanna give you thanks and praises。
in Christ and pray.。
Well, may God's peace be each and every one of you。
and I wanna see you next week, 11.30。
and let's continue to worship God.。
God bless.。
(gentle music)。
