[ Foreign Language ]。
>> All right.。
So today is the Lunar New Year Day, and it's the year of horse, right?。
>> Horse.。
>> Horse. And if you were born in the year of '26, you're most likely a horse.。
If you were born in 1918, most likely you're a horse.。
And maybe '14 or '02 or '90, '78, '66, or '54 and '42 and '30 and 1918, you are probably horses, okay?。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And how many of you are horses?。
Any? Oh, you are.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Okay. So Kelly, you were born in 2026?。
[ Laughter ]。
How many of you are horses?。
How many? Just one?。
>> Only one.。
>> All right.。
So yeah, congratulations.。
That's your year, Kelly, all right?。
So, no. When you think of horses, you know, you probably think。
of speed and drive and success, right?。
And of course, in the new year, especially Chinese New Year, we all hope for some prosperity,。
some breakthroughs, and everything will go well and smoothly for us.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
I've got to tell you, two days ago, I went to a church to attend their, you know,。
kind of a new year, a little gathering.。
You know, they got some games for New Year, and there was one of the tables,。
you're invited to write some banners in Chinese on the red paper.。
And, you know, one of them is, you know, [Foreign Language]。
And then, I was invited to do something like that.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And then, this is some of the stuff that I wrote.。
So, on the right is, can you see that?。
[ Foreign Language ]。
On the left is, if you know how to translate it, is you get rich, you know, quickly.。
Yeah.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And then, one of the brothers, you know, kind of gave me a nickname, because [Foreign Language]。
you know, sounds like Mark Sir.。
[ Laughter ]。
So, he said, [Foreign Language]。
Okay, so.。
>> Yeah, everybody.。
>> Yeah, in any case, when you see words like this, and you know, something like this,。
in the new year, we often think of prosperity.。
And, in Chinese culture, horses, of course, often symbolize energy, speed, and success.。
And, we do want to have prosperity in the new year, smooth process.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, I want to turn to a passage today that mentions horse in the Bible.。
And, that is the book of Revelation.。
And, it asks a different question.。
You know, the book of Revelation, we view a horse and ask a different question.。
It's not just how fast you get rich, or how fast you're running.。
It is a different question.。
It's who you are following, and where is that horse taking you.。
And, that is a totally different question we ask.。
You know, if the direction is wrong, the faster you go, the more dangerous you get.。
Right?。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, you know, the book of Revelation is the last book of the Bible.。
Right?。
It's the last book of the Bible.。
And, the book of Revelation is not written for our, you know, curiosity.。
Sometimes we turn to the book of Revelation, we find, probably feel like, oh, there, it's。
newspaper written long time ago, written to us.。
No, it's not like that.。
You know, book of Revelation is not for us to foretelling the future.。
It is written to strengthen the church back then, because the church was under pressure.。
It was under the pressure of the Roman Empire.。
And, the Roman Empire demanded their allegiance and loyalty.。
And, they got so much pressure being Christians.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Now, the book of Revelation has its own context.。
In the first century, in the first century, almost 2,000 years ago, the Roman Empire was。
the most powerful and wealthy empire in the world.。
And, it was skilled with shaping people's imagination and using different methods.。
And, the Roman Empire claimed that it brings peace and prosperity and order to all the people.。
And, many cities practiced something what we call imperial cult, emperor worship.。
And, in different main cities, you know, like Chicago, like New York, they will have temple。
that would dedicate to the emperor.。
And, people would go there to worship and to honor Caesar as their lord.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, if you hear the message, you kind of hear the message being sent by today's empires, right?。
Either it is any empire, any country in the world.。
And, if you refuse to bow down to worship the emperor, the king, then you will take。
risk of losing business or social standing or any protection.。
And, Revelation is speaking into that kind of world and try to open up the curtain to。
reveal what is truly having power, who is really sitting on the throne.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
So, we're going to read this passage that mentions the horse.。
But, you know, the main message you have to remember is that the main message of Revelation。
is not to predict or foretell the future.。
It used some sort of different kinds of writing, what we call apocalyptic literature.。
It's a literary form, some sort of writing that is familiar to the Jews of the time in。
the ancient time.。
And, it used those kind of language and imageries to proclaim the truth with some vivid imageries.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
So, it's telling you the one who truly rules over everything is not the Roman Empire, not。
the greatest power of the day, not the Roman emperor on the throne who claimed to be divine,。
who claimed to be God, and to claim that he is the king of kings.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, the one who is truly ruling over everything is Jesus Christ who died and rose again.。
And, Chapter 19 of Revelation here is where the whole book of Revelation is trying to bring to a conclusion.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
So, we're going to read verse by verse in English and in Chinese.。
Verse 19, 11, "I saw heaven standing open, and there before me was a white horse whose。
rider is called Faithful and True.。
With justice, he judges and makes war."。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Verse 12, "His eyes are like blazing fire, and on his head are many crowns.。
He has a name written on him that no one knows but he himself."。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, then verse 13 continues, "He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood, and his name is。
the Word of God."。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, the armies of heaven were following him riding on white horses and dressed in fine。
linen, white and clean.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, out of his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations.。
He will rule them with an iron scepter.。
He treads the winepress of the Faerie of the Wrath of God Almighty.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, on his robe and on his thigh, he has this name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Now, this passage that mentions horse, actually is like the book of Revelation.。
It's trying to reveal something to us.。
And, first of all, it reveals who the true king is.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Now, when the people of the Roman Empire see horses, they can imagine, or the only thing。
they can imagine is Rome.。
Roman Empire had all the power and all the horses, all the armies to build an empire.。
But, Revelation 19 tried to reverse it and show us the white horse with a different rider。
on the horse.。
And, his name is a totally different name.。
It's called Faithful and True.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Now, in the Roman culture, white horses were symbols of victory.。
And, the military generals, they would, you know, beat up somebody and then conquer some。
places, some people.。
And, they would celebrate and come back to the city with triumphs, with parades and propaganda.。
And, people, the Roman Empire want people to feel, to see that the king, the Caesar,。
the Roman emperor was unbeatable.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And then, Revelation uses, you know, similar familiar images and to overturn them.。
And, it says the true victorious rider is none but Jesus.。
It is not Caesar.。
The true rider is Jesus Christ himself.。
And, his greatest identity is not power but true and faithfulness.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Now, this matters to us today.。
Because, in New Year, in Chinese New Year, the go-to phrase for us is always prosperity,。
right?。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Okay.。
We like money, you know.。
Money is our God.。
Money is our horse, right?。
When we want to follow those horses and we want promises of success, you know, we want。
money.。
We want status.。
We want our career.。
We want comfort.。
We want control.。
And, you know, these horses run really fast.。
And, but, you know, in reality, the Bible says they do not keep their promises.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And, Jesus is different because he is faithful.。
He is true.。
He is justice.。
And, this New Year, do not only ask, please do not only ask what I will achieve, either。
success or status or stay in America or whatever.。
Ask different questions.。
The Bible challenges you to ask different questions.。
Who can I trust with my life?。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And then the second point here is to tell us that to follow the true King.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
But Rome demand that people bow to Caesar, bow to the Roman Emperor.。
And Revelation 19 challenges us to tell us Jesus is the true King and he wears many crowns。
because every other authority is tiny and small compared to the authority of Jesus.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And not only he has many crowns and all the crowns of the world,。
Revelation also tells us he is wearing something different.。
He is wearing a robe dipped in blood.。
Now, to the Roman culture, that is a military general, right?。
Shed the blood of innocence and come back as victory.。
But this tells us Jesus is a totally different King and Jesus does not conquer by becoming evil.。
Jesus conquers through sacrifice himself.。
He died on the cross and rose from the dead and he defeat evil with justice and righteousness.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And there's also sharp sword coming out of his mouth and his weapon is not tanks and guns.。
You know, it's not knives or any weapons of the world.。
His weapon is the word, the gospel, the gospel of Jesus Christ, the gospel of love and peace.。
And Rome conquered by violence and fear but Jesus conquers in a different manner,。
by truth, by his witness and by his holy judgment.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And this is why the final title for this horse rider, white horse rider is so important。
because it tells you he is truly the King of kings and Lord of lords.。
And it means your Lord, you know, your leader of your life.。
It's not your success, it's not your job, it's not your money and it's not your anxiety.。
It's not your family either.。
Success is not your Lord and Jesus is the only true King and true Lord.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
In every generation, there is always an empire trying to shape us and conform us into bowing down to the empire, to the power.。
And for many, you know, in our culture, in our Asian-Chinese culture, you know,。
the pressure sometimes is very, very strong and sometimes invisible, right?。
It could be, you know, saving your face.。
It could be comparison.。
It could be achievement of all kinds, including your children, financial security or social expectation.。
And revelation asks a different question.。
Who will you bow down to?。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Now, so in this new year, of course, you know, many people would desire success.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And revelation, the Bible, offers all of us something totally different and something much better, indeed the best.。
It's not success that's driving your life, but a Savior that died for you and loved you, accepted you.。
And His name is faithful and true.。
And His victory is already guaranteed.。
He is going to come back.。
His victory is final.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
So, brothers and sisters, the most important new year decision is not your pace.。
It's not how fast you go.。
It is your allegiance.。
It is your allegiance.。
So, the Bible challenges to step off the horses that cannot save you.。
Put your year into the hands of the white horse rider, King of Kings, Jesus Christ.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
And this is what we do when we pray in conclusion.。
Let's pray together and we're going to commit ourselves once again to worship the true King of Kings and Lord of Lords.。
Let's all pray together.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
Lord Jesus, you are faithful and true.。
And you are the King of Kings.。
In this new year, forgive us for bowing to false lords of all kinds.。
Lead our life and lead our families, our work, and our church.。
And give us the courage to follow you and the peace to trust in you.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
We have a dumpling party, right?。
Yeah, and then we'll go out and enjoy fellowship together.。
[ Foreign Language ]。
God bless you.。
