And here is it, let's welcome Pastor Mark for today's sermon.。
Hey, good morning guys.。
I had a really good Thanksgiving week and we ate a lot in Toronto.。
We spent five, six days, right?。
From Monday to Saturday.。
Right, how many days?。
And we ate a lot of good food and we spent a great time there.。
Nine of us went there.。
So we did a lot of shopping.。
I started to think in the third day or fourth day,。
I started to think my main job is actually just driving and paying,。
using my credit card to pay all the good stuff, right?。
So, you know, it just got so good, right?。
So Thanksgiving is just over and it's a holiday。
or it's a time of the year to remind us God has been good to all of us,。
you and me, and we need to give thanks, right?。
There are some calendar markers along the year to remind us。
what God is doing in your life。
and when to respond positively to God's good work.。
And today we continue this series to talk about the festivals,。
the special days in the Bible.。
And we talk about Passover, we talk about Sukkot,。
now we talk about Pentecost, what we call Shofoot.。
Shofoot simply means weeks in plural, so many weeks.。
So in the Old Testament calendar, it's seven weeks,。
seven Sundays after the Passover.。
So it's the 50th day is the day of Shofoot, the day of Pentecost.。
That's why we call it Pentecost in Greek, 50, right?。
It's a day that is special in the sense that there is nothing。
related to God's miracles in the history of His people in Israel.。
We talk about Sukkot, right?。
Tabernacles, it has to do with God's miracle works。
in the wilderness, right?。
God is guiding His people out of Egypt and through the great。
and fearful wilderness for 40 years and giving them manna, right?。
Giving them food and water, miracle works, you know, for 40 years.。
That's why they celebrate Sukkot and they make temporary shelters。
and they live in it for a week to remember what God has done。
in their history, in their lives.。
And then the second example I give you is that most of the。
biblical calendar, most of the biblical festivals have to do。
with God's miraculous work in the lives of the people.。
And Sukkot is one of them, Tabernacle is one of them,。
and Purim is another one.。
Purim, if you remember, is a holiday that is set aside。
by the end of the book of Esther, right?。
When the Jews were separated or scattered across the Persian Empire,。
they were persecuted and God, you know, saved them and rescued them, right?。
And then the third one is mentioned in the Gospel of John,。
chapter 10, is called Hanukkah, right?。
Hanukkah is around the time of Christmas.。
Sometimes we call it Festival of Lights.。
It has to do with the Jewish people in the year of 160-something BC。
when they fought against the Greek Empire who persecuted them,。
oppressed them, and they won.。
They won the battle and they gained their political independence.。
That's why they cleansed the temple and they rededicated the temple.。
They call it Hanukkah, right?。
The fourth festival we talk about is the Passover.。
Passover, it has to do with Exodus, right?。
The 10 plagues, God defeated the oppressor Pharaoh。
and saved his people out of Egypt.。
Now, all these examples have to do with God's great works.。
You know, he has done some signs and wonders to save his people.。
But Pentecost almost has nothing to do with miraculous work of God.。
Now, let's take a look at this verse from Leviticus 23.。
It says, "From the day after Sabbath,"。
now, the previous context was talking about Passover, Passover.。
"When Passover is done, from the day after the Shabbat,。
count off seven full weeks and then keep counting until the day after Sabbath,。
which is 50 days later.。
Then present your grain offering to the Lord,。
whatever your harvest is, your first fruit, you present to God in the temple."。
So, it has no miracles.。
It has to do with farming, harvest, you know, agricultural festival.。
50 days after the Passover, the Pentecost,。
they bring in the wheat harvest and being reminded God is the provider.。
God is faithful.。
Now, as I said, there's nothing to do with the saving works of God.。
No exodus, no wilderness, no miracles in the Bible, but they celebrate it.。
Now, between the Old Testament and the New Testament,。
there are about a few hundred years in between.。
We call it intertestamental period.。
After the Old Testament, before Christ came in the New Testament,。
there were about a few hundred years.。
The Jewish people in the land of Palestine,。
they would merge some of the dates of festival together.。
So, in between the Old Testament and New Testament,。
the Jewish people would take the day of Pentecost to Sheffield。
as remembrance of God's giving the law to His people.。
Now, it's about the same time, right?。
Because if you remember the people of Israel,。
they came out of Egypt at the twilight of Passover,。
and then exactly two months later, they arrived at Mount Sinai,。
and God gave them the law, right?。
Part of the law is Ten Commandments.。
So, it's two months after Exodus, they came to Mount Sinai,。
they received the law, right? They became a covenant people.。
They became people of the law.。
And then the Sheffield O is 50 days after Passover,。
so they kind of merged that, right? It's around the same time.。
So, they would use this time to remember God giving them the law,。
the revelation.。
That's why in Pentecost, in between the Old Testament and New Testament,。
they sometimes call it Pentecost, but also called the Festival of Revelation.。
God is giving them the law, His regulations, His will to His people.。
So, it makes sense around this time they merged these things together.。
But there's one note we need to make.。
What is the law? What is the Torah?。
Now, this becomes problematic for us,。
because in modern translations, usually we translate the word Torah,。
which is Hebrew, into law or regulations in English, right?。
Or, you know, in some other modern translations.。
You get the sense that law has nothing to do with relationship, right?。
You see a stop sign, you ran a stop sign, right?。
And then you got pulled over.。
There's nothing relational about it, right?。
The police officer will give you a ticket, right?。
Or it hurts your wallet, right?。
You got fined, but there's no relational dynamics involved, right?。
You just violate some regulations.。
You see the speed limit, 55 miles per hour.。
You know, you went over it, and too bad if you got pulled over.。
You know, it hurts financially, but there's nothing relational about it.。
But in the Bible, Torah is not impersonal.。
It is relational.。
It has everything to do with your relationship with God, right?。
A few weeks ago, I was in Kansas City, and I was taking one of the seminars.。
So we were talking about how we should translate the word Torah,。
because definitely it does not mean the modern sense of law.。
How do you translate Torah?。
I think one of the examples given by the instructors, the professors,。
is really appropriate.。
He says, you know, Torah in the Bible, law and regulations in the Bible,。
is like how, you know, if you're a parent, you tell a child,。
"Don't touch the stove," all right?。
"Don't touch the stove."。
You know, one-year-old, two-year-old, "Don't mess with the stove," right?。
Now, this is like the law, right?。
For a two-year-old, that makes sense, right?。
You don't touch it.。
But when the child grows up, if it's simply,。
"Remember, just stay away from the stove," for the rest of his life,。
I think he obviously does not understand what it means.。
When the parents tell the child, "Do not touch the stove,"。
what does it really mean?。
It means use the stove properly, right?。
So when the child goes up, when the boy goes up,。
he knows how to cook, right?。
He will approach the stove and cook a good meal, right?。
That's what it means.。
That's the essence of don't touch the stove, right?。
So as you grow up, you understand, you know, so-called the Torah.。
Actually, you have to interpret it and apply it with wisdom.。
As you grow up, you need to understand this is the essence of the law.。
Now, think about Ten Commandments.。
Ten Commandments.。
I'll give you examples.。
"Thou shalt not murder," right?。
Well, what does it mean?。
Does it mean, "Okay, I just don't kill anyone," right?。
"I don't murder anyone, so I'm fulfilling the law," right?。
No. No.。
That's not what it means。
because it means to nurture a life-giving society,。
a life-giving culture.。
That's why in other regulations,。
when they unpack what it means "Thou shalt not murder,"。
they will say you have to protect, you know, the innocents.。
You have to protect other people who are weaker than you。
because God loves every life, every human being.。
"Thou shalt not commit adultery."。
What does it really mean?。
You cannot imagine a husband going home every night and say,。
"You know, I did not commit any extramarital affair.。
I love you," right?。
No. That's not what it means.。
It means culturing or nurturing a good relationship,。
a good family, a good marital relationship, right?。
That is what the commandment means.。
It's relational.。
"Thou shalt not steal."。
That does not mean, okay, I don't take anyone else's goods。
or I don't take their stuff.。
No, it means to promote generosity.。
What I have is not just fulfilling my needs and my wants.。
I will give. I will give back to God。
because God is giving you abundantly.。
That's why you make your offering.。
That's why you want to use your resources to bless other people.。
That goes beyond just calculating, okay,。
"Oh, it has an offering, you know, 10% and all that stuff."。
You know, that simply means that we do not understand the Torah.。
Just like the example, "Don't touch the stove."。
So if you think about the Torah,。
you think about the law of God given at the time of Pentecost.。
You understand there is something we need to, you know,。
interpret and we need to understand, right?。
It's relational and there is some essence you need to understand.。
That's why today in Jewish synagogues,。
during the festival of weeks, the Pentecost,。
they will read two passages from the Bible.。
Now, one of them, of course, is what I have already explained,。
is 10 Commandments.。
They will read this portion of Scripture。
to remember God has revealed Himself.。
God has revealed His character by His law.。
That's why as the people of God, we need to follow。
and to understand and apply the law of God in their lives。
to live out the life of God.。
That's why they recite the 10 Commandments in the synagogues.。
And another passage they will recite during this festival,。
festival of Pentecost or Shavuot,。
they will recite the Book of Ruth.。
The Book of Ruth.。
And why?。
If you remember the story of the Book of Ruth,。
it was the time of judges。
when the Israelite society was in chaos.。
And Ruth was a Moabite.。
And she left her own country。
and confessed faith in the true God Yahweh.。
And she lived in the land of Israel.。
And she was poor, right, with her mother-in-law.。
They went through a lot of difficulties。
trying to settle down in a foreign land,。
in the land of Palestine.。
Now, what does it have to do with Pentecost or Shavuot。
or, you know, the time of harvest?。
Well, it happened that in Chapter 2,。
Ruth the girl met her future husband, Boaz,。
in the time of Shavuot, in the time of harvest.。
Chapter 2, "One day Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi,"。
her mother-in-law, "Let me go out to the field,。
the harvest field, right, that people are harvesting, right?"。
This is the time of Pentecost. This is the time of Shavuot.。
"Let me pick up the stocks of grain。
left behind to anyone, anyone who is poor,。
and is kind enough to let me do it."。
So she went. And Naomi said, "Yeah, go ahead."。
And as it happened, by chance, by God's providence,。
she found herself working in the field that belonged to Boaz,。
the relatives of her father-in-law.。
So it just happened she ended up in the field of Boaz。
in the time of harvest, in the time of Pentecost.。
So the book, Ruth, the story of Ruth,。
is actually a harvest story, kind of in late spring,。
you know, in our calendar, May or April,。
for a foreigner to be able to settle down。
because of Boaz's generosity.。
He is good to her and to her family.。
He's generous enough to let her pick up the crops。
so she can live, she can flourish.。
That is why the Jewish synagogues will recite the book Ruth。
in times of the festival of weeks,。
festival of Pentecost,。
because one of the most important themes in this season,。
in the festival, is how to practice generosity.。
Remember, that's about the time。
the people of Israel had their harvest.。
They got their paychecks.。
It is right at this time they remember a story like this,。
to be generous because God is generous,。
to be good to others,。
to be kind to others.。
Now I told you I spent a week in Toronto, right?。
Now people ask me, "What did you do in Toronto?"。
It's the same thing, right?。
Typical stuff, right?。
We just eat, eat, eat, and eat, right?。
And then shop, and shop, and shop, right?。
I spent some time with some of the friends.。
Some of them I've known for years, for years.。
I met this--I had dinner with one of my friends from Hong Kong.。
I haven't seen him for almost 30 years, almost 30 years.。
So he just moved with his family from Hong Kong,。
moved to Toronto.。
He got a job there.。
And you probably know some of the politics of today, right?。
Canada has this lifeboat programs,。
you know, for people from Hong Kong.。
They kind of like a refugee status。
because of the political change or political hardship in Hong Kong.。
So this friend of mine is part of that wave of immigrants,。
wave of people that left Hong Kong.。
They went to Toronto a couple months ago。
and tried to settle down, you know.。
Now, so often, we visitors, we are travelers,。
you know, especially we are holding U.S. dollars.。
We go in Toronto, "Wow, everything is so cheap.。
Everything is so cheap."。
Every meal is like, "Dude, I can eat 10 meals here.。
I'm using U.S. dollars because U.S. dollars is so strong, right?"。
And we go buy stuff, right?。
We go to the shopping mall or the outlet.。
"Wow, everything is so cheap.。
Oh, man, this is such a great trip," right?。
But you talk to the locals, you hear their stories.。
It's the other side of the coin.。
They had difficulties.。
With all the inflation after COVID,。
with all the financial hardship they are going through, you know,。
I think as we spend good time in Toronto,。
spend good time as a traveler, as a tourist,。
I think we need to open our ears at least to know some stories, right?。
To listen to their stories.。
Can you imagine someone who has been his whole life in Hong Kong。
and he and his family has to be re-rooted in a foreign land, right?。
It's a tough life, you know?。
You use U.S. dollars in Toronto, it's a good deal, right?。
But for those who earn money, try to settle down there,。
it's a totally different story, right?。
It's kind of like a story of Ruth, right?。
You know, I was talking to a couple who just spent a couple weeks in Hong Kong。
after the service, the previous service.。
They were talking to me.。
They spent two weeks in Hong Kong.。
They said the whole society has changed.。
It's not the one they used to know.。
They told me they stayed in an area near a university in Hong Kong。
and they go to the subway every day, right?。
And the police officers were picking on all the college students,。
all the young people, for no reason.。
They said everything has changed because of politics, right?。
Think about people like this.。
They have to leave.。
It's not because it's a better life out there.。
They got to go, right, for the kids or for the family or whatever reason.。
They just can't stay there.。
I was talking to someone in the morning.。
He was updating me about what's going on in China.。
You cannot imagine living in a place like this, you know,。
where COVID is almost over, but the government is not willing to step down.。
It's not willing to change the policy, right?。
I just Googled, you know, BBC News, China COVID,。
protesters, you know, from Beijing to Chengdu, Chengdu,。
protesters openly urged Xi Jinping to resign over the COVID policy.。
All over the place, you know, people are protesting.。
You cannot imagine living in a place like this, and you have to go.。
You go to somewhere else, right?。
So I met some friends in Toronto.。
They have the same stories, right?。
Yeah, we have a happy time, but, you know, they have a tough life, you know.。
That's why in the Torah, when it mentions Shavuot,。
the time of harvest, the time when you get your paychecks, right,。
it continues to talk about how we should live with all we have.。
So we read part of the passage from chapter 23,。
the book of Leviticus.。
Let's continue.。
Verse 22.。
Now it's talking about Shavuot, right, Pentecost.。
You have to bring your grain offering to the Lord.。
And then verse 22, it says, "When you harvest your crops of your land,。
do not harvest the grain along the edges of your fields,。
and do not pick up what the harvesters drop.。
Live it for the poor and the foreigners, the aliens living among you.。
Be kind to them. I am the Lord, Yahweh, your God."。
Now, listen to this law, this Torah.。
It is essentially relational, right?。
It flows out of your relationship with God。
because God is giving you good things.。
Now you can harvest, you can get your paychecks, right?。
And then from your blustered life,。
you flow out the kindness of God to other people who are needy around you.。
Who is the first reader of this Torah, of this regulation?。
It's not the poor.。
It's not the needy.。
It's written for those who have a lot, right?。
Who has land, who has harvest, who has workers working in the field, right?。
23, 22, when you harvest your land, right?。
So you own the land, right? You have a farm.。
You have harvest, you got your money, you got your paycheck, right?。
Don't just think about, "Okay, I want to buy this," or "I want to buy that."。
Just fulfill my needs and fulfill my wants, right?。
After Thanksgiving, after Black Friday, and then we think about,。
"Okay, Cyber Monday, what should I buy? What do I want?"。
This regulation is telling you, as the people of God,。
we need to think about those around us who are in need.。
Leave them.。
The edges of your field, you know, when you cannot harvest everything,。
just leave it there.。
Share with some other people, right?。
Leave it there.。
When you drop something, leave it there。
so the people following you, behind you,。
just like Ruth, the girl, the moorbyte,。
leave it for the poor and the foreigners living among you.。
Be kind to them.。
Always think of when you harvest, when you get your paycheck,。
how can I be generous to those in need?。
Everything has to do with relationship.。
Torah, the law, is imitating God.。
God is generous.。
Look at the universe around us.。
God is generous.。
He made a huge universe for us to explore, for us to enjoy.。
This is the life of God.。
That's why the life of God's people。
needs to be generous and gracious。
to imitate the character of God.。
The last verse I want to share with you is Acts 2.1.。
Now when we think about Pentecost,。
when we think about the festival weeks, the harvest,。
we always think of Pentecost,。
what happened was the Holy Spirit。
descending into the lives of people,。
and then there were signs and wonders, right?。
People speaking in tongues and all this.。
Miracles happening in the early church.。
Now listen to what it says, 2.1.。
2.1.。
When the day of Pentecost arrived,。
first phrase, first sentence.。
A better translation is actually。
when the day of Pentecost was being fulfilled.。
It's being fulfilled.。
What is being fulfilled?。
It's the spirit, the essence of the festival,。
the harvest, and being generous.。
Now we often, as I said,。
we often pay attention to the signs and wonders, right?。
But if you trace the story of Pentecost。
up to chapter 4, 4.34,。
it describes the life of the early church,。
the early Christians, the early Jewish Christians.。
In the day of Pentecost, when it is fulfilled,。
when the Holy Spirit came upon His people,。
and they shared their things with one another, right?。
Those who were well-off,。
they shared their own properties.。
They shared their own goods。
with those who are in need around them.。
4.34, there were no needy people among them.。
That is the miracle.。
That is the true sign and wonder.。
It's not speaking in tongue.。
It's not just enjoying,。
okay, we have a high worship time, high life, right?。
It's the fact that they are being generous to one another, right?。
If you check the phrase, "no needy people among them,"。
this phrase is in the book of Torah,。
the book of Deuteronomy.。
When the people of God is really applying,。
you know, the Torah of God,。
being generous, living the life of God together,。
there's no needy people among them.。
That's what the early Christian church experienced.。
No needy people among them.。
So I invite you to go back to the Bible。
as we check the--as we study the festival of Shavuot, Pentecost.。
Think about how God has blessed you so much, abundantly,。
and how you can bless other people,。
and you can be generous to other people, right?。
Look around the world, you know, pray for those who are in need.。
Pray for those who are under oppression.。
You know, I hope you understand I'm not talking about early politics.。
I'm talking about the kingdom of God,。
full of justice, compassion, and righteousness.。
That's what God wills, right?。
That people will respect one another, to love one another,。
under the Torah of God, to participate in the life of God.。
I'm talking about that.。
I'm talking about heavenly politics,。
justice, and compassion, right?。
Think about, you know, past week,。
we spent a great time, Thanksgiving,。
we ate a lot, we probably threw out a lot of food.。
Just learned plenty.。
How we can bless other people and exercise generosity.。
Let's operate together.。
Father, we give you thanks because you have blessed us abundantly.。
Thank you so much for your blessing.。
The life that we have, the stuff that we have, is more than enough.。
Thank you for being our good God and faithful God.。
And most of all, thank you for giving your son, Jesus Christ,。
to give us eternal life, give us forgiveness of sin.。
And boy, we pray for not only being thankful,。
pray that we can be kind and generous and compassionate toward other people.。
Those who are heartbroken, those who live in places of oppression,。
those who are struggling with settling down in a foreign land,。
the needy people around us.。
Open our eyes, God, that we don't just see and so focus on our needs and our wants.。
Because you have indeed blessed us so much.。
Open our eyes so that we can see the needs around us.。
No matter if it's churches, it's ministries, it's other people that we know,。
help us to be generous.。
Help us to give.。
Help us to bless other people.。
And we pray that we will be a people living under your Torah。
to know your will and apply your will in our lives.。
And we pray that you will send us off this week。
so that we will go to our corners, go to our own places,。
our situation in our lives, that we can be a blessing to other people.。
And what a privilege we can participate in the life of God.。
What a privilege we can share your grace, share your blessing to other people.。
May our lives be an instrument of your grace.。
In Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
Well, God bless you, and we'll see you next week,。
and continue to worship and learn about God.。
All right, God bless.。
