to bring the word to us.。
Does love have an open door?。
Welcome stranger。
Give us your tired and poor。
All those in need。
Come every weary soul。
Find your haven, liberty is。
For all who can breathe free。
Oh what a beautiful world, what a beautiful world。
Oh what a beautiful world, what a beautiful world。
Welcome to America!。
Does love have an open door?。
Welcome stranger。
Does love have an open door?。
All those in need。
Oh what a beautiful world。
We're here!。
Oh what a beautiful world。
Oh what a beautiful world, what a beautiful world。
Welcome stranger。
Welcome stranger。
Welcome stranger。
Well it's great to be with you here today.。
I feel like it's been a while though。
when I realized pulling into the parking lot that。
there was another church that had parking and there were signs about where I could park and couldn't park。
and you know even being in this time post-pandemic and yet new waves of the pandemic。
ministry has just changed tremendously during this time.。
The video that you saw really represents what my work is these days with World Relief.。
World Relief is a local global organization so we are based here in Chicagoland。
but we have offices in 16 locations around the United States.。
I'm off to the Sacramento office to speak here coming up.。
Mark I know has some root there.。
And then we have 20 offices around the globe。
so we're involved in quite a few settings.。
But the subject matter that I'm speaking to you today about is really something that is dear to my heart。
not just something that I do for my job.。
And yet I also respect the fact that we're in a pulpit here。
that this is a place where God's word is conveyed.。
So you don't want to, I don't want you to hear me doing an infomercial.。
I really want you to hear the scriptures today as we speak together.。
And yet I think it will weave well with the conversations that we have around。
what's happening in our world and the mass displacement of people.。
You may have heard this famous quote before.。
I'm wondering if it's one you're familiar with.。
The quote is, "Each of them is Jesus in disguise."。
Each of them is Jesus in disguise.。
This was Mother Teresa's explanation of her ministry serving the poorest of the poor。
in Calcutta, India.。
This is what she said of the vulnerable people that she encountered。
amidst her own struggles and doubts about her faith.。
Her life's work, no matter how poor or destitute those she worked with were,。
was to see them as they truly are, as blessed children bearing God's image。
no matter where they've come from or who they are.。
Brandon Heath, a contemporary Christian artist known for at least two hits,。
"Give Me Your Eyes" and "The Light in Me,"。
was moved by Mother Teresa's words to write a song in 2008 called "Jesus in Disguise."。
Yet today, when I hear the words "disguise" and "vulnerable people,"。
it's not about ministry these days.。
It's about fear.。
Fear of people who have been displaced.。
They are labeled as a haven for terrorists who are intent on harming us。
but disguising themselves to sneak into our country.。
In light of 9/11 this weekend, I can certainly see our reasons for caution here.。
But a couple things I think that we should know,。
and that is that it's not likely that our country would have that happen through those we serve.。
Our country's track record on refugee resettlement is a strong and stable work.。
Three million people have actually been brought into this country over the past 30, 40 years now,。
since 1980 with the Refugee Act, and not one citizen has died at the hands of a refugee.。
So that vetting process has been pretty thorough and extensive through the years.。
Inciting fear of certain people in blanket ways to cast blame on them is bigotry and racism,。
and it should not be tolerated and should not happen, especially among those of us that are Christians.。
Our country and its leaders have not always gotten that right either, and for that I do apologize.。
This is not an easy topic, though, I want to say to you to discuss,。
so I pray that you hear what I say in the right spirit.。
Just as it is the government's responsibility to properly vet people that are entering this country,。
it is the Christian's responsibility to welcome the stranger.。
If we expect the government to do their job, then we should do ours.。
Most of us who identify as Christians have never really thought about migration or forced migration in particular,。
but it's in the Bible. From its beginning, in the book of Genesis,。
we find a man and a woman violating the laws of the land and placed in removal from the Garden of Eden,。
which is forced displacement. At the end of the Bible, we find John writing the book of Revelation in Patmos,。
where he is exiled as an expatriate for his beliefs.。
The Bible is full of story after story of forcibly displaced people.。
Joseph was forcibly displaced as a victim of human trafficking.。
Moses was forcibly displaced for taking justice in his own hands.。
Moses certainly carried that out. David was forcibly displaced as a political refugee on the run from King Saul for 12 years of his life.。
And Jesus was forcibly displaced to Egypt with his family soon after his birth to find safety from profiling and ethnic cleansing as a refugee.。
And the first missionary in the Bible, if we think of it this way, Philip ran from Samaria or ran to Samaria。
because of religious persecution that had broken out in the city of Jerusalem.。
Priscilla and Aquila, who were Paul's business partners and ministry partners together,。
were forcibly displaced to leave Rome and go to Corinth because of their beliefs.。
That's how Paul met them, is because Caesar had thrown out all of the Jews from Rome.。
Forced displacement is in the Bible, but very few Christians have recognized it or understood what it means for us and how we treat them.。
World Relief for Us has a 40-day Bible reading and prayer challenge just to help churches understand more of our responsibilities in this area。
before God regarding the strangers that are in our midst.。
Most Christians just have not had their eyes open to this reality.。
I think one of the main reasons that we see that this day and these attitudes is because of a lack of biblical education around this area.。
But the other thing that I see that we're living in today is a time of great media influence.。
And media is extremely powerful in these days.。
Polling data really tells us today that Christians are more influenced by media and by politics than they are by the Bible and by their faith。
when it comes particularly to this issue.。
I can tell you though story after story of lives that have been changed by welcoming our newer neighbors.。
The Bible is clear. There is no question with the new society that Jesus brought in that we are to welcome strangers.。
Matthew 25 is probably one of those signature texts, one of those greatest texts to point this out to us.。
I believe the church needs to really wake up to this reality and our responsibility before God to do what we can to help.。
So this morning I'd like us to look more closely at Jesus' words in Matthew chapter 25.。
We're going to be looking at the end of that chapter beginning in verse 31 when God brings true justice to all of the world.。
I'd like to read to you the words of Jesus beginning in verse 31 of Matthew 25.。
It says there, "But when the Son of Man comes in His glory and all the angels with Him, then He will sit on His glorious throne。
and all the nations will be gathered in His presence.。
And He will separate the people as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.。
And He will place the sheep on His right hand and He will place the goats on His left.。
And then the King will say to those who are on His right, 'Come, you who are blessed by the Father,。
inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the creation of the world.。
For I was hungry and you fed me. I was thirsty and you gave me drink.。
I was a stranger and you invited me into your home. I was naked and you gave me clothing.。
I was sick and you cared for me. I was in prison and you visited me.'。
Then these righteous ones will reply, 'Lord, when did we ever see you hungry and feed you,。
or thirsty and give you something to drink, or even a stranger and show you hospitality,。
or naked and give you clothing? When did we ever see you sick in prison and visit you?'。
And the King will say, 'I tell you the truth, when you did it for one of the least of these, my brothers and sisters,。
you were doing it to me.'。
Then the King will turn to those that are on His left and He'll say, 'Away with you, you cursed ones,。
into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and the demons.。
For I was hungry and you didn't feed me. I was thirsty and you didn't give me a drink.。
I was a stranger and you didn't invite me into your home.。
I was naked and you didn't even give me clothing.。
I was sick and in prison and you didn't visit me there.'。
Then they will reply, 'Lord, when did we ever see you sick or thirsty or hungry or stranger or naked and not help you?'。
And He will answer, 'I tell you the truth, when you refused to help the least of these, my brothers and sisters,。
you were refusing to help me.'。
And they will go away into internal punishment, but the righteous will go into eternal life."。
So let me just break this apart a bit for us to think about what the teaching here that Jesus is giving.。
Really the immediate setting that we see here is the passage is the throne room of God for the entire world.。
It's the place where all of ruling of society will happen and that throne room is God's throne room.。
There's a broader setting though here in this particular text and the broader setting is the end of time.。
All things have been finished and time has come to an end.。
But there's a greater challenge even being extended just beyond this section of Scripture in this whole chapter.。
Because we have here the parable of the ten virgins, we have the parable of the three servants, all in this chapter.。
And the broader challenge is that we need to be well prepared and using what we've been given wisely.。
The characters introduced to us here, other than Jesus, are the angels who were with Him。
and all the nations that have been gathered together in Jesus' presence.。
Imagine that experience.。
All of the nations gathered, I can't even fathom what it would be like to see all of the nations gathered together before Jesus.。
And He is center stage in this.。
He's center stage in the scene that we're hearing here in all of His glory preparing for the final judgment.。
The opening scene and the only scene in this picture is Jesus sorting things out.。
In particular, Jesus as the chief shepherd is separating the sheep from the goats, the blessed from the cursed,。
those who will go into eternal punishment and those who will go into eternal life.。
What's at risk?。
Well, both futures and a vast inheritance that's been prepared before creation began.。
But note this, very interesting.。
An inheritance is not something that is earned, is it?。
But it's something that's given.。
So Jesus is sharing His Father's inheritance by His choice,。
not as some earned income for what these people have done to deserve that inheritance that He's given them.。
Yet the fundamental character of those who receive this inheritance and those who won't。
are those who are blessed and those who are cursed, their character couldn't be more different.。
The difference seems to center on those who are willing to help and those who are not.。
Ones whose hearts are tender toward those who are vulnerable around them。
and those whose hearts have become calloused, whose love has grown cold toward those hurting around them.。
Today, we might call it compassion fatigue.。
With all the suffering we see and are exposed to in our globally collected community,。
it certainly requires of us great discernment, supernatural power,。
and even seeing God as our source to respond appropriately to all of these situations that we see,。
asking God to help us so that we might help others.。
In what ways are we supposed to help?。
Well, we might think about the grand things that we should be doing,。
but really this passage of scripture is super practical.。
Pretty much it means just meet basic needs, nothing very extravagant.。
Give someone some food or give them some drink if they're hungry and thirsty.。
If someone's a stranger, find a way to make them feel welcome.。
If they don't have clothing, give them some clothes to wear.。
If they're sick, care for them.。
If they're in prison, go to see them.。
These all sound like really simple actions, but they are essential for life.。
But why should we do this?。
Why should we be engaged in this kind of good behavior that we think is here?。
And it's so interesting how Jesus really challenges us to think about it.。
He says we should do this because he identifies so closely with these vulnerable people。
that the very act of helping them is helping him.。
What are the consequences?。
Well, the consequences are pretty stark here.。
The cursed are sent away empty-handed into eternal punishment,。
and the blessed are invited to come to receive the inheritance of eternal life.。
Pretty stark differences there.。
So let me ask this really as we close here.。
I want us to think about making sure that what I'm sharing with you is on good theological footing.。
So I want to really draw my conclusions from Baker's Evangelical Dictionary of Biblical Theology.。
It sounds a pretty credible source for finding this kind of conclusion.。
And it's specifically the words of a Chicago theologian whose name is Scott McKnight.。
And he says this about these Bible verses that we're looking at here today.。
"Jesus demanded that his followers obey him,。
and that those who were obedient to his will would be called the righteous.。
It's also the case that he called his followers to live a life of love,。
love for God and love for others.。
As Jesus compared--showed his compassion for others by healing them and helping them,。
so Jesus called on us to do the very same thing.。
As Jesus was willing to reach out to help people of all nations,。
so the disciples are charged to make their love transnational in nature.。
Thus the foundation of the tension of the church that it had with Israel。
over the symbolic value of the nation of Israel。
may have really rooted Jesus' teaching to love and minister to all nations,。
not just to Israel.。
This universal love would be a fundamental factor we see here in the final judgment of God."。
So what's he saying there?。
He's saying, according to Jesus, loving God by loving others is the greatest commandment.。
And doing it among the nations may be one of the greatest challenges for the church today.。
Jesus said in John's Gospel that the world will know us by our love,。
and our love for God is expressed in how we love our neighbor.。
But who's our neighbor?。
Well, fortunately, Jesus answers that question too, doesn't he, in the Scriptures.。
In Luke's Gospel, Jesus says that a loving neighbor is best illustrated by the Good Samaritan,。
a person who shows mercy to an injured person he doesn't even know,。
maybe not even respected,。
and doesn't even share his faith as the priest and the Levite did who passed him by.。
May I say to you today, you and I are that injured person on the side of the road,。
left for dead in our sins until Jesus showed up and showed us mercy.。
He extended a helping hand to us and gave generously so that you might be well cared for。
and enjoy the riches of eternal life.。
The big question is this, though.。
Should you and I do anything less for someone who's in a similar situation?。
And how do we show our love?。
Very simply, we meet real needs we see in very tangible ways.。
Expecting nothing in return until the final judgment when Jesus will make all things right.。
So may I suggest to you one way you might respond to this eminent need,。
and an eminent need that's in our own backyard right now as people begin arriving this fall.。
So please watch this video and consider what God would have you do.。
By now we have all seen videos and photos of the evolving crisis in Afghanistan.。
We have heard about the many thousands of people who have been forced to leave behind everything they have or have known.。
People who bear the image of God.。
If you are anything like me, it breaks your heart and makes you ask, "What can I do? How can I help?"。
At Water Libra, we understand, we believe that you are meant to be a force for good right here in Chicagoland.。
Over the past 20 years, we have guided churches and individuals to welcome, befriend,。
and help support over 9,000 Afghan immigrants in vulnerable situations in communities all across our nation.。
Over 500 here in Chicagoland.。
Right now, Water Libra is actively preparing to accept 750 people from all over the world to Chicagoland in the coming year.。
There's over 150 coming from Afghanistan.。
We need you.。
This is how you help.。
Pray. Pray for people fleeing Afghanistan and other conflict zones around the world.。
Pray for those who have recently arrived here in Chicagoland.。
And pray that God will reveal how you should respond.。
Volunteer. Gather others from your church to serve in high-need volunteer roles.。
The most urgent needs are on our website.。
Donate needed items.。
Together, we can furnish the apartments of every refugee family who arrives to Chicagoland through Water Libra.。
Give. Financial donations provide many of the vital services and ongoing supports needed by those arriving from Afghanistan and other parts of the world.。
All of these ways to partner are outlined on our website, along with how to register for Here to Welcome, an ongoing way to learn more and get involved.。
We believe in the church.。
We believe that we are called to support in moments of crisis like the situation in Afghanistan and the earthquake in Haiti.。
We look forward to continuing to share with you how you can help change the world.。
There are displaced people all over the world.。
In fact, the current numbers that I see are about one person every two seconds being displaced in the world,。
which brings us to almost 80 million people.。
People all across Asia, people across Europe.。
We see famines that have created movements of people, earthquakes and hurricanes that move people around.。
Maybe what we're talking about here locally is not where your heart is.。
Maybe your heart is for another group of people who've been displaced, whatever part of the world you're in.。
What's God calling you to do as a result?。
How is he calling you to act to be his hands and his feet and really to care for him as you care for others?。
Let me pray for us.。
Father in heaven, we thank you so much for the challenge that we have from your son Jesus and how we care and love others.。
Lord, we know that the world will know us by our love,。
and so I pray that we would not be characterized as people who make stereotypes and maybe lay aside or turn the other way。
when we see situations that are difficult, but we step into them and we act in ways that you've called us to act.。
I love the way in the scriptures at the Church of Macedonia that it says that they helped with what they were able。
and beyond what they were able because of the generosity of their hearts.。
I pray, Lord, that our hearts would not be cold,。
but that our hearts would be warm toward those who are vulnerable around us and find ways to help them。
and bring glory to you and serve you as we serve them.。
Thanks so much for this day, God.。
Speak to us and instruct us, even as we saw at Pentecost, challenge our hearts to the things that you would have us do.。
And I pray all of this now in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
