Good morning, guys.。
Why don't we say hi to each other?。
Just wave your hand.。
Good to be here.。
Whose bottle is this?。
Oh, it's some living water, yeah.。
Okay, today we are going to continue。
with the reflection on what is going on。
in Israel-Palestine.。
I'm not going to talk so much about。
what is going on right there on the ground.。
It's tragedy to both sides.。
No matter what happened, ground invasion。
or spill out into a regional conflict,。
it's going to be bad.。
What I would like to do is, in this conflict,。
there were a lot of different arguments。
and a lot of different discussions about the land.。
So I would like to walk you through,。
like what I did last week,。
walk you through the entire Bible。
from the first book, Genesis,。
to the last book, Revelation,。
and what is going on with the theme of land.。
Definitely in the Old Testament,。
there were a lot of discussions。
and a lot of emphasis on land,。
land of Canaan, which is between the Mediterranean Sea。
and the desert on the right,。
that narrow corridor.。
In this conflict currently happening,。
people often come to the debates and the arguments,。
whose land is this and who should stay in this land?。
And it can be very divisive.。
But I want to walk you through。
from Old Testament to New Testament,。
what is going on here.。
Sometimes we miss the big picture.。
The Bible, when the Bible talks about the land of Canaan,。
the promised land, it actually talks about grace.。
It actually talks about God's gifting the land。
to the Israelites, to the Old Testament people.。
And the land is a sheer, a sheer gift from God.。
And the people of God get to enter。
and to enjoy the land all because of God's grace.。
Of course, there was a covenant between God and the people,。
and the people are to be faithful.。
People are to follow the Torah,。
the principles lay out in the Old Testament,。
especially the first five books, how to manage their land.。
So when the Bible talks about God gifting the land。
to the Old Testament people,。
it is not saying, okay, anything goes.。
You know, I just give you this piece of property。
and you can just go in and do whatever you want, right?。
And by the way, we talk about the people of God being chosen,。
right, chosen people of God.。
The word chosen or the concept of election, chosen,。
does not mean the people being chosen have privileges,。
does not mean the people being chosen are superior.。
Chosen or being elected means God is choosing you。
to be his instrument to bless other people, right?。
So it's the land, the land is a gift.。
And the Israelites are called to manage it well。
and to give back and to love God.。
So there are many different principles in the Torah,。
and I wanna give you a sample of it.。
One of the sample that talks about。
how people should behave in the land,。
in the land gifted by God.。
Deuteronomy 24, it says,。
"When you beat the olives from your olive trees," okay,。
"don't beat it twice.。
"The remaining olives are for the foreigners。
"or the orphans, the widows.。
"When you gather the grapes in your vineyard,。
"do not clean the vines after they are picked.。
"Leave the remaining grapes for the foreigners,。
"orphans, and widows.。
"Remember that you were slaves in the land of Egypt.。
"That is why I am giving you this command."。
Now, this is very interesting.。
When you beat the olives, what does it mean, right?。
Have you seen the olive tree?。
Olive tree, no?。
Okay, you've seen olives, right?。
In whole foods.。
Right, but olive tree, the olive tree,。
it's like an umbrella,。
and when you harvest olive tree,。
the olives are on the tree, on the branches,。
and how you do it?。
You have a blanket under the tree,。
and then you use a wood stick,。
and then you beat the branches.。
When you beat the branches, the mature olives will fall,。
and then you will gather it underneath。
with a blanket or with baskets.。
So that's what it's talking about.。
When you beat the olive tree,。
when you harvest the olive tree,。
don't harvest to the end every single piece of olives.。
Leave it there.。
Why?。
Because after you harvest,。
then the poor and the needy,。
they will come to your field,。
and they can have their summit field.。
You see what it's saying?。
Okay, vineyard as well.。
You know, have you seen vineyard?。
Grapes, have you seen grapes?。
Whole food, right?。
Yeah, but vineyard, we're talking about vineyard, right?。
The branches, right?。
When the grapes mature, you're gonna clean them, right?。
You can take them down, cut them down.。
But what it says here is that you have to have leftover。
remaining in the vineyard, on the vines.。
Please, why?。
Because the needy will come by,。
and they can enjoy the fruit.。
That is what land management or farm management。
looks like in the Old Testament.。
And usually those laws,。
this kind of law, similar principles,。
are all over the place in the Old Testament.。
And usually they are followed by one clause,。
what we call the motive clause.。
Motive clause, verse 22.。
It gives you the motive.。
So the Torah is not just like,。
you know, I give you this principle, this commandment,。
and you have to observe it,。
so you can earn my favor, right?。
No.。
It gives you the motive clause.。
Remember that you were once slaves in the land of Egypt.。
Remember you were saved by grace.。
Remember I saved you by grace from Pharaoh, from Egypt.。
Now you settled down in the land.。
You should not imitate the oppressors, right?。
You should leave behind some resources。
so you can bless other people, right?。
You can be generous.。
So the promise of,。
they get to enter the land。
in order the land will be filled with,。
you know, resources, can bless other people.。
Again and again, the Bible tells us in the Old Testament,。
the land promise was already fulfilled.。
Not one word has failed.。
Everyone was fulfilled.。
Not one thing has fallen.。
Everything God promised to the Israelites were fulfilled.。
That's why they can settle down in the land,。
and then they build a kingdom, right?。
But of course, that's not how the story goes, right?。
In the Old Testament, when the people of God,。
they build their own kingdom, then they were divided,。
and they continue to oppress other people.。
And until 586 BC,。
God sent the Babylonians to destroy Jerusalem。
and the country of Judah,。
because they violate, they violate the Torah.。
So they were in exile.。
But then in exile, they came back, right?。
Under Ezra and Nehemiah,。
you can also call that second Exodus.。
And other Exodus, they came back from the exile land,。
back to Jerusalem, back to their homeland.。
But more importantly, when they came back to the land,。
they did not treat it as we conquest.。
They're not conquering the land again.。
When they came back to the land,。
they understand it is a regifting.。
God is regifting them a new, generous,。
a gracious opportunity to serve God.。
So you remember those guys, Ezra and Nehemiah, right?。
Came back, Ezra as a scribe,。
and teaching the people the Torah,。
and lead them into a spiritual revival, right?。
And then there was big, long prayer in Ezra chapter nine.。
And then Nehemiah had prayed the same prayer,。
or similar prayer in chapter nine of the book of Nehemiah.。
They all talk about the same thing, and with the same tone.。
And let's listen to their tone.。
In the midst of spiritual revival, back in the land,。
being regifted.。
Oh my God, I'm ashamed, utterly ashamed,。
for our sins are power higher than our heads.。
But now we have been given a brief moment of grace,。
for the Lord our God has allowed a few of us。
to survive as remnant.。
We are the remaining people,。
because we have abandoned your commands.。
There's no demand of God, giving them the land again.。
There's no demand of God that says,。
no, this land belong to us, because we were here first.。
There's no sense of entitlement,。
but only a sense of repentance, right?。
Knowing that God is now gracious enough to regift them,。
so that they can serve God in the land.。
And then the Old Testament story continues into,。
between the Old and New Testament,。
there were three to 400 years,。
and the people of God were still yearning。
for the real return.。
Because yeah, physically they are returned, right?。
They have returned to the land physically,。
but spiritually, politically,。
they were still under different empires, right?。
Persian empires, Greek empires, and then Roman empire.。
They did not have their freedom.。
And the people were looking forward,。
someday God will fulfill his promise again,。
fulfill his promise in the Messiah.。
So the second theme we have to think about。
is that the entire Old Testament。
is actually pointing forward to a goal.。
And that goal is our Lord Jesus Christ.。
In Jesus, we find that all the promises of the land。
and other promises are fulfilled.。
Yes, the people lost the land because of a sin.。
After exile, they were still up in the air.。
But not because God failed, God is faithful.。
The people failed, the other party of the covenant,。
they failed, they did not keep the covenant.。
Now this has to do with Jesus.。
Now think about how the New Testament,。
the first book of New Testament introduced Jesus.。
What is the first book of the New Testament?。
Gospel of Matthew, right, Matthew.。
The genealogies, right, from Abraham。
all the way down to Christ, and then the birth of Christ,。
and then living under an other pharaoh,。
Held the Great, and he was persecuted.。
And then the Holy Family, Joseph, Mary, and Joseph,。
they were kind of exiled from the land。
and they went down to Egypt, which is on the left-hand side.。
And then after the pharaoh, the new pharaoh,。
Held the Great died, they returned back to the land, right?。
So there's exile and return in the life of Jesus.。
So as you can see in the Bible,。
already in the first book of the New Testament,。
the Gospel of Matthew, they look at the life story of Jesus,。
his life, his mission, his ministry,。
his death and resurrection, in light of the story of Israel.。
Because in Jesus, no matter what happened to him,。
no matter what he did and what he said,。
they find that Jesus is the true Israelites。
who keeps the covenant perfectly.。
He fulfilled all the promise and secure all the promises。
for those who are in Christ.。
You are in Christ, I am in Christ.。
So in that sense, we share that promise,。
which is included, which the land is included.。
So in some sense, as we trace the entire Old Testament。
to New Testament, we know that, so listen up,。
Old Testament, the Old Testament is incomplete。
without the New Testament, right?。
If you read the entire Old Testament,。
which probably you haven't, right?。
But if you read them, all the books, 39 books,。
you come to the end, it's an open-end book.。
What is going on, right?。
We're still yearning for another episode, right?。
In some sense, you can imagine the Old Testament。
and New Testament as a unit, as an entire grand story。
that has a lot of episode.。
The Old Testament is episode one to episode 98.。
After 98, you're still yearning for something, right?。
The hope, the promise is unfulfilled.。
And then episode 99 is New Testament, right?。
Jesus came and he fulfilled all the promises.。
He secured the fulfillment.。
Where's episode number 100?。
It's the new heaven, new earth, right?。
That we're all going in Christ.。
In that sense, Old Testament and New Testament are a unit.。
So when you trace the land promise, the theme of land,。
you come to Jesus and Jesus fulfilled principally,。
fundamentally, he fulfilled that promise of inheritance,。
the promise of land.。
So in the New Testament, we are not looking forward。
to any point or any piece of property on earth.。
You cannot find it with a GPS.。
You find it in Jesus Christ, the living person。
who loved you and died for you and rose from the dead.。
Let me take a look at, fast forward to the book of Hebrews.。
Hebrews chapter 11.。
Remember this chapter is a list of faithful heroes, right?。
In the Old Testament.。
So-and-so is so faithful and they obtained the promise.。
And now come to 1110, Abraham, talking about Abraham.。
Abraham is the first story, the forefather of Israel.。
He was confidently looking forward to a city。
with eternal foundations, a city designed and built by God.。
So what was Abraham looking for?。
He was probably in episode three, right?。
Abraham in the Old Testament.。
He was looking forward or hoping for not a point。
on the map, not a physical point on the map,。
but looking forward to the heavenly city.。
And the New Testament is clear.。
It's clear the new city is in episode 100.。
Someday in Christ, we will see that new city。
coming down from heaven, the new Jerusalem to earth.。
And that is our hope.。
The Bible is clear, the fulfillment of land promise.。
Indeed, every promise of God is found none other。
than Jesus himself, Jesus Christ himself.。
Ephesians chapter one.。
It talks about how blessed we are in Christ.。
How many promises and how many blessings。
we receive in Christ.。
Chapter one, seven.。
In Christ or in God, we have redemption through his blood.。
The forgiveness of our trespasses,。
according to the riches of his grace,。
which he lavished upon us.。
God is so resourceful and he is so willing。
to lavish on us blessing.。
I remember when my kids were younger,。
of course, young kids, they like candy, right?。
They like candy.。
I used to buy them some candy, right?。
And then they were so happy.。
When I buy them a little box of candy。
and they were overjoyed, right?。
Little did they know that my credit card。
can buy millions of candies.。
And I can shower upon their heads, right?。
That is what is happening here in Ephesians one.。
God is God of blessing.。
And in Jesus, we have so much riches of his grace,。
which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight.。
Verse nine, making known to us the mystery of his will。
according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ。
as a plan for the fullness of time。
to unite all things in Jesus,。
things in heaven and things on earth.。
Everything in the universe, everything in the cosmos。
is united together, found the fulfillment in Jesus Christ.。
Verse 11, in him we have obtained an inheritance, the land.。
And what is the land?。
Episode 100, new heaven and new earth.。
We have obtained the inheritance, the property in heaven,。
in new heaven, new earth,。
having been predestined according to the purposes of him。
who works all things according to the counsel of his will。
so that we who are the first to hope in Christ。
might be to the praise of his glory.。
This is episode 99, and telling us someday we will inherit.。
The inheritance, the land in episode 100.。
I know most of us live in Chicago, right?。
We live in Illinois, right?。
You know the most expensive house in Illinois?。
Where is it?。
The most expensive house in Illinois, in the state of Illinois.。
Where is it?。
Let me give you a clue, in Chicago.。
It is in Chicago.。
The most expensive house in the state of Illinois。
is in Chicago, in the city of Chicago, right?。
Have you seen it?。
Which neighborhood?。
Lincoln Park.。
Anyone from Lincoln Park?。
The most expensive house in Illinois。
is located in Chicago, Lincoln Park.。
The price for the house is 50 million.。
50 million, imagine that, one house, right?。
25,000 square feet, 11 bathrooms.。
Praise God, 11 bathrooms, right?。
Eight city lots, eight city lots, right?。
How many houses do you have?。
One house is one lot, right?。
Oh, no, no, no, one lot has so many houses, right?。
Eight city lots, big house, huge house.。
Imagine this most expensive house is God's inheritance.。
I'm using a very finite analogy, right?。
Imagine this is the inheritance that we have in Christ.。
Now, you don't get to live in that house yet, right?。
We're still in episode 99, but the key is given to you, right?。
If the key of the house is given to you,。
how you treat, where you gonna put your key?。
Where you put the house key?。
A 50 million dollar house, the key is already given to you.。
Someday you're gonna get into this mansion。
and you can enjoy the inheritance.。
Where you gonna keep the key?。
I don't know.。
I don't know, somewhere in the safe, right?。
Would you give it to your dog?。
Probably not, right?。
Hopefully not.。
That is the new heaven, new of the inheritance。
that Apostle Paul is telling us.。
In Christ, we have that gift.。
We have that inheritance, secure and fulfilled。
in Jesus Christ.。
That's why we are being gifted so much.。
And at the same time, if we understand。
that we have experienced grace of God, right?。
The lavish grace of God.。
It should motivate us to be generous people, right?。
We are so generous.。
We can be so generous because we are so blessed.。
I know Thanksgiving is around the corner。
and I've been thinking about grace,。
the goodness of God, the blessing of God,。
and our responses.。
I wanna close today with a parable, a parable by Jesus.。
And usually when we hear this parable,。
when we study this parable,。
we don't read this parable with the perspective。
of inheritance, the father's house, right?。
The household, the big household.。
Usually we read this parable understanding the love of God.。
Yeah, definitely.。
But I wanna go through this parable with you。
and with this perspective.。
Remember the parable of prodigal son?。
The prodigal son?。
The younger son who is rebellious, right?。
And he took his inheritance and go to far country。
and waste them all, right?。
And he was suffering and he just thought on him,。
hey, maybe I should return to the father's house。
and rather be a servant, right?。
That's a parable of prodigal son.。
But actually if you read it carefully,。
the parable of prodigal son is parable of two sons.。
Two sons, the younger and the older, right?。
The younger and the firstborn.。
The younger son, as I said, goes away。
and spend all of his inheritance from the father。
and he suffered so much.。
And then the son realized the patience。
of the father is enduring, right?。
So he decided to just go back to the father's house.。
He hurts his father deeply and he knows。
he does not deserve the favor of God.。
So he made up his mind and say,。
no, I'm not worthy to be called my father's son,。
but I would rather go back to be one of his servants.。
So he goes back and he just wanna work for his father。
as a slave working for the master.。
But when the son returns home, what did he find?。
He does not see a stern master,。
but a loving and patient father waiting for him.。
The loving father is waiting for him.。
He saw him and felt compassion and ran。
and embraced and kissed him.。
Now, this sort of actions, usually in that kind of culture,。
in biblical culture, means humiliation.。
Old men don't run.。
They walk slowly, right?。
And respectfully, keeping their honor.。
But this father seeing the younger son coming back,。
he ran and embraced him and kissed him。
and threw a party for him and celebrate.。
So the son returns home,。
returned to his father's land and inheritance.。
Now, at this point, the firstborn,。
the elder son came back, right?。
And how did he react?。
He comes home from the farm。
and he heard about the celebration。
for the long lost younger brother, but he was angry.。
He said, "It's not fair."。
Why?。
Because he has been working so hard, right,。
to earn his father's favor.。
And he was angry against his father。
and the younger son, his brother,。
because he has been working so hard。
to earn the favor of God.。
And the father never threw a party for him.。
He, the elder son, is a dutiful son.。
He's a very faithful son, but he never realized, sadly,。
he is already living in and enjoying。
all the inheritance of the father,。
all the inheritance of the father,。
every single day since he was born.。
He would enjoy it and he would inherit。
all the land and inheritance.。
You see here, the two sons,。
one find that God's favor is undeserved.。
The other one is trying, working so hard。
in order to earn that, right?。
And the parable ends with, you know,。
you don't have to do that because God is so rich。
and God has blessed you and give you the inheritance.。
Now, usually theologians would define grace。
as unmerited favor.。
What does it mean, unmerited favor?。
It means that you don't deserve the grace of God,。
the love of God.。
Nonetheless, God loves you.。
God loves you even you don't deserve it,。
even you feel you don't deserve it.。
God still loves you.。
That is grace, right?。
No debate about it, unmerited favor.。
You don't deserve it, unmerited, but it comes upon you.。
But this is only one side of the coin.。
I will say grace is also dismerited favor.。
Now, what does it mean, dismerited favor?。
I don't know how to translate in Chinese,。
so yeah, don't worry about it.。
It's called dismerited favor.。
What it means is that you deserve judgment.。
We sinners, we deserve condemnation,。
yet condemnation does not come to us.。
God forgives.。
God forgives us even we do deserve condemnation.。
That is dismerited favor.。
It's not just unmerited favor, it's dismerited favor.。
This ought to be the motivation。
for our entire Christian life, right?。
You don't have to work so hard to earn God's favor,。
but it has given to you unmerited and dismerited.。
Once we experience the grace of God,。
our relationship with God should be motivated。
by a grateful response.。
Since God loves me so much, and I'm not worthy,。
I'm not dismerited, yet God's love comes upon my life,。
and I want to respond to God with gratitude,。
with worship, with my service.。
Yesterday, I read something really,。
I think it's meaningful for this season, Thanksgiving.。
That short piece is about gratefulness and gratitude.。
It's a reminder for me,。
and I want to close my sermon with this.。
There's a fine line between doing things for God。
with a strong sense of responsibility,。
and serving God with gratitude, gratefulness.。
So that short piece talks about this.。
Let me run it through.。
Grateful for, house to clean.。
You can take it as, I have to clean my house.。
Such a burden for me, right?。
Have you cleaned your house lately?。
Such a burden.。
But you can also reflect it on the other side.。
Yeah, I can clean my house because I'm grateful.。
God has given me a safe shelter to live.。
Doing laundry, right?。
It sucks doing laundry.。
I don't do it, my wife does.。
It sucks.。
But consider, we are doing laundry。
because God has been so blessing us with clothes to wear.。
Doing dishes, last night I was doing dishes,。
a lot of dishes, because my son came back。
to spend the night.。
Yeah, there were so many dishes, right?。
I do dishes, it sucks.。
You know, it come from a spirit of just being responsible.。
The elder son, by the way, the elder son.。
I'm working so hard, right?。
But gratitude says, we have food to eat, right?。
That's why we do dishes.。
Grocery shopping, right?。
It's routine, it's tedious.。
But God has provided me money, it's proficient.。
I have to clean toilets.。
But thank God for indoor plumbing.。
There were a lot of noise in my life,。
but thank God, we have people around us。
who care about us.。
There are endless questions about homework,。
for the kids especially, right?。
Endless assignments they have to do.。
Oh, so tired.。
But gratefulness says, hey, my kids are growing, right?。
Early wake-ups, just like this morning, right?。
Early wake-ups.。
Or Monday, right?。
Anyone has Monday blue?。
I do, right?。
Oh, what a day, we have to drag our body,。
you know, away from the mattress, right?。
To wake up, early wake-up.。
But hey, if you're taking care of the young kids,。
children to love, praise God.。
Throwing tire in bed, it sucks.。
But thank God I'm still alive.。
And by the way, ties an offering, right?。
One-tenth of our income goes into offering.。
Um, it feels burdensome.。
Yeah, I must say that, you know,。
I'm a Christian for many, many years.。
I feel like ties and offering, yeah, right?。
Yeah, it would be heaven if there was no ties and offering.。
However, gratefulness says,。
I do have the resources to bless other people, right?。
Last week we had the General Assembly。
and usually at the end of the year,。
all the churches and most of the organizations。
are lacking some resources.。
We do, our church does, yeah.。
It's challenging this year, right?。
Yesterday I was dining out in a restaurant with someone。
and then I paid the bill.。
$30 each person.。
$30 a meal, right?。
That's crazy, I didn't have enough.。
I was still hungry, leaving the restaurant, right?。
So I paid $60, right?。
The biggest struggle I have these days,。
dining out, is the tips.。
Can I cut the tips, right?。
Life is hard.。
But gratitude says,。
we have the resources to bless other people.。
God is too good.。
God is too resourceful.。
God of blessing.。
Let's all pray.。
Father, thank you for being our God, our infinite God.。
And you are the God of blessings.。
You are the God full of resources.。
And you are infinite.。
And your love never exhausts.。
Your patience towards us never exhausts.。
Thank you for being our great God.。
Thank you for the fact that in Christ,。
we enjoy the unmerited,。
dismerited favor.。
That we are in Christ, no more condemnation.。
And in Christ, we have new life.。
Thank you for all the good things。
that you have showered upon us.。
Especially as we end our service with communion,。
we pick up the bread and the cup of grape juice。
to remember how great you are。
and your love is so great.。
Beyond our comprehension,。
yet becomes a reality in our life.。
Encourage us and give us hope.。
Give us this new strength to live for you,。
to serve you.。
In Christ, we pray.。
