- Good morning, everyone.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Well, we are continuing our series on the Psalms。
and we are turning to Psalm 46.。
And this is one of the most well-known Psalms in the Bible,。
well-known Psalms in the world.。
And many people know this Psalm。
because there's a famous line in Psalm 46,。
"Be still and know that I am God."。
Recall any memory?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now, these words, "Be still and know that I am God,"。
has comforted many, many people in many generations.。
And this same Psalm,。
if you know this guy called Martin Luther,。
is one of the reformers 500 years ago,。
reformed the church.。
And he wrote a hymn, "Mighty Fortress is Our God."。
And the lyrics is coming from this Psalm, Psalm 46.。
And Luther, when he wrote this Psalm,。
he was under stress and under much suffering。
and persecution from the corrupt medieval Catholic church。
and in danger.。
And when he find that he was being persecuted。
and he find the courage from this Psalm, Psalm 46,。
"And God is our refuge and our strength."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then let me read the Psalm。
and we're gonna read the Psalms in three stanzas.。
Psalm 46, verse one.。
God is our refuge and strength。
and ever-present help in trouble.。
Therefore, we will not fear,。
though the earth give way。
and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea,。
though its waters roll and foam。
and the mountains quake with their surging.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then 46, there is a river。
whose streams make glad the city of God,。
the holy place where the Most High dwells.。
God is within her.。
She will not fall.。
God will help her at the break of the day.。
Nations are in uproar.。
Kingdoms fall.。
He lifts his voice.。
The earth melts.。
The Lord Almighty is with us.。
The God of Jacob is our fortress.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Then verse eight and following.。
Come and see the works of the Lord,。
the desolation he has brought on the earth.。
He makes wars cease to the ends of the earth.。
He breaks the bow and shatters the spear.。
He burns the shields with fire.。
Be still and know that I am God.。
I will be exalted among the nations.。
I will be exalted in the earth.。
The Lord Almighty is with us.。
The God of Jacob is our fortress.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Well, this psalm has three stanzas。
and there are three points I wanna share with you.。
The first point is to trust in God.。
Trust in God for his protection.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So here you can see from verse one to three,。
you're gonna pay attention。
to the geographic descriptions here。
from verse one to verse three.。
And you can see there are a lot of highlights here.。
There are geographical names.。
Mentions the earth, the mountains, the hills, and the water.。
And seems to be the focus on the water。
and the chaos.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So why water?。
You know, in the ancient East,。
when people thought about this world,。
they were not talking about science.。
They were thinking of this world。
and trying to conceptualize this world。
being surrounded by water, by chaos, by chaotic waters.。
And whoever can hold back the water up there。
and down there and create this bubble for us,。
create this world, this dry ground for us。
and divide the waters.。
And this is the guy we should worship.。
And this is the guy who has the most power.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then, you know, the Babylonian myth。
called creation epic,。
it mentions a force God called Marduk.。
And Marduk is the biggest God,。
the greatest God in the Babylonian pantheon.。
And he is the young God who defeats the water.。
It's called Tiamat, the sea goddess.。
And he divided her and put half of his water up there,。
supporting the sky and the heaven.。
And half of her body, after he killed the water,。
and to subdue it under his feet。
and create a dry ground.。
And then he rules over the gods。
and put order in the cosmos。
and create a city, the greatest city of Babylon.。
And he became the final authority of the entire cosmos.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Now you may remember chapter one of Genesis, right?。
Now Genesis, when it talks about the creation of the cosmos,。
it did not begin with nothing.。
So it's not really creation out of nothing in Genesis one.。
It begins with water and chaos.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And again, it's not talking about natural sciences.。
It's talking about theology.。
It talks about God taking control。
using familiar concepts to the ancient people.。
And he, God himself, the only creator,。
he divide the waters and hold them back.。
And that shows the power of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So the same thing here in the psalm,。
in the first three verses,。
the writer is trying to use the same language。
and same idea to tell us to declare the power of God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then second point here is that。
the psalm is trying to tell you。
that you have to focus on the presence,。
the dwelling of God.。
Now, when we read four to seven,。
you find that it's describing a city, right?。
It's describing a city.。
Now we all have certain cities in mind。
when you think of your home city。
or some of the places that brings you memory。
or security or identity.。
It may be Beijing, may be Hong Kong,。
may be Chicago, or may be your home city.。
Some sort of city that feels like home.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And for the people of God in the Old Testament especially,。
the key city is which one?。
Jerusalem, right?。
And Jerusalem is also called Zion, right?。
So Zion, Mount Zion, is actually Jerusalem.。
They are the same.。
And that is why some of the psalms。
are called Songs of Zion.。
Songs of Zion, praising the city of Zion.。
And Psalm 46 is actually one of the Zion songs.。
And because this city is worthy of our praise。
and our attention because God dwells in the midst of Zion.。
And God's people do not need to fear.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Well, let's read the four to seven here.。
There is a river whose stream make glad the city of God,。
which is Jerusalem, Zion,。
the holy place where the most high dwells.。
God is within her and she will not fall.。
And God will help her at the break of day.。
Nations are in uproar, kingdoms rise and fall,。
and he lifts his voice and the earth melts.。
The Lord Almighty is with us.。
The God of Jacob is our fortress.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So I mentioned the Babylonian creation story。
is also called Enuma Elish,。
where the great God Marduk defeated the chaotic water。
and then divided and established the universe.。
And Marduk also built a holy city.。
And for the Babylonian religion,。
it is the building of Babylon, the holy city.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And, but here it's talking about Yahweh, the true God.。
And after he subdued the water,。
he established the city, Jerusalem, of course, right?。
That is the true city of God.。
And you note that all the geographic images。
being mentioned in verses one to three, the first stanza,。
here are also repeated.。
And all the imageries are also kind of,。
we call in this second stanzas, four to seven,。
but everything is reversed.。
Can you see that?。
All the chaos that was mentioned in verses one to three。
are now changed into peaceful pictures.。
There's a river coming out of the temple。
and God is in the midst, God is present.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
So you can kind of tell from four to seven,。
the movement of imageries go into total opposite direction.。
It moves from chaos, mountains shaking in the sea,。
water roaring and forming to calm a river with streams.。
And these are the imageries that we call the temple,。
the dwelling place of God in Jerusalem.。
When we worship, when we worship together,。
we affirm the presence of God, that has never changed.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Some years ago, I received an email,。
I heard a story about a Christian woman in Syria.。
And as you can kind of recall some of the history,。
recent history, that ISIS was destroying many lives.。
And then some missionaries visit a village。
and met this woman, this Christian woman.。
And they saw the name of Jesus being posted in her home。
on almost every wall inside her house.。
And this is one of the ways she coped。
with the terror brought by ISIS.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And when she was terrified, she was trying to calm。
the fear in her heart.。
And that's why she put the name of Jesus in Arabic,。
of course, on every wall in the house.。
And she believed there was a power,。
there was a power in name of Jesus.。
And the fear is will, of course,。
you're not gonna deny the fear,。
but fear can be brought under control,。
especially under the name of Jesus.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And then the third point here from verses eight to 11,。
it tells you to be still before God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And eight to 11, let me conclude。
by reading the last few verses.。
Come and see the works of the Lord,。
the desolation he has brought on the earth.。
He makes war cease.。
To the ends of the earth, he breaks the bow。
and shatters the spear, and he burns the shields with fire.。
Be still and know that I am God.。
I will be exalted among the nations.。
I will be exalted in the earth.。
The Lord Almighty is with us.。
The God of Jacob is our fortress.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
See, when you're in panic mode,。
I'm not sure you can recall some of the memories,。
some of the experiences that you had。
when you were in panic mode.。
It feels like chaos to you, right?。
And this little story has to do with me.。
This happened to me last Friday night.。
My wife called me, and she said she was on the highway,。
and one of her tires got flat,。
and she was trying to bring students home,。
but she could not drive anymore.。
So I received a call and tried to rush。
out of the church building and go into my car。
and then try to rush to her,。
and I also called my son and yelled at my son,。
and I said, "Son, you have to go.。
"You have to go with me, okay?。
"Wherever you are, just drop everything。
"and go and rescue your mom, okay?"。
So I drove a couple blocks, and then I find that。
I lost my phone.。
Where is my iPhone?。
I tried to search my pockets,。
all the pockets of the jacket, all the pockets of my pants,。
and I tried to look for my phone.。
I could not find it, and I was really, really。
in a panic mode, and I was so,。
I guess I was so angry.。
I was so angry with me, and I was so angry with the iPhone.。
And I met someone at the door of the church,。
and Chi-Mei, Chi-Mei's one of the worship leaders,。
and then it's very interesting.。
Chi-Mei talked to me and said, "Pastor Mark, calm down."。
And then she had me log into the Find Me app。
and tried to ring the phone, you know.。
And then, you know where the phone is?。
In my pocket, yeah, in my pocket.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And at that moment, I really experienced,。
you know, the panic mode really took over me.。
You know, in fear, in chaos.。
And we had some MBTI, you know, you heard about MBTI, right?。
MBTI personality test.。
We have some sort of workshops in the past weekend,。
and I realized myself that when I am under stress,。
my feelings can take over.。
I got frustrated, and that night, you know,。
that night, Friday night, I was in panic mode,。
and everything fell out of control.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And let me tell you another story about fear.。
Some years ago, I got a call from a young adult woman,。
and she called me and cried out,。
because she has lost $4,000 to $5,000.。
And what happened was that she received a call。
from so-called IRS.。
So IRS called her and said,。
oh, you have not been reporting your taxes。
for, you know, so many years,。
and that's why you own IRS for $4,000 to $5,000,。
and this is what you need to do.。
And that caller, the scam caller,。
told her to go to the Apple Store,。
to go to Apple Store and get gift cards。
of worth of $4,000 to $5,000.。
You know, you know how many gift cards you have to get?。
And she was in panic mode because she,。
she remembered she had not been reporting the tax, right?。
That's why you need to file your taxes, right?。
And then she was in panic mode, and she went to,。
indeed, she went to the Apple Store。
and got $4,000 to $5,000 worth of gift cards.。
You know, how many gift cards were there?。
And brought all gift cards home,。
and then, you know, swiped the code,。
and one by one, she told the code,。
the code, the secret code to the caller,。
and gave the caller the money.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
See, if she was not in panic mode,。
she could have called someone who can trust, right?。
And, you know, try to find out more information.。
It was a scam, right?。
But, you know, when fear takes over,。
then we do all sorts of irrational action.。
You know, when the people of God live in Jerusalem,。
they often, living in fear,。
military attacks from other empires,。
Assyria or Egyptian empire,。
in their fear, sometimes they panic,。
and they ran after the false gods。
and false ideologies to solve the problem.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And the Psalm 46 is trying to declare to us,。
God is still in control.。
That's why you need to run to God。
instead of having fear taking over you.。
You know, last week, many people watched this guy。
climbing, you know, Taipei 101.。
Did you see that on Netflix?。
Maybe you heard about it, heard about this story.。
Alex Hono, he's the most famous。
free solo climber in the world.。
He climbed Yosemite Half Dome。
and all these tall buildings.。
And, you know, last week, he took 90 minutes。
to climb from ground level。
all the way to the top of Taipei 101.。
And you can see that it can illustrate。
the picture of, you know, handling fear or managing fear.。
And the danger is real, but he prepares with great care.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And I find that some of the comments。
are really, really interesting about, you know, this story.。
As you can see, he is climbing the building bare hands.。
No safety net or any kind.。
Just climb and climb and climb.。
And some of the comments, I find it very, very interesting.。
You know, people say he is not fearless.。
He's not fearless, but he is so prepared。
that he will not die.。
And then some of the people said, you know,。
we often say we step out of our comfort zone, right?。
We have to challenge ourselves。
to step out of our comfort zone.。
But for Alex, it's a totally different thing.。
He said it's not stepping out of your comfort zone,。
but to expand your comfort zone.。
You know, making something uncomfortable become comfortable.。
And, you know, some of the comments says what you did,。
what we did, what we did not see was thousands。
and millions times that he repeated the same moves.。
The moves of, you know, grabbing something。
or stepping on something.。
Thousands of moves that we did not see.。
And some of the comments says he is not crazy.。
He is actually extremely rational。
because he practiced the same route more than 40 times.。
And he wrote down every single detail,。
all the handholds and all the footholds in his notes.。
And he studied it.。
He mentally prepared himself for that.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And Psalm 46 does the same thing.。
It does not pretend that the world is not shaking.。
The world indeed sometimes feel like falling。
and the nations are raging.。
Psalm 46 is not trying to deny all this fears。
and chaos in our lives.。
But, you know, the people of God in Jerusalem,。
they face very many fear and threats every day.。
And it was natural for Israel to trust their own strength,。
to trust their own power,。
their own economic or military power.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
However, the Psalm tells you to shift your attention。
from fear to the power of God, the presence of God,。
so that your heart can be still。
because the Lord Almighty is with us.。
And when we trust this,。
we have a different postures to live.。
You know, we live differently.。
We will choose peace.。
We will choose justice.。
We will choose kindness.。
And we will seek first the kingdom of God.。
That is your basic postures change.。
Your mindset will change and we shape your priority.。
We shape your values.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Well, let me conclude with three points here.。
Maybe you can take home with this three points.。
First, is to pray first and then act secondly.。
When anxiety hits us, the Psalm says,。
"Run to God before you run into trouble."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Solutions, maybe a sentence prayer,。
"Lord, be my refuge at this point.。
"Be my strength right now."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And secondly, you can practice stillness every day.。
You know, just like Alex practiced thousands of times,。
every foothold and handhold.。
We, in our soul, we need practice.。
You know, take at least 60 seconds or a few minutes a day.。
You know, practice, be still in the presence of God.。
Put your phone down, turn off your computer,。
breathe slowly, surrender yourself,。
and say to God, "You are God.。
"I trust in you."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And third, to live the Psalm as a witness in our lives.。
You can repeat the chorus every day,。
the chorus being, "The Lord of hosts is with you.。
"Be still and know that I am God."。
Choose to repeat the chorus and choose to choose one action。
that will show the stillness and the peace that we have.。
Maybe speak to one another gently.。
You know, sometimes we get tensions in our family。
with relationships, with just the chaotic world.。
We can act gently, with kindness,。
to show that, you know, the Lord is in control.。
The Lord of hosts is with us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Amen. - Amen.。
- Let's pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Father, you are our refuge and our strength,。
a very present help in trouble.。
Our heart race and our minds feel like chaos.。
So bring us back into your presence。
and teach us to be still and to know that you,。
you alone are our God.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And help us to practice peace this week.。
Slow us down and lead us into praying first.。
And we shape our words and our actions。
with gentleness and kindness.。
Make our homes, our church, a place of calm faith。
so that other people can see that the Lord of hosts。
is with us, you are with us.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- And in Jesus' name, we pray.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
- Amen.。
