(audience applauding)。
- Thank you, good morning to all of you guys.。
And for those who are sitting here,。
those who are watching, my name is Tommy Lee.。
It is always an honor to really be here。
with all of you guys.。
I graduated from business school,。
and then from that point, I spent about 10 years。
building cell towers, and that's what I thought。
I was gonna do all my life.。
Then from that point, I was a pastor for about three years,。
actually working in a Korean church.。
And I was there, I realized,。
and Pastor Mark does a great job as a pastor,。
I realized being called to be a pastor。
just wasn't something that God was calling me to do.。
I love the Lord, I wasn't called to be a pastor.。
And then after that, I got hired at this big Bible institute。
called Moody Bible Institute here in the city.。
So I worked for the president's office, Dr. Michael Easley,。
I said, "Okay, this is what you're calling me to do, Lord."。
And I realized, after spending about four years there。
working with the bigger ministry, it was very top-down,。
it probably wasn't for me as well, too.。
And so when Dr. Easley transitioned out,。
I transitioned out with him.。
So now these days, I get a chance, I realize,。
I fit in this thing where I could do multiple things.。
We started Resource Global that works。
with young Christian marketplace leaders。
in Singapore, in Malaysia, in Nairobi, in South Africa,。
and Austin, Texas, and also in Indonesia.。
Now I also then got hired to work with Northern Seminary,。
where I get a chance to partner with Pastor Mark。
under the Growth Center for Church and Missions,。
their executive director.。
Then I got hired by Family Foundation。
to run Together LA initiative over in Los Angeles,。
and most recently as the managing director。
of the Wheaton Center for Faith and Innovation。
at Wheaton College.。
And I realized I actually do better。
when I could run four different things versus one thing.。
And all of us are wired differently.。
All of us are in a journey.。
I think from what I heard from James last week,。
the speaker talked about what does it mean。
to give of your life, to give of your treasures,。
both financially as well as your time.。
Today, we're gonna talk about a story。
that I have loved and I've come to love,。
and it's the story of Gideon in Judges chapter six.。
I hope that you guys have not heard。
about this passage recently, and I'm repeating again,。
but man, I love diving in this story。
because it's a reminder of how God uses ordinary people。
like you and me to do extraordinary things.。
So let's dive in the story of Gideon.。
In Judges chapter six, verse one,。
it begins in verse one, "The people of Israel。
"did what was evil in the sight of the Lord."。
And you're gonna find in the book of Judges,。
that's a theme over and over again.。
The Israelites are always doing what was evil。
in the eyes of the Lord.。
They're always getting in trouble.。
They're always doing something that forces,。
no matter what God has done to them,。
from the days of Moses to the days of Joshua,。
and judge after judge, you see the same theme。
over and over again, that the people of Israel。
did what was evil in the sight of the Lord.。
"And the Lord gave them into the hand of Midian。
"for seven years," I'm reading out the ESV.。
"And the hand of Midian overpowered Israel.。
"And because of Midian, the people of Israel。
"made for themselves the dens that are in the mountains。
"and the caves and the strongholds."。
They had nowhere to turn, they just hid there.。
"For whenever the Israelite planted crops,"。
whenever it was harvest time,。
whenever they knew it was harvest time,。
"the Midianites and the Amalekites,"。
not just the Midianites,。
but they brought along the Amalekites,。
"and the people of the east will come up against them."。
So already they're scared, already they're hiding in caves,。
already they're hiding in all of these different things.。
Harvest time, they're invaded by the Midianites,。
the Amalekites, and all the people in the east.。
"They would encamp against them。
"and devour the produce of the land as far as Gaza,。
"and leave no sustenance in Israel,。
"and no sheep or ox or donkey.。
"For they would come up with their livestock in their tents.。
"They would," I love this description,。
"come like locusts in number,。
"both they and their camels could not be counted,。
"so that they laid waste the land as they came in.。
"And Israel was brought very low because of Midian,。
"and the people of Israel cried out for help to the Lord."。
In today's culture, we see a little bit of that, don't we?。
We see recently a lot of times the terror。
or the violence that's happening,。
and I am, here we go, in Russia and the Ukraine.。
You see the huge city or huge country that we see in Russia.。
You see tiny Ukraine that was once a part。
of the Soviet Union, the USSR back in the '80s.。
You see Russia trying to put together。
the former Soviet Union and trying to exert their power.。
They are already overrun and captured Georgia quietly.。
And now here, Ukraine, right before they became,。
they applied to be members of NATO.。
Here they are, and for the last month,。
they're bombing, they're bombarding all of these things.。
Take a look at this map here and there.。
Look at what they're trying to do.。
And for them, it's a show of power.。
And it reminds me of the Midianites.。
Here the Israelites are sitting there,。
hiding in their strongholds, hiding in their caves,。
and they are overrun by an enemy that's far larger to them.。
It is a show of power.。
We see this clearly here in Russia。
with these pictures here and there.。
It is Putin, their president,。
and that big table symbolizes how he perceives power,。
that there is a distance to how he sees power.。
And it shows that I am in charge。
and you have to submit to me.。
And when we look at this particular thing,。
God gave the Israelites into the hands of the Midianites.。
And why is that?。
Because God uses events in our lives to get our attention.。
There's sometimes in the midst of God calling us。
in our lives, we go in a misdirection, we get distracted.。
We start giving into our own personal agenda.。
We start doing the things we wanna do because it's my life.。
I've worked hard, it's my decision.。
No one could tell me what to do.。
I dictate, it's all about me.。
But when we become Christ followers,。
that rule is out the window.。
Our life is no longer ours.。
Our decisions are no longer ours.。
But we submitted to the gospel, we submitted to the cross.。
And along the way, God uses events in our life。
in order to get our attention, to bring us back to him.。
And we see this clearly when he gives them。
to the hands of the Midianites。
because they keep turning their life to the Lord.。
And sometimes in the midst of our life,。
God loves you so much.。
God loves and wants the best for you。
that he will use hard times and trials in your life。
to turn you over to him.。
All of us will deal with trials in our life.。
It is not a matter of if, but rather a matter of when。
that God uses those trials to turn our life.。
And for the Israelites, it had gotten to the point。
that they were so low because of Midian。
and the people of Israel cried out for help in the Lord.。
When the people of Israel cried out to the Lord。
on the count of the Midianites,。
the Lord sent a prophet to the people of Israel.。
And he said to them, "Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel.。
"I led you up from Egypt."。
This is what I did from you.。
"I brought you out of the house of bondage.。
"And I delivered you from the hands of the Egyptians。
"and from the hands who had oppressed you。
"and drove them out before you and gave you their land.。
"And I said to you, I am the Lord, your God.。
"You shall not fear the gods of the Amorites。
"in whose land you dwell,。
"but you have not obeyed my voice."。
Here's a key one, verse 11.。
Pay attention to this one。
because I really want you to focus on this.。
"Now the angel of the Lord came and sat。
"under the terebinth at Opera,。
"which belonged to Joash the Abysserite,。
"while his son Gideon was beating out by impress。
"to hide it from the Midianites.。
"And the angel of the Lord appeared to him。
"and said to him, the Lord is with you.。
"Oh, mighty man of valor."。
If you have the NIV, it says mighty warrior.。
If you have a pen, if you highlight things in your Bible,。
you take this right away and you highlight it.。
And you remember this verse because when you look at this。
and God calls him a mighty man of valor,。
already you're sitting there,。
wait, what in the world is this?。
That doesn't make any sense.。
Why is that?。
Let me show you something.。
Pastor Mark, let me just say this.。
You teach this class, right?。
All right, mighty warrior, look at this.。
When the angel of the Lord, NIV says mighty warrior.。
Take a look at this.。
Pastor Mark, you teach a class on archeology.。
He probably knows this a lot more.。
I've been to Israel once in my life,。
but it was through that experience,。
I learned so much.。
So let me explain to you the situation。
that is happening, right?。
It is harvest time.。
And now when the wheat and grain。
and everything's ready to be harvested,。
you bring all of that, you use your sickle。
and you cut out all of the wheat。
and you bring it to what they call as a threshing floor.。
As you could see, it is out in open air.。
It is usually on top of a hill.。
It's usually in an open area,。
in like a little hill area where the wind can blow。
and you lay everything out.。
If you look at the picture, you see some of the oxen。
or some people will use a little hammer called flail.。
And you're sitting there knocking。
or you have your oxen, your horses step all over it.。
At that point in time, it separates the husk。
as well as the grain and it just separates it.。
Then from that point on,。
you use what they call a windowing fork.。
It's a big rake.。
And you've seen pictures of this.。
You take it and you lift it up as high as you can.。
It's hard work.。
The chaff is blown from the wind and everything like that。
and it blows in the air.。
The husk, which is heavier, fall in one pile.。
The grain falls in another pile.。
And so as a result, you have to understand。
the threshing floor has to be out in the open air.。
But where is Gideon?。
Gideon is in a wine press.。
You're wondering, so what's wrong with that?。
Let me show you a picture of what the wine press looks like.。
This is the wine press.。
I get to the Garden of Gethsemane, right?。
And it's a garden, no, it is a tomb.。
The tomb where Jesus is buried.。
And there right in front is this wine press.。
And I didn't understand what a wine press is。
until I saw this picture.。
And the story of Gideon made so much sense.。
Here's what happens in the wine press.。
Right there on the top, they lay out all of the grapes.。
From that point on, you see that hole。
that leads all the way to the bottom.。
And that path then leads to another hole,。
which there's a bunch of jars or what they called cisterns.。
Once you lay out all the grapes, it's about waist high.。
Mark, I hope you're gonna have to correct me。
and let me know if I'm wrong later on.。
And from that point, you lay out all the grapes。
and you step on it.。
I've seen pictures where there's a contraption on top。
and you hold onto it,。
and you just keep stepping on all of the grapes.。
And then eventually all of the juice flows。
from down that corridor and into what they call a cistern.。
And so what's the picture of this?。
It is this.。
The angel of the Lord calls him a mighty warrior.。
He is not a mighty warrior.。
Because when you read this passage, you're sitting there,。
Lord, are you sure you have the right picture correct?。
Do you not know where Gideon is?。
He's threshing wheat, not on the threshing floor,。
but in the wine press.。
And you know why he's in the wine press?。
Because he's afraid.。
Because he's a coward.。
Because he's running away from the Midianites。
so that no one sees him.。
Are you sure you have the right person, Lord?。
Mighty warrior?。
Mighty man of valor?。
I'm seeing a coward here.。
And why is that?。
God's picture of me is different than the picture。
I have of myself or that others have of me.。
God's picture of me is different than the picture。
that sometimes I have of myself。
or the picture that I have, that others have of me.。
Let me give you an example of what I mean by this.。
All of you guys have probably watched this movie, right?。
All of us are familiar, Avengers Endgame,。
and we're sitting there and they go meet Thor。
and we're expecting the God of Thunder,。
the one that we were familiar with all of the movies。
coming out and what do we see?。
Fat Thor playing video games.。
And you're sitting there, what in the world happened?。
Because he had given up hope.。
He was done.。
But something saw Thor as the adventure that he was,。
the hero that he was.。
Because deep inside, and you saw that encounter。
with his mother, there was a hero,。
despite a person who gave up hope.。
Sometimes we do feel like a fat Thor.。
Sometimes we are scared.。
Sometimes how we perceive ourselves。
is different than how others perceive us.。
Sometimes how others perceive us is different。
than how God perceives us.。
For us, we see fat Thor.。
God sees a mighty man of valor.。
God sees in Gideon, not someone who's scared,。
not someone who's a coward,。
not someone who's trying to escape.。
What he sees in Gideon is a mighty warrior,。
the one who's gonna lead his people there,。
the one who's gonna battle against him.。
Let's keep going on.。
And so he calls them, and here's the next part that I love.。
And the angel of the Lord appeared to him and says to him,。
Lord is with you, almighty man of valor.。
And Gideon said to him, please serve.。
If the Lord is with us,。
then why then has all of this happened to us?。
And where are all his wonderful deeds。
that our fathers recounted to us saying,。
did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt?。
But now the Lord has forsaken us。
and given us into the hands of Midian.。
Underline this one as well too, verse 14.。
And the Lord turned to him and said,。
go in this might of yours,。
and Gideon, I want you to save Israel。
from the hand of Midian.。
Do not I send you.。
And he said to him, please, Lord, how can I save Israel?。
But behold, my clan is the weakest in man's sight.。
So out of all the clans, Lord, my clan is the weakest.。
And I am the least in my father's house.。
So pretty much what you're telling me, Gideon,。
is out of all the clans, your clan is the weakest,。
and you're the weakest one in your clan.。
That's what you're telling me, right?。
So you know where that makes Gideon?。
Dead last.。
He's the weakest person in the weakest clan.。
Not very good.。
And you're using him to lead the charge。
to battle the Midianites.。
Powerful statement, next thing.。
And the Lord said to him, but I will be with you.。
And you shall strike the Midianites as one man.。
And he said to him, if now I have found favor in your eyes,。
oh wait, and I am the least in my father's house,。
and the Lord said to him, but I will be with you,。
and you shall strike the Midianites as one man.。
So what the Lord is saying is,。
he comes to him and he says, okay, I am the weakest clan,。
and I am the weakest in the weakest clan.。
And you know what the Lord says to him?。
He doesn't disagree with him.。
He doesn't tell him, you know,。
no, you're not the weakest clan.。
So-and-so is weaker than you.。
Here's what you have.。
Well, your clan's not the weakest clan.。
Your clan's pretty good.。
No, he doesn't disagree with him.。
In fact, he actually kind of agrees with him.。
It's like you and I are saying, right?。
A lot of times is we talk, you guys talked last week。
about what it means to give God our time and our treasures.。
It's like when you and I are sitting there,。
Lord, I'm not sure if I could serve you。
because I'm not smart enough.。
That sometimes is our excuse.。
I'm not talented enough, right?。
I'm not as strong as that particular person.。
I can't be as charismatic.。
I'm not very good in public like that.。
I'm very shy.。
And it's, God is saying, I know.。
I'm not disagreeing with you, I know.。
I know you're probably not the smartest person in the room.。
I know probably you're not the most talented person。
in the room.。
I know so-and-so probably is better up front than you.。
I know you're probably shy.。
I know.。
I know all these things.。
You know why?。
Because I created you.。
And when I created you, I gave you those skills.。
And when I created you, I made you different.。
I made you unique.。
I know.。
Get in, I know you're the weakest clan.。
I know you're the weakest of the weakest clan.。
I know all these things because I put you there.。
Because when you were born, before you were born,。
before any of us were born, I designed you。
and I mapped out your life.。
I know exactly what you're capable of.。
But here's the thing, and underline this,。
but I will be with you.。
And that's the difference.。
I want you to do that.。
I know what your deficiencies are.。
But when I call you, I will be with you.。
And that becomes the key.。
It won't be easy.。
It's not gonna be always very fun to obey my will.。
It's not always gonna be smooth sailing all the time.。
But I see you differently than how you see yourself。
and how others see you.。
I see you as a mighty man of valor, a mighty warrior.。
And I'm calling you to fight the Midianites.。
And I realize you're the weakest clan.。
I realize you're the weakest in your weakest clan,。
but I will be with you.。
And that's where all of us needs to stop and think,。
what does God want you to do in your life?。
And what is holding you back?。
Because all of us have insecurities.。
All of us have struggles.。
All of us have doubts.。
But what is God saying to us?。
And how do we begin to walk confidently?。
Knowing it may not be easy, but walk confidently。
because that's what God has called him.。
Which leads us to the next portion, all right?。
Next portion is this.。
And so later that night,。
he calls him and let's go over to verse 25.。
That night he prepares,。
and here's the, I think the most important part of it.。
That night the Lord said to him,。
"I want you Gideon to take your father's bull。
and the second bull seven years old.。
And I want you to pull down the altar of bow。
that your father has。
and cut down the Asherah pole that is beside it.。
And I want you to build an altar to the Lord your God。
on the top of the stronghold here."。
And here's what it looks like with the Asherah pole.。
Asherah pole.。
And so what God is saying to this,。
"Lord Gideon, I see you threshing wheat in the wine press.。
I want you to fight the Midianites.。
I want you to lead the charge.。
But before you do, before I send you to battle,。
I need you to tear down that altar.。
I need you to put the proper altar in its place.。
I need you to tear down that altar.。
I need to build a proper altar。
that honors the Lord in all that you do."。
That's what I want you to do before you go out to battle.。
If you were to apply it in our context today,。
I have a calling for you.。
I want you to do something.。
But before you do,。
we're gonna have to do some business in your life.。
I'm gonna need you to tear down some of the altars。
in our life, specifically in our hearts.。
And I'm gonna need you to put the proper altar in its place.。
I'm gonna need you to make sure that things are right.。
A lot of times within the altar is within our hearts.。
There is no big altar that we have。
that we all go to like we have with the temple.。
That altar is in the life.。
God establishes that altar in our life.。
And I have a plan for you.。
I need you to establish the proper altar in its place.。
What do I mean about that?。
I love the fact that God has a plan for us.。
But frankly speaking, all of us struggles with heart issues.。
And I probably was shared a little bit。
about this in the past.。
All of us have heart issues in our life.。
All of us struggle with skeletons in our closet.。
The majority of the group here are Chinese.。
I see our two Caucasian friends in here.。
And I find that Caucasians are very vulnerable。
in their life.。
Asians tend to be very private for the majority,。
especially if you're older, you're very private.。
You don't let people hear, you don't show vulnerability.。
I find our Caucasian friends are more so vulnerable.。
And we like things and we wanna have this appearance。
that we have.。
And so we live with what we call a shadow mission.。
That our shadow and how we live our life。
are two separate things.。
Our shadow reflects who we truly are.。
But on the outside, we try to pretend。
like we're someone different.。
We try to show people the persona or personality。
we want them to see, which is so different。
than what we struggle on the inside.。
Some of the four or five basic heart issues。
that some of us have.。
Before God could use you,。
he wants you to deal with some of these issues in your life.。
That some of you are sitting here right now。
and you're dealing with the issue of guilt.。
That there are things in your life。
that nobody knows that you've done.。
And only you know.。
You've hidden it pretty well from different people.。
Maybe a thought, maybe something you've done,。
something it is and it bothers you.。
God wants you to learn to deal with that guilt.。
He wants you to learn the power of confessing your sin.。
The power of allowing him to take away that guilt。
that is eating up your life all the time.。
For some, it's the power of anger.。
There is anger that you have because of a parent,。
a sibling, a friend, something that happened。
at work, you got bypassed for a job, whatever it is.。
You feel like you got a short end of the stick,。
whatever it is, you're dealing with that anger.。
Maybe greed.。
Maybe it's greed that you're dealing with.。
It's all about me.。
I need my money, I want to be successful.。
I want to have lots of money, I want that Tesla.。
I want that home, I want that, maybe it's greed.。
I want my crypto to grow huge.。
And then once I get so much money,。
God, I'll come and satisfy you because I need to work life,。
I need to provide for my family.。
It's that greed that over, and when you're sitting there。
listening to sermons about giving of God。
or your story, you're sitting there, yeah, I'll do it,。
but I got to make sure I take care of myself first.。
Guilt, anger, greed, maybe it's jealousy.。
Why does so-and-so always get the benefit of doubt?。
(thuds)。
Why does so-and-so always seem to get。
the great opportunities and work?。
Why does so-and-so get this,。
or why does my sibling get this and that?。
Maybe it's jealousy.。
And you're struggling with that because you're sitting there,。
why do I get the short end of the stick?。
Or maybe it's judgment.。
Judgment of how you perceive people of different color,。
how you perceive different people that you struggle with,。
judgment toward other people that you see in your family,。
whatever it is.。
Which one is it?。
All of us struggle at one point with each one of these.。
For me in my life, I've watched this destroy my family。
in a great deal.。
I have a twin brother and I have a younger sister.。
I see my twin brother a lot, he lives in Phoenix, Arizona。
with his three kids and Sarah, his wife.。
My younger sister is two years younger than me.。
I haven't seen her in 15 years.。
She stopped calling our home 15 years ago.。
She got into it with my mom 15 years ago.。
And that anger between her and my mom never subsided.。
She walked away from home, never to come back.。
I haven't seen her in any Christmas gatherings,。
any holiday gatherings.。
When my two daughters were born, never got a note.。
When I was sick in bed with cancer, never heard from her.。
Because she can't let that anger go away.。
Because why?。
My mom deals with that anger.。
My mom growing up as a hardworking Chinese immigrant。
in 1972 came from China and when she came in here,。
she had nothing and she had to start all over.。
And there was so much anger and resentment that she had。
that she never can let go of that anger.。
And that anger, she took it out on us as kids growing up.。
She was always hard on us.。
It was never enough.。
That A that we got, you better make it A plus.。
That B you got, you're grounded.。
That belt or that hanger, pick one.。
We always had to do that.。
The anger and my sister was never able to let it go.。
I deal with that anger as well too.。
I struggle with that anger.。
I could fool you people easily.。
I'm 44 years old.。
I look decently well.。
I dress nice, I have a successful career.。
But inwardly, I struggle with that anger.。
I grew up and we are in church here in the Bridgeport area。
where a lot of times there's a lot of diversity.。
I came here, I was born in '77,。
came to Chinatown and Bridgeport.。
And in my school at Robert Healy,。
I was probably one of only five Chinese kids in that school.。
For years, I was chased after,。
I remember there was some Caucasian kids。
that would chase us down the block all the time.。
They would just beat us up all the time.。
Everywhere I go and every street I turn,。
I still remember when I was in fourth grade,。
there was this eighth grader。
who just wanted to pick on us all the time.。
I went to one street, he found the stair.。
Went to another street, found the stair.。
It was rough when you're the only Chinese kid。
in the community.。
I still remember there was just one guy。
who would ride on his bike。
and just pick on all the Chinese kids in the community.。
I grew up a little chubby,。
I grew up not always being very smart.。
And I heard the conversations, my sister was brilliant.。
Perfect SAT, perfect ACT, perfect grades,。
straight A's, never got a B,。
went to Yale, got perfect score there.。
I struggled with school.。
I had to work hard for my school.。
And I always heard people say,。
"Hey, you're not as smart as your older brother.。
"You're not as smart as your younger brother."。
And I was made fun of at school。
because I was kind of chubby at that point in time.。
And that made me live with self-esteem issues,。
which eventually became anger.。
And I always lived with that anger。
where I wanted to prove people wrong.。
I wanted to stick it to them。
and show them and do things.。
As I grew in my faith,。
I had to come before the Lord and say,。
"Lord, where's my heart?。
"Lord, what do I need to do to lay it before the cross?。
"Lord, what does it mean to have my heart come before you?"。
I had to learn slowly and slowly to lay it down.。
Every day in my life, I still remember all the voices,。
all the people who said I couldn't do it.。
I still remember their faces.。
That's still there.。
But it's a choice I have to make every single day to say,。
"Lord, give me the strength to do what is right.。
"Allow my heart to continue to honor you。
"in everything I do."。
Because God wants you to tear down that altar。
and put the proper altar in its place.。
God's picture of you is different。
than the picture you have of yourself。
and that others have of you.。
God's picture of you is different.。
He sees in Gideon a mighty man of valor, a mighty warrior.。
What does he see in you compared to what you see in yourself?。
Go in the strength that you have,。
whatever you are,。
because I designed you with your strengths。
and your weaknesses.。
Go in the strength that you have,。
and I will be with you.。
I'm gonna be with you.。
May not be easy, may not go smoothly,。
but I'm gonna be with you.。
But before you do,。
put the proper altar in its place.。
Tear down the altar。
and put the proper altar in its place.。
God uses ordinary people to do his extraordinary work.。
God uses ordinary people to do his extraordinary work.。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you for this church.。
Thank you for the people who are sitting here.。
Thank you for the people who are watching online,。
wherever they are in the world.。
Allow us to hear you, Father.。
Allow us to walk with you.。
Allow us to continue to understand the vision。
that you have for us,。
to listen, to hear the vision,。
and continue to follow you,。
to understand that you have a calling.。
Despite our inefficiencies, despite our baggage,。
you are there with us.。
But more so, Lord, I pray for our heart issues。
that with people here in this room.。
We pray with some of them who are struggling。
with the guilt or the anger or the jealousy or the greed,。
I pray that you would do surgery in their lives.。
And allow us as we wrestle with those。
to have the courage, the strong strength from you。
to follow after you.。
