Yeah, do let me know if you're interested,。
join the retreat and it's gonna be a fun time。
and if there are enough people going,。
we're gonna make this happen, okay?。
Why don't we say hi to your neighbors, okay?。
Just say hi, you know, yeah.。
Say good morning and welcome,。
some of those friends in our midst.。
We continue with our series on worship。
and we learn how to be better worshiper.。
And this pretty long series, this is part seven already.。
And remember the list of things that I present to you。
from the Bible, if we try to summarize。
what worship is all about and all the elements。
or aspects of worship.。
This list, by the way, is not an exhaustive list。
of things we do in worship。
and should not be used mechanically。
because the Bible lays down general principle,。
basic principles for us to practice our worship together,。
but not the details.。
And so often the details are dictated。
by the local community or local faith, family,。
churches or even generation.。
But we need to learn how to become a better worshiper。
and that is a central question for the entire series.。
And let me ask you this question,。
are you becoming a better worshiper?。
Are you becoming a better worshiper?。
Week after week, you know, Sunday is our Shabbat, right?。
Sunday is kind of our big day and the first day of the week.。
We come to give God our worship and our offering.。
And are we becoming better worshiper?。
And that's the central question we need to ask ourselves.。
And today we need to learn how to sing songs, okay?。
How to understand songs.。
There are so many elements we can add。
to the list of worship here.。
However, I think the main thing,。
there's a main element that we cannot miss。
in our weekly worship, in our Sunday worship。
is the songs, the poems, the lyrics,。
the hymns that we use to sing to God。
and to offer our worship together.。
And let me tell you my personal story.。
I'm quite surprised that many churches today,。
or at least some of the churches,。
you know, a good number of churches。
are still struggling with using old hymns。
and new praise songs, right?。
And many churches are still debating this issue.。
And I'm pretty surprised because, you know,。
I'm quite old, okay?。
I'm quite old compared to many of you guys.。
I remember back in the '80s, 1980s, can you believe that?。
1980s, where are you?。
Probably not born, right?。
Right, but you know, I've been going to churches。
for many decades.。
1980s is 40 years ago, right?。
The 1980s when I was so much younger, so much younger,。
churches had huge debates on the use of songs, you know,。
especially use of new songs,。
contemporary praise songs, so-called.。
When the praise songs were first introduced in 1980s,。
early '80s or even late '80s,。
and those of you who are old enough。
or comparatively older,。
you still remember a music ministry called Marilyn Arthur.。
Remember that?。
Yeah?。
No, right?。
I'm one of the older guy here.。
You know, some of the songs are still around.。
Some of those songs written and composed。
by Marilyn Arthur Music Ministry are still around.。
One of those songs we have used before,。
or we have used a lot of time,。
is called "As the Deer."。
As the Deer.。
And you know the lyrics, right?。
"As the deer panted for water,。
"so my soul longed after thee."。
Right, "You alone are my heart's desire,。
"I long to worship thee."。
And "You alone my strength, my shield, and so on,。
"I long to worship thee."。
You see, this is the first,。
so-called first generation praise songs。
that have been composed and used by churches。
since the 1980s and late '80s, early '90s.。
And it became very, very popular.。
You know where this song comes from?。
The lyrics, the content?。
Which song from the Bible?。
No?。
Psalm 42, right?。
42, exactly like that, okay?。
Psalm 42.。
And even the lyrics is using some old King James English,。
right, "thee."。
Some of those words are old English words,。
older English words.。
It became very, very popular,。
and there were people who don't like this kind of songs.。
You know, and I'll tell you why.。
And because these kind of contemporary words,。
contemporary worship songs are simple, repetitive,。
and sometimes too short, right?。
And look at this song, you know, you have one verse.。
Of course you have verse two,。
somebody add verse two later,。
and then a chorus, right?。
"You alone my strength, my shield," and all that.。
But there's not much you can tell from the song itself.。
Therefore, there are people who think。
that contemporary worship songs dumbed down worship.。
Overly simplified worship, right?。
Because the songs that we use,。
or some of the songs that many modern churches are using,。
like Melanother, first generation,。
are very short and repetitive,。
and they don't cover a lot of content.。
They don't cover, definitely they don't cover。
a lot of theological or biblical content, right?。
So there's still a debate in the church,。
and some people who are like me, or even older than me,。
they would prefer the older hymns, right?。
The hymn books, traditional hymns.。
And if you check out some of the traditional hymns,。
they do present a lot of content,。
or a lot more content than Melanother,。
or contemporary praise songs.。
And check this out.。
Oh, this is one of the, if you know Mandarin,。
this is also the first generation,。
so-called first early generation of praise songs, right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Okay?。
This is actually the first one.。
The first one they wrote, and became so popular,。
and this ministry, Stream of Praise,。
has been around for, boy, for decades.。
Yeah, for decades.。
I remember my wife used to buy the CD.。
Each year they have a new album, right?。
And she would go to a Christian bookstore。
and pick up a new CD, all right?。
Every single year, and no matter if she likes the songs。
or not, she will buy a new CD, right?。
But you know what CDs are?。
You don't even know, right?。
I give you a CD, you can't even play it today, right?。
So we use Spotify, and Apple Music, and all that.。
iTunes or something.。
But this is a first generation praise song,。
and some people don't like it, because it's too simple.。
Look at the lyrics.。
There's not much there.。
It's very focused, though, right?。
Now if you check out some of the traditional hymn,。
like this one, this is a very, very popular classic。
Christian hymn, Amazing Grace.。
There are four stanzas, right?。
Four verses.。
Actually, there are six verses.。
Some versions have six verses,。
and here I present to you four verses.。
And you see how rich, in terms of content.。
These kind of traditional hymns are very, very rich,。
and teach you a lot of things.。
Verse one, Amazing Grace.。
How sweet the sound, save a wretch like me,。
was once lost, but now I'm found,。
was blind, and now I see.。
What kind of doctrine is verse one presenting?。
Forgiveness, right?。
Forgiveness in grace, right?。
My sin is forgiven.。
And then second verse,。
grace taught my heart to fear,。
my fears relieved in grace,。
and how precious did that grace appear,。
the hour, the moment I first believed in Christ.。
So stanza two present to you the doctrine of salvation,。
right, and that is salvation in grace.。
And verse three, it talks about,。
this is one of my favorite verse in the entire hymn,。
is through many dangerous toys and snares,。
I have already come, and God is leading me,。
safely in grace, and leading me home.。
And that's my life journey,。
because full of the grace of God.。
Ups and downs in my life journey, in your life journey,。
and when you sing it, when you sing stanza three,。
you realize that the song is trying to tell you。
the providence of God, right?。
The guidance of God in your life journey.。
And you are kept safe because of the grace of God.。
And then the last verse,。
talks about the future.。
The future, the eternity that we share in Christ Jesus,。
and the glorious future, right?。
Someday God will appear and his kingdom will come on earth,。
and I will be God's.。
And I say to God, forever,。
I am yours and forever you are mine.。
So, it's eschatology, it's the doctrine of last things,。
right, it's something that will happen in the future,。
according to the promises of God,。
the promises of the Bible, the new creation,。
the heaven, right?。
Our true home, and we are heading there,。
and there will be forever praise.。
And as I talk through this song, this hymn,。
you see, each verse, each stanza,。
has some sort of profound theology to tell us.。
So that's why there are some people who would prefer。
using theologically rich songs,。
and the contemporary worship songs,。
they are too simple to be used in worship.。
But we have to ask the question,。
is that a biblical argument?。
Is there really no place for simple songs。
in worship services?。
Is there a place for shorter, simple songs,。
simple praise songs, like the contemporary praise songs,。
that kind of song?。
Do they have a legitimate place,。
legitimate role in our liturgy, in our worship?。
Let's turn to some of the Bible verses,。
and one of those is found in the last book of the Bible,。
the book of Revelation, chapter four.。
Chapter four, verse eight, the angels are praising God.。
You know, the apostle John who wrote the book of Revelation,。
he is being lifted up to another realm,。
you know, the heavenly realm.。
And what he sees is the heavenly worship,。
what worship truly is in eternity.。
And he found the angels are praising God,。
you know, day and night, day after day, night after night.。
They keep on saying, they keep on praising God。
with one song, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God almighty,。
the God who always was, who is, and who is still to come.。
How long is that song?。
Only two lines, right?。
And how many times are they singing it?。
Many times, day and night, right?。
They sing it 24/7, right?。
And it's very simple, very focused,。
praising God for his holiness.。
And by the way, what is holiness?。
Holiness is separate, you know,。
it's totally different from us.。
Separate from us, set apart from us,。
that is the basic meaning of holy, or holiness.。
So they're praising God being holy God,。
because he is sinless, he is separate from us.。
However, he has come to redeem us so that we can praise him.。
That's what the angels are talking about.。
The content is clear and is glorifying God.。
And then the next chapter, chapter five,。
again in the heavenly realm, you know,。
in God's realm, in God's domain,。
and the people and the angels are singing praises。
to the lamb that was slain.。
If you remember our set of worship in the beginning,。
and Josh led us to read this part of scripture,。
the angels are praising God in front of the throne。
of the lamb of God who was slain.。
And they said, they're saying,。
"You are worthy to take the scroll。
"and break a seal and open it."。
Now what does it mean breaking the seal of the scroll?。
You know, in the ancient time,。
when they write important documents,。
they would roll it up, you know, roll it up.。
In animal skin or in papyrus,。
they roll it up and then they tie it up。
and then they will have a lump of clay。
to stamp on it to seal the document.。
So whoever has that stamp, whoever has the signature,。
has the authority to open up the scroll.。
And the scroll is all about the future,。
about the future of creation.。
And who is ruling the entire creation,。
the entire timeline of history,。
from past, present, and future?。
Who is worthy to open the scroll?。
Who is it?。
For you were slaughtered, your blood has ransomed people。
for God from every tribe, language, people, and nation.。
And you have caused them to become a kingdom of priests。
for our God and they will reign on the earth.。
Who is worthy to open the scroll?。
Who has the authority, the sovereignty。
to control your future, to control the future。
of the entire creation?。
It's the lamb who was laying on the cross.。
The lamb who suffered and died but rose again.。
He is the living God in Jesus Christ our Lord.。
He is worthy to open that scroll.。
And this is actually the song the angels were using。
to worship the lamb in front of his throne.。
How long is this song?。
Not too long, right?。
Short enough I can put it in one slide, right?。
And that's what they were singing。
and they were using to worship God.。
So these are very, very short,。
kind of like contemporary worship songs, right?。
So they're legit.。
We can use those because they're focused.。
They don't tell a lot of content。
but the focus is very, very sharp.。
Now are there long praise psalms in the Bible?。
Psalm 119, right?。
It's a Torah psalm.。
Appraising the word of God, the value of the word of God,。
the honor of the word of God.。
And it's very, very long.。
But again, there are many psalms that are shorter。
and much shorter and sometimes even shorter。
than the contemporary praise songs.。
Like Psalm 1, right?。
You remember Psalm 1?。
Blessed is the man who does not walk。
in the pathway of the sinners and all that.。
And Psalm 1, how many verses are there?。
Six, six verses.。
Psalm 23, and many of us know how to recite Psalm 23, right?。
The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not be want.。
The Lord is my shepherd.。
How many verses are there?。
Six, six verses only.。
121, I lift up my eyes and where my help come from.。
121, eight verses.。
133, behold how good the brothers,。
how beautiful the brothers are living together,。
staying together.。
133, three verses only.。
So there are shorter songs, many shorter songs。
in the Bible for worship.。
And also there were filled longer,。
theologically rich songs that can be used。
in worship services.。
You know, if you check out some of the traditional hymns。
that one of the examples I showed you, Amazing Grace,。
they try to squeeze major doctrines into one song, right?。
I went through with you, Amazing Grace,。
there are at least four kinds of,。
or four aspects of theology being squeezed into one song.。
Now I don't think, I think there's a legitimate way。
to do it and it has been done so well in Amazing Grace.。
But I don't think we should expect a song to be like。
a systematic theology textbook, right?。
I know a lot of you don't read, right?。
You don't read books anymore, right?。
We all go TikTok, right?。
Short videos, right?。
If you pick up some of the books from our library, right?。
From our library corner, you pick up one of those。
systematic theology books, how many pages are there?。
500 pages.。
That's crazy, right?。
If you take one of the courses in seminary,。
systematic theology, that's one of the textbooks。
that you're gonna read, right?。
There's only one.。
There are probably 10 books you have to read.。
And you just, you pick up one of those books,。
you know, it's like weapon, you know?。
You can bang people on the head and it's gonna hurt, right?。
You know, if you squeeze the entire book,。
systematic theology book, into one song,。
which is about five minutes long, three minutes long,。
it may be counterproductive at times, right?。
Right?。
Because you go through so many, so many different types。
of teachings, so many different types of content。
in one medium, one short medium,。
that may not be the best way to do it, right?。
And in worship service, as you can tell。
from the list that I gave you,。
all the elements of worship service,。
I think in terms of conveying content,。
you know, offer you materials, information,。
I don't think songs are the best way to do it, right?。
Do you agree?。
Probably preaching, 25 minutes, 30 minutes,。
is the better way to convey content.。
So again, I can understand why some guys like me,。
who are older, would prefer traditional hymns, right?。
But, you know, there was legitimate role。
for shorter, you know, simple songs,。
so that our praise and our worship would be focused.。
And some people in the discussion or debate。
would prefer traditional hymns over contemporary music。
because of quality, because of quality.。
And contemporary pop music sometimes is rejected。
because of lower music quality, right?。
Do you agree?。
Those are the songs that we use today, week after week,。
they are lower music quality, right?。
And of course, right, musically speaking,。
you know, classical music is of better quality, right?。
In terms of harmonization, in terms of sophistication,。
right, you know, Handel's Messiah,。
I mean, it's so complicated, it's so rich, right?。
And the harmonization and the arrangement is so rich,。
you know, Mozart, Beethoven, you know,。
those kind of music, traditional classical music。
is of better quality in terms of musicality.。
So arguably, they are better music quality.。
And some people would prefer the traditional hymns。
because of that, because of the better quality.。
But as I explained to you in the entire series,。
I asked the question, is it the church mission。
to preserve traditions?。
Is it or not?。
Is it the mission of a church to preserve music or art。
of highest quality?。
Is it our mandate?。
Partially, I think so, right?。
Cultural mandate, Genesis one.。
However, one can arguably say。
that this is not the church mission, right?。
Some of the music that we use in the entire long history。
of Christian history only serve for one generation。
because that generation understand。
that kind of language of worship.。
And I told you, I learned some Hebrew songs, right?。
And those songs are particularly understandable,。
intelligent to that particular culture.。
And it would not be, it would not have the same effect。
for us, right?。
And so, there are people who say。
that music, church music, has to be good enough。
to be preserved beyond its own time.。
Otherwise, we should not use it in worship service.。
Now, I appreciate the basic intent,。
but I don't think this is totally biblical。
because remember the principle of Paul。
in 1 Corinthians 14.。
He said, "No matter what we do, we need to do it。
"in such a way that we can edify the entire family,。
"the church, the local church.。
"The church can be strengthened."。
Even new visitors come in and they can feel God's presence.。
They can understand the lyrics without much difficulty.。
And that is what Paul is going after。
in terms of quality, right?。
Because there are many different kinds of quality。
in the world.。
And Paul is saying to the Corinthian church,。
"And please, do your worship and engage in worship。
"in such a way that is good for everybody."。
Even it is effective for new believers or non-believers.。
And they come in, what is best in music。
in terms of what Paul is saying。
is that the music that will communicate。
with people today, right?。
And certainly there are musics that I've used。
or my worship life has used in the past.。
They are bygone.。
You know, we don't use it anymore。
because it spoke to the previous generation。
but no longer speaking to this generation.。
So I think there are place for all kinds of music.。
There are place for all kinds of worship songs。
including contemporary modern praise songs.。
And again, we need to understand what song is all about.。
Song or poem is not the ideal medium for content, right?。
As I told you, it's only five minutes long, right?。
You can't say much.。
You can only focus on one thing at a time.。
And we have to understand and ask the question。
how we can become a better worshiper。
by understanding what worship songs is all about.。
You know, if you have come to church for quite some time,。
you understand worship songs are like prayers.。
They are directed toward God, right?。
They are prayer-like songs and directed to God, right?。
Most of the songs that we use.。
And as such, worship songs or worship poems,。
the songs that we sing, are written for expression,。
emotional expression, emotive impact.。
And in order to create that kind of emotive impact,。
it has to be somewhat reparative, right?。
The contemporary worship songs,。
even the traditional hymns, are reparative in some way。
because that is the nature of worship songs.。
I would like to use the analogy。
that worship songs are like love songs, right?。
You know, you sing some of the love songs,。
even secular love songs, right?。
Those are very good songs, right?。
They are reparative in some way.。
Or worship songs are like love songs and national anthems.。
National anthems.。
Has to be repeated, right?。
It is kind of reparative.。
You do it one time, two time,。
repeatedly, regularly, right?。
Every NFL game start with national anthem, right?。
And we're gonna sing together。
because national anthem are pretty much like love songs.。
They are emotional expression。
to declare allegiance to the country, right?。
Are there any reparative songs in the Bible?。
There are.。
One of the example is Psalm 136.。
Here I give you the first five verses.。
Give thanks to the Lord for he is good,。
for his standfast love endures forever.。
Give thanks to the Lord, give thanks to the God of gods。
for his standfast love endures forever.。
Give thanks to the Lord for his standfast love。
endures forever.。
To him who alone does great wonders。
for his standfast love endures forever.。
To him who by understanding made the heavens。
for his standfast love endures forever.。
And it keeps on repeating the same chorus again and again。
and tells you why do we praise God,。
why do we give thanks to him.。
And this Psalm 136 is very, very long, right?。
It's very, very long.。
And it actually recites the entire history of Israel.。
How God told his people, talk about Exodus,。
talks about signs and wonder God has done in the midst,。
talk about wilderness, talk about how God provides for them.。
And that's why God is praiseworthy.。
Now, this is a very emotive expression.。
Repetitive, repeat again and again,。
for his standfast love endures forever.。
Yes, amen, it endures forever.。
That's why we praise him.。
And every time the chorus repeats,。
it talks about different aspects of God。
and what God is doing in your life, right?。
God has certainly provided for you,。
God has certainly sustained your life,。
God has certainly guided through your life journey,。
and that's why he is praiseworthy。
for his standfast love endures forever, right?。
These are emotions, right?。
Just like my wife would prefer me to say I love you.。
For how many times?。
Many times, right?。
I can't tell my wife, you know,。
I told you five years ago, right?。
It's done deal, right?。
There's no more content I wanna express to you, right?。
But you understand this emotive expression, right?。
It has to be spoken or verbalized from time to time, right?。
You know, when my kids were younger,。
we try to intentionally do that, you know,。
we try to teach our kids, you know,。
as you know, kids don't talk these days, right?。
They're often with their phone, right?。
So when they were so much younger,。
we tell them, you know, you have to express your feeling.。
You know, you have to verbalize it.。
When you see a sunset is beautiful,。
you should say it is beautiful, right?。
It is awesome, right?。
They need to learn how to find the right word。
to describe their feelings.。
And we intentionally do that at home.。
I will tell them I'm happy because what happened, you know?。
I'm happy, I'm excited, I'm sad, I am kind of depressed,。
I'm exhausted.。
You know, these kind of vocabularies。
are emotional vocabularies, right?。
I tell my kids, "Love you," right?。
And they tell me, "I love you."。
And this sort of expression has to happen,。
you know, linguistically, I mean, verbally,。
it has to be described, right?。
And I want to bring this analogy to worship as well,。
because worship is an emotional language.。
And I want to tell you from my own life journey,。
my own cultural heritage, right, Asian Chinese, right?。
We have lack of emotional vocabularies.。
We have none, okay?。
We have no emotional vocabularies in our dictionary, right?。
Don't you agree?。
How do we express love to our children?。
Chinese parents, we do, "Eat some more."。
(audience laughing)。
Have you eaten?。
Go eat, right?。
Oh, eat some more, right?。
This is how we do it, right?。
This is pretty sad.。
One time I was visiting a family,。
and they have one of their loved one passed away.。
It's very tragic.。
So I went to visit the family,。
and they just have no vocabularies to describe the feelings.。
In the entire visitation, almost an hour,。
I stay there an hour, and I pray with them,。
you know, I care for them.。
All they say is, "Pastor, eat."。
(audience laughing)。
Or, "You have to eat," okay?。
I said, "I had dinner."。
"Oh, no, you have to eat."。
"Oh, you have to drink some more," okay?。
And then we talk for about 10 minutes,。
and then later on, you know, the family members come,。
and we found the dish, and come, "Hey, eat," okay?。
I mean, can we say I'm sad?。
Can we say I'm depressed, and I wanna cry,。
and I can lament, right?。
This is a legitimate emotional expression。
that we need to use.。
This is a love language, right?。
And we need to learn that.。
And in order to be better worshiper,。
we need to learn that kind of language as well.。
So I wanna suggest to you, we need to do that.。
Not just for parents, okay?。
Not just for family relationship.。
You know, all kinds of relationship。
have to be emotionally related, emotionally expressive, right?。
I, as a father, I need to learn how to use those words, right?。
And there are difficulties I need to overcome, right?。
At first, I was quite uncomfortable to say that, right?。
To say to my wife, "I love you."。
Say to my kids, "Love you," right?。
And I kind of, along the way,。
I find some cool way to say it, right?。
"Love you."。
(audience laughs)。
And then I get used to it.。
I get more comfortable to express it.。
But my main point is we need to learn that, right?。
Even between friends.。
You know, how do we get closer and closer, right?。
It has to be emotionally expressive, right?。
You gotta have some emotional connection.。
And worship is an emotional response to God, right?。
Like this psalm.。
"God has saved us and redeemed us,。
"created us and sustained us.。
"And we feel good," right?。
We wanna give thanks.。
Even giving thanks itself is an emotional response, right?。
And we respond to the goodness of God。
and ultimately the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ。
because we sinners, we're separated from the holy God.。
Only Jesus came to bridge the chasm。
between the holy God's totally separate from us,。
alienated from us, and us, broken sinners.。
And Jesus died on the cross and rose from the dead。
so that we can be bridged back to God, related to God.。
So how can we be a better worshiper?。
And may I suggest to you three more things。
as your take-homes.。
First, be intentional.。
We have to be intentional.。
Our weekly Sunday worship service,。
we have to be intentional.。
And you realize how much time we devoted。
to prepare for worship service,。
no matter how many people show up?。
I think we practice, this practice, today's rehearsal,。
I think it took us two plus hours, right?。
And with the preparation and all that,。
number of hours, we do, we rehearse。
in order to craft our worship, right?。
Of course, it's not the best of the world, right?。
We're not professionals.。
But we try to do our best, right?。
So what I'm saying is, first point is be intentional。
if we want to become better worshipers.。
Arrive a little bit earlier.。
I told you many times, my best practice is come in。
and find a seat, find some space, and I can pray to God.。
I can meditate on God.。
Remember, worship is a relational encounter, right?。
And today is Father's Day.。
God is our true Father, right?。
We early fathers are broken.。
We are sinners, and we need redemption of Christ,。
just like our children do.。
But God is our true and perfect Father.。
And Jesus died on the cross to redeem us。
from sin and from death, so that our relationship。
with God is a reality now in Christ.。
So be intentional, because God is relating to us, right?。
God is not an ideal or a concept, or even not a philosophy.。
God is a living God.。
He's a person, and we have a personal relationship。
with our Creator, with our Redeemer.。
Secondly, I would suggest to pray.。
Learn how to pray.。
What do I mean by that?。
You know, in prayers, we don't just make a list。
of needs and wants in front of God.。
That is not the essence of prayer.。
Prayer is to come before God with an open heart,。
be honest, and be open, and tell God how you feel today,。
how you feel this week.。
Maybe you're so tired this week.。
Yes, open to God, right?。
Tell God that you are tired.。
Tell God that you are exhausted.。
I need your help.。
Tell God you feel frustrated.。
You feel anxious.。
You worry about things.。
You present those emotional feelings to God,。
and even tell God you are joyful today.。
Tell God you're excited, right?。
Did you listen to the words that we use?。
Emotional, expressive terms, right?。
God, I'm exhausted, I'm frustrated.。
God, I'm happy, right?。
I'm joyful.。
All kinds of emotions are found in the book of Psalms.。
All kinds of emotions are found。
in the worship elements in the Bible.。
I remember September 11th.。
September 11th, I think it happened on,。
of course, it happened on September 11th, 2001, right?。
And I think it happened on Monday or Tuesday,。
yeah, if I'm not mistaken.。
And I remember after September 11th happened,。
I was serving in the church,。
and the worship leaders called me up and say,。
how should we respond, right?。
You know, the original worship set,。
we have chosen some songs, right?。
And we have to change every one of them, right?。
And I suggested to them, you know,。
we don't have to come to worship。
always feeling joyful and excited.。
We can come before God with our laments, right?。
Lamentations.。
Those are legitimate worship response。
and emotional response.。
We can lament before God.。
And the book of Psalms contains many, many psalms。
that are laments, community laments,。
or individual laments.。
Those are sad songs, but we can present those to God.。
So I suggest to you to pray, to learn how to pray.。
Think for a minute how you would respond。
if God actually appeared to you right now.。
If God all of a sudden, (mimics God's voice)。
appeared before you, how would you respond, right?。
You know, in the Bible, there were many encounters like this。
in the book of Job.。
Job was suffering, right?。
He's a righteous guy and suffered a lot.。
And he demanded God to answer his questions.。
He has so many questions about suffering, right?。
Why am I suffering, right?。
An innocent man suffering a lot.。
Job demanded God to answer his questions.。
However, at the end of the book, God did show up.。
God said, "Yeah, you wanna interview me?。
"Yes, here I am."。
But when God met Job,。
God in turn asked him a lot of questions, right?。
Do you have the wisdom?。
Do you have my transcendent wisdom。
to govern the entire cosmos?。
Do you have that kind of wisdom?。
Can you understand that kind of wisdom?。
And Job was silent before the Creator.。
And he encountered God in such an awesome way, right?。
Moses and Isaiah, they encountered God in worship.。
And they realized God is holy and sinless.。
And they were unworthy.。
And they begged for mercy,。
that we need your grace, God, to come before you.。
Otherwise, we are undone, right?。
We are over because we are sinful.。
And God is so bright and so glorious, so pure.。
How can we approach God?。
There's no way we can approach God,。
except on the ground of grace.。
And maybe we can come before God。
and prepare ourselves in prayer,。
knowing that only Jesus made forgiveness possible for us,。
so that we can worship God, we can come before God,。
because Jesus first loved us.。
And number three I wanna suggest to you is to learn, right?。
We have to learn.。
No matter how long you have been to church,。
no matter how long you've been a Christian,。
no matter how long you have followed Christ,。
we need to learn how to worship,。
how to worship better.。
Because worship is not about passively watching a show.。
It's not Saturday night life, right?。
It's not just come in and you just absorb something.。
It's not passively engaging.。
It's about actively, proactively, we participate.。
Because we believe in Jesus and we are God's people.。
And God is calling his people to worship him.。
And worship flows out of our living relationship。
with God himself.。
Today, even I've been worshiping for many decades,。
I'm still learning new songs, right?。
Because I understand when God does new things in history,。
there are new songs of worship.。
And I'm trying to learn those new songs, right?。
Try to learn and try to concentrate.。
Try to direct our attention to God。
so that God is totally pleased in your worship,。
in my worship, in our worship.。
Let us all pray and pray that God will help us。
to be better worshipers, to be a better church.。
Heavenly Father, we call you Father because you are perfect。
and you are holy and sinless and pure.。
Yes, we can come before you today。
only on the ground of grace.。
Because of the grace of God expressed to us,。
demonstrate to us on the cross of Jesus.。
Thank you for first loving us so that we can love you back.。
Thank you for this living relationship。
that we have with you.。
Our prayers are not talking to empty air.。
Our prayers are directed to you.。
And you are our loving Father.。
Thank you for sustaining us, providing for us.。
And God, we come before you, we are sorry.。
Forgive us, forgive our shortcomings.。
Sometimes we come before you to worship。
as if this is a job, as if this is one of the things。
that in our checklist, we wanna get it done。
and get it over with.。
Father, forgive us.。
Bring us into true worship.。
Help us to be better worshipers,。
to learn languages that will express our thanks to you,。
to learn songs and poems that we can say to you,。
you are our awesome God.。
Thank you for being our loving God.。
Thank you for saving us and redeeming us。
from sin and from death and darkness.。
Bring us into your light.。
Help us to be renewed because we understand your grace.。
So transform our lives this week。
so that our lifestyle will honor to you.。
And as we come week after week to worship you,。
may our worship be pleasing to you。
for you are worthy of our praise.。
In Christ name we pray.。
Well, God bless you all and please stay behind。
for a little time of fellowship together。
and there was some refreshment out there。
and say hi to some of our new friends。
and say hi to your neighbors, okay?。
God bless.。
