- Hey guys, let's turn to the Bible。
and we will start a mini series called Way of Wisdom.。
Way of Wisdom.。
Okay, so my first question for you is that。
when you think of wisdom or being wise,。
what does it mean?。
What does it mean to be wise?。
What does it mean to have wisdom?。
And who can you think of someone,。
a name, a face, someone who is a wise person?。
Can you think of anyone like that in your life?。
Someone who is wise, someone who has,。
you know, embodied wisdom in their life?。
Now, does wisdom, does wisdom mean intelligence?。
Just intelligence?。
Or, you know, you get a 4.0 GPA, straight A student.。
Does it mean you have wisdom?。
Can your paycheck number on your paycheck。
will tell you whether you have wisdom or not?。
Some of the questions we need to ask,。
what does it mean to have wisdom?。
Especially in our generation, you know,。
you listen to all sorts of different discourses out there,。
political discourse, public discourse,。
private conversations or conversations in our relationships.。
Can we pick up some wisdom?。
You know, this generation, we need wisdom.。
Especially men, all right?。
I know I'm old school, but, you know,。
we need to embody wisdom.。
What does it mean to live a life of wisdom,。
a way of wisdom?。
Many years ago, maybe I'm dating now,。
many, many years ago, back in the 90s,。
back in the 90s, you know, as I told you, I'm getting old.。
Back in the 90s, there was a new label or new topic。
that everyone was talking about, mid 90s.。
Emotional intelligence, emotional intelligence.。
That was a term, emotional intelligence。
or emotional quotient, EQ,。
coined by a scholar named Daniel Goldman.。
And he published his studies。
because he followed some of the best students。
out of Harvard, out of MIT,。
followed their career path。
and followed how they managed their life.。
And he finds that many of those people have just high IQ,。
does not mean they live successfully,。
does not mean they work with wisdom,。
does not mean they manage their life。
and their career successfully or wisely.。
So he publishes his work called "Emotional Intelligence,"。
"Emotional Intelligence,"。
and the subtitle of the book says it all.。
So the main title of the book is "Emotional Intelligence."。
The subtitle is "Why It Can Matter More Than IQ."。
So why EQ matters more than IQ?。
So in his study,。
he finds that there were five essentials for human life.。
How we manage our life,。
how we manage our life in the sense。
that we will be so-called successful.。
So he named five essential elements of EQ.。
First, listen up, first, is self-awareness, self-awareness,。
self-awareness, that's the first thing.。
Second, self-regulation,。
how you regulate yourself,。
you know, how you discipline yourself.。
Number three, motivation,。
how you have motivation at work, in life in general.。
Number four, empathy, empathy,。
how you relate to other people,。
how you make other people feel,。
how you connect with other people, empathy.。
Number five is social skills,。
how you relate to one another,。
you know, how you build friendship,。
you know, trust between people.。
So number one, five elements of EQ,。
Daniel Coleman said, the first one is what?。
Self-awareness, self-awareness,。
that you are aware of your problem,。
you're aware of who you are。
and you know how to carry yourself, self-awareness.。
Second is self-regulation, how you discipline yourself,。
how you live your life, regulate your time.。
Number three is motivation,。
you find yourself getting motivated this morning。
when you get up, so tired,。
what's wrong with you?。
There's something wrong with us.。
Self-motivation, number three.。
Four, empathy, right, empathy.。
Number five, social skills.。
These five, he says, is the five big things。
to manage your life, so-called emotional intelligence.。
So it doesn't have to do with IQ,。
whether you get a PhD or get a professional degree。
or you are very, very educated, it's all here, right?。
The most important things that Coleman said。
is your emotional intelligence.。
Speaking of that, that is pretty much similar。
to what the Bible has to say about wisdom.。
Now the Bible says a lot about wisdom.。
If you want to be a wise person,。
if you want to be a wise, for me, being a wise father,。
wise husband, spouse, wise friend,。
worker, neighbor, all of this,。
the Bible has a lot to say about wisdom.。
Has a lot to say about how we live our life wisely.。
You know, when the Bible uses the term wisdom,。
it usually means that something related to practical skills.。
Practical skills.。
You are skillful in certain things.。
That means you are wise in certain things.。
So Exodus 36, there were a couple of verses,。
it says there were a couple of people,。
Pastor Al and Oholiab, Oholiab,。
anyways, how you pronounce it,。
it doesn't matter, it's Hebrew, anyway.。
Oholiab, and every skill-wise person。
to whom the Lord has given skill and ability。
to know how to carry out all the work。
constructing the sanctuary, the tabernacle,。
to do the work just as the Lord has commanded.。
Now, what's going on here?。
The Israelites were in wilderness,。
and God said, "You guys need to build a home for me。
"so I can dwell among you, I can live among you."。
And that is tabernacle, or translated sanctuary here.。
It's a portable temple so that God will lead his people。
in the midst of them, living in the midst of them,。
walking in the midst of them, to relate to them.。
So it has to do with worship,。
it has to do with relating to God in the wilderness.。
And so the sanctuary has to be built,。
and the tabernacle has to be built.。
You know, tabernacle has different items,。
different furniture items, like manure,。
and the show table, and the fabric,。
the poles, and all of this stuff,。
those are practical things that you need。
to set up the temple, the portable temple tabernacle,。
in the midst.。
So God has chosen some of the people here。
who are wise, skilled in certain things.。
So probably they can do metalworking,。
they can do carpentry,。
so that they can set up the right, proper worship among them.。
So God needs wise people to build his church, right,。
to build his presence, to build up the tabernacle。
in those days when the Israelites were in the wilderness.。
So the Bible has a lot to say about wisdom.。
And one of the books in the Bible。
that has to do with wisdom,。
has a lot to do with wisdom, is the book of Proverbs,。
found in the middle of the Bible.。
And I wanna emphasize something,。
that when we read again this book,。
we try to understand what the world is like in this book.。
Now, if you read the book from verse one to the last verse,。
there are 31 chapters,。
you find that there is some sort of world structure。
presented by the book.。
And you find something really clear in this book,。
in the book of Proverbs,。
is that there is some sort of moral structure,。
some sort of spiritual structure in this world.。
In general, what it means is you do something,。
and then there's consequence.。
Your actions always have consequences.。
If you do good, in general, you will receive reward.。
If you do badly, then you will be penalized,。
you will suffer.。
So this is kind of the general truth, it's not always true.。
It's not universal truth, it's not promises.。
But in the book of Proverbs,。
you find a lot of this has to do with the order。
of the universe that God has arranged,。
so that in this moral order, in this spiritual order,。
we have to behave in a certain way.。
Give you an example here, chapter 11, verses 24 to 25.。
It says, "A man gives freely, yet gains even more.。
"And other men withholds."。
Doesn't want to give, but comes to poverty.。
25, "A generous man, alive,。
"living in generosity, will prosper.。
"He who refreshes others, give away for others,。
"and help others, will himself be refreshed."。
You see the cause and effect here.。
The spiritual order, or the cosmic order,。
if you honor God with your wealth, you will increase.。
Even your heart will increase.。
You will get a sense of satisfaction.。
You will feel good.。
If you give freely to others, to bless other people,。
you, yourself, will be blessed.。
If you serve other people, it's not because。
you're giving up all the time.。
You will get something back, and your life will be blessed.。
So that is the world of Proverbs.。
There is always consequence in the order.。
Just like law of gravity.。
You drop something, it will break.。
You have a glass of water, you drop it on the floor,。
on the ground, it will break.。
The glass will shatter.。
That's consequence to our actions.。
So that's what the life of wisdom is.。
So the book of Proverbs is encouraging us。
to observe the moral universe and the spiritual order。
that God has set up in our world,。
so that we can live accordingly to those principles.。
Now, one of my favorite passages。
in the book of Proverbs is this.。
Let me read that first.。
Chapter 24.。
Now, here the wise teacher,。
the wise man, like the teacher in the book of Proverbs,。
he did something, and then he observed something,。
and then from his observation,。
he gets some spiritual principles out of it.。
He said, "I went past the field of this lucker,。
"past the vineyard of the man who lacks judgment.。
"Thorns had come up everywhere,。
"and the ground was covered with weeds,。
"and stone walls was in ruin."。
Now, look what the wise is doing.。
He opened his eyes, and he observed。
what is going on in the world.。
He passed through a farm of a lazy person,。
a lazy farmer, sluggard,。
because he does not do anything to the farm.。
He does not put in his effort。
to cultivate the ground, the soil.。
So he passed through, and he observed.。
He observed something because of his lack of judgment,。
because the farmer is being lazy,。
he's not doing his work,。
and then you got weeds,。
and you got all sorts of problems for your soil,。
and your farm is in ruin,。
and stone wall is also in ruin.。
Now, what he observes here。
is that there is some sort of arrangement。
in this world.。
There's some sort of spiritual order in this world.。
If you do something, there's consequence.。
If you don't do something you're supposed to do,。
there's also consequence.。
If you're lazy, you're not putting effort in your life,。
in your farm, in this case,。
you know, there's always true。
that your farm will go into ruin.。
Your house, your stone wall,。
they will always fall.。
You know, the wall of stones,。
you stack stones and bricks on top of it。
so that it will protect you.。
If you don't maintain it,。
if you don't put in energy,。
if you're not being proactive,。
the bricks or the stones,。
they will inevitably fall.。
Okay?。
The fallen stone will not go back to the wall。
unless you pick it up and put it back on.。
But if you do not maintain your life,。
if you don't maintain your stone wall,。
the stone will drop.。
Law of gravity, right?。
Well, it doesn't take Newton to understand it.。
So the wise is trying to help us to observe。
the life of the lazy person.。
I mean, look at your bedroom.。
If you don't put energy to it,。
look at your house,。
it will be in chaos.。
There's always a cause and effect in this world.。
And what the wise is trying to understand is,。
again, it's the spiritual order of things.。
Life will always deteriorate.。
Life always deteriorate.。
And life naturally descends into chaos.。
Just like stone wall will fail.。
It will fall.。
Now, what he observed is that。
once you have order,。
stone wall, your farm, good soil,。
order in your house,。
it will eventually lead to disorder.。
Order always goes to disorder.。
Order always goes to chaos.。
It will never happen naturally from chaos to order.。
It always happens that order goes to disorder.。
Unless you put energy into your life。
and put things back to order.。
Repair the broken wall.。
Pick up the stone and bricks,。
put it back on the wall.。
You see?。
32.。
Verse 32, he says,。
"I apply my heart to what I observe。
"and learn a lesson from what I saw.。
"A little sleep, a little slumber,。
"a little folding of hands to rest.。
"Poverty will come on you like a bandit,。
"and scarcity like an armed soldier.。
"You will be attacked."。
You know?。
I don't know if you understand it。
or if you can observe or agree with the wise.。
Our life is always going to the direction of chaos.。
Unless we're proactive enough。
and we are active enough to make corrections,。
to maintain it.。
Your finance.。
If you just have money sit there,。
you don't do anything about it,。
it will always be devalued, right?。
Your house, your bedroom,。
your schedule,。
your calendar.。
If you don't do anything, folding of hands,。
if you're lazy, if you don't observe and you don't learn,。
it will always go to chaos.。
Anyone remember when you were in college,。
you learn second law of thermodynamics?。
Ring any bell?。
Second law of thermodynamics?。
Okay, no, right?。
So you guys didn't go to chemistry class.。
Second law of thermodynamics says in this universe,。
things always go to chaos, right?。
The entropy in our lives always increases.。
Unless you put energy into it and correct it。
and bring it back to order.。
That's what the wise is trying to teach us.。
Now, as you can tell from the book of Proverbs,。
it's not like a prophetical books.。
It's not like other books in the Bible.。
Like the prophets, the prophets will come to you。
and say directly, this is what the Lord has said.。
Thus says the Lord, you have to do this,。
thou shall do this or thou shall not do this.。
It's a direct command.。
But the wise in the book of Proverbs。
is that he uses his observation,。
he'll open his eyes and observe other people,。
observe life in general, and then learn something.。
So it's not from top down, it's from bottom up.。
That's what wisdom will take you.。
Observe your spiritual life.。
Now, I've been a Christian for decades.。
If I just being lazy and I don't care。
about my relationship with God,。
things will always go to chaos.。
You have less strength to withstand temptations.。
You have less faith, less confidence to withstand issues,。
to deal with difficulties in your life.。
It is always harder to worship God。
unless you train yourself and strengthen yourself.。
It's kind of a physical exercise, right?。
How many of you can do a seven minute plank?。
How many of you can do it?。
Probably only a few people can do it, right?。
Well, how come people can do a longer plank?。
Because they train themselves.。
They strengthen themselves so that the muscles are going。
so that they can do what they want to do.。
Our spiritual muscle always needs work.。
You go to the gym, you train yourself,。
you fight against chaos,。
you try to tame the chaos in your life.。
Every single morning, you try to deal with all this disorder。
in your work, in your relationship, in your marriage,。
in your family, in your neighborhood.。
You always try to rely on God and you train yourself。
so that your life can withstand trials and temptations.。
They will come at you whether you ask for it or not.。
Difficulties, challenges, issues。
will always come to threaten your life。
and will pull you apart and separate you from God.。
So every single morning, you have to have the motivation。
to fight the chaos, be a man,。
put in energy and put things back to order.。
So after the sermon, you probably need to go back home,。
put things back to order, right?。
So long you're just folding your hand。
and you don't care much.。
After the sermon, you go back to your life,。
your personal life, you know, read the Bible,。
read the Word of God, just meditate on the Word of God.。
Unless you do that, you don't have the Word of God,。
you don't have the strength of God inside of you.。
And then you will be defeated。
because chaos will take over.。
Unless you do that, what the wise is trying to do。
and understand if we fold our hands to rest,。
poverty, spiritual poverty will come upon you.。
And that is your responsibility.。
That's not the church's responsibility.。
That's not your mentors' responsibility.。
That is your role.。
You need to take charge.。
You need to take leadership.。
That is the way of wisdom.。
Now there's one big question I always meditate on。
is that many of these wise sayings。
are from someone called Solomon.。
Solomon has the reputation of being the wisest king。
of all the earth.。
You remember that, the book of Kings,。
when Solomon was being introduced?。
He was so wise and he has the wisdom。
to bring righteous judgment to his people.。
He can rule his kingdom with righteousness and justice.。
There's so many sayings that come from King Solomon,。
but I don't know why Solomon failed at the end.。
He failed miserably at the end.。
Yeah, he had the glory,。
but at the end of the last chapter of his life,。
everything just spiraled into chaos。
and the kingdom is gone, is in ruin.。
And the nation of Israel was divided into north and south.。
How did that happen to the wisest king on earth?。
And then one day I was searching some of the Proverbs,。
some of the passages, and I find this really interesting.。
And it's really, really a great reminder for all of us.。
Why did the wisest person, the wisest king, Solomon,。
fail at the end?。
1927.。
Proverbs 1927.。
Stop listening to instruction, my son.。
You will stray.。
Not you may stray, not possibly you will stray,。
but you will definitely stray from the words of knowledge,。
the knowledge of God, the knowledge,。
the wisdom to walk in the way of God.。
Stop listening.。
One day you find yourself, you check yourself,。
check your heart.。
Dude, I don't need to listen to this.。
Dude, I don't need to study this.。
I don't need to find out and learn something more。
from the word of God.。
You stop right there, you stop listening to instructions,。
spiritual instruction, my son,。
you will definitely stray away.。
Now I have seen a lot of Christians in my life。
who did just that.。
When they were younger, happier,。
and they were really, really solid in their faith.。
But I just scratching my head, what is going on with them?。
What is going on with them?。
There has to be something wrong.。
And you just hear the person complain about this and that,。
this and that, you know?。
But this verse says, there's a heart issue here.。
There's something deep inside, it's the inner issue.。
Inner issue of stop listening.。
And the Bible says it, adultery.。
Because you always listen to someone.。
If you don't listen to God, you listen to the counterfeit God,。
the false gods, the culture, the world, or even yourself.。
And you deceive yourself.。
And then you spiral down into spiritual chaos。
because of this.。
You stop listening, my son, you will definitely stray.。
You will go astray from spiritual knowledge.。
What a reminder to all of us.。
I remember in the beginning of this year, in January,。
I preached on a series called Atomic Wisdom.。
Remember that?。
Remember that?。
It's been so long.。
It's not that long, guys, it's not that long.。
It's just a few months ago.。
I preached on this series, Atomic Wisdom,。
and we went into the Bible and we said,。
there are small atomic habits。
that will bring you huge effect if you do that.。
Just a little bit small good habit,。
it will bring you fruitful life.。
And I just wanna remind you and challenge you,。
since the beginning of this year,。
what has changed in your habits?。
What has changed in your life?。
Are there any small habits or good habits。
you have already built up?。
The foundation of small habits go a long way, guys.。
And what's standing in the way,。
sometimes we say, is life is too busy.。
Indeed, life is very busy.。
Who is not busy here?。
Everyone is busy.。
So often we say, because life is too busy.。
Come on, God, just give me a break, all right?。
When I have a vacation, then I'll read the Bible.。
When I have spare time, dude, I'll read the Bible.。
Now, sometimes we say that to ourselves。
because we wanna deceive ourselves.。
We say, life is busy because, no,。
this guy's reading the Bible more because he has more time.。
I have less time.。
But seriously, it's just self-deception.。
Everyone here has 24 hours a day.。
We say that as an excuse, but deep down,。
it's probably pride.。
Probably we are too proud of ourselves.。
You know what pride is?。
Pride is not being mean.。
Pride is self-satisfaction.。
I'm all good by myself.。
I don't need the other voice。
to tell me what to do.。
I don't need God to tell me what to do.。
I don't need God to define me.。
I don't need God to tell me what to do。
and how do I see myself, my identity,。
and my future, everything else.。
I don't need God.。
I don't want to learn.。
I don't want Him in my life.。
The most important thing is me.。
The most important thing, the defining factor of my life。
is just me and now.。
And that is pride in the Bible.。
That is stop listening to instruction.。
Stop having other people to speak into my life.。
I just shut down, you know.。
I just, please shut up, guys.。
You know, I don't need to listen to you.。
Please shut up, God.。
I don't need to listen to you.。
And that is the way of foolishness。
because you will stray from the word of spiritual knowledge.。
I don't care what you did in the past,。
but if you stop listening, then you will go astray.。
Chapter 9, verse 10.。
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.。
Knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.。
You see the parallel here?。
The fear of the Lord, the proper relationship with our God,。
the fear of the Lord is parallel。
with knowledge of the Holy One.。
Fear of the Lord, knowing how to fear God。
is to know God.。
To know God means to fear Him,。
to understand who He is and relate to Him properly.。
And aren't we blessed that we have Jesus Christ。
in our lives?。
It's in Jesus and in Christ that we are related to God,。
restore our relationship with God properly,。
that God is our creator, God is our Father,。
and we are His sons and daughters.。
We are His people.。
That's how we know God.。
But here the why says, the fear of the Lord。
and the knowledge of the Lord is the same.。
And that is the foundation of your life.。
That is the foundation of your house。
that you have to build on.。
And you keep on listening to God,。
keep on being open to God,。
because God is actively doing something in your life.。
The problem is we don't feel like God is doing something。
because we stop listening to Him.。
We just close down.。
So a final reminder is that, you know,。
today is October.。
Oh my goodness.。
This year is almost over.。
But it's never too late.。
It's never too late.。
If we're willing to fear God,。
if we're willing to know Him, to relate to Him,。
God will bless you.。
So I want to remind you to read the Bible.。
Read the Word of God every day.。
There's one very wise suggestion。
to how to read the Bible。
if you don't know how to begin with,。
or you haven't been reading the Word of God。
for a long, long time.。
There's one good suggestion,。
is to take the book of Proverbs,。
because there are 31 chapters in the book,。
and you read one chapter a day.。
Go home and read it.。
And it's not just reading the Bible,。
it's to pray to Him.。
To pray and to be open what God is doing in your life.。
What is God doing in your life?。
What does God want you to do?。
Pray for other people.。
Maybe there are some friends that we need to pray for them.。
Church ministry, we need to pray for.。
And the growth of the church, we need your prayers.。
We need to pray for the church.。
It's not just, I want this, I need this, I want this, God.。
Give it to me, give it to me.。
If you don't give it to me, you're not God anymore.。
This is not worshiping, this is not fear of the Lord,。
this is using God in the name of God for your sake.。
And that is pride.。
That is idolatry.。
Read the Bible, pray to God.。
Now observe the time of worship。
because this is probably the entire week。
you can just sit down and be open to God,。
open your heart and listen to what He is saying to you.。
And you listen and obey.。
As we close, why don't we pray together?。
(pages rustling)。
Probably we have forgotten God, but let's pray.。
God is full of grace.。
God is always there to knock on our doors,。
to welcome us into His presence.。
Hey, Father, dear God, thank you for being our God.。
(gentle piano music)。
Help us to come before you now.。
Open our hearts and our mind, our lives,。
so that we don't,。
we are not occupied with ourself, our ego.。
But God, let us know, let me know。
what I need to get rid of in my life。
so that I can put my life back to order.。
My spiritual relationship with you,。
my relationship with other people,。
to learn how to fear you,。
to learn to listen to your voice.。
And God, thank you for being our loving Father,。
even though we are weak。
and we have so many shortcomings,。
yet you are here to embrace us.。
You are here to accept us in Jesus Christ.。
Thank you for being our loving Father,。
always waiting for us to return.。
So we come before you as the Spirit。
to help us, to help our hearts to return to you,。
to enjoy our time with you,。
to cultivate our relationship,。
the fear of the Lord in our life,。
to allot time in our busy schedule。
to relate to you,。
and pray, we just pray that your Spirit will renew,。
renew our faith.。
Help us to have the strength to deal。
with all the chaos in our lives,。
the disorders in our lives.。
Yes, we are of little faith, but help us, God.。
And thank you for being our God, always there.。
Help us to grow spiritually, help us to grow mentally,。
help us to grow emotionally,。
so that we walk in the way of wisdom.。
This is our prayer, and I pray that in this coming week,。
you will be with us, strengthen us, carry us through,。
and help us to continuously to rely on you,。
to pray to you, and to worship you,。
knowing that you are our strength and you are our rock.。
You never abandon us,。
and nothing will separate us from the love of Christ.。
Thank you for being our Father, our God.。
In Christ, we pray.。
Well, God bless you all,。
and we have some refreshment outside,。
and please enjoy some time of fellowship together.。
Make sure we spend this time together。
to get to know each other.。
I know there are some friends here, some new friends here.。
Welcome, and we wanna get to know you,。
and please get to know us as well.。
So yeah, God bless you, and I wanna see you next Sunday,。
and we continue to serve God and worship Him.。
