All right, if you have a Bible, we'll continue our series。
on the seven letters to the seven churches.。
So please turn with me to the book of Revelation.。
And by the way, this is the first of the month, okay?。
This month, we're gonna recite this verse。
and remember the promises there.。
Let's do it together, and I picked this last week。
because it is a reminder that we all need this,。
forgiveness of sin from time to time, right?。
And God's grace is always sufficient,。
and sufficient to the point that, you know,。
even though we fall and we stumble,。
but God's grace is always there, all right?。
Let's recite it together, 1 John 1, 9.。
If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just。
and will forgive us our sins。
and purify us from all unrighteousness, all right?。
Why don't we do that?。
Take a moment to confess our sin,。
to confess that we have our shortcomings,。
yet God's grace is always there, all right?。
Let's take a moment.。
Father, once again, we experience。
the unconditional forgiveness of sin,。
all because of what Jesus has done for us.。
And thank you for the renewing grace and love。
that we can experience.。
And thank you for your promise。
as we confess our sins and our shortcomings.。
You are there to embrace us with your grace。
in Christ, we pray, amen.。
So let's turn to the book of Revelation.。
Turn to book of Revelation chapter three, all right?。
We have studied some of the letters。
written by Jesus to the seven churches.。
And today we're gonna talk about this letter。
to the church in Philadelphia.。
So it's not the Philadelphia in United States.。
It's Philadelphia in today's Western Turkey.。
That is one of the cities the seven churches address to.。
So we study this from part one.。
Jesus wrote a letter to the church in Ephesus.。
And then Smyrna, Pergamon.。
Thyatira and Sardis.。
And now we come to Philadelphia, Philadelphia.。
And by the way, the name Philadelphia。
means brotherly love, right?。
Philo, love, right?。
Adelpha, Adelphia, the second part is brother.。
So brotherly love, city.。
So this church or house churches。
located in this ancient city, Philadelphia.。
And the letter is pretty short.。
And there are two points here.。
I wanna make two points from this letter,。
from the sixth letter to the church in Philadelphia.。
The first point is your work, your ministry,。
your serving of God, it matters to God.。
And second point is that your work,。
your ministry will be awarded, all right?。
It will be awarded.。
The two points here.。
So let's read through this letter.。
Verse seven of chapter three.。
To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write,。
these are the words of him who is holy and true,。
who holds the key of David.。
When he opens, no one can shut.。
What he shuts, no one can open.。
This is how Jesus introduced himself。
to the church in Philadelphia.。
And it talks about key, right?。
Key.。
You should have some keys in your pocket, right?。
What did they symbolize?。
Keys.。
I remember a couple months ago,。
because I got a very, very cheap used car.。
And so I bought this from a friend.。
And I got the car and there was only one copy of the key.。
One copy of the car key.。
And knowing that I'm very forgetful,。
I'll lose things, you know?。
When you ask my wife, I lose things all the time.。
And because we only have one key。
and I've become nervous using that car.。
So I drove this car to a hardware store nearby。
and to have my car key copied.。
And I didn't know how much it would cost.。
And I asked the manager, how much would that cost?。
And to my surprise, it's very expensive.。
Any guess?。
To copy a car key?。
300, $400.。
Woo, 300, $400.。
I thought I can just go to Home Depot and make a copy.。
But it's not that simple.。
And the manager had to ask me questions。
whether I own the car, right?。
Whether I have the registration to show him。
that I really is the owner of the car。
and he has to check my registration, my title,。
and make sure I really own the car。
and I really have the car in the parking lot。
and he can go out and check it out.。
And he's gonna order a blank, a blank key.。
And then I have to come back.。
I pay for the blank key and I have to come back。
like a couple weeks ago after I got a call from him.。
And it's a very, very complicated process.。
And I really appreciate that.。
You know why?。
Because it's not gonna be, I just steal a car。
and drive it to a hardware store and have a key copied.。
And I really appreciate that because this will prove。
that I'm not doing anything criminal.。
And it finally took me a couple of weeks。
to have my car key copied and I have a peace of mind.。
300, $400, I mean, this is crazy, right?。
Keys are access and authority.。
But you have the key to my car, you have access to it.。
You have the key to my house, you have access。
and you kind of have authority.。
And in Bible times, keys are very, very big, very large.。
Sometimes people would carry the key over the shoulder。
with a lanyard or sword.。
And then you have your key under your armpit.。
And you can show people you have a big house.。
And here's some of the pictures of the Roman time.。
You can see some of the keys,。
one of the keys here on the left.。
You find a bronze key from Roman's time。
and it is a horse head handle key.。
It's huge, you just stick it in.。
I don't know how heavy it is.。
But it's made with bronze and metal.。
On the right is also a Roman key.。
It's an iron key with a iron handle.。
That's kind of cool, right?。
That's kind of cool.。
I don't have those keys, right?。
And Jesus said, he has the key.。
And he has the key to the kingdom of David.。
And that is the kingdom, the kingdom of God promised。
long, long time ago in the Old Testament。
and finally fulfilled and inaugurated。
by the true son of David, Jesus Christ himself.。
And he has the key, he has the authority。
and access to the kingdom.。
And this is how Jesus introduced himself to the church.。
And he wants the church to remember who he is.。
Jesus is not simply a guy out there on the street.。
He is the God, the true son of David。
who inaugurate, usher in the true kingdom,。
the heavenly kingdom of David and the eternal kingdom.。
And in Christ, we share that access.。
In Christ, we share that authority.。
We have the access to go into the kingdom。
and we are part of the kingdom.。
And to this little church, Jesus wants his church。
to be reminded, no matter how many demands。
or how many challenges you are facing,。
you are depending on a God that is dependable.。
And you can trust in him.。
We all need this kind of truth.。
Sometimes we're dealing with life,。
with a lot of different issues and challenge。
and we are fighting the battles.。
And sometimes we forget that the Jesus that we believe in。
is the one who has the final authority.。
He has the final access to the kingdom。
and he guarantee the access to the kingdom.。
He has the key.。
And we have to remember that.。
In Jesus, we have the eternal hope and eternal life.。
And we have the eternal source of strength to go on.。
And why did he say that?。
We continue to read this letter from verses eight。
and following.。
Jesus said to the church, "I know your deeds.。
"See, I have placed before you an open door, the access,。
"and no one can shut it.。
"I know you have little strength,。
"yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name."。
You see what the church is going on here?。
They're facing a lot of different problems,。
different challenges, just like our church.。
And Jesus reminds them, "Yes, you have little strength,。
"but you have kept my word.。
"I am here to protect you.。
"I am here to walk with you."。
In trials of difficulties, Jesus is still there.。
And what kind of trial they're going through in verse nine?。
He said, "I will make those who are of the synagogue of Satan。
"who claim to be Jews, though they are not, but are liars.。
"I will make them come and fall down at your feet。
"and acknowledge that I have loved you."。
Now, in the context of the seven letters,。
we have already talked about or described。
what kind of situation the churches were in.。
In the first century, they were facing。
a lot of different difficulties and persecution.。
And the source of persecution。
is sometimes from so-called the Jews.。
As you understand, the early Christians,。
they kind of spin off from the Jewish synagogue。
in the first century.。
And many of the Jews in those days,。
they do not believe Jesus is the Messiah.。
They do not believe Jesus is the Christ.。
And in fact, they not only rejected,。
they would persecute and go after and oppose to anyone。
who proclaim that Jesus is the Messiah.。
And that's why the early churches were facing。
a lot of different problems from these Jewish leaders。
who's trying to stumble down the church,。
try to destroy the church.。
But Jesus has the promise for the church.。
Jesus said, "I will make your enemies,。
"the difficulties, the challenges,。
"to fall down at your feet because I have loved you,。
"because I have taken care of you."。
And so you take heart.。
There were a lot of different problems。
and challenges you are facing,。
whether you go to school today。
or whether you go to work today,。
whether we live in a society that is hostile。
to the name of Jesus.。
But Jesus is saying, "Not only I have the key。
"to the kingdom, but I will take care of you.。
"I will make your enemies fall down before you."。
But in fact, this phrase is alluding to。
some of the Old Testament promises in the past。
that God said all the nations will come to Israel,。
will come to the true Israel, the people of God,。
and they will fall down and be humble,。
and they will acknowledge that the Messiah, Yahweh,。
God, the true God, is the one that they worship.。
And the nations will one day come before the throne of God。
and acknowledge and admit that Jesus is the king.。
That is the promise here being alluded to.。
And this letter is giving us so much promise,。
so much encouragement.。
I don't know what you're going through.。
Sometimes you may be going through some very difficult time,。
but don't you forget, don't you forget who Jesus is.。
He is the one who can conquer enemies.。
He is the one who hold the key to the kingdom.。
Now, I told you before, there are seven letters。
to the seven churches.。
And if you remember, I said there were two letters。
out of the seven letters that have no condemnation at all.。
Because if you read through all seven letters。
to the churches, they have similar format.。
They start with self-introduction,。
how Jesus introduced himself,。
and always followed by the phrase, I know.。
I understand your situation.。
And then there will be praises and condemnation。
for the church.。
There are some praises for the church.。
Yes, I know your deeds, I know what you're doing,。
and I wanna praise you guys, I wanna appreciate you guys.。
And then it will be usually followed。
by some sort of correction.。
Something Jesus has against the church.。
The church has gone wrong at some places,。
and they need to repent.。
But there are only two letters that have praises only.。
There was no correction.。
The first one is the second letter to Smyrna.。
Remember?。
Praises only.。
The small churches in Smyrna,。
they're going through some hard time,。
but the second letter says,。
Jesus said, you know, I commend you.。
You guys are doing great.。
And this is the second letter that has only praises.。
The letter to Philadelphia.。
Praises only.。
That's letter number six.。
And we should be inspired to become a church like this.。
Smyrna or Philadelphia.。
This church, we receive praises only。
from the head of the church.。
You know, if Jesus walks into our church,。
what would he say?。
I'm not so confident that we'll be like。
the church in Philadelphia.。
However, this letter should be an inspiration。
for all of us to become like them.。
Church in Philadelphia.。
Not a mecca church, but faithful.。
And Jesus said, I know your deeds.。
And this really challenges our perspective on the church.。
Our perspective on our lives, our Christian life.。
When Jesus do his assessment, what is he looking for?。
Here it says the church in Philadelphia。
have little strength only.。
Little strength only.。
Little resource.。
Maybe they have less people.。
Maybe they have less financial resources.。
Maybe they have less people who are gifted.。
And Jesus observed that in his assessment.。
Jesus said this church, you have little strength.。
It's just stating a fact.。
It's not a condemnation, right?。
There's nothing wrong with having little strength.。
Having little resource.。
But according to Jesus' critical assessment,。
he says, but yet you have kept my word。
and have not denied my name.。
Under pressure.。
When you're under pressure,。
when you're under difficulties,。
we are always tempted to deny the name of Jesus.。
Maybe today I'll take a break.。
Maybe today I'll forget about Jesus, okay?。
Put him on the side.。
In the old days, I have a lot of books on my bookshelves.。
Today, I've totally transformed into a e-book person。
because I'm running out of space in my house.。
I used to have 5,000 books in my house, physical books.。
And boy, when you have to move,。
it's so painful to move.。
That's why years ago, I already made up my mind,。
okay, let's digitalize everything.。
So slowly transforming to a totally e-book person now.。
I haven't bought a book for a long, long time,。
but e-books, yeah, I did.。
But in the old days, I have so many books on my bookshelves.。
But in the days of seminary, when I was taking MDiv,。
because studying theology is really, really tough.。
It's really tough.。
There were so many books I have to read.。
What is so sad is that in seminary,。
sometimes the least you read is the Bible.。
Amen?。
Sometimes we just don't read the Bible.。
We just don't have time to read the Bible.。
Because you go to a course, you receive a syllabus,。
and you have to read like 2, 3, 4,000 pages, right?。
Church history or exegetical work or whatever,。
commentaries you have to read and reference books, you know.。
And you just don't have time to read the Bible.。
I tell you, sometimes when you are in a lot of pressures,。
you will put the Bible on the side.。
And that's what I did.。
The word of God, the very word of God.。
And sometimes as Christians, we do that too.。
On your phone, do you have a Bible app?。
How often you open the Bible app。
compared to open other apps, right?。
24 hours a day, you probably always go to TikTok.。
Always go to Instagram.。
Always go to social media app, right?。
But the Bible app, you put it on the side.。
Maybe just delete it, right?。
You don't need that.。
And when we are pressured, we are so often,。
we would deny the name of Jesus, right?。
The church in Philadelphia, however,。
they insist worshiping Jesus.。
They insist on affirming and keeping the gospel,。
keeping the faith.。
And that is the encouragement。
from Jesus himself to the church.。
You have kept my word, I know it.。
I see it.。
You have not denied my name, I see it.。
And Jesus further promised,。
I will put all of this enemies into,。
to your feet, to the feet of Christ.。
I will turn them into worshipers.。
Just like what Isaiah a long time ago,。
he prophesied the Gentiles,。
the nation will worship the King of Kings.。
Isaiah 49, Isaiah 60,。
that the church will be triumphant because of his grace.。
So that's my first point from this letter, your work.。
If you keep the word of God,。
if you keep the word of God,。
if you keep on praising Jesus,。
if you keep on following Jesus faithfully,。
God sees your work and your work matters to him.。
And secondly, your work will be rewarded.。
And you have to remember that.。
We have to remember that.。
Sometimes we serve God.。
Sometimes we continue to follow Jesus.。
We lose sight of that.。
We thought this is just here and now, right?。
Why bother?。
Why bother we serve the King,。
our Lord with all of our might and our resources?。
This is so hard.。
And the reality you need to understand ministry is hard.。
I don't know if this is true or not.。
I heard some time ago about church leadership,。
about church ministry.。
I attended one of the church conferences before。
and the speaker was saying,。
in this world, church leadership or church ministry。
is the hardest thing on earth.。
It's the hardest thing to lead.。
It's the hardest work of all.。
I don't know if you agree with that,。
but whether it's the hardest,。
the most challenging things on earth or not,。
it is challenging.。
It is not easy.。
You just have to keep on going.。
And what motivates you to keep on going?。
It's not your own strength.。
It's the hope that we have in Christ.。
It's the eternal reward.。
Yes, sometimes we do our best in our ministry。
and we don't see fruit.。
What can motivate us to continue?。
Sometimes we're in the midst of challenges in ministry,。
in our church, in our just general work of Christian life.。
Sometimes we will give up。
because we just think it's not worth it.。
Jesus said it's worth it because there was a future。
and the future is reward.。
Let's continue to read this letter, verse 10 and following.。
Since you have kept my command to endure patiently,。
I will also keep you from the hour of trial。
that is going to come upon the whole earth,。
the whole world to test those who live on the earth.。
Now, this is very interesting.。
Let's unpack this.。
He said, "You have kept my word to endure patiently."。
I like the old translation.。
The older translation would use the word steadfastness.。
Steadfastness, yeah, we don't use that word anymore.。
But steadfastness, it means remaining and unyielding。
in the face of passing time.。
As times go by, you are unyielding in your spirit.。
You keep on going.。
That is endurance, patience.。
And also Jesus said, "If you do that,。
"I've seen you do that.。
"Since you have kept my command patiently and stand fastly,。
"I will also keep you from troubles in the future."。
Now, in the later chapters of the book of Revelation,。
the book talks about the coming intense, difficult time。
for the first generation, first century church.。
There will be a big calamity,。
apocalypse happening in the world.。
And a lot of people will suffer.。
And a lot of Christians will be tested.。
And many more from the book of Revelation,。
we know that they will be a martyr as well.。
But to this church, because they have little strength,。
but they have kept the word, they kept on going,。
Jesus promised them, "I will not put extra burden on you。
"because you have been faithful day after day,。
"and I observe it for a long, long time.。
"So I will shield you from other troubles,。
"from other difficulties that are coming."。
And that is a word of comfort.。
Have you ever asked the question, what God require of you?。
I remember when I was studying theology,。
one of my professors said something。
that really stick into my mind.。
He said, "What does God really require of you,。
"require of us, especially in our context in North America?"。
Well, we are not in a country。
that is openly hostile to the gospel.。
We have freedom.。
We can choose to come to church.。
We can choose to follow Jesus.。
And yeah, there may be some difficulty.。
There may be some challenges from our family members。
who are unbelievers.。
Maybe it's from our neighbors or whatever.。
But in terms of the level of persecution,。
there is nothing, right?。
So my professor asked, "What does God really require of you?"。
And he asked a very interesting question.。
He said, "Do you think God really requires。
"so much out of us?。
"What does God demand?"。
In terms of that demand, it's actually very reasonable,。
very light, and God expects us to worship Him,。
to dwell in His Word, day by day, to live faithfully,。
to bear the name of Christ, to be a good witness.。
That is not so difficult.。
God is not requiring you to die on the cross physically,。
right, to go through some physical, intense suffering.。
There may be Christians in other parts of the world,。
like in the Muslim country or communist country.。
They may have to go through some of this。
really, really trying time.。
But for us, it's actually pretty light, pretty easy.。
And what God has required for us。
is that we will follow Christ faithfully day after day.。
That's pretty much our habit.。
That's pretty much our pattern of life.。
So this letter reminds us,。
your little work, your faithful work,。
will be remembered and will be rewarded.。
Let's finish reading this letter.。
Jesus said, "I'm coming soon.。
"Hold on to what you have.。
"Even though you have only a little,。
"hold on to what you have。
"so that no one will take your crown.。
"Him who overcomes, I will make a pillar。
"in the temple of my God.。
"Never again will He leave it.。
"I will write on Him the name of my God。
"and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem,。
"who is coming down out of heaven from my God.。
"And I will also write on Him my new name.。
"He who has ears, let him hear。
"what the Spirit says to the churches."。
He says pillar in the temple, in the new temple.。
In the book of Revelation, in the later chapters,。
in the final chapters, God said the new temple will come,。
the new Jerusalem will come.。
And as you know, if you study a little bit,。
or know a little bit about architecture,。
the ancient temples have big columns, huge columns.。
You know, the Doric columns, the Ionic columns,。
the Corinthians column.。
All those different columns are standing。
to support the temple, and it's part of the temple structure.。
If you've gone to a film museum, those are the columns。
the ancient architects will put。
into the structure of the temple.。
And the temple is the house of God.。
The temple is where God dwells.。
And here is the picture of stability,。
a picture of security, that we can be part of the pillar,。
part of the house of God, to support it,。
as a fair, be part of the fair structure。
of God's new temple.。
The city of God, the new Jerusalem,。
will descend one day from heaven,。
and God will dwell among us.。
See, being part of God's temple, God's home,。
means that you are always in God's home.。
God will always remember you.。
And so often, we don't wanna serve, we don't wanna give,。
because it's too hard for us.。
We don't wanna use our talents,。
we don't wanna give our treasure,。
because it's just too difficult for us.。
But if we, if we do that,。
we have this kind of perspective.。
It's only because it's too difficult,。
that's why we don't do it.。
But we have to ask ourselves,。
do we really believe in God?。
Do we really believe that God is good?。
Do we really believe that God is our strength?。
And God is sufficient?。
Here, although the letter is a letter of praise,。
it's also a reminder, or perhaps a warning.。
Warning to all of us, as we read through this letter,。
hey, you need to make sure。
that no one will take your crown away.。
Yeah, your crown, your glory can be taken away.。
If you don't remember, if you forget。
that your work right here, right now,。
your work of serving, your work of following Jesus。
will be remembered.。
If you do not remember that,。
it's a warning and reminder。
that your crown can be taken away.。
We can lose our place in God, we can.。
It's possible.。
It's possible if we don't keep on trusting God,。
we lose our place in the kingdom.。
We'll lose our crown.。
But the letter reminds us with words of comfort,。
words of encouragement, God will remember your work,。
no matter what that is.。
You do it in the name of Jesus, you do it by faith.。
Maybe you don't see the fruit right now,。
maybe you don't see the fruit tomorrow,。
or next week, or next month, or next year.。
But if you do it by faith, God will reward it.。
God will remember.。
So your work matters to God, and your work。
will be remembered.。
Don't you forget that.。
Don't you forget that as we build a church together.。
Last week we were in our general assembly,。
and we shared a lot of different updates, right?。
And needs.。
As our church grow together,。
we need brother and sister to come on board。
and one of the things we can do is to give.。
Because we are growing and our financial need is bigger.。
It's bigger than ever.。
It is part of the growing pain.。
And we have to remember that our work,。
our contribution will be remembered.。
Right?。
It will be rewarded.。
And don't you forget that your crown,。
our crown can be taken away.。
So let's press on, guys.。
Let's press on as a family of God to do the good work,。
to do the ministry in the name of Jesus,。
to serve Him, to build His body, to build His kingdom.。
Let's all pray together.。
Father, we come before You,。
we just open our hearts and our life.。
And we confess sometimes we are forgetful.。
Sometimes we see things using worldly standard,。
worldly perspective.。
And thus we quit.。
So we give up because we thought it's not worth it.。
But yet Your letter to us。
bring us a new and transcendent。
perspective on all the things that we do.。
Help us to follow You,。
even though we have little strength,。
but we know that our work, our ministries, our serving,。
all that we do in the name of Christ,。
all that we do for Your gospel, for Your kingdom。
will be remembered.。
And thank You for calling all of us to be Your partners。
so that we can work for Your kingdom,。
we can build up Your kingdom.。
What a glorious role and responsibility You lay on us.。
And thank You for giving us such an easy context。
in North America.。
We can follow You freely, we can serve You freely,。
and that's why we need to give You more.。
And thank You for Your blessing.。
We need to give You more to respond to Your goodness,。
to Your abundance, so that we can give more,。
we can serve You more,。
to uplift the name of Jesus in the midst of us.。
And once again, we wanna close in prayer,。
and we just wanna pray that You will make us。
into Your instrument.。
We can glorify Your name, we can bear witness。
to the goodness of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
And thank You for being our God.。
And thank You for Your love and grace。
and Your comfort and encouragement.。
Help us to press on.。
To follow You faithfully, day by day,。
in Christ's name, we pray.。
Well, God bless you all,。
and hopefully you will go out this week。
to bear witness to the name of Christ。
and serve God in the name of Christ.。
Do so by faith, and God will remember it.。
All right, see you next week.。
