Thank you.。
Well, it's great to be here today.。
I'm very excited to be here.。
And love being at UV.。
It's been a little bit since I've been here in person, but it's great to see you all and。
to see family.。
It's good.。
Spent a lot of time with a lot of you that are here, and it's great just to be around。
family again and appreciate you being here today and enjoy the worship with you all and。
just excited to be here.。
We're going to be looking in Luke chapter 10 today at this story of Mary and Martha.。
We're going to talk about choosing what is better.。
I'm going to pray real quickly as we begin, and then we'll start to look at this passage.。
God, thank you so much for the opportunity to be here today.。
Thank you for your word.。
God, thank you for how it changes us, how it forms us and shapes us.。
And I pray that would take place today, that as we consider your word together, as we read。
it, as we talk about it, that it would change who we are, that when we leave, we would be。
different than when we came in and that ultimately we'd be closer to you, God, in Jesus name.。
Amen.。
So this passage, just a few verses we're going to look at in verses 38 to 42 of Luke chapter。
10, a familiar story, but I think a lot of powerful truth for us in our lives about what。
we choose to do with our time and our resources that God has given us.。
So let's read this together.。
Luke 10, 38 to 42, it says this, "As Jesus and his disciples were on their way, he came。
to a village where a woman named Martha opened her home to him.。
She had a sister called Mary who sat at the Lord's feet listening to what he said, but。
Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made.。
She came to him and asked, 'Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to do the。
work by myself?。
Tell her to help me.'。
Martha, Martha, the Lord answered, 'You're worried and upset about many things, but few。
things are needed or indeed only one.。
Mary has chosen what is better and it will not be taken away from her.'"。
And that's what we're going to consider today, choosing what is better.。
This is a really powerful command that Jesus lays on us in this passage, but it's a little。
bit perplexing to us too, and we're drawn to the power of what Jesus is saying here.。
We want this.。
We want to choose what is better, yet sometimes we're confused about how to do so.。
What does it mean to choose better?。
What does better even mean?。
And I think that question is even more significant for us in the modern world because we live。
in a world that there are so many choices and we live in a society where there's a lot。
of affluence and there's so many options in every place that we look in life.。
And whatever we're trying to choose in that moment, there are just kind of a myriad of。
choices for us to choose from.。
If you think about something like when you get a new car.。
Now I've never bought a new car.。
I've only bought used cars, so there's less choices when you buy used.。
But sometimes when I'm dreaming or I don't have anything else to do, I have gotten online。
and looked at, you look at Tesla or whatever and you go through, build your own and customize。
and all that.。
And if you've ever done that or whatever your favorite car is, if you ever looked at a Ford。
Bronco online or a Corvette or whatever, there's so many choices that it takes forever just。
to get through all the choices because obviously you have to pick the car that you want, the。
body style, do you want an SUV, a van, a sedan or whatever?。
And then after that, you've got to pick the engine, the drive train, then you're going。
to pick the seats and the fabric and the color and what kind of radio you want and all the。
different technology options.。
It's just kind of endless amount of choices to choose something like that.。
And that is just kind of a silly illustration, but in every era of our life, we're faced。
with just kind of an overwhelming amount of choice.。
When it comes time to eat, there's so many things to choose from when we're going to。
eat, right?。
Are we going to go to a restaurant?。
Are we going to get takeout somewhere?。
And if we are going to go to a restaurant, which one are we going to choose?。
Because the whole city is full of great restaurants.。
If we're going to cook at home, what are we going to cook?。
There's so many different ingredients and recipes and options.。
There's all these different choices.。
There's ready-made meals, there's things at the grocery store, what are we going to do?。
When we think about how we're going to spend our time and entertainment and things like。
that, there's sporting events, you could go to the movies, you could go to the park, you。
could go to a concert.。
There's so many choices when you have a free night that you're going to go do something.。
Or even if you're just going to sit down and veg out on the couch and watch something on。
TV, there's limitless choices, right?。
If you have cable, you could channel surf for hours.。
I don't have cable, but we have some streaming and streaming is the same way, right?。
That's the hardest part of watching a movie or a show on streaming is actually getting。
started because there's so many things you're like, "Ah, maybe we should watch this.。
I want to check this out.。
I heard this was good."。
When I was a teenager, we had this thing.。
Some of you know what this is, but some of you, this is totally foreign to you.。
When I was a teenager, we had this thing called Video Store.。
It was a store with shelves like other stores, and on these shelves were a whole lot of DVDs.。
Some of you might know what a DVD is.。
It was just literally shelves and shelves of DVDs.。
My friends and I, when we were in high school, we would do the same thing that everybody。
does with streaming now.。
We'd go in there, spend like 45 minutes walking around the Video Store, picking up movies,。
being like, "Hey, do you want to watch this?"。
"No, I've already seen that."。
Or, "No, I heard my friend said it wasn't any good."。
It took so long just to choose.。
We still have that problem now.。
Like I said, we get on Netflix or Disney+ or whatever, streaming, and there's just so。
many choices.。
And so, what Jesus is saying here is actually really significant to us.。
And the reality is, there's so many choices in our lives that at some points, it almost。
becomes like an existential threat to us.。
We feel overwhelmed because we have so many choices to make.。
We feel like if we make the wrong choice, we're going to miss out or we're going to。
wreck our whole life.。
I remember when I was trying to choose a college feeling that way.。
I was like, "There's so many colleges in the United States.。
How could I possibly know which one is going to be best for me?"。
And it almost seemed like, you know, if I don't make the right choice, the world might。
come to an end.。
And we feel that way with a lot of our choices.。
So what Jesus is saying here, that we need to choose what is better, is really a significant。
and powerful truth to us.。
But it's difficult for us to know what He means.。
So let's look at what's going on in this passage and begin to discover what Jesus is communicating。
to us.。
First of all, we see in this passage, there's this contrast between the two sisters.。
They each have a different response to Jesus in His presence.。
He shows up at their house and they respond differently.。
But the response, the contrast here is actually more than just their behavior.。
It's really a contrast in their attitudes and in the way that they're treating Jesus.。
Sometimes I think we could look at this and see it simply as a contrast between, well,。
it's a contrast between a contemplative life and a life of work.。
And it's not really that.。
It's not just a story about, "Don't be too busy and forget to spend time with people。
you love."。
It's not that.。
I mean, those things are important, but the story is more than that.。
It's really about the hard attitudes of Mary and Martha in this story.。
It's about the posture that they take as they respond to Jesus.。
And what's happening here, Jesus and His disciples are traveling and they come to this village。
where Mary and Martha live.。
And the passage tells us that Martha invites Jesus and the disciples into her home.。
Now that's good.。
That's a really beautiful thing.。
See, Jesus and His disciples, remember, they were itinerant ministers.。
They didn't have a bunch of money.。
They didn't have, Jesus didn't have a home of His own.。
So Martha was being generous and extending hospitality, inviting them into her home.。
And we can assume from the context here, Martha's probably a pretty well-off woman.。
Since she has the space and the resources to welcome visitors into her home, she probably。
is fairly affluent.。
And her name in Aramaic actually means ruling lady.。
So she was probably a significant person, a person of influence.。
And she's probably most likely, we see this in the story as well, that she's probably。
the one who kind of makes the decisions in the home and makes sure things get done.。
She's doing something praiseworthy and good here by welcoming Jesus and His disciples.。
She's showing hospitality, generosity.。
Those are biblical values.。
That's really good stuff.。
But the word, the Greek word in verse 40 that is used to describe what she's doing is the。
word diakonia, which is a word that we get the word deacon from.。
It's a word that gives this connotation of service or ministry.。
So the point that I'm making here is that Martha's actually doing something good.。
She's ministering, she's serving, she's doing something good.。
The problem is not with what she's doing.。
Because she's doing something that she should be doing.。
She's a respectable woman, she's ministering.。
But the problem is that she's missing the best thing.。
She's doing something good, but even in doing something good, she's missing the best thing.。
And that's the point that Jesus is making.。
She's missing the one thing that is truly important, or as Jesus says in this passage,。
that is truly needed.。
Now Mary, on the other hand, here's the contrast.。
Mary is sitting at the feet of Jesus, and she's taking the posture of a disciple, a。
learner, or a follower.。
She's responding to God's presence with faith.。
She has joyful anticipation.。
If you think about what it was like for her to sit there and listen to Jesus, I'm sure。
she's leaning in and desiring to hear every word that he's saying.。
And she responds with a personal affection.。
It's very close.。
And there's trust involved, there's love.。
She's able to forget about the other tasks and pressures that she has in life, and just。
focus on being present with Jesus.。
She's valuing, this is big for us in 21st century America, she's valuing presence over。
productivity.。
That's what she's doing in this moment.。
And she's valuing a relationship over simply good works.。
Ultimately, she's valuing Jesus.。
And her response is very different.。
And this is the response that we need in our lives, that Jesus is pointing out in this。
passage and calling us to.。
Like Martha, we have a lot of good stuff in our lives, but sometimes we miss out on what。
is best because there's so much good.。
And Jesus is calling us to discover the ways that we, like Mary, can choose what is better.。
So there's three things I want us to consider in this that will help us to choose what is。
better in life.。
And the first is that we have to learn to choose identity in Christ that's grounded。
in God's grace.。
We have to choose identity in Christ that's grounded in God's grace.。
This is probably, I think, the most critical piece of choosing better.。
It's considering where we place our identity as human beings.。
If our identity is not in Christ but in anything else, our choices about our priorities and。
our time, our resources, even our happiness, will ultimately be driven by the source of。
our identity.。
And this passage, why is Martha so focused on all the stuff she has to do?。
As Jesus says, she's worried about so many things.。
Why is she worried about all that?。
We don't know exactly.。
The passage doesn't tell us.。
But I think we can imagine that it could be, one of the reasons could be, that she, like。
so many of us, is finding identity in the work that she has to do.。
You know, perhaps she really likes being the one who makes the decisions and keeps control。
of the household.。
Maybe that's an important part of her identity and who she is.。
Perhaps she feels a sense of pride in how competent and comprehensive she is in serving。
guests.。
You know, her house is well kept.。
Everything's clean in its place.。
The meal is perfectly delicious that she's putting on the table.。
And there's treats for people who come in the door.。
And there's cut flowers.。
And everything's decorated.。
And all the servants in the house are working.。
And everything's running like clockwork.。
Maybe that's really important to her in terms of her identity.。
Maybe she's kind of a Martha Stewart of her time, right?。
And that's important to her, that she knows everybody's looking at her being like, "Wow.。
Her house is amazing.。
And everything smells great.。
And it's all clean.。
And it runs perfectly."。
And maybe that's really a big part to her of who she is.。
And she feels the pressure of maintaining that facade of perfection in front of other。
people.。
Because she's like, "Everybody's expecting me to do everything and for it to be great。
and perfect.。
And I have to keep up with that appearance.。
I have to keep up that facade.。
I have to keep up that image."。
And she's feeling that pressure.。
Because ultimately, her identity is in the work that she's doing, not in Christ.。
Maybe she's feeling a sense of significance because she's doing all this important stuff.。
And if she wasn't doing those things, maybe she would feel kind of empty and wonder who。
she was, where her worth was found.。
That's so true for us as well.。
And I think that's so significant for us to consider.。
Maybe she felt like all the good stuff that she was doing somehow was earning her favor。
with God.。
Maybe she thought that what she was doing helped demonstrate to other people and to。
God that she was a good person because she was doing all this good stuff.。
And maybe Martha isn't choosing what is better.。
She's not choosing to sit at the feet of Jesus to be present with Him.。
Because she feels like she wouldn't know who she was or other people wouldn't know who。
she was without all this activity that she's doing.。
I think we have to examine our hearts because it's so easy for us to do this as well.。
How often do we place our identity as human beings in stuff other than Christ?。
In our work, we certainly, it's easy to do, right?。
A lot of us as Americans, when people ask us, when we meet someone for the first time。
and they ask us about ourselves, we start describing our work like that's who we are.。
That's not who we are as human beings.。
The job that we do.。
That's not our identity.。
But we place our identity in that.。
Sometimes it's in our education.。
We feel like our education defines who we are.。
The success or sometimes we, if we don't experience the success we want in education, we feel。
defined by failure.。
That's not who we are.。
That's not our identity.。
Our accomplishments, our skill in different things and different parts of life, our competency,。
our success, our relationships.。
Sometimes we feel like, oh, I have this identity because of who I know or who my friends are,。
who my family is.。
Our life experiences, our travel, our money, our prestige, our social media feeds, our。
Instagram, those things, if we're not careful, we start to define ourselves and think that。
that is who we are.。
That's our identity.。
And that's not true.。
Even good things in our life, like our family heritage or our religious faithfulness and。
church attendance, things like that, that are good things that God wants us to do, we。
can start to put our identity there and say, yeah, I know I'm a good person because I always。
show up at church and I try to help some other people and every once in a while I give some。
money or whatever.。
But that's not who we are.。
Our identity has to be found in Christ.。
You know, if we try to pull meaning and significance and worth from these things, then we start。
to feel good when they're going well, when our work is going well or when our something。
good is happening in our life, when we get to take the trip that we want to take or our。
school is going well.。
We feel good.。
We feel like, yeah, everything's great.。
But then when they're not going well, we feel worthless.。
We feel like who we are as a human being has been destroyed or crushed in some way.。
We feel miserable.。
And it's because we're placing our identity in something that it shouldn't be in.。
And all the while, those things that we're placing our identity in begin to take more。
and more of our time and focus and more and more of our priority in our life.。
They start to consume us and they become our priorities.。
Even if we don't plan for them to, they start to take up all of our time.。
And I want to just point out again that a lot of those things I'm talking about are。
not bad things.。
Not saying that.。
Obviously, we know if we're putting our identity in destructive, unhealthy, sinful things,。
then that's wrong.。
We shouldn't do that.。
But that's not what I'm talking about.。
I'm talking about good stuff that God actually wants us to have in our life.。
It's just we get it out of proportion, out of focus, and it becomes bigger than it should。
be.。
And that's what was happening with Martha.。
As I said earlier, she was doing good stuff.。
She just wasn't doing the best thing.。
She wasn't spending time in the presence of Jesus.。
And that happens to us too.。
It's good to work hard.。
It's good to be successful and competent.。
It's good to be faithful in church.。
Those are all biblical values.。
There's nothing wrong with seeking those things.。
The problem is when we begin to put those things in the wrong place.。
And to help us keep those things in perspective, we really have to understand the grace of。
God.。
We live righteously in life because Jesus has forgiven us and saved us and is at work。
in our lives.。
We do not live righteously so that Jesus will forgive us and save us and be at work in our。
lives.。
We have to keep that front and center.。
Like when good works come out of us, it's because God is at work.。
It's not because good works are coming out of us so that we can earn anything or so that。
we can achieve something with God or so that we can impress other people.。
And when we put our identity in something other than Christ, whether we realize it or。
not, we're seeking to derive something from those things that God never intended for us。
to get out of those things.。
And trust me, nothing in the world can support the weight of human identity.。
It's a crushing weight for us to try to find our worth in something.。
And Christ is the only thing that can support that weight.。
If we try to pull worth and identity out of our job, we'll ultimately be disappointed,。
right?。
Because our jobs can be lost.。
If we try to pull that out of a relationship, that relationship could change.。
That friend or that person in our life may not be there anymore.。
Maybe they move away.。
That can evaporate.。
Our success, our education, our prestige, those things can go away.。
People can forget about our accomplishments.。
Maybe our degree or our GPA won't mean that much to anybody.。
Those things were never meant to hold the weight of our identity.。
But Christ can.。
And here's the truth of God's Word, and this is the important part, I think, for us to。
remember in terms of identity, that we are made in the image of God, that each one of。
you has unspeakable value and worth because you're made in God's image.。
And by God's grace, if you have relationship with Jesus Christ, you've been redeemed by。
the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross.。
All of your sin and brokenness and all the mistakes and all the mess ups and all of the。
stuff in your life that has hurt you can be forgiven and healed and restored.。
That's the reality of your identity.。
But even in that, you don't bring anything to offer God.。
It's a gift of grace that Jesus does.。
We don't have to earn anything.。
We don't have to work for it.。
We're forgiven and reconciled to God because of His love for us.。
We're restored to relationship with our Creator, the God who made us and loves us because of。
His grace.。
He does all the work, and we receive all the reward.。
And that's the good news of the Gospel, that we don't have to do anything, but we're healed。
by His love and grace and mercy.。
And that's your identity.。
If you're in Christ today, that is your identity.。
You are forgiven and healed and restored and made new and covered and protected and。
loved.。
That's who you are.。
Not because of anything you do.。
Not because of anything that you have accomplished or will accomplish.。
Because of God's grace and work in your life.。
And so you can stop striving.。
You can stop trying to deserve it.。
You can stop trying to impress God or other people, and you are free to go sit in the。
presence of Jesus and enjoy His presence.。
That's where Martha was at.。
There was something that was, she felt like she couldn't go in there and sit at His feet。
because she had to do all this stuff.。
She wasn't free to say, "Yeah, I can just sit in the presence of Jesus."。
And we can feel that tension as well.。
You are free in God's grace.。
If you find your identity in Christ, to say, "You know what?。
I can go sit in the presence of Jesus, and I don't have to keep up any appearance or。
any image.。
I don't have to earn anything.。
I don't have to try to be good enough.。
Because He's loved me.。
He's forgiven me."。
That freedom allows us to choose what is better.。
The next thing I want us to see here is that we have to choose provision and peace in Christ。
that is grounded in God's goodness.。
We have to choose provision and peace in Christ.。
That's grounded in God's goodness.。
Maybe another reason that Martha is working so hard is because she's preoccupied with。
getting things done because she feels the pressure of living in our broken world where。
there's a lot of problems and there's stuff that has to be taken care of.。
Maybe that's why she can't go and sit at the feet of Jesus because she's like, "Hey, there's。
bills to pay, and there's stuff that's got to get done in this house.。
And if I'm not doing it, who's going to do it?"。
Maybe there were debts.。
We don't know.。
Or maybe she's just saying, "Hey, all the comforts of this home that Jesus is enjoying。
and the fact that Mary can sit in there and relax at His feet, that only happens because。
somebody's working, and it's me.。
So I got to keep working."。
Maybe she's feeling that pressure of the fact that we live in a broken world and nothing。
comes easy, and so she just has to keep laboring.。
And that's true.。
Those are very real concerns.。
I get that.。
All of us have those types of concerns.。
We face those issues.。
There are financial pressures.。
There are responsibilities to care for people in our families, in our churches, in our communities.。
The list of things we have to do and the bills we have to pay kind of seems to go on forever.。
And at times we can feel like we simply don't have the time to sit down and spend in God's。
presence because there's so much that has to be done.。
But what do we see about Mary in this passage?。
She does make time.。
Now is Mary sitting at the feet of Jesus because she's lazy and unconcerned?。
I don't think so.。
I don't think there's anything in this passage or anywhere else in the Gospels where it talks。
about Mary that would cause us to believe that Mary's just lazy or she doesn't care.。
That's not true at all.。
It's not that she has no responsibilities.。
I'm sure she had a lot of stuff she needed to do too.。
It's not because her life was just full of leisure and she could just sit around.。
It's not that.。
What's going on with Mary is that she has all the tasks and the responsibilities.。
She has stuff that she needs to do.。
She has pressures, but she's just saying, "No, I'm going to set that stuff aside and。
go sit at the feet of Jesus.。
And I'm not going to worry about them because I'm going to trust that if I'll make time。
for Jesus and make that important in my life, then he'll help take care of all the other。
stuff."。
She's finding the peace to sit in his presence by trusting that he's going to provide for。
the rest of the pressures of her life.。
And that's really important for us as well.。
Martha doesn't really understand this.。
We see when she comes in, she says, "Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me。
to do the work by myself?。
Tell her to help me."。
It's kind of like Martha saying, "How can she just sit here and listen to you when there's。
so much that has to be done?"。
But Mary's not sitting there because she doesn't care.。
She's not sitting there because she's being spiteful towards Martha.。
She's sitting there because she's trusting Jesus and she's saying, "This is really important。
in my life.。
This is the most important thing.。
And I'm believing that if I make time for this and if I make sure my relationship to。
Jesus is healthy and I'm spiritually healthy, then God's going to take care of the rest。
of it.。
I'm going to be able to get through the rest of it a whole lot better."。
Doesn't mean her life was easier, that she didn't have problems.。
That's true for us.。
Just because we have a relationship with God doesn't mean God's going to make all our problems。
go away or we don't have to pay bills.。
We have the same challenges everybody else has.。
But if we will choose to find provision and peace as we trust God's goodness in our life,。
then we'll find ourselves saying, "You know what?。
I am busy right now.。
I have a lot to do.。
But I can take a minute to sit in God's presence and be encouraged and be blessed by that."。
And that's what Mary is doing.。
And one of the cool things about that is as we do that, as we spend time in Jesus' presence,。
we actually start to get perspective on the problems in our life that they're not as big。
as we thought anyway.。
Remember there's this old hymn that says, "Turn your eyes on Jesus.。
Look full in His wonderful face, and the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light。
of His glory and grace."。
That's really true.。
When we're focused on the problems and the challenges in our life, they seem huge and。
insurmountable.。
But when we start doing what Mary was doing and sitting at the feet of Jesus and focusing。
on Him, spending time in His presence, suddenly the problems are not that big of a deal.。
They start to fade into the background.。
And the third thing we see here is that Mary is choosing satisfaction in God's presence.。
You know, sometimes we work and we do all this stuff because it just feels good, right?。
Maybe some of us have painful things in our life, trauma from our past that it's tough。
for us to deal with, and so it's just easier to work and to stay busy and to put our head。
down and to try to distract ourselves.。
Maybe that was going on with Martha a little bit too.。
Maybe she was discouraged from things in her life, but it was just easier to push ahead。
into her work than to actually deal with any of that.。
And that happens to us.。
The reality is that we all ache for better things in our world, because we live in a。
broken world where there's all types of pain around us, and it comes into our lives as。
well.。
And God created us for a perfect world.。
God created us for perfect relationship with Him, for perfect relationship with one another,。
for Heaven.。
And so there's a part of us that looks at our broken world and is just, we're hurt by。
it, we're frustrated, we're angry at times, we don't understand it.。
Our hearts break over it.。
And because of that heartbreak, we start to seek satisfaction in different things.。
There's a lot of unhealthy ways that we seek that, but sometimes we seek it just in work。
and business and trying to order our lives and our families and our future.。
And we feel like, if I can just kind of get everything in order the way I want, then it'll。
feel good.。
I'll feel satisfied if I can just order my own life.。
And the sad reality is we're always let down in that, because none of us, no matter how。
OCD we are, none of us can control everything and order our own life and make it all work。
out the way we want it to.。
God's always going to disappoint us or get sideways or let us down or break.。
And we have to understand that we should be finding satisfaction in God's presence.。
There's a reason that God, He did create us for good works, but as I said earlier, those。
good works are a result of what He's doing in us.。
God created us not as human doings, but human beings.。
God wants us to be with Him more than He wants us to work for Him.。
And sometimes we feel like, okay, I want to follow Jesus.。
It's all about the stuff I do.。
And God says, "Hey, yeah, I've got some stuff for you to do, but first I want you to be。
with me.。
I want you to spend time in my presence."。
And that's what Mary was choosing to do.。
Mary is finding satisfaction in the presence of Jesus, sitting at His feet.。
She is ultimately choosing, as I said earlier, His presence over productivity, over trying。
to do everything.。
She's saying, "I'm going to be most satisfied just spending time with Christ."。
Mary is choosing relationship with Jesus as a disciple, a follower, and a friend.。
She's choosing not to be distracted.。
She's not putting her identity in her activity.。
She's trusting Jesus rather than worrying about the pressures around her.。
And look at how she's relating to Him.。
She's taking the posture of a worshiper, sitting at His feet, welcoming His presence, listening,。
learning from what He's saying, being humble and attentive to His words, opening her heart。
to His truth.。
She's giving the response of a follower.。
I'm sure she had questions and fears and misgivings, but even in the midst of that, she's choosing。
to obey.。
She's being a disciple.。
She's leaving other priorities to be devoted to the time in God's presence.。
She's choosing the response of a friend.。
She's sitting, talking, laughing, just like a friend would, sharing time together.。
She's experiencing the love of Christ and responding with love.。
And she's choosing what is better.。
So I think the question for us then is how do we make that choice?。
We want to choose what is better.。
How do we make that choice?。
It seems kind of simple for Mary because Jesus was there, like, in the room.。
So you know, if Jesus was right in the other room, we could all say, "All right, let's。
go in there and have a seat."。
That's a simple choice, right?。
But in our lives, Jesus is present, but He's not physically present in the other room.。
So how do we do what Mary did and choose what is better?。
Well, it's really not as complex as it might seem to us.。
Ultimately, we choose what is better by responding to the presence of Christ, just like Mary。
did, by responding to His presence in our life.。
Jesus showed up at Mary and Martha's house.。
Mary responded by going into His presence.。
And first of all, if you don't have relationship with Christ, you respond to His presence by。
beginning relationship with Him, as we talked about earlier.。
That comes by grace, through faith, through believing what He's done on our behalf.。
It's not something we have to earn or do anything for.。
It comes by grace.。
But for those of us who already have relationship with Christ, who say, "Okay, I've already。
made a decision to know Jesus.。
I already have relationship with Christ."。
Then Jesus is already present in our lives through the presence of the Holy Spirit.。
He's with us every moment.。
So how do we respond to His presence?。
I think the answer for us to consider today is that we choose to take time with Him.。
We choose to take time sitting at His feet.。
Now like I said, His physical presence is not here, but how do we listen to His words?。
Mary sat at His feet and listened to His words.。
Well, God's given us the Bible.。
It's His words spoken to us.。
So if we want to sit at His feet, hear what He has to say to us, we spend time reading。
His word.。
And we do it in the way that we see modeled in this story.。
We take time.。
We do it slowly.。
We do it attentively.。
We do it with a heart to hear and listen and understand, not just a heart that says, "Yeah,。
I know this is kind of important.。
Like I go to church.。
I'm supposed to read my Bible.。
I'll check it off the list."。
But we say, "No, that's not the point of what I'm doing.。
The point is I want to actually hear what God has to say.。
I want to be in His presence."。
We ask questions.。
We don't rush through it.。
We pray.。
And when I say pray, I don't just mean like, "God, thank you for this food.。
Help me not to break my leg today.。
Amen."。
But taking time to really pour out our heart before God.。
If you think about a relationship, if there's any closeness in that relationship, there。
has to be communication, right?。
And the closer the relationship is, the more honest and open that communication should。
be.。
So if you're going to have a relationship with Jesus, you should be able to talk honestly。
and openly about what's in your life.。
And that's what I mean when I say pray.。
I mean sitting down with God and saying, "God, here's what's going on.。
I'm confused or I'm angry or I'm hurt or I'm frustrated.。
I don't understand.。
I'm afraid because of what's happening in my life."。
That's what I'm talking about, honestly and fully pouring out your heart before God and。
sharing your struggles and your doubts and your fears.。
Opening up your heart and saying, "God, I don't understand this.。
I don't know what's going on right now, but I'm asking you to work and I'm going to let。
you work.。
I'm going to take my hands off of it a little bit and let you do something in my life."。
Letting God speak to us, listening to what he's going to have to say as we get in his。
word.。
We choose to stay and continue in relationship and in prayer, right?。
That's one of the challenges we have as believers.。
It's easy to be like, "Okay, God, I prayed once, read a little of the Bible.。
Now I want to see the result."。
And it doesn't happen tomorrow and it doesn't happen next week.。
And then we're like, "All right, I'm done.。
I'm going to go try to do this myself or find another solution."。
But continuing to stay with God and saying, "God, I'm going to continue to let you work。
in my life."。
That's how he speaks to us.。
That's how we experience his presence.。
Choosing to find our identity in him like we talked about at the beginning, not in all。
the other stuff, but to find our identity in Christ.。
Guarding our hearts against putting our identity in something else that's not going to be able。
to support the weight of our identity.。
Believing his truth that we're loved by him, we're forgiven, that we can be healed.。
Finding our worth in who we are, created in God's image and redeemed by Christ.。
And we choose to prioritize our time in that way, right?。
If you have a relationship with someone that you love, that's important to you, you prioritize。
time with that person.。
You make sure that it happens.。
You put it on the calendar and you don't miss it.。
And you ignore other stuff to make it happen, right?。
And that's how we spend time at the feet of Jesus.。
That's how we choose what is better, like Mary was saying.。
We say, "I'm going to make sure I get time with God in his presence.。
I'm going to make sure I get time in the Word, praying, worshiping, spending time with God.。
And I'm going to prioritize it and make sure it happens consistently."。
And we do that even when, and I would say especially when, the responsibilities and。
the stress and the pressures of life are piling up.。
Because that's when it's easiest to be like, "I just don't have time right now to sit in。
God's presence."。
But that's when we need it the most.。
Maybe Mary knew that in this story.。
Maybe she was saying, "Hey, I actually have so much to do and that's why even more than。
ever I need to go sit at the feet of Jesus so that I can experience some peace that will。
get me through what's about to happen in my life."。
We've got to value that.。
We've got to choose it.。
And I think if we do, our relationship to Him will start to flourish in really life-giving。
ways.。
And we'll really discover the reward of knowing Him.。
And we'll experience His blessing.。
And we'll experience a lot of things that seem so threatening to us not being as threatening.。
That God will remove those things or they just won't be as big of a deal for us.。
What we'll ultimately experience is what Jesus says in this passage, that it will not be。
taken away.。
Everything else is going to come and go.。
But the time that we spend with God, loving Him, the time that we spend allowing Him to。
work in our lives to love other people, that ripples through eternity, right?。
The bills we pay, even our jobs, our degrees, our cars, our houses, everything else, it'll。
be gone in a few years.。
No one will remember it.。
But our relationship to God is eternal.。
The way that God uses us to love other people, that's eternal.。
The souls of other people will be in heaven for eternity or they'll be separated from。
God.。
But it's going to be an eternal impact.。
And that's what I want us to see as we close.。
If you think about Mary and Martha, I want to just kind of humanize this story for a。
second.。
It's easy for us to read Bible stories in a kind of two-dimensional way, like, oh yeah,。
they're Bible characters.。
They're like people on a felt board that move around.。
But these were real people.。
They really lived just like we do.。
And I'm sure one day when they were older, they probably told people about Jesus, right?。
Because everybody in their culture would have known about Him and wanted to hear stories.。
I'm sure they sat around with kids someday and told them, "Hey, this one time Jesus came。
to our house and He was passing through with the disciples and we invited Him in."。
And think about that.。
When they would tell those stories some days, what do you think they told about?。
Did Martha say, "Yeah, Jesus and the disciples came over.。
It was awesome.。
The pitas that I made that day were just, they were perfectly crisp."。
Is that what she was talking about?。
I really doubt it, right?。
Or every candle, I mean the wicks were trimmed at the same height.。
That's not the story that she would have told.。
She would have talked about Jesus was present in her house, in the room.。
Like, this is what He said.。
This is what it felt like to be there with Him.。
This is how loved I felt in His presence.。
This is what He said to me.。
This is how He healed something in my life.。
This is how I was forgiven by His grace.。
That's the stuff that doesn't go away.。
That's what Jesus said here.。
It will not be taken away.。
And that's true for us.。
We get so caught up in all this other stuff in life and a lot of it won't be important。
in a few years.。
But if we'll choose, like Mary, to sit in the feet of Jesus, to take time in His presence,。
to value presence over productivity and everything else.。
That's something that will not be taken away.。
We won't lose it.。
And we will remember that and we'll share it with others, what it feels like to be in。
His presence, to be forgiven, to be loved, to be accepted, and to be comforted, to be。
healed, to know Him and to grow in Him.。
That's what Jesus is calling us to, to choose that in our lives and to sit in His presence,。
to choose relationships, to spend time with Him.。
Let's pray.。
God, we thank You, again, for Your truth, for how powerful and real it is.。
And God, I just pray over all of us in this room, I know it is so easy to do everything。
else except spend time with You.。
We have so many pressures, so many things we feel like we have to do, so many things。
we feel like we want to do.。
It's hard to choose what is better.。
And God, I just ask for Your help in my life and I ask for Your help in each one of our。
lives in this room, that You would help us to choose what is better.。
Help us not to find identity in anything other than You.。
Help us not to feel like we have to work all the time because there's so many needs.。
Help us to trust Your provision, God.。
Help us not to find satisfaction in anything else.。
Help us to choose to take time to get in Your presence, to stay there, to linger there,。
to experience Your love, Your forgiveness, Your grace, to learn from You, to grow in。
You, to enjoy that time and to continue to consistently practice it throughout our lives.。
And God, please grow us in ways that glorify You, that bring us closer to You and also。
make us more able to love the people around us and to love our families and our communities,。
God.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
