Awesome. Well thank you very much for having me.。
It's great to be here and be with your pastor, Pastor Mark.。
Yeah, it's really neat for me because I was in a, so I'm in the process of。
planning a church, all people's church in the West suburbs, and Pastor Mark was。
one of the trainers, the facilitators, so it's really cool to come and be with。
you all now. So well let me pray for us before we get in.。
Father in heaven, I pray that you would be with us now.。
Bless the words of my mouth and the meditations of all our hearts. In Jesus。
name we pray, amen. Amen. What we believe about God is the most important thing。
about us. What we think about God, it's the most important thing about us. Do we。
see God as distant? Do we see God as a some kind of cosmic killjoy? It matters.。
It matters our view of God. I got four points for us today as we look at what。
Paul is saying, what Paul is saying, and just a little background here. We're。
jumping just right into the verse, these verses in Philippians chapter 3, and this。
probably comes out of my church had been going through the book of Acts for like。
a year plus, and then we jumped into Philippians because in the book of Acts,。
kind of the last half of it, we get a picture of into Paul's life as he is。
going around much of the known world at the time, 2,000 years ago, sharing about。
Christ, and the Holy Spirit is making disciples, and it's this amazing thing。
that God is doing. And then he finally gets to Rome where he's under house。
arrest, and he's under house arrest for two years as he's looking to stand。
before the Emperor Nero. And the Emperor Nero, many of you have heard of him, he was a。
pretty bad dude as we know through history. And so he's waiting, he's waiting。
for two years, and we get a few letters. We get these amazing letters of。
scripture that Paul writes during this time as he's just waiting in prison. We。
get this letter of the Philippians, we get Ephesians, we get Colossians, we get。
some of these letters. And so he's writing from under house arrest, and I。
saw that's important, that's important. And so he writes the。
Philippians, he hears how they're doing, and he has to write to them. And so。
that's where we get, starting off right here in verse 1, to write the same。
things to you is no trouble. The same thing. So he's previously instructed them,。
he knew them, he was with their right, Paul and Silas, maybe you remember that。
story growing up. And he wants to write them the same things, especially he wants。
to pinpoint, laser focus on the gospel, on the gospel. See the gospels is as Tim。
Keller says really well, not the ABCs of Christianity, but the A through Z of。
Christianity. He doesn't want them to be distracted by some other doctrine or。
teaching or something else because there's been false apostles, there's。
false teachers, and people are spreading lies about that. And so he wants us to。
look right at the gospel. And what he's talking about, I'm reminded today is。
you guessed it, no not Halloween, it's Reformation Day. It's Reformation Day.。
Yes, yes, of course. Yeah, so I'm a nerd and I got a really bad joke for you. So。
it's Halloween and some kids come to the door, they knock on Martin Luther's door.。
All right, they knock knock. "Who is it?" "Ah, trick or treat!" "No, no kids, I said 95。
feces, not 95 Reese's, okay? I don't have any candy for you. I got the gospel though."。
Okay, yeah, bad joke, bad joke. I just had to though, I couldn't resist. All right, so。
at least Pastor Mark is laughing with me, he gets the joke. All right,。
Reformation Day reminds us of how Martin Luther, John Calvin, these reformers, these。
others, they point us back to the truth because the church had gone way off and。
they reminded us of two huge things. That our trust is in the Word of。
God alone. That's our authority, God's Word. We got to find truth there, nowhere。
else. That's the ultimate place. And then secondly, that we are saved by grace. We。
are saved by grace through faith. And that's what really he is wanting to。
pinpoint and remind the Philippians of today. And I think we need that。
desperately as well. So that's what's coming up. That's what's going on. That's。
why the stupid joke. And Martin Luther, I love he said this, he says justification.。
Justification is the biblical Christian word that just means that we are saved。
by grace, we're accepted by God, we've declared and made righteous by his work,。
not our. He says justification is the article by which the church stands or。
falls. But he wants them to remember the gospel. He tells them this, "Therefore my。
brothers and sisters, you whom I love and long for, my joy in my crown, stand firm。
in the Lord this way, dear friends." He wants them to stand firm on the gospel.。
Stand firm in what I taught you. What Silas and I, what we taught you when we。
shared the gospel. And that's the same thing for us, brothers and sisters. Stand firm on。
the gospel. So that's our first point that I want us to get. We want to。
rejoice in the Lord. We rejoice in the Lord. We need to know the gospel. We need。
to stand firm on the gospel and nothing else. Friends, what are you standing firm。
on? What are you standing firm on today? Is it anything else other than the gospel?。
Then that will really be shaken. I can tell you from experience that will be。
shaken. All right. And we're just gonna continue to explore this even more.。
Second point is this, Paul has for us, is to reject works righteousness. If we。
really want to rejoice in the Lord, to take joy in knowing Christ, because。
that's what this passage is all about, then we have to reject works。
righteousness. We see that in verses 2 through 6. Look with me there. He says,。
"Watch out for those dogs, those evildoers, those mutilators of the flesh."。
Wow. He's got some strong language there. Strong language. He's not, he's not holding。
back. Dogs. All right. So he calls them dogs. So what's going on here, all right?。
What's going on here? They talk about circumcision before and maybe some。
of you get a little squeamish now. So there are these Jewish。
Christians and people who are coming in. There was this huge tension between Jews。
and non-Jews. Jews and Gentiles at the beginning of the church. And a lot of。
these Jewish Christians, some Jewish Christians were saying, "All right, you。
have to be circumcised in order to be a follower of Christ." And in fact, they so。
tied it to it that it was part of their justification, it was part of their salvation.。
That, all right, in order to know that you're really saved, you've got to be。
circumcised. All right? Maybe some Christians today, you think of, you think。
of, all right, you have to be baptized in order to be saved. It's like, all right,。
you know, you get saved because you, or you become saved, you become a follower。
of Christ, and then you get baptized. All right? But that doesn't mean it's not。
works-based. And so that's what he's getting at with this. That's what he's。
getting at. And he calls them dogs because back in the ancient world, 2,000。
years ago, it wasn't like your sweet little puppy dog, you know, it wasn't your。
nice pet dog. 2,000 years ago, all right, dogs were gross. They were filthy. No one。
had them as pets. They ran wild in the streets, okay? They were disgusting. All。
right? So he's saying, "The dogs." And you know what? It was a ethnic slur,。
actually, that Jews would use for non-Jews. They'd say, "Man, those dirty,。
uncircumcised Gentiles, those non-Jews, they're dogs." So Paul turns it around, he。
flips it around, he says, "You know what? Who really are the dogs? These people who。
are saying, 'Oh, you have to be circumcised in order to be a Christian.'"。
Because what did you have to do to be a Christian? To believe, to be saved by。
grace through faith, right? So he's saying, "All right, these evildoers, these。
mutilators of the flesh." He goes on, he says, "We are the circumcision, who。
worship by the Spirit of God in glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in。
the flesh." So he's saying, "You need to reject works righteousness. You're not。
saved by this ritual, all right? No, you're saved by faith." Circumcision in the Old。
Testament was never meant to be a thing that, "Oh, that's a work that。
saved you." No, it was a sign. It pointed to the reality that you had been。
saved, that sin has been cut away in your life and now you're a follower of God.。
I love this. He goes on, verse 4, let's keep going, "Though I myself have reasons。
for such confidence." So now Paul is, all right, he's worked up here. He's like,。
"All right, if you want to say some confidence in the flesh of what our。
works are, he doesn't want them to be that way." So he says, "All right, I have。
some confidence in my flesh that I could talk about. If someone else thinks he has。
reasons to put confidence in flesh, I have more." All right? So then Paul goes。
into this and he has seven things that he can have confidence in, all right, that。
he was this amazing Jewish person, all right, circumcised on the eighth day.。
All right, you were supposed to do that according to Leviticus, according to the。
command of God, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin. All right,。
Benjamin, that tribe was one that sometimes stayed more faithful to God。
when other tribes fell away from God throughout Old Testament history. He was。
a Hebrew of Hebrews. All right, what does that mean? All right, we know, we already。
know you're Jewish, Paul, okay? No, so what that meant was that he was not only。
Jewish, but he actually spoke Aramaic and his parents spoke Aramaic. That was the。
Hebrew language of the day. So he's saying, "I don't just speak Greek, I speak,。
man, I'm..." So he's building his credential, all right? His resume is building. He's like,。
"Man, wow." All right, he keeps going though. In regard to the law of Pharisee,。
Pharisees were regarded as the strictest kind of Jewish sect at the time. There are。
a few kind of branches, if you will, of Judaism, and Pharisee, that was strict, and。
he was climbing that ladder. As for zeal, persecuted the church. I persecuted the。
church. Man, I was so zealous for my faith in God, I was such a good Jewish boy that,。
man, I held the cloaks for those, I held the coats, I was the coat rack for those,。
who stoned Stephen, the first Christian martyr. You can go back and look at。
that, it's like Acts 7, I think. I persecuted the church. As for。
righteousness based on the law, faultless. As for righteousness based on the law,。
faultless. All right, so this doesn't actually mean that Paul was without。
sin. You can read Romans 7, you can read a lot of the rest of his letters, he is。
very... He says, "I'm the chief of all sinners. I'm the worst." Right? But he said, "On the。
outside, I kept all the laws. On the outside, it looked like I was perfect."。
That's what he's talking about here. So he's telling, all right, this is...。
Paul's supposed to sound just crazy. All these things, though, they sound very,。
very good. The Jews would be wowed by his resume, you know? Maybe for some of you,。
maybe some of you young people who are looking to go to college, or went to。
college, or going to get your master's, or whatever. Man, you did so many。
extracurriculars, right? And you're Asian too, I know how it is. No, I'm just kidding.。
Hey, hey, yeah, exactly. I shout out because I grew up in San Francisco Bay Area. I was。
talking to Pastor Mark before on this. I was just back after 11 years, San。
Francisco Bay Area. And I got a lot of my Asian friends there, man. All the Asian。
love, man. I'm telling you. All my friends were Chinese, and all my friends,。
most of my friends were Asian because I was in the honors AP classes, right? They。
were in the honors AP. So they were all Asian. I'm just saying, I'm just saying. I。
know how it is. I know your parents and how your parents are. Yeah, there you go.。
But yeah, maybe you were building that resume to try to impress your parents.。
But maybe you keep doing that to try to impress God. Man, God, I've done this for。
you. I've sacrificed. I went on that mission trip. Man, I'm praying hard. I'm。
reading my Bible. It's just the same thing like circumcision. All right, I'm。
all right. That'll make me earn your approval. I know for me, I was just。
the same way, a huge way. I remember when I was in college, I became part of this。
church. And it was a very passionate church. There were a lot of good。
things there. I remember I was coming out of a, I've shared with many people in my。
church, I deal with situational depression. And I had the worst, my。
first bout when I was 17. And I would have been depressed out of my mind. I had。
considered myself before that a mature Christian. But God really humbled。
me. And so I have all that baggage and I'm going, I come out here to the Midwest。
to go to school. I go to Wheaton College. And right, it's just this, supposed to be。
this evangelical flagship that just, and there's, I'm on a dorm floor and there's。
40 other Christian guys. And you know, we were praying in the classroom. I have。
professors who are Christian. I go to chapel three times a week, three times.。
Chapel. I get involved in this passionate church, right? I go on mission trips. Man,。
God totally changed my life through this dorm discipleship group, these。
guys. He started to bring me out of this depression and really restore my。
relationship with him again. This group was so intense that it meant three。
nights a week as a very rigorous academic school. Three nights a week. This。
meant, and they totally changed my life. I got real with these other guys and。
they got real with me about their lives and we encouraged each other. And so I。
just wanted to share my faith with others as well. And I would go to some。
local campuses, college campuses, and share my faith with them. And I would go。
one to three times a week to share the gospel with people at campuses. I started。
leading small groups with my church. I was passionate and I would fast。
one or two times a day because I want to set apart time to meet with God. I would。
spend two or three hours in the morning meeting with God. You know, after a couple。
years of all that, I remember at one point I was trying to spend just a few。
minutes with God. This was after I was married and my wife and I, our picture of。
the world and our worldview of Christianity had been totally turned upside。
down just a few months before because we had realized some very dysfunctional。
things about that church. It was very passionate but it was so works。
oriented. And I had this huge burden on my shoulders of self-righteousness。
because I was a Pharisee of Pharisees, guys. See, I had an impressive resume too.。
On the outside I looked really good, but man on the inside I felt like dead man's。
bones. And that's Paul's story too. And so he's passionate about telling the。
Philippians here, "Man, trust in the gospel of grace." Preaching the gospel to。
yourself. It requires us, you see here, "reject works righteousness." He says, "All。
right, reject it. Don't put it, base it on anything else, your own works, your own。
goodness, whatever, other than Christ's goodness, His grace." All right, let's keep。
going. Third point, "Remain in faith righteousness." Remain in faith。
righteousness. We see this in verses 7 through 11. "But whatever were gains to me。
I now consider loss for the sake of Christ." So if you will, he's got。
these two columns, right? Your gains and losses column. He says, "All right,。
just as I went through all these gains, he went through all these gains. I'm a。
Hebrew of Hebrews. I was circumcised on the eighth day. I was a Pharisee. I。
persecuted the church. Man, I was there. I was so passionate for God." He's got。
all these gains. He says, "You know what? They're in the losses column now.。
Every single one of them. Every single one of them. Where gains to me now I。
consider as a loss for the sake of Christ. What is more?" He goes further,。
verse 8, "I consider everything a loss because of the surpassing worth of。
knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things." Remember,。
he's in house arrest in Rome. Man, he's been shipwrecked a couple。
times. He's been beat with rods. He's suffered the lashes. He's been stoned. One。
time they thought he was dead. He was just been stoned. They were about to。
make him, they were about to sacrifice to him. They were calling him Zeus and。
Barnabas, him Hermes and Barnabas Zeus. They were about to make sacrifices to。
him. And then some Jews come in and they start stoning him. Man, what a。
contrast there. They thought he was dead, but he ends up getting up. This guy had。
been through so much, right? He says, "All right, because of this grace, because this。
free gift of grace, not works righteousness, lost all things because I。
want to know Jesus. I want to know Jesus. I consider them garbage." So not only。
are they in the loss column, but I consider them garbage. That's this word。
that means refuse. Refuse. So I want to say then, just think about what this word。
means. They didn't have running water or a sanitation system like we do now.。
Nuff said. Refuse. He says, "All these good works, I consider them refuse and be found。
in him." Verse 9, "Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from。
the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ." The righteousness from。
God on the basis of faith.。
It's amazing. It's good news. It is good news. We're learning to preach the。
gospel to ourselves. We need to learn to preach the gospel to ourselves to know。
this. So what is it for you? Maybe is it your own purity? Maybe that your。
parents are Christian? That you're Christian? That you go to church? Maybe。
you've done some significantly good things in your life? Your knowledge of。
the Bible? Your giving? Your overall just you're a good moral person? Is。
that what you're basing your acceptance with God in? Or is it in Christ's work?。
Verses 9, he talks about the life of righteousness. That we're saved by faith。
alone, Luther said, but that faith that saves is not alone. So how do we remain。
in faith righteousness? Yeah, we keep on rejecting it. We find ourselves in that.。
We encourage ourselves in that. That it's by grace. We keep on preaching that to。
ourselves, but we also want to continue. We want to obey. We want to keep。
following Christ. And this is amazing what he says here. Let's keep going on.。
Verse 9, he says, "And be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that。
comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ." I want to know。
Christ, yes. I want to know the power of the resurrection and participation in。
sufferings, becoming like him in his death, and so somehow attaining to the。
resurrection of the dead. That I may know him. Man, we make life about so many。
things, guys, right? But do you, every day, do you get up and say, "All right, I want to。
know Jesus today. At the end of today, I want to know Jesus." He says, "I want the。
power of his resurrection." What's the power of his resurrection? The power to。
save sinners. That sinners are saved. That, all right, we get the righteousness of。
Christ because he got all our sin on the cross, and God punished him for that. But。
then that means we get the righteousness of Christ. That's amazing. The power of。
the resurrection is also God saves us through Jesus on the cross, but then he。
also helps us to live a life of love, of loving others, of loving God. It's the。
power to live holy lives. That I may share in his sufferings. Man, did you see。
that this last week? Did you say like, "Man, you know what? I want to share in the。
sufferings of Jesus." I doubt most of you said that. Man, we might not be persecuted。
in a way that Paul is, but we will in other ways. If we're sharing the gospel,。
we can do that. If we're living as Christians, as we just go through。
hardship in our lives because of the choices that we make to follow Jesus,。
it's gonna be difficult. It is hard to be a Christian. The way is narrow, and it's。
hard, but it leads to life. He says, "Becoming like him in his death." Becoming。
like him in his death. That we also can die to ourselves. We can die to our sin。
to follow him. That he would attain the resurrection of the dead. So don't get。
Paul wrong. He's saying, "Once saved, always saved," but we have to endure to the。
end. He's encouraging that you have to continue to follow Christ. It's the cross。
before the crown. That we die before we can live, and we do that each day in our。
lives. So how do we, again, rejoice in knowing Christ? We remain in faith。
righteousness. In our righteousness, we are righteous because of our faith in him,。
not our own works. Fourthly, fourth point, he says to reside in his work of。
righteousness. We rest in his work of righteousness. We see this in verses 12。
and also through the end of the passage in 4.1. How do we do this? How do we do。
this? I love there's this, there's this line in the book of Hebrews, and he's。
talking about the rest of God. The rest of God. The Sabbath rest for God's。
people. And he says, "You know, man, you guys need to rest." He says, "How do you do that。
though? You strive." What? "You work really hard to not work." So what he's saying is,。
you got to work, you got to fight to remain in his righteousness. That it's。
not your work to be accepted by God. You got to work at that. You got to work to。
also live a life of holiness as you continue, because he wants to strain。
toward the goal. We see this in verse 12. He says, "Not that I have already obtained。
this." Alright, so I'm not with Christ fully now. I'm not in heaven. I'm。
not arrived at that goal. I'm not perfect, but I press on to take hold of which。
for which Christ Jesus has taken hold of me. Alright, so I can I can strive for。
that because, man, I'm already Christ. He took hold of me. Can you get out of。
Christ's hand? No. How absurd would that be? How can you go out of God's hand? So I。
want to keep on going to make Christ my own. I want to press on, take hold of it.。
It's like this picture, right? I love the great artist, sculptor, Michelangelo,。
right? You guys probably know that famous statue of David, picture of David,。
and Michelangelo was asked, "Alright, how do you do this?。
You produce these amazing works, sculptures and works of art. How do you。
do this?" He says, "I just..." See, back then what they'd get is this big。
rectangular or block of marble, just huge massive block of marble, alright? And he。
says, "I would look at the block of marble and I would see the man in there. I would。
see the man in there and I just have to try to call it out. I have to like bring。
it out of there." Isn't that beautiful? But how he does that, there's this block of。
marble and he would have to go over there and have this huge block and slowly chip。
away at this block of marble all around it to get this amazing, just very。
intricate, detailed body of David that we see. That's what God does to us. Holiness,。
striving toward God, is as we continue to reside, to rest in his work for us,。
we have to press on toward the goal. It's painful at times. He's chipping it away。
at our sinful nature, but that prize, he says, "The prize is the fullness of。
rewards and joys in heaven." And so he sets his eyes on that, the fullness of。
the rewards and joys in heaven. It's this perfect life with Christ forever.。
Verse 17, he says this, he says, "Join together in following my example,。
brothers and sisters, just as you have us as a model. Keep your eyes on those who。
live as we do." Alright, so look at me, look at your Christian leaders, look。
at your pastor here, look at the leaders and mentors that you guys have. To imitate。
them, imitate them, to have godly discipleship. Maybe some of you need to。
say, call up or text someone in the church and say, "You know what? I need to。
talk to you. I love, I need your help in following Christ. Let's do this together.。
Let's follow Christ together." That's huge. That's massive. That has totally changed。
my life, walking with other believers, walking with other men of God who I want。
to be like, and we can sharpen one another.。
Verse 18, "For as I have often told you before and now tell you again, even with。
tears, many live as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their destiny is destruction.。
Their God is their stomach. Their glory and their shame, their mind is set on。
earthly things." So what's he talking about here? So these are these Judaizers,。
again, who, they're on a self-salvation project. They're saying, you know, you need。
to add these dietary laws, you need to add this circumcision, whatever, so it's。
Jesus plus something equals your acceptance with God, rather than just。
Jesus equals your acceptance with God. He's wanting to add these things to them.。
And Paul says their destiny is final judgment. They worship themselves. That's。
what we're talking about. They worship their belly. They just worship。
themselves. Man, when I was so burdened by my own self-righteousness and just。
living, I was just always navel-gazing, as I like to say. I just。
always like, "Man, how am I doing? Am I doing good? Am I doing enough for God? Man,。
that's so exhausting, right? That's so exhausting." He says the things that we。
can do, the earthly things, the works of the flesh, they're consumed with earthly。
things, rather than Christ's external work, His work. Verses 20 through 21, here's。
another thing that the Philippians could have boasted. He says, "But our citizenship。
is in heaven." You see, Philippi, they thought they were all that, because they。
were a Roman colony. So they're like, "You know what? I get free taxes. How cool。
would that be, right? Free taxes." I mean, what am I saying? Free tax. That's what we。
get all right. No. They had freedom from taxes. They wouldn't get taxed, because。
they were a Roman colony. And so everyone there who was born there, you were a。
citizen automatically. You had this special thing. It was the status at。
the time. And so he's saying, "All right, your citizenship is in heaven. It's not。
with Caesar. It's not with Rome, right? So our identity, right? Our identity is not in。
our performance. It's not in other people's approval of us. It's our identity is in。
Christ, in heaven. And from there, we eagerly await a Savior, the Lord Jesus。
Christ, who by the power that enables Him to bring everything under His control。
will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like His glorious body." So he。
says, "All right, there's the prize. There's the prize." He's using that imagery of the。
ancient world. They were really big into sports, just like we are today. And。
there was that image of a wreath that at the finish line, that they would be。
given this crown, this wreath. And he's saying, "All right, there's this prize you can go for。
of reaching Christ, of running the race." And he's saying, "Yeah, I know it's hard to。
transform your lowly bodies because right now we are dying every day, right?。
We're dying every day. We're fighting against sin. We're slugging it out。
and different hardships in our lives. But he says, "One day, we'll have a glorious body.。
We're gonna have a glorious body. Perfection is coming." He says, "Therefore,。
brothers and sisters, with you whom I love and long for," he wants to see them。
again, "my joy and my crown." There's that crown, that imagery, right? "My joy and my。
crown. Stand firm in the Lord in this way, dear friends." He says, "Keep on going.。
Remain in the gospel. Remain faithful." And maybe some of you need to hear that。
now. You know, the uncertainty of maybe things with COVID, uncertainty maybe with。
things with your job, things with how your future is gonna be maybe after。
graduation, with a relationship you're in, with your family dynamics. I don't know。
what's going on with you. Just stay firm in the gospel. Just stay firm in following。
Christ because we can rejoice in Christ because His work for us, not our work,。
that saved us. That we are totally accepted by God. Just as Christ is。
accepted, He treats us the same way. We are accepted before God. That is a good。
news. I'll close with this. You know, it reminds me, we can rejoice in Christ.。
We can rejoice in knowing Him, that we know Him. It's like this. It can be。
like marriage. It can be like falling in love. Have any of you fallen in love?。
She's saying that, you know, as her husband, I think, is next door. You know,。
you'll do, you'll do. People in love are crazy. They'll do anything. They're nuts,。
right? You know what I'm saying? They're nuts. They're crazy. You'll do anything.。
They start acting weird ways, right? I just, you know, you're like, you're like,。
"Oh, I thought I knew him. Like, I thought he would never, you know, we were still。
gonna be friends. Now it's like, she came in and it's like, who are you?" You know,。
they start doing crazy things. You know, public displays of affection.。
I thought, I never thought that they would do that. People in love are crazy. You'll do。
anything for that person. You didn't care about anything else. But imagine this.。
Imagine, each of you, you're married to Mr. Law. Imagine with me here. You're。
married to Mr. Law. And Mr. Law, he likes everything very particular. He likes。
everything very particular. So he would come home every day at 5. He eats the。
same breakfast every morning. He comes out at 5. He demands a kiss and dinner on。
the table. You always had to look just right for him. Otherwise, you'd hear from。
it. You could never really be real in your authentic self with Mr. Law. No, you。
definitely couldn't be. All the time, you just felt like you were striving to be。
good enough. You never felt good enough for him. Like, sure, yeah, he'd married you,。
but no matter how desperately hard you try, you always felt like you were just。
letting him down. And in fact, he would tell you that. He would tell you that. You。
were never good enough for him. You're always working on yourself. You're always。
trying to gain his approval. But then one day, Mr. Law died. And Mr. Faith。
Righteousness came. I sound like Pilgrim's Progress, John Bunyan or。
something right here. Jesus comes. Mr. Righteousness by faith. Mr. Grace. He。
comes and he sweeps you off your feet. Indeed, it seemed he always loved you, no。
matter all your deep shortcomings. He always put your needs above his.。
Every day, every moment, he was dying to himself for you. He always took out the。
trash. He cleaned the bathroom. With him, you were still so very in touch with。
your massive shortcomings. You just felt even more like, "Man, I'm so messed up." But。
you knew how much he loved and accepted you. You always found yourself actually。
just loving him more. Loving life more. Loving other people more. And you were。
slowly even changing and becoming a better person. That's what Paul talks。
about in the letters. And I think what he's getting at here, he says in。
Romans, he writes this. He says, "Likewise, my brothers and sisters, you have。
died to the law." You were married to Mr. Law. You died through the body of Christ。
so that you may belong to another. That's marriage language. To him who has been。
raised from the dead that you may bear fruit for God. For a while, you are still。
living in your flesh. Your sinful passions aroused by the law were at work。
in your members to bear fruit for death. But now you're released from the law.。
You're no longer under this. You have to earn your way. But Christ earned。
your way for you, having died to that which held us captive. Friends, I want。
you, I want myself to know the joy rejoicing to knowing Christ. Here's how。
you do this. Paul says right here, "Rejoice in the Lord."。
Reject works righteousness. Remain in faith righteousness. Rest in his work of。
righteousness. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you that you sent Jesus。
and we're reminded of that today. Lord, that what you do, you did what the law。
couldn't do. Lord, I pray that we would rejoice. We'd have so much joy flowing。
out of our lives because we know Jesus. That we would make our life about that.。
That we would revel in what you've done. That we would reject any other kind of。
righteousness, any kind of way of making ourselves acceptable to you God, whatever。
that may look like. In Jesus' name I pray, amen.。
