- Alright, before we turn to scripture,。
why don't we spend some time to pray together, alright?。
Why don't we spend some time to pray?。
And before we pray, I want to ask you a question,。
you know, in the presence of God.。
Is there anything, something in your heart,。
in your mind you have to unload?。
Alright, maybe some worries, maybe some issues,。
maybe some challenges in your life.。
Maybe some anger, some depression,。
some of the unhappy feelings.。
God can take it, you know?。
And this is the best moment we can come before God, alright?。
Let's spend a minute or two, pray to God.。
Father, we do come before you knowing。
that you are our loving God.。
And you can take all the garbage in our mind and our heart.。
No matter what that is, with the worries that we have,。
the despair that we sense, or the challenges。
that we are facing, and we are exhausted,。
we are just drained.。
We can come before you knowing。
that we can cast our burdens to you.。
Thank you for being our loving God.。
Thank you for even taking all this emotions,。
even so-called negative emotions.。
You can take it.。
And thank you for being there to listen to us,。
to being with us.。
Thank you for the fact that you are leading our church,。
leading our lives, and we come before you to know that,。
to acknowledge that you are our strength.。
Grant us the strength that we need.。
For those who are studying, for those who are coming。
to the end of the semester, with final exams。
and all the assignments, and I pray that you will grant。
each and every one of us the wisdom, the strength,。
the discipline to go on, knowing that your grace。
is always sufficient.。
For those who are struggling with family matters。
and the demands from our work,。
we do know that you are our rock,。
and we can depend on you, we can rely on you.。
And that's why we come to worship you.。
That's why we come to give thanks to you,。
to count the blessing that you are still providing for us.。
And thank you very much for being our father,。
being our God.。
And most of all, thank you for the love and salvation。
that we have in Christ Jesus, that we are your people.。
We are your sons and daughters.。
Thank you, in Christ name we pray.。
Now we come to our mini series。
on the pagan kings in the Bible.。
And last week, we talked about one of the pagan kings,。
who is Cyrus the Great.。
Cyrus the Great is a Persian king.。
And today we're going to chapter five。
of the book of Daniel, all right?。
If you have your phone and you have your Bible,。
please turn with me to chapter five of Daniel.。
If you can find the book of Daniel,。
it is in the Old Testament,。
especially in the prophetical books,。
one of the prophetical books, all right?。
So we're gonna talk about this king,。
it's called Belsasha.。
Let's go back to this timeline.。
I kind of zoom into this timeline we share from last week.。
And we talk about Cyrus.。
You can see Cyrus on here, right in the middle,。
right at the bottom.。
Cyrus, who became the emperor of the Persian kingdom.。
And at the same time, that was the last,。
very last period of the Babylonian kingdom,。
the Babylonian empire from 626 to 539.。
And you see on top, there's a bar.。
There were two kings, right?。
Nebuchadnezzar and Belsasha.。
And I talked to you about how we going to approach。
studying the figures in the Bible,。
especially the pagan kings.。
First of all, we have to profile them, right?。
We have to profile them from scriptures。
or from sources outside of the Bible.。
And then we come to the Bible,。
and let's see what the Bible says about pagan kings,。
about this or this king.。
So in the end of Babylonian empire,。
there were two kings ruling the empire.。
The top one is Nebuchadnezzar,。
and the guy below him is his eldest son,。
his firstborn son, Belsasha,。
which is mentioned in the book of Daniel chapter five.。
And this is a funny story,。
and I want to go through this story with you.。
But you need to understand。
at the end of the Babylonian empire,。
when the power of Babylon is declining。
and the empire is coming to a crumbling。
and collapsing, and the last king is Belsasha.。
Belsasha is the co-region of his father, Nebuchadnezzar.。
And we are coming to the year 539, 539.。
And some of the background here,。
when Nebuchadnezzar became king, it was year 555.。
And for some reason, he ruled the Babylonian kingdom。
for a few years, and then he left the capital.。
And then he moved to an oasis in northern Arabia。
for 10 years.。
And he's kind of a very strange character,。
even for historians,。
is trying to understand why he moved away from the capital.。
And then when he moved away from the capital,。
he gave his kingship and trusted kingship。
to his son, Belsasha.。
So that's why we have two kings there.。
The top guy, number one, is Nebuchadnezzar.。
And then the second guy is called Belsasha,。
his firstborn son.。
And practically, Belsasha in the Bible or in history。
is the last king of Babylonian empire.。
So that's when we come to chapter five of Daniel.。
And this is a funny story.。
So I want to go through some of the content of this story。
and to think about what the Bible or what God sees。
in this king.。
Chapter five, verse one.。
King Belsasha gave a great banquet。
for a thousand of his nobles and drank wine with them.。
While Belsasha was drinking his wine,。
he gave orders to bring in the gold and silver goblets。
that Nebuchadnezzar, okay, Nebuchadnezzar,。
Nebuchadnezzar's father had taken from the temple。
in Jerusalem so that the king and his nobles。
and his wives and concubines might drink from them.。
What do you think?。
As a big banquet, I don't know if you've been。
to a big banquet before.。
The biggest one I've been to is like 100 tables.。
It's huge in a hotel conference room.。
You know, people are so happy and we just drink。
all we want, open bar and all that.。
It's kind of like this situation here.。
Belsasha, chapter five of Daniel.。
So he gave a great banquet to thousands of his noble。
and all his cabinet and new government officials。
are gathered together, his wives and his concubine。
and everyone is drinking.。
And then, you know, all of a sudden,。
he gave the order to have the vessels。
that his so-called father or the founder。
of the Babylonian empire, Nebuchadnezzar.。
Oh my God.。
Nebuchadnezzar.。
And then he captured the temple of Jerusalem.。
You remember that?。
586 BC.。
And then he took some of the vessels,。
gold and silver vessels, or maybe the Ark of the Covenant。
as well, so all the valuables, all the precious things,。
he captured from the temple and he captured them。
to his capital, Babylon.。
Now, Belsasha came much later.。
He was having a big banquet and then he was so happy,。
I guess, and then he used some of the vessels。
from the temple of Jerusalem.。
So it's a big banquet and then he used some of the vessels,。
you know, cups and plates and instruments。
from the Jerusalem temple to use them to drink wine.。
You see?。
To drink wine.。
Now, a little bit background here.。
Whenever the Bible talks about banquet,。
it's not just a wedding banquet.。
It's not just a happy party together.。
It always has religious and political meaning.。
So when the king gathers his cabinet, right here,。
and he make offerings to all the gods.。
So when they get together having food and feast together。
and then drink together, it has political。
and religious reason.。
And the reason being, they want to please the gods.。
Please the gods of the kingdom.。
Please all the gods and the purpose is to secure。
the approval of the gods.。
It's to secure their blessing,。
especially for the coming year.。
So usually this kind of banquet, this kind of feasting。
happens in New Year.。
In the New Year, they want to secure the approval。
of the gods for the coming year.。
So that's why they gather the temple vessels,。
not only from Jerusalem, but from other places.。
Remember Babylon captured, you know,。
pretty much the whole world back then.。
And then they destroy some of the temples。
and they capture their gold and silver vessels。
and brought them to the capital.。
So this is the scene that, you know,。
not only the Jerusalem vessels are being used,。
all these other gods' temple vessels。
are being brought together for them to drink wine.。
And what they do is that they will offer sacrifices。
and libation to the gods for the purpose of,。
you know, pleasing the gods so that the gods will bless you.。
So in short, the purpose is to secure。
the approval of the deities, to please them。
so that they will bless his plan and bless his policies。
for, especially for the coming year.。
So in such a banquet, the king would expect the gods。
to be happy, you know, to rob us of their plans.。
So here, this story, the funny thing is,。
when the king expected the gods to say something,。
God did show up.。
God did show up.。
And that's the most surprising thing.。
Verse five and following.。
And suddenly, the fingers of a human hand appear。
and roll on the plaster of the wall。
near the lampstand in the royal palace.。
And the king watched the hand as it rolled,。
his face turned pale and he was so frightened。
and his knees knocked together and his legs gave way.。
Now that's the funny thing.。
You expect gods to say something。
and then here the true gods show up, all right?。
So this is a story of the origin of the English idiom,。
writing on the wall, right?。
And that's where it come from, writing on the wall.。
What he saw was there's a hand writing something on the wall。
and it is pretty interesting and also surprising.。
If you've been to like British Museum。
or there's a very, very good museum in Chicago,。
you know that?。
It's called Oriental Museum, University of Chicago.。
Anyone been there?。
No?。
Oh my God.。
Oh, you've been there, good.。
That's great, that's great.。
Yeah, there's only one person here.。
This is the Oriental Museum in University of Chicago。
is a world-class museum and it's also free.。
You know, it takes free donation.。
Someday maybe we should go there for a field trip, all right?。
There's tons of things you can see.。
If you pay attention to the wall reliefs。
in the Assyrian or Babylonian gallery,。
there's no space on the wall.。
It's not like our side drywall.。
There's no spaces on the wall you can put something on it。
because every single inch of the wall。
is filled with either the king's figure。
or the god's figures or trees and the lion hunt。
and all that stuff.。
There's no space in the wall。
and that is the most surprising things.。
There's no space in the wall。
but all of a sudden a human hand show up。
and trying to write something on the wall.。
Now, this is from Daniel five.。
And then once they saw the writings,。
no one can interpret the writings on the wall.。
And you can imagine scenes like this.。
This is the famous painting by,。
in the 17th century,。
talking about this story.。
When the king look to the wall,。
all of a sudden there was some writings showing up.。
And they're trying to interpret the meaning。
or the significance of those writings.。
And 518, it says,。
Daniel is being called up。
because he is the only guy in the court,。
in the empire, who can interpret like this kind of writings.。
What does it mean?。
So he's being called up to the king。
and Daniel said,。
O king, the most high God gave your father, Nebuchadnezzar,。
sovereignty and greatness and glory and splendor.。
And he, Daniel also talk about how God had humble his father。
or great grandfather, Nebuchadnezzar,。
when he was filled with pride.。
That is from the previous chapter, Daniel four.。
And now, writings show up on the wall,。
writings on the wall.。
And Daniel said,。
no, you have forgotten how God has humble。
your great grandfather.。
518.。
And then 22.。
He said, but you, his son,。
as his later generation,。
O Belsusha, you have not humbled yourself,。
though you knew all this.。
Instead, you have set yourself up against the Lord of heaven.。
You praise the gods of silver and gold。
and of bronze, iron, wood, and stone,。
which cannot see or hear or understand.。
But you did not honor the God who holds in his hand。
your life and all of your ways.。
You have seen how God had humble previous king,。
and now you are filled with pride。
because you took the vessels from the Jerusalem temple。
and you thought that God would approve you。
or God would be pleased.。
No, Daniel said, God is not pleased.。
524.。
Therefore, God sent a hand that wrote the inscription,。
and this is the inscription that was written.。
Many, many, tickle, passing.。
What do they mean?。
Of course we don't know, right?。
Many, many, tickle, passing is Aramaic.。
Aramaic, it's not Hebrew, it's not Greek.。
Part of the Old Testament is written in Aramaic,。
and many, many, or many, many means number,。
counting, one, two, three, four, five.。
And it's repeated twice to stress that。
God's decision is certain.。
It will be fulfilled because God is counting the numbers.。
What kind of numbers?。
We have to interpret it.。
And then tickle means waiting.。
Waiting, like putting things on scale, you know?。
Passing means divided, divided or separation.。
So the message literally means numbered,。
numbered, weighted, and divided.。
And those words are, as I said, in Aramaic,。
and Aramaic was the international language of the time.。
Remember what year was that?。
539, right?。
Sixth century BC.。
In the ancient New Year's world,。
the international language at that time was Aramaic.。
So the king and the officials were actually able。
to read Aramaic.。
Many, many, tickle, passing, they can read it.。
What they don't understand, or they need someone。
like Daniel to interpret, is what it means.。
What does it really mean?。
What those words mean or signify?。
So they need some help, and Daniel is trying to help them。
to give them the interpretation.。
What does it mean?。
Many, many, tickle, passing?。
Number, number, weighted, and divided.。
And Daniel comes along and he said,。
"This is what these Aramaic words mean.。
"Many, God has numbered the days of your reign。
"and brought it to an end."。
Tickle, you have been weighed on the scales。
and found wanting, so you don't match up.。
Paris, or passing, your kingdom is divided。
and will be given to the Medes and Persians.。
So these words are actually God's evaluation。
of Belsash's kingdom.。
And God is using these words to pronounce。
his upcoming judgment on Belsash.。
529, "Then at Belsash's command,。
"Daniel was clothed in purple,。
"a gold chain was placed around his neck,。
"and he was proclaimed the third highest ruler。
"in the kingdom."。
Now, why the third?。
Why number three?。
Why number three?。
Remember the background?。
The top guy was Nebuchadnezzar.。
Nebuchadnezzar.。
The second guy is Belsash, right here.。
And then because Daniel could interpret。
the significance of the message, or the words,。
he is now being promoted to the third.。
You see what I'm saying?。
Now, before the archeologists find the name Belsash,。
people are doubting about the reliability of scripture.。
They were saying there's no king called Belsash in this world。
and then all of a sudden, some British guy。
came to the Middle East some years ago。
and then he was taking in the archeological site。
and then they find some cuneiform tablet,。
some clay tablet, and then they translate it。
and then Belsash was being mentioned。
as the eldest son of Nebuchadnezzar.。
And now we know why this verse says Belsash。
is raising Daniel to the position number three。
in his kingdom.。
Because Nebuchadnezzar, Belsash, and then Daniel.。
Now this is also interesting.。
Not only the reliability of scripture,。
but it also makes perfect, kind of interesting。
is that Belsash knows that these are the meanings。
of the words I will make, that God is counting down。
his kingdom, but Belsash did not know。
that his kingdom is coming to an end so quickly.。
You know, faster than he imagined.。
In the last verse of this passage, verses 30 and 31,。
that very night, Belsash, king of Babylonians,。
was slain and Darius the Mede took over the kingdom。
at the age of 62.。
Now Darius the Mede is also another question here,。
but it should refer to Cyrus the Great.。
So that night, that night, that very night,。
Cyrus came and Persian kingdom took over Babylon.。
And from secular history, we know we can even。
find out what that day is.。
It's October 12th, 539 BC, October 12th.。
We can calculate so precisely that we know October 12th,。
the army of Persian kingdom march into the capital city,。
Babylon, of Babylonian empire,。
and then the empire crumbles and it fell.。
It happened overnight.。
Now what are the take-homes from this story,。
this interesting story from Belshasha?。
First, it says clearly that God is sovereign。
over all earthly powers.。
All the earthly kingdoms are in God's hands。
and God's power is transcendent over all of them.。
Any kingdom, in the ancient time, Babylonian kingdom,。
Persian kingdom, Greek kingdom, the Roman empire,。
any empire, even today, God's power。
is over all earthly kingdoms.。
Maybe United States, Russia, China, EU,。
all the earthly kingdoms, all of these earthly kingdoms。
and treasures come and go, rise and fall of empires.。
And so often we think our kingdoms will last,。
will continue forever, as long as we live.。
No, the Bible says, here the Bible uses a story。
to tell you the theology or the philosophy of history.。
This is how God sees history,。
how God sees historical kingdom.。
They rise and they fall.。
No king, no kingdom on earth will last forever.。
Only God's kingdom will last forever.。
Now this is our pride and our presumption。
that we think our earthly kingdom will last forever.。
The story tells us no earthly kingdom can last。
without God's permission.。
God can allow a certain king, a certain official。
to be in the White House.。
God can allow this or that king to rule。
over some part of the earth.。
But everything is in God's hand.。
Now what God allows does not always。
mean God approves of it.。
God can allow evil to exist.。
That's pretty difficult for us.。
God can allow evil to exist.。
However, there's always judgment at the end.。
There's always righteous judgment at the end.。
And judgment often comes as a surprise.。
And you would not expect that.。
Here in this story, Belshazzar the king。
thinks that his kingdom will go on。
at least for a little while.。
Why God, of course God is counting down his days,。
but he thinks his kingdom will go on。
and business as usual.。
Now the king even expects that God。
to show up to approve his plan.。
And in this chapter, God does show up.。
But God does not approve his plan.。
Now think about our lives.。
Sometimes we want the approval of God, right?。
Maybe we're launching a new career.。
Maybe we have a family plan。
or we have our own personal plan.。
We always want God to show up and give us the approval.。
It may, it may not.。
Because it is up to the will of God.。
The second point here is that the will of God。
transcends our will.。
Divine will transcends your will.。
God's will is over above your will.。
And so often we want the approval of God。
because we like to do this or that,。
or we plan for this or that.。
And sometimes we even think that。
if we pray hard enough,。
if we work hard enough,。
then our intent, our plan will work out.。
God may approve my plan.。
And this is a real temptation.。
This is a real temptation for us.。
And it's pride on our behalf.。
It's just tempting to even sometimes。
we misuse the name of God for our plan.。
Instead of humbly seeking the will of God in our lives,。
sometimes we think we can misuse or abuse the name of God。
so that we'll get the approval from God.。
You know, this story tells us the job of God。
is not to rubber stamp your plan.。
God's not here to do a bidding.。
God's not here, not necessarily to approve your plan.。
Even you have well intent.。
It may, may not, right?。
The whole point is God is not here。
just to rubber stamp our plan.。
God is here to help us and mold us。
so that we can yield to him in worship and obedience.。
That's what God wants.。
You know, he's not necessarily here to say,。
"Okay, you can do this.。
"Okay, if you ask me, I will do that for you."。
The whole thing is because the will of God matters,。
not our will.。
Now I wanna close this message,。
this story with James chapter four.。
James chapter four.。
When we read this two verses,。
I think it speaks to what Daniel 5 has to say.。
Is that the will of God is higher than our will.。
The plan of God should transcend your plan.。
James chapter four.。
Why?。
You do not even know what will happen tomorrow.。
What is your life?。
You are a mist that appears for a little while。
and then vanishes.。
Instead, you ought to say,。
if it is the will of the Lord,。
we will live and do this or do that.。
No, the scripture is trying to confront our pride,。
confront our priority.。
We don't even know we will exist tomorrow.。
It says we are simply a mist.。
You know what a mist is?。
Did you wake up early enough this morning?。
You look at your alarm, the mist,。
actually talking about our breath, you know.。
When we say things, when we're breathing out, you know,。
that is mist.。
The mist will exist for just a little while。
and it will be gone.。
And that is your life, that is my life, right?。
Then why, if we exist only like a mist,。
why do we think this will happen tomorrow。
or that will happen tomorrow, right?。
What is your life?。
James challenges and confronts us.。
You ought to say, rather,。
if God allows,。
if this is the Lord's will,。
then we will live.。
We will do this or do that.。
No, the Bible is not encouraging us。
not to manage our life.。
It's not saying that we don't have to plan。
for the next day or the next year or next month, you know.。
The Bible is all about, you know, management.。
You know, we need to be good steward, right?。
However, the Bible also insists that,。
hey, God's will transcends your will.。
If God allows, if this is the Lord's will,。
you will live and you will do this or do that.。
Why don't we close in prayers。
and I'm sure you have some plans in your life, right?。
And so often, you know, our plans trump God's plan, right?。
Oh God, I have this or that I need to do, okay?。
I'll put you on the side, all right?。
Put you on the side for a moment.。
And God, I know you're a king, but hey, you know,。
I have this or that to do, you know, I'm so busy.。
I'll put you in the footnote.。
This is tempting, all right?。
This is tempting.。
As James says, you ought to say, you ought to pray.。
If it is the Lord's will, I will live。
and I will do this or that.。
Let's be humble and come before God。
and do away our pride to acknowledge His sovereignty, right?。
Let's pray.。
Father, we come before you to confess our sin, our pride.。
And so often, our priority trumps your priority.。
Sometimes we just think that our plan is so important。
and you are the least important.。
We come before you, we confess our sin of pride.。
Yes, we don't control our lives.。
We don't even know that we will exist tomorrow.。
We're just like mist.。
We appear a little while, we live for a little while,。
and then we'll be vanished and be forgotten.。
And yet you, in your grace, allow us to live.。
So yeah, we come before you and we pray.。
And we say to you, if it is your will, then we will live.。
We will do this and do that.。
And Father, confront us.。
Do we really have the priority of a Christ disciple,。
putting you as our number one,。
putting you as the most important,。
the most important person that we're gonna follow。
and we're gonna obey and we're gonna worship?。
Father, we come before you,。
we ask that your spirit will remind us。
to reorganize our lives,。
putting you first, putting other things。
in the lower priority.。
Help us to please you,。
help us to worship you and follow you,。
and to be obedient, always seeking your will first,。
to listen to word of wisdom,。
to listen to your spirit's prompting,。
to help us to live a life that is obedient,。
live a life that will pleasing to you.。
Yes, it is your will.。
If it is your will, then we will live。
and we will do this and that.。
And thank you for your blessing,。
especially when Thanksgiving is approaching.。
We do need to acknowledge that this is your will,。
this is your permission,。
that we can come and enjoy your provision.。
Yeah, you are so good, God.。
Thank you, thank you for the grace of life。
and help us and use our life to honor you.。
In Christ, we pray.。
(gentle music)。
- Well, we have some freshmen out there。
and please stay a little bit for time of fellowship.。
And as Kelly remind us, get your tickets today。
and we're gonna have a feast together。
and I'm sure there's no writings on the wall.。
So we're gonna enjoy our time together。
in times of Thanksgiving.。
And also I wanna remind you,。
Thanksgiving is a great reminder for us,。
this is God's will and God's provision in our life。
to count His blessing, all right?。
Count His provision and thank God。
for everything that we enjoy today, all right?。
Thank you very much and I'll see you next week.。
(gentle music)。
