- Thank you for having me back here.。
Thank you for having me back here.。
The last time I was here was back in May,。
so it's been a little while,。
but the fact that I'm back here means that。
it was okay last time, so thank you for having me.。
The last time I was here,。
I spoke on the topic of an emotive God,。
and it was about how God encourages us。
to express the full range of emotions。
that he also expresses, that he wants us to also express.。
And this time around, Pastor Mark was nice enough to,。
again, extend freedom for me to choose what to preach on.。
And usually I go through a process of prayer and meditation。
to figure out what it is God might be pressing。
on my heart to share,。
and I happened to be going through the book of Acts。
for my own devotion.。
And at the time when I received the invitation,。
I was going through the passages that actually。
were going through today,。
and I just felt really strongly that this was the message。
that the Lord wanted me to share today.。
So,。
if any of you have visited Thailand,。
you've probably done the very tourist thing。
of riding one of those elephants.。
I don't know, anybody ever gone to Thailand here?。
Yeah?。
Okay.。
I did many years ago,。
and when we see these animals in pictures and videos,。
most of our lives, we don't really get the true sense。
of how just amazingly powerful and large they are.。
These elephants can lift logs with their trunks,。
they can crush cars with their feet,。
and yet somehow they submit。
to these very fragile human masters.。
I always wondered how such big animals can be so compliant,。
and I eventually learned years later。
how they actually train them.。
The way that they train them is that when they're very young,。
they chain them or they bind them,。
so when they even try to break free, it hurts them.。
They're in a lot of pain。
if they try to escape their constraints.。
And so, over the years, as they get older and older,。
these human masters start to take away these devices,。
but the elephants are so trained。
to think that they're trapped。
that they continue to think that they're bound,。
and so they operate in submission as a result.。
The elephant imagery resembles。
how sometimes we can be bound spiritually。
by our early and external influences.。
Whether it's from our culture, society,。
or our religious context,。
we get stuck and trapped in these artificial limitations。
that we put on ourselves。
that might not even be biblically prescribed.。
Today's message is actually about that.。
It's about reflecting on what maybe we have in our lives。
that are unnecessary spiritual restrictions。
that we place on ourselves.。
And today's, oh, sorry, I forgot.。
Yeah, so this was the Emotive God,。
and I was thankful to see。
that Pastor Mark actually reviewed it.。
I somehow was on UB's website in August,。
and I was like, oh, he found a better graphic than me.。
(audience laughs)。
And here's one of the elephants, right,。
that you would see in maybe Thailand or Burma.。
And today's passage is from Acts 15, one to 21.。
I will read it, but it's also on the screen.。
"Certain people came down from Judea to Antioch。
"and were teaching the believers.。
"Unless you are circumcised,。
"according to the custom taught by Moses,。
"you cannot be saved.。
"This brought Paul and Barnabas into sharp dispute。
"and debate with them.。
"So Paul and Barnabas were appointed,。
"along with some other believers,。
"to go up to Jerusalem to see the apostles and elders。
"about this question.。
"The church sent them on their way,。
"and as they traveled through Phoenicia and Samaria,。
"they told how the Gentiles had been converted.。
"This news made all the believers very glad.。
"When they came to Jerusalem,。
"they were welcomed by the church。
"and the apostles and elders,。
"to whom they reported everything God had done through them.。
"Then some of the believers who belonged。
"to the party of the Pharisees stood up and said,。
"The Gentiles must be circumcised。
"and required to keep the law of Moses.。
"The apostles and elders met to consider this question.。
"After much discussion, Peter got up and addressed them,。
"Brothers, you know that some time ago,。
"God made a choice among you。
"that the Gentiles might hear from my lips。
"the message of the gospel and believe.。
"God, who knows the heart,。
"showed that he accepted them。
"by giving the Holy Spirit to them,。
"just as he did to us.。
"He did not discriminate between us and them,。
"for he purified their hearts by faith.。
"Now then, why do you try to test God。
"by putting on the necks of Gentiles。
"a yoke that neither we nor our ancestors。
"have been able to bear?。
"No, we believe it is through the grace。
"of our Lord Jesus Christ。
"that we are saved, just as they are.。
"The whole assembly became silent。
"as they listened to Barnabas and Paul。
"telling about the signs and wonders。
"God had done among the Gentiles through them.。
"When they finished, James spoke up.。
"Brothers, he said, listen to me.。
"Simon has described to us how God first intervened。
"to choose a people for his name from the Gentiles.。
"The words of the prophets are in agreement。
"with this, as it is written.。
"After this, I will return and rebuild。
"David's fallen tent.。
"Its ruins I will rebuild, and I will restore it,。
"that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord,。
"even all the Gentiles who bear my name,。
"says the Lord who does these things,。
"things known from long ago.。
"It is my judgment, therefore,。
"that we should not make it difficult。
"for the Gentiles who are turning to God.。
"Instead, we should write to them,。
"telling them to abstain from food polluted by idols,。
"from sexual immorality,。
"from the meat of strangled animals, and from blood.。
"For the law of Moses has been preached in every city。
"from the earliest times,。
"and is read in the synagogues on every Sabbath."。
The passage begins on the backdrop。
of Paul and Barnabas' missionary journey in Acts 13 and 14.。
They travel from Antioch to Cyprus,。
making their way from the eastern coast of the island。
to the western coast,。
where they then travel to the mainland of modern-day Turkey.。
They mimic Jesus' strategy。
by first targeting the Jewish communities。
in these areas where they already have。
the religious background of the Old Testament.。
They actually mimic Jesus' strategy。
by first targeting the Jewish communities。
that already have the religious background。
of the Old Testament.。
They appeal to the Jews and the God-fearing Gentiles,。
and then connect Jesus as a promised Savior,。
referred to in the scriptures that they were all expecting.。
Paul and Barnabas head through a number of cities。
before backtracking, so you can see that they go inland,。
they go all the way to all these cities,。
and then they kind of do a U-turn back,。
and they backtrack to Antioch.。
And then Paul and Barnabas report。
all that God had done through them,。
and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles。
when they returned.。
In verses 1 to 4, after returning to Antioch,。
some people came from Judea, where Jerusalem is,。
the religious heart of Judaism,。
and contended that in order for new Gentile believers。
to be fully saved and accepted into the community,。
they needed to be circumcised.。
Circumcision is a hallmark of Jewish believers.。
In Genesis 17, Abraham is called by God。
to undergo circumcision as a sign of the covenant.。
Paul and Barnabas argued against this,。
and then made their way to Jerusalem to clear things up.。
And then in verses 5 to 11,。
what follows is another discussion,。
but this time against the believing Pharisees.。
This is different from just some people,。
because here are the respected elders。
of the believing community,。
and it required a more delicate handling of the situation.。
And then in 12, verses 12 to 18,。
Barnabas and Paul countered the idea.。
They argued against the Pharisees。
with the explanation of the sign of acceptance。
of the believers to the provision。
of the Holy Spirit to Gentiles.。
They detailed the signs and wonders。
God had done among them.。
And the conversion story capturing Cornelius,。
the centurion and others among him,。
are one of the stories depicted earlier in Acts.。
In verse 10, in verse 10 of the passage,。
there's a mention of putting on a yoke。
that neither the Jewish disciples。
nor the ancestors have been able to bear.。
It refers to circumcision and the extensive set。
of Mosaic laws that the traditional Jewish community。
believe had to be followed to be part of God's community.。
Though we do not have these rules in modern Christianity,。
I'd say that we have our own versions。
of heavy yokes that we place on ourselves.。
This part of the passage I'm gonna cover。
later in the message,。
along with this.。
So this, this is a yoke.。
A yoke is a tool placed on oxen。
to pull a cart, a plow, or a wagon.。
And it's made of solid wood,。
and back in the old days, it was really, really heavy.。
Actually, if you look at my shirt here,。
this is actually called the yoke as well.。
It's actually what holds and hangs the shirt on our bodies.。
Think about what yokes you might have。
in your personal situations.。
This yoke can come internally from ourselves。
and/or externally from those influences around us.。
They come from areas like our families,。
our culture, and even our church traditions.。
Recognizing some of these self-imposed yokes。
can help lighten what actually might be barriers。
for us to enjoy more of God's grace.。
It's actually funny that Miroslav's sharing。
the passage on the yoke.。
I didn't pay her for that.。
It just happened to work out.。
And when we accept,。
recognizing some of these self-imposed yokes。
can help us lighten what might be barriers。
and enjoy more of God's grace.。
And when we accept Jesus into our lives,。
we go through a process of justification。
as we enter the family of God.。
But just because we enter the family。
doesn't mean that we feel like part of the family.。
There's a lifelong process of sanctification.。
It's like marriage.。
When you marry, you create a new family,。
and then you join your spousal's family.。
And there's a period of acclimation。
to adjust to the new dynamics and rituals that you have.。
Going through this kind of acclimation。
is like sanctification.。
And the Biblically guided process of sanctification。
is becoming more like Jesus.。
Though the Bible should be our guide,。
our societal, cultural, and familial influences。
inevitably affect how we think。
the spiritual growth process should develop.。
This is true even for those who grew up in the church.。
There are traditions that become embedded。
in what we believe we need to do。
that really are not Biblically prescribed.。
They are more our preferences,。
and they become heavy yokes that we end up carrying.。
These yokes can be individual,。
and they can be organizational.。
I was born into the Chinese church.。
My parents were young and were active。
in the Cantonese side of the church they were in.。
And I was part of that in my earlier years.。
Sunday services were very traditional.。
All the songs came from the hymn books.。
Everybody came in suits and dresses.。
It was very, very boring for me.。
Even though now that I'm older,。
admittedly, I find comfort in some of that.。
In any case, as I started entering middle school,。
I started to attend the English side.。
It was more of a Western disposition.。
It was more casual, it was more young.。
And attendees were mostly American-born。
or mostly raised in the United States.。
Now, my normal attire every day,。
going to school through the week,。
were sweatpants and flip-flops.。
And they were super comfortable,。
and every day, even into college,。
this was my daily uniform.。
But my mom absolutely hates me wearing flip-flops.。
And I see this as a generational phenomenon。
because I remember when I was dating Rebecca, my wife,。
and I would go and visit her grandmother,。
she would always warn me,。
"Do not show up in your flip-flops."。
Or else she would just get an earful afterwards.。
And even when I visited her parents,。
she'd be like, "Make sure you don't come。
"in your flip-flops."。
And sometimes, I would listen.。
But I think it's actually a generational thing.。
One thing my mom disliked me more than wearing flip-flops。
was wearing flip-flops to church.。
And I think there's this image for those。
that grew up in Hong Kong in the earlier years,。
and only young thugs ran around wearing flip-flops,。
(speaks in foreign language)。
And these were the so-called (speaks in foreign language)。
I would consistently argue with my mom on this topic。
whenever we would prepare to go to church on Sundays.。
And some of you know my mother,。
so you're probably laughing, imagining her.。
We'd go back and forth, and at the end of it,。
she would usually conclude that Jesus would disapprove.。
Like that would be her way of trying to get me。
to stop wearing my flip-flops.。
And being the young teen I was,。
I would then reply that Jesus can't disapprove。
because he only wore sandals, right?。
(audience laughs)。
In fact, I visited my mom's church a couple of weeks ago,。
and I wore flip-flops to church,。
and I was attending the Chinese service with her.。
And at the end of it, she's like,。
(speaks in foreign language)。
And then, of course, I was like,。
I'm actually being more like Jesus。
because I'm wearing flip-flops.。
So she didn't take that very well,。
but this is a funny example of how we sometimes。
might add extra add-ons to what is required。
to be Christ-like.。
And this example might be funny and not harmful,。
but substitute the flip-flops for something else.。
Jesus would not approve of blank.。
Or you need to do more of blank to be more like Jesus.。
A more serious subject could actually be。
where you should and should not go as a believer.。
You shouldn't go to the bars anymore.。
You can't stay out late on Saturdays anymore.。
You should only go to church on Fridays.。
That's the only place you can go to.。
Or maybe it's the people that you associate with.。
You should only hang out with Christians.。
Or you should disconnect yourself from your friends。
who are not believers, even though you might be。
the only connection to Jesus that they have in their lives.。
Or it's related to your spiritual practice.。
Maybe it's you have to pray a certain way。
for a minimum amount of time,。
or you have to pray in tongues。
for your prayers to be effective.。
You have to read the Bible through so many times in a year,。
or you have to go to church so many times each week,。
or you have to serve in so many different roles.。
These can all be our modern yokes of circumcision.。
They can be extra practices that we add that accumulate,。
and they become more and more burdensome,。
and we can suffocate under the weight of them.。
We become very performance-oriented。
versus being very grace-driven.。
And we should ask ourselves,。
are there certain practices that we have。
that might be individual yokes in our own lives?。
Praying is good, church is good, serving is good,。
but are we doing them from a sincere posture of faith,。
or are we doing them just to say that we did them?。
So these yokes can also be organizational.。
We assimilate a lot of our own cultural traditions。
in how we do church.。
They might seem natural and preferential。
because they're grounded。
in our very familiar cultural practices,。
but they should not be classed as biblically required.。
These demands can actually overemphasize。
what is actually critical for a church,。
and can create organizational drag。
that prevents effective ministry, leadership, and fellowship.。
In the Chinese church, these can be even more pronounced。
when we operate within the greater American environment,。
because the difference is so stark.。
And I think one strong Asian influence。
that really pervades our perspective of how we do church。
is our very Asian emphasis on education.。
It's a very notable virtue,。
but it can also dangerously border on idolatrous behavior.。
Having lived in Hong Kong,。
I saw firsthand the intense pressure there is。
with education, and it starts at the earliest levels,。
preschool or maybe even when you're born.。
It got to very absurd levels.。
The competition is so fierce,。
and people have to apply their kids。
to try to get into school,。
to even apply for school as soon as they're born.。
You can't apply a child for school unless they exist,。
and they do so right after they're born,。
because the lines are so long and it's so competitive.。
They start doing interviews with three-year-olds。
to see if they're gifted,。
and I don't know what they can test。
with giftedness at that age,。
other than can they sit down and listen。
for hours to a teacher teach.。
I'm sure many of you have your own stories,。
and you've seen this or you've experienced it.。
A more extreme example that I have。
is a number of years ago,。
my friend was teaching in one of these。
international private schools in Hong Kong,。
and they do these tours.。
Parents can come and they can check out the school,。
and one of these parents,。
or who they thought was a parent,。
was this lady coming on her own,。
and she was part of the tour,。
and it was found out later on。
that not only did she not have a child yet,。
she wasn't even married.。
She was preparing that far in advance。
because it was so stressful to think about this topic,。
and they had to plan ahead because it's so competitive.。
And educational craze and demand in Hong Kong。
has fueled an extremely lucrative industry。
in tutoring centers in Hong Kong.。
We actually have some of these in Bridgeport.。
Some of you might have your kids there.。
I'm not gonna blame you.。
But I don't know any other place other than Hong Kong。
where we have these tutor gods, these bozafsan.。
They are individuals who have supposedly mastered。
the art of passing high school and college entrance exams,。
and they make millions of dollars.。
They're celebrities.。
Their faces are all over billboards and on buses,。
and they're on TV, and it's crazy.。
But I believe this actually is grounded。
in our Confucian culture,。
the Confucian-based imperial civil exams.。
There's this long tradition from the 600s to the 1900s。
where anybody in society, if they could pass this test,。
they can jump through the ladder in society。
and do very, very well.。
And I've seen this historical influence。
in a lot of these Asian churches,。
in Singaporean churches, in Korean churches,。
in Chinese churches.。
And it bleeds into what we require educationally。
for candidates that can serve in our churches.。
I've seen some job postings for youth pastors。
where you shouldn't apply unless you have,。
unless you're pursuing a master's in divinity, right?。
Or you can only apply to be a pastor or senior pastor。
if you have your PhD or if you're getting your DEM in,。
right?。
Knowledge is a priority.。
But being empathetic, pastoral in nature,。
a good leader, or even caring about people,。
that might not even be listed, right?。
Like that, there's a disconnect there.。
These restrictive educational requirements that we have。
can be our organizational yokes.。
And I wonder if Jesus applied to some of these jobs today,。
if he would be considered as the carpenter's son, right,。
as his main vocation.。
We're also a culture of very industrious people, right,。
as immigrants or children of immigrants.。
And this infiltrates how we do church sometimes.。
Like there's a busyness that gets translated。
into how we do church.。
And we have program after program,。
study after study, event after event.。
It's like we're working our way towards salvation.。
And Sunday Sabbath can actually feel not restful.。
And that just isn't right, nor is it biblical.。
I value education.。
I value strong work ethic.。
And these are attributes that I want my own children。
to learn.。
Wisdom and hard work are praised virtues in the Bible.。
Blessed is the one whose delight is in the law of the Lord。
and meditates on his law day and night.。
Good planning and hard work lead to prosperity.。
But hasty shortcuts lead to poverty.。
We need to ensure that these virtues don't become。
organizational limiters, organizational yokes for us.。
That we don't see them as a means and the measurement。
of what a greater church is built on.。
Putting on these yokes causes us to lose focus。
and lose dependency on God's grace and mercy.。
Substituting it with a sense of control。
that we can have ourselves.。
Our motivation needs to be grounded in the community。
of faith and love that is authentic and intentional,。
the same way that Jesus is.。
Are we caring for the brothers and sisters around us?。
Are we caring for the community,。
for the people in our community?。
Or are we creating a safe bubble for us to just be in?。
I know I'm ruffling some feathers here.。
I'm causing discomfort for some folks,。
maybe most folks here.。
And I would probably too if I was in the audience。
and I ended here.。
'Cause it sounds like, hey, it sounds like Brian。
is saying we should have no yokes, no rules.。
I'm not saying that at all.。
I'm not advocating for liberation from any constraints.。
Far from it, we need yokes.。
Without rules and structure, there would be chaos.。
And we as Asians, of course, like rules.。
It's why I think distribution-wise,。
we tend to have more people in the areas of engineering。
or the sciences or accounting,。
because they're grounded in very clear rules.。
But we need to remember that our strengths。
often have a mirror side to them.。
They're usually our weakness as well,。
and we shouldn't be blindsided by them.。
Sometimes adhering to the rules can be to a fault,。
where we stop questioning why they exist.。
What I want to emphasize is that we need to know。
what the true rules are,。
instead of adding in our own salt and vinegar,。
adding our gacho, right, into what we expect。
church needs to be like and how we operate within them.。
(silence)。
We should see ourselves with a lightened yoke.。
So, not with no rules, but with the lightened yoke.。
The end of our passage ends with James, Jesus' brother,。
the leader of the Jerusalem church,。
that says that things shouldn't be made difficult。
for the Gentiles coming to Christ,。
but they should still be instructed to abstain from food。
polluted by idols, from sexual immorality,。
and from the meat of strangled animals,。
from blood, and from blood.。
After everything I said before,。
some of you reading this will say,。
"Hey, this sure sounds like。
"we should still be doing a lot of stuff."。
And in the legal field, there is what's considered。
the letter of the law and the spirit of the law.。
The letter of the law is kind of our direct,。
very superficial, quick reading of the law.。
It's very literal.。
But the spirit of the law is actually what the heart。
of the law is meant to promote.。
Using maybe the speed limit, for example,。
we can see that when you learn to drive,。
you're taught that you should not exceed the speed limit.。
But as you actually start to drive yourself,。
there's this idea of what's called the flow of traffic.。
You follow the flow of traffic,。
and that flow of traffic might be faster。
than the speed limit, or it could be significantly slower。
than the speed limit, but you follow the flow of traffic。
because the heart of the law is actually to maintain safety。
for yourself and for everyone around you.。
The biblical law is meant to serve as a guide。
for us to understand what it takes to be holy,。
and to understand we are unable to fulfill it ourselves.。
Jesus said that he did not come to abolish the law。
or the prophets, he came to fulfill them.。
God sent Jesus because we can't do it ourselves.。
He came as a perfect being to follow the law,。
perfectly, and to highlight that it is by God's grace。
through Jesus that we can become saved。
and strive to be holy.。
Following him is the way to go.。
The end of the passage here in Acts is really prescribing us。
to operate with a mind to be holy,。
holiness that is spiritual, holiness that is sexual,。
holiness that is nutritional or bodily.。
The instructions are still to maintain。
basic standards of holiness, but not to the degree。
where it becomes a checklist to save ourselves.。
And you know what?。
Like, these are practices that non-believers can identify。
as distinguishing marks of the believing community,。
and why James still prescribes these rules。
for those to follow, because he mentions that。
it's been told for a long time。
that this is what the Jewish community does.。
The Christian faith is an invitation from Jesus。
to become part of God's family.。
It's also a lifelong journey to become more like him,。
to be set apart, to be holy.。
The process is not meant to cause us。
to feel like we're drowning in rules,。
where in our individual and church lives,。
the rules have become our masters,。
and like the trained elephants,。
we're afraid to step out of bounds.。
The rules themselves are guardrails for us,。
so that we don't recklessly charge ahead。
to our own harm or to others' harm.。
Jesus provides us a lightened yoke, an easier path.。
It is a path ahead that is full of forgiveness and grace,。
for he has bore the burden of the law.。
We have to just open our eyes。
and see what the new reality actually is.。
Again, I said, no, I didn't pay Mirs。
to say the verse that she did,。
but it's actually in my slide as well.。
And Jesus says, "Come to me,。
"all you who are weary and burdened,。
"and I will give you rest.。
"Take my yoke upon you and learn from me,。
"for I am gentle and humble in heart,。
"and you will find rest for your souls.。
"For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."。
Jesus does the heavy lifting so we don't have to.。
Make sure to put on the lighter yoke,。
and maybe feel free to wear some flip-flops at church as well.。
(audience laughing)。
Thank you.。
Let me just end in prayer really quickly.。
Heavenly Father, we just thank you。
for Jesus, we thank you that he came to this world。
so that we can have a lighter yoke,。
that we will not feel crushed by the rules。
that we feel we need to follow to become saved,。
and that you extend that freely through your grace,。
through Christ's sacrifice.。
Bless us as we leave here,。
and help us to reflect on what might be。
our individual yokes,。
and what might be our organizational yokes.。
And let us feel freedom,。
freedom in your grace and your mercy.。
In your son's name we pray, amen.。
