Hey guys, I know a lot of people are sick in the last week, right?。
You sick too? Yeah. And I've been sick.。
And since last Sunday evening,。
after all this talking and meeting and I lost my voice for three straight。
days, three days. Yeah. I completely lost my voice.。
This is the first time happened in my life. I could not speak, you know,。
you know, this is how,。
how devastating it is for me to not to be able to speak a word,。
right? Especially because we know we are pastors. We, uh,。
we live by what we say, right? And we have to say,。
we have to say things that we have to speak. Right.。
And what is most frustrating for me is actually at home when I'm trying to。
command my children to do something good for the family. Right.。
I said, Nathan, can you do the dishes? Because of my crack voice,。
you know, I couldn't speak up. Right. And then how they deal with me,。
it was that, what can you say that again?。
And it was very, very frustrating. And, uh, on Wednesday, last Wednesday,。
I slowly get my voice back. Um, so, you know,。
as you can tell my voice has not fully recovered. Um, but, um,。
because, because of my voice, it's not working so well,。
I will make today's sermon a little bit shorter. Praise God, right?。
Happy new year. So anyways, uh,。
last Sunday we began the series on atomic wisdom.。
And this is part two. As I said, atomic does not mean destruction.。
Atomic means tiny, insignificant, but as we, uh,。
do life change,。
we need to understand the dynamic of making life change successful,。
making life change sustainable. We want to achieve our goals in the new year,。
whatever new year resolutions you may have.。
We need to understand on what conditions that we can improve ourselves.。
Whether you are doing your schoolwork or you're doing your career or your。
family plan or financial plan or spiritual plan, whatever that is,。
we have to understand what conditions are necessary to make life change,。
uh, sustainable. So that is what, uh, this is all about. Uh,。
we trying to integrate behavioral psychology insights from a book like。
atomic habits by James clear on the left, or, uh,。
we integrate it with, uh, the book of prophets,。
or especially a chunk of writings in the Bible called wisdom literature.。
And as you can tell, if you find wisdom literature in the Bible,。
usually is in the middle of the Bible,。
some of the Psalms and the book of prophets,。
they are full of wisdom and insights of how to live a skillful living,。
how to live a life that will honor to God.。
And there's one characteristics about, uh, wisdom literature. Um,。
it is bottom up literature, not top down.。
As I told you, the prophetic literature,。
what the prophet says or the Torah, the law, this all top down, right?。
God reveal himself.。
God tell you what his demands are and what his principles are from top down。
revelation from top, top down and wisdom literature is bottom up.。
So the wise teacher will observe the creation, the creatures, the human,。
humanity,。
how human nature is and trying to draw lessons and revelation of God from。
bottom up from the creation.。
So I think this kind of literature will help us or inspire us to open our eyes。
to observe how the order of the cosmos,。
how the order of God's creation is and learn wisdom here and there.。
Like this one, 25 from the book of prophets, it says the perfect,。
the purposes of a man's heart are deep waters,。
deep waters. So you look into yourself,。
you find you're doing some thinking all the time and your thought life,。
whatever you're thinking of the purposes of the thinking of a man's heart,。
unlike deep water, deep water.。
How many of you do fishing from time to time? Right? Like deep water fishing.。
No shaking your head. Boring, right? Like deep water fishing.。
You know,。
you gotta have your bait down deep in the water and you can wait and once you。
get your fish, you gotta pull it out, right? And patiently pull it out.。
This is what wisdom is all about,。
especially wisdom and insight into human nature.。
It's like man's heart are like deep water.。
Even we sometimes don't understand what we are thinking about,。
but a man of understanding, a wise teacher will draw them out.。
Use patience, use principles to observe and to understand human nature.。
Then you understand how we work, understand the general human nature.。
That is wisdom literature.。
And European journal did a study of 96 people some years ago and find that if a。
person wants to form a new habit, say you have new year resolution,。
say you don't read your Bible every day,。
you want to have a new habit to read the Bible every single day.。
How many days would it take for a person to form that new habit?。
It finds that the shortest time for someone to develop a new habit is 18 days.。
18 days doable, right? 18 days.。
The longest time for some people,。
the lazy people is 254 days.。
That's still doable, right? Less than a year. And you can form a new habit.。
How many of you floss every single day? Floss your teeth.。
Only a handful. How disappointing, right?。
But good news to the dentist, right?。
How many of you go to the dentist like once every six months, once every,。
every year? You should go. You should go. Okay.。
Flossing is a new habit, right?。
And how many days would you take to form this new habit?。
Shortest is 18 days. Longest is 254 days.。
And in average is 66 days, 66 days.。
So those of you don't floss your teeth, start flossing today.。
For 66 days in average, you will have this new habit. Hallelujah.。
Right? How cool is that? Right?。
So you have to plan ahead and you have to understand how we work, right?。
So let's reveal what we have talked about last week is the power of 1%.。
If you make 1% change every single day for 365 days,。
you will be like that curve.。
You will accumulate the result and the effect or the impact of your life change。
for 37 times or even better.。
Once you have the patience to, to,。
to grind through the valley of disappointment, right?。
However, if you don't do any improvement,。
if you are 1% decline for 365 days, bad news for you,。
you have no result at all. Right?。
So no matter what solutions you have in mind, keep that in mind.。
1% only for every single day, 365 days,。
you will see impactful result.。
That's principle number one, power of 1%.。
And then the power of incentives or disincentives.。
Once you have incentives in your goal, in your plan,。
then the possibility of achieving your goal will be higher.。
And the specifics are better. Remember I said,。
if you have a new goal in mind, a new year resolution,。
make sure you specify the when and where and how.。
The more specific you are, the better you will achieve your goal.。
Number four, community, the people you hang out with,。
will make influence on you, will make influence on you.。
So you have to understand how it works.。
A lot of this are actually common sense, right?。
They're all common sense.。
And of course behavioral psychologists will solidify our understanding how we。
work. So we'll continue today with principle number five,。
is the power of default, power of default.。
Now what does it mean? Default.。
Default means something preselected for you,。
preselected for you. Now a lot of you use computer, right?。
Right. How many of you will browse the internet? When you browse the internet,。
you have to choose which browser to choose. No, right?。
How many of you use Chrome? Chrome browser? Edge?。
Fox? Firefox? No? I mean,。
you browse the internet on your phone or your computer.。
There's always default browser, right? I use edge.。
And every time I open edge, sometimes the right-hand corner will ask me,。
do you want to make Chrome the default? I said, no,。
don't bother me. Right?。
That is the power of default because you don't have to choose because it's。
already preselected for you. That's how live change works, right?。
Recently, my wife just got a new phone.。
Actually it's an old phone from Rachel because Rachel got a new phone and I give。
the used phone to mom as new as iPhone.。
She has been using Android for years and she just。
got switched to iPhone.。
So my whole family, everyone is using iPhone except me now.。
I'm the only Android user and it took her days to get used to the iPhone.。
Yesterday, last night,。
she was still struggling with the iPhone operation。
system. Right? I said, good luck to you. Right?。
And it takes time to make the default happen. Right?。
For me, Android is the default. For some of you, iPhone is the default,。
but you have to understand the power of change for default. Right?。
So psychologist tells us usually when, when,。
when there's something new happen in the calendar and you make some new year。
resolution, some new goals,。
the chances of succeeding is better.。
Say you have some new life change,。
a fresh start strategy, like new year.。
Usually people make new goals or plan for new。
endeavors when,。
when the new year hits,。
because this is first strategy and the behavioral scientists are telling us。
people would like to tie new goal at some turning point in their lives.。
So this month is the best day or best time to make new year resolution. Right?。
Right. You don't want to make some new goals on September 19th. Right?。
I mean, what does that have to do with you? Right? September 19th,。
by the way, is our birthday. Right? It has nothing to do with you. Right?。
But new year, everyone's new year.。
Everyone is going through new year and first start strategy usually work.。
22 six from the book of Proverbs.。
It says to train a child in the way he should go.。
When he's old, he will not turn from it.。
Train, discipline or dedicate,。
begin or inaugurating the life of a child when he was born or she was born.。
You want to set the default for her.。
She'll come to Sunday school. She will come to learn the faith. Right?。
By the way, this is not brainwashing. Right? It's teaching.。
We all want to teach the best thing for our child and our faith and our values。
are the most important things that we want to teach our child.。
And the Proverbs sets train your child or dedicate him in the way he should go。
the rest of his life. Then in general, when he is getting older,。
he will not depart from it because the beginnings are critical.。
The default is critical.。
I'm talking about the power of default. One of the scholars, um, you can,。
you know, do a Google search is James Choi. James Choi.。
James Choi is a professor at Yale school of business.。
It's very interesting, right? Uh, Choi is a professor as Yale school.。
Yale is one of the best schools in the world.。
And, uh, Choi is a solid question.。
When you Google on YouTube talking about James Choi, uh,。
he will be so point blank telling people about his faith,。
right? And news channel interview him. He always say, I am a Christian.。
So choice is solid question. And he has done much research on 401k,。
401k. How many of you have 401k or some sort of retirement plan? Right?。
You do, right?。
And James Choi is one of the scholars who has done so much research on a 401k.。
And he found that, uh,。
the ideal saving rate for today's Americans is。
14% of your income, 14% of your income.。
Um, you invest 40% of your income into 401k.。
Then, uh, you have a really solid retirement, uh,。
arrangement for yourself and his study. Uh,。
one of his studies try to follow up on people, uh,。
employees signing up for 401k.。
Now the first option of the study is that the first group of people to have the。
employees or new employees, when they, uh,。
go to work first day to give them the choice to opt in,。
to sign up for 401k and give them 30 days to do。
so. So when you're new to the company, when you're a new employee,。
the boss will tell you, the HR will tell you, okay,。
you have 30 days to sign the full 401k plan. All right.。
And this assess rate for people opting in the。
401k plan in 30 days is 75%.。
Not bad, right? Not bad. However, if you reverse it,。
but the second group,。
the second group of employees is that when they come to work the first day,。
you already signed them up for 401k.。
So it's automatic enrollment and then you give them 30 days to。
opt out. All right. So first day of work,。
HR telling you, you are signed up for 401k already. All right.。
You have 30 days to opt out. You can sign off from the plan.。
And the end,。
we saw the success rate for people signing up for 401k with。
automatic enrollment is 100%.。
100%. Why?。
Because the power of default, right?。
You presuppose something in your life,。
some sort of habit like this day of the week,。
I'm going to come to worship. This time of day,。
I'm going to read the Bible. That is the default position.。
And you have the default presuppose and it will have 1% chance,。
1% effect on you and 365 days you have 30 plus life effect change in your life.。
Every single morning after I had my,。
when I have my breakfast during my breakfast time,。
I would turn to the phone.。
I'll go to YouTube because I subscribe to a channel.。
It's a devotional channel and it will take me a reading one verse from the Old。
Testament and one verse from the New Testament and each video take one verse is。
only three to five minute long. So during the breakfast,。
I will turn to the YouTube channel and I will watch that video and the teacher。
will explain to me what this version is all about. Right?。
Is that easy? It's easy, right? But that's my default position.。
So I've been doing it for many, many, many, many,。
many times and for a very, very long time.。
And that is the power of default, right?。
So think about it when you plan your new year,。
when you plan your life goals are important,。
but you have to understand the power and the effect of default presupposing in。
your life, then it will have life, permanent life change on you.。
Number six, make it personal.。
The more personalized your goals are,。
the interventions are, the more successful the outcome.。
The more personal it is, you make it more personal,。
then it will make it more sustainable.。
And that's why people hire personal trainer in the gym, right?。
How many of you have personal coach to help you do exercise?。
No, huh? I know, I know, I know you guys don't do that. Yeah.。
But you know, because you have, people have personal trainers,。
so they've, they will feel accountable, right?。
It's a person to person relationship.。
Proverbs 27 says,。
like a bird that strays from his nest is a person who strays from his home.。
So talking about people who left their home, right?。
Like many of you left your homeland and you're trying to take root here in the。
foreign land. You are like a bird, right? You're like a bird.。
You're flying here and there. You left your nest.。
Then we'll skip to verse 10. It says,。
but do not forsake your friend and the friend of your father and do not go to。
your brother's house when disaster strikes you. Why?。
Why don't you go to your brother's house when you need help?。
Because here's the wisdom,。
better a neighbor nearby than a brother far away because you already move away。
from your homeland, right? Whoever have blood relationship with you,。
your dad or your mom, your siblings. Yeah, they, they, they,。
they are close right in terms of blood relationship.。
But since you move away from them, you are far away from them.。
And who is better when this, when you need help?。
A neighbor without blood relationship。
nearby would be more valuable, right?。
That's what I find church family valuable, right?。
Sometimes we bump into each other and we learn each other and Oh,。
you're a Christian too. I'm a Christian too.。
It's for some unexplainable reason, some mysterious connection, right?。
Because our faith, our core values are the same,。
even though we are not blood related, right? And we feel close, right?。
That's why we have fellowship and that's why we foster the relationship and our。
faith community so that we get this wisdom.。
What is it? Better is a neighbor nearby than a brother,。
a blood related brother far away, right?。
That's what church is for, right? When you need help,。
people around you and nearby who can help you more so than your siblings,。
right? Amen to that. Sometimes it's like that, right?。
I heard a story about a PhD student. The PhD student, you know,。
you need to graduate from a PhD program. You have to write dissertation, right?。
And this station runs around 200 to 300 pages long and you have to write a lot。
of chapters and you have to write those chapters by a certain date, right?。
So the story I heard is that this PhD student,。
because he has to write a certain chapter, like chapter one,。
by a certain date, chapter two, and then by a further day,。
and then chapter three and so on, right? In order to motivate himself,。
he writes a series of checks, post dated,。
date them accordingly and give the stack of checks to his friends and saying,。
you know, if I don't write a chapter by a certain day,。
then you can cast a check. Right? Sounds like a good strategy, right?。
And make it really, really personal, right?。
Because not only the checks are with the friends,。
but the checks are your money, right? If you don't,。
if he doesn't write a certain chapter by a certain deadline,。
then he will lose the money, right? But if he does so,。
then he will get the check back, right?。
Make it personal. As you know, I'm in a PhD program.。
I don't think I would do that. Yeah.。
But think about it, you know,。
spiritual goals or some sort of new year resolution,。
Bible reading plan. You ask a friend to keep you accountable, right?。
You ask a neighbor, "Hey, check on me." Right?。
Did I keep the reading going or not?。
Well, as I said, my sermon will be shorter.。
So I would like to do a short conclusion today.。
And coming back to here,。
what I shared to you last week is that there are three big areas we have to。
think about our life. When we manage our life,。
God has given us, think of this three areas of growth,。
spiritual growth, spiritual health, and emotional health,。
and physical health. Set some goals or have some ideas, specific ideas,。
how you can live a life of wisdom,。
manage your life better.。
And today I would like to emphasize on emotional health.。
And I know to many of you, perhaps emotional health is a new language.。
A new aspect. Right?。
But emotional health is very, very, very important. Very important.。
And you know, my generation or my previous generation,。
would like to sweep things under the rug. You know,。
that's how we deal with emotions. Right? You feel sad.。
You tear up, you know, that's not a man's thing. Right?。
That's what my dad taught me. Right? Sweep it under the rug. Right? Yeah.。
You grind your teeth and then you move on. Right?。
And who cares about your emotional health? Right? But you know,。
in this generation, I think we need to learn this language.。
We need to learn how to live with emotional health.。
If you read some of the Psalms in the Bible,。
the Psalms are prayers of the people of God,。
to God, people of God, to the Lord.。
And they write Psalms and their prayers and that become the book of。
Psalms. Right?。
Many of these prayers are not rosy and happy。
prayers. Right? Yeah.。
There are praise Psalms and Thanksgiving Psalms and all that. Right?。
But many of the Psalms are written。
from some sort of negative emotions.。
The Psalms you find,。
they are in fear and they are struggling with anxiety.。
They are struggling with fear and depression and。
sadness. Sometimes they cry out to the Lord. Right?。
When they wake up and prosper, their hearts are frustrated. Right?。
But they write the prayers out and they go to God. Right?。
So the Psalms are full of laments,。
will and honest prayers and they grieve before God.。
And the people of God did not hold back their true feelings toward God.。
And bow means because God is all knowing. Right?。
God knows how you feel. Right? You can't hide it.。
You can't sweep under the rug, but it's there. Right?。
But you need to understand God is big enough to handle your complaints,。
your griefs, and your laments.。
And we can draw close to God with deeper intimacy.。
I find that sometimes Christians always like to over-spiritualize things.。
There is a certain tendency,。
especially conservative Christians. We like to spiritualize things.。
You know, when you feel sad and we say, "Oh, we need to give thanks." Right?。
Because give thanks every day and be joyful every day. Right?。
Are those true? Yeah, those are true. Right? In a certain sense.。
But you know, when we feel sad, sometimes we sweep it under the rug and say,。
you know, if we are living faithfully, we have faith in God,。
we should not feel sad. Right?。
And that is tragic because that will suppress our emotions and sweep it under。
the rug and it will do damage to ourselves. You know,。
recently you may have heard some news stories about, you know,。
some celebrities, right, commit suicide.。
I heard one from someone in the morning service. He said,。
there's a Korean actor or actress, something like that,。
celebrity who committed suicide. And days before,。
nobody knew that he was going through something negatively.。
There was no signs. Right?。
Because you think about physical symptoms are visible. Right? Like my voice is,。
you know, you can hear it, right?。
It's visible and you know I'm sick. Right?。
You have runny nose, you're sick. There's a physical, visible,。
you know, bodily symptoms. But emotional,。
usually has no visible signs. Right?。
People may sound positive, but you know,。
in the middle of the night you're struggling with some griefs or some dark。
emotions. And what do you do about it? Right? Instead of,。
instead of suppressing it, you know,。
the Psalm gives us the channel to go to God in prayers.。
And God can certainly beg enough to hear your cries.。
And it's okay to go to heavenly daddy to say, you know, I,。
I feel sad and I struggle. Right? I complain.。
God can certainly handle that.。
Many years ago, I think almost 20 years ago,。
I was in a state of some sort of fatigue, you know,。
very, very exhausted, you know, emotionally and spiritually.。
And I was trying to figure out what is going on in my life. You know,。
from the outside, nobody can, nobody can tell. Right.。
Even my wife cannot tell. Right.。
My wife cannot tell because I take care of her. I do my best. Right.。
Nobody knows. You know, I feel really,。
really restless and exhausted. So I got some books and, you know,。
I know where the resources are. So I got this book.。
This book is called, um,。
"Unmasking Male Depression" written by a Christian psychologist,。
Archibald Hart.。
Now Hart has been a professor of Christian psychology in Fuller Seminary in。
California for many, many years from 1970,。
early 1970s to, to the 2000s. Um, he ended his career,。
um, uh, teaching at Fuller until 2016.。
And he just passed away at Be With The Lord in 2021 during the。
pandemic. And he wrote this book. And by the way, this is not,。
this may not be one of the best books on market,。
but this is a very, very helpful book. So I picked up this book.。
I didn't know what this book is all about. Right.。
It talks about male depression. Hey, I'm male.。
I feel depressed. Right. And by the way, there's,。
there's also another book he has written with another psychologist,。
um, on female depression. So I picked up this book after the first chapters,。
I could not put it down.。
I could not put it down because it's like a mirror and。
telling me what kind of depression I am going through,。
what kind of emotional state I'm going through and the signs and symptoms and all。
that, and how to deal with that,。
how to allow me to have room to deal with the dark emotions。
inside my mind, right inside my feeling.。
So I find this book is a life-saving book for me. Now I struggle for it.。
I struggled for probably two plus years. Yeah. Two plus years serving in the church.。
And, uh, you know, my plate is full and I'm full of activities. Right.。
But in the middle of the night, I'm just find myself, you know,。
struggling and exhausted.。
And this book helped me to clarify a lot of issues I was going through.。
Now I give you this example because I want to tell you, we have to,。
um, have the wisdom to manage our emotions.。
We do. We do. Okay. Don't learn from the previous generation.。
Right. They're doing the wrong way. You know, they deny it,。
but what is the way out? Right.。
How do we manage emotions correctly, properly and wisely?。
Right. So these are some of the resources that you should have.。
And in the morning service, I also mentioned, uh, probably there was a necessity。
for us to go to see a counselor. You know, in Chinatown,。
we have a wonderful growing ministry of counseling.。
Um, I don't know what the English is, but, um, they are trilingual.。
So English, Cantonese, and Mandarin,。
and you can call them and set up an appointment and you can see。
a counselor, a professional counselor, uh,。
well-equipped to help you process, you know, what is going on in your life.。
And usually it's about what four to six sessions.。
Each session is about 50 minutes.。
You talk to a skilled counselor and she or he will be able to draw。
things out of you to help you manage your emotions better.。
I believe there's no healthy question unless we are emotionally healthy,。
unless we're physically healthy, unless we're spiritually healthy.。
And those three things, or even more mental and all the,。
all the other aspects of our lives are intimately integrated together.。
And we need to make sure that we are healthy. Right. So, um,。
if, if that rings a bell, you know, you can come to me and, um, you know,。
I can give you a brochure and give you the information. You know,。
one of my good friends, uh, Dr. Jane Mann,。
Jane Mann is one of the skilled counselors, uh,。
working there and serving the community. And definitely you should try it. Right.。
Um, actually they charge, but it doesn't charge that much. You know,。
I talked to Jane, I said, how do you earn money?。
How do you make it sustainable? Right.。
But the goal of the ministry is to serve the community,。
to serve people like you and me. Right.。
And it's necessary. It's necessary. Right. Um,。
I don't know what happened to you in the past year.。
Maybe the past year has been a really rough year for you. Uh,。
you really struggling. Sometimes we just strip things under the rug.。
Maybe you need to see some of the resources that's out there.。
Maybe you need to see a professional counselor. And by the way,。
don't have that misconception that, Oh,。
I'm going to see a counselor. That means I'm insane.。
No, you can see a counselor and enrich yourself. Right.。
You can enrich yourself by talking to a well-trained。
counselor. Right. Everybody should see a counselor. Right.。
We all need another wise person in front of us to。
draw things out of us so that we can live, um,。
healthily. Right.。
We can live a life that would bring honor to God.。
All right. So we understand all this principles and let's go to God。
and pray that we will continue to live a。
faithful living and, um, uh, live a life of wisdom,。
honoring to God. And then we're going to partake the communion together.。
Let's all pray. Father, thank you.。
Thank you for all the bad and good experiences that we have.。
Curses and blessing you give and take away.。
And you are the Lord who is sovereign over our lives and you're in control of。
all things. Father, once again, we come before you as the first Sunday of。
2024, we commit ourselves into your hand.。
And knowing that you are the God who is kind,。
who is gracious, who loves us so much.。
Thank you for all that you have done through your son,。
Jesus Christ on the cross. You redeem us holistically.。
You'd only not only save our soul, but you save our body.。
You grant us holistic redemption.。
And I pray that our lives will rest in your hand and we'll find the true。
peace.。
Help us God to live in a way that will honor you.。
As we launch into a new year,。
we don't know what you have in store for us, but we know your character.。
We know you are a good God. So once again,。
we pray that you will hear our cries, hear our struggle,。
help us to grow spiritually, physically, and emotionally, mentally,。
healthy in such a way that we will draw closer and closer to you.。
Thank you for being there and walking alongside with us,。
even in our dark times and also in our good times.。
Thank you for being our faithful God.。
As we enjoy the communion together, take the bread and the cup.。
Help us be reminded how much you love us. In Christ name we pray.。
