All right.。
Good morning, happy new year.。
Southwest Airlines, if you go to Dallas, Texas, there is a Herb Kelleher Way.。
Not sure if you ever heard the name of Herb Kelleher.。
He was the CEO and chairman and president of Southwest a number of years ago, a couple。
decades ago, retired.。
When you think of Southwest Airlines, you think of one of the premier efficient customer。
service on time.。
It messed up pretty badly, as Mark is a testament of.。
And over 25,000 flights around the country were all messed up.。
And the reason being why?。
Southwest got too confident.。
They knew they were one of the best, best price, best efficiency, all of that stuff.。
They started letting things go lax.。
They started not to invest in different technology.。
They started taking chances, thinking, you know what, we'll just keep riding.。
We'll make sure we continue to make the most profit.。
All the stuff that Herb Kelleher wanted to do, efficiency, customer service, on time,。
everything, all started being lost in the whole process because they all became about。
making money for the bottom line.。
And as a result, they didn't have to upgrade any of the equipment.。
And as a result, they paid for it as what we saw this past in the last couple of weeks.。
And that's a topic that we're going to talk about today.。
It goes to this whole theme of power, a topic that we never really talked about before.。
How do we steward the power that God gives us?。
All of us have power.。
All of us have influence.。
All of us have gifts.。
All of us have skills.。
Financially, what we're able to do, our work, our status, our position in life, we all have。
power.。
How do you then steward that power well?。
One culture and in all throughout history, we've always seen the use of power and the。
misuse of power.。
We've seen this picture.。
I've shown you this picture before.。
And for those who are new, a lot of times if you go over to Russia as well, too, President。
Putin, when he meets dignitaries and people come in, he wants to show you his power.。
And he wants you to come and meet him in this room.。
That is a demonstration of power because he wants to show you that he's in charge.。
Another thing, we've seen the misuse of power throughout history.。
We see Adolf Hitler, who used his power to continue to ravage around all of the world。
and go against people groups and abuse and enslave them.。
We've also seen this.。
We celebrate the two-year anniversary of the January 6th insurrection at the White House.。
We see signs like Jesus saves Christians who are saying that their pastors or churches。
and all that stuff who are going into the Capitol building and saying that the election。
has been rigged and who's sitting there going after the vice president, different state。
officials in order to really be able to allow a person who many believe is the king of that。
power to remain in power.。
We look at culture as well, too.。
Look at this.。
When we think of the future of AI or artificial intelligence, pretty soon many of you guys。
who are in the tech field, many of your kids who will be in the tech field will have massive。
amounts of power.。
We see cars that are now driven without hands free.。
Everywhere you go from McDonald's in different places, kiosks, you go to the United Center,。
they don't have cashiers or airports, they no longer have cashiers.。
Everywhere you go in, you sit there and you show them your phone and whatever you take。
now is charged on your phone.。
And as more and more data begins to really be built, as more of these computer systems,。
artificial systems begin to understand your ways and gather more data, power begins to。
be built.。
And that power through artificial intelligence can be used for good, but it also can be used。
for evil.。
Social media, as we begin to see, can also be used for good and also used for evil as。
well, too.。
We're seeing things like Twitter and Facebook, which are beginning to aggregate your behavior.。
They're feeding information that caters to what you believe in.。
As Christians who are working in technology, whether it's AI or in some of these technology。
companies, how do we think what is best for the world?。
We need Christ followers in these areas to steward that power well, to really be able。
to say what decisions do we have to make in our jobs, in these industries, to continue。
to create a world that cares and balances, but not be used and abused by different people.。
Power is found in artificial intelligence.。
It's found in social media.。
Power can be used for evil, but power also can be used to inspire and to help.。
We saw this picture in 9/11.。
One of the most powerful images that you ever see, and I'm not even saying whether you're。
Republican or Democrat, and for those who are watching as well, too, this is a picture。
of President George Bush.。
When 9/11 hit, President Bush went over to New York City and grabbed a microphone, and。
he reminded the people that he hears them.。
He gave hope in the world that needed hope.。
He's retired now.。
I'm not sure if you know what President Bush is doing right now.。
He does this for a living.。
He paints pictures of immigrants, and he tells their story of hope.。
If you go over to Bush Library, I have been there over in Dallas as well, too.。
He paints images of each person, their face, and he tells the story of how they have overcome。
trials, and he gives us a picture of hope within that.。
And one final thing, Chick-fil-A, the story of a company who uses their power for good.。
That when you go through the drive-thru or go into the restaurant at Chick-fil-A, what。
is it that you hear from every single employee?。
"How may I serve you today?"。
You see the story of Dan Cathy, who really believed as a Christ follower that he wanted,。
as he says, that we are here to serve.。
We keep the needs of operators, their team members, and customers at the heart of our。
work, doing what is best for the business and best for them.。
And as a result of that, in every single situation, we serve the customers, we serve our clients,。
we serve our staff employees.。
How can we serve you?。
And they continue to build a brand, and every single time you go to Chick-fil-A, your orders。
are usually correct, you are treated well, and the customer service is phenomenal because。
it stands for the glory of who he works for.。
As Christ followers, our topic today, I'm going to go back to this, is this.。
That Jesus gives us a new framework of power.。
That we are called not to give up our power, but we steward the power we are given for。
the gospel.。
That's the big idea I want to get across today.。
When I think of power, when I want you to think of power, the influence that you have,。
the skills that you have, the money that you have, Jesus gives us a new framework of power。
as we're going to look at John 13 today.。
That as Christ followers, we are not called to give up our power.。
That is never the case.。
You don't give up your power.。
But you steward your God-given power, your God-given skills, your God-given talents,。
your God-given resources in the form of money and status, and you steward that power we。
are given for the glory of the cross and for the gospel.。
If you have your Bible, let's take a quick look over in John chapter 13.。
We begin in verse 3.。
John 13, verse 3.。
Or actually, you know what, let's start in verse 2.。
Going to supper when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's。
son, to betray him.。
Jesus, knowing that the father had given all things into his hands and that he had come。
from God and was going back to God, rose from supper.。
He laid aside his outer garments and taken a towel, tied it around his lilies.。
Verse number one, point number one.。
Jesus knew what power he had and where his power came from.。
Jesus, knowing that the father had given, I'm reading from the ESV, had given all things。
into his hands and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper.。
Jesus knew what power he had.。
Jesus knew who had given him the power.。
As Christ followers, we know that Jesus gives us power.。
We know that God gives us power.。
We know the skills that you have, the talents that you have.。
We know the position, the job that you have, how smart you are, the resources, financial,。
how rich and wealthy you are financially, is all given to us by God.。
We know where that power comes from.。
We know what power we have.。
Now at the same time, what are you doing with it?。
We're reminded in John chapter one, automatically, if you look at John chapter one, story of。
John chapter one begins this.。
In the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God.。
He was in the beginning with God.。
All things were made through him and without him was not made any, was not anything made。
that was made.。
In him was life and the life was a light of men.。
The light shines in the darkness and darkness has not overcome it.。
Way back in the beginning, John one, we were reminded and John gives us the entire backdrop。
of this is who Jesus is.。
This is the power that Jesus had.。
He was at the beginning.。
John chapter two, we begin to see the story of what God has.。
John chapter three, who does he encounter?。
He encounters Nicodemus.。
Nicodemus comes up to him and says, "Rabbi, who are you?。
Are you the teacher that we were expecting?"。
And that many of you guys are all familiar with John chapter three, the most famous of。
the verse.。
What does he say to him?。
For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son.。
That John chapter one tells us and gives us an option of this is who Jesus is.。
At the beginning of life, when all of this was not even created, there stood Jesus, the。
living word.。
Jesus is the rabbi in John chapter three, in which Nicodemus comes to him.。
Jesus, as Jesus tells Nicodemus, "I am the savior for God so loved the world that he。
sent me his one and only son, that whoever believes in me shall not perish, but have。
eternal life."。
And he says it to who?。
Pharisee, teacher of the law, a Jewish man.。
A man who believes that his power is only focused on the Jews.。
And Jesus tells him, "You're wrong, because when God sent me and my power, it was for。
the world."。
And story after story after story, if you look at John chapter four, chapter five, chapter。
six, chapter seven, you see the story of Jesus and the Samaritan woman.。
Jesus in chapter five, Jesus and the Gentile official.。
John chapter six, Jesus and the invalid.。
John chapter seven, Jesus and the feeding of the 5,000.。
Story after story after story of what it means to love the world.。
What it means to use your power for good.。
Jesus knew his power.。
Jesus knew where his power came from.。
Now the big question, point number two, is that during supper, when the devil had already。
put into it, Jesus, knowing that the father had given all things into his hands and that。
he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper.。
He laid aside his outer garments and taking a towel, tied it around his waist.。
And he poured water into a basin and began to wash his disciples' feet.。
Point number two, once we know our power, once we know where our power comes from, point。
number two, you make a choice of what you're going to do with that power.。
Jesus made a choice of what he's going to do with that power because we are called as。
Christ followers not to give up our power, but we steward the power we are given for。
the gospel.。
And if we know what our power is and we know who gives us the power, what choice are we。
going to make to do with that power?。
He gets up from the meal.。
What choice are you going to make for that?。
During in the last couple of weeks, I've gotten a chance over the Christmas break to sit down。
and I've gotten a chance to talk with two individuals.。
Let me backtrack in that one time.。
All of us as individuals, as Christ followers, make a choice each and every single day of。
what we're going to do with that power.。
You're asked to steward that power.。
You could take that power and continue to build up your own life.。
That's easy.。
You could take that power, enjoy a comfortable life.。
That's easy too.。
But how do you begin to use that power and make a difference in your life?。
One such example of that person that sticks out to me is right here in the Bridgeport。
area.。
If you ever go down, there's a dental office right near Healy Elementary School.。
For those who are watching, Bridgeport is this neighborhood that we're in.。
There's a guy by the name of Dr. Sam Park.。
Sam Park is a Korean dentist who is overseeing and is the lead dentist for Bridgeport Children's。
Dental.。
Sam Park and I have known each other for a long, long time.。
Sam Park is one of the most generous individuals as a Christ follower that I knew.。
When I worked in the church, he was the elder of a church up north when I first met him.。
If there is one person who teaches me so much about generosity, it's Mr. Sam Park, Dr. Sam。
Park.。
Every single day, Sam walks in.。
And every single day, he wants to create a dental office that really ministers and serves。
the community well.。
Every single employee is tasked with treating every single one of your employees that as。
a Christian, that he wants you to experience the love of Christ through all of his employees。
as soon as you walk in.。
Dr. Sam Park sits down with every single one of his employees.。
And he sits there and he wants to talk with them about what their goals are, what they。
want to earn in life, and how he could serve them well.。
Dr. Sam Park, when I first started Resource Global, we had no money.。
Sam Park was one of the most generous individuals that I knew.。
He knew that our organization had no money.。
This was about 12 years ago.。
And when he knew it was payroll time, he would always give me a call and says, "Tommy, how。
are we doing on payroll?"。
And I would sit there and say, "Sam, things are a little short this week," or, "Hey, we're。
working through some donations and when you're first starting about 12 years ago, you're。
kind of always short."。
And right before payroll, about a couple days right before payroll came, I would open up。
my check in the mailbox and there was a check from Dr. Sam Park, every single payroll.。
He showed me what it meant to really be able to be generous in everything that we do.。
During Christmas break, though, I had two conversations with different people.。
And both of them were very bad conversations because all of us as Christians are stewarding。
our power well or good, but also some of us choose this in a way.。
And so one of the conversations I had was a phone call from one of my employees who。
told me, "Tommy, I just wanted to let you know that we finalized our divorce with my。
husband.。
My husband has recently, he had cheated on her for about a couple times in the last few。
years.。
And as a result now, he wanted to divorce her, but he wanted the house.。
And negotiations were not going very, very well.。
And it got to a point where he felt like as the male person in a Christian fellowship。
or in the marriage, the woman had to defer to him.。
And he ended up getting the house.。
And as a result, they had to tell their kids after Christmas, who had no idea that their。
parents were getting a divorce, that the wife, as well as the kids had to move and the husband。
was getting a divorce.。
Second conversation I had was with another person who says, "Tommy, I would like to have。
a breakfast."。
And she got together and we sat down and I said, "How are things going?"。
And she says, "I just want to let you know I separated from my husband.。
My husband also is one of these individuals who really believes that in a marriage, the。
men are in charge and women submit to the authority of men.。
And as a result, Tommy, I'm the primary breadwinner," this lady tells me.。
And she is.。
She makes millions every single year through her business.。
But she says, "I have to come before my husband.。
I pay for everything in our house, everything from electricity, mortgage, everything I pay。
for.。
But he won't let me spend any money until I get permission from her because he's the。
man of the house.。
When we raise our kids, when we disagree on what the kids need to do, I have to submit。
to him.。
Our kids always have to always submit to him in anything he wants, even if they disagree。
because he's the man of the house."。
My daughter tried to commit suicide three times, Tommy, because she couldn't stand my。
husband anymore.。
He was so domineering.。
He was always telling her she wasn't good enough.。
And so one day she wrote a note to him about why she wanted to take her life.。
And she gave it to him and says, "This is how you made me feel."。
And he says, "I am the man of the house.。
Biblically I am in charge."。
We have a choice of what we do with our power.。
We have a choice of whether we use and steward our power for good or for bad.。
God has given each one of us, young or old, certain skills, certain resources, all of。
that.。
We sit here with certain power.。
What is the choice that you're going to make to do with power?。
Jesus gives us this new framework of power.。
Jesus who knew what power he had, he knew where his power came from, makes a choice。
to stand up, take off his robe, and begin to wash his disciples' feet.。
Because you know why?。
He was not concerned about status stemming from his power.。
He was not concerned about status.。
And the disciples had to learn something.。
In Luke 22, right?。
As they were walking over to dinner, you know what they were arguing about?。
Who is going to be the greatest in the kingdom and who is going to sit on the left hand and。
right hand of Jesus?。
That's the discussion that they were doing.。
That's what they were arguing about.。
They were concerned about their status.。
And as Christians, one of the things that Jesus teaches us in this whole idea of the。
upper room, the last supper, is don't be concerned about your status.。
He takes off his robe and he begins to take a basin of water and washes his disciples'。
feet.。
The Roman author writes this and he says this, "Even today, many cultures preserve the。
sense of shame that accompanied the feet in Jesus' day.。
The lowest part of the body, the one most covered in the grime of the world, far more。
grimy in Jesus' day than our modern sidewalks, and the most likely to smell a sweat and toil.。
To touch another person's feet was an act of profound subjugation fit only for a slave.。
The feet were the antipodes of power, kept away from the table, toward which all guests。
lean, accorded the least attention, and was the least dignified.。
Within a normal feast, some household slave would have performed the foot washing.。
Should the ritual of foot washing somehow be neglected by the servants attending the。
feasts, it would have been the job of the least powerful guest present, making a quick。
and entirely calculation status, to quickly take up the culture and perform the duty."。
Amongst the people in this room, who was going to be the least?。
Was it going to be Matthew, the tax collector?。
No, not Matthew, the tax collector.。
Was it going to be the two, the fishermen that were sitting there, Peter, James, or。
John?。
It certainly was not going to be Judas Iscariot.。
He had already sold out Jesus and he was hoping to grab all the money for himself.。
That wasn't going to be him.。
Who was the least amongst all these twelve?。
It was going to end up being Jesus.。
Jesus makes the choice to take off his robe and start washing the feet of the disciples.。
He takes off his outer clothing, he wraps a towel around his waist, and after that he。
poured water into basin and began to wash his disciples' feet, drying them with the。
towel that was wrapped around him.。
And verse 12, "When he had finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes and returned。
to his place and he says to them, 'Do you understand what I have done for you?'。
He said to them, 'You call me teacher and Lord, and rightly so, for this is what I am.。
I am your teacher.。
I am your Lord.。
But now that I, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you shall also wash one。
another's feet.。
I have set you an example that you should do as I have done for you.。
Very truly I tell you, no servant is greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater。
than the one who sent him."。
We know our power.。
We know where our power comes from.。
We make a choice of what we do with that power.。
We don't get caught up in the status of that power.。
And in the process, we change the paradigm of how we perceive power and how people perceive。
power.。
Jesus gives us a new framework of power.。
And that framework of power is not to give up our power.。
A lot of times people interpret that when he took off his robe that he was giving up。
power.。
We do not give up power, but we steward the power that we are given for the gospel.。
And that particular incident was so powerful, we still talk about it to this day.。
We're still preaching to this day.。
Universities, MBA programs, professors are still talking about what it means to be a。
humble servant, that one of the best ways of a CEO is to be the servant leaders.。
Whether it's Christians or non-Christians, many of them will tell you, you have to be。
a servant leader.。
Because this framework became so successful, it changed the trajectory of how we look at。
leadership and how we steward our power well.。
Jesus gives us a framework of power.。
We're not called to give up our power, but steward the power you and I are given for。
the gospel.。
Let me give you some final thoughts, and I want to show you one video, okay?。
Number one, application time.。
Many of us as young people, I say this to young people, technology has completely created。
the ability for all of us to be an influencer.。
Some of you guys who are here, or those who are watching, technology has elevated all。
of our platform where any individual can now jump on YouTube or Facebook or Instagram and。
whatever it is, and create a video.。
And you have the ability to be an influencer.。
Many of you guys who are sitting here right now are talented and bright enough to be the。
CEO and executive of your company.。
You will have more riches than I will ever imagine.。
You will have more power than you will ever know what to do with it.。
My biggest encouragement for you, make a choice of what you're going to do with that power.。
For instance, a lot of times when money, I heard this from one donor who taught me well,。
and this donor says to me, Tommy, as you get older, and before you even become rich, figure。
out what you're going to do with your money.。
A lot of times people always say, well, you know what, I'm going to keep saving my money,。
I'm going to make sure I have kids, I'm going to put away from savings, all of that stuff,。
and as I get wealthier, I'll start giving away and all that other stuff.。
And he says, no, no, no, Tommy, before you even become rich, before you even get that。
great job, figure out and make a decision of what you're going to do with your resources.。
Why?。
Because when you become wealthy, and when you get that power, you're going to be too。
tempted to serve yourself.。
Make a decision in your head right now, what you're going to do with that money, what you're。
going to do with that power, what you're going to do with your life, what you're going to。
do with your skills.。
Make a decision and commit to it.。
Point number one.。
Point number two, continue to learn to submit.。
As you continue to grow in your power and your influence and what you're able to do,。
learn to continue to submit to the people around you, and also learn what it means to。
continue to grow in humility.。
I say this one thing because I have this one girl in Jakarta, bright girl, very, very bright。
girl, very talented.。
She's about 24 years old.。
She even made it to Miss Indonesia.。
She's pretty talented.。
And in the midst of that conversation, you know what she says to me?。
She says, "Tommy, I hate when people say no to me.。
I disregard anyone who says no to me."。
And we've had to have a conversation that sometimes as you grow in your power, you have。
to learn to submit and surround yourself with people who say no to you.。
That sometimes in the midst of our power, you got to make a decision, but you got to。
continue to maintain that humility and continue to really be able to learn to submit to the。
people around you.。
Number three, application.。
Learning from Jesus doesn't guarantee you will make the right decisions.。
It's the decisions that you have to make each day.。
Why is that?。
That who was present at this last supper?。
You had Judas who literally watched what Jesus did, watched what it meant to be a servant,。
and what does he do later on that day?。
He sells out Jesus for pennies on the dollar.。
He betrays Jesus.。
Who's also sitting in that room?。
Peter.。
And what does Peter do?。
He betrays Jesus.。
Learning from Jesus does not guarantee you're going to lead the correct life.。
It's a decision that you have to make each and every single day because we are written,。
we are living by the gospel.。
The gospel guides us in all that we do, and there's a choice that we make each and every。
single day.。
And the one final illustration, when you serve as a servant, don't ever expect anyone to。
return that favor back.。
Do not have any expectations of what people can do for you.。
Too often, a lot of times, when we do something for someone, what do we do?。
We expect it to be done in return.。
That when you and I use our power, our God-given power, our God-given talents, and our God-giving。
resources, don't expect anything in return.。
Because when we start expecting things to return, you're going to be sorely disappointed.。
Serve out of the gratefulness of your heart.。
Serve out of the glory of what the grace of God has done for you.。
Serve out of the joyfulness of your God.。
We understand the power that we have given.。
We understand who has given us the power.。
We make a choice each and every single day to steward that power.。
We don't care about status.。
And in the process, we change the paradigm of how people perceive power.。
Because Jesus gives us a new framework of power.。
We use that power and we ignore that power, but we steward the power that we are given。
for the gospel.。
Let me show you one person who did it really, really well this past week.。
For those who do not watch football, and for those who are watching American football,。
there was a situation that happened on Monday night football, where one of the players from。
the Buffalo Bills tackled one of the opposing players on the Cincinnati Bengals.。
The guy stood up, the guy who tackled, stood up for a minute or so and then collapsed and。
went into cardiac arrest.。
Game was canceled and we didn't know if the player was going to make it or whatever it。
is.。
And all throughout the entire football community came and offered up prayers.。
But out of all that prayer, one person, a Christ follower, who had a platform, set an。
example and showed us what it meant to do use his power well.。
Phoebe, let's show that video.。
>> Football gave me everything.。
And I think even through the midst of absolute tragedy last night, I think you saw some of。
the beauty of football as well that it's brought us all here together.。
This is a little bit different.。
I've heard it all day, like thoughts and prayers.。
You just heard Sheriff and Jonathan Allen say all we can do is pray for them.。
I've heard the Buffalo Bills organization say we believe in prayer.。
Maybe this is not the right thing to do, but I want to pray for them.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> I'm going to pray for you.。
>> What decisions are you going to make to impact your community, to impact this church, to impact your city?。
It's a decision that you're going to have to make each and every single day.。
It's a decision that sometimes in the midst of understanding power you're going to make that doesn't benefit you.。
It's not going to reward you in any way.。
And that's what we're called to do.。
We're called to be stewards of that power.。
We're called to be sacrificed because we have the greatest example of the person who sacrificed his very life to die for our sins.。
It's a choice that he had to make.。
It's a choice that all of us as Christ followers who are saved by grace each and every single day, we make that choice to continue to be an influence in all that we do.。
To live by integrity.。
To embrace that power.。
To understand that power.。
To not care about status.。
To love every single person and to serve the world as we know it.。
Let's pray.。
Father, thank you for these wonderful people in this wonderful church.。
Thank you for bringing home Mark safely.。
Thank you for those who are here for Christmas vacation.。
We thank you for people like even Dan Orlovsky who uses his platform as a Christ follower to continue to show us and demonstrate what it is.。
But dear Jesus, you are the model of what that power and sacrifice is.。
You showed us not only what it meant to wash the feet of the disciples.。
You gave us a new paradigm of power.。
But you took it to a new extreme and died on that cross so that we are here.。
And we still talk about that powerful servant attitude.。
You give us inspiration and you give us hope.。
Let us make those decisions every single day to honor you.。
In Christ we pray.。
Amen.。
Thank you, Father.。
Thank you so much, Tommy.。
God bless you.。
And I want to ask you for prayers as we meet today, this afternoon, with the old and new Quartermembers.。
We're going to try the course for the next year or so and I pray that you will pray for our leaders as well.。
Okay?。
So God bless you.。
