(Chinese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
(Chinese)。
I can sleep until 2 or 3 am。
I use this retaliation tool to treat myself。
I don't know if you have the same feeling。
It's exactly because I see my own work is so hard。
I really want to use this tool to reduce the stress。
The insomnia brought by this tool is to bring some compensation to my soul。
I don't know if you have experienced this kind of life。
We are so tired that we can only pay attention to our own stress。
We use the tool to satisfy ourselves。
Although we read the Bible every day。
But we seem to not see or experience God's compassion。
Not experiencing his understanding。
The title of today's lecture is "Come and See"。
I want to use the story of the trumpet leaf being called。
To see how God lets people experience themselves。
The text is in the PowerPoint。
Let's read together。
1, 2, 3。
One day Jesus wanted to go to Galilee。
He found Philae and said to her, "Follow me"。
Philae was the wife of Archbishop of Barsuch, and was from the town of Andalusia。
Philae found the trumpet leaf and said to her,。
"What Moses wrote in the Law and what the ancestors wrote。
We have seen it, and it is the son of Joseph, the son of Nazareth, Jesus"。
The trumpet leaf said to her,。
"Is Nazareth a good place to be?"。
Philae said, "You see"。
Jesus saw the trumpet leaf coming to her。
And said to her, "Look, this is a man of Israel。
He has no evil in his heart"。
The trumpet leaf said to her,。
"How do you know me?"。
Jesus said to her,。
"Philae said, 'I have called you,。
and you are under the tree of the fruit of the woods,。
and I have seen you'"。
The trumpet leaf said to her,。
"You are the son of God, and you are the king of Israel"。
Jesus said to her,。
"Because I am under the tree and I have seen you,。
do you believe that you will see greater things than this?"。
She said, "I am telling you again。
that you will see the heaven opening。
and the messenger of God coming to the people"。
Let us pray together。
God, we thank you for preparing our hearts,。
our ears, and our eyes。
so that we can speak at this time。
so that we can see how you speak to us。
especially when you protect the mouth of the child。
When I preach,。
let us see how you lead us。
We thank you, we pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen。
The background of today's story。
is the story that took place on the way to the Galilee。
According to John's record,。
Jesus received two disciples,。
one was called Andrew and the other was Peter。
The next day,。
he called Philae。
and on the same day, he met with the trumpet leaf。
Who was the trumpet leaf?。
The trumpet leaf seemed to be a friend of Philae。
Philae had just decided to follow Jesus。
He said, "Follow me" and immediately followed。
Jesus。
He hurried to the trumpet leaf。
to tell him a good news。
that Philae had arrived。
Philae was a big news to the people at that time。
Because in the New Testament,。
although the Jews had their own territory,。
they did not have military power。
nor any real autonomy。
Under this pressure,。
everyone was looking forward to God's promise。
to execute the promise。
that God would send a mighty king to save them from the trap。
Generally, the Jews believed that the Savior。
would use military power。
to help the Israelites rebuild the long-term security of the land。
So it is not hard to imagine。
that when Philae was talking about his arrival,。
he was very excited。
He wanted to tell the trumpet leaf the good news。
He also said it very clearly。
He said, "We have seen it. He is the son of Joseph,。
the son of Nazareth, Jesus"。
I wonder if we are all excited like this in the beginning。
Would we be so excited to tell others。
to witness how we experienced the love of God?。
How did the trumpet leaf respond?。
He said, "Nazareth?。
What else is there to tell?"。
Why did the trumpet leaf look down on Nazareth?。
Did the place offend him?。
Today, Nazareth is a tourist attraction。
But it used to be a small village with no reputation。
on a small mountain in Galilee。
And the Bible also mentions。
where Nitzah was born。
She was born in Bethlehem。
Bethlehem is a fertile land with abundant food。
and close to Jerusalem, the political center。
She was the queen of David。
Nazareth is a poor and unpopular place。
How could she be the queen of Jerusalem?。
On the other hand, there is a story about the trumpet leaf。
Why did he not believe it?。
Because he was saved。
He was saved。
By what?。
Because people in the past。
would sometimes live their lives under the name of savior。
They tried to overthrow the Roman regime。
but they often failed。
For Nazareth,。
is this a message?。
Is this a news that deceives people's hopes?。
Yes, Nazareth's suspicion of the testimony of Philae。
or the fact that she has a bias。
or that she does not dare to hold on to the news of Nitzah。
But it seems that her suspicions are reasonable。
Because when faced with suspicion, Philae did not respond。
She did not try to defend herself。
Her response was only three words。
She said, "You come and see"。
The original text is also three words。
Let me read it。
"Er ko kai ide"。
Yes。
"Come and see"。
It is really translated like this。
It is a word with two similar meanings。
If translated into Chinese, it is "Come and see"。
What does it mean?。
In fact, Philae meant。
"I have no answer to your question, Nazareth"。
"Why don't you come and see for yourself?"。
"I will go with you"。
This reflects that Philae has 100% confidence。
Even if she has no absolute answer。
she still believes in Jesus who touched people's hearts。
She will personally respond to Nathaniel's question。
And Nathaniel really agreed。
He followed Philae to see Jesus。
to see if the Nazarethite is really coming to Cairo。
He probably did not expect that this journey would change his life。
Then he said, "Jesus saw Nathaniel walking over and he said to him,。
'Look, this man of Israel has no deceit in his heart'。
Nathaniel finally saw Jesus。
But it was unexpected that Jesus could。
express his true nature in front of everyone。
and praised him for being a man of Israel。
who has no deceit in his heart。
Here, you might think of the name "Israel"。
It comes from the Arabic word "Arabic"。
It is the one that is related to the Bible。
The Arabs have used false names to describe Jesus。
They have lied to his brother, his father, and his uncle。
So here, he said that Nathaniel is an Israeli herald。
but he has no pre-existing deceit and fraud。
How can this be considered as a praise?。
Also, Jesus' praise is not a compliment。
If it is a compliment。
Nathaniel would not respond, "How do you know me?"。
For example, since I was a kid。
I have always liked to use my phone。
I would watch a lot of IG reels to see how people are taking care of their kids。
It turns out that encouraging babies is a lot of learning。
It turns out that the praise on the surface。
like saying that babies are good, babies are good, babies are great。
But it is not enough to encourage babies to put in the effort。
and say that babies are good, babies are great。
It is not enough to help them, but instead, it harms them。
Such false praise will actually hinder the development and growth of babies。
What do I want to say?。
I want to say that Jesus' praise has a point。
It is a very important point。
God's praise to Nathaniel is not on the surface。
It is directly to his heart。
It is not a praise that he is a good person。
Or this is the virtue that Nathaniel has been working hard for his whole life。
It is the theme of his life。
At this moment, Nathaniel was very surprised。
Because Jesus really spoke the truth about his inner self。
Jesus and I have not met each other。
He knows me so well, and knows me so well。
Where do you know me from?。
Jesus replied, "When Philip has not called you yet,。
I saw you under the fig tree."。
What does it mean?。
What is Nathaniel doing under the fig tree?。
In tradition, the rabbis like to be under the tree。
because it is hot and there are trees。
to preach, to read the Bible, to think, and to pray。
Is Nathaniel the same?。
The Bible does not explain。
We do not know what happened。
But what we are certain of is that under the fig tree。
is a very important key。
This keyword, plus the context of the story。
can actually make Nathaniel surrender。
What is the key to this door?。
Or is this a secret between Nathaniel and the Almighty God?。
Only he and Nathaniel know。
Jesus is the son of God, and he is very powerful。
He knows where Nathaniel has been before。
He has knowledge of space and time。
But what is even more powerful is his vision。
that can change people's minds。
In fact, this passage emphasizes the vision。
You see there are three visions in the book of Hallelujah。
In fact, the whole passage has seven visions。
But this one has three。
All are about Jesus seeing Nathaniel。
Even before Nathaniel opened his mouth。
Jesus had seen him, recognized him。
Sisters, what does seeing God's face bring you today?。
Excitement? Surprised? Or unease?。
Maybe we think that our hearts are so dark。
I have been in the final turn of the Lord for so many years。
Jesus, my Lord, will you be disappointed?。
Will you dislike me? Will you be angry with me?。
Or, God, I am doing well now。
I have a job, a relationship, a friend, a family, everything is going well。
You and I are just right。
The church is still going on, the dedication is still there。
But what moved me before。
Don't let me see it again, I don't want to see it again。
I don't want to respond to you, God。
You'd better not find me, don't see me。
It turns out that being seen by God。
seems to bring some uncertainty。
But we should know that seeing God。
is actually a more abundant meaning。
In the Old Testament, seeing God。
is related to the need of the persecutors。
and the meaning of salvation。
I remember last week we went to the church to train。
A React team leader took us to see a scripture。
He said the 2nd chapter of the book of Ezekiel。
Brother brought us to see how God saved Moses。
He saved the whole Israeli people。
The whole plan was based on God seeing God in person。
Even in the book of Genesis。
If you remember, the man named Haggab。
He was an Egyptian priest。
He was driven away by Sarah。
God saw his suffering。
and allowed him to protect him。
God's grace moved Haggab。
and moved him to call Jehovah the God of seeing。
The React team brought me here to sing a song。
It's about seeing God。
I've never heard of it, but it's a good match。
You all know it, it's 139。
It says here, "My body is not yet formed。
Your eyes have long seen God。
Your days, my last day。
Are all in your hands, writing down your will。
How precious your thoughts are。
How abundant your prayers are"。
Can you see it?。
God's vision is not a cold, frozen system。
It's not a boss who gives people money。
That's right, God sees the evil that people do。
He will judge people according to justice。
But for us, God's people。
Our citizens。
God does not use fear to mislead us。
Instead, he uses his knowledge of superhuman。
and his insight into people。
to arrange the best for our beloved children。
He calls us to rely on him when he knows what to do。
It's like I mentioned my baby。
My son is learning to walk。
He hasn't walked yet。
I don't know if he can walk today。
He's good at holding things and moving them around。
Sometimes he's very naughty, playing with electric wires。
He's like a little baby。
My dad is always watching him work。
and checking if he's in danger。
He's very good at electric wires。
He can even pull out the cable。
and snap it off。
He's very scared。
My dad is observing him。
and checking if he's in danger。
What would he do in an emergency?。
He would run away, right?。
Would he let him touch him?。
Is God like this?。
He watches us work。
He protects us in an emergency。
and even runs away。
Sisters。
God's watching over us。
is a full of love and respect。
When Nathan went to Jesus。
He was wearing a lot of chains and suspicions。
and even disbelief。
Jesus did not give up on him。
Because God's watching over him。
is not a weakness。
On the contrary, God saw。
how Nathan。
even in this weakness。
still responded。
"Come and see"。
In the weakness。
he still responded。
"Come and see"。
Now, Nathan has experienced this hardship。
This knowledge。
this knowledge of transmission。
even shocked him to say。
"This man in front is Laban, the son of God, the king of Israel"。
Each of these sentiments is a huge amount。
It's like the question at the beginning。
"Is it possible that Nathan is a Nazarene?"。
has become unimportant。
Do we have anything that keeps us close to Jesus?。
Like Nathan, is there anything we don't understand?。
I encourage you, sisters。
to carry the question in your heart。
"Come and see"。
Take a look。
Because Jesus is calling us。
"Come and you will see"。
Go forward and take a look。
Test Jesus。
Open up your life。
to experience this faith of walking and seeing。
"Come and see"。
The story is almost at the end。
Jesus' response to Nathan。
is very encouraging。
He continues。
"For I say, because I saw you in the fruit of the fruitless fruit,。
you will see greater things than these。
He also said, I tell you,。
you will see the heaven opening,。
and the witness of God coming down on the Son of Man"。
What does this mean?。
What does greater things mean?。
What does heaven opening mean?。
What does the witness of God mean?。
Coming down on the Son of Man?。
Actually, Jesus is quoting an old scripture。
in the Old Testament。
When he was dreaming, he saw the sky ladder。
This is in the 28th chapter of the book of Genesis。
If you have time, you can take a look。
There is an image。
When he was dreaming, he saw the sky ladder。
The witness of God came down on the Son of Man。
After that, the Archon thought, "Wow, God is so powerful。
He is here, I didn't know that"。
He changed the place to Bethel。
which means the house of God。
Simply put, this dream is a powerful spiritual experience for the Archon。
It allows the Archon to experience the presence of God。
It is a blessing to the people on earth。
Jesus redrew this picture。
But the description is a bit different。
Can you see it?。
One is a ladder, the other is a Son of Man。
The Son of Man, in the book of Genesis, is talking about Nehemiah。
Actually, it is talking about Jesus himself。
So the witness of God came down on Jesus。
Jesus used this example to prove that he is the one who is the witness of God。
He is the bridge between man and God。
If we use John's word, Jesus is the road。
In the Old Testament, God told the angel about the miracle。
Now, Nehemiah appears。
He is the ultimate miracle。
Jesus is the miracle。
The so-called "reincarnation"。
It means a new era has begun。
If we look at the Bible, the first thing we see is the image of Jesus。
The bigger thing is the signs of Jesus。
We are all familiar with the 5-2-2, the 5,000-man-servant, the water-changing wine, the resurrection of Lazarus。
All these seven signs are shown in John's Gospel。
Why did the author show it this way?。
He also combined the seven "I"s in Jesus' words。
You may have heard of "I am the food of life"。
We just talked about "I am the light of the world"。
We are all familiar with it。
The "I am" echoes the "I am" in the Old Testament。
"I am the food of life"。
It means Jesus is talking about his "divine nature"。
So what I want to say is。
We need to see what we can see。
How God, through his miracles and his words, tells people who he is。
Just like today, the 9th chapter。
The Bible already has seven different names for Jesus。
Can you see it?。
The word may be too small。
It says "Nahahwite"。
"Nahahwite" in the Bible。
"Jerusalemite"。
"Lazarus"。
"Lazarus" in the Bible。
"Jerusalemite"。
"Jerusalemite"。
The Bible is really powerful。
It already has so many names in the Old Testament。
But each name has a deeper meaning。
The door is still one and a half。
Perhaps Philip or Nathaniel knew that。
Jehoiachin was going to be raised up by the cross。
But I think they never thought。
The place of the raising up was not a political throne。
On the contrary, Jesus was going to be raised up by the cross。
God wanted to show the door of the cross to the people。
To show the meaning of each of the "cleansing"。
Because Jehoiachin wanted the reader to understand who Jesus was。
To understand the true meaning of "the door of the cross"。
In the past, the Gospels were in the city of Bethlehem。
In the New Testament, Christ lived among people like a scene。
Today, Christ is still living with us。
He still lives in us。
The Bible says, "Do you believe?"。
"You have to see the greater things"。
It turns out that "believing" is not our end。
We have to slowly pursue the greater things。
God has ordered us to experience Him more。
To see Him more, to see Him, to understand Him。
To experience His love。
I will share a story。
I remember once my wife and I went on a visit。
For some reason, the visit was already a milestone。
In other words, after visiting this time。
There should be no more chance to visit these families。
That night, God gave us a feeling。
Every time we visit a family。
We would like to pray and bless them。
We would like to ask God to take care of them and to protect them。
When we went to this visit。
We met this visitor。
She was a homeless woman who was homeless。
My wife and I prayed with her。
After praying, God touched us。
We asked her, "Do you believe in Jesus?"。
She didn't even think about it。
She said, "Yes, I do"。
We asked, "Really?"。
"Yes"。
I was very careful at that time。
Why?。
Because I thought that if I invited people to believe in Jesus。
They would eat lemons。
So I confirmed my wish。
But I didn't expect that this time。
I just responded to the touch。
I prayed with them。
And asked them if they wanted to believe in Jesus。
God arranged for my wife and I to go to the harvest together。
To witness the resurrection of the human soul。
She said she believed in Jesus。
We immediately prayed with her。
And helped her to find a suitable church。
To give her a suitable church。
I thought it was amazing。
After that, my wife and I debriefed with other church members。
We realized that it was not us who brought this woman to face God。
It was God who brought this woman to face God。
To give her to me, my wife, and even the baby in her womb。
To witness her amazing work。
To let us witness the glory of God's work。
I realized more today。
God seemed to be telling us。
He was telling me。
God had blessed my family to serve Him。
I was looking for a way to go forward。
I was worried that my family and my service would be dragged down。
God saw through my needs。
Through this visit, He seemed to be telling me。
Adrian, don't look at your own limitations。
Look at me with confidence。
Respond to my love with love。
You and your family will soon see。
What I do in your lives。
Today, I pray to God。
I pray that God will help us to open the eyes of the Holy Spirit。
When we are willing, we can see more。
The Holy Spirit will help us。
Through the Bible, we can witness the Holy Spirit。
We can understand the truth and richness of the Holy Spirit。
I pray that God will help us。
to see God's presence in our lives。
to see God's glory in our difficulties。
to see God's work in our service。
Sister Ling, next Wednesday, March 5th。
is the Holy Fathers' Day。
It is the beginning of the Holy Father's Day。
Traditionally, the faithful will fast and pray。
to practice repentance and self-awakening。
until the day of resurrection。
Yes, we are very busy today。
We are so busy that we have no time。
We don't even have time to call Jesus。
It is really not easy。
But are we willing to。
in these 40 days of the Holy Fathers' Day。
to separate our eyes from the Holy Spirit?。
Will we learn not to only focus on our own busy schedule and pressure。
but also to learn how to practice self-awakening。
and to stop doing things。
I have heard people say something。
in these 40 days。
They say not to drink coffee or milk tea。
or not to sleep after 12 o'clock。
or not to use your phone before going to bed。
For me, I used to say。
not to do things that are a retaliation。
to put down our old habits。
and use our physical feelings。
to focus more。
and pay more attention to Jesus。
I would like to invite you to be quiet。
and to pray together。
We have a time to meditate。
(music)。
Today, let's see if we can recall。
the vision of Jesus。
That vision can go beyond the weakness in our hearts。
and reach our true nature。
God uses the eyes of His love。
to look at us, who are so fragile。
He doesn't want to scare us。
He wants us to feel His tenderness。
Are we willing to open up our lives。
to put down our old habits。
and weaknesses。
and embrace Him?。
At the same time, we are thinking。
Today, we have been faithful for a while。
Do we have a deeper desire。
to know Jesus Christ?。
The Bible tells us。
that His name has many meanings。
It has deep, meaningful meanings。
that we may not have discovered yet。
Lord, open up our mouths of the Holy Spirit。
to help us。
Through the words of God。
Through our spiritual practice。
Through our worship。
Give our hearts to our Lord。
Let us pray together。
Lord Jesus, You are the God who can hear people's prayers。
Today, we may have different thoughts。
in front of you。
We may not dare to look at you。
We may feel very helpless。
or we may not want to be so close to you。
But the Lord has given us the opportunity。
to look at you。
Through this vision。
we can see your warmth。
Lord, open up our eyes。
Open up our mouths of the Holy Spirit。
We also want to see。
the many difficulties in our lives。
that are actually filled with your beautiful words。
Sometimes, it may seem like wishful thinking。
But I know it's not。
It's a desire。
When you give us the power of your eyes。
we can see。
that there is another perspective。
and this perspective is to fulfill your beautiful words。
Help us。
Open up our ears。
Open up our eyes。
to see that。
what you have given us is the best。
We are weak。
but we ask for your help。
We pray with our hearts。
to be able to。
serve you, Lord Jesus。
Amen。
Let's stand up together。
and sing "Let Yourself Go" again。
I hope this can be a prayer。
to the Lord Jesus。
Let yourself go。
I kneel and offer my life。
I dare not look at you。
I dare not see you。
I face the ground。
and discover myself。
My blood is boiling。
I have lost。
I have been through a lot。
With the power of my eyes。
Let yourself go。
I kneel and offer my life。
I dare not look at you。
I dare not see you。
I face the ground。
and discover myself。
My blood is boiling。
I have lost。
I have been through a lot。
With the power of my eyes。
I pray that you can teach me how to live。
I can hear you speak day and night。
You have inspired me。
I continue to seek and explore。
I pray that you can teach me how to live。
I look at myself。
and seek you。
I put my hands up。
and wait for you。
We let ourselves go。
We tell Jesus。
We humble ourselves before you。
