(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
(Cantonese)。
When a person needs to lose weight and keep fit。
he needs to eat too。
When he went out to eat with his friends。
what did everyone ask him for in the restaurant?。
One said, "Can I have a tofu wafer, please, with a cold flower tea"。
Another said, "Can I have a pork rice bowl with a cold milk tea"。
And another said, "Can I have a meaty noodle with a cup of tea"。
When you need to lose weight。
and control your calories。
and you want to scream out loud when they talk about food。
and you are tempted by many things。
you need to rely on your strong willpower。
to tell yourself, "No, I need to keep on losing weight"。
Then you tell your boss, "I want a chicken breast rice with corn juice。
but with rice, please, with hot water"。
I believe you are very deliberate when you say this。
because you have a goal to keep on doing it。
and you scream out loud to resist the temptation of food。
I think this is a story about how you need to lose weight and keep fit。
I also want to say that as Christians。
not only do you exercise。
but we also need to keep fit and exercise。
Today, we will look at the Bible in Genesis 1-21。
to see if there is anything in our faith life that we need to remind ourselves to persist。
so that we can turn around。
Let's read the Bible together。
Let's read together。
Ready, go。
"And the Lord said, 'What the Lord has done。
is more cunning than the harvest of the whole world.'。
And the woman said, 'What the Lord has done。
is more cunning than the harvest of the whole world.'。
And the woman said to the snake, 'We can eat the fruit of the tree in the garden,。
but the fruit of the tree in the middle of the garden.'。
And the Lord said, 'You cannot eat nor touch, lest you die.'。
And the snake said to the woman, 'You will not die,。
for the Lord knows that when you eat, your eyes will be opened,。
and you will know good and evil as the Lord does.'。
And the woman saw that the tree was good for eating,。
and it was pleasing to the eye,。
and it was pleasing to the eye,。
and it made men wise.。
So she plucked the fruit and ate it,。
and she gave it to her husband,。
and he also ate it.。
And their eyes were opened,。
and they knew that they were naked,。
and they plucked the fruit of the tree and made themselves naked.。
Then the wind rose,。
and the man and his wife heard the voice of the Lord coming and going in the garden,。
and they hid in the garden,。
and they hid from the Lord.。
And the Lord called out to the man,。
and he said to him, 'Where are you?'。
And he said, 'I hear your voice in the garden,。
and I am afraid,。
for I am naked,。
and I have hidden myself.'。
And the Lord said to him, 'Who told you that you were naked?。
You ate what was on the tree,。
and I told you not to eat.'。
And the man said, 'You are like the woman who was with me,。
and you ate what was on the tree,。
and I was scared.'。
And the Lord said to the woman,。
'How could you do such a thing?'。
And the woman said, 'Who told you that I was naked?'。
Let's pray together.。
Let's pray together.。
God, please help us.。
Through your words, we have received help and guidance.。
And we ask that the Holy Spirit moves in our hearts。
so that we can have concentration。
and understand what you want to say to us.。
Let's pray.。
Let's pray.。
In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.。
Let's move on to the Bible.。
In the first to the fifth chapter of the Bible,。
it talks about the conversation between the serpent and the woman, Hawa.。
When we look at the fourth chapter,。
the serpent says to the woman,。
'You will not die.。
For God knows that when you eat,。
your eyes will open, and you will know good and evil like God.'。
The serpent wants to induce Adam and Hawa to eat the fruit of the tree of good and evil.。
But let's go back to the third chapter.。
In the second chapter, God has given them a command.。
God says, 'You cannot eat the fruit of the tree of good and evil.。
You can eat the fruit of the tree of good and evil,。
but if you eat the fruit of the tree of good and evil,。
you will die.'。
But the serpent tells the woman,。
'You will not die.'。
The serpent adds a character to the word,。
which is the word 'not' in Chinese,。
to describe God's words.。
God says, 'For God knows that when you eat,。
your eyes will open, and you will know good and evil like God.'。
God wants to induce people to doubt God's love for people。
and the meaning behind God's words.。
God wants people to think that God is selfish.。
He wants to make people not want to eat the fruit of the tree of good and evil.。
God wants to make people not want to eat the fruit of the tree of good and evil.。
God wants people to make people not want to eat the fruit of the tree of good and evil.。
We can see that the devil wants to provoke people to have a grudge against God.。
He wants people to doubt God's words and orders.。
He wants people to think, 'Why can't I eat the fruit of the tree of good and evil?'。
At this time, the devil has placed the seed of doubt in people's hearts.。
The serpent indeed induced the devil.。
Gradually, the devil no longer believed God's words。
or God's orders and intentions.。
He committed a crime.。
I think the sixth chapter talks about。
when the serpent induced the devil,。
he took action.。
He said, 'Then the woman saw the fruit of the tree of good and evil,。
which was very good,。
and could be used as food.'。
It was very beautiful and pleasing to the eyes.。
It was also very pleasant to the eyes and made people love it.。
So the woman picked up the fruit and ate it.。
She gave it to her husband, Adam,。
who was with her.。
Let's look at the sixth chapter.。
'The woman saw the fruit of the tree of good and evil, which was very good,。
and could be used as food.'。
In the original text, it means 'the woman saw that it was good.'。
Do you remember what happened in the first two chapters of Genesis?。
God created the heavens and the earth.。
When God created the heavens and the earth,。
do you remember God created the birds in the sky,。
the stars, the sun, and so on?。
God also said, 'God saw that it was good.'。
The two sentences and the two descriptions are very similar.。
What is it about?。
It turns out that people want to be gods or to be their own masters.。
They want to decide what is good,。
what is good, and what is right.。
They think they should act according to their desires.。
Behind the scenes, she is hinting that。
the woman is doubting God.。
God said that the fruit of the tree of good and evil is bad for people.。
It will kill people after eating it.。
She thinks it is not true.。
It is not right.。
The fruit of the tree of good and evil should not be decided by God.。
It should be decided by people's standards,。
their will and desires.。
We can see that。
after Adam and Eve broke God's command,。
the consequences of the crime were immediate.。
It brought great destruction.。
In the Bible, it is explained to us that。
after Adam and Eve ate the fruit of the tree of good and evil,。
there was great destruction.。
The destruction was caused by the relationship between people and God.。
We can see that after people ate the fruit of the tree of good and evil,。
they began to avoid God's face。
and fear God's voice.。
This caused a barrier between people and God.。
The relationship was broken.。
Before the crime, people were very close to God.。
They would meet in Eden.。
They would talk and talk.。
They enjoyed being in Eden.。
After the crime, they became estranged from God.。
Their relationship was broken.。
The crime also affected the relationship between people.。
Adam and Eve were in the crime.。
Adam once described Eve.。
He said, "Eve is the flesh of my flesh and bone."。
What is it?。
It is the flesh and bone.。
It is a very intimate relationship.。
He would never separate from her.。
He loved her very much.。
But after the crime, what did Adam say?。
In verse 12,。
"Nahum said, 'You are like the woman who was with me.。
She gave me the fruit of the tree,。
so I ate it.'"。
It is said that Adam began to shirk his responsibility.。
He accused Eve of being very dissatisfied with her.。
This is when people and people's relationship began to change and weaken after the crime.。
In the same way, people and themselves also changed.。
Before the crime, Adam and Eve were in the flesh.。
They did not feel ashamed.。
They were not affected by the crime.。
But in verse 7,。
after the crime,。
people and themselves also broke up.。
He said, "When they saw their flesh and bones, they hid."。
They realized that their flesh and bones were ashamed,。
and they felt uneasy and did not want to face themselves.。
Sisters,。
I think that after the crime,。
or after Adam and Eve experienced the crime,。
they understood one very important thing。
about the relationship between people, themselves, and God.。
They thought they could decide what was good and what was bad.。
But they realized that they had to create everything.。
God, who created everything, knew everything.。
He knew what was good for people.。
God told them not to eat the Nine Fruits of the Cross.。
In fact, it was to prevent the greatest destruction,。
whether it was for people, God, or themselves.。
God had a good intention behind the command of people.。
He wanted to do good for people.。
I think it's like when a teacher is a parent,。
or when you meet children,。
what would you tell them?。
Tell them not to play with fire,。
not to talk to strangers.。
I think it's not just about controlling flesh and blood,。
not allowing them to do anything.。
It's actually to protect children from being hurt.。
I don't want them to experience any horrible things.。
I'd like to tell you a story about a person.。
Imagine this is a scene.。
Imagine a person,。
when he goes to school,。
he tells a bad joke behind his classmates' back.。
If someone finds out,。
he'll be told a bad joke by others.。
I think when this happened,。
it destroyed his relationship with his friends and classmates.。
People no longer trust him.。
Or when he gets home,。
he wants to watch something romantic,。
whether it's a video of a 18+ person.。
I think he's afraid of being seen by his family.。
He's also afraid of being caught in some situation.。
Maybe he saw his history on his phone.。
"Why did you go on this website?"。
Maybe he's afraid of being known.。
He's afraid of being embarrassed.。
He knows he's done something wrong.。
He's afraid to face others,。
afraid to face himself.。
Or maybe he's late for home,。
he's late for his appointment.。
He's having fun with his friends,。
or he's busy with something.。
He didn't reply to his parents' messages.。
When he got home, his parents asked,。
"Why are you home so late?"。
"We're worried about your safety."。
"Your parents are so annoying. They're always in charge."。
Then he started to yell at his parents.。
I wonder if you've ever experienced arguing with your family.。
Arguing with your family is uncomfortable.。
When you get home, you're embarrassed.。
You look at your family like you're in a cold war.。
You're always feeling anxious.。
This is a situation where you're not in a good relationship with your family.。
I think if this is how a person lives,。
he can say whatever he wants to say.。
He can look into the eyes whenever he wants to see something bad.。
Or if a person is angry,。
angry, or upset,。
he can say something rude or yell at others.。
I think you can imagine that in this person's life,。
his interpersonal relationships will be ruined.。
I think people don't like him,。
and he doesn't like himself.。
He's living with his friends and family.。
Or if he's a Christian,。
he's a Christian,。
he'll feel guilty about his relationship with God.。
He'll do something that doesn't go with his heart.。
It turns out that sin will make people,。
themselves,。
others,。
and God。
break up.。
Let's go back to these three scenarios.。
Sometimes, in order to break up,。
God uses the Bible to remind us,。
to give us a guideline to face the situation.。
The Bible says,。
"Do not judge others."。
That is, do not criticize others,。
lest you be criticized.。
The Bible also reminds us to be ready for the punishment.。
When we face our family,。
as children,。
we should learn to obey God.。
It's about respecting our parents.。
The next time God reminds us,。
we should not criticize our parents.。
We should listen to their concerns.。
We should be patient and listen to them.。
We should listen to them with respect.。
What do I want to say here?。
I believe most of you have been in church for a long time.。
Maybe you've been in church since you were young,。
maybe you've been in church since you were in K1.。
You know a lot about the Bible,。
or you know a lot about God's commandments,。
reminders, and orders.。
I think when you read the Bible,。
you can easily and quickly respond to the teachers,。
to the preachers,。
and to what we should do.。
But I want to ask you,。
when you say these things,。
you know what they mean,。
but do you understand。
what God's will is。
when He gives us these commandments and words?。
Have you ever doubted it?。
"Yes, I think it's true."。
I think it's like when you compare yourself to people who don't believe in God.。
You think there are a lot of things you need to follow in Christianity.。
Like there are a lot of do's and don'ts.。
You're not satisfied with the requirements.。
You think people outside are more free.。
You have a lot of restrictions.。
But what I want to tell you today is。
that God's orders and commandments。
are actually God's good will.。
These orders and commandments are not just some cold do's and don'ts.。
They are not just something you have to follow.。
God's love for people is behind these orders and commandments.。
God wants to help us get rid of our sins and desires。
through the commandments and commandments.。
God wants to bring us a relationship with God,。
or destroy us with God, ourselves, and others.。
God wants to give us a rich life.。
But I believe this rich life is about。
a relationship with God, ourselves, and others.。
We humans tend to doubt a lot.。
We think God has given us a lot of harsh requirements.。
But it turns out that God's good will is behind it.。
God's good will is behind the commandments and commandments.。
God wants to remind us not to be influenced by our sins.。
So that when we understand God's good will,。
we can follow God's good will.。
So that we can experience a wonderful life with God and ourselves.。
Let's continue to look at the next part of the scripture.。
When we look at the scripture,。
when Eve committed a sin,。
she said her eyes were opened.。
She knew she was naked.。
When she was ashamed,。
in order to cover up her shame,。
what did she do first?。
In the seventh chapter, she said,。
"She made a garment of unripe fruit for herself,。
and made a dress for herself."。
As I mentioned,。
this is the third chapter of Genesis.。
The first and second chapters of Genesis。
talk about God's creation of the universe,。
the sun, the earth, and many other creatures.。
At that time, the word "creation"。
was often used to describe God's creation.。
God created something, and so on.。
In the seventh chapter of Genesis,。
it is the first time that people。
started to use their own abilities。
to create things for themselves.。
This is the creation of a dress.。
Before Eve committed a sin,。
she relied on God's creation.。
God created the whole earth,。
the air, and everything else that they could enjoy.。
They didn't need to rely on themselves.。
It was a beautiful state.。
But after committing a sin,。
they started to rely on their own abilities。
to make some amulets.。
After committing a sin,。
they felt the shame in their lives,。
the fear and anxiety.。
They used their own methods to face it.。
But when Adam and Eve。
used the leaves of a fig tree。
to make a dress for themselves,。
did they feel the shame。
in their bodies?。
Or did they feel like they were not brave enough to wear it?。
I think you may feel that。
you can't cover your body completely.。
Even if you wear it,。
you may feel unsafe.。
You may feel uncomfortable.。
I think Adam and Eve tried their best。
to use their own abilities to make amulets.。
They used the leaves to make a dress。
to try to cover their feelings of insecurity and shame.。
But they found it was not very useful.。
They still felt a lot of shame.。
In the 8th episode,。
they immediately talked about it.。
When they found that what they did。
was not able to cover their own feelings of insecurity and shame,。
God came to Adam and Eve.。
God said in the 8th episode,。
Adam and Eve heard the voice of God walking in the garden.。
God called them.。
God called them and asked, "Where are you?"。
"Where are you?"。
I think God knew everything.。
When God asked them, "Where are you?"。
He did not mean that they did not know where Adam and Eve were.。
He wanted people to walk out。
and walk out and go back to their creator, their Lord.。
They repent and turn around。
and receive help.。
When people broke God's command and order,。
God did not give up on people.。
He was still very gentle and called people.。
This reflects God's love and concern for people.。
Indeed, when Adam and Eve broke God's command and order,。
they had to bear God's punishment.。
But when we pay attention,。
God never called people.。
Instead, God called the devil himself.。
In the 15th episode,。
when we read it,。
God provided a way to make up for the guilt and fear of people.。
In the 15th episode,。
God said, "I will make you and the woman be enemies."。
"The devil's descendants and the woman's descendants will be enemies."。
God said, "The devil will hurt your head."。
"You will hurt his legs."。
Let me explain what this means.。
The emphasis on the woman's descendants is very special.。
In the Bible,。
it is often mentioned in the name of the father。
who gives birth to whom.。
For example, do you remember who Abraham gave birth to?。
You don't remember?。
Isaac.。
Isaac gave birth to Isaac.。
In many cases, the Bible is arranged by the father.。
It is rarely mentioned about the woman's descendants.。
But in the Bible,。
there is a man who was born from a woman,。
not by the combination of men and women.。
Who is that?。
Yes, it is Jesus Christ who was born from a virgin.。
In the 3 chapters of Genesis,。
God knows that people are affected by sin.。
God has arranged a way to save people in the beginning.。
The way to save people is Jesus Christ.。
It is about the man who will hurt your head.。
Jesus Christ will overcome the devil.。
He will defeat the devil and save people from sin.。
He will restore a beautiful relationship between man and God.。
He will hurt the devil's heel.。
What does it mean?。
It means that Jesus Christ will suffer in this world.。
He will nail a cross on his feet.。
But the purpose of this is to save people.。
When people commit a crime,。
the crime destroys the beautiful life God gave them.。
When they face the guilt, shame and fear in their hearts,。
they want to rely on themselves.。
They want to use the leaf of the vine to make a way to save people.。
But when we compare the situation。
when people rely on their own ability, method and God,。
the situation is completely different.。
The fruitless leaf of the vine。
wants to cover their shame and anxiety.。
But it is too incomplete.。
It is too weak.。
It cannot help people to cover their fear and shame.。
It cannot restore the relationship between man and God.。
But the way God offers to save people。
is to allow Jesus Christ to save people.。
He helps us to overcome our sins。
and restore the relationship between God and man.。
In the 21st chapter of the Bible,。
God made a leather garment for people。
before they were forced to wear clothes.。
It is a proper garment.。
People can wear it to keep warm。
and to cover their body.。
The method and connection and grace God offers to people。
is very strong and safe.。
It can cover the shame and anxiety in people's hearts.。
Sister Ding, sometimes we want to rely on our own method。
to cover our fear, anxiety, guilt and shame in life.。
Have you ever experienced something in your life?。
Whether it is quarreling with friends or family,。
or you are very self-abased and don't like yourself,。
when something happens,。
do you feel like this?。
When people ask you, "How are you recently?"。
You say, "I'm okay."。
You pretend to be cool and nothing happens.。
Or do you sometimes fill your schedule。
so that you don't have to think about unhappy things?。
You may participate in more activities,。
hang out with more friends,。
use more cell phones,。
watch more videos on YouTube or look at more Instagram.。
Or is your method。
to make up for your failure?。
You want to improve your performance。
and increase your self-esteem.。
Sometimes when you do this,。
you may have some problems in your life。
that you don't know how to deal with.。
Or you may have a lot of anxiety and fear.。
You want to use these methods,。
whether it is to be busy,。
to satisfy yourself with some achievements,。
or to improve your sense of value and existence.。
Frankly speaking,。
as a translator,。
I sometimes do this.。
I want to avoid uncomfortable feelings。
and use my own methods.。
But have you noticed that when you use these methods,。
they only make you feel better in a short time?。
When you use achievements to prove your value,。
you will find that when the results rise and fall,。
your value will rise and fall with the results.。
I don't know if you are in the same situation.。
I want to share my story.。
Maybe you in China have never heard of my story of growing up.。
I grew up in a single-parent family.。
When I was in primary school, my parents divorced.。
Then my family, me, my mother and my brother,。
went to live with our own money.。
I remember that my life changed a lot。
after my parents divorced.。
I started to feel very uncomfortable and shy in my family.。
I think the most intense thing was。
when I was in primary school,。
I usually didn't know what to do after school.。
Maybe my friends and classmates would go to school to study.。
I would usually tell my classmates,。
"I'm going home."。
Because my family didn't have enough money to send me to school,。
or to send me to study.。
I wanted to study.。
During this process,。
every time I compared myself with my classmates,。
I would feel that my family was worse than others.。
I felt ashamed and insecure.。
What was my method at that time?。
I wanted to erase this feeling of unhappiness.。
I focused on studying, and I tried hard to study.。
I wanted to be a good student,。
to prove that I was worth it.。
I was okay.。
I wanted to cover up my shyness。
or the feeling of being inferior to others.。
But I found that when I got good grades,。
when I got good grades,。
my heart, my mood, and my value,。
my value of freedom would gradually decrease.。
I used to go to my friends' houses.。
They would say, "Come to my house to play."。
When I saw their houses,。
and compared them with my house,。
I would feel a sudden surge of unease and shyness.。
It was a feeling of uncertainty.。
I think when I was in high school,。
I started to have friends who took me to church.。
I think for me,。
to meet God, to understand God,。
and to understand the gospel of Jesus Christ,。
the biggest thing for me was。
I believe that God is unconditional love and acceptance.。
God is very clear.。
I know that He doesn't look at me based on my ability,。
He doesn't look at me based on my appearance,。
nor does He look at me based on my family background,。
or my family's growth.。
He doesn't look at me based on whether I did something wrong。
and how He loves me.。
He says, "No matter what I am,。
my most true self is accepted and forgiven."。
Sister Ling, when God went to look for Adam and Eve。
and called them,。
they were still wearing the garment of the tree of the fruitless fruit.。
They were wearing the uncertainty of life。
and the shame of their guilt towards God。
until they met God.。
But when they were so honest and true。
and went to meet God,。
when they admitted their needs and weaknesses,。
God finally。
helped them with their affection and their grace.。
He prepared a garment of the fruit of their guilt。
and a garment of their skin.。
I believe that God's love and affection。
erased the anxiety, shame and fear in their hearts.。
I don't know if you want to experience。
the grace God gave us.。
I would like to invite the worship team.。
Sister Ling,。
God has been looking for us.。
But sometimes we are like Adam and Eve.。
We hide ourselves and don't want to be found by God.。
But God is still calling us today.。
We can bring our life's problems,。
weaknesses and shame。
to God。
and receive God's help.。
I want us to rise up。
and write our response to God through this song.。
