- Thank you very much, James.。
Yes, so for those who don't know me, my name is Joe.。
I am James's brother.。
Some of you might think, "Oh, they kind of sound alike.。
They kind of speak alike."。
The truth is we're not that much alike at all.。
Clearly, I use a lot more shampoo than he does.。
Some of you will get that later.。
I'm a lot more handsome, a bit taller.。
But one thing we do have in common is actually our mission.。
We've actually been living separately for about 10 years in different countries and。
different continents.。
It's actually only recently that we got together in Hong Kong.。
It's actually very special to serve with him, especially on my wedding weekend.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
I actually want to give a special shout out to Pastor John, if he's watching, and the。
team, anyone who was involved in hiring James.。
You gave him a young, a very talented, a very bolding pastor from England, and they took。
him to Hong Kong.。
And because you guys gave Pastor James a chance, I got to meet my lovely mother and father-in-law。
future, Agnes and Vincent.。
Because of Gauntwood Church taking a chance on James, I got the chance to meet the love。
of my life, and I get to marry her in two days' time.。
So, very, very good.。
It has been a busy weekend.。
I'm going to be honest.。
And apologies if I have a lot of wedding talk coming out of my mind, but there's two things。
that I need to do, which is the two S's.。
I just need to shower and show up on Monday.。
Differently, Alex has spent the whole week doing her nails, doing her lashes, doing her。
hair, dress fitting, and it's been a busy week.。
But so many people, I could just see this picture of so many different bridesmaids,。
and bridesmaids, and so many friends helping Alex prepare for her big wedding day.。
That actually draws a parallel to a bigger picture of a bigger wedding.。
How the church, how we need to prepare the church for our big wedding day when Jesus。
comes back for the bride.。
And so today we're going to talk about missions and how do we prepare the church for that。
day.。
I'm going to start off with a quick question.。
I have the slide here.。
Within 15 months after the earthquake in Haiti, and you've managed to raise a million dollars。
to help with the recovery, you start to research different organizations that work there.。
What would be the first question you would ask?。
What's the first question that you would ask them?。
Now many of you might ask actually, where does my money go?。
How does my money actually help the people on the ground?。
How many people can be helped on the ground?。
How quick can the resources get to the people on the ground?。
How many people does $1 help?。
So we ask all these very practical metric questions.。
But actually the first question we should ask, first question that I actually ask before。
I join any charity that I work for is a very simple question.。
Is how do you define poverty?。
Because how we define poverty would actually determine how we respond to poverty.。
There's a lot of doctors, people in the room, if you have a wrong diagnosis, you're going。
to be using the wrong solution, the wrong medicine.。
And so it's very important to actually get the right definition of poverty before we。
actually begin.。
So let me ask you this question.。
What do you picture?。
What do you envision when I tell you a group of people living in extreme poverty?。
In Hong Kong, you might think of people living in caged homes, just blocks down the road。
from here.。
Some of you might even think of a slum community somewhere on the African continent or in Brazil。
or South America.。
I like to choose these images, some of you actually might picture images of children。
malnourished, starving, with maybe a fly on their nose and just this really sad picture。
of them.。
That's probably the picture that we think of straight away because that's what charities。
and marketing has done for us when we think about extreme poverty.。
I don't like to use those pictures because I feel like they take away the dignity of。
the people that we're trying to help.。
And actually, one thing that I actually could talk to you about is poverty is complex.。
I remember the first time I got to encounter poverty face to face.。
I was a teenager at the time and I went to Uganda.。
I think I was about 17.。
It actually all started from one afternoon where I skipped school and I went to watch。
a movie and I just forgot that my mum's here and I just told her that I skipped school.。
And don't worry, it wasn't something I did regularly, once or twice a week.。
But funny story, actually, James taught at the same school that I was attending, so the。
teachers were okay and they weren't too good.。
I wasn't missing much.。
But occasionally, I would have these weekends where I'd go, instead of going to class, I'd。
go and educate myself in the AMC Institute, the AMC cinemas.。
And in that particular day, I went to watch a movie called The Last King of Scotland.。
Has anyone seen that movie?。
Yeah?。
Fantastic movie, James McAvoy, an incredible actor.。
It's about the Ugandan dictator, Idi Amin, and the oppressive rule that he lived and。
ruled in, in Uganda at the time.。
I remember sitting at the cinema thinking to myself, how is this happening?。
How is it that there's a whole group of young people my age in Uganda that are sometimes。
sent into being child soldiers, sent into doing horrible, horrible things, and I'm sitting。
here on a Thursday afternoon, not in my geography class, but in AMC cinemas, and I realised something。
was horribly wrong.。
And so no matter what definition we have for poverty, we can all agree on one thing, that。
it is wrong.。
That this, that picture that I showed you before, this is not what God had in mind when。
he said in Genesis 131, and it is good.。
We all agree with that.。
World Bank actually talks about poverty as those who live under $1.90 a day.。
So anyone who lives under that line lives under the poverty line, in extreme poverty.。
And I got to first encounter extreme poverty after watching Last King of Scotland in that。
movie.。
And I remember a few months later, I had so much compassion that it led to action.。
And literally four months after watching that movie, I was out there face to face with people。
who lived under the regime of Idi Amin.。
And I spent my whole summer in Uganda volunteering.。
I was primarily doing two things.。
I was painting schools, and I was teaching.。
Two things that I'm terrible at.。
And my fiance knows I'm not a DIY person.。
So here I was painting schools, mixing concrete, trying to build an extra classroom in the。
school.。
And the rest of the time I was teaching English.。
And I had to think to myself, why did I fly all the way here, across the world, to do。
two things that I'm not very good at?。
I was like, God, there must be a better way.。
There must be a more effective way to help people.。
And that's actually when I first learned about the term voluntourism.。
We're actually, we hear a lot of actually stories on the ground where after a group。
of volunteers would come, they'd paint the school.。
The locals would then repaint it back to grey so the next batch of volunteers can come from。
America, from England, and they'd paint the school again.。
Just because they need something for them to do, to feel good about themselves, to take。
some nice pictures, and to go back and feel like heroes.。
And that's sad.。
That's a sad reality.。
And I learned that early on, and I really, looking back at that summer, I probably was。
doing a little bit more harm than good.。
Because all the jobs that I did that summer, a local could have been employed and done。
a ten times better job than me.。
This story though, this story, a man of a hut, you can't picture, you can't see him。
there, but he's got a red t-shirt.。
There was a time after we were teaching, we would go to hut to hut, village to village,。
to get to greet the people, get to know the people.。
We're handing out food, handing out medicine.。
And I remember this man in particular.。
He came, he welcomed me, he says, "Hey, Jackie Chan, Jackie Chan, come inside, come inside."。
And we have two Jackies here, Jackie Chows.。
Anywhere in this part of the world, when they see an Asian face, they're like, "Jackie。
Chan, Jackie Chan."。
So I actually tell them that I'm his nephew, and most people actually believe me.。
So I just hope that Jackie doesn't find out or watch this one day.。
But he said, "Jackie Chan, come inside, come inside."。
And he gave me a sugar cane juice, I remember very clearly.。
And he said this, he said, "Look at my roof, look at my roof."。
And I said, "Oh wow, yes, we can fix that.。
Let me fix that for you.。
I can go to the ATM, get some money, get some things, and we can fix that roof for you."。
And he's like, "No, no, no, no, no, what's wrong with my roof?。
I love my roof.。
I want to tell you a story about my roof.。
I've been working hard for two years, I've been saving, God has been so good, and I've。
been able to build this roof myself.。
And today, it was raining and it didn't leak.。
Isn't God amazing?。
Isn't he faithful?"。
And at that moment, I realized something terribly, terribly wrong with my attitude and my posture.。
Here I was, a 17-year-old, cocky 17-year-old, with a bit more cash in my wallet, trying。
to go and fix everyone else's problems.。
A problem that they'd even ask for me to fix.。
And I realized how embarrassed I felt, how humiliated I felt, offering this man and pointing。
out to him that this roof wasn't good enough.。
In my mindset, all I saw was material poverty, and my mindset was to fix them and give them。
everything that I had in England to him.。
And he'd be happy if I give him a roof, if I give him a Wi-Fi, if I give him everything.。
And I was willing to do that.。
My action, my intentions were right.。
But the ironiest thing is, if I gave him everything that I have from England, is he going to be。
happy?。
Because are we happy back in England?。
I look at England, I see highest divorce rates, highest suicide, depression, anxiety rates.。
Are we happy because we have all these things?。
And we can quickly think and say, "No, there must be something more.。
There must be, must be something better in how to help people."。
And I promised myself that at that moment, I said, "God, I want to help people without。
taking away their dignity again.。
I never want an encounter with what happened with the man in the red t-shirt there again."。
Because I really wanted to do better.。
And so this is kind of what happens.。
I'm going to run through this kind of is how to walk with the poor 101 today.。
James is going to come up a little bit later and share kind of what Jesus says about it.。
But this is kind of the problem.。
I realized that I was the problem, and that my view on poverty was simply material.。
And I had carried these first world superior God complexes to go and help someone.。
And what happens is I go and inflate my ego a little better.。
I go back home and I'm the hero spending a whole summer in Uganda.。
And the people that I help feel more inferior.。
They look at their roof and think it's not good enough.。
And so when we go in with that attitude, as a result, things get worse.。
And it's helping can actually hurt.。
So back to the question I asked earlier, how do you define poverty?。
How do you define poverty?。
Now one of the dangers is we can easily stand in this comfortable room or in the UN office。
in Switzerland or World Bank and define poverty.。
But truly none of us are really going through it.。
So we might actually diagnose something that we haven't even gone through.。
I spent two years of my life living in a place called Bolivia.。
I lived with a pastor and his family in a compound.。
We were by far the world's slowest growing church.。
Because we would only take in people with HIV and AIDS.。
And nobody would want to check out our church because they think if you sat next to someone。
with HIV/AIDS you'd catch it, which is impossible.。
Doctors can tell you more about that.。
But in fact, there was a lady by the name of Laura.。
She had a special place in my heart because every time she had to go into the town for。
treatment I would look after her two year old son Isaac.。
And these treatments would be weeks at a time.。
And I remember during the two years I actually had an evening where I got to chat with her.。
I said, "Laura, look, I've lived here for two years.。
Yes, I speak your language.。
I've learned to even look and be more local.。
But I still don't know what it means to truly come from extreme poverty.。
What is it like for you?"。
Because I didn't want to define poverty in my own way anymore.。
I wanted to ask the people who are actually living through it.。
And she gave me a response I'll never forget.。
And she said, "Joe, for a poor person everything is terrible.。
Illness, humiliation, shame, and fear.。
We depend on everyone and no one needs us.。
We are like trash that everybody wants to get rid of."。
This is the last picture I took of Laura.。
A few weeks after that, actually, the last picture I took of Laura.。
And a few hours after that she passed away and I had to drive about eight hours to the。
village to give Isaac back to her grandma.。
I'll never forget that response that Laura said because not once did she say, "Oh, I。
wish I had an iPhone.。
I wish I had a handbag.。
I wish I had a roof.。
I wish I..."。
No.。
Nothing was material.。
Everything to her was something so deep, so personal, so emotional, and so spiritual.。
And so we're going to actually look at what the Bible says.。
What is poverty?。
How does the Bible define poverty?。
And there's a lot of management consultants here.。
With every problem you're going to have to find the root.。
Where did it begin?。
And we're going to go back to the origin story to actually find out how there is four dimensions。
of poverty.。
The spiritual, social, personal, and material.。
We actually can trace it back in Genesis 2 when we think of the garden and Adam and Eve.。
Because as you think of poverty, was there poverty in the Garden of Eden?。
There wasn't.。
So there was a moment in time when there wasn't poverty and there became poverty.。
And we actually link it back using Adam and Eve as an example where when sin entered the。
world there was four broken relationships.。
And these four broken relationships led to four dimensions of poverty.。
We think of Adam and Eve.。
Adam initially had a great relationship with God.。
He was very close with God.。
But instead of feeling intimate and in love with God, Adam and Eve were expelled from。
the garden.。
So for the first time there was spiritual poverty.。
That relationship God and man was broken.。
There was social poverty.。
Adam and Eve were best friends living in harmony.。
And suddenly with sin, Adam and Eve were starting to blame one another and they had power struggles。
and that started to bicker.。
Personal poverty entered the world as Adam didn't feel secure anymore.。
He started feeling shame and humiliation.。
And last of all, of course, there's material poverty entered the world where God said growing。
and there was going to be toil to work and natural disasters came into play.。
Growing crops and farms wasn't easy anymore.。
So that's the root of the problem.。
That's the origin of where the four dimensions of poverty came from.。
It came from four breakdowns in relationships.。
Now I'm going to link that from Adam and Eve to the people that Hope International serves。
today.。
As James mentioned, I spent pretty much all my adult life living in Bolivia and Zambia.。
And Hope International, we work in 16 different countries.。
We not only work in the countries that are living under the poverty line, we work with。
the communities in that country that are marginalized, that are underserved, where there's least。
NGO presence.。
And something we see time and time again, everyone that we help, we see the four dimensions。
of poverty play out.。
Spiritual poverty, we see a lot of people in Haiti that we're working on a lot this。
year.。
We work with people who believe in witch doctors.。
We work a lot in South Asia, where a lot of people believe in millions of different gods.。
And I can tell you story after story how some of these witch doctors, people would go to。
them for advice in order to get out of poverty.。
And the response to them was actually sometimes to go and do horrible, evil things, even to。
the point of killing small children in order to get out of poverty.。
So we're listening to the wrong voices, and that is great spiritual poverty.。
You can't throw money at that.。
You can give them money and they're actually going to end up way, way worse until they。
realize God and they need to listen to God.。
We see a lot of social poverty.。
Alex, last year, my fiance was living in Myanmar.。
Right now they're going through a civil war.。
There's two groups of people who want to kill each other.。
Again, the economy, the GDP is not going to grow if there's two groups of people trying。
to kill each other.。
You can't give them jobs and give them money to fix it.。
It's a deeper social problem.。
There's a lot of personal poverty in the places we serve.。
In India, for example, there's different caste systems.。
You're born a woman in some of these countries.。
The confidence in everything that you get is very different.。
Something I didn't share about Laura, the lady in Bolivia, was actually at the time。
I helped her find her first job.。
I even got past her interview without even going.。
The truth is she never turned up on her first day because she didn't have the confidence.。
She was so, so defeated in her own value.。
She felt so worthless that I managed to find a job for her, but she couldn't even go to。
the first day.。
Again, it's not a problem of material or money.。
She needs to first solve the personal poverty that she has.。
Finally, in the places we work, we see a lot of material poverty, corrupt governments,。
broken systems, a lot of natural disasters like Haiti, time, year after year, that trap。
people in poverty.。
Going on from what we see today and how the four dimensions of poverty plays out in our。
world today, I want to share one more story about a group of people I also encountered。
and work with.。
However, their poverty manifests itself in a little different way.。
This group of people, I'll see if you guys know and figure out who they are.。
This group of people have deep spiritual poverty.。
Many of them don't believe in God.。
They have no relationship with God.。
Instead, they think that they are God, so they go around living life thinking that they're。
in control of everything.。
This group of people also maybe not listen to witch doctors, but they would worship their。
ancestors.。
They would maybe pay masters and feng shui masters to tell them how to get rich.。
Again, this group of people are listening to the wrong voices.。
This group of people also live in deep social poverty.。
There's towers and towers of apartments.。
They live together next to each other, but no one knows each other's names.。
There's family gatherings every year, but there's always people missing because they're。
arguing about money.。
They're arguing because they have different political or social views.。
There's deep spiritual poverty.。
There's also a lot of personal poverty in this group of people.。
They might exteriorly look very powerful and well put together, but inside there's so much。
shame, there's so much anxiety, and they worry.。
They have insomnia, depression, a lot of addictions and alcoholism and gambling.。
This group of people suffer from deep personal poverty on the inside.。
Finally, this group of people also in the city has a lot of material poor.。
They don't care for them.。
There's many homeless people living in McDonald's.。
There's refugees without homes and education.。
They don't care for the environment.。
They pollute it in order to grow their GDP and in fact, causing global warming.。
Even some don't even believe in global warming.。
Does this group of people ring a bell?。
Can you guys recognise anybody that lives in this type of poverty?。
Well, I'm going to answer the question for you.。
Who are the poor?。
The first thing we need to know before we help do anything, before we help people, we。
need to number one, recognise the poverty in our own lives.。
We need to recognise that.。
We are the poor.。
I am the poor.。
I grew up with a deep fear of public speaking, believe it or not.。
I was super, super anxious.。
I would have severe panic attacks before I get on stage.。
This personal poverty is probably not so different to a material poverty for a lady living in。
a slum in Brazil, which is not very different to someone maybe living in total social poverty,。
in isolation in a mansion somewhere on the peak.。
These three levels of poverty aren't that different.。
The reason is there's only one solution and the solution is found in a person in the name。
of Jesus.。
In Colossians 1.19, Jesus says, "He comes to reconcile all things," which means he is。
the only one who can bring and restore all four relationships and break down all four。
dimensions of poverty.。
So, church, number one thing is before we help anyone, you probably never hear this。
at church, but please stop helping people before you figure out one and two.。
Number one, realise the poverty in your own life.。
You know, Jesus talked about, "Don't look at the speck in someone else, look at the speck。
that you have in your eye."。
Number two is if we're going to help people, make sure that we preach the name of Jesus.。
We can help people materially, but it's just going to be a band-aid.。
Unless we allow Jesus to restore all four dimensions of poverty, it's not going to be。
sustainable.。
And because we need to preach Jesus, we need to work and empower the local church.。
One thing that I love about the organisation I work with is we work in 16 countries.。
We never want our name to be that famous, more than the local church.。
The people, the two, three million families that we help, we want them to thank the local。
church, not Hope International.。
And our job is to work ourselves out of a job.。
We want to empower the local churches so that one day we don't actually need to exist.。
Because only the church can cover the four dimensions of poverty that we talked about.。
Jesus designed the church to address all four sides, not just material, but spiritual, personal。
and social.。
And today as we talk about Mission Sunday, again, James mentioned this, we sometimes。
compartmentalise mission as just a team of people within a church, as part of the function。
of the church.。
We've got Johnny doing great evangelism, Florence and Charlotte doing incredible work with those。
who are needy.。
But actually, missions is not part of the church, it's the other way around.。
The church was born out of the mission.。
Jesus in Matthew 28 gave the great commission and in Acts 1 the church was born.。
So if we consider us a part of the local church, then we are all on mission.。
Amen?。
Amen.。
Okay, so I'm going to pass the time back to Pastor James.。
He's going to share a little bit about Luke 6 and actually what Jesus talks about before,。
because Jesus himself, similarly, he didn't help people from afar.。
He didn't just throw money at them.。
He knelt down, he became poor to walk with them.。
And James is going to shed a little bit more light into what that means.。
Thank you, James.。
Thank you.。
I love how he took us through this journey of all these different types of poverty and。
then he puts it back.。
He nails it with Jesus.。
And he says, "That's the answer.。
That's the answer to all of this."。
And before we leave this place and go, "You know what?。
That's it.。
We're going to go do some stuff.。
Just anything.。
Just go do some stuff."。
I want you to know why you're doing it.。
Don't just do it because it's like, "Oh, yeah, these two seemingly nice guys with a。
British accent are here to kind of present to you something that sounds good and make。
you feel nice and warm."。
This isn't it.。
There's something deeper.。
And that's why we had Alex read that passage.。
You see, Jesus in Luke 6 was doing lots of different things.。
He was healing this man with a withered hand.。
He was appointing the 12 apostles.。
And then there's this moment where he's done all of that and the Scripture says, and then。
he looks up and he looks up at his disciples and he says, "Blessed are you who are poor."。
Luke 6, verse 20.。
I think we might have the slide.。
"Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God."。
Jesus talks about the poor all the time.。
As I said earlier, when he announced himself in Luke chapter 4, as he reads from Isaiah。
61, "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me to proclaim good news to the poor, liberty to。
the captives, to bind up the brokenhearted."。
So he's always talking about the poor, but you see, he's not just making these carte。
blanche statements about a socio or economic status.。
He's not.。
He's talking about something else.。
And then he goes through this, which is the Beatitudes as we know it.。
We see this in Luke 6.。
We also see this in Matthew, which is probably a more detailed summary of the Beatitudes.。
What does Beatitudes mean?。
It means just blessings.。
What he's doing here is he's teaching, and likely he was teaching these over and over。
again, which is why these ones that we read are merely summaries.。
And he's giving these blessings out.。
What is he doing?。
He's ushering the values of a different kingdom.。
He's pushing this in, going, "Hey, this is what matters.。
Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of heaven."。
Can we just pause there and recognise how radical that sounded?。
How radical that, and the Matthew version is, "Blessed are you who are poor in spirit."。
Now, I don't think it's an accident there.。
I think both of them are summarising maybe different points of when Jesus shared this。
with them, but they both highlight different parts of poverty.。
And what is it about the poor?。
It's not just about the financial condition.。
But on the other hand, there is something about the poor where you are that economical。
destitution that you have, that utter desperation that you have that will push you towards the。
Lord, because you have no one else to rely on, because you are like trash to everyone。
else.。
And I think many of us here don't have that.。
Just that story that he shared, that woman, Laura, who just didn't even feel as though。
she could be in anyone else's presence.。
But in some ways, Jesus had a heart for them because they got it.。
They understood it.。
There's this quote, "You don't know that Jesus is all you need until Jesus is all you have."。
And so those people, why does he talk about the poor?。
It's because they know that they don't have anyone else.。
I don't know how many of us have been in that position, where we don't know where the food。
will come tomorrow.。
But again, the food, the money, they are just the material things.。
They are just the temporal things.。
What Jesus is doing here is he is taking his kingdom's values and he's penetrating them。
into our very mind and saying, "There is still more."。
He is talking about a posture.。
How do I know that?。
When he looks at his disciples, when he looks up and he looks at his disciples and says,。
"Blessed are you who are poor."。
We know they're not poor.。
Matthew, the tax collector, was not poor.。
Peter, the fisherman, was not poor.。
And yet he's looking at them and saying, "But you should be."。
Because the gospel, and Tim Keller says this, "Because the gospel is only for those who。
are spiritually poor, but also especially for those who are actually poor."。
Let me just say that again.。
The gospel is only for those who are spiritually poor, who recognise their need for the Lord.。
But it's especially for those who are actually poor as well.。
So where does that leave us?。
Where does that leave us?。
I guess it really makes us think, what kind of spirit do we have?。
And again, it's Keller who talks about this.。
He's saying the thing that he warns the contemporary church the most in big cities such as this,。
is he's warning against a middle-class spirit.。
Do we have a middle-class spirit?。
What's a middle-class spirit?。
A middle-class spirit is just thinking, "I'm entitled to certain things because I'm a good。
person, because I do good things.。
So therefore I deserve to go into heaven.。
Therefore I deserve peace.。
Therefore I deserve health.。
Therefore I deserve success.。
I deserve the partner that I deserve."。
And he's saying, "Don't have that spirit.。
That middle-class spirit is what will destroy you.。
What you do need is to be spiritually poor.。
You need to be poor in spirit.。
You need to humble yourself.。
And only then, and only then will the kingdom of heaven be yours."。
So brothers and sisters, I finish by asking you this question.。
Do you recognize that you are poor?。
Do you want to be poor?。
Would you let go of the things that you think are of value, these earthly things that in。
a moment will disappear and vanish?。
And would you let them go so you then are able to grab on, to be able to grasp onto。
what is eternal, what is of infinite worth?。
And those beatitudes in Luke, they carry on.。
"Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of heaven.。
Blessed are those who are hungry, then you will be satisfied.。
Blessed are those who are weeping, then you will laugh."。
Only when you recognise your need for a saviour will you then truly be satisfied from the。
hunger that you've been experiencing.。
Only when you truly recognise the bad news that exists around the world will the weeping。
then turn into laughter because of what Jesus did.。
So blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of heaven.。
I want to spend a few minutes now just to invite you into a time of personal reflection.。
There's something about this world that, especially maybe our culture where we're like,。
"You know what?。
We need to be self-sufficient.。
We need to show that we bring value to, we need to justify our existence to why we're。
here."。
The first thing we ask is, "What's your name and then what do you do?"。
But just for a moment now, just pause and just go, "Man, I need you, God.。
I am so messed up inside, but I need you."。
And only when we get to that place, that disposition of the heart where we're saying, "Man, we。
can't do it on our own.。
I fall short every single time.。
That even my best works, even everything I do is like trash when compared to the holiness。
of God," and only then, and once we get there, we will then be rich.。
And once we realize how weak we are, isn't it strange how he keeps that secret unlocked。
in this most paradoxical way almost?。
But only when we realize how weak we truly are is then, when we are weak, we are strong.。
Let's just bow our heads now and let's close our eyes as I invite the team up.。
I should invite you just to spend this moment now, again, not just to get yourself into。
a sorry state, but recognizing that even then, the purpose of reminding ourself of the sorrows。
is the joy that comes with trading in those sorrows so that we get to rejoice.。
Just recognizing Romans 3 23, that we all fall short of the glory of God, and there。
is no doubt that we do fall short, but that verse isn't finished.。
We all fall short of the glory of God, but we are all justified freely as a gift, as。
a gift.。
So there is no shame.。
There is no embarrassment in bowing before the Lord our God now and saying, "Lord, I。
confess.。
I bow down before you.。
I've tried to do it on my own.。
I still try to do it on my own.。
Things around me are falling apart.。
The loved ones that I have around me, their health is failing.。
My business idea isn't working.。
My relationship is just falling apart.。
My future just doesn't look clear."。
And it's in that moment I truly believe the Lord is telling us, the Holy Spirit is speaking。
to you and saying, "You are right where you need to be."。
Because if only you would see what I see, that it isn't about this world, that these。
afflictions that you have surrounding you are light and momentary compared to the eternal。
weight of glory that awaits, child, if only you would see you as I see, if only you could。
see the eternity that awaits you, then even when there are troubles, you will take heart。
and know that He has overcome.。
So brothers, sisters, let us own up to, let us recognize our poverty, our need for a Savior,。
and then rejoice knowing that He has come.。
So Jesus, we come before you now.。
We bow at your feet.。
We say that we need you.。
This world is so hard to make sense of.。
We keep messing up each time too.。
But would you help us up again?。
Would you give us the strength to stand?。
And then would you grant us compassion so that it doesn't just leave us here, but that。
compassion would then lead to action as we leave this room, as we visit the desks and。
hear about the missions for youth, for human, anti-human trafficking.。
That compassion that you instill in us would then spur us on into action, but we know that。
compassion only comes when we recognize the compassion you have for us.。
Lord, we need you every hour, every moment of every day.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
