- Okay, it's wonderful to be here with you.。
I'm just gonna take a while, get organized here.。
Flip this off and just to say what an honor it is。
to be with you tonight and to hear John.。
John looked like he was having a good time on the beach,。
but it looked a bit cold to me.。
If I go to the beach, I like to be a little warmer than that.。
So anyway, it's great to be here.。
I was trying to, Mary and I were trying to remember。
the last time we were here,。
but it was within the first couple of years of the church.。
And just to see the impact that Kung Fu Church International。
and Kung Fu Church have had together。
on the one movement all across Hong Kong is really inspiring.。
So it's an honor to be here.。
And I guess tonight really my hope is that I can come。
and together we can encourage one another。
to keep joining together.。
If there are any divisions among us in the city,。
if there's any divisions among us in our workplaces,。
if there's any divisions among us in the church,。
that those we can overcome with this heart。
of bridge building.。
So that's my desire tonight.。
And thank you for that prayer, Michelle.。
Thank you for praying for us.。
And so Michelle kicked off the series last week。
with identifying what are the main issues。
that are in 1 Corinthians.。
And my job is to kind of then step into that.。
I think the official title was party spirit,。
but it's basically looking at the different divisions。
that can rise up among us.。
As Michelle said, or as we were talking,。
I came here to Hong Kong to be a senior pastor。
at Community Church.。
Before that, we were pastoring churches in the UK。
and also in Germany.。
And so for about 22 years, I've been a pastor.。
And at one of those churches, we designed a little booklet.。
And this booklet was called。
"How to Resolve Conflict in a Biblical Fashion."。
So how to resolve conflict in a biblical fashion.。
And the very first sentence of this booklet was,。
"It is normal when we are together to experience conflict."。
And the booklet was very well received.。
And so we thought, this is well received,。
so we're gonna go ahead and put it up on our webpage.。
And so we did that.。
And then somehow in the mysteries of Google,。
which I don't fully understand,。
Google took it and took that phrase。
that when it is normal when we are together。
to have conflict, put that next to our church name,。
and that's how people identified us.。
It was, here we are, come to our church.。
It is normal when we are together to have conflict.。
Okay, not very good marketing,。
but it is kind of normal, right?。
It is normal when people are together。
that over time we can expect some conflict。
because people are messy, right?。
And I'm one of them.。
And as we get into relationships,。
sometimes those relationships can get messy.。
And that's what Michelle was identifying last week。
in her second point of the ministry of Paul。
was that there was a call from Paul for unity.。
There was a call from Paul to come together。
and to overcome these groups.。
So what I'm gonna do tonight is basically。
just look at what that might look like。
to go a little bit deeper in that area.。
And I'd like to do that really by looking at three words.。
I think we're there.。
Oops.。
You definitely do not want me to sing to you.。
So maybe we can go to the slides and then we can look at it.。
If we could go to that first slide, the title slide.。
But basically we're gonna look at these three words.。
The three words when they come up are basically tribe.。
And then we're gonna look at priest.。
And then after priest, we're gonna look at。
what does it mean for the heart?。
So those are the three words we're gonna use。
to look at this question of the heart of a servant.。
Good, so here we are.。
So tribe, priest, and heart.。
So I wanna read to you a little bit.。
This is not like a bedtime reading or anything like that.。
But I wanna read to you a little bit。
from an author named Amy Chua.。
Do you know Amy Chua?。
Does that ring a bell at all?。
Amy Chua is at Yale.。
She's part of their legal, part of their law school there.。
She's written these amazing academic books,。
but she's best known for a book called "Tiger Mom."。
And this is not "Tiger Mom."。
I'm not gonna read from "Tiger Mom."。
But about four years ago, 2018,。
she became very concerned about all of the groups。
that were forming in our world.。
And she became very concerned about the polarization,。
not only in the US, but around the world.。
So she wrote a book about tribes.。
And this is how that book starts.。
It says, "Humans are tribal.。
"We need to belong to groups.。
"We crave bonds and attachments,。
"which is why we love clubs and teams。
"and fraternities and family.。
"Almost no one is a hermit.。
"Even monks and friars belong to orders.。
"But the tribal instinct is not just an instinct to belong.。
"It also is an instinct to exclude.。
"The tribal instinct is not only an instinct to belong,。
"but it's an instinct to exclude."。
Now, hear how Paul starts his section that we read tonight.。
For when one says, "I follow Paul,"。
and another says, "I follow Apollo,"。
are you not mere humans?。
Or in the other translation, human beings.。
In other words, there's an instinct, right?。
And I recognize that instinct in me.。
When I was reading this,。
I follow Paul, I follow Apollos,。
kind of made me think about some years ago。
when we went to visit New York City.。
And I was so excited to go to New York City。
to hear Tim Keller preach in person, right?。
So I thought, "This is gonna be great."。
So much so that one of our oldest daughter。
was kind of thinking I was like a fangirl or something,。
like, "Timmy, I'm gonna hear him," right?。
But it was exciting, right?。
And I recognize that in me.。
But I know that Timmy, or Tim Keller,。
is at his best when he is pointing people to Jesus Christ.。
And he's often, if not almost always,。
at his best as he does that.。
But there's something in us, right?。
There's something in us that wants to group together,。
which is not bad.。
Michelle did a great job kind of laying this out last week。
about unity and diversity.。
But to have groups is not always bad, right?。
One of my colleagues at the university,。
he loves durian, right?。
I, on the other hand,。
well, it's not my favorite, right?。
But we get along fine.。
Hope I didn't offend any durian lovers in here or whatever.。
But yeah, that's just, it doesn't really matter, right?。
It's not a group that matters.。
But there are other groups。
where then it begins to be divisive.。
It begins to be exclusive.。
My mom had a gift of hospitality.。
And growing up, we had a big table.。
And the whole, the phrase that we would hear。
again and again from her is,。
"There's always room for one more at the table."。
But see, there's some groups which says,。
"You can't sit at this table."。
And when the groups become divisive like that,。
when the groups become exclusive,。
and we say, "You, because of who you are,。
"are not welcomed here,"。
then we begin to fall into what Paul is addressing here,。
the group of Apollos, the group of Paul.。
And sometimes we even add colors to them, don't we?。
And we begin to give colors like blue and like yellow。
and like red and like black and like green。
and like white.。
And we give these colors to these groups.。
And then it becomes divisive.。
And it becomes exclusive.。
And then the oneness, the unity,。
which we talked about last week, begins to fall apart.。
That's what I'm gonna talk about tonight,。
is to focus on that because it's not only out there, right?。
We know it to be in the church.。
We know it to always be a design of the devil。
to try to create different groups in a church.。
So we're always on guard,。
as Paul was on guard saying, "This is Apollos."。
Okay, so is that clear?。
That's kind of where we're gonna be addressing.。
And we're gonna be talking right at it.。
That was the tribes.。
But in the tribes, then there is a work to be done。
to be done.。
There's a work that we can do within the church.。
And in this area, then we come to look at the priests,。
the priest role.。
So the work that we do is of the priest.。
And here we need to let Scripture interpret Scripture, right?。
Because Paul is talking about this division.。
And then he says, "There is a work that we do,。
"for we are God's fellow workers," he's saying.。
Now, take a moment and just kind of breathe that in。
a little bit, right?。
To be a fellow worker of God.。
Okay, so think about your work.。
And to imagine that you are working alongside of God.。
The Greek word here is syn-ergo,。
which is literally working together with God.。
Not just doing work for God。
and calling on His help occasionally,。
but to be working alongside God.。
This is the work that we're called to.。
Now, to make this teaching really practical,。
what I'd like you to do is to imagine with me.。
Maybe not imagine, but just think with me for a little bit。
about divisive groups that you know.。
Maybe they're in your workplace.。
Maybe there's two groups.。
Before I became a pastor,。
I was in marketing with Accenture.。
There was always the marketing and the finance,。
because marketing wanted to spend a lot of money,。
finance didn't, and that's kind of how that worked.。
Maybe groups in your workplace.。
Are there two groups there?。
Maybe they're groups among your student groups.。
Maybe they're groups in your family.。
Maybe they're groups in the church.。
And just think about that for a moment.。
Does everybody have something in mind?。
Yeah?。
This is kind of a hard sermon for a Saturday night, isn't it?。
I mean, it's like, wow, okay.。
I want you to have that in mind,。
because then I think we can apply the word of God to it,。
and we can apply the work of the priest.。
So then we have to ask ourselves,。
if we are God's fellow workers, what is the work we do?。
And the work we do is the work of the priest.。
We are called to be priests.。
Peter, one of the best friends of Jesus,。
said you are called, you are a royal priesthood,。
you are a holy priesthood.。
The reformers said the priesthood of all believers.。
You may have heard the priesthood。
of all believers quite a lot.。
You may have said that about yourself,。
but what is the work of the priest?。
And that's what we're gonna look at now.。
Pontifex is the Latin for priest.。
This is a Saturday night,。
so it's great to have Latin on a Saturday night, right?。
So my mom, in addition to being very hospitable,。
also loved Latin.。
Latin was one of her passions.。
There was really no problem that was too big。
that could not be solved with Latin in her mind, right?。
But pontifex means priest.。
That's what you are.。
If you say you're the priesthood of believers,。
you're a pontifex.。
And what is a pontifex?。
Ponte is bridge, fex is to make, facer, to make.。
It's basically that's what we are.。
That's your work.。
That's my work.。
Maybe a bad news is there's tribes out there.。
The good news is that we are a tribe of bridge builders.。
That's what we do.。
We come as priest and we begin to build bridges.。
We begin to look at what does it mean。
to build the bridges together.。
So think about bridges.。
What is a bridge, right?。
Think about Stonecutter Bridge or Singma Bridge.。
What does a bridge do?。
It connects.。
What does it connect?。
Yeah, it connects one thing to another, right?。
It's two points.。
Often one side of a river to another side of the river,。
one to whatever, a chasm.。
It's a bridge that brings things together.。
That's what a bridge does, right?。
Okay, you still have that image of that group in your mind。
that were apart?。
What does a bridge look like connecting those?。
Or let's be a little bit more specific.。
What do you look like as a bridge maker。
connecting those two?。
What would that look like to be a bridge builder。
in that area and to begin to build bridges,。
to connect people, to do the priestly work。
that Christ himself came to do?。
Jesus was the ultimate bridge builder, right?。
Because he connected us with the Father.。
He came into the gap and filled that gap vertically.。
And that's what we can do.。
As bridge builders, we can build vertical bridges。
to God for others and build them so strong and so safe。
that people can feel they can want。
to go into the arms of God.。
But we can also build horizontal bridges.。
And we can begin to build into these groups.。
So there's no longer groups, but they're connected.。
And the people are traveling back and forth on that groups.。
That is what you and I are called to do.。
This is what we do as a group.。
We are doing this work together.。
So this is the bridge builder.。
This is the work we do.。
But as we go on, I wanna talk to you a little bit。
about a bridge building that we've been a part of, okay?。
Because this is a picture.。
See if I can get out of the way here.。
It's actually quite big here.。
But you can see this picture.。
This is a Lead for Life program.。
This is what we work on at Faith and Global Engagement.。
It's an area that I work in.。
It's a character leadership program.。
We have 200, basically 249 students in this cohort,。
and we have about 180 in the first one.。
So over 400 students involved in two cohorts.。
We also have 84 mentors.。
This happened last Sunday night.。
So this just happened as we launched this off.。
Now, the reason I wanted to show you this。
is there's a traditional conflict。
or a grouping called town gown.。
You heard of that?。
Right, just town gown.。
So right from the beginning,。
Oxford starting up in the universities,。
there was always tension where there was a university。
and there was a town.。
So much so that historians called it。
the town gown conflict, right?。
We've experienced that here in Hong Kong。
at different times, right?。
Conflict sometimes between what's going on。
in the universities and what's going on in the town.。
Groups.。
And so one of the things we wanted to do。
at Lead for Life and its character leadership。
is to say, let's bring both together.。
The gowns are pretty obvious here, right?。
These are our students,。
and the students come from every faculty。
in University of Hong Kong.。
But the 84 mentors are leaders in all different categories,。
all different sectors in Hong Kong,。
and they volunteer to come in。
and to come alongside our students for one year.。
And then the mentors get,。
and then the students stay together for another year,。
and they get another two set of mentors.。
The student group will stay together all four years.。
It's just our kind of little way。
of trying to bridge a gap.。
This is the mentor group,。
and you can barely see our mentor right here, right?。
You can just barely see the top of his head,。
but this is the group.。
The group is called Curiosity.。
This is the mentee group.。
And I love it how you can barely see the mentor。
because that's the purpose, right?。
The purpose is that we see the students.。
This is something that I wanted to give you。
as just a small example of pontifex,。
of bridge building, of trying to do what we can.。
So what does yours look like?。
What does yours look like as you begin to think。
about how I would build that bridge。
between these two groups,。
and what would be some steps we could take,。
and who you're going to do it with, right?。
Because this is not done by one person.。
This is done by a team.。
And when you build bridges,。
you work together to build those teams.。
Now, when we do this, we're coming on to the third word.。
Okay, but before I go on, is this making sense, right?。
Or is this following?。
So, okay, we've got groups, right?。
And then we need to bring those groups together。
because that's who we are.。
We're the priesthood of believers.。
That's our job.。
It's a family business, really.。
The father was a bridge builder, right?。
And he gave to the son to be the bridge builder。
in terms of Jesus Christ,。
and has been passed on generation,。
and generation, and generation.。
And now this whole room,。
we're filled with bridge builders, right?。
And so, what does it mean to do that?。
Now, before we go on,。
I'm just gonna give you this example。
to maybe kind of help us kind of see。
where we are in reflecting.。
Because what we're doing right now。
is we're doing the tough work。
of we're addressing potential issues or real issues。
in our work, in our families,。
maybe in our churches and in our friend group, right?。
But we're reflecting on it.。
Now, at the Lead for Life group,。
we've got this amazing head of research.。
He's also the project manager。
for Faith and Global Engagement, Hua Lun.。
And he does the reflection of how to reflect.。
And this is a good model.。
If you're thinking about。
how I wanna reflect on a scripture passage,。
how I wanna reflect on a problem,。
how I wanna reflect on really anything,。
this is kind of an iceberg metaphor to do that, right?。
So the very top of this is a hmm.。
And when Hua Lun teaches us this,。
he basically has us all do it together, right?。
So he says, first of all, we go hmm,。
that's interesting, right?。
That's what the hmm means.。
That means you come across something。
and you think hmm, that's interesting.。
Hmm, that's interesting that humans。
seem to have an instinct for tribalism.。
Hmm, that's interesting, right?。
But we don't stop there, right?。
Because we've gotta go a little bit further down.。
And then we go to the ah.。
You guys are really good.。
I'm gonna bring you over to the campus。
and have you guys do this.。
So we go to the ah.。
And ah means ah, that's useful.。
Bridge building, I'm a bridge builder.。
That's useful, I can build bridges.。
That's useful, ah.。
That's where we are right now in this sermon,。
just so we're tracking in.。
But you can see that we've really。
only stayed at the surface level.。
And now we need to go down to this big part.。
Now don't get scared.。
It's not like the rest of the sermon is much bigger.。
But now we need to go deeper.。
Now we go to the ah-ha.。
Right, and you know that?。
You know that's an ah-ha moment, right?。
So we go from the hmm to the ah-ha.。
Means this is relevant for me.。
Means there's something in here for me.。
This is interesting, it's useful, but it's for me.。
That's why it's the heart.。
So you guys ready to go a little deeper?。
Okay, so we're gonna go a little bit deeper。
because now we're actually looking at really what matters.。
Jesus said out of the heart flows what a person is, right?。
The mouth speaks overflow of what is out of the heart.。
Jesus was always looking at the heart.。
When the groups, and he dealt with groups。
from the Pharisees to the Sadducees to the Essenes,。
and when he dealt with those groups,。
he said, it was often said, he knew their heart, right?。
So that's where we're going.。
We're going down to the heart.。
And this is what Paul says.。
He's just finished talking about himself as a leader,。
and he's saying, don't follow me, follow Jesus Christ,。
because then he says, what after all is Apollos,。
and what is Paul?。
We're only servants.。
Okay, now we're getting down to the identity of who we are.。
Now we're getting down to, do we have the heart of a servant?。
Do we want to build that bridge?。
Do we want to make that connection?。
Are we willing to serve?。
And then when we look at the heart of the servant,。
we begin to ask a question,。
what is the heart of a servant, right?。
So again, it's a problem.。
So every good problem can be solved with Latin.。
So now we're back to this, and I promise,。
this is the last Latin in the whole,。
but humility is the characteristic。
of a heart of a servant.。
But what is humility?。
It comes from this humilis, it comes from the ground,。
it comes from dirt, really.。
Not that we are treated ourselves like dirt,。
but we are grounded.。
We are so grounded, we are not swayed by every wind。
of what people think about us,。
because we know who we are.。
We take in the tradition our rightful space.。
We don't take more, or that would be arrogance.。
We don't take less, or that would be not grateful to God.。
But we are grounded as servants.。
We have this humus, we have this groundedness to us.。
But then there's something else, because there's a core.。
That's the heart, that's the Latin for heart.。
So we have a humble heart, but the heart itself。
is where we get the word courage.。
So what's in your heart as a bridge builder?。
And do we have that humility, and do we have that courage?。
Because we need both if we're gonna be bridge builders,。
because we need the humility to recognize。
there is a problem, and we also need to have the humility。
to recognize that I may be part of that problem.。
But then we need the courage to act.。
It's wisdom is applied knowledge.。
We can know it and not do anything,。
but we need that courage, right?。
So that courage to act.。
So I'll give you an example.。
Recently, I was convicted by God, by the Holy Spirit,。
and it's been going on for some time,。
but I recently acted on it,。
of a bridge that I needed to build.。
A bridge that had been severed.。
A group that I needed to reach out and build a bridge.。
And by the grace of God, through the humility。
that is a grace, then I could recognize。
that I need to do something, and I am part of it.。
Now, you have to have the courage, right?。
Because you can know that, but you've gotta get on the MTR。
and go to that person, or to that whatever, right?。
You've gotta do it.。
And so recently I did.。
Felt it, got on the MTR, went to the place。
where we were going to meet,。
walked around several times before I went into the place,。
get a little bit of courage, and went in.。
What about you?。
In your humility, and by the grace of God,。
when you thought of those two groups,。
what's your part in it?。
You might really not be a part at all.。
That might be one of the giftings, is to come together,。
but it might be that you have a part.。
But what's the part of humility that you then act on,。
encourage, and to step out?。
That becomes, then, the heart.。
Now we're way below the surface, right?。
And now we're really looking at individually who we are.。
And when we do that, I wanna say something very clearly.。
Don't go into the bridge-building business.。
Don't go into the bridge-building work。
without building that foundation on Jesus Christ.。
And this is how Paul finishes this part of the text.。
"For no one can lay any foundation。
"other than the one already laid, which is Jesus Christ."。
Jesus knows about those groups。
that you were picturing in your mind,。
and his heart most likely is broken, as maybe yours is.。
But he's also laying a foundation.。
Did you know that bridges have foundations?。
Yeah, you're kinda nodding like,。
"That's very obvious, Steve, yes." (laughs)。
It wasn't obvious for me so much,。
'cause Paul here is talking about foundations。
in terms of a building, right?。
And we all think of that, but bridges have foundations too.。
In fact, when the architect and the engineer work together,。
then there's at least seven different types of foundations。
they could put into that bridge,。
depending on the terrain of what they need to do,。
and there's probably more.。
Priestly perspective, not an engineering perspective。
or an architecture perspective,。
but from a priestly perspective,。
there's only one foundation that we build on,。
and that is Jesus Christ.。
There is only one bridge builder that we follow,。
the one who came down and, as I said before,。
made that vertical bridge that any one of us tonight,。
if there is a broken bridge between you and God,。
or if there never really has been a direct connection,。
then Jesus says, "I'm here."。
And he also yearns for your neighbor,。
because Jesus didn't say, "Love the Lord your God。
"with all your heart, soul, mind, and body, full stop."。
He said, "Love the Lord your God。
"with your heart, soul, mind, and body,。
"and love your neighbor as yourself."。
This is the great commandment, singular.。
So the bridges, again, go vertically and horizontally,。
and that's the cross.。
And so look for the cross in 1 Corinthians.。
You'll find the cross coming up,。
Paul mentioning it again and again.。
That's the bridge building.。
That's what brings us all together.。
For no one can lay any foundation。
other than that of Jesus Christ, amen?。
Are we still on?。
Yeah, okay, so we're gonna close here.。
I thought maybe the sound booth was telling me,。
"Okay, it's time, we're cutting you."。
(audience laughing)。
You're done, so.。
We wanna close with a song, and we want,。
I'm not gonna sing, but we wanna close with a song,。
and we wanna close with a prayer.。
But before we do that, I think,。
do we have a few minutes, Michelle?。
Okay, any thoughts, questions?。
Is that ringing true?。
Is that resonating, maybe, with where we are?。
You're being very polite, that's good.。
Okay, good, no, no, no,。
but is there any questions in that?。
Any things when you're thinking about that,。
you think, "How does that actually work?"。
You ready to do some bridge building?。
Feel a little bit scared?。
It's okay, you know, courage,。
the definition of courage is overcoming fear.。
If you don't have fear, you don't have courage.。
If you're in a perfect world, you don't need courage.。
You only need courage when there's something to overcome.。
So it's okay to feel that fear, but we have that courage.。
Okay, so let's do this.。
Rather than talk to me, let's talk to God.。
That'll probably be much more useful.。
So we're gonna do this.。
We're gonna have a song that we're gonna close in,。
but before we go into the song, I wanna give us a prayer.。
It's a very simple prayer.。
And it's a prayer, whoops.。
It's a prayer about humility.。
It's about a servant's heart.。
And it's a prayer a mentor taught me many years ago.。
And it's a very simple prayer.。
You can say it in less than a second.。
And so I wanna offer that prayer to you。
because I feel like that in this prayer,。
it's something for some of us.。
May not be for all of us,。
but there's something for some of us.。
But the song I also want us to be thinking about.。
So as the band is playing,。
then the song we're gonna sing is Christ is enough, right?。
Is he?。
You know?。
Yes, he is.。
But we need to confirm that and affirm that.。
So when we're hearing that song,。
it is Christ is enough.。
His foundation is enough for the bridge。
you're going to build or are building.。
Many of you are already way ahead of me。
in building those bridges.。
But there's something else.。
You know, right in the middle, there's that beautiful part,。
I have decided to follow Jesus.。
Okay, that's Paul's answer to, I'm not following Apollos.。
I'm not following Cephas.。
I'm not following Paul even.。
We're following Jesus Christ.。
Okay, so here's the prayer.。
The prayer is this.。
Lord, bring me someone to serve today.。
Yeah, it's pretty simple, right?。
I have a little bit of fear and trembling。
every time I'm going to pray this prayer.。
There are people who won't pray this prayer.。
They don't believe that God answers prayer,。
but they're not gonna pray this prayer。
because they know he'll answer this, right?。
(audience laughing)。
And he does.。
And sometimes in beautiful ways, simple ways.。
If you're like me, you know, my day is kind of full, right?。
And so then you're thinking, if I pray that,。
what's gonna happen?。
And am I gonna, you know, and we imagine worst case scenarios。
and we're cleaning, you know.。
But our God is a gracious God.。
His grace is sufficient for you.。
So one of the first times I got back。
to praying this recently, I was just walking down。
by the Hotel Gen in that area.。
And there was a domestic worker。
who was looking for a Hotel Gen。
because they wanted to take something。
who was for a person there in quarantine.。
And this person was going up to everybody。
and everybody was saying, I don't know where it is.。
But I did know because we had,。
when our daughter had stayed in Hotel Gen。
and it was right there.。
And so she came over and I said, yeah, that's where it is.。
And she was very gracious and she went on.。
I feel like that was my service that day。
'cause I just prayed the prayer about 10 minutes before.。
It might be as simple as that.。
There are other times when I prayed that prayer。
which begins a much deeper journey.。
But let's do this.。
Let's pray the prayer and pray it together.。
So let's do that right now.。
So yeah, you may wanna just bow your head。
or close your eyes, give your neighbor a little bit of space.。
We'll pray a little bit.。
And I'd like to pray for you and over you.。
And as we're sitting here in silence,。
I thank you that you are here.。
None of us is here without a purpose.。
That God had a plan for us being here。
and he had a word for us.。
And we don't wanna miss that.。
So in our silence, we wanna say,。
God, if there's anything that you wanted me to hear,。
let me hear that.。
Or maybe you already know what it was。
and just go there in your conversation.。
And I pray that if there's anyone here。
who feels severed from God,。
who feels like the bridge has fallen down,。
who feels like they never really had a bridge,。
who feels somehow they're just distant from God.。
Michelle preached beautifully last week about directional.。
It's not how far or how close you are to God,。
it's which direction you're going.。
And you can turn and just start going back。
and you can pray to the bridge builder,。
Jesus Christ, connect me to God.。
And there are many here。
that did have a pretty clear image。
of the groups that they would love to bring together.。
And so pray for that, pray for them.。
Pray that you can be part of the bridge building exercise.。
And then through the power of the Holy Spirit,。
let the Holy Spirit pray this prayer through you.。
Lord, bring me someone to serve today, even today.。
And then pray it tomorrow.。
And then pray it tomorrow and the next day.。
It's a bridge builder's prayer.。
Lord, hear our prayer.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
