Recently I listened to a TED talk, it was called "Everything we know about addiction。
is wrong". I don't know if you've ever watched it. It's got about 10 million views。
on YouTube and it's a great TED talk, I do encourage you to go and watch it. But there's。
one bit that really caught my eye, this guy was talking about how he grew up in a family。
of addicts and he realised that we've been dealing with addiction wrong. He talks about。
this professor who was studying addiction, who did this experiment several decades ago。
now where he put two rats in a cage and gave them two drinks bottles, one with water and。
one with water laced with heroin, to experiment what the responses would be, whether actually。
drug addiction is really down to chemical hooks onto us. So what happens to this rat?。
Very quickly it finds out that one bottle tastes better than the other, makes it feel。
better than the other and very quickly that rat passes away. Then he tries again and the。
same thing happens again. But then he was like "Oh, but maybe this experiment isn't。
truly fair because the rat only is in an empty cage with just two bottles, what else is he。
going to do?" So then he creates another cage, a bigger one, but this time he calls。
it rat park and it's bigger and there's cheese and there's snacks and there's。
swings and most importantly there were other rats there as well. And do you know what he。
found happened? The rats would go to take this other bottle of water but only every。
now and again. What was before, which was 100% overdose rate and death rate, ended up。
being 0% overdose. 0% overdose. They would go every now and again, some for a little。
bit, some would completely ignore it, but this problem was completely removed. And his。
point was that actually the solution to addiction is not sobriety, it's not being cold turkey,。
it's connection. And then he goes on to talk, he says "All of us, rats or humans,。
animals, created beings, I think Anthony just shared this in the Mighty Oaks Foundation,。
all of us are built for relationship, it's not just elderly people. We all have this。
inbuilt thing from the moment that we are born for communion, to be connected with one。
another. We all have it, whether you're an introvert or extrovert, you have it. You。
have this deep, deep, deep desire to be in bond, in a bond, in a relationship with someone.。
And this whole issue of addiction really made me think about Hong Kong. Hong Kong has tons。
of problems. We have problems with the high cost of living, we have problems with the。
small space of living, we have the problems of the political tension, we have the problems。
of the pandemic anxiety. But the biggest, biggest problem of all is this lack of connection.。
Why do we have those issues with money, sex and power? Because there's a deep need for。
connection that isn't being filled. And when you don't have that deep need for connection。
satisfied, you will find anything that you can to give you relief, just like that rat。
in the empty cage did. But when you have connection, that's when your problems go away. And then。
it made me think, okay, so what about the church? How do we respond to this issue of。
disconnection? How good are we at being in communion? And I'll tell you, I don't know。
if the church has passed COVID with flying colours at all. I don't know if we've passed.。
Because we've struggled with connection, right? We have struggled in staying together. I can't。
tell you how many times I've heard people now, I'm preaching to the choir here, everyone's。
here, people on YouTube, I love you, I hope that you are doing well. I'm sure there's。
a reason why you're not able to join us now, but I pray that as soon as you are able to。
come back, please come back and join us. Because we have this thing now where it's like, oh,。
I can get my Saturday night back, I can get my Sunday morning back, I can just go on YouTube,。
I can just watch the sermon online, and it's good enough. And I'll tell you, I'll be frank,。
when someone tells me that, I'll be frank, I'm not good enough for you to be tuning in。
on YouTube, you might as well go and tune in on Netflix instead. And it's funny, one。
of the famous speakers in the world, Timothy Keller, his mentor is a minister from England。
called Martin Lloyd-Jones. And he ministered at a time where they were starting to get。
technology, they were starting to record sermons. And he was a very kind of like confident man。
in an age that I think it would have been very interesting to watch him live in this。
era. And he said, "Why would anyone want to hear the Word of God on their own? Why would。
anyone want to have the Word of God open to them away from the body? Because if you do。
it on your own, that's just information intake. But when you do it together, that's a communal。
experience. That's when you get to live it out." And I think this is where we really。
struggle as a church, because we don't do that. We've started to think that we can do。
church on our own. We started to think that church is a building that we go to, and that。
we can just tune in online to different things. But the problem is that's not enough, because。
your deep, deep need for communion, for connection still exists, right? We live in the most connected。
age in the history of mankind, yet we are also the loneliest era generation in mankind.。
Why is that? And what is the church not doing? Or really, rather, what should the church。
be doing? And here's my thing. If you want to live a godly life, you can't do it on your。
own. That's it. If you want to take something away from this sermon tonight, if you want。
to live a godly life, if you want to be a godly person, you cannot do it on your own.。
That is not how it works. God puts that in the commandment, "You must love me and love。
people. It is buy one, get one, throw it free." And you have to have it. You can't keep that。
on away. It has to come together. And so today we're talking about this issue, this topic。
of communion, and we look at the Passo di Gennac and the people are devoted to fellowship.。
The word there is "cannonia." Yeah, we can go, "Cannonia" there. I can do it from here,。
I think. There we go. The word is "cannonia," fellowship. This isn't club. This isn't the。
Aberdeen Marina Club. This isn't any kind of society that you're joining. When it's。
talking about fellowship, it's talking about deep partnership, it's talking about sharing,。
it's talking about having this profound regard for one another. And John's talked about this。
where when they got together, they were as one. They weren't just in the same room. They。
had the same spirit. They had the same heart. And then Paul in the Bible talks about, in。
1 Corinthians 12, in Ephesians 4, talking about us being a body. That we are hands,。
we are feet, we are arms. We are stuck together. How weird would it be if you walked on the。
sidewalk over there and then you saw just one arm just lying around, flailing around?。
It would look weird. It would look a little bit odd. And then because it's Hong Kong,。
you just carry on walking. But that's not what we were created for. We're supposed to。
be together. And I think you know that. The question is, why don't we do it? And the question。
is, when we do get together, what should we do? This evening, well done to all of you.。
You have ticked off your box, off your checklist for this week, been to church. But is that。
it? Why did God tell us to gather? Why did God tell us to be in this place together as。
one? What was the purpose of it? And there's really two passages of scripture that I've。
heard and it has always been on my mind when it comes to this topic of community, coming。
to this topic of going to church, gathering together. And the first one, or the main one。
is the one that we've been focusing on these last few weeks. And we'll go back to that。
at the end. But the main one, the other one that I hear about a lot that I see is from。
Hebrews. And it's this, Hebrews chapter 10, verse 24 to 25. "And let us consider how to。
stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as is the。
habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing。
near." So when you ask, why do I bother going to church? Mom, why do you tell me that I。
have to go to church? Is it really just to sit there to just listen to some guy talk。
for anywhere between 20 minutes to an hour? You're like, what, an hour? John shared this。
article with a couple of his staff a couple of months ago and he says, people go to church。
for different reasons. Some go for the preaching, some go for the worship, some go for the food,。
some go for the ladies, some go for all these different reasons. But why do they stay at。
church? Friends. That's why they stay. However good your preaching is, it won't keep people。
unless they are in community, unless they are in connection with one another. So that's。
the reason why we stay in church. What do we do in church? This is the question you。
should ask. Now that you've stepped through the doors to be here, the question you should。
ask is, when you leave here, you should ask, was I the church? Did I do what I was supposed。
to do when I was coming here? What is the purpose of this gathering? And this is what。
I think it is. Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works. To。
come to church is not just to hear the word, but that's very, very important. It's not。
just to worship God, because that's very important. It's not just to pray to God together, because。
that's also very important, but it's to stir each other up in love and good works. It's。
to consider how to do that. Now, before we even go into what love and good works are,。
let's start with the word consider. When we gather together, what we're supposed to do。
is we're supposed to look to the person, to the left and to the right of us, and consider。
and think about how we can encourage that person. Now, before you can even consider。
how to do it, you need to know that person. You need to know what gets them going. You。
need to know what they need. You need to know how they can be encouraged. And this is the。
really, the point that I first want to make is, if we really are the church, we must know。
each other. And there's only really one way to know each other, to talk to each other,。
to ask each other questions. I've been in Hong Kong for three and a half years, and。
in the roles that I have, I get to meet so many people around the city, it gets my head。
spinning. But you know what I've found in these last few years, which is completely。
different from the life that I grew up in in England, where there's just not that many。
people to get to know, is that people in Hong Kong, I feel, I fear, have more acquaintances。
than they do friends. Now, they may say, "Oh, he's my friend, he's my friend, he's my Facebook。
friend, someone here, someone like here has 5,000 Facebook friends." But I think we have。
more acquaintances than friends. Because as I intentionally spend more time with these。
people, with people that I've been introduced to by other friends, I feel like, "Oh, actually,。
you guys don't even know each other that well. You've known each other for 20 years, and。
yet you've actually never asked each other about anything." That's of real importance.。
So that's my first question to you. If we were to balance your acquaintances and your。
friends, where are you at? The famous theologian Vin Diesel said, "I don't got friends, I got。
family." Do you have more acquaintances, or do you have more friends? Do you have people。
who truly know you, and do you really know them? Because this is another thing, you don't。
really know yourself apart from without other people around. In fact, it's other people。
being next to you that helps you learn a bit about yourself. And when you meet someone。
else, you actually get to know a little bit more about them. I thank the Lord for Sandra.。
Because if I didn't get to meet Sandra, and it was only John that I knew, only John that。
I met, I would be terrified and I would be very concerned. But once I met Sandra, I was。
like, "Ah, this makes sense. That's how this works." When you meet someone else, let's。
say you know this friend, let's say I know John, it's only when I meet his wife or his。
children or his grandchildren, then I start to see other aspects of him that I would have。
never been able to know. Tim Keller talks about this, and he's quoting another mentor。
of his, who's C.S. Lewis, and he writes, and I wanted to share this quote with you because。
I think it's great. C.S. Lewis argues that it takes a community of people to get to know。
an individual person. Reflecting on his own friendships, he observed that some aspects。
of one of his friends' personality were brought out only through interaction with a second。
friend. That meant if he lost the second friend, he lost the part of his first friend that。
was otherwise invisible. By myself, I'm not large enough to call the whole man into activity.。
I want other lights than my own to show all his facets. If it takes a community to know。
an ordinary human being, how much more necessary would it be to get to know Jesus alongside。
others? By praying with friends, you will be able to hear and see facets of Jesus that。
you have not yet perceived. You can't love God properly if you don't love people. You。
can't know God properly unless you have other people around you. You don't know me at all,。
almost, just by listening to me preach every now and again. But when you spend time with。
me, when you spend time with Christina, then you'll be like, "Oh, now that makes sense。
as well." When you meet my mum, then you'll be like, "Oh, so that's where he gets outside。
from." When you meet my brother, you'll be like, "Now I know why James is so strong.。
He's been carrying his brother all his life." And you realise it's only when you meet the。
other people that you're like, "Ah, I get to see a part of you that I've never seen。
before." Isn't that beautiful? Isn't that what we're supposed to do? As a community,。
that is what we're supposed to do. So my question for us is this, do we know each other? Now,。
we had the pleasure two weeks ago where we went to eat together, and those who eat together。
stay together. And we were so pleasantly surprised, and our hearts were so warm when we saw 60,。
70 people all gathering to eat together. So beautiful, that's so good. But the question。
now is this, if you have more acquaintances than friends, then why? What do you spend。
your time talking about? How intentional are you in asking the other person about something?。
Now, here's the thing, you can ask someone, I mean, we all do. What do we ask? How are。
things going? They're going, "Great, the market's up and good, right? And family's。
just a bit rough." "Oh, cool, did you watch the tennis?" Whereas at that point, what。
you should do, "Oh, why is family rough?" Do we ask that? But we don't, right? We're。
like, "Oh, I think we're in a place where we shouldn't really ask about that." I think。
he seemed to allude to it. But you see, the thing is, if we are truly... Now, with people。
who are genuinely acquaintances, maybe there is a bit of need to be just a bit further。
back, but when we're in the church, when your brother in Christ, when your sister in Christ。
tells you, "Now, things have not been good at home," the worst thing we can say is, "Oh,。
sorry to hear, I'll pray for you. Okay, see you next week. Peace. Take it easy." How intentional。
are we with asking people questions? And here's the problem, when you get to know people,。
people are so annoying. People are so irritating, and we are one of them, right? But yet, that。
doesn't mean we don't do it. Which brings me to the second point. Let us consider, let。
us know these other people, and to stir them up. The word "stir" there actually means almost。
to irritate, but not in the negative sense. It means to kind of like, to sharpen them,。
to rub up against them in the wrong way, just to kind of like push them into something else,。
to stir them up. But we rarely stir up. We do a lot of stirring, but we rarely stir up.。
And that's the problem. And so my challenge to us is, if we only have more acquaintances。
than friends, how can we turn them from being acquaintances to being friends? And if we。
are part of the same church, how do we go from being friends to being family? How do。
we do that? I think there are people in your life that you are dodging the question, dodging。
the conversation with. I think there are people where you are like, "Oh, you know what? I。
just can't be bothered." But here's the thing. The only way you can love God more is by loving。
that person. There's no way really getting out of it.。
And so I want to ask you this. Who are your people? And there's loads of different ways。
to describe this, but I just want to use a very simple way. I just want to go with three.。
And for those of you who have been in the church, you'll know this, and I'll explain。
a little bit. Who's your Paul, who's your Timothy, and who's your Barnabas? Who's your。
Paul, Timothy, and Barnabas? I'll tell you a little bit more about them. And there's。
so many more different iterations of this. But first of all, who's your Paul? Who's the。
person who's pouring into you? Who's mentoring you? Young people who need mentoring. That。
mentor will not show up at your door on a day when you're free and go, "Hey, I hear。
you've been needing a mentor. Can I pour into your life?" Young people, that does not happen.。
Old people, that does not happen. You need to go and find that person. It's down to you。
to go and find that person. "Hey, you've got so much wisdom. You've got so much experience.。
I love the way you deal with your family. Can I spend some time with your family? Can。
I come and hang out? Can I come and have dinner? Can I come to your house and can I cook for。
you? Because I want to spend some time with you. I'm looking for a Paul."。
Second is you have your Timothy. Older people. You're not going to get a young person coming。
up to you and go, "Hey, you have so much wisdom. You have so much life experience. Can you。
teach me your ways?" That doesn't happen either. It needs you to go out of your way, to leave。
your house, to leave your sofa, and go to these young people and go, "How are you doing?"。
Requiring patience. Patience isn't needed just for the elderly. It's for all of us,。
right?。
Find your Timothy. So one, find your Paul. Two, find your Timothy. Who's that other person?。
Who's Barnabas, who doesn't get that much credit but actually is one of John's favourite。
characters in the Bible? Who's your friend? You can use Barnabas, you can use Jonathan.。
Who's your friend? Who's the one who's going to encourage you? Who's the one who's going。
to stir you? Who's the one who knows how to push your buttons? Maybe it's not a friend.。
Maybe it's not Barnabas. Maybe it's Mary to your Martha. Who's that annoying sibling who。
seems to just get the heart right? Whereas you're busy cooking dinner and sorting stuff。
out but she has the heart right and she's going to show you how to model it. Who's that。
person who's going to help you? Who's your Paul? Who's your Timothy? Who's your Barnabas?。
I think we have to have those three people, at least. We have to. In order for us to grow。
in our love for God and our love for people, we have to have those three people, at least.。
Think about it. How are you connected? How intentional are you?。
And then the second part of this is this. Not neglecting to meet together as is the。
habit of some. What does this tell me? Corporate gathering, corporate worship is not optional.。
It's necessary. It's essential. And this isn't just watching a sermon on YouTube because。
you're not doing it with people around you. It has to be together. You have to gather。
together. And this is very hard because in Hong Kong we are so busy. We are so, so busy。
with all these other things. And yet the question really is what is our priority? Do we make。
time for people? Do we make time to gather? Do you know why it's so important to not just。
worship and pray and read the Bible on your own? Do you know why it's so important to。
do it here with other people? Because when you do it here, there's less risk of it being。
about you. Because when you come into a big group, you're like, "Oh, it's not about me.。
We're all worshipping this God who's up there, who's bigger. Our God is so big, so strong。
and so mighty." Yet if you do it on your own, there's a tendency that we still need that。
very private part, that personal part of our faith. But actually it also needs to be public.。
It also needs to be with other people. And the word there for to meet together is this。
word that's very interesting. Those of you who study Greek will know this word, episunagoge.。
Episunagoge is a word, you may not know this word exactly, but you may recognize another。
word in it, synagogue, which is where the Jews would gather. And actually Paul is rather。
ambiguous with why he uses this word. Actually in the whole of the New Testament he only。
uses it twice. And there's probably different ways to look at this, but what I found was。
really interesting and what some scholars look at this and think is, you've got this。
need to meet, you've got this need to gather, and that's where your official assembly is,。
that's where your synagogue is. But the word epi, what does that mean? It means on the。
top of, it means over and above. And so what you have is this, when we're talking about。
church, when we're talking about meeting together, it's not just one thing that you turn up to,。
it's not just the 90 minutes that you're going to come to the service for. But it's something,。
it's over and above, it's more than that. It seeps into your everyday life. You see。
in the book of Acts, he talks about meeting in the temple, then he talks about going to。
each other's people's homes. He talks about all these other gatherings in between. So。
the question for us is this, how intentional are we with our gatherings? How intentional。
are we when meeting together, staying together, and getting involved in each other's lives?。
And the question isn't how are things, the question is how are you really? And so I think。
we have more acquaintances than friends. I also think we confuse proximity with community.。
And there's another quote that I really like is this, "Some people think they're in community,。
but they're only in proximity. True community requires commitment and openness. It is a。
willingness to extend yourself to encounter and know the other." How much do you rely。
on just the people around you, just proximity? "Oh, you and I are here, we're here together,。
this is the community." You can spend 10 years in the same community group and not know each。
other at all. So the question is, one, are we committed to meeting? Are we not giving。
up? Number two, when we're meeting, are we being intentional about it? Are we stirring。
each other up in love and good works? And then you may say, "But James, what about the。
online space? What about the metaverse? What about the meta church?" And I love social。
media. It helps us connect in ways that we've never done before. I get to FaceTime my mother,。
probably not as much as I really should, but I get to speak to her while she's on the other。
side of the world. I get to have all these friends, not quite 5,000, but I have Facebook。
friends, many of whom I actually don't recognise. So the question isn't actually the platform,。
because I think there is something good about this social media development that's happening.。
Zoom is a great thing. But the question still remains, how intentional are we with those。
sessions? To my shame, I was invited to a Zoom meeting, and I was like, "Oh, yeah, sure,。
I think I can make it," all in my mind, thinking, "Well, I'm going to make it, because I'm going。
to click on the Zoom link, switch off my video, mute myself, and then carry on doing my own。
thing." Right? Have we been there? Now, of course, there are probably meetings that maybe。
that's not so bad, but there's other meetings. Let's say if we are, "Oh, I only do church。
online." Yeah, well, sure, do church online. But the true measure of whether that really。
was church is did you stir each other up in loving good works? Did you encourage one another?。
The word "encourage" is parakaleo, which isn't just, "Oh, you're doing great, keep going,。
gayo, gayo." It's not just that. The word "encourage" there, the parakaleo means to。
exhort one another, to strengthen one another, to stimulate one another, to really push each。
other on. Why? Because the day is drawing near. Let me go back to that verse here. Because。
the day is drawing near. Why were people giving up during this time? Because they thought。
Jesus was coming back, and they thought he was coming back again very soon. But then。
day went after day after day, they're like, "Oh, [foreign language 00:05:50] why is he。
not back yet?" And some started giving up. Some started to kind of receive persecution.。
They're like, "You know what? I'm just not going to do this anymore. Just be with this。
group. There's problems there." But Paul said, "Don't. This is the time for you to really。
hone in. This is the time for you to really stick together, especially when the day is。
drawing near, especially when the days are getting dark."。
Living life on your own is not easy. There's that old proverb that says, "If you want to。
go somewhere fast, go alone. But if you want to go somewhere far, go together." Where we're。
going could still be quite far away. And I'll tell you, it's not easy. And I've shared about。
my emotional trauma that I went through through this fifth wave. How I got out of that in。
the way that I did? People. Not just people in proximity, not just acquaintances. I'll。
tell you, you can have so many friends on Facebook, but when you're in a time of need,。
how will they help you? Other than giving you a thumbs up. Other than giving you a like.。
Other than giving you the care emoji. The people who will help you are the ones who。
are right beside you. The people who will help you are the ones who ask you about you.。
The people that you ask about them. Because as the day draws near, we need that kind of。
encouragement. We need that kind of encouragement with people. Who are your people? And we finish。
here with this passage back in Acts again. Because maybe the passage in Hebrews tells。
us, maybe a bit of a prescription. It's telling us what to do when we meet. This one tells。
us, maybe a description of what was happening then. It's also telling us how they met. And。
how did they meet? They were all together and they had all things in common. This term,。
all things in common, would have been a very famous, well-known Greek philosophy term.。
What did it mean? Friendship. It meant this profound regard for one another. It meant。
being as one to the point where they were joined together, both spiritually, physically。
and materially. So here's the thing though, in Hong Kong. Because there is such material。
wealth here. Because we are very much self-sufficient, the huge danger is that we stop relying on。
others. We start thinking that we can do it ourselves. We can do everything ourselves.。
Because I can afford everything I want to afford. So therefore I don't need anyone else.。
In fact you get so scared that other people will take what you have, so you distance them。
away. So self-sufficiency is the danger, is the enemy of community. Yet what we see here。
is that they were all together. They were selling their possessions, belongings and。
distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. Now before you get really scared and。
go, "I've got to sell everything?" Johnny's like, "I've got to sell my shoes? I've got。
to sell all of them?" That's not necessarily what it's talking about. What it's talking。
about is, because actually we know it's not everyone had to sell everything because a。
couple of chapters later you see Barnabas is highlighted as the one who sold his field.。
And then he voluntarily distributed all the profits to everyone who had need. So that。
wasn't a "everyone had to do this". But what it was, was that everything that you。
own can be made accessible and available to anyone who needed. That's what it was really。
talking about. When there's someone who is in need, then whatever you have you are able。
to share with them. You're able to allow them to use it as they had need. And so that was。
really what they were saying. And so day by day, attending the temple together, breaking。
bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts. You see。
the thing is this, when we realise that we need each other, that's when we start to promote。
these kingdom values. These kingdom values of sharing. The kingdom is much more about。
solidarity and mutuality than any kind of class system that we see here on earth. It's。
about God's grace isn't just for the rich and famous, it's for everyone. God's love。
is accessible to all in an unconditional kind of way. Do we live that out? Are we allowing。
ourselves to be in this place where we were together and had all things in common? And。
you're like, "How did they get there? How did they get there? And how do we get there?"。
And I want to quickly share three things how they got there. I want you to rewind. How。
did they get there? Well actually the three things is one, you need the Holy Spirit. Two,。
you need to be cut to the heart. And third, you need to be filled with awe and wonder.。
Those are the three things for us to get to a community like this. How does KFCI get there?。
These three things. First, Holy Spirit. We see Acts 2. We see Peter shares his message.。
And suddenly the Holy Spirit comes on them and that's when they're... And then what happens?。
Number two, they are cut to the heart. The Holy Spirit cuts them to the heart. They realise。
how much they need a saviour. They realise how much they need each other. They realise。
how much they love each other. And then what happens just before this? And they were filled。
with awe and wonder. When your eyes are fixed on something else, when you are cut to the。
heart, when you have the Holy Spirit within you, you're like, "Who needs something? I。
can help." But when we don't have the Holy Spirit, when we are not cut to the heart,。
when our hearts are hardened, when we are not filled with awe, when we're not worshipping。
God but worshipping ourselves, that's when we go very far from this. So the question。
for us is, now as a church, I've asked you about your acquaintances and your friends.。
Next question is this, how much do you care and love God himself? How much do you yearn。
for him? Because the question here is, if we're to get to this place, if we're to be。
a community-based church, we need to have our eyes on God. We need to be chasing and。
loving God ourselves. That's the way we get this. C.S. Lewis again says this, "Friendship。
is born at the moment when one man says to another, 'What? You too? I thought I was the。
only one.'" That's what we should be like. As we gather here and we're trying to build。
friendship, it should be like, "I'm worshipping God. I love God so much. You too? That's awesome.。
Let's love God together." That's what it should be. And here's the other problem with a lot。
of our churches, a lot of us in Hong Kong, we struggle with community. We turn up to。
church after church, we sit in these services, we stay for the 90 minutes, and then we leave。
and then we're like, "I couldn't find community in that church. I couldn't find community。
in this church." You see, the thing is, when we gather, the point isn't to find a place。
where there will be a community that fits around you. When we gather, it's to worship。
God, it's to be cut to the heart, it's to be filled with awe and wonder, and then pray。
that we look to the side of us and go, "What? You too? This is awesome." That's what community。
is. Us being so focused on God, that being the one thing that we're asking for, Psalm。
27, that being the one thirst that we have. You know, our good friend Francis who preached。
here last year, he once shared this with me, he said, "Never has a spirit-filled marriage。
ever ended in divorce." Never has a spirit-filled marriage ended in divorce. Why? Because when。
your marriage, when each person is filled with the Spirit, they can't help but just。
be pursuing and worshipping God, and it's the Spirit that will keep them as one. The。
Spirit that will cut them to the heart is the Spirit who will leave them in awe and。
wonder, and because of that, husband and wife will be as close as ever. I think that same。
principle can be applied to church, can be applied to our church here. If all of our。
members are truly filled with the Spirit, cut to the heart, and filled with awe and。
wonder, then we won't divide. Then we will be as one. So the question is this, is this。
something that we want? Do we truly love God? Because that's how we'll get community. Because。
when you love God, you'll end up loving people. So here's the conclusion. If you're looking。
for God, you will find him amongst his people. If you're wanting to love God more, then you。
really should try to love people. If you're really struggling to love people, that highlights。
that you've still got some ways to go when it comes to loving God. And you'll say, "James,。
this is so hard. One, I don't have the time." To that, I'm just like, "Well, it's just a。
priority thing, isn't it? We all have the same amount of time." So have a think about。
that. How can I love people more? How can I do this more? "But I've been hurt so much。
in the past." I know. I was just talking to a friend the other day whose friends and family。
have just been completely turning against her. And to be fair, I don't think they know。
what they're doing. And she's been so hurt and she has every right to completely cut。
them out of their lives, her life. And all I could say was, "I know. I get it. I feel。
it. But I think we have precedence for this. I think we have a template to follow." The。
moment Jesus was on the cross and said, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do."。
The moment he was having his last supper with the guy that was just about to betray him。
and sell him for 30 silver coins. What does Jesus do? If I was there at that moment, I。
would not be doing the thing that Jesus does next with this guy, Judas. He takes off his。
robe, kneels down, and he washes this guy's feet without addressing anything, without。
any passive aggressive comment. So we have precedence for this, brothers and sisters,。
to bear with one another, as it says in Ephesians, to be reasonable because God is here. And。
we still have to seek out community. We still have to seek out people. Why? Because Jesus。
sought us out. Because Jesus went out of his way for us. So the next time we think, "Oh,。
do I really want to meet that person? Do I really want to go and talk to that person?。
Should I really start and open this kind of worms?" It will really expend time and energy。
that I don't have. It means I have to go out of my way. That's what the cross is for. To。
remind us that Jesus, who though was in the form of God, did not count equality with God。
a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, went out of his way, and came out of his way。
for you, and sought out communion for you, knowing that you need communion, knowing your。
deep need for connection, he came to you. And so therefore we must go to them.。
There's one final thing I wanted to highlight in this passage here. Why is community so。
important? Because of this last bit. Praising God and having favor with all the people,。
and the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. Community.。
A community-based church then fulfills the great commission. Because a kind, loving,。
hospitable community is what attracts people to the gospel. And isn't that what we should。
all be doing? You might be here saying, "Oh, go therefore and disciple all the nations。
and teach them what I've commanded. Oh, it's hard to do on my own." Well then Jesus is。
saying, "I don't need you to do it on your own. I need you to be in community. And when。
you have a community that is healthy, that loves me, that is filled with the Holy Spirit,。
that is cut to the heart, and that is filled with awe and wonder, I will add to your numbers。
day by day." And then this church will grow. Not because we want numbers to grow, but because。
that's what we want. There is news to share, and so therefore we must share it. So therefore。
we must be the kind of community that attracts people in. But what's the one thing they talk。
about when they say about the church? "You guys are just as bad as us. You guys are worse。
than us." But Jesus prays in John 17, "Be as one so that others will believe in me."。
Have good works so others will praise your Father in heaven. Being in community is so。
necessary, it's not optional, because it helps us fulfil the Great Commission. And you might。
say, "Well, what are we? I mean, we've got 70 people here, 80 people, sometimes 100.。
What can we do to save the world? The city is filled with darkness. Everything around。
us seems tasteless." Well, isn't that exactly what we've been placed here to do? In the。
midst of that darkness, be the light. In the midst of that tastelessness, be the salt.。
Isn't that what we're supposed to do? But we're only a small group. How can we do it?。
We don't have enough manpower to do this. It's not us that does it. And the Lord added。
to their number day by day, "Do not underestimate what we have here so long as we stay together."。
There's one final quote to leave you with. "Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful,。
committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has." "Never。
doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it。
is the only thing that ever has." Let's pray.。
Lord, forgive us when we fall short in being your body, when we're arguing, the eyes arguing。
with the foot, the hands arguing with the leg. And yet, you've hidden it in a clause。
in ways that only you know, in reasons only you know, where people will only believe in。
you when we are as one, when we are committed into being a community-based church, one that。
is filled with more friends and family than acquaintances, one that gathers not just because。
we're in proximity, but because we are bound together by what you did for us.。
And so I pray, earnestly, sincerely, as we turn our eyes to you and as we worship you,。
would you send us a Paul? Would you send us a Timothy? Would you send us a Barnabas? Would。
you send us people to love? Because we know that by loving people, we're able to love。
you more. We pray for those who feel isolated, disconnected, lonely. We yearn for connection。
for them. We yearn for communion and we thank you that by what you did, you reconciled us。
to the Father. And because of you, we are able to abide, be connected with you.。
The Lord let us not stop just there. As we learn what it means to abide in you, may we。
learn how to love others around us. So Holy Spirit, would you fill each heart in this。
room as we seek to be a community-based church. Would you cut us to the heart and show us。
how much we not only need you, but we need each other. And then would you fill us with。
awe and wonder of how great and majestic you are, how worthy of everything you are, and。
allow us to be together, to not give up in meeting, but to encourage one another, to。
stir each other up in love and good works. All because you first loved us. All because。
you sought us out first. So remind us next time to practically apply this message to。
that we would seek out community, that we would seek out God's people, that we would。
seek out our brothers and sisters. Because it's the only way to love you. In your name。
we pray. Amen.。
Bye.。
Amen.。
you。
