- Good evening, everyone.。
Let's just wave.。
Yeah, it's great to be here.。
Tonight we'll be continuing our series。
on women in the Old Testament.。
So we've looked through a few stories already。
on Eve and Rebecca,。
and last week we looked at Leah and Rachel,。
and today we're gonna be looking at the life of Miriam.。
Now, not a lot of women have been noted in the Bible.。
Now, there are even fewer that has prominent roles,。
and yet Miriam was noted to be the very first prophetess。
in the Bible.。
So there's a lot of things that we can learn about her,。
and today we'll be learning about how or what is it。
that it means to be faithful to God,。
and we're gonna learn actually both through her strengths。
as well as her weaknesses.。
So what is, I mean, who is Miriam anyway?。
Well, she is better known as the sister of Moses and Aaron。
who led the Israelites out from Egypt into the Promised Land.。
So her name really means beloved。
if it's with the sound in Egypt,。
or the star of the sea,。
or sea of bitterness in the word Hebrew.。
And so we're gonna see a little bit。
of all of those characteristics playing out tonight.。
And she came from a family of a priest,。
so she came from quite a godly family,。
or that's the context of it.。
So now the first appearance of her in the Bible。
is actually in Exodus, verse two, one to 10.。
Now, at that time, she was actually the unnamed sister,。
so she's not given a name at that time,。
but with the process of elimination,。
Moses only had one sister, so we know that it's Miriam.。
And so at that time, what happened。
was that the Israelites were oppressed。
and they were living in the land of Egypt,。
and they were living actually as slaves.。
And so because their population grew so much。
that Pharaoh wanted to limit their numbers.。
So what he planned, or what he said is that。
to have all of the baby boys put to death when they're born,。
and that's the command that he gave。
to the midwives of the Hebrews.。
But the Hebrew midwives feared the Lord,。
so then they did not listen to him。
and instead allowed the baby boys to continue on.。
So Pharaoh found out that his plan wasn't working out,。
so instead he said, "Let's get all of the baby boys。
"and throw them into the Nile River。
"to be killed and drowned."。
And so this is the time when Moses was born.。
And so when he was born, he was kept for three months,。
and eventually his mother could no longer keep him。
'cause he was probably quite big.。
And so he put him in a basket,。
and then he put it among the reeds in the Nile River.。
And so this is the first account,。
and let's just read it together.。
I'll read it to you.。
This is in Exodus chapter 2, 78.。
It says here, "Then his sister," which is Miriam,。
"asked Pharaoh's daughter,"。
because the slave of Pharaoh's daughter found this basket,。
and she said, Miriam asked her,。
"Shall I go and get one of the Hebrew women。
"to nurse the baby for you?"。
And she said, "Yes, go," she answered.。
"So the girl went and got the baby's mother.。
"Pharaoh's daughter said to her,。
"Take this baby and nurse him for me."。
And, "I will pay you."。
So the women took the baby and nursed him.。
When the child grew older,。
she took him to Pharaoh's daughter,。
and he became her son.。
She named him Moses, saying, "I drew him out of the water."。
Now, the very first thing that we can learn from Miriam。
is how do we be faithful?。
Well, seeing from her story is to be courageous。
for the people that you love.。
Well, it's actually extremely courageous。
for Miriam to be speaking to Pharaoh's daughter,。
because remember, she was just a Hebrew slave,。
and here it is, the Pharaoh's daughter,。
this official, this royalty.。
So what it meant was that if she had said anything。
that the princess did not like,。
then her life could be in danger.。
But instead, she was courageous enough。
to go in front of the princess and actually tell her。
that, "Do you want me to get a nurse for this baby?"。
Not only was she courageous, but also cunning.。
Now, this kind of courage is not like one。
where we'll eat a type of exotic food,。
like a fried insect, or not even going up to your crush。
and asking them out for a date kind of courage, right?。
'Cause those ones don't cause your life.。
But this kind is the one where you're going on a bungee jump。
and you're not quite sure the rope won't break,。
but if it does, you're gonna die.。
So this is the kind of courage that she had.。
And remember what her age was, most likely just above six,。
'cause I think anything younger,。
the princess probably wouldn't take her seriously,。
and probably somewhere less than 12 years old,。
otherwise she would already have been an adolescent.。
So imagine for that to happen.。
I mean, it's easy for us to think。
that a mother would protect a child,。
but this is actually quite the reverse.。
It was a child preserving the life of this baby。
and also for the family.。
And at first I thought, "Well, did she do it for herself?"。
Mostly, most likely not, because who wants a baby brother?。
The divided attention of the parent, right?。
Of course not.。
So she didn't do it for herself,。
but instead for the loved ones of her.。
And why is it that when we do that,。
we're actually faithful to God,。
when we're courageous for our loved ones?。
Because she had no idea that eventually Moses。
would be the leader of the Israelites.。
But when she was courageous for those ones that she loved,。
God actually used her and opened the doors.。
And so I wanted to ask you tonight as well.。
I mean, have you ever been courageous。
for someone that you love。
and am willing to lay down your life for him or her?。
Well, recently I've met with some distant relative.。
And how distant are they?。
Well, I only see them during funerals and weddings.。
So that's how distant.。
And so I actually was at a funeral。
of one of my relatives a few weeks ago.。
And when I went, I really had this thought,。
all right, this is the time。
when I'm gonna seize the opportunity,。
I'm gonna share the gospel with them.。
And so I was there and I was trying to find a way,。
but eventually I talked with my aunt and my cousin.。
But honestly, I have to confess,。
I did not have the courage to mention Jesus to them.。
And I felt really bad afterwards.。
I'm like, oh, when am I gonna get this chance?。
But the Lord had been good.。
And so He actually opened up an opportunity。
and someone from our relative said, what's your number?。
Let's create a WhatsApp group.。
I'm like, okay, this is good.。
So we created a WhatsApp group。
with like 20 of our relatives there.。
I'm like, all right, this is good,。
even though I was too chickened out.。
And then just last week,。
one of those aunts actually invited my mom to lunch.。
And I wanted to say it did not happen for the last 30 years。
'cause it's from my dad's side.。
So we haven't seen them for some time.。
And so my mom also told me, she's like,。
okay, I will go and spread the gospel.。
I'm like, all right, mom, you go, you go.。
Because I kind of messed up last time.。
So I said, I'll be praying for you.。
And then, so she went,。
and of course she was also very scared.。
And when you're scared, you sit through the entire dinner。
without mentioning what you wanted to say there, right?。
So eventually the people started getting up。
and they have to go, right?。
And that's when my mom mustered up the courage and said,。
you know, my daughter is speaking next week。
at the church on the Cantonese side。
'cause they only know Cantonese.。
And I said, well, would you guys like to listen。
to the sermon?。
And surprisingly, a few of them said, yeah, okay.。
But we thought to ourselves, well, just because they said,。
yes, we're not sure if they're gonna watch it.。
But after my mom sent it out,。
actually one of the relatives watched it.。
And then he encouraged everybody else to watch it,。
which is a lot nicer than us promoting ourselves, right?。
So, and what I wanted to say was, you know,。
we might not be like Miriam,。
where's life and death all the time.。
And thank God for that.。
But we're actually put in a position sometimes。
to be courageous for the ones we love.。
And that might mean just mustering up that bit of courage。
to speak to, actually, I don't know why,。
but it's hardest to speak to our relatives。
and our moms and dads.。
And, you know, maybe it's that,。
or to share it with our coworkers.。
Or sometimes it might mean for us。
to see someone being in an unjust situation。
and just being courageous and putting out our hands。
to help them,。
even though there might be oppositions happening.。
So today, you know,。
I really feel like God's asking us to be faithful servants.。
And that means for us to be courageous,。
to help those around us, to bring them to Christ.。
And a lot of time it just means doing that step.。
So very proud of you, mom, you know?。
And yeah, so the next thing that, you know,。
when Miriam appears again。
is actually at the crossing of the sea.。
And that is in Exodus chapter 15, 19 to 21.。
So this is a time when they have just crossed the Red Sea。
on dry land because God has split the sea。
and then they have crossed,。
but then the Egyptians that were chasing after them。
also went in and the water drowned them.。
And this is the moment when Miriam comes up again.。
And so let me read it to you.。
In Exodus chapter 15, 19 to 21.。
When Pharaoh's horses, chariots, and horsemen。
went into the sea,。
the Lord brought the waters of the sea back over them.。
But the Israelites walked through the sea on dry ground.。
Then Miriam the prophet,。
notice she's called the prophet here,。
Aaron's sister took a timbrel in her hand。
and all the women followed her with timbrels and dancing.。
Miriam sang to them and Pastor John asked me not to sing.。
So I will not sing this verse.。
Sing to the Lord for he is highly exalted,。
both horse and driver he has hurled into the sea.。
I still think it would have been better by saying it,。
but anyways.。
So the second point that we want to learn from Miriam。
about being faithful is to use our gifts.。
Now Miriam led all the women in songs.。
Now this is not just a few women, this is all.。
Do you know how many women were there?。
600,000 women.。
And they were praising the Lord together, singing this.。
And not only was she a leader, but she was also a musician.。
I mean, timbrels are probably a tambourine like instrument。
and imagine, I mean, just us having been here。
in front of maybe 100 people, it's hard enough,。
but 600,000 people.。
And actually for her, as a female,。
she actually played a very unique role as well.。
'Cause remember that time when the Pharaoh。
asked all the babies to be drowned?。
I mean, imagine the hurts in all of those mother's heart.。
And also if your neighbors, if their baby was killed。
and you saw that, that must have been so painful。
for all of the women to be watching.。
And so this, for Miriam to step up with her leadership skill。
with her worship skills and just bringing the women together。
and allowing them this opportunity to say,。
look at our God, He has vindicated us.。
Instead of having our babies drowned,。
now all of the Egyptians who came after us,。
they are drowning.。
So she really stepped up and used her gifts.。
And that's one of the ways that we can be faithful too.。
And I wanna read you from 1 Peter 4, chapter 4, 10 to 11.。
It says, "Each of you should use whatever gift。
"you have received to serve others."。
As faithful stewards of God's grace in its various forms.。
If anyone speaks, they should do so。
as one who speaks the very words of God.。
If anyone serves, they should do so。
with the strength God provides.。
And you see here, Miriam was doing exactly that.。
She was a faithful steward.。
She just stepped up and brought the ladies together。
to worship because that was her place。
and she seized the opportunity.。
And I just wanna say that I'm very encouraged here。
at our church all the time.。
I mean, last week, Christina came up。
and she was telling us about how she is starting。
to work with a lot of the babies。
and even the children's ministry.。
And that's really her gift.。
And we can see that it's her passion as well.。
And of course today, and every week we saw our worship team.。
There's Paul and Yen and there's Kelly and Florence。
and all of our musicians here.。
They're using the gifts and talents really to help us。
to serve the Lord, to lead us into praise and worship.。
And not to mention, at our sound booth,。
it's very dark at the back,。
but we have volunteers and interns。
and we've got Esther and Toby。
and then there's Fave and Sterling。
and they're faithfully serving with their gifts as well.。
And our greeters, Kathy and Vincent helps out all the time。
along with the other greeters.。
And it's just amazing to watch.。
And I can't even name all of us。
because there are so many of you guys doing that.。
And we also have our clan leaders as well.。
And I mean, the list can go on。
and then we'll stay here until 8 p.m.。
and then that will be an issue.。
And so, I mean, I'm sorry if I left out your name.。
I didn't mean to.。
It's just the list does get really long.。
But I just wanna say that it's so encouraging to watch。
because that's how we become the faithful stewards of God.。
And so today, I just wanna, once again,。
when we look at the story of Miriam。
and how she used her gifts.。
And why is it important?。
Because you are all very unique。
and you might be able to serve a group。
that someone else cannot.。
So if you don't step up,。
someone is actually suffering from that.。
So anyways, if you're one of those that says,。
"I have no gifts to share or use."。
You know what one of my gifts are?。
To identify other people's gifts.。
So if you have trouble finding that,。
let's come to one of us。
and we'll be very happy to help you identify what those are.。
So let us read on to see Miriam's life.。
So let's see.。
So she reappears again in the Bible in Numbers,。
the book of Numbers chapter 12.。
Now this time, it isn't as bright as the first two times.。
I will learn from her mistakes.。
So this account is where the Israelites have,。
so they've just crossed the Red Sea。
and now they're approaching the Promised Land.。
And this is what happens.。
I will read it to you again.。
It is Numbers chapter 12, starting in verse one.。
Miriam and Aaron began to talk against Moses。
because of his cushion wife,。
for he had Mary a cushion.。
"Has the Lord spoken only through Moses?" they ask.。
"Hasn't he also spoken through us?"。
And the Lord heard this.。
Now Moses was a very humble man,。
more humble than anyone else on the face of the earth.。
Now the Lord was angry about this。
and actually asked all three of them。
to come out to the tent of meeting.。
That's where they were.。
And he came down in a pillar of cloud, this is bad,。
and he stood at the entrance and summoned,。
Aaron, Miriam, come forward.。
Okay, this is, you know, when the Lord calls you。
and it's not good, then, you know, we better be awake.。
So this is what he said in verse six.。
"Listen to my words.。
"When there is a prophet among you,。
"I, the Lord, reveal myself to them in visions.。
"I speak to them in dreams,。
"but this is not true of my servant Moses.。
"He is faithful in all my house,。
"with him I speak face to face, clearly,。
"and not in riddles.。
"He sees the form of the Lord.。
"Why then were you not afraid。
"to speak against my servant Moses?。
"The anger of the Lord burned against them,。
"and he left them."。
Now Miriam's skin right afterwards was leprous.。
It was white as snow,。
and it was as if it was half eaten away.。
And Aaron was pardoned from this,。
most likely because Miriam was the one that initiated it.。
And Aaron begged Moses,。
"Forgive us of our sins and pray to the Lord."。
And so Moses cried out to the Lord saying,。
"Please, God, heal her."。
And he did hear her prayer and healed her,。
except she was to be confined outside the camp。
for seven days before being back.。
So, I mean, this is utter humiliation for Miriam,。
which is almost the exact opposite。
of what she was going for.。
Because, I mean, what was it that she was trying to do?。
She was trying to accuse Moses。
of having this Kashite woman to be a wife.。
And we're not quite sure what that means.。
I mean, Kashite could mean the wife that she has,。
Sephora, when she was a Median wife,。
Median wife that he had acquired when he was in the desert,。
or it could mean that he had another wife,。
but that her skin color was different.。
And so, I mean, we don't really seem to know。
what the issue is,。
but she seems to be using it against Moses to say that,。
"Well, he's not so great after all."。
And so, I mean, when we look at this,。
we see that God makes no comment。
on this cushioned wife of Moses.。
So, obviously, it was not bothering God,。
but what was bothering God?。
What do you think it was that was Miriam's crime?。
I mean, could it be like last week。
when Pastor James is teaching us on envy?。
Was it because of envy and jealousy?。
I mean, it seemed to be like so on the surface, doesn't it?。
It seemed to be that he wants to be the same as Moses.。
But if we look further into the scripture,。
what is really her crime?。
You see, her crime wasn't so much on what she said,。
because if it was envy and jealousy,。
then God will be a very busy person。
because he'll have to punish every person。
that's jealous or envious or even prideful.。
But no, God came down actually for Moses, not for Miriam.。
So what was her crime was that it wasn't so much。
what she did, but who she did it to.。
It was because she was talking against his servant.。
That was her crime.。
And so now we can also learn from Miriam's mistake.。
If we want to be faithful to God,。
actually, we need to focus on God.。
This is the third point.。
We need to focus on God.。
You see, while Miriam was so focused on the power。
and the status, you know, rather or not,。
she is the same as a prophet as Moses,。
Moses was not focused on that.。
What was Moses focused on?。
God.。
He was focused on just being faithful to God.。
And how do we know that is because in the previous chapter,。
in chapter 11, he was actually the one that asked God,。
"Could you send me some help?"。
Because all these Israelites, they're complaining。
that there's no meat in the middle of the desert.。
And then God said, "Okay, okay."。
Well, he didn't actually quote, I don't wanna say,。
I quote God saying, "Okay," right?。
So he actually said, "All right, bring 70 of the elders。
"and the officials, and I will take some of the power。
"that I've given to you, and I'm gonna place it on them。
"so they can help you."。
And so while he placed his hand on them and prayed for them,。
not only did the 70 people received God's power,。
but two more from outside that camp.。
And so they were also prophesying.。
And what happened was Joshua went straight to Moses saying,。
"They're prophesying, stop them."。
And you know what?。
This is what Moses replied.。
"Are you jealous?"。
I didn't put it on my PowerPoint, I'll have to read it.。
"Are you jealous for my sake?。
"I wish that all the Lord's people were prophets。
"and that the Lord would put his spirit on them."。
So we can see that the heart of Moses。
was not on hoarding more power,。
but that he actually wanted all people to be prophets.。
And so we need to ask ourselves the same thing.。
Are we faithful to the job that God called us to do?。
Or are we faithful to God himself。
and how he wants to do things?。
Now, what we find is that Moses was so secure。
in his relationship with the Lord。
that he didn't feel like he had to compete。
or he has to get God's approval。
or to try to prove anything to anyone.。
And I just wanna share with you。
how I also am so secure in my earthly father.。
I mean, I remember a time when I was really young,。
I was about, I think eight or so.。
And oh, well, I mean, for my entire youth time,。
my dad had favored me.。
And I have to say, this is not only my version,。
you won't hear a different version from my sister, okay?。
And my dad favored me so much。
that when we went out for dinners,。
I was the one that got the shark fin soup with the rice.。
That is the (speaks in foreign language)。
Okay, if you know that dish.。
And I was the only one who got it.。
Everybody was sitting there.。
So that was how much I was favored.。
And I just, well, I knew that my relationship with him。
was rock solid.。
And so one time, my sisters, I have two older sisters,。
wronged me in some way and I was crying.。
And I looked at myself in the mirror。
and I looked like I've just cried.。
And I know that if I walked out there,。
my dad would scold at them and would punish them.。
And I really didn't want that to happen.。
So what I found in the bathroom was some baby powder.。
And so I thought baby powder equals to makeup.。
Hey, I was only eight,。
so I have no idea what the difference is.。
So there I was, powdering myself up。
and making sure that my dad would see me。
as if I haven't cried.。
And of course, by the time I was done,。
my face was, I mean, white as a ghost.。
So, and so, you know, when I walked out,。
I mean, I thought it was perfectly looking,。
but of course my dad asked, have you been crying?。
And I'm like, yes.。
Was your sisters mean to you?。
I was like, yes.。
And then he asked, is it that you're putting on all this。
so I wouldn't punish them?。
And I said, yes.。
And then he said, well,。
because you don't want me to punish them,。
I will pardon them.。
And, you know, I was so secure with my place。
in my father's heart that I didn't feel。
like I have to compete.。
And not only did I feel like I didn't have to compete,。
but I want, I didn't, I was,。
I was having enough love for even my sisters.。
And I feel like, you know, with this,。
when we see Miriam, what happened was。
she was still trying to gain the approval of men。
or trying to have a status in God's heart.。
And that was not the right approach.。
What was the right approach was what Moses had.。
And he had an extraordinary relationship with God.。
It was so secure that he didn't have to fight over it。
or, you know, to feel like he's,。
his status might be in jeopardy.。
And that's why he could extend and say,。
I wish that everyone was prophets。
and was able to have the spirit on them.。
You know, that's something for us to think about.。
I mean, are we also in the place where we're so secure。
that we don't have to compete for it?。
Or is it that sometimes that someone did something。
really well or even better than us,。
that we start to feel like we need to prove。
that we're doing as good as them or even better。
or put them down.。
And I mean, it's easy, you know,。
if that person is a lot older than you or a lot younger,。
but if you guys happen to come from the same background,。
let's say the same school around the same age,。
it just becomes so much harder.。
But if we learn from this,。
which is if we have the right relationship with God,。
then we don't have to be like Miriam and be envious。
because we're so secure in God.。
And so there are two things at least we can learn。
about God here is that when he has。
an extraordinary relationship with someone,。
he's actually ready to defend that person in a heartbeat.。
And also he's willing to reveal himself.。
See here that he says, "For a prophet,。
"he speaks in like visions and riddles,。
"but not for Moses。
"because of this extraordinary relationship."。
And also we see that he has extraordinary relationships。
with people who are humble and faithful to him.。
And so that is the key, everyone.。
That is the key.。
How do we have this relationship?。
Is that we are humbled and we are also faithful to him.。
Now, I mean, it's easy to say humble or faithful,。
but what does that mean?。
Well, if we look at John, not John,。
but if we look at the book of gospel of John,。
chapter 14, 21, it says,。
"Whoever has my commands and keeps them。
"is the one who loves me.。
"And the one who loves me will be loved by my father,。
"and I too will love them."。
And see this, "And show myself to them."。
I mean, church, do you want God to show himself to you?。
Do you want him to love you?。
I mean, I don't wanna say this as if this is works.。
We're not working to get a place in God's heart,。
but it says here that if we follow his commands,。
it means that we love him.。
So this is an act of love that we're doing.。
It is not the result.。
And so, I mean, just recently, I was reading my Bible。
and one of the scripture that I was reading。
was Hagar and Ishmael.。
I mean, what I wanted to say is,。
every day when we read a Bible verse,。
it might not seem like it's very related。
to what we might be going through.。
But if we take that verse, I mean, for me,。
it was Ishmael and Hagar,。
they were kicked out of Abraham's home.。
And then they saw that there was no way out。
and they cried out to the Lord.。
And then the Lord said, "I will bless Ishmael."。
And then her eyes was open and she saw an oasis。
where there was water and that's how they lived on.。
And of course, he also became a prosperous nation.。
So I mean, how would that help us。
if that happened to be the Bible verse that you read?。
And how it helped me was that I focus on God's goodness.。
And so while I was preparing literally for this sermon,。
I prayed into those scriptures.。
And I just said, "God, you're the God that provides.。
And right now I really need your divine enlightenment."。
And he helped me.。
He just gave me these enlightenments。
and I wrote this sermon with the fastest speed.。
And I think Pastor John could be my testimony of that.。
I can testify on it.。
And so, I mean, what I wanted to say is that。
we need to not focus on the road that we're in,。
but we need to focus on building。
this extraordinary relationship。
so that God appears in our lives every single day.。
Now, so today concluding,。
I just wanted to say that in Miriam's life,。
she has both strengths and weaknesses。
and we can learn from it to see how we can be faithful。
in our walk with God.。
I mean, she was courageous for her loved ones。
and we need to do that too.。
She was using her gifts at the right time in a unique way。
that served the purpose of God.。
And lastly, even though it was her mistake。
that she had focused on other things,。
but we know we can learn that we need to focus on God。
and building that intimate relationship with Him.。
And that is the key.。
'Cause while we serve God,。
it's easy to actually lose God Himself.。
So today, let us all be faithful servants of God.。
And the Lord our God shall speak to us then。
face to face and we won't have to guess what He is saying.。
And He can show up in your life every single day.。
So let us surrender everything that we have to Him。
and let us just want Him and Him alone.。
So let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father,。
we thank you so much that you are in our midst。
and Father, you said that if we keep your commands,。
we are the ones who love you and you will love us back。
and you will show yourself to us.。
And Father, we pray that today,。
as we learn from the life of Miriam, your servant,。
that we too can know and remember。
that the most important thing of course。
is to use the gifts that you've given us,。
but it's even more important that we focus on you.。
And Father, we pray that we'll surrender ourselves。
for one purpose only,。
and that is to build this extraordinary relationship。
with you.。
So help us God.。
In Jesus Christ name we pray, amen.。
