- Hey, everyone.。
It feels really strange having the whole middle.。
And this is a new prop because of our series,。
don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
So I am sitting here at a table without another chair。
so the enemy can't sit here.。
Good to see you all.。
What a weekend, eh?。
It's going to be a big one, isn't it, John?。
There's the Wimbledon final.。
There's the NBA finals.。
And every sentence that John starts with this week,。
every phrase he starts with, it's coming home.。
It's coming home.。
And it's going to be-- see, maybe this。
is where John and I are different.。
John is an optimist.。
So everything-- it's always going to be coming home.。
But maybe it's the football club that I support.。
It's a club called Arsenal.。
And it's-- wow.。
Wow.。
So it's a learned behavior that we have,。
is that never expect too much.。
Because we've experienced so much heartache.。
So I can tell you it's probably coming home.。
Maybe.。
It's going to go to a home.。
But maybe that's just the way I'm wired.。
Because that-- at least with Arsenal.。
We have this saying that-- people。
have this saying against us, is that we're-- the team。
are a bunch of fair weather men.。
Fair weather men means they only do well。
when everything is going really well.。
But when it's raining, or when it's stormy,。
or as they would say in England, on a cold, dark November。
night in Stoke-on-Trent, Arsenal always。
loses, because we're just not very good when。
the going gets tough.。
And maybe that's an interesting one that we all can figure out.。
Maybe I'll ask you a question to start with.。
What are you like when the going gets tough?。
What are you like when things get a little bit hard?。
When it gets a bit colder?。
When it gets a bit rainier?。
When the storms are coming?。
What are you like?。
In some ways, I guess, when the going gets tough。
is where our true self gets exposed, right?。
It gets revealed.。
Because that's when we finally show who we truly are.。
When everything's going well, when the weather is shining。
on a perfect May afternoon, Arsenal play very well.。
But when it's cold and dark in November。
in this dark, horrible place called Stoke-on-Trent,。
they struggle.。
When the going gets tough, they struggle.。
And you see, it's interesting for us,。
because as we're going to look through this series,。
don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
It's focusing on Psalm 23.。
And you all probably know Psalm 23.。
It's probably the most famous passage of scripture, right?。
But I wanted to ask you another question.。
If I was to boil down what Psalm 23 is really about,。
what would you say it's about?。
The Lord is my shepherd, and I will dwell in the house。
of the Lord forever.。
What's it really about?。
This short chapter, the most famous chapter of six verses,。
what's it really about?。
I think it's about how you face challenges,。
how you respond.。
They often say, it's not really what happens to you。
that matters, it's how you respond, right?。
In some ways, Psalm 23, which I'm trying to find here,。
is about that.。
It's about how we respond to challenges.。
It's about how much we trust in God,。
and how much we trust in the truth.。
That's why truth and trust are so similar.。
How much do we trust in God is what Psalm 23 is about.。
And I wanted to go through this。
because it's very important as we look at。
how we don't give the enemy a seat at the table.。
It really comes down to how tight。
are we holding on to truth?。
You see, one thing that is for sure,。
if we invite the enemy to our table,。
he really wants to bring about our destruction.。
That's his purpose, that's his goal.。
And how does he often do that?。
Through deceit, through lies,。
through the very thing against truth.。
That's how he does it.。
He wants to tell you, he wants you to feel。
that you have no value, that you have no worth,。
that you have no purpose, that no one loves you.。
Nicky Gumbel often shares a story that's been in my head,。
and I'm paraphrasing it 'cause I don't remember all of it,。
but he's telling this imaginary story。
of the devil talking to his demons,。
and they're scheming on how to distract。
the people of earth from God.。
And they're like, "Oh, what about if we feed them the lie。
"that all they need is money, sex, and power?"。
And he's like, "No, no, no,。
"because at some point they'll find out.。
"At some point, as they go down this road,。
"they'll realize that that doesn't fulfill."。
And fast forward to the end, he says,。
"The best lie that we can tell them。
"is that there is no hurry,。
"that there may be a God, that he really may love you,。
"that you really should follow him,。
"but the lie is there's no hurry.。
"Let's feed them the lie that there is no hurry,。
"that they can put it back to tomorrow.。
"Maybe that's the most dangerous lie."。
So how are we supposed to face these kinds of lies?。
How are we supposed to face this kind of deceit?。
By looking at the word of God, by looking at the truth.。
And I would say in the whole of scripture,。
Psalm 23 is probably the most powerful,。
most potent, most appropriate passage。
for how you respond to challenges,。
how you face the enemy.。
Because in Ephesians chapter six,。
Paul talks about the whole armor of God.。
And what's the sword of the spirit?。
It's the word of God.。
So the question really is, how well do we know Psalm 23?。
Those of us who have been in the church for a long time。
will have sang songs about Psalm 23, right?。
How well do we know?。
Do we know it off by heart?。
Do we know it in our hearts?。
And I wanted to read it to you first.。
I want to just recite it to you,。
but I want you to think about this.。
When David is writing this passage, these six verses,。
what is he really saying?。
What does he want us to know?。
When he says, "The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.。
He makes me lie in green pastures.。
He leads me beside still waters.。
He restores my soul.。
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.。
Even though I walk through the valley。
of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil。
for you are with me, your rod and your staff,。
they comfort me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.。
You anoint my head with oil and my cup overflows.。
Surely, goodness and mercy will follow me。
all the days of my life, and I shall dwell。
in the house of the Lord forever."。
That is the word of God.。
That is the truth that we should be following.。
That is the truth that we should be remembering。
in our hearts, living it.。
Psalm 23 is an interesting one,。
'cause where do you hear about Psalm 23 the most?。
Where do you hear it read the most?。
Funerals, 'cause it's always associated with death, right?。
Dying, it's the encouragement for everyone.。
But what I want to propose to you today,。
what I want to present to you today。
is it isn't really just about death.。
In fact, it's much more about living than you realize.。
Confession to make, John last week when he was sharing,。
he gave you all a preview saying,。
"James is gonna present a Psalm 23 remix."。
And I was listening to that bit, and I was like,。
"Oh, I am," 'cause I hadn't written the sermon at that time,。
and I suddenly was wondering what kind of remix should I do?。
You definitely don't want to hear me rap.。
That's a definite no-no.。
- Oh, come on.。
(audience laughing)。
- And then I thought, you know what?。
And I was like, "God, please tell me.。
Please tell me how to make this kind of interesting。
for all these brothers and sisters。
who probably know this passage very well."。
And then it occurred to me,。
if we're talking about not giving the enemy。
a seat at the table, what if we did?。
What if we did let the enemy sit here?。
And what if we did believe in his lies?。
What if we let him distort this truth?。
I want to present to you the, well, I just recited。
the Lord is my shepherd in the ESV,。
the English Standard Version,。
but I wanted to present to you a different version today。
in parallel, which is the ERV, the Enemy Remixed Version.。
And this is what it is.。
I want to show you the real scripture, the real truth,。
but when you compare it to what I have imagined.。
Now, disclaimer, I wrote it myself, okay?。
But it was me asking, "James, what would happen。
if I let the enemy have a seat at my table?。
How would he distort this scripture?。
And how would it make me feel?"。
So this is my own interpretation.。
I'm not the most creative kind of person.。
And I welcome you to go back。
and maybe you can rewrite your own one,。
your own Remixed Version,。
because I think it's very important.。
It really helped me.。
So I want to go through each verse.。
There's only six, and I want to really go through them.。
The first verse, of course, is,。
"The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want."。
John, last week, emphasized the word my.。
The Lord is my shepherd.。
There's this intimacy that comes with it.。
He's mine.。
He knows me.。
He cares for me.。
It's actually a really interesting way,。
a good way to meditate, if those of you who are learning。
and struggling, is taking a sentence such as that,。
"The Lord is my shepherd," and emphasizing different words,。
and spending time emphasizing different words.。
So the Lord is my shepherd.。
Jesus is my shepherd.。
The Lord is my shepherd.。
The Lord is my shepherd.。
Actually, David would have very well known。
what a shepherd had to do.。
He was a shepherd boy himself.。
But actually, back in those days,。
for someone who was reading that,。
shepherd actually had an even stronger connotation,。
which was king.。
Someone who had authority over something.。
Someone who cared for something, a leader.。
So what David is saying here is,。
"The Lord is my shepherd.。
"He is my king.。
"He knows me.。
"He cares for me.。
"And he looks after me.。
"And I shall not want.。
"And I shall not want."。
But what if you imagined if this was done。
in a remixed version, and it comes up here?。
If I was to flip it and translate it,。
if I was to invite the enemy to come and distort this truth,。
it would sound something like this.。
I have no one to lead me.。
No one who cares.。
Nothing ever seems enough.。
And as I present these parallels to you,。
I want you to think, which one do you resonate more with?。
Which one do you believe more with?。
Now, maybe in your head, you should believe the real one,。
but what about your actions?。
What about your actual thinking,。
your feeling, your emotions?。
Which one resonates with you more?。
See, when he says, "The Lord is my shepherd,"。
he's saying, "I have someone to lead me.。
"I have someone who cares.。
"I have a king.。
"And because I have him, there is nothing that I need."。
Jesus himself introduces himself as the good shepherd.。
In John chapter 10, John chapter 10, he says this.。
Verse 11, "I am the good shepherd."。
This is just after the famous verse 10,。
which is, "The thief comes only to steal。
"and kill and destroy.。
"I came that they may have life and have it abundantly."。
So Jesus talks about being the good shepherd.。
And what does he mean by that?。
If you study John chapter 10,。
you will see he's talking about he gives food,。
he protects, he sustains life.。
So Jesus is saying, "I am the good shepherd."。
You see, this is what he's saying.。
This is what David is saying here.。
He's saying, "If you let Jesus lead you,。
"you will find contentment.。
"You won't need anything else.。
"But if you don't let Jesus lead you,。
"you will find disappointment.。
"If you let Jesus lead you, you will find contentment.。
"There will be nothing else that you need.。
"But if you don't let him lead you,。
"you will find disappointment."。
Our job as a church, I strongly believe this,。
as Kongfolk Church, my organisation, Young Life,。
the whole point, why we exist,。
why all of us should be here,。
is to point people to Jesus。
and to tell them that Jesus is their shepherd.。
He can be the one to lead them.。
They should follow him.。
You see, there's something interesting here.。
Because if we don't tell them that,。
if we don't tell them that Jesus should be the one。
that you should be following,。
they will follow someone else.。
They will follow something else.。
They will follow the world.。
They will follow the role models of the world.。
It's our job as his body to point them to the good shepherd,。
the one who can lead them.。
Jesus says something fascinating here。
in John chapter 10, verse 12.。
He says this.。
He says, "I am the good shepherd.。
"He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd。
"who does not own the sheep,。
"sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees.。
"And the wolf snatches them.。
"He flees because he is a hired hand。
"and cares nothing for the sheep."。
He's saying, "Hey, if you don't follow me,。
"and if you follow other things,。
"if you follow the world,。
"as soon as there's trouble, they will leave you。
"because they don't really care for you.。
"They are not here to protect you.。
"So follow me.。
"And if you follow me,。
"you won't have anything that you need.。
"If you don't follow me, you will always be in need。
"and nothing, nothing will ever seem enough."。
Are we okay?。
Are we with me?。
So verse one, "The Lord is my shepherd.。
"I shall not want."。
So the question is, who's your shepherd?。
Who's been leading you as you navigate the path of life?。
Is it yourself?。
Is it someone else in the world who doesn't follow Jesus?。
Is it the blind leading the blind?。
Can you say from the bottom of your heart。
that the Lord is your shepherd?。
Because if you can, then you shall not want.。
Verse two says this, "He makes me lie in green pastures.。
"He leads me beside still waters.。
"He restores my soul."。
He paints this picture that God knows what you need.。
He'll lead you to a place where there's green pastures.。
He'll lead you to a place where there's still waters.。
What are the significances of those?。
Okay, if you're sheep, you need to eat.。
So then you go to these green pastures。
to the point where it's plentiful, it's everywhere.。
So you actually get to lie down.。
So a sheep can actually lie down。
and know that they have everything that they need.。
Why still waters?。
Sheep would have to go to the riverside to drink water.。
But if the water was running too fast,。
if the current was too fast,。
then they would get their wool wet, they would get heavy,。
and then they would run the risk of being swept away,。
whisked away, and be in danger.。
So David is saying here, if the Lord is your shepherd,。
he will lead you, he will take you to places。
where you can lie down, where you can stop,。
where you will have everything that you need,。
that you don't have to keep chasing and chasing and chasing,。
because in him, there will be enough.。
This is in direct contrast with a city like Hong Kong.。
I've said this before, right?。
Hong Kong is probably one of the hardest places。
to find peace, to stop.。
Christina and I, we took our kids this week on a holiday.。
We went all the way, we went really far,。
all the way to Lantau, and we went to Disneyland.。
And it was a great time.。
Disneyland is always a fun place to be.。
It's the happiest place on earth.。
But you know what I found something really interesting is?。
We couldn't switch off either,。
because when you're at Disneyland,。
you've got so many things that you need to get to.。
You need to make the most of everything.。
And as hotel guests, we were given these fast passes,。
which it didn't feel right if we let them go to waste.。
So we have to go through everything.。
And in the hotel, there's tons of things that you can do.。
You can go go-karting.。
You can do Tai Chi with Donald Duck.。
(audience laughing)。
No, no, no, that wasn't a joke.。
You actually can do Tai Chi with Donald Duck.。
Small plug there.。
And I found myself getting caught up in this,。
'cause I need to make the most of it.。
I need to go to all these different things.。
But what Jesus is saying here,。
what Davies is saying is about Jesus,。
if you follow him, you will get to a point。
where you can lie down,。
where you will be surrounded by everything that you need。
that you won't even need to move that far.。
And you'll be beside still waters。
where you don't feel as though。
you have to go and fight for everything yourself.。
Now, there's two, generalizing,。
there's two schools of thought that you probably buy into.。
You probably have a Western mindset。
where it's kind of like,。
I need to grasp everything myself.。
I need to take hold of my destiny.。
I need to chase my dreams and my ambitions.。
Everything is me.。
Take up, look after number one first.。
Well, you've got the other side, the Eastern side,。
which is you need to work very hard。
to gain any kind of approval.。
You need to prove and justify your existence.。
You won't receive any love。
unless you work very, very, very hard.。
You see, the problem with both of these mindsets。
is that they both will leave you wanting more.。
They both will get you to a point。
where actually it's not enough.。
Nothing ever seems enough.。
And what David is saying here is stop.。
He says it later in Psalm 46,。
be still and know that I am God.。
If you actually look at the context of Psalm 46,。
they're actually talking about nations raging。
and fighting against each other.。
So that be still isn't be still and just chill.。
It's drop your weapons, kind of stop.。
It's stop what you're doing right now.。
And I feel as though we need to hear that.。
For those of us in Hong Kong,。
that we need to hear stop, drop whatever you're doing。
and be still and know that I am God.。
Because hurry, because busyness is directly against。
how the kingdom of God works.。
And you see it time and time again in scripture。
that Jesus never seems rushed.。
And he invites you in to be still,。
to lie down in the green pastures,。
to be beside the still waters.。
Third verse is this, he leads me,。
oh, sorry, the remix version is this.。
It's like I'm stranded in the desert,。
desperate for something to quench my thirst,。
but no matter how hard I try, I always feel empty.。
Which of these versions describes you more?。
Which of these versions describes you?。
Because it will give you a hint as to who is your shepherd,。
who's actually leading you.。
Are you stranded in the desperate desert?。
Are you desperately finding something。
to quench this thirst?。
Do you think there's something inside you。
that seems to need to be fulfilled,。
but you just keep finding it?。
You're trying to find it, but you never seem to succeed.。
You find all these other things that fill it temporarily,。
but then you always get to that point。
where again, it's not enough.。
Have a think, who is your shepherd?。
Now, verse three, he leads me in paths of righteousness。
for his name's sake.。
The paths of righteousness isn't something too mysterious.。
It simply means he leads you down the right path。
so you won't get lost.。
He's taking you down the right route.。
He leads you there for his name's sake,。
which basically means it's in his nature.。
It's who he is.。
That's what we were singing, that God is good.。
God, you're so good.。
I'm so glad we sang that song.。
Actually, both of them, "The Goodness of God."。
Because I think very often we don't associate good with God.。
I think most of the time we think about him。
as this just distant being,。
this one that we should be afraid of,。
who's gonna send lightning down to destroy us。
if we misbehave.。
But do you understand that he's a good God?。
Do you let that permeate your soul?。
Do you recognise, do you realise that he is actually good?。
What does that mean?。
It means that he knows what's best for you。
and that he cares for you, that he is faithful.。
So for his name's sake, what is his character?。
He is good and he is faithful.。
I'm reminded again of Mr. Beaver telling Lucy,。
describing Aslan.。
This is the Chronicles of Narnia,。
for those of you who don't know,。
where Aslan is this lion that basically represents God.。
And this little girl is asking, "Who is this Aslan?"。
And she's asking a talking beaver, of course, as you would.。
And Mr. Beaver says, "Oh, he's not safe.。
"In fact, he's pretty dangerous.。
"He's pretty powerful, but he's good."。
Do you believe that, that God truly is good,。
that he knows what's best for you?。
So during this time, as you walk this path,。
sometimes it feels like a detour.。
If you truly follow God,。
there will be paths that you take,。
they will be like, "Hmm, are we sure?。
"Is this the way to be going?"。
But if you are truly following God,。
if Jesus truly is your shepherd and your eyes are on him,。
then you can trust in him and your job。
is to stay close to him.。
It's to stay close to him and remember that he is good,。
that he cares for you and he knows what's best for you。
and he is faithful.。
God, you're so good.。
Because you need to know that。
and you need to remember that because of the next verse.。
So you just etch that into your minds that God is good。
because the next verse puts that to the test.。
Next verse is probably the most famous part of Psalm 23,。
maybe the most popular part, definitely for sure,。
to the point where Coolio in "Gangster's Paradise"。
steals it and copies it as well, uses it.。
"Even though I walk through the valley。
"of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil,。
"for you are with me, your rod and your staff,。
"they comfort me."。
Wait a minute, verse three just said。
that you will lead me down the right path.。
And now you're saying you're gonna lead me down a path。
of the valley of the shadow of death.。
What's going on here?。
Why is he doing this?。
See, that's the problem, right?。
You see, for us believers, often we think。
that as soon as we believe in God,。
our life should be completely blissful and blessed.。
We should be like the poem, "Footprints in the Sand,"。
just strolling along the beach, enjoying time with God.。
But then we look at Jesus and we think,。
"Oh, actually, no, his life didn't seem。
"that blissful and blessed."。
But then why?。
Why does he lead us down this right path。
that ends up being the valley of the shadow of death?。
See, David knew.。
David, as a shepherd, knew that when he was looking。
after sheep, he would take them to the green pastures,。
he would take them to the still waters,。
but to get there, you need to go through the valleys.。
To get there, you need to lead the sheep to the valleys。
over avalanches, over raging rivers, over rock slides.。
To get there, to get to the places where they could feed,。
they have to take this treacherous road.。
That is why we need those valleys.。
And sometimes you think, "Oh, that shouldn't be the case.。
"I wanna stay on the mountaintop.。
"I wanna stay and enjoy the view here forever."。
But you see, here's the problem.。
Oswald Chambers says this,。
that mountaintops are only there for inspiration.。
If there's a mountain, that means there has to be a valley.。
Now, we're not there yet at the end。
where we can enjoy all of that forever,。
so we need to keep going.。
And to keep going, we have to go back down,。
and we have to go to these valleys.。
And this is why we need to remember。
the truth of this chapter,。
because we need to know that challenges and suffering。
are a part of the human experience,。
not apart from the human experience.。
To be human means at some point you have to suffer.。
No one here is immortal.。
At some point, we will have to suffer.。
We will have to die.。
And so for us, we would do well to remember。
that as we go through the challenges of life,。
that actually our eyes just need to remain on Him,。
because He will lead us.。
Something else here.。
This valley of the shadow of death, He walks through it.。
This tells me two things.。
Number one, it means we're not trapped there.。
Do you get it?。
Sometimes when you're in a troublesome situation。
or when you're in a challenge,。
you feel as though, "Oh my goodness, I'm gonna die.。
"This is gonna be forever."。
Do we feel like that?。
Sometimes whenever we face these things,。
we're just wondering, "When is it gonna end?"。
But we have to remember that these valleys,。
we will walk through, that it is not the end.。
You have to believe in that cheesy saying,。
and I'm a kind of cheesy kind of guy,。
is everything will be okay in the end,。
and if it's not okay, then it's not the end.。
So therefore you keep walking.。
So you're not trapped there.。
We have to walk through this valley.。
But you also, second point, you also can't run.。
Sometimes when we face challenges,。
the first thing we wanna do is get away from it。
as quick as possible,。
to get through it as quick as possible.。
I do this when I go to the gym.。
Christina can go to the gym for two, three hours straight,。
just constantly going.。
That's why she is like abnormally strong.。
(audience laughing)。
But I like to go to the gym。
and make sure I've ticked the boxes off as fast as I can,。
and anything more than 20 minutes is too long.。
And then I spend the rest of the time in the jacuzzi,。
where I wait for Christina.。
But sometimes I feel like that.。
Any challenges, actually I'm a guy。
that's like the path of least resistance.。
So if I'm walking in shops, or walking along the streets,。
and I see that I can pass through this shop。
to get some air conditioning, I will go through it.。
I will enjoy the air con,。
and I will do whatever it takes。
to make my life as easy as possible.。
That's me.。
But you see, but I'm reminded here。
that the Christian life is not like that.。
That's not what scripture tells us.。
That's not the truth.。
There are challenges that we constantly have to face.。
So we're not trapped in them,。
but we also can't run through them.。
We have to walk through this valley.。
See, the word for death here means extreme danger, peril.。
But it's also just a shadow.。
I walked through the valley of the shadow of death.。
Someone once said, "I'd much rather be hit。
"by the shadow of a bus than by a bus itself."。
Shadows are not things that are gonna destroy you.。
It was Ruth Renkel that said, "Never fear shadows,。
"because it only means that there is a light nearby."。
So we walk through this valley of the shadow of death。
with confidence because we know that He is with us.。
Jesus is saying, John 16, 33,。
"In this world, you will have trouble,。
"but take heart, I have overcome the world, and follow me.。
"You are with me."。
Now it's interesting here because David here。
goes from the third person, the Lord is my shepherd.。
He makes me, He leads me, He restores, He leads.。
To now changing in verse four to, "You are with me."。
He heightens the level of intimacy.。
He's saying that Jesus really is with me.。
"Your rod and your staff, they comfort me."。
Your rod and the staff are two tools。
that a shepherd would have whilst looking after the sheep。
to protect them, to count them, to guide them,。
to tell them off, to rebuke them, to rescue them.。
But both tools require close proximity.。
So he's saying, "I won't have to fear。
"as I walk through this because Jesus, you,。
"my good shepherd, you are with me.。
"And your rod and your staff, they deliver me."。
No, they help me escape.。
No, "Your rod and your staff, they comfort me."。
So we see here, no promise of immunity,。
no promise of deliverance.。
He's saying that in your trials, in your suffering,。
whatever you're going through right now,。
Jesus is with you to comfort you, to get through this.。
And Romans talks about this because it's in the suffering。
that you will then persevere,。
and then you'll gain character, and then you'll have hope.。
So he is with you.。
And really the crux of this,。
the key point of this verse is this.。
"Even though I will, even though I walk。
"through the valley of the shadow of death,。
"I will fear no evil."。
That's it.。
If you're gonna, this is my favorite part of sermons。
that I'm listening to,。
'cause it's the way the preacher goes.。
If you forget everything else in the sermon, remember this.。
And now you're all paying attention。
just for another five seconds.。
"Even though I will."。
I want you to hold onto that.。
I want you to think about your situation.。
Even though I'm going through this problem at work,。
even though I'm going through this problem with my marriage,。
even though my kids are struggling with this,。
even though the world seems to be falling apart。
because of a pandemic and politics,。
even though, even though, even though I'm in a chemo ward,。
even though I will trust in the Lord.。
I will.。
You have to will yourself to do it.。
You have to remind yourself to do it.。
What is your even though?。
What is your even though I will?。
Because as I said at the beginning,。
it's not what happens to you that matters,。
it's how you respond.。
So even though you are going through this,。
the reminder is, but you will do this.。
You will praise the Lord.。
You will trust in God.。
Reminded of in the book of Daniel in the Old Testament,。
Daniel's friends, they were under threat.。
They refused to worship this king as their God.。
And so they were getting threatened。
to being thrown into a blazing furnace.。
And what do they say here?。
Daniel three, I think it's on the slides, verse 17.。
They say this, "If we are thrown in the blazing furnace,。
"the God we serve is able to deliver us from it.。
"And he will deliver us from your majesty's hand."。
But here's the key.。
But even if he does not, we want you to know your majesty,。
that we will not serve your gods。
or worship the image of God you have set up.。
Even if God doesn't deliver me from this thing,。
even if, even though I'm still struggling with this,。
I will still trust him.。
I will still worship him.。
Again, in the Old Testament, Habakkuk, a minor prophet,。
during the time where the Israelites。
were being ruled over by the Babylonians.。
He had this passage that says this,。
"Though the fig tree should not blossom,。
"nor fruit beyond the vines,。
"the produce of the olive fail,。
"and the fields yield no flock."。
Basically, if everything goes wrong,。
"The flock be cut off from the fold,。
"and there be no herd in the stalls.。
"Yet I will rejoice."。
Brothers and sisters, that's it.。
If you are able to latch on and understand。
and believe that mindset of, "Even though I will,"。
then you can stick to the truth.。
You can remember what the truth is,。
and you can fight off, you can fend off the enemy's lies.。
I'm reminded of Acts 16, Paul and Silas,。
they're arrested for spreading the gospel.。
They're beaten.。
They are put in prison.。
Acts 16, and what happens?。
They're no doubt lying on the floor in prison.。
No doubt, at that point,。
they could feel sorry for themselves, but they don't.。
What does scripture say they do?。
They're singing praises.。
Can you imagine just lying on a prison cell floor,。
completely just bleeding?。
Even though, yet I will.。
Even though I will.。
What's your even though?。
Verse five, "You prepare a table before me。
"in the presence of my enemies.。
"You anoint my head with oil, and my cup overflows."。
The translation of this would be,。
"And now the challenges I face。
"are threatening to destroy me and expose me.。
"I have nothing left to give,。
"and no one coming to my rescue."。
No one coming to my rescue.。
These enemies, these attackers,。
no one is gonna be protecting me.。
See, he moves now.。
He's stopped talking about shepherding,。
and he moves on to hosting.。
And he talks about God inviting him to this table.。
And you see, this is the interesting thing here.。
David's facing all these troubles,。
and yet what he sees God doing is this.。
In the midst of those challenges,。
in the midst of those challenges,。
whatever, however hard life is sucking right now,。
he sees God telling him, "Sit down."。
He knows the enemies are right there.。
He knows all the challenges are right there,。
and yet God is saying, "Take a seat."。
Let me translate that to maybe modern day language,。
young people language.。
It's God telling all of us, "Hey, eyes on me.。
"Hey, eyes on me.。
"Don't worry about them.。
"They'll still be there, but you, eyes on me.。
"Don't be afraid because I am here,。
"because I have invited you to my table."。
And in that culture, if you invite someone to your table,。
that is an honoured guest.。
That is someone who is very, very special.。
And if they're extra special,。
they get anointed with oil on their head,。
which is exactly how David describes it.。
So God's looking at you.。
He's looking at me saying, "Hey, sit down.。
"Drop your weapon.。
"Be still.。
"Know who I am.。
"It doesn't matter who they are.。
"In the midst of your challenge at work,。
"in the midst of your challenge in your family,。
"in the midst of the chemo ward, sit down.。
"Hey, eyes on me."。
And this cup that overflows symbolises God's provision.。
He's saying, "If I'm with God, if he's my shepherd,。
"I shall not want.。
"I will be in the green pastures.。
"I will be beside the still waters."。
So the question here is, again,。
whatever challenges you're facing,。
whatever enemies you have,。
God is telling you, "Hey, eyes on me.。
"Take a seat.。
"You don't have to be afraid."。
Instead of believing the challenges。
that are threatening you will destroy and expose you,。
know that I have prepared a table for you。
in the presence of your enemies。
because they don't face me at all.。
The goal is for you to keep your eyes on me。
and your cup will overflow.。
And the final verse,。
"Surely goodness and mercy will follow me。
"all the days of my life。
"and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever."。
The word follow there is redap,。
which actually is stronger than just follow.。
It's pursue, which is why the song that we sang was so good。
because it's, at the end, goodness of God.。
At the end, it's surely your goodness is running after me.。
That's what it actually means.。
God is running after you.。
You see, the flip, the remixed version of this is,。
"I can see no end to the sorrow。
"and grief as my name has only a lifetime of wandering。
"as it's called.。
"I will die alone and with no peace forgotten."。
God's saying, "Hey, look at me.。
"My goodness and mercy will follow you."。
It's chasing after you.。
See, David knew about enemies pursuing him.。
He had King Saul chasing him down.。
He had his son chasing him down.。
But he's saying, "None of those matter。
"if God is chasing me, because God will outrun them.。
"God will overpower them,。
"because those enemies will be rendered harmless。
"if God is in pursuit."。
So let us remember that truth.。
Surely goodness and mercy will follow us。
all the days of our lives,。
instead of thinking that we will die alone,。
that we will have no peace,。
that we will be wandering here forever.。
You see, the interesting thing about here,。
and then I'm gonna go into the conclusion, is this.。
We need to remember that God is pursuing us,。
that God is chasing after us,。
because often we think we're chasing after God, don't you?。
Sometimes I do.。
Sometimes I think I'm not a good enough person.。
I need to work harder at being a good person.。
I need to chase after God.。
He's just so far, he's just so distant.。
But that's not the gospel.。
So, and if you believe that,。
I can tell you that is the enemy speaking.。
That means the enemy has got a seat at the table,。
because the gospel is this,。
that God pursues you,。
that he chases after you.。
How?。
He left heaven's throne to come to be with you。
in the form of Jesus, to rescue you.。
He is the one who is pursuing you.。
And the gospel needs us to remember。
that we don't need to chase after the approval of man,。
that we don't need to fear evil,。
because God himself is following us, is pursuing us.。
So that's it.。
We can put the whole Psalm on there now.。
Psalm 23.。
This passage we find is not about funerals.。
It's not about dying.。
It's about living.。
It's about the daily activities that we do,。
but in a radically transformed, God-centered perspective.。
It changes your approach to how you live.。
It doesn't, of course, it should change your approach。
about what death is as well.。
But we can see here, this passage, this chapter,。
tells us that in God, we will find peace, not escape.。
In God, we will find contentment, not complacency.。
In God, we find the answers to everything,。
but the Lord needs to be our shepherd.。
We need to be following Jesus himself,。
that we shouldn't have to worry,。
that God himself will protect us.。
He will provide for us.。
How do we know that?。
Because Jesus is the good shepherd,。
but he also is the sacrificial lamb.。
We can trust that he is with us because he's been there,。
because he himself walked through the valley of death,。
and he destroyed death so that they are just shadows now.。
So he has put death to death,。
and he's shown us there is something beyond the grave,。
so we don't need to fear evil.。
And as Chinese people fear death, like no other culture,。
everything is about death.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Everything is about death.。
And Jesus is saying, "Hey, I defeated death.。
"I walked through the valley of death,。
"so to you, they are simply shadows,。
"so you won't have to fear."。
That he resisted the deceiver himself。
with the word of God, with the truth,。
and now he becomes our truth.。
And now he can show you the way.。
Now he can give you the abundant life。
because now he is your way.。
He is the way, the truth, and the life.。
Jesus is saying, "Hey, eyes on me, whatever is happening."。
And he will rescue you from your valley.。
Brothers and sisters, I don't know。
what you're going through.。
I don't know what challenges that you have.。
Everyone has different kinds of challenges.。
But the message I want you to receive and to believe。
is that God is with you, that Jesus is with you,。
whatever it is that you're going through,。
however bad it is, even to the point。
of a tortuous death that may await you,。
Jesus is saying, "I've been there.。
"I have been there and I am with you now.。
"So take heart because I have overcome the world.。
"Hey, eyes on me."。
D.L. Moody has this great quote which says,。
"Death may be the king of terrors,。
"but Jesus is the king of kings."。
Death may be the king of terrors,。
but Jesus is the king of kings.。
So as I show you this "Enemy" remixed version,。
how many of those verses have you actually let。
seep into your mind to deceive you?。
Now, once you've seen the "Enemy" remixed version,。
something amazing happens.。
When you look back at the real version,。
there is such beauty and encouragement and power in it。
so that you can now say, "Wow, the Lord is my shepherd.。
"I shall not want."。
And you can say that, "He leads me beside。
"its green pastures to still waters.。
"He restores your soul.。
"He leads you in paths of righteousness for his namesake。
"because that is who he is."。
And even though you walk through the valley。
of the shadow of death, you will fear no evil。
for he is with you because his rod and his staff,。
they comfort you.。
And he prepares a table before you。
in the presence of your enemies.。
And he anoints your head with oil and your cup overflows.。
So surely goodness and mercy shall follow you。
all the days of your life.。
Do we get that?。
When you're faced with this "Enemy" version,。
this deceitful version, and then you compare it。
to the glorious truth of what he really is,。
I hope that lifts you.。
I hope that lifts you.。
And I hope that encourages you to keep your eyes up,。
to look to the shepherd.。
I started with a football conversation。
at the beginning of this.。
And as it's a very special weekend,。
I wanted to finish with a football conversation.。
As I was walking here to church,。
I was somehow, I don't know how,。
I was reminded of the anthem。
that Liverpool Football Club fans sing.。
And I don't really pay much attention。
because I'm a bitter, disappointed,。
frustrated football fan.。
But I was like, man, what such gospel truth。
in that song, "You'll Never Walk Alone."。
Such gospel truth.。
That whatever you face right now,。
that you know that you will never walk alone.。
Not because of the drunk football fans。
standing next to you singing this song,。
but because of Jesus.。
Do you get that?。
That you'll never walk alone because of Jesus.。
And I wanted to just to finish。
with reading the lyrics to that song.。
I won't sing it to you.。
John, you probably know this, right?。
No, you know this, right?。
When you walk through a storm,。
hold your head up high。
and don't be afraid of the dark.。
At the end of a storm, there's a golden sky。
and the sweet silver song of a lark.。
Walk on through the wind, walk on through the rain.。
Though your dreams be tossed and blown,。
walk on, walk on.。
With hope in your heart and you'll never walk alone.。
You'll never walk alone.。
Walk on, walk on.。
With hope in your heart, you'll never walk alone.。
That is a Psalm 23 remixed in a beautiful way.。
Let's pray.。
Jesus, we believe that you are the good shepherd,。
that you truly do love us,。
that you truly do care for us,。
and that in you, we will have nothing that we need.。
So give us the strength to follow you。
to these green pastures and to these still waters.。
Restore our souls,。
'cause nothing from this world seems enough, ever.。
Lead us on the right path.。
Stop us from getting lost.。
And even though we walk through the valley。
of the shadow of death,。
keep our eyes fixed on you.。
Give us the strength to lift up our weary heads.。
And let us see your loving eyes.。
And let us see and feel your goodness.。
In the presence of our enemies,。
remind us that you are here.。
In the midst of the challenges that we face,。
give us a peace that allows us to drop our weapons,。
to be still and know that you are God.。
And fill us up, Lord,。
to the point that our cups overflow.。
And may your goodness and mercy follow us。
all the days of our lives.。
And we thank you.。
That we will never walk alone,。
because you never let go.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
