Can you hear me now?。
Thank you Gabriel for doing that and then running back to do the sound.。
Hey, good to see you all.。
What a crazy week we've had.。
What a crazy week we've had.。
Last week we were at Typhoon Aid and then we went on Zoom and then we had another typhoon。
five days later.。
That's unprecedented, right?。
And then public holiday.。
Thank you Paul for leading worship.。
And Paul, I've got to embarrass you here.。
Paul asked a question.。
Paul asked a very important question this week.。
A question which some of us were worried that would not get the right answer.。
But he got the right answer and Melanie here said yes.。
Of course it really probably wasn't a surprise.。
It's the first time she's seen Paul take a haircut and iron a shirt for a long, long。
time.。
I'm going to be praying for you Melanie all the days of your life.。
Oh dear.。
So happy, so happy, so shocked but so happy.。
Oh dear.。
Hey it's really good.。
It really is good to be here today.。
And we've been going through the book of Timothy.。
Paul charges Timothy with all these things.。
Chapter one he charges him to uphold truth.。
And then chapter two he charges him to pray.。
Chapter three he talks about what a leader is.。
He charges him to lead.。
Chapter four he talks about how to be a good servant.。
And of course if you rewind your mind all the way back to the beginning, chapter one。
verse five, the aim of the charge, the goal of the command is what?。
Is love.。
Love that issues from a pure heart, just a state of single-minded devotion.。
From a good conscience where it's discerning what is right and wrong.。
Not just for themselves as individuals but in the context of community.。
What's right and wrong for everyone.。
And finally a sincere faith, a certain level of genuineness that came with it.。
And really that's why we love.。
That's where love comes from.。
But you know what, as I'm reading this book and I love this book and I feel as though。
I relate a lot to this young pastor Timothy, I don't know, as I'm reading these chapters。
I'm like these are high callings.。
These charges are intense.。
They're real.。
And if I'm Timothy I feel as though I might be crumbling under the pressure.。
I might be going, "Man, this is so much stuff to do.。
This is so hard.。
How do I love?"。
And maybe, again, this is only my interpretation, "Paul, you don't know the specific group of。
people that I'm calling to.。
You don't know about that group of guys, that group of men who are really causing me trouble.。
How do I love them?"。
Or maybe there's this other group that are manipulating the church community to get what。
they want.。
How do I love them?。
This is hard.。
This is not easy.。
And we know that Timothy is under stress here.。
Chapter 5 verse 23, Paul almost alludes to that.。
He's saying, "Hey, you've got a lot of ailments.。
You've got a lot of problems.。
This is probably the stress."。
He even gives him some practical health advice about having a little wine just to kind of。
help him.。
And so we know that Timothy is under a lot of stress.。
And he knows that the goal is love.。
He knows where love comes from.。
But the real question is, what does love look like on the other side?。
How does he express it out to the other side?。
And as I look at chapter 5 here, the title is "Instructions for the Church."。
There's really three themes that pop up that are on the screen, which is, one is, he must。
love everyone like family.。
And the second one is, he must love everyone in need.。
He has to love those who are in need.。
And finally, to love everyone who leads, to love those who are in leadership.。
And we're not going to be able to go through every verse today.。
We don't have time for that.。
But I wanted to look at these three themes and ask ourselves, how do we apply that to。
us right now?。
And actually, I love it when Johnny leads, just because of the energy that he has.。
For all of you who are new here, it might have been terrifying to shout your name out.。
But for us, actually, it's really nice to hear who you are and to welcome you into this。
family.。
And for me, that's such value.。
And so we're going to look at these ones.。
And I want to start jumping straight away and look at the first one.。
Love everyone like family.。
Verse 1 and 2, what does it say?。
Do not rebuke an older man, but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as。
brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters in all purity.。
He's saying you've got to love these people like family.。
The great theologian that is Dominic Toretto, or Vin Diesel, from the films Fast and Furious.。
He talks about this a lot.。
In fact, everything that Dominic Toretto does is about family.。
It's all about...。
And what's his famous line?。
"I don't have friends.。
I have family."。
And that's hit the aim of his charge.。
Everything that he does is about family.。
And really, Paul's saying the same thing to Timothy here.。
He's saying if you want your church to survive, if you want your church to thrive, you need。
to treat each other like family.。
I wonder when you walked in here today, when you walked into this building, when you walked。
into this room, of course, the first thought is, "Wow, it's so cold in here."。
But the second thought must be, "Did you think, 'Are these people family, or are they just。
friends, or are they acquaintances, or are they just fellow attendees?'"。
Because you see, the thing is, if we're going to make church work, we have to treat each。
other as family.。
You know what Paul's doing here?。
He's laying down a blueprint for cross-generational ministry.。
He's laying down a blueprint on how you make church work.。
And actually, this applies directly to us here at KFC, because Senior Pastor Peter,。
his vision is what?。
Cross-generational ministry.。
Kwa doi thong han.。
How do we do it so that the old can be with the younger?。
But you see, here's the thing, and maybe Hong Kong has this more than anywhere else in the。
world.。
There are so many gaps, so, so many gaps.。
Right now, the biggest gap, of course, there are plenty.。
One is the age gap.。
There's the generation gap that's never been this wide because of globalization, because。
of technology.。
Old people don't understand young people.。
Young people don't want to understand old people.。
And so you have this big divide here.。
But then you have other ones.。
You have the political one, and then you have the socioeconomic one.。
You have the gender one.。
So, there are all these gaps.。
Can you imagine Timothy trying to keep this group together, whilst there's still persecution。
outside, but trying to keep them together and stop them from fighting?。
And so, Paul gives him some very specific advice and says, "Hey, treat them like family.。
Love everyone like family."。
And he goes to the first one, he says, "Don't rebuke the older men.。
Encourage them as you would a father."。
What's he saying here?。
He knows that maybe there's a group of older men, grumpy old men.。
Does anyone know any grumpy old men?。
Is anyone a grumpy old man?。
Just picture this, maybe the Pixar film Up, Mr. Fredrickson, this kind of grumpy old man.。
He ends up getting disarmed by this cute Russell.。
Why?。
Because he's filled with love and innocence and encourages him.。
And he's saying, "Don't rebuke the older men, but encourage them like you would your father."。
He's saying, "Treat them with respect.。
Treat them with appreciation."。
That actually older people have wisdom that you don't have.。
That older people have gone to places, have walked further than you ever have.。
So, respect them.。
You stand on the shoulders of the giants who come before you.。
So, treat them with humility.。
Treat them with respect.。
Treat them as you would your father.。
Of course, these are ideal family values and ideal family roles here.。
And then he talks about younger men.。
He's saying, "Treat your younger men, the younger men as what?。
As brothers."。
What does he mean here?。
He says, "Treat them as equals."。
So, with older men, you have to show appreciation.。
With the younger ones, you have to treat them as your companions.。
He's saying, "Don't look down on them."。
Actually, the chapter just before in chapter four, he says, "Timothy, you're young.。
Don't let anyone look down on you."。
Yet set an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.。
But then he's saying, "Don't let anyone look down on you, but don't you go and look down。
on the younger ones."。
We've all been there, right?。
When we look at someone young and look at someone who looks seemingly naive, who probably。
is naive, who's just about to make the same mistakes that we did, and we're like, "Oh,。
young person.。
Oh, young blood.。
You just don't know."。
And he's saying, "With those people, treat them as brothers.。
Treat them as equals.。
Be patient with them."。
Then he talks about older women.。
He says, "Hey, treat your older women as your mothers."。
What does that mean?。
Treat them with affection.。
Treat them with love.。
Treat them with respect.。
Treat them with obedience.。
And finally, with younger sisters, he says, "Treat them in purity as though they are your。
own sister."。
Young Timothy here must have, again, Paul talks about it.。
"Hey, flee the desires of your youth."。
So, he would have had these temptations.。
He says, "Treat the younger women like your sister."。
So, no domineering, no manipulating, no lusting.。
Treat them as though they are your younger sister.。
Love everyone like family.。
And that is the key here for us.。
This is the key theme that I want you to keep in your mind as we look around.。
Look around the people next to you.。
Do you treat them as family?。
Not just friends, as family?。
And of course, it's very hard.。
You see, we struggle with our own family sometimes, right?。
But we bear with them.。
Why?。
Because we didn't get to choose them and we can't run away from them.。
But here's the thing.。
Sometimes we treat church as though we can pick and choose.。
But I think the heart of Jesus, the heart of Paul is, "No, actually, just like your。
blood family, you don't really get to choose your spiritual family either."。
You're here, we're in a city that's just filled with us just choosing and picking in different。
churches just to go and attend, just to go and consume.。
But actually, if you treated that church community like family, then you would commit to saying,。
"Hello.。
Ah, you're late, young man.。
Sorry, everyone.。
I don't call everyone out like that.。
That's actually my younger brother.。
So you have to call him higher and just point him out.。
Treat everyone like family."。
Oh dear.。
So that's the first one.。
And that's the one that will drive us with the other two points, which is this, which。
is love everyone in need.。
Verse three says this, "Honor widows who are truly widows."。
Just to give you a little bit of understanding about why widows.。
Back in the ancient world, widows or women would be solely, fully reliant on the men.。
Their livelihood will be based on the man.。
So just imagine if that woman lost her husband, then she would actually be completely excluded。
from so many things.。
Back then, there would be no life insurance.。
There'd be no pension.。
There'd be no government assistance.。
So what really Paul is saying here is honor and look after those and love those who are。
in need.。
And widows symbolize that need.。
In fact, we know how big a problem this is because that's how deacons came to be.。
Acts chapter six, you have the apostles who were busy ministering.。
And then suddenly what you had was a group of widows over here who were fighting for。
food and arguing.。
And so they said, "Okay, we're going to have to sort this out.。
This is a problem."。
So you can imagine the desperation that the widows would have.。
Because now they have no one to defend them, no one to look after them.。
And you know what?。
God has always had a thing for widows.。
Since Israel's inception, he has made himself a defender of widows, defender of those in。
need.。
He's written them into the laws that those in need will truly be looked after.。
In fact, justice within the community would be measured in part by its treatment of the。
widows.。
So you see here, God takes people in need.。
God takes widows very, very seriously.。
The apostle James, he talks about this.。
What's true religion?。
True religion is one that would care for orphans and widows.。
So we know how important, we know how serious this is.。
And so verse five, verse five, it says, "She who is truly a widow left all alone."。
But it says something very interesting in this is, "Honor widows, those who are truly。
widows."。
What does that mean?。
Why did he have to say it twice?。
You see, most likely what was happening at that point was there were people within the。
community who were widows, but some of them were trading on their widowhood.。
They were taking advantage of the situation that the church needs to look after each other.。
They'd seen in Acts chapter two, or at least the events of Acts chapter two, that they。
would care for each other.。
They would share everything.。
So some of the widows who actually did have family themselves, they weren't on their own,。
but they were trading on their widowhood to basically benefit.。
So Paul's saying, "Those who are truly in need."。
He's talking about a widow who has no one else, who has no children to look after at。
all.。
He's just saying, "For those people who are in need, the church has a responsibility。
to love them and to look after them."。
Because the church simply didn't have the resources to look after everyone.。
And what we see here again is Paul, he's tying the household with the church, and he's saying。
they're basically one and the same.。
He's saying family responsibilities are the primary expression of Christian discipleship.。
That's the primary platform where you can exercise this, to look after those within。
your family is basically a form of Christian discipleship.。
It's basically a form of being a Christian.。
And he says this, he says, "If you don't even do this, you're worse than an unbeliever."。
Because even those who don't know Jesus, they still look after their family.。
So you must too.。
So we need to look after those who are in need.。
We need to look after the widows.。
And then he starts coming out with some pretty specific instructions.。
He's saying, "Actually, if these widows are 60 and over, the older widows, enroll them。
into the church and have them serve the church community."。
Why?。
Because those who are older would have all this wisdom and all this experience to share。
with the younger people.。
But also because maybe anyone over 60, they're probably less likely to want to get remarried。
again.。
And then he gets very specific and he says, "Those who are under 60, who are younger,。
don't let them enroll, because likely they are going to want to get married."。
And he didn't want them to be torn by these two desires, by wanting to serve the church,。
but then also wanting still to have a family to care for.。
So for those older ones that are there to enroll, he says this.。
He says that you can't just enroll them just because they're over 60.。
They need to have shown their worth.。
They need to have shown their character.。
There's a couple of traits in verse 10 that he talks about.。
He says, "They have to have been known to bring up children.。
They need to know how to care for young people.。
They need to have shown hospitality.。
They need to have washed the feet of the saints."。
Now, of course, that term, "wash the feet of the saints," it was an idiom.。
It wasn't, "Hey, if you want to go enroll in the church, you've got to go find yourself。
a saint and then wash their feet, and then you will be allowed in the church."。
That's not what it was.。
It was saying, it's an idiom in paying tribute to what Jesus did himself when he washed the。
feet of his disciples.。
He's saying this person, these older widows, have to be filled with love and care for the。
next generation.。
Then enroll them in.。
But for the younger ones, don't do that.。
Again, seems a little bit harsh, but likely what was happening at that point were people。
who, younger ones maybe specifically, who were trading on their widowhood, benefiting。
from the church, but then spending their time being idle, going from house to house, being。
busybodies.。
That's where the middle of that chapter really talks about, and it really addresses saying,。
"Don't do that."。
Paul's saying, "But don't allow people to be lazy.。
Love those in need, but love wisely."。
We have to show discernment when we love people.。
Love them wisely.。
Paul talks about this in 2 Thessalonians 3.。
He says, he's very simple, he's very blunt.。
He says, "Those who don't work, don't eat."。
Those who don't work, don't eat.。
Of course, millennials, that will be heartbroken to hear that.。
Those who don't work, don't eat.。
What you see here then is Paul's treatment of this, and he's being very specific, strangely。
specific.。
His treatment of this suggests one thing to me.。
When you're loving those in need, you need to love them wisely, and it's not just about。
money.。
In fact, there's a primary goal when you help someone, and that is to disciple them, to facilitate。
and to nurture godliness, to bring them closer to God, and to help them to be productive,。
to help them bear fruit.。
Paul here lays down, as specific as it is, a carefully manufactured, sorry, a carefully。
structured ministry to facilitate discipleship and godliness.。
That's what he's trying to do.。
It's not just about throwing money at a problem and letting that be that.。
I just highlighted my brother just then, and actually in a couple of weeks, he's going。
to actually come up to the stage to share with me, and I'll give you a little bit of。
a preview now.。
He's running for an NGO called Hope International, and there's this mindset where, again, he。
does a whole ton of stuff that I don't really understand, but the key thing here really。
is instead of his charity, which helps a lot of people in developing countries, especially。
in Africa, the goal is not to just give them fish, but to train them how to fish, to equip。
them, to facilitate them, to build them up, and you'll hear more about that at the end。
of the month.。
And so there's this same thing that Paul is trying to nurture here in this very carefully。
structured ministry, is love those in need, love them wisely, with the goal of nurturing。
godliness out.。
So the question really for us is, what are we doing?。
What we see here is that the church must have compassion for those in need.。
It must seek to include those who have been excluded.。
When was the last time we helped someone who was in need?。
Because that's what family does, right?。
They made 10 films out of this idea that family needs to look after each other because there's。
someone in need.。
Whether it's to hijack and steal lots of cars and drive tanks over cliffs, the whole premise。
of these 10 films is, "Hey, I don't have friends.。
I have family, and I have a family member in need, so I'm going to go and catch some。
big villain somewhere."。
And that's it.。
But that's the truth, that when you have family, when you have those in need, you need to care。
for them.。
So we as a church, if we are a family, that we're not just a country club, we're not just。
a corporation, but we're a family, then are we genuinely helping those in need?。
Are we helping the disenfranchised youth of the city?。
Are we helping the teen moms, the single moms?。
Are we helping those who are divorced?。
Are we helping those who are ex-convicts?。
Are we helping those who have disabilities?。
Are we doing these things?。
And again, it's not just about throwing money at the problem and saying, "I've helped them."。
There's more to it, because the goal isn't just to help fulfill their temporary earthly。
need, that of course is a huge part of it, but then the second part is how do we draw。
them closer to God?。
What can we do?。
How do we love those in need in a way that is wise?。
And that really is the second point here.。
And the third and the final one, he goes into this final part of the passage from verse。
17, and he says this, "Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor,。
especially those who labor in preaching and in teaching."。
So he's just talked about those in need, and now he talks about those who lead.。
And he talked about this in chapter three, but he kind of goes back to it again, and。
he's saying, "Elders, pastors, shepherds, overseers," whatever translation you want。
to use, "They are worthy of double honor if they are doing it well."。
What does that mean?。
Why double honor?。
Really, the double honor here is talking about two things.。
It's talking about respect and remuneration.。
It's talking about appreciation and compensation.。
He's saying, "If you have elders within your flock who have given their time fully to serving。
this church, then you need to look after them.。
You need to respect them, and you need to appreciate them."。
And then he jumps into this Old Testament passage, I think verse 18, where actually。
this is handed down again from the days of Moses.。
And he's saying, "Hey," verse 18, "You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain."。
He's saying, "If God ordains ample provision for an ox who's treading grain, then how much。
more should a community look after the elders who are caring for them?"。
And so he's saying, "Respect them and support them, especially those who are preaching and。
teaching and doing it well.。
It's important to care for those who have been placed in roles of leadership, and you。
need to love them in the right way."。
And just before you're an elder or a preacher or a pastor who's getting very excited about。
this, he then talks about something else as well.。
Because loving them has to be wise.。
You don't just pay them, you don't just respect them, but you also hold them accountable.。
And then he talks about two separate things here.。
He talks about indictment and appointment.。
And he talks about this interesting part here in verse 19.。
So he goes from telling them, "Hey, respect your pastors, support financially your pastors,。
but also hold them accountable."。
Because verse 19, he says, "Do not admit a charge against an elder except on the evidence。
or two or three witnesses."。
Again, he's not making up new rules here.。
These are handed out from the Old Testament days, where he's saying, "If there is a complaint。
against an elder, there have to be at least two or three witnesses who bring this charge。
together."。
What is that?。
That's essentially just an effective deterrent against gossiping, against the gossipers,。
or against...。
It stops personal vendettas.。
So if there genuinely is a problem with a pastor, if there genuinely is a problem with。
me, then you go to them with two or three people for accountability purposes, and then。
you hold that elder accountable.。
Now in the event where the elder actually is in the wrong, they should repent.。
But he's saying if they don't, then you've got to rebuke them in public.。
Now why public?。
Because the role of a leader is a public office.。
So if someone is in a leadership role, then they need to be rebuked publicly as well.。
Why?。
Because, again, so you can warn others.。
So you can set the standard for the whole community.。
Why?。
Because once again, the church needed to be in a state of purity, not to have any corruption.。
It was in its early stages.。
Can you imagine if a church was already corrupt from the very beginning?。
It wouldn't survive.。
It wouldn't outlive the Roman Empire.。
But yet it did, because its elders were called to uphold truth and to lead in purity.。
And then he tells Timothy, "You yourself, just keep pure.。
Keep pure in the sense of completely have your mind fully devoted to the Lord, and don't。
mix in, don't compromise."。
Because the first thing is indictment, and the second thing is appointment.。
He's saying, "Don't be hasty in the laying of hands."。
What is he talking about?。
He's saying, "Don't rush in appointing elders."。
And he talks about this in chapter three.。
He's saying, "Hey, if there are recent converts, don't suddenly make them overseers.。
Don't suddenly make them elders, lest they be puffed up with conceit and fall into condemnation."。
He's saying, "Recent converts, they're not there yet."。
And then he finishes this chapter with this interesting part in verse 24, "The sins of。
some people are conspicuous, going before them to judgment, but the sins of others appear。
later."。
He's saying, "You don't know someone's true colors until they've been tested.。
So be patient.。
Don't rush.。
Take your time.。
Let the challenges of the day reveal their character.。
But only then do you appoint them.。
So don't rush."。
Timothy, I know you're under a lot of stress.。
I know you're under a lot of pressure, but don't rush in bringing people because you。
need to bring the right people.。
You don't just need to bring more people.。
So he keeps lifting this high charge, this higher calling to Timothy.。
And so no wonder he's a little bit stressed.。
So love everyone like family.。
Love everyone in need.。
Love those in need, and love everyone who leads.。
He lays down this more specific guideline for Timothy in this chapter with the whole。
goal of helping him to lead.。
So what does that mean for us?。
I guess the first question that we really need to reflect on is, do we, again, do we。
treat each other as family?。
Is there someone in your life right now, maybe you're sitting right next to them, that actually。
you need to treat more like family?。
Because this church is a family.。
And we, for better or for worse, are stuck with each other.。
But we are family, not just because we're trying to commit ourselves to each other to。
make something grow here, but we are family because of what Jesus did.。
Because of Jesus dying on the cross for us.。
We may not be blood family, but we are bound by the blood of Christ.。
And because of that, we can look across at our neighbor here and go, "You are my brother.。
You are my sister because of what Christ did."。
So we must love everyone like family.。
In a church here, when you walked in, it is true, you don't have friends.。
You have family.。
I think we, as a church here in Hong Kong, need to hear that loud and clear.。
Because I think so many of our problems comes from the fact that we don't see each other。
as family.。
And if we did, it would change the way we work.。
And love those in need.。
Why?。
Because it's what Jesus did.。
In Luke chapter 4, when Jesus announces himself into ministry, he goes to a synagogue, he。
opens up a scroll from the book of Isaiah, and he reads, "The Spirit of the Lord is upon。
me to proclaim good news."。
To who?。
To the poor, to the captive, to the oppressed, to the blind.。
You look at Jesus' life and what he did and the time he spent with people, it was those。
people in need.。
It was the people that we would struggle to spend time with.。
And that's exactly what he did.。
Because he did it, we must too.。
Because he, as we sang, he is the cornerstone.。
Everything that we do has to be based on what he did.。
And so we have to love those in need.。
So I ask you now, brothers and sisters, are there people that God has placed in your life。
surrounding you who are actually in need, who can do with you stepping in to their lives。
as family and looking after them?。
And to love those who lead, to pray for your pastors, to pray for your leaders, to pray。
for your parents, to pray for the people who God has placed above you.。
Let us commit to loving everyone.。
And practically speaking, each of us here have a different situation to express that。
love out.。
But I hope even from looking at this chapter today, we can see some of these principles,。
that we can see the heart of God in how he wants us to operate as a church, which is。
to be family.。
Not friends, not acquaintances, not fellow attendees, but to be family.。
Let's pray.。
Father we come before you being able to say that very thing, that you are our father.。
Because of what Jesus did, we have now been adopted into your family.。
And I pray that you would just forgive us for not treating each other like family.。
Just like the passage that Gabriel read for us from Ephesians, that we are one body, all。
under your headship.。
So I pray that you would remind us of that day by day.。
That we would celebrate each other's triumphs.。
We would stand beside each other in the valleys.。
So that we would be as one, just as you prayed.。
That we would be as one so that the world will know that you exist.。
Holy Spirit I also pray that you would show us the people that you've placed around us。
who are actually in need.。
Give us the wisdom on how to love them.。
How to love them in a way that's filled with wisdom, filled with discernment.。
With the goal of facilitating and growing their godliness, drawing them closer to you.。
We pray for those who you've placed in leadership positions above us.。
With humble hearts we are grateful for them.。
We pray Lord that you would show us how to appreciate them, how to respect them, how。
to submit to them, and how to support them.。
Lord we know what your word says, that we are to treat each other as family.。
And I pray that you would give us the strength and the opportunities to live that out.。
We thank you.。
It's in your son's name we pray.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
