It's so glad, I'm so glad to be here to be speaking with you tonight.。
Now I just want to show you this.。
I was going to wear this tonight when you were all here to prevent the virus from spreading,。
but apparently you are now one screen away, so this will not be needed.。
I will just put this on the side.。
This is a situation where we're least expected, but we're glad that everybody is taking precautions.。
So I'm really glad tonight to be speaking with you on a message on how we can partner。
with God.。
Now I don't know about you, but I've been facing problems every now and then, and I。
think it's just part of life that we have problems and troubles.。
But the thing is, how is it that we can partner with God so that He can help us in those situations?。
And for some of us, we might be going through a hard time because we have a relationship。
problem or we might not be able to find a job and we're having a financial problem.。
And for other people, we might be having problems in our family.。
And every now and then we might come into a crisis and we just want to call out to God.。
But how is it that we can work with God so that God can work through us and that we can。
see His miracles?。
So today we're going to find out the secrets on how to do that.。
Now we're going to be studying Judges chapter four and chapter five.。
Now chapter four and five, they're actually telling the same story, except in chapter。
four, it's a narration.。
So it tells us a victorious battle that God has fought for the people of Israelites.。
Now chapter five is where Deborah, the judge at that time, sings a song of victory because。
of this great battle that God has performed.。
So today we're going to look at both of them so that we can draw the details from both。
chapters and get the full picture.。
Now so it all started in chapter four where we find that Israelites, again, the people。
there were doing things that were evil in the sight of the Lord.。
And so the Lord gave them over to their enemies, the Canaanites.。
And now there was a king called King Jabin and he lives, I think I'm going to try to。
use this, he lives right here at Hazar.。
He lives very north.。
And now he has a commander, a military commander.。
His name is Seseira and he lives right here in Hiroshihagumi.。
And so what we find is that they are powerful because they have 900 chariots of iron and。
a very, very great army.。
Now the Israelites, because the Lord has given them over to their enemies, has been oppressed。
by them for over 20 years now.。
And so there were cruelties and they were oppressed in such a way that the roads all。
along here, they were robbers and that people would just take plunders from the Israelites.。
And at the same time, the villages were no more, meaning that they were unwalled villages。
and people had no crops and had no agriculture at all.。
So that was a time of great oppression.。
And what we find is that God has Deborah being the judge and she sits here, there is a palm。
tree named after her.。
It's called the Palm of Deborah.。
And it actually is situated between Bethel and Ramah.。
We're going to find that these will actually come into play where the geographic of things。
are.。
So we're just going to learn a little bit about where everything's happening.。
So now in this situation, we find that for some reason, a woman was the judge.。
And so she calls out to the Israelites military commander and his name is right here.。
So what is it that we...。
So Deborah here, she calls out and she says, "Barak, you are our military commander, come.。
Come because I have a word that I need to tell you."。
And so let's read it together.。
Here it says, "She sent and summoned Barak, the son of Abinoam and from Kadesh, Naphtali,。
and said to him, 'Has not the Lord, the God of Israel commanded you?。
Go gather your men at Mount Tabor, taking 10,000 from the people of Naphtali and the。
people of Zebulun.。
And I will draw out Seseirah, the general of Jabin's army to meet by the river Kishon。
with his chariots and his troops.。
I will give him into your hands.'"。
Now from these two verses, we can see that it was all God's plan to deliver the people。
of Israelites.。
And there was a great game plan.。
I mean, if we look at this, we see that this area is where the battlefield would be.。
And what we find is that Deborah tells him, "This is the game plan, okay?。
God has it all written out for you.。
All you need to do is carry it out because God already said that he will give your enemies。
into your hands."。
And this is what they were supposed to do.。
They were supposed to gather men from Naphtali and Zebulun and then travel to Kadesh.。
And then they're going to go to Mount Tabor where they're going to fight with Seseirah,。
the general of the enemy.。
And they're going to come here to this point where the Lord will give them over to the。
Israelites.。
Now this all sounds great, right?。
So now if you are Barak, what would you be thinking?。
"Oh, right.。
I just got a word from God and now I even got a confirmation from the judge, Deborah,。
and she's also a prophetess.。
So I think it's going to be a sure win."。
But somehow Barak didn't really react like that.。
So let's read and see how he reacted.。
And he said, "If you will go with me, I will go.。
But if you will not go with me, I will not go."。
And she said, "I will surely go with you.。
Nonetheless, the road on which you're going will not lead you to glory.。
For the Lord will sell Seseirah into the hand of a woman."。
So Deborah rose and he went with Barak to Kadesh.。
Now what we find is that for some reason, even after the confirmation from God, it was。
not enough for Barak to take actions.。
Now there is something very, very different about Deborah and Barak, right?。
We can find a few differences.。
One is a male, one is a female, and one is a military general, while the other one is。
a prophet and a judge.。
And we find that there's also something very critical that sets them apart.。
And do you know what that is?。
I can't really hear you from across the screen, but I'll give you the answer.。
It is faith.。
It is faith that sets them apart.。
So I want to bring us to a very first point, is that if we want to partner with God, if。
we want Him to be in our lives and help us with the situation that we're going through,。
we must have faith in God.。
Now as we said earlier, we found out that Barak actually realizes what God's word was,。
but he thinks that it's not good enough.。
God's word alone for Barak was not good enough.。
He needed more, and even a confirmation was not enough for him.。
He needed even more.。
What did he need?。
He needed something that he could see with his eyes.。
He needed visual evidence.。
Now on the other hand, we see that Deborah believes in God and believes in His words。
alone.。
And she also risks her life because when Barak says, "Will you go with me?"。
She said, "Okay, I'll go with you, but you just won't get the glory."。
So she puts her life at risk for God's word.。
And also, she doesn't need physical evidence.。
Now what we notice is that there are these two people, one with faith, that's Deborah,。
Barak without, and we're asking ourselves, why is it that these two people under the。
same circumstances, they've been oppressed in the same ways, but one has faith and one。
doesn't?。
Because if we find out why, maybe it will also help us have faith.。
Because we hear people talk about have faith in God all the time, but how is it that we。
can do it?。
Now the Bible doesn't specify, but we can look at the clues and find out what makes。
Barak not courageous and what makes Deborah having all this faith.。
Now let's have a look, because in previous verses, we already saw that it said that the。
people of Israel, how did they do?。
They did evil in the eyes of the Lord.。
What else did they do?。
Because they did evil, the Lord sold them to their enemy, King Jabin.。
And when the new gods were chosen, war was at gates.。
So what is it that we realize is, Barak, who is part of the Israelites, has gone through。
this experience, where yeah, they prayed to God, but they were doing evil at that time.。
And because they did evil, God gave them into their enemies.。
And so they've been experiencing this God that's not fighting for them, but they've。
been experiencing a God that seemed to be distant and leaving them alone.。
And so what we find is that Barak, having done evil, experiences a Lord that sells them。
to their enemies.。
And because of that, they have no faith in God and His words.。
Now on the contrary, we're going to find that Deborah is not the same, even though they。
were under the same situation.。
Now remember, Deborah, she is actually a prophetess and a judge.。
What that means was she had access to the book of laws, and she would know what is it。
that God likes, and she would live by them.。
Now how do we know that she lived by them?。
Well, let's see, remember how Barak reacted?。
He actually said that if you go with me, I will go.。
What is that saying?。
That's saying that Deborah has such a good reputation of God's presence with her, that。
he's willing to even risk his life.。
So her reputation is telling us that she has been following God and God's presence was。
apparent in her life.。
And at the same time, we also saw from scripture that it actually told us that she was able。
to judge the men of Israel, and men and people of Israel were actually going to her.。
So it means that because of the presence of God in her life, she was also able to teach。
people about who God was and how they should live their life.。
So in here, we also see that in chapter five, it says, "I, Deborah, arose as a mother in。
Israel."。
Now what do mothers do?。
Mothers discipline their children, they bring them to the right path.。
And so here we see that the reason that Deborah has so much faith is because she has been。
doing good.。
She has been doing things the way that God wanted the people to do.。
And not only that, she teaches other people to do that when she judged for them.。
And we also see because of that, the Lord has been with her.。
And it was apparent, so apparent that people saw the presence of God in her life.。
And because of that, she has faith in God.。
And so faith is like a muscle that we have, that we can exercise.。
And if we are also like Deborah, if we choose to be like her, we can also exercise our faith。
muscle.。
And we can do that by following what God says.。
And whenever we follow what God says and God's goodness comes into our life, we actually。
gain more faith.。
And if we store up so much faith that when crisis come into our lives, we would have。
enough faith to just believe in God's word.。
And so from this, we see the very first thing that we as partners of God need to do is to。
have faith through doing good.。
Now another thing that we looked at is, we haven't looked at, we're going to look at。
now is that as they were moving north, because Deborah was going with Barak to north to have。
this battle, we realized that in chapter five, it actually tells us that she calls on to。
the different tribes.。
Because as she moves from here, Ephraim, all the way up to where the battlefield is,。
that along the way, they were singing a song to let people know, come on out, come on out,。
because the Lord is fighting for us.。
We need you, come on out.。
But we realized that not all of them responded to God.。
And not all of them responded to Deborah and Barak's song.。
So I have highlighted for us that all of the one in Magneta, they're the ones that responded。
to their calling.。
And the ones in blue are the ones that didn't.。
And they were too busy tending their flocks, too busy fighting off other enemies, or just。
simply for no reason.。
And the Bible tells us so.。
And so it brings us to our second point.。
If we want to partner with God, the very thing that we need to do is we need to also take。
on our responsibilities.。
Now we have responsibilities, just like these tribes.。
When God is fighting for us, we have a responsibility to react.。
We have a responsibility to respond to his call of action.。
Now I know that a lot of times we just want to sit on our couch and wait for God to do。
things for us.。
But God is not here.。
He's not in the business of cultivating a lot of lazy Christians.。
But he is in the business of partnering with us.。
Think about this.。
I mean, God can just send a plague down and immediately all the enemies would be gone.。
Why spend so much time gathering people?。
And it's not even a lot, it's 10,000 people.。
So why is it that he's doing so much?。
It's because he wants our partnership.。
How easy would it be for him to just do that?。
Now we have a Cantonese saying that when you go to someone for dinner and you want to bring。
something, we usually bring a chicken or something for the dinner buffet, right?。
So there's a saying that someone will bring the chicken and I will bring the soy sauce,。
okay?。
Which means that this is pretty much what's happening.。
Even though this is a partnership that we have with God, but really he's bringing the。
chicken, he's doing all the work, but he just wants us to participate, bring the soy sauce.。
And so when we partner with him, it's important that we take on our responsibilities.。
And if we do that, we're going to see God acting out for us.。
And so this is a saying I really like, which is, "We can't do anything if God is not here,。
but God won't do anything if we're not here."。
Okay, I want to say that again.。
We can't do anything if God is not here, but God won't do anything if we're not here, because。
God wants our partnership.。
This is a relationship that we have with him.。
And then so the third thing that I want to tell you is that while we partner with God,。
this is my favorite point, by the way.。
My favorite point is the third point, because I get to see the salvation of the Lord.。
This is the part where after we've put in our faith in what God said, and this is the。
part where we even took on our responsibilities and did what we were supposed to, God has。
the battle, and he's going to deliver us, because he knew how the ending would be even。
before anything happened.。
So the third part for us to really partner with God is just to see how he's going to。
save us.。
And it's so awesome to watch that.。
And in this situation where the tribes were fighting at the River of Kishon, what we find。
is that all of a sudden, even though the River of Kishon in that time of the year was a small。
stream, okay, but all of a sudden there was a cloud burst in a month that rain was unheard。
of.。
And all of a sudden the heaven rained.。
And what we find is that in this verse we see, "From heaven the stars fought.。
From their courses they fought against Cicera.。
The torrent Kishon swept them away.。
The ancient torrent, the torrent Kishon, marched on my soul."。
And so what we see here is that the Lord actually opened up the sky and it started to rain in。
a season that rain was impossible.。
And not only like a few drops of rain, it was a torrent.。
It was enough that the ground that the chariots were on became muddy and that the wheels were。
all stuck in the mud and we can no longer go.。
And so the Israelites were able to take the lives of those army and their enemies.。
And so what we find here is that God is here to fight for us because he loves us.。
And in any situation, he wants to be a part of our lives.。
He wants to take care of our problems.。
But it's not all the time that we are actually partnering with him.。
A lot of times we're just on our own.。
So I just want to share a quick story about an event that happened last week.。
So last week I was told, at least my mom tells me, that there's some family businesses that。
I need to take care of.。
And I was like, "Okay, well this is not something that I really am looking forward to."。
The reason being is because the task required that I would need to talk to much older men。
and they were a lot craftier than I was.。
And I was definitely not looking forward to it.。
And so I actually sat down, because I have two sisters and they're not in Hong Kong,。
and so this is me and my mom, all females.。
And so I was thinking to myself, "All right, what kind of guy friends do I have?。
Maybe I'll ask that person to help.。
Nope.。
And so I went through a list of people and I realized they didn't quite fit, as in it。
wasn't quite right for them to help me.。
And so I suddenly remembered these two chapters, because I was also preparing for this sermon.。
And I asked myself, "Michelle, what is it that you're depending on?。
Are you depending on human beings, people?。
Are you depending on people who are more skillful than you are?。
Or are you going to depend on God and God alone?"。
And I just remembered, I said, "Yes, of course, God and God alone."。
And suddenly I just started to remember that God loves me so much.。
Not that I forgot, but it was a very deliberate thought that God loves me so much that he's。
going to provide for me.。
He's going to open the ways for me.。
And so the next day, even though I was a little bit scared, I texted the people that I needed。
to talk to, because I thought I need to fulfill my responsibility.。
I need to do, I need to act in a faithful way after I know and have faith in God.。
I still needed to do something.。
So I texted them and we had a chance to meet up and negotiated on some terms.。
And surprisingly, I have to say surprisingly, that God delivered.。
He delivered just like the way he delivered the Israelites, because they were supposed。
to be these old fox, but then they were like sheeps somehow.。
And at the same time, they agreed to pretty much all the terms that I wanted to, which。
is very, very surprising for me.。
So you see, the story actually didn't end here for the Israelites, but I wanted to use。
my story to share with you that when we put our faith there, when we also act on it, that。
God will open doors in a way that we least expected.。
And when I say least expected, I want us to continue on the story where we see that Seseira。
was actually one of the only men that got away from that event when God gave them a。
victorious battle.。
And he was the only one that ran away and he went to a tent.。
And this tent was owned by a lady called Jeho.。
Now Jeho was actually supposed to be a family ally of the Kenyanites, but God used her in。
a way that helped the Israelites to get rid of this general.。
Now how did he do it?。
So he asked, he asked Jeho if he could take cover in refuge in her tent.。
And so she says, yes.。
And she says, turn around so I can cover you with this rug.。
And then he asked, could I have some water?。
And she says, yes, have some milk.。
They were curdled milk.。
And then he says, if anyone asks for me, just say that there's no one here.。
And she's like, okay.。
So she goes to her toolbox and she actually takes out a peg and also a hammer.。
Because in those days, women actually put up and they took down tents.。
So she had these tools in her female toolbox.。
And so she took it over and actually while he was sleeping, she has assassinated him.。
And so what we find is that who would have imagined that the outcome of Seseira would。
be in a woman's hand other than God?。
And who would have thought that this turn of events, which seems so unpredictable and。
impossible to happen.。
And that's the point that I wanted to get is that when we look towards God for the victorious。
battle, he will open the skies like he did for the Israelites, just for you.。
And he's going to have a chain of events that doesn't even make sense.。
And it's impossible.。
How would a female kill an assassin, a general?。
That's impossible.。
And yet she just took out some random tools and completed the job.。
So I just wanted to say that God loves us and he wants to help us with every single。
situation.。
And if we too will fight alongside with God, and if we will partner with him, putting our。
faith in him, exercising our faith muscles, and if we will take on the part that we are。
responsible for, we will see God delivering us in our situations.。
Now those situations may not happen exactly the way that we have hoped or we'd like, but。
we do know that God is in charge.。
And if he is in charge, he's able to bring us to an outcome that is for us and not against。
us.。
And so what does that mean for us today?。
Well, if we want to train up our faith muscles, we can start off by remember what Deborah。
did.。
She did good.。
And when she did good, she saw God and she got more faith.。
And so we can just read a passage from the Bible each day or even a verse and we'll say,。
you know what, Father, I'm willing to follow that passage.。
I'm willing to live that out today.。
If it says, forgive your enemy, and I have someone I really hate from work, I'm willing。
to do that.。
And if you say to forgive, and I'm fighting with my spouse, I'm willing to reconcile that。
day and that moment.。
And the more we do it, the more faith we build up.。
And so when things happen, like maybe we're facing coronavirus now and we're very nervous。
about it, or maybe you're looking for a job now and you look out, you're like, this is。
the hardest time to find a job.。
What shall I do?。
And in those moments, if we also act on it, take on our responsibilities, maybe we'll。
send out a resume every day.。
Maybe we'll even write a unique cover letter for each one.。
Or maybe for those of us who want to protect ourselves from the virus, then we're going。
to take as much precautions as we can.。
And this is a time where when we take on the responsibilities and we do our best, we're。
going to see God fighting for us.。
So friends today, I just wanted to encourage you because I've had so many instances where。
God and I partnered together, and again and again, He delivered me.。
And I just want to say that He's no longer a God that's far away that I can't reach.。
Through all these things that God and I have been together, actually, He's very, very close.。
He's so close to me that in each of my day, I can tell Him my struggles and He would guide。
me to do what is good, what is good for me.。
And so I just wanted to encourage you, if you take nothing away today, that if there's。
one thing that can build your faith muscle, and that would be read a passage a day and。
act on it, build your faith so that when that faith grows to be so big that you're able。
to believe in God's Word in whatever circumstances that you have.。
Maybe the circumstances that you're facing is as big as the 900 chariots of iron.。
And maybe that thing has been with you for over 20 years and you can't seem to get rid。
of that problem.。
But you know what?。
Our God is much more powerful than that.。
He can take care of all those things.。
He can open up the skies for you.。
And He's willing to have this unexpected chain of events just to help you.。
So friends, really want to encourage you that we'll take faith in Him.。
So let us pray together for the God of the universe, our friend, to help us.。
Dear Heavenly Father, just want to thank you for being a God that never forsakes us.。
Even when we did not follow your ways, Father, you were compassionate and you would find。
ways to reach out to us again.。
You would give people like Deborah, you would give the Bible to us, you would give friends。
and church to bring us back so that even if we fell away from you, Father, that you would。
bring us back.。
And so Father, today we just pray that you would help us to build our faith muscle so。
that we have so much faith in you that whenever we're faced with crisis and troubles in our。
lives, that we will not look onto those trouble, but we'll look onto you, God, and say that。
you're always our help, you're always our friend.。
Father, help us so that we can partner with you.。
We just can't wait to see the works that you will do for us.。
Thank you, Father.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
[Music]。
