Hi everyone, we're really glad to be back from last week's service.。
Special thanks again to the Vine team, St. Andrew's Church, and our dear friend Kevin。
from Montemarc Church.。
Let me just thank you for their really hard work.。
So this week we're really excited to have Pastor John's message on fasting, and I'm。
just going to pass everyone on to the worship team.。
We hope you have a good message and that the Lord's message really touches you this week.。
Alright, hi all.。
Welcome and I'm excited that you can come and join us for worship.。
So I just encourage you all just to really allow God to speak to your heart, wherever。
you're going through now and however this whole situation the last few months has been。
for you.。
I just encourage you now to just allow God to speak to you.。
Allow yourselves to get into a place to worship Him through the good and the bad.。
We have a God who loves us, who cares for us, and He's good in all circumstances.。
So I just encourage you to really just press into Him.。
Just if that means sitting, standing, however that is for you, just to allow yourself to。
just open your heart fully to Him as we worship Him.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Yeah, thanks Paul and the worship team.。
I have a new face to introduce to you this week and I'm so excited about this.。
It's our new pastor, Michelle Loh, who has joined the team this week.。
Michelle, welcome to the team.。
Thank you so much, Pastor John.。
Tell us a little bit about yourself.。
Sure.。
Well, at first I just want to say I'm really glad to be here, to be able to join this team.。
I've heard so many great things about you guys.。
Well, a little bit about myself is I've been working in the finance field for a while,。
but after God has radically transformed me, I just really have a passion to grow Christians。
and also to disciple those that really want to be strong in their faith.。
So since then, I've prepared myself to be working at the church and, well, here I am now.。
Good.。
What is your heart and what do you see that God has called you to KFC for?。
Yeah, it's a great question.。
For me, my heart really is for Christians to be strong because I think throughout my life,。
there was a long time where I was a weak Christian and really that's an oxymoron。
because they should not stay together, those two words.。
I've learned throughout the years that God can do so much in our lives。
and our lives can be so much more abundant when we are in Christ.。
And because I've been through that, I really want to help others go through that as well.。
So that's really what's on my heart.。
Would you mind if we prayed for you?。
Yeah.。
And wherever you're watching at the moment, if you could maybe stretch out your hand towards Michelle.。
We're going to welcome her into the team and to pray a blessing upon her.。
Father God, we thank you for the provision of Michelle.。
We thank you, Lord, for what you've done in her life.。
And Lord, we just look forward in expectation to the things that you're going to do in our church, in our city.。
We pray a blessing, Lord, that you would equip her by your Holy Spirit to do the things that you have set before her.。
And we just pray for success.。
And we pray, Lord, that she will have joy in the journey as we work together for your kingdom.。
In Jesus' name, and everybody said, "Amen."。
Here are the notices for today.。
We're doing ZOOP Alpha, and it's going to be starting on May 15th on the evening.。
It's going to be a great opportunity for you to invite your friends who are interested in God and learning more about the faith.。
So please invite your friends, and you can scan the QR code for more information.。
We would love to get in touch with you.。
Next, we have an outreach coming up on May 12th with the Christian Concern for the Homeless Association.。
And you can email kfci@gongfuk.org for details.。
We are looking for canto speakers that can outreach to the homeless.。
And lastly, we're having a citywide corporate fast and a special KFC devotional, May 28th to the 30th.。
Fear and fear have gripped our city.。
As God's people, it is time to stand and fast for our city, our home, our people.。
This is a spiritual battle.。
The enemy wants to kill, steal, and destroy.。
But remember, our God is for us.。
Our God is for us. Let's stand to the gap of fasting and prayer to cover the city.。
Oh Lord, let faith arise. Let faith arise. In Jesus' name.。
Now let's pass the time to Pastor James for scripture reading.。
Isaiah 58. True and false fasting.。
Cry aloud. Do not hold back. Lift up your voice like a trumpet and declare to my people their transgression, to the house of Jacob their sins.。
Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways as if they were a nation that did righteousness and did not forsake the judgment of their God.。
They ask of me righteous judgments. They delight to draw near to God.。
Why have we fasted and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves and you take no knowledge of it?。
Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure and oppress all your workers.。
Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist.。
Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to be heard on high.。
Is such the fast that I choose a day for a person to humble himself?。
Is it to bow down his head like a reed and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him?。
Will you call this a fast and a day acceptable to the Lord?。
Is not this the fast that I choose, to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free and to break every yoke?。
Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless pouring to your house?。
When you see the naked, to cover him and not to hide yourself from your own flesh, then shall your light break forth like the dawn and your healing shall spring up speedily.。
Your righteousness shall go before you.。
The glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard.。
Then you shall call and the Lord will answer.。
You shall cry and he will say, 'Here I am.'。
If you take away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger and speaking wickedness,。
if you pour yourself out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in the darkness and your gloom be as the noonday.。
And the Lord will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scattered places and make your bones strong.。
And you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water whose waters do not fail.。
And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt.。
You shall raise up the foundations of many generations.。
You shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in.。
This is the word of the Lord.。
And now I'd like to pass the time over to Pastor John to give us the word.。
[Silence]。
Hi Church.。
I'm so excited about what God is doing in our church and in our city.。
The combined service last week really touched my heart.。
And I know for many of you too.。
And Johnny's already told us that the Church of Hong Kong is going to join together as one to fast for our city.。
We fast for two reasons.。
One, we love Hong Kong.。
And secondly, we love God.。
And it is so good that we as Gong Fuk Church are joined together.。
Three congregations, English, Cantonese and Mandarin, to do a devotional together and to pray together on the day of Pentecost.。
I remember very few church sermons on fasting.。
In some quarters fasting has been tarred with a brush of legalism.。
Maybe a reaction to abuses over the centuries.。
But I believe that that has caused the church to forfeit an intimacy with God that is rightfully ours.。
So let's put that right.。
Following the combined service, I believe this church and the Church of Hong Kong is preparing the ground to step into a new season.。
I know I say this every week, but I for one, I'm excited.。
Now, since Jesus is our role model, let's look at the first works of Jesus in Luke chapter 4.。
I start from verse 1.。
Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the desert, where for forty days he was tempted by the devil.。
He ate nothing during those days, and at the end of them he was hungry.。
Jesus was hungry. Note, not thirsty.。
Therefore it's safe to conclude that for forty days he only drank water.。
Now note, he was full of the Holy Spirit. Jesus was filled with the Holy Spirit before being driven into the wilderness.。
And we know the story. He withstood Satan's temptations.。
But how could he do it?。
Forty days, just drinking water.。
Luke 4.14 will let you into the secret.。
Luke tells us Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Spirit.。
In the power of the Spirit.。
Now note the difference.。
Verse 1. Jesus was led by the Holy Spirit.。
Verse 14. After forty days of fasting, where he defeated Satan, he was operating in the power of the Holy Spirit.。
I believe this is very important to us as we approach the Feast of Pentecost.。
Church, there is a clear difference between being filled with the Holy Spirit and operating in the power of the Holy Spirit.。
Something transformed Jesus from being a Spirit-filled man to a man walking in the power of the Spirit.。
What about us?。
For us, being filled with the Spirit does not mean that we are ready to move in the fullness of our calling of power in God.。
We need to submit to the discipline of the Holy Spirit.。
During that time, God will disciple us in prayer, in fasting, in skillful use of his word.。
The result is this.。
We are released in the power of the Holy Spirit to do his will.。
Fasting is, we believe, an important key to go beyond the infilling of the Spirit to tap the power of the Spirit for us and for our church.。
The aim of this sermon is that we all clearly see that fasting helps release the power of God in our lives.。
Now, let's be careful.。
Fasting does not earn any more of the grace of God.。
But we contend it does facilitate the flowing of the Spirit through the dissolving, the removing of the junk in our lives.。
Fasting is one of the most misunderstood subjects in the whole Bible.。
And that's sad, as the Bible tells us of the incredible benefits.。
Fasting is mentioned more than 50 times in the Bible.。
Isaiah chapter 58, which James just read, is a chapter on fasting.。
We suggest you read that chapter and meditate on it.。
Now, the background is Isaiah is warning the Israelites, don't abuse fasting.。
He says, "You said, 'Why have we fasted?' they said, 'and you've not seen it.。
Why have you humbled ourselves and you haven't noticed?'"。
And they say, "God, I've been fasting. Weren't you watching?"。
God says on the day of your fasting, you do as you please.。
You exploit all your workers.。
Your fasting ends in quarreling and strife and in striking each other with wicked feasts.。
You cannot fast as you do today and expect your voice to be heard on high.。
Strong words.。
God then lists 12 blessings of the fast I have chosen.。
I repeat, I invite you to read Isaiah 58.。
We will be doing so as a church during our devotional.。
It talks about revelation, healing and wholeness, righteousness, the presence of God, answered prayer,。
continued guidance, contentment, strength, refreshing like a spring, work that endures,。
raising up of the future generations and restorations.。
I like that.。
But what I want to focus on this evening is the question, 'why?'。
Why do we fast?。
Well, I'm going to give you nine good reasons to fast.。
Firstly, we fast in obedience to God's word.。
Fasting is deeply ingrained in God's word.。
It's mentioned 56 times, both in the Old Testament and the New Testament.。
It is a tool of successful leaders.。
Joel 2.12 says, "Even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart, with fasting and weeping and mourning."。
And there are many other biblical references.。
Secondly, we fast to humble ourselves before God and to obtain His grace and His power.。
James 4.10 says, "Humble yourself before the Lord and He will lift you up."。
Fasting is humbling yourself before God.。
To overcome temptations in areas that stop us moving into God's power.。
Jesus did it in the wilderness.。
So can we.。
Thirdly, we fast to overcome temptations in areas that stop us moving into God's power.。
Do you have these?。
I do.。
Is there anyone here who doesn't?。
What are your barriers?。
Let's go back to Luke 4.。
Jesus in the wilderness, tempted by the devil.。
What did He do? Fast.。
The result? He came out in the power of the Holy Spirit.。
He whipped the devil and came forth in power.。
So can we.。
We fast to become unentangled from sin and to help others to do so.。
Jesus took away all the sins of the world at Calvary.。
Yet many of us have to deal with entangling sins that pop up time and time again.。
Church, God not only wants to defeat those in our lives, but He wants us to stand in the gap as intercessors for others.。
If there is a habit or a chronic sin.。
He wants us to take on the sin of others.。
You remember Daniel chapter 9.。
So I turned to the Lord God and pleaded with Him in prayer and petition, in fasting and in sackcloth and ashes.。
I prayed to the Lord my God and confessed.。
Oh Lord, the great and awesome God who keeps His covenant of love with all who love Him and obey His commands.。
We have sinned and done wrong.。
We have been wicked and have rebelled.。
We have turned away from Your commands and laws.。
Remember the man that prayed this prayer, Daniel, was described as the most righteous man in his generation.。
Number five, we feast to become weak so that God can become strong.。
By fasting you make a conscious decision and a choice that we demonstrate.。
By an outward act that you want God's power to flow through you and not your own power.。
You want God's answer, not yours.。
That's why God said to Paul, "My power is made perfect in your weakness."。
See what David says in the Psalm, Psalm 109.。
"My knees give way from fasting, my body is thin and gaunt."。
Not a good advertisement for fasting this.。
"I am the object of scorn from my accusers.。
When they see me they shake their heads.。
Help me, oh Lord, my God.。
Save me in accordance with Your love.。
Let them know that it is Your hand that You, oh Lord, have done it."。
Number six, we fast to attain God's support in order to accomplish His will.。
In the book of Acts, chapter 13, we read, "So after they had fasted and prayed, they placed their hands on them and sent them off.。
Then two of them, sent on their way by the Holy Spirit, went down to Seleucia and sailed from there to Cyprus."。
And in the next chapter, chapter 14, Paul and Barnabas appointed elders for them in each church.。
And with prayer and fasting, committed them to the Lord in whom they had put their trust.。
I find it fascinating that the leaders of Antioch fasted and prayed before they sent out Paul and Barnabas.。
Why?。
So leaders would make the right choice and the success of the mission.。
In the next chapter, we read Paul and Barnabas following the same pattern.。
We should do the same before major decisions and get God on our side.。
Number seven, we fast in times of crisis.。
I don't need to tell you. This is Hong Kong. This is the world.。
In 2020, we are in a time of crisis.。
Man has always turned to God in terms of crisis.。
Take the book of Esther, which we will study over the next few weeks.。
I want to ask you a question. When was the most critical time in the whole history of the Jewish nation?。
You might say, "Pastor John, it was the Holocaust when six million Jews were executed."。
And I say to you, though Hitler massacred six million Jews, many Jews survived in different parts of the world.。
In Esther's time, Haman was on the verge of wiping out the entire Jewish race.。
That's a crisis. The death warrant was already signed and chopped.。
When Esther risked her life and entered the king's presence and requested mercy and pardon for the Jewish people.。
We read Esther 4. We read this again in a few weeks. Then Esther sent this reply to Mordecai.。
Go gather all the Jews who are in Susa and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day.。
I and my maids will fast as you do. When this is done, I will go to the king.。
And even though it is against the law. And if I perish. I perish.。
Number eight, we fast to seek God's direction. The book of Ezra, we don't read that very often.。
Chapter eight. There by the Ahava canal, I proclaim a fast so that we might humble ourselves before our God。
and ask him for a safe journey for thousands of our children with our possessions.。
And then we read in Ezra 8.23. So we fasted and petitioned our God about this.。
And he answered our prayer. We know there are a lot of people in our church seeking God's direction for their life.。
Especially at the moment. When we need God's direction, when we're confused about which way we have to go.。
One of the best things we can do is to fast. This is especially true for personal relationships, i.e. a marriage partner or a possible career move.。
And lastly, but not least, we fast to obtain understanding and divine revelation.。
We as a church need revelation. We need understanding of matters. We need to understand situations or biblical truths.。
Jeremiah said in chapter 36, "So you go to the house of the Lord on the day of fasting and read to the people from the scroll the words of the Lord that you wrote as I dictated.。
Read to them all the people of Judah who come in from their towns."。
Sometimes the understanding comes as we fast. Sometimes later on.。
Fasting is both common in the Bible, both the Old Testament and the New Testament, and in church history.。
Jesus did it. Almost every great church leader over the centuries has done it.。
It has a close connection to church revival.。
Now this is important. Fasting is not to earn brownie points.。
Can I just say today, straight off, God will not love you anymore because you fast.。
You cannot earn brownie points with God.。
But it does make a connection to a supernatural God.。
Put simply, it clears out the pipe that connects us to God's anointing.。
You are humbling yourself. You see your priorities more clearly. You see balance returned to your life.。
You see selfish ambition and pride washed away.。
You will be more sensitive to God's Holy Spirit.。
Your areas of weakness and susceptibility will rise to the surface so that God can deal with them.。
But I know the question you're asking. How? How do I fast?。
I sincerely believe that God wants to strip away the mystery and shed his light on this wonderful and simple tool for triumph in our lives and in our church.。
Most problems concern the legalistic ideas of what a fast is and what a fast isn't.。
The good news? This is not a legalistic fast.。
No one is going to tell you what to do.。
No one is going to tell you how to fast. It is between you and God.。
You ask the Holy Spirit to tell you.。
But we are going to try and help and encourage you.。
We are going to attempt to answer some FAQs.。
Firstly, it's not a diet.。
Although a by-product may be weight loss.。
What are the things to avoid? Acidic juices. Orange, grapefruit. If you have them, dilute them 1 to 5.。
Apple juice is good, but watch sugar. Dilute it. Yuck.。
Other things? I suggest abstaining from meat and/or desserts.。
Abstain from TV, computer, Facebook, email, music.。
And give the time to God.。
Spend the time in the Word of God.。
Get your face out of Facebook and get your face into the book.。
This leads to the next question. How do I spend the time?。
Pray. Seek God. Full stop.。
Please respect your body during fasting. Don't be cruel to your body.。
If you feel weak, sit down and rest. Regular water.。
You may need to amend your normal exercise. It's not the time to do the mackerel trail.。
But you are the boss.。
Tell your body, "I'm the boss."。
If your body says, "I'm hungry." You say, "Shut up."。
How do I start?。
Start small. In moderation.。
Just as you don't start jogging by running a marathon.。
We doubt whether a 21 or 40 day fast is the best way to begin fasting.。
It is just as scriptural to do a one day fast or even a partial fast.。
As we have said, generally everyone can go one day without food,。
while drinking water or some other liquid.。
We are planning a three day fast. A three day fast is a good way to kick off fasting.。
How do I break the fast?。
Not with a huge juicy steak and extra fries.。
Or four big mac meals.。
You will hurt yourself. You need wisdom.。
How do we come into the fast? Not with a big blowout tonight because I'm fasting tomorrow.。
How do we break the fast? We suggest small helpings of fresh fruit, salad, coleslaw, or some yogurt.。
What are the different types of fast?。
The first one is a complete fast.。
Eat or drink nothing. Not normally recommended.。
We are not recommending this.。
The body can normally only understand three days.。
This is a fast of desperation, all out hunger and urgency.。
If you ever feel called to fast in this way, come and tell us first.。
The second is what I call a normal fast.。
Suggested for those who have fasted before.。
Like Jesus, total abstention from food with a regular intake of water.。
I suggest distilled water. It flushes the poison out of your system.。
A squeeze of lemon juice often helps the taste.。
Or herbal tea.。
Avoid tea, coffee and other caffeinated drinks.。
A partial, sometimes called a Daniel fast.。
Recommended if you have never fasted before.。
At least at first.。
If you look at the book of Daniel, Daniel ate no meat.。
But did eat veggies and did drink water.。
God will honour this as much as he will a total fast.。
Daniel 10 says, "At this time I, Daniel, mourned for three weeks.。
I ate no choice food, no meat or wine touched my lips.。
And I used no lotions at all until the three weeks were over."。
This is a model for our three day fast.。
No meat, wine or fine foods.。
But read my lips.。
Be led by the Holy Spirit.。
And lastly a corporate or a group fast.。
There is great power when a group or a nation fasts together.。
And that is why we are planning as a church and as a city to do so.。
A corporate fast turned God's wrath from Nineveh in the story of Jonah.。
Ezra called one.。
Esther called one.。
Jehoshaphat called one.。
Joel beseeched the people to call one.。
And the Hong Kong church is calling one.。
I want to finish by talking about the great power of the corporate fast.。
I've called it the great crescendo.。
Matthew 18 says, "Again I tell you if two of you on earth agree on anything you ask for, it will be done for you by my Father in heaven."。
What we are is I believe a great orchestra.。
We saw that online this weekend as so many people came together.。
Listen to a violin play. It's beautiful.。
Listen to a trumpet play. It's stirring.。
When all the instruments play together, it's a symphony.。
When you fast and pray, you are like that violin. Beautiful.。
When we fast and pray together, we are like a great orchestra in harmony with great power.。
We believe that God is calling this church and this city to great things in 2020 and beyond.。
Church, and this is important.。
We believe that as we come together in harmony, firstly with each other, and secondly with God's Holy Spirit, then things will change.。
See this as a blessing, not an inconvenience.。
Ask the Holy Spirit to lead you in the type of fast you undertake.。
Don't get too hung up on this.。
What is important is your heart.。
Johnny and Michelle are going to come and lead us in prayer right now.。
Now let's go into a time of prayer.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity to fast.。
I pray that Lord, you would guide us by your Holy Spirit how to fast and what we should do during that fasting.。
I pray that this fasting would lead us closer towards you.。
That it would create within us physical and spiritual discipline so that Lord we can focus more of our time and attention towards you.。
That you would become more and more a priority in our lives.。
And Lord, I pray that as we fast, that Lord you would speak to us personally.。
That you would meet us where we are.。
That you would open up the mysteries of your word to us Lord so that we can know you better.。
And that we can learn to love those around us better.。
Bless us Lord as we enter into this fast.。
In Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we just pray that your name be glorified at this time.。
We pray that as we come together to fast, that Father the city of Hong Kong may know that you are one true God.。
The only God that we could ever rely on.。
And also our Father who loves us.。
And Father we pray that as we fast over the three days, Father that the city of Hong Kong will come to know you.。
And Father we just pray with our hearts that you would touch and move Hong Kong.。
Because we hunger for you.。
So Father we just thank you for this time that we could come to you and just pray with our hearts.。
Because we want to see you. We want to see your glory manifested in Hong Kong.。
Thank you so much. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
[Music]。
Here I am, down on my knees again。
Surrendering all, surrendering all。
Find me here, Lord as you draw me near。
Desperate for you, desperate for you。
I surrender。
Enrich my soul with mercy and grace unfold。
Hunger and thirst, hunger and thirst。
With arms stretched wide, I know you hear my cry。
Speak to me now, speak to me now。
I surrender。
I want to know you more。
I surrender。
I want to know you more。
Before we cry out to you Lord。
Surrendering all to you。
Like a rushing wind。
Like a rushing wind。
Jesus breathes within。
Lord have you weighed, Lord have you weighed。
Amen。
Like a mighty storm。
Stuck within my soul。
Lord have you weighed, Lord have you weighed。
Amen。
Like a rushing wind。
Jesus breathes within。
Lord have you weighed, Lord have you weighed。
Amen。
Like a mighty storm。
Stuck within my soul。
Lord have you weighed, Lord have you weighed。
Amen。
Lord have you weighed, Lord have you weighed。
Amen。
I surrender。
I want to know you more。
I surrender。
I surrender。
I want to know you more。
I want to know you more。
Let's just pray.。
Father we surrender our lives to you.。
Lord would you fill us now with your spirit.。
Would you send us out to live and to work to your praise and glory.。
And may the blessing of the Lord God Almighty, Father, Son and Holy Spirit。
be upon us, our loved ones, this night and for always.。
Amen.。
So thanks for dialing in church. We'll see you again next week。
when we'll be having another special sermon online.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
