Last week I shared from the book of Ecclesiastes chapter 7, this preacher, this Kohelet, gatherer。
of wisdom, maybe Solomon himself, he starts dropping some wisdom, applications on how。
to live in this complicated world.。
He says there's so many things that he's seen.。
There is nothing new under the sun, everything is meaningless, but ultimately this is what。
you should do.。
Have a right perspective on life and death.。
Have a right perspective on prosperity and adversity.。
And one of the bits in this chapter 7 is him talking about, hey, look, I've seen that righteous。
people and wicked people, their lives in terms of what they end up having to experience is。
really not all that different.。
The wicked people, the unrighteous ones, they seem to get goodies too.。
The sun seems to shine on them and the righteous people who are trying everything to be as。
best as they can, they still have rain fall on them.。
And so he's talking about this and in chapter 8 he moves into really attacking or addressing。
this issue even more.。
And the title of this evening's topic is, What About the Wicked?。
As we look around at the world right now, as we see the news, there is no shortage of。
bad news.。
There is no shortage of hearing about bad people.。
Even this last week we heard, of course, from the country where I came from, Her Majesty。
the Queen passes away and there's so much that's flooding in terms of all the good things。
about her, everything that she stood for, everything that she stood for that was to。
be admired, but yet there's always this other side that there are people who talk about。
different things when it comes to the British Empire and everything that's happened in history。
and you can't ignore that.。
And there's all these different pieces of news as we look on the channels and we see。
just bad things after bad things and we see people killing each other, people hurting。
each other, people being selfish, people being greedy.。
And then you might ask yourself, God, what about those people?。
What about those people who are simply out to hurt others?。
Why don't you stop them?。
That's what Kohala, that's what the preacher here is saying.。
He's looking around at everything and he's going, why are these people still around?。
Chapter 8, verse 8 to 9 has this, "No man has power to retain the spirit or power over。
the day of death.。
There is no discharge from war, nor will wickedness deliver those who are given to it.。
All this I observed while applying my heart to all that is done under the sun when man。
had power over man to his hurt."。
Now it's not easy to read, it's not easy to understand, but what he's saying here is,。
I've seen so much.。
We don't have any control over the wind, we don't have any control over death, and actually。
people seem so intent on hurting each other.。
And it is just the way it is, is what he's saying.。
And then he goes on further, and we're only going to focus on a few verses here from 10。
to 15, and he carries on.。
Then he says this, "Then I saw the wicked buried."。
Those bad people.。
Those bad people.。
"I started seeing them die.。
They used to go in and out of the holy place and were praised in the city where they had。
done such things.。
This also is vanity, because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed speedily,。
the heart of the children of man is fully set to do evil."。
He's saying, I've seen wicked people, I've seen them die, and I've seen them get away。
with it.。
And when they get away with it, they keep going.。
That's what he's saying.。
"Though a sinner does evil a hundred times and prolongs his life, yeah, I know that it。
will be well with those who fear God, because they fear before him.。
But it will not be well with the wicked, neither will he prolong his days like a shadow, because。
he does not fear before God."。
He's saying he's seen evil, he's seen sinners do evil things, and yet it prolongs their。
life.。
They've been able to live long lives.。
"But ultimately I know, ultimately I know that it will not be well for them, or at the。
very least it will be well for those who fear God.。
And finally, there is a vanity that takes place on earth, that there are righteous people。
to whom it happens according to the deeds of the wicked, and there are wicked people。
to whom it happens according to the deeds of the righteous.。
I said that this is also vanity.。
And I commend joy, for man has nothing better under the sun, but to eat and drink and be。
joyful, for this will go with him in his tour through the days of his life that God has。
given him under the sun."。
This is the word of the Lord, albeit hard to understand.。
I shared with you last week that I found Ecclesiastes so complex, so confusing often.。
You've got this preacher who's filled with wisdom, he's gathered all this wisdom, and。
yet he seems just as confused as us.。
And of course, some people really do love this book.。
Actually, as I was looking at it, as I was preparing the sermons, I was like, "Man, Ecclesiastes。
is so tricky, so challenging, so hard to understand."。
And then I turn over and talk to my wife, and she's like, "It's my favourite book."。
And then I realise, "Oh, so that's why I've struggled to understand you, because this。
is what it looks like."。
And you see there's no difference.。
And yet, I think the preacher is trying to say something to us.。
Kohele is trying to explain something to us, which is this.。
Your knowledge and your understanding of this world is limited.。
As much as you want to be wise, you're still not going to truly get it.。
And this passage here, he's venting, actually.。
He's talking about the wicked.。
One, they exist, not good.。
Two, they don't get punished, bad.。
When they don't get punished, they keep going.。
Not good at all, not fair.。
And so what do we do?。
This is essentially what he's saying.。
Someone kind of brings this a little bit down to earth and writes this quote about this。
passage that may relate to us.。
He says, "Cruel dictators drive out free governments.。
The man who robs investors of their inheritance gets a huge bonus, while hardworking people。
lose their jobs and their homes.。
Suffering pastors are put in prison, while the persecutors of the church grow strong。
in their cruel power.。
To bring things down to the personal level, the student who gets cheated on a difficult。
exam gets an A, but all you get is a C-.。
The worker who stabbed you in the back gets the promotion, while you remain stuck at the。
same pay grade.。
Or you make a commitment to chastity, and although you are still single, the girl who。
throws herself at men gets a ring on her finger and a long white dress.。
Something doesn't seem right.。
Something is off.。
It just isn't fair.。
God, where are you?。
What are you doing?"。
Have we asked those questions before?。
Have we looked at the news and seen people who are in charge of big, big countries, who。
are maybe not looking after their own people well, or maybe attacking other people, hurting。
other people, and we think, "God, why don't you come and just zap them?。
Zap them, just lightning.。
Just remove them from the earth so they can stop hurting people."。
Have you ever thought that?。
I think Kohelet has been thinking that.。
He's going, "What do we do?。
The wickedness surrounding us, what do we do?"。
As I was thinking that, and I was joining him in the venting, and I was like, "Yeah!。
These people should be killed.。
They shouldn't have a chance.。
They shouldn't have a second chance.。
They should be wiped out.。
Wouldn't the world be so much better with him, him, him, her, her, or be disappeared,。
removed from the earth?。
Wouldn't that be better?。
God, where are you?。
What are you doing?"。
As I was reflecting on that, I think I was really challenged by a few things.。
There were some things about my perspective that was wrong when it comes to the wicked.。
When I asked that question, "God, what about those guys?。
God, what about them?。
Why aren't you dealing with them?"。
It really challenged me on a couple of things.。
There are three questions that came up in my mind that I'd love to share with you today.。
The first question is this, "Who do we actually see as wicked?。
What is wicked?"。
Of course, how many have seen the theater show Wicked?。
It's really good.。
It is incredibly good.。
It's interesting.。
It tells a very powerful story that I won't spoil it for those who, please, do go see。
it.。
The question is, "What is wicked to you?。
What's your definition as wicked?"。
As you look at someone, what threshold do you have?。
What ticks do you need to go through before you go, "Okay, that person is wicked."。
What is wicked?。
What is evil to you?。
When I just said that word, "evil," what comes up in your mind?。
What's evil?。
What are the things that are evil to you?。
Did God create evil?。
Did God create evil?。
The truth is, no, because God created everything.。
What did He call everything when He created it?。
He said, "It is good."。
So evil really isn't a thing.。
It's just like darkness and light.。
Darkness isn't really anything.。
Darkness is simply the absence of light.。
Darkness itself isn't a thing.。
It's simply that there is no light around there.。
So evil, in the same way, isn't really a thing.。
It is simply just something that has been corrupted, something that has been twisted.。
Augustine and C.S. Lewis, Clive Staple Lewis, both say this.。
Evil, wickedness, is basically the corruption of a good thing.。
That's what it is.。
God created this world and He called it good, yet for us, we have corrupted it.。
That's what we did.。
There's this famous book by C.S. Lewis, a couple that I'm going to quote today, because。
actually this topic, "God, why is there suffering if you are really that powerful, if you are。
really that loving?"。
C.S. Lewis, being a very intelligent man, before he was a Christian, would go to all。
his academic friends in Oxford and Cambridge and challenge them on this.。
If your God is all loving and if your God is all knowing, then why is there still such。
suffering and evil in the world?。
It's the Epicurean paradox.。
It's a Greek philosophy paradox, which is, wait, if He is God and He is all loving and。
He is all knowing, then why is there still so much rubbish that is happening?。
Surely that means He is incompetent or disinterested, right?。
That's the paradox.。
And C.S. Lewis would keep asking his Christian friends this until he finally found the answer.。
And I'll let him explain it more to you, but before that, he writes this book called "The。
Screwtape Letters."。
It's a very interesting book and it's a satirical novel, okay?。
So it's not actually happening.。
He doesn't have any specific divine revelation on this is happening, but "The Screwtape Letters"。
is about Screwtape, who is a senior demon.。
He's a senior demon and he's writing letters to one of his young demons, trying to train。
his young demon.。
What's he trying to train him to do?。
He's trying to train him how to distract humans from God.。
So that's the book, that's what it's all about.。
So Screwtape writes him these letters.。
And there's this one passage which I thought I must read to you because it is really interesting.。
So Screwtape here is the senior demon and he's writing to his understudy and he says。
this.。
He said, "You know what?。
God is a hedonist at heart.。
He makes no secret of it.。
At his right hand are pleasures forevermore.。
He's vulgar, Wormwood."。
Wormwood is his understudy.。
He's vulgar.。
"He has a bourgeois mind.。
He has filled his world full of pleasures.。
There are things for humans to do all day long.。
Sleeping, and washing, and eating, and drinking, and making love, playing, praying, working.。
Everything has to be twisted before it's any use to us."。
Everything has to be twisted before it's any use to us.。
God did not create evil.。
There is no such thing as evil.。
There is simply good things that have been twisted.。
Good things that have been corrupted.。
It's a good world that's gone wrong.。
Fire is a good thing.。
It keeps us warm.。
It helps us cook our food so we don't have salmonella.。
But if used wrongly, it can be used for explosives to kill people.。
Water is an essential ingredient of life.。
We need water to survive.。
And water can also be used to drown someone.。
Evil simply is the corruption of a good thing.。
Evil is the corruption of a good thing.。
And when did it start?。
When did evil enter?。
The moment in the garden with Adam and Eve.。
The fall.。
If good, if everything is good because we choose God, we follow what God is asking us。
to do, we use the things that God has designed them for, then we're good.。
But the moment we choose something else, the moment we choose to use it for our own desires,。
then it becomes evil, it becomes sin.。
And that's what Adam and Eve did.。
God said, "Here it is.。
This is the garden.。
This is your creation.。
You can live in my presence for eternity and you can enjoy all of this."。
But then they chose a different way.。
And so at that point, wickedness enters in.。
God had designed the garden, had designed Adam and Eve to live forever.。
But unfortunately, they chose another way.。
Just like we choose another way.。
So the question really is this, as we challenge ourselves to think, "What is really evil?。
What's actually wicked?"。
The first thing we have to realise is actually, we have it within us.。
We have it in us.。
Before we start labelling, "Oh, that person is wicked.。
That person is evil."。
There is no such thing.。
If there is no such thing as wicked, then there is only such a thing as a person choosing。
to carry out evil deeds.。
There is only a person who is choosing to do this, choosing to be wicked.。
But there are no inherently wicked people in that sense.。
Which also means that actually, that has a repercussion for all of us.。
The Apostle Paul in Romans 3 says this.。
He says, "There's no distinction.。
You looking over there, pointing down at that person.。
There is no distinction.。
We all fall short of the glory of God.。
All of us.。
There is wickedness in all of us."。
So before we point that finger and say, "That person is wicked."。
I mean that cheesy thing is, every time you point a finger out, there's three fingers。
pointing back at you.。
As believers, as we are surrounded by a world that is filled with wickedness, we have to。
remember that we cannot put that wickedness onto these people as that is their whole thing.。
That is their whole being.。
They are simply people that were designed for good, who have chosen otherwise.。
And then we realise, "Oh actually, that's me as well.。
There seems to be different levels of it, but actually there is wickedness in me."。
We first must look at ourselves.。
Be careful that we don't have an inflated view of ourselves.。
Jesus talks about this.。
You keep looking over at your friend and saying, "There's a piece of dust in your eye when。
you ignore the fact that there's a plank in my eye."。
So as I look at the news and I see all these bad, all these wicked people, I realise, "Goodness。
me, I think I need to change the way I look at this."。
Now it's not denying that there are evil acts that are being carried out, that there is。
wickedness in the world, but first I need to check, "Is there wickedness in me?"。
First I must see if there is any evil in me because there is simply no distinction.。
We are truly all wicked in the sense that we carry out, we choose to do wicked acts.。
Then the second question is this.。
If I've decided that, okay, what wicked is, the second question I ask myself is, "Well,。
what do I think they deserve?"。
Kohelet here is saying they are not getting punished and because of that their behaviour。
is carrying on.。
There is delayed punishment or even worse, there is no punishment at all.。
What are we going to do with this?。
A commentator summarised this bit and this is one of the trickiest texts in this chapter。
and in the Bible.。
And he summarises this.。
What the preacher is trying to say here is there is no moral purpose working itself out。
in human destiny.。
Do you know we always have these things where when we do something good then we will get。
rewarded, we will have a better life.。
When we do something bad, something will happen and we will get punished.。
Ecclesiastes is saying there is no moral purpose working itself out in human destiny.。
Everything just happens.。
And the preacher, the author here, is very frustrated with that because he sees wicked。
people that he is looking down on and he is waiting for them and asking, "Why are they。
not being punished?。
Why does God spare immediate judgement?"。
The problem here is this.。
Once we have discerned that actually there is no actual wickedness, there is simply just。
good people who are choosing to do wicked acts, we will start to understand why God。
doesn't give out immediate judgement.。
If God did give immediate judgement, none of us would be here.。
Because the moment we would do something small that is wrong, that is still wrong, we would。
be zapped.。
We would be gone.。
And we wouldn't even have a chance to do that because the moment Eve takes a bite from the。
apple and Adam takes a bite from the apple, Eve would be enough to wipe out the human。
race because then they wouldn't be able to reproduce.。
God zaps her away, then there is only Adam left.。
He is lonely.。
Man can't look after himself.。
So the human race dies.。
God doesn't spare, God doesn't give out judgement immediately because he has a bigger plan.。
And there is something else that we will talk about this later.。
The question we have to ask ourselves is, as we look at these wicked acts, as we look。
at these people who we think should be punished, the question is, what do we think they should。
be punished with?。
What do we think they deserve?。
But maybe the real question is, why do we think they deserve judgement?。
What pride is in us as we look at someone who we deem as wicked and say, "That person。
needs to be judged, God needs to punish that person."。
What pride is there in us when we think that?。
Because as soon as you realise, "Oh, everyone was created for good, we just simply have。
the choice to choose this."。
Then you realise that actually it is a lot more complicated, it is a lot more layered。
than just, "If someone does something wrong, you punish them severely."。
Every person who has had children will know this.。
Because it is not just as simple as the moment a kid does something wrong, that you just。
wipe them from the face of the earth.。
It's not that simple.。
There is the factor of love that we will explore a little bit more.。
But the preacher here, Kohele here, is very annoyed.。
He's saying, "These wicked people, they did all these bad things, but the moment they。
die, everyone forgets and they have the most wonderful funeral.。
And everyone's praising them."。
Have we seen that before?。
When someone dies and suddenly everyone just has great things to say about this person,。
but actually when they were alive, they really were not that great at all.。
And Kohele here is like, "That's not fair.。
That's not good."。
And we look around at people and we see these people who are cheating people out of their。
money, their pensions.。
You see these people who are just not looking after other people and yet they still get。
all the luxuries of life, they still get all the power, they still get all the fame and。
reputation.。
And we're like, "That's not fair."。
Right?。
They're wicked people.。
I'm the righteous one, yet I'm the one who's starving and I'm the one who's still slaving。
away where they seem to be living the life.。
The question really for us then is, as we think about that, is what do we think they。
actually deserve?。
What high horse are we sitting on?。
But the second question is, actually those things that we see that they're getting praised。
for, Kohele, as he looks at these people who are getting praised at their funeral, getting。
all these earthly praises, actually deep down, is that what we desire?。
These rich people who still get to live all their lives even though they don't care for。
anyone, actually, secretly, is that what we desire?。
Those of us who are lower on the ladder, we keep looking at the top of the ladder going,。
"Oh, if I had that, then I would be better.。
If I had the money that you had, I would be way more generous.。
If I did that..."。
And then you're like, "Well, actually, how generous are you with what you have?"。
Again, before we point that finger, there are three fingers pointing back at us.。
What do we even think is wicked?。
What do we think they actually deserve?。
Where do you draw the line?。
Let's talk about this.。
Let's pretend to play God for a second here.。
Let's wipe out evil in this world.。
Who are the first group of people that you'd wipe out?。
You're all thinking it.。
You're all thinking, "Well, we'll wipe out the murderers, right?。
The murderers, the tyrants, the dictators, the rapists.。
Let's wipe those out.。
Get rid of those."。
But there's still evil in the world.。
"Okay, well, okay.。
Well, the top tier are gone now, so let's wipe out the second tier."。
Who are the second tier?。
The bankers?。
"Let's wipe out the second tier of people, people who harm each other.。
They fight and they...。
Maybe they don't rape people, but maybe they cheat on their wife.。
Maybe let's wipe those out.。
They're still bad."。
And you're like, "Okay, well, wait, there's still evil in the world.。
Okay, well, actually, let's just wipe out the people who don't do any good for other。
people.。
They just look after themselves."。
It's a slippery slope, isn't it?。
When we're asking God, "Why are you sparing judgment on them?"。
The real question is, "Why is he still sparing judgment on us?"。
Because we're on that list somewhere.。
We all fall short of the glory of God, the holiness of God.。
We might not be 99% doing bad things all the time, but we're definitely not completely。
perfect.。
So the question then becomes, "What do we think they actually deserve?"。
There is no distinction.。
We all fall short of the glory of God.。
In fact, because we live in a broken world, we know that even the most evil people, the。
people who are doing the most evil acts, often because of the broken world that they grew。
up in, they are victims of the broken society themselves.。
If you watch the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and you watch all the villains that every。
movie has, there's always a backstory, right?。
There's always a backstory of why that person that was created for good became bad.。
Because they themselves were victims of a broken society.。
They themselves were victims of abuse.。
They themselves were victims of failure and deep trauma and hurt.。
So before we point the finger, once again, as believers, challenge ourselves, "Wait,。
wait.。
What is wicked?。
What is evil?。
What do I think they deserve?。
I don't know, because I know what I deserve, and I didn't get it, so I'm just going to。
stay in my lane."。
Let us think about that.。
Let us challenge that.。
And you see, Kohala here actually isn't annoyed at the wicked people.。
He's not even annoyed at the people in the city who are praising the wicked people at。
the funeral.。
Who's he annoyed at?。
He's annoyed at God himself.。
Because he's like, "God, you can do something about this, yet you're not doing anything.。
And because you're not doing anything, they're simply getting worse."。
So the final question that I realized as I was pointing the finger, as I was thinking。
about all these things about why there is such evil in the world, I realized the question。
that I needed to ask was, "How do I actually see God?。
How do you see God?。
When it comes to sin, when it comes to evil, how do I actually see God?"。
You see, Kohala's answer to all of this, he ends up giving up and just saying, "You know。
what?。
I've seen so much.。
You know what?。
The only thing I can really do is eat, drink, be merry, and fear God."。
That's what I'm going to do.。
The key here is, what does he mean by fearing God?。
When he says, "Okay, you know what?。
Let's just fear God."。
Fear God means to fully recognize who God actually is.。
Because we often have a distorted image of who God is.。
We think He's the great punisher.。
Every time we do something wrong, we think He's going to slap us on our hands.。
Every time something bad happens to us, we're like, "What did I do wrong?。
Maybe I bought something and put it into the house that was wrong.。
Maybe I said an unkind word to someone.。
Maybe I didn't do something nice, and so God's punishing me now."。
Don't we have that perspective sometimes?。
And yet, that's because we have a wrong perspective of God Himself.。
When we truly fear God, what he's saying is, we truly understand who He actually is, how。
wonderfully kind and gracious He is, how loving He is.。
The preacher here is saying, there's two kinds of people, and it's not wicked and righteous.。
It's those who fear God and those who don't.。
Because we all fall short.。
The question really is, are you in the camp that fears God, that knows who He is, that。
reveres Him, that trusts Him and loves Him?。
Or are you in the camp that actually don't fear Him at all?。
Those are the kinds of people that are in this world.。
And there's this passage in the New Testament that really talks about this as well.。
To Peter, Peter is hearing the same things, because he's talking about, the passage just。
before this, he's saying, "There are scoffers around you who are saying, 'Where's your God?。
Where's the judgment?。
If your God is so big and He's so holy, why isn't He coming to destroy us all now?'"。
Very similar to Noah, back in his day, when he was building that ark.。
The people were like, "Where is your God?。
What are you doing?。
This is so stupid.。
This is stupid.。
It's not even raining.。
It's sunny.。
Where is your God?"。
And yet in the day of Noah, the judgment came through flood.。
And soon, one day, there will be a second judgment that will come via fire.。
And Peter is talking to the people and saying, "Hey, look, those who are scoffing, ignore。
them.。
Those who are scoffing, thinking, 'Where is your God?。
Why isn't He giving judgment?'"。
He's saying, "No, do not overlook this one fact.。
Remember this one thing, beloved, that with the Lord one day is a thousand years and a。
thousand years as one day.。
The Lord is not slow to fulfill His promise, as some count slowness, but is patient toward。
you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance."。
Do not overlook this one fact.。
This is the one thing about God that you need to know.。
And for even those of us who believe, we need to know this.。
We need to remember this.。
God is yes.。
He is holy.。
And yes, He will judge.。
And yes, He is fair.。
But above all, God is love.。
Jesus said Himself, "I didn't come to judge.。
I came to save."。
And until we get that into our minds, until we understand who God truly is, we will look。
at other people in the wrong way.。
The Lord is not slow to fulfill His promise because a thousand years is like one day to。
Him.。
What does that mean?。
He stands above time.。
So we think, "God, why are you still letting that madman run that country?。
Why are you still letting that person do what they're doing?。
It's been five years!"。
And then you look at the book of Judges and you see that the Israelites get ruled over。
by the Babylonians for 80 years at a time.。
And you realize that actually God is working on a different time frame.。
The question here is, do we trust Him?。
That's what it's all about, right?。
So often we talk to God and say, "Look, where are we going with this?。
Where are you going with this project?。
Tell us where your destination is and tell us when you're going to get there.。
Because I need to know the ending of the story.。
I need to know that this bad guy eventually gets punished."。
And God's saying, "No.。
Do you know my heart?。
Do not overlook this.。
If you do, then trust me.。
Oh, I do trust you, God.。
I do trust you.。
But I just want to know where the ending is."。
Well, if you want to know where the ending is, then you don't really trust me.。
So the key here for us is, do we truly trust and believe who God is and do we truly fear Him?。
He is not sparing judgment out of indifference.。
He is not sparing judgment out of incompetence.。
He is sparing judgment out of patience.。
And aren't we all so grateful that He is patient to us?。
Aren't we all so grateful that He didn't send a lightning bolt down the first time we made。
a mistake?。
Which was actually when we were a baby.。
Aren't we glad that He is patient to us?。
So if He is patient to us, then what's our job when it comes to talking about the wicked?。
He is patient to us because He loves us.。
And He doesn't want us to compare.。
He doesn't want us to look across at the other side and go, "What about them?。
What about the wicked?"。
That's not what He wants.。
And this is where Kohelet is right.。
I've seen all of this.。
It's unfair.。
It's unright.。
It's confusing to me.。
I don't understand it.。
You know what?。
I must just fear God.。
I'll eat.。
I'll drink.。
I'll be merry.。
What is he saying?。
You know what?。
My understanding is limited.。
I don't know why God isn't dealing with that person.。
But my understanding is limited so I will stay in my lane.。
And my lane is to fear Him.。
Is to love Him.。
Christina and I, we have the honour of counselling couples.。
Couples who are just about to get married, who are just married.。
And they're kind of going through the conflicts of early marriage or any years, I guess.。
There's always conflicts in marriage.。
And then there's scripture that says, "Wives, submit to your husbands."。
And then the wife is like, "Oh."。
And the husband is like, "Oh, she's not submitting to me."。
And then the scripture is like, "Husbands, love your wives."。
And then the wife is like, "I can't submit to him because he doesn't love me."。
And I found it interesting.。
And at one time I was sharing this.。
It wasn't that long ago.。
I was like, "You know what?。
There's a reason why it says, 'Wives, submit to your husbands.'"。
Because at that moment, Paul is talking to the wives.。
He's not talking to the husbands and saying, "Husbands, your wives will submit to you."。
Unconditionally.。
That's not what he's saying.。
He's not saying, "Wives, your husbands will love you."。
That's not what he's saying.。
He's talking to each one and he's saying, "Wives, submit to your husbands.。
Follow their lead."。
"Husbands, love your wives."。
That doesn't mean that you just get to make all the decisions because she's submitting。
to you.。
It means you get to die first because love is to die, is to lay yourself down.。
That's the greatest example of love, right?。
So husbands are like, "Oh, I get to leave and my wife gets to submit to you."。
Yes, yes, yes, yes.。
But you also get to die first, which means when you're arguing, you get to be the one。
that says sorry first.。
You get to be the one that lays down your own preferences first.。
Wives, you get to submit to your husbands because he loves you, also because you're。
trusting that he will submit to God.。
But we must stay in our lanes.。
We must not look at, "You're not loving me."。
Let's just focus on, "Am I doing the thing that God's?"。
We should avoid the comparison.。
We should avoid looking across and going, "What about them?"。
God's saying, "Look at me."。
The final story is I'm reminded of Jesus.。
You see, Jesus, I'm sure you've heard of him.。
He comes to earth, Prince of Heaven, comes to earth, he dies, and then he resurrects.。
And then he goes to meet Peter, who has just messed up.。
He lied about knowing Jesus.。
And then he restores Peter by the fireplace in this really intimate setting.。
And he's saying, "Peter, do you love me?。
Do you love me?。
Do you love me?"。
And then Peter says, "Yes, I do.。
Yes, I do.。
Yes, I do."。
And then he says, "Well, feed my sheep.。
Feed my sheep.。
Look after my sheep."。
And then he says, "Actually, something bad's going to happen to you.。
You're going to end up giving your life to the gospel."。
And then Peter does the funny thing.。
Well, he's of course humbled because he made some mistakes.。
And then he does this thing and he says, "Well, okay, fine.。
But God, what about him?。
Do you know that bit?"。
He looks across and goes, "What about that guy?。
If I have to die, what about him?"。
And then Jesus says this just brutally honest and direct response.。
He says, "What is that to you?。
If I let him live forever, what is that to you?"。
He's telling Peter, "Stay in your lane.。
You love me.。
You keep your eyes on me.。
You serve me.。
You feed my sheep.。
You follow me.。
Don't worry about the rest."。
Because there's a danger.。
As soon as we start looking across into another lane, as soon as we start comparing, as soon。
as we start judging, "Oh, that person's wicked.。
Oh, that person's doing this.。
I think that person deserves this," we have lost our bearings once again.。
We've taken our eyes away from God and onto these other people.。
Let us not overlook the fact that God transcends time.。
He is not fazed by any evil empire, any institution, any bad person.。
He is not fazed by any of them.。
But he is patient because ultimately he doesn't want anyone to perish.。
That's the heart that we hold onto.。
That's the thing that we benefit from, his grace to us.。
Therefore we can fear him, eat, drink, be merry, despite us being surrounded by a wicked。
world.。
We don't need to ask the question, "What is wicked?" because we have a good shepherd who。
will look after us.。
We have a good shepherd who examines us and sees the wickedness in us.。
And yet he welcomes us in despite our wickedness.。
That is God.。
So I finish by asking you those same questions again.。
How do you, what do you think is wicked?。
What do you think they deserve?。
And before you think about them, let us think about us.。
And let us turn our eyes to the good shepherd who we can ultimately completely trust because。
we know he is in complete control.。
That is how a Christian, a follower of Christ, navigates this confusing, dark world.。
So let us eat, let us drink, let us be joyful and be merry, and let us fear our God because。
of who he is.。
Let us pray.。
So Father, we come before you with confusion sometimes, with frustration.。
Because we look around at the world and we see that it's just not what it should be.。
And our hearts break because it's fallen.。
People are hurting each other.。
And yet Lord, we pray that your Spirit would show us how we should truly live.。
That you would show us, you would remind us of your heart.。
So as we are face to face with wickedness, as we are face to face with hurt, that we。
would not approach it with pride, but we would approach it with the same love that you had。
for us.。
God, we seek your face.。
We want to know who you truly are.。
And we do not overlook the fact that you transcend time itself.。
And that you are not slow to bring judgment, but that you are patient so that we would。
not perish.。
And for that we are grateful.。
Thank you, Jesus.。
You are the good shepherd in whom we trust.。
We turn our eyes to you.。
It's in your name we pray.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
