And we have been going through the series called Charged.。
And Pastor James did a great job of going through。
chapter one with us, talking about。
what would love have me do, right?。
If God is love, what would love have me do。
in different situations, in tough situations?。
What would God have me do?。
The second thing, the second part that we went through。
was with Pastor Michelle.。
And she talked about the truth, upholding the truth.。
What is true understanding, true experience。
so that we can have, so that we can be。
the true vessel of God and share His word。
to those around us.。
And in the second chapter of 1 Timothy,。
we are going through prayer today, prayer.。
And Paul talks about different types of prayer.。
He talks about the purpose of prayer,。
who prayers are, who is praying.。
He talks about the purpose of prayer, who prayer is for,。
the ultimate purpose, the ultimate goal of prayer.。
And lastly, our attitude towards prayer.。
And so at the beginning on the call to worship,。
we read this verse, right?。
Where Paul was urging Timothy, Paul was urging Timothy,。
first of all, the petitions, prayers, intercessions,。
thanksgiving be made for all people.。
And so Paul, first of all, is talking about。
different types of prayer, right?。
What are some of the things that you pray for。
on a daily basis?。
What are different types of prayer you,。
what are the things you pray for?。
Shout it out, come on.。
You don't pray?。
You don't pray?。
What do you pray for?。
What do you pray for?。
Help, what else?。
Huh?。
Protection, shoes, James wants more shoes.。
(audience laughing)。
The first thing that Paul says。
is that we pray for supplication, right?。
Or in the other version, it's called petitions.。
And supplication is just God,。
supply us with the things that we need, right?。
We need help, we need shoes.。
God, help us.。
(laughing)。
Maybe too many shoes now.。
God, we have too many shoes, help us.。
Another form of prayer is intercession.。
Who's prayed for somebody that is in need this week?。
Who's prayed for somebody in need?。
Maybe we have friends that are sick.。
Maybe you have friends that are going through。
some emotional needs,。
who are going through something hard in life.。
We pray for people on a daily basis.。
Intercession, Thanksgiving,。
what are you guys thankful for?。
Health, what else?。
Food, who said food?。
Are you guys thinking about food already, huh?。
(laughing)。
What are you guys thankful for?。
What else?。
Friendship, family, Thanksgiving.。
Paul is saying when we gather together,。
let's pray.。
Let's pray for God to meet our needs.。
Let's pray that God would help our friends and our family.。
Let's thank God for the things that he's done in our life.。
Back when I was in university and I was leading a group,。
we committed ourselves to having prayer meeting every day.。
9 a.m. in our office.。
These are some of the students。
and I couldn't make it that day,。
and so they're showing me a photo that they were praying.。
And we started off that day with prayer.。
We're giving up the day, offering it to the Lord.。
We would pray and thank God for who he is.。
We would pray and confess.。
We would thank God for the things he's done.。
And then we would pray for the world.。
We would pray for the world.。
The Koreans have really made it a focus of their ministry.。
Who has some friends that are Korean?。
In Toronto, there's a lot of Koreans.。
And what they're sort of really focused on。
is prayer in the morning.。
They would come together at the dawn of day, at 6 a.m.,。
to pray together.。
Now, that might not be the generation now.。
It might be the generation, you know,。
the younger generation.。
No, no, not the younger generation.。
The young and the younger generation.。
So not the younger generation, but the young generation.。
They came to pray every day, sometimes 4 or 5 a.m.。
The Koreans really focused on prayer.。
And Paul wants us to focus on prayer too.。
And why should we pray?。
What is the purpose of prayer?。
Who should we be praying for?。
He says that we need to pray for all men.。
Everyone needs to be prayed for.。
All people need to be prayed for.。
Now, those who work in youth,。
who has worked in youth before,。
or university students or whatnot,。
you love it.。
You know, when you come together in a group,。
and at the end, you wanna pray together,。
and you ask these kids,。
"Oh, what do you want us to pray for you?"。
And sometimes they say, "I'm good."。
Have you guys gotten that before?。
I'm good, right?。
I'm good.。
Like, God, I'm good.。
And so I tell them, "Yeah, let's pray for your perfect life.。
"Let's pray for your perfect life without sin,。
"without conflict,。
"'cause, you know, obviously,。
"you need especially, you need especially,。
"you especially need prayer."。
Sorry.。
Sorry, I got tongue twisted there.。
Paul goes on and says this to us,。
"But we need to pray for kings。
"and all those in authority,。
"that we may live peaceful and quiet lives。
"in all godliness and holiness."。
And so Paul was obviously writing this letter to Timothy.。
And as Pastor James explained to us, he was in Ephesus.。
And in Ephesus,。
who was sort of in charge at that time, it was Rome.。
It was Caesar.。
And the Christians, a lot of times, they had conflict,。
because Caesar was supposed to be like God, right?。
And so if you didn't follow exactly what Caesar did,。
you were disobeying their God.。
And so the Christians had conflict, right?。
They didn't always follow what Caesar said.。
And so because of that, Paul is urging them to pray.。
Paul is urging them to pray for their leaders,。
that they may live peaceful and quiet lives。
in godliness and holiness.。
Back then, Paul's urge to them。
was to live peaceful and quiet lives。
in godliness and holiness.。
And obviously, we all have political leaders that we love,。
or sometimes we're not really agreeing with.。
But Paul is asking us, God is asking us,。
that we pray for our leaders.。
We pray for our leaders.。
The standard he sets here is this,。
that we may live lives of godliness and holiness.。
And so how can we live lives of godliness and holiness。
in our situation?。
And we need to be sensitive to the Spirit,。
how the Spirit leads us,。
so that we can live godly and holy lives for the Lord.。
Next, Paul tells us of the ultimate goal of prayer.。
And it says in verse five, right?。
Verse four, and then verse three and four, and then five.。
"This is good and pleases God our Savior,。
"who wants all people to be saved。
"and come to the knowledge of the truth."。
Paul, first of all, says, this is good and it pleases God.。
The ultimate goal of prayer is to please God.。
Does God know everything?。
Does He know what you're gonna pray before you pray it?。
He does.。
He does.。
But God wants us to have a relationship with Him,。
connect with Him on a daily basis.。
Yes, He knows what we're gonna pray.。
He knows our need.。
He is a Father。
that will guide us, protect us.。
Even the sparrows are well-fed.。
Even the flowers are more beautiful than anything。
that is dressed,。
any of Solomon's dresses or outfits.。
God knows our need,。
but He wants us to pray because it pleases Him。
to connect with Him.。
And the second thing is,。
"For there is one God and one mediator。
"between God and mankind,。
"the man Christ Jesus,。
"who gave Himself as a ransom for all people."。
Jesus gave Himself for us.。
The ultimate goal of prayer。
is that people would be saved, all would be saved,。
and to come to the knowledge of the truth,。
that Jesus is the truth,。
the way, the life, and the truth.。
There is no other way to Jesus, to the Father,。
except through Him.。
Jesus is our mediator.。
He gave up Himself。
so that we could connect with the Father.。
And so we need to be praying。
for people to come to know Jesus.。
Have you guys been praying。
for some of your friends and your family。
to come to know Jesus?。
Have you?。
Yes.。
I remember back in university。
and we had this Christian group.。
Every year we would set a goal.。
We wanna be praying.。
For example, we wanna see 50 students。
come to know Jesus this school semester.。
And so we would pray every week。
that students would come to know Jesus diligently.。
And we would pray that through our events,。
whether it be a "Does God exist?" debate,。
whether it be a "Can a scientist believe in God?" event,。
or just one-on-one going out and doing good work。
and social events,。
that people would come to know Jesus,。
students would come to know Jesus.。
And that's what we did when we were in university.。
We prayed diligently。
for students to come to know Jesus.。
And Paul is charging Timothy。
that when they gather together, when they pray,。
their ultimate goal。
must be that people would come to know Jesus,。
that all would be saved,。
come to the knowledge of the truth,。
and that there is only one mediator,。
and that is Jesus himself.。
Next, he talks about the attitude of prayer.。
And let's read together verse eight to 10.。
Let's read together.。
One, two, three.。
(audience chattering)。
"Lifting up holy hands without anger or disputing.。
"I also want the women to dress modestly。
"with decency and propriety,。
"adorning themselves not with elaborate hairstyles。
"or gold or pearls, expensive clothes,。
"but all goodies appropriate for women。
"to profess to worship God."。
All right, so now we're going to a part of the passage。
that is a bit more tricky.。
Now, the passage after this, the end of the chapter,。
there's some controversy to it,。
the different roles of men and women in the church.。
Now, today, our focus will be on prayer.。
We don't have enough time to address the roles specifically,。
but we're gonna just focus on the prayer aspect of it.。
And so we're just gonna go through this section of it.。
And what Paul is doing here is he is focusing。
on some of the concerns of the different genders of that day.。
So firstly, with men, he's telling them to lift holy hands.。
Right, lift holy hands and pray without anger or disputing.。
Now, in the Old Testament, they lifted holy hands.。
They lifted hands when they prayed, right?。
Ezra did that, David did that in the temple.。
Lifting holy hands is a sign of surrender,。
devotion to the Lord, right?。
Holy hands are, we need to set apart our lives for the Lord.。
The problem with some of the men of that time was that。
they dealt with anger, okay?。
They were dealing with anger.。
Some of them were very self-righteous.。
They had to be right.。
You know, sort of like our (speaks in foreign language)。
Right, we need to be men, we are always right.。
Right, and so some of the problems of that time。
during Timothy and Paul was that these men sometimes。
would pray prayers that would be angry prayers, right?。
Oh, Lord, forgive James for not passing me the ball。
at basketball.。
Forgive him, Lord, repent.。
Help him to repent of his ways.。
They had to be right, you know?。
The Greeks and especially some of those philosophers。
and theologians, philosophers back then,。
they wanted to be right.。
That's what they strived for.。
And sometimes they would use prayer。
to go against the other person they were disputing.。
And they would use prayer to make themselves right.。
And so Paul is saying, no, lift yourself up with holy hands。
and pray to the Lord, surrender to the Lord.。
Don't use prayer to win your arguments.。
Don't use prayer to start disputes.。
Prayer should be focused on the Lord.。
Prayer should be focused on the Lord.。
And so that was what Paul was encouraging。
the men of that time to do.。
Now, he continues and says that the women。
should dress modestly with decency and propriety.。
Decency and propriety.。
And so some of the women of that time,。
maybe they were really well-dressed, right?。
Elaborate hairstyles, gold, pearls, expensive clothes.。
Now, if you come to church nowadays with braids。
or what is it again?。
Sorry, elaborate hairstyles, gold, pearls.。
We wouldn't think that much of it, right?。
I mean, that's sort of normal.。
People wear gold chains, people have interesting hairstyles.。
I mean, it's true.。
Some people wear expensive clothes.。
Some people wear expensive...。
I don't know whose hairstyle is more elaborate。
or I don't know.。
That can be up to interpretation.。
So Paul is reminding the women of that time.。
Maybe they were coming, it was like a red carpet。
every time they went to church, right?。
They wore all their best dresses。
and all the craziest hairstyles, elaborate hairstyles.。
Maybe it was like, you know, the Emmy Awards。
every time they went to prayer meeting。
or something like that.。
So Paul was reminding the women.。
It's not about outer appearance.。
It's about God.。
And so what does propriety mean?。
It means, is it proper, right?。
Is it appropriate for the meeting?。
Am I overdressed or underdressed?。
Is it gonna cause inappropriate attention to myself?。
So Paul is reminding the women of that time,。
propriety, decency and modesty.。
Is it moderate?。
Is it too much or too little?。
Where is the middle ground?。
And, you know, sometimes we have to remind our youth。
at the youth service, you know, to dress modestly。
'cause the trends of this world, you know,。
are not super modest nowadays.。
And so is he, is Paul saying,。
"No, you gotta dress ugly."。
You know, is that what Paul is saying?。
No, Paul is not saying you gotta come ugly and not ugly.。
Paul is saying, "Dress appropriately.。
"Use the wisdom that God has given you.。
"Be led by the Holy Spirit."。
And these things were especially addressed。
to men and women of that time.。
But actually it could go both ways, right?。
Men, you need to dress decently as well.。
How would it be if I just came on stage unbuttoned。
and preached the sermon?。
Would it be modest?。
Would it be decent?。
No.。
Men also have to practise, right?。
He agrees, you know, yeah.。
Right, men also have to go through this, right?。
Women, you know, sometimes you could be angry。
in prayer as well, I'm not sure.。
Ask him.。
Paul is addressing these things。
specifically for those people at those times.。
But his ultimate goal。
is that he wants our attitude to be fixed on God,。
not ourselves.。
When we meet together to pray,。
it shouldn't be about disputing.。
It shouldn't be about, you know,。
causing gossip, causing gossip.。
It shouldn't be about, oh, I gotta be。
the most well-dressed person in this prayer meeting。
or I have to have the most elaborate hairstyle。
in this meeting.。
Our focus when we pray together,。
as we come together in worship,。
is that we be fixed on Jesus Christ.。
Amen?。
Amen.。
And so we've gone through prayer today,。
the different types of prayer,。
the purpose of prayer.。
We pray for men, we pray for our leaders.。
We seek God's guidance in how we be Christians。
in this time, in this age.。
Our ultimate goal of prayer is to please God.。
Is to have our friends and our family。
and people come to know Jesus.。
And lastly, our attitude towards prayer。
should be focused on him.。
Not on ourselves, not on winning disputes,。
not on gossiping, not on how amazing we're dressed.。
Our eyes need to be fixed on Jesus when we pray.。
And that should be our attitude.。
That should be our attitude.。
And so as we conclude,。
let me ask you a question.。
How is your prayer life?。
How is your prayer life?。
Are you praying more to God?。
Or are you depending more on yourself?。
Are you praying more to God?。
Or are you depending more on yourself?。
Hudson Saylor has this quote.。
"When we work, we work.。
"When we pray, God works."。
You guys all know I'm a doer.。
I've said this many times.。
I love doing many things, right?。
Whether it be ministry,。
or be in this fellowship, that fellowship,。
this fellowship, that fellowship,。
share the gospel here, whatever.。
Do a lot of things, do a lot of sports, right?。
And the problem with doing。
is that I sometimes forget about why I'm doing it。
and who I'm depending on to do these things.。
And I need to stop myself。
when I'm doing too much,。
especially when I'm doing too much,。
to sit down and connect with the person。
that is seeking after me.。
I'm chasing all these different things,。
but the one person that is chasing after me is God.。
And we need to connect with God.。
In such a busy city, with busy schedules,。
we need to connect with God and humble ourselves.。
Prayer is us humbling ourselves before an infinite God。
and saying that we need you, God.。
We surrender ourselves to you.。
We depend on you to provide for us.。
We depend on you for protecting our families.。
We depend on you ultimately for salvation,。
for what you've done on the cross.。
Are you depending on yourself more。
than you are praying to God and connecting with him?。
And lastly, is the ultimate goal of our prayers。
the salvation of others?。
Have we been praying for our friends, our family,。
our loved ones, our leaders,。
that they would come to know Jesus?。
Have we been praying for them?。
I remember my dad, right?。
He was the first to know Jesus in our family.。
And when he was in high school,。
he had a calling from God to go into seminary.。
And my grandmother was just like, "Don't go, don't go."。
And my dad, and grandfather,。
dad was like threatening to kick him out of the house.。
"Don't go."。
My dad chose to follow Jesus,。
to follow God, go to seminary.。
And it wasn't until 15 or 20 years later。
that my grandparents came to know Jesus。
when they came to visit us in Canada.。
God has his time and his way.。
Are we trusting in him more than we trust ourselves?。
Let's invite the worship team to come up.。
Before we respond,。
before we respond in song,。
I just want to take some time for us to pray.。
If you've depended on yourself too much,。
you've forgotten God,。
let it be a time where you just confess,。
"God, this is where I'm at.。
"You know my heart, you know my weaknesses.。
"Just confess it to the Lord."。
Or maybe God has placed somebody on your heart。
that really needs Jesus.。
That God would open up opportunities。
for you to connect with them about Jesus, about God.。
Maybe bring them to Alpha.。
Maybe help them to try church one time.。
Let's spend some time with our creator。
and just connect with Him in prayer.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
