Hello everyone.。
It's great to be sharing a word with you tonight.。
I'm really excited because we'll be talking about the church in Philadelphia.。
So over the last few weeks, we've been going through the book of Revelations where we've。
seen so far five churches.。
And let's just say that the Lord have had a little bit more negative comments and judgment。
than we would have expected.。
And a lot of them were quite negatively commented by the Lord.。
And some of it was that they've lost their first love, which is the love that they had。
for the Lord.。
And others, they have been a corrupted church.。
I mean, Smyrna was a better one where they were persecuted, but they've stood firm.。
So we've seen that as we're looking at the different churches, we wonder for a moment,。
is there any church that the Lord is pleased with?。
And then we come to the church in Philadelphia and we're like, yay, because this is the church。
where the Lord has only given positive comments.。
And not only that, but the rewards and the promises that he has in this chapter.。
So as a church, we should really open up our ears because how is it possible that even。
though no church is perfect on earth, and yet the Lord is able to give such good comments。
about it.。
So let us learn together so then we can also be a blameless church in His end times.。
So let's begin by reading from Revelations 3, verse 7 to 8.。
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write, the words of the Holy One, the true。
One, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens.。
I know your works, behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to。
shut.。
I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied。
my name.。
Now you know, after we read it, we're like, yes, we kind of get every single word, but。
no, I'm not quite sure what the Lord wants to say.。
I mean, what is the Lord saying here?。
Well, let's begin by looking at Philadelphia.。
Where is it?。
Well, it's located southeast of Sardis, which we've looked at last week.。
And basically it's in a territory where there's a lot of earthquakes.。
And it was so great that many times all the houses would break down and they'll have to。
move out.。
So it's a very unstable city for the people to live in.。
And not only that, but then the population is very small because they didn't, it wasn't。
stable, and so they stayed away most of the time.。
But the church that was in there, Philadelphia church, was actually praised by the Lord.。
And as we look further, we see that each time the Lord would describe Himself before He。
would talk about what He wanted to say to the church.。
But interestingly, this time, the description here, as you see in verse seven, was actually。
not a vision from chapter one, because all the other churches, when He described Himself,。
we could see bits and pieces from chapter one.。
But here it's standalone.。
And it's very special.。
He chose four different ways to describe Himself.。
And the very first one is, this letter was written by whom?。
The Holy One.。
Now when we hear the Holy One, who does it describe?。
It can only describe one, divine God.。
And so in the very first description, He says, "I'm the divine God that's about to give these。
words."。
And second, He says, "The true one."。
Because at that time, there were many gods, and people don't really know which one is。
true.。
But He says, "I'm the true one, not a false one, one that you can trust in."。
And then He continues to describe Himself as the one who holds the key of David, who。
opens and no one can shut, and who shuts and no one can open.。
We're not quite sure what door He's shutting, or what door He's opening at this moment.。
But it's actually a direct reference to Isaiah chapter 22, verse 22.。
If you read it, you'll see that it's almost the same.。
"And I will place on His shoulder the key of the house of David.。
He shall open and none shall shut, and He shall shut and none shall open."。
Because of the similarity, we know that it is drawing a reference.。
So if we understood Isaiah 22 here, it's going to allow us to understand why is it that He。
would describe Himself this way.。
And in Isaiah 22 here, actually King Hezekiah, he actually had chief stewards that would。
look after all the treasures that he had.。
And here he's saying that, "I'm passing it on to a new steward."。
And so when Jesus uses this verse to describe Himself, He's saying, "I have the key to。
the treasures."。
And for the stewards here, He has the key to an earthly kingdom.。
But when Jesus is referring it to Himself, He's saying that, "I hold the key to which。
kingdom?。
The kingdom of God."。
And so can you imagine, just at the beginning, just the very first line in Philadelphia,。
He's telling the people that, "I'm the divine God.。
I'm the true one.。
I'm the one who holds the key to the kingdom of God, and I have access to it.。
It's at my disposal.。
And this God is about to speak."。
And I don't know about you, but if this God was about to speak, I would think, "Oh my。
gosh, He's all the way up here.。
Whatever it is that He's about to say, I would never measure up."。
And yet, miraculously, Jesus here, our Lord right here, says nothing bad about this church.。
And so what does He say?。
He says, "I know your works.。
Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut.。
I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied。
my name."。
And so interestingly here, the Lord says, "I know your works," but He actually doesn't。
tell us.。
What did they do?。
I mean, we try to look around, but He doesn't say.。
It just seems like the content didn't matter as much.。
But what matter is the Lord wanted to emphasize that I have my eyes on you.。
I see everything that you do.。
That's the message that He wants to tell the church in Philadelphia.。
But why would He say that?。
And He says that, "I have set before you an open door."。
Remember in the last verse, He just says, "The kingdom of God and all His treasures。
is at His disposal."。
And now He's saying, "I've seen your work, and I'm opening that door for you.。
The door to the kingdom of heaven, the door with treasures and blessings, I am opening。
it for you."。
And so by the time we get to this verse, we'll be like, "Oh my gosh, the Lord is。
pouring out to this church."。
Now He could have just stopped there.。
"Behold, I've set before you an open door," and that would be enough, right?。
But He adds on, "which no one is able to shut."。
Can you imagine the amount of blessing that the Lord wants to pour out in the church of。
Philadelphia?。
And then He says, "I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept My。
word and have not denied My name."。
Now why is it all of a sudden He mentions this little power?。
Well, the Lord wants to tell them that it isn't because you're this spiritual giant,。
this great church, and that's why you're able to do everything.。
It is because even though you only have a little power, or some commentaries even say。
because there are very few of you, even though there were such limitations in what you have,。
you were still able to keep My words and not deny His name.。
And because of that, the Lord is blessing him.。
And so it comes to our first point I want to share with you, which is the Lord opens。
doors for the faithful.。
It isn't because the church of Philadelphia had more people, had more resources than other。
churches.。
It wasn't because of that.。
And it wasn't because of what they've done, like they've detailed out, "All right, you。
have done 30 evangelistical meetings, and you've gone to like 100 mission trips."。
It wasn't that.。
He didn't name any of those things.。
But that the Lord was pleased because of what?。
This church, it was faithful.。
Even though they had a little bit, they were faithful.。
And because of that, the Lord is willing to pour out to this church.。
And I like to think, and I strongly and truly believe that our church is like that.。
But we are a church where the Lord blesses us.。
I mean, just thinking back, a while ago it was our 35th anniversary, and just seeing。
how many faithful servants we've had in this church, where they've worked hard.。
They've started with not even a building, but just meeting here and there.。
And then slowly, the Lord opened its door, and He has blessed us.。
Now with a building, first one floor, and then He blesses us with another floor.。
Was it because we were more powerful?。
No, we're just like this church, with little power.。
And yet, because the Lord wishes to bless, it keeps on blessing the people.。
And also, I mean, just seeing how He has grown.。
We've started with just the Cantonese, and now we've got the Mandarin congregation.。
And look at us, we're a product of that too, the English congregation.。
And it's because the Lord has continued to open the door.。
And this year, even though with COVID, we have Titus Fellowship, who's now addressing。
to the high school kids.。
And we also have the English Mentorship Program, who's helping the local secondary schoolers。
to be able to learn English and know about God.。
And if you're not involved in that and you want to, you can let us know.。
We definitely need more helpers.。
And it's because there are so many faithful servants.。
And at the same time, just today, you see we're having a baby room that's coming soon.。
And I could see the Lord is opening His door.。
And that is where we need to continue to be a faithful servant of His.。
Now let's continue to read on.。
In Revelations chapter 3, we continue on with verse 9 to 10.。
"Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan, who say that they are Jews and are。
not, but lie.。
Behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet, and they will learn that。
I have loved you.。
Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of。
trial that is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth."。
Now we see this, we're like synagogue of Satan.。
But synagogues for Jews?。
Now if that was going through your mind, then you might have some background to the history。
and also at that time.。
What happened was during that time, most likely there were enough Jewish people, Jews, in。
the place of Philadelphia, where they had their own synagogue.。
But instead of serving the Lord and welcoming Christ, they actually persecuted Christ to。
begin with.。
And of course, they're also persecuting the Christians there.。
And hence, the Lord is calling them synagogue of Satan.。
Now if you remember, in Revelations chapter 2, verse 9, we've also seen a very similar。
verse where they say, "I know your tribulation and your poverty, and the slander of those。
who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan."。
So also in the church of Smyrna, where there was a lot of persecution from the Jews, the。
Lord have used the same words, which meant that right now, at that time in Philadelphia,。
they were also going through persecutions from the Jews.。
Now you might wonder, why is it that they're Jews but are not?。
I mean, are they talking about ethnicity?。
Is this an ethnic issue?。
Now we think it's not.。
I'm pretty sure that those people were born Jews.。
It is more of Jews in the heart.。
And if we look at Romans chapter 2, 28 to 29, we see that, "For no one," this is Apostle。
Paul saying, "For no one is a Jew who is merely one outward, nor is circumcision outward and。
physical.。
The Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the spirit, not。
by the letter."。
So as we see, we can see that in this church in Philadelphia, there were a group of Jews。
that were persecuting the Christians there.。
And what does the Lord say?。
The Lord says, "I will make them bow down before your feet."。
Now bowing down before your feet at that time wasn't like worshipping God.。
This is not the kind that Jesus is referring to.。
This kind of bowing down is when an enemy of yours has been defeated.。
They will bow down before you.。
Now interestingly enough, you know, Jesus could have just stopped there, you know, make。
them bow down, or even say, make them bow down before your feet because I love you.。
That would make sense.。
But here it says, "And they will learn that I have loved you."。
And so we're a little bit confused, you know, why is it that, why do you think Jesus put。
that in?。
Now it's most likely they're making a reference to Romans chapter 11, 13 to 14, where it's。
saying that they are, Jesus most likely wanted the Jews to be jealous, to be jealous at the。
love that the Lord has given mostly to Gentiles at that time, because not a lot of Jews have。
converted to Christians at that moment.。
And they wanted to make them jealous.。
And so this verse says, "Now I'm speaking to you Gentiles, inasmuch then as I am an。
apostle to the Gentiles," because Apostle Paul was mainly spreading the gospel to the。
Gentiles, "I magnify my ministry in order somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous and。
thus save some of them."。
And so here most likely Jesus is saying that, not only will I make them bow down to you,。
but then I'll make them know that I have loved you so that they will have a chance to turn。
back.。
And so we look at this and we see that in the next verse, Jesus says, "Because you。
have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that。
is coming on to the whole earth, to try those who dwell on the earth."。
And I will look at this and we know that Jesus is not only saying that, "I will deliver。
you from your enemies," not only that, but he says that in the hour of trial.。
And we don't know when that hour of trial is.。
But in that hour when the whole world has been trialed, and some people might think。
it's COVID and we're not drawing any conclusions, but isn't there a time when the whole world。
is undergoing a hard time?。
Says that they will be protected.。
Now in here, some people have different theories about how to look at this.。
It could be that when Jesus says that they will be kept, that I will keep you from the。
hour of trial, it's possible, some say that it is a rapture before the tribulation, before。
the great hardship.。
And there are other sayings that it is actually not taking them away from the world, but that。
even though they're going through it, that they will be protected by the Lord.。
So now what does this mean for us?。
Because it's like that in Philadelphia.。
But what about us?。
I mean, in everyday life, we're still going through some sort of trial.。
Rather people are persecuting us, well, we don't have to die for it, thank God, but persecuting。
us because of our faith, or even, and we might go through a hardship in our life, maybe with。
career, maybe with our health, with our relationship, and those are also hard for us to go through.。
Or maybe we might quarrel with someone and we don't know what to do with it.。
And here, the Lord is showing us that He is a Lord who vindicates and who protects us.。
And so as we are faithful to Him, as we continue to follow His words, and as we continue to。
not deny His name, He will be the one that vindicates for us and the one that protects。
us, even in the hour of trial.。
And so it should give us Christians great comfort when we're going through hardships。
that the Lord will vindicate and protect us.。
And so let us read on in verse 11 to 13.。
"I'm coming soon.。
Hold fast what you have so that no one may seize your crown.。
The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God.。
Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my Lord and the name of。
the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down from my God out of heaven and my。
own new name.。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches."。
Now notice that the Lord says, "I'm coming," but actually in the few previous churches。
when He said that, you probably don't want it to happen.。
Because the previous churches, like to the church in Ephesus, He says, "I will come。
to you and remove your lampstand."。
It's like, I'm going to come to you and close down your church.。
And or to the church of Pergamum, it says, "I'm coming to make war with you with the。
sword of my mouth."。
And with the church of Sardis, it says, "You'll not know the hour that I come.。
I'll come like a thief."。
Now in all these cases, it's bringing on judgment into the church.。
And yet here, when He tells the church in Philadelphia, "I am coming," He's coming。
for them.。
He's coming and He's asking them to hold fast, just hold on tight a little bit longer。
so that no one will take their crown.。
And so this is a very image that when we are conquerors, we're going to get this crown.。
And this crown that has been talked about here has been talked about in John chapter。
two, verse eight as well, where He says, "Watch yourselves that you do not lose what we have。
accomplished, but that you may receive the full reward."。
So it's like going through our lives.。
As we're faithful, we will get that crown, that reward.。
And if we continue and persist, then the Lord has rewards for us.。
And what are those rewards?。
And we look at those, it's like, I know, it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense for。
us to want a pillar in the temple, but it'll make more sense in eternal sense.。
Let me tell you why.。
Because a pillar in the temple at that time meant that the honored people's names would。
be engraved in these pillars.。
And remember in Philadelphia, they were actually in a place where there were a lot of earthquakes.。
So what that meant was their home was always shaken.。
And today they might be well here, but the next day they might need to move out and come。
back and rebuild it.。
But to them, this will be an eternal home, immovable, unshakable.。
And so this is what the Lord is promising them as a reward.。
You, I will make Him.。
So they would be these pillars in the temple of my God.。
And never shall we go out.。
And I write on Him the name of my Lord.。
Now to be written, to belong to the Lord meant that, to have His name on them means that。
they would belong to the Lord.。
And at the very end, it also says that they will have the name of the city of my God,。
the new Jerusalem written there.。
What does that mean?。
It means that they're going to get a new citizenship.。
It's not a citizenship on earth.。
It's a citizenship in heaven, eternal, forever.。
And that's what the Lord is promising them.。
And finally it says that they will have my own name.。
So this really is a reward of how they are going to have a place, a citizenship, that。
they belong to the Lord in new Jerusalem.。
And of course, we end this passage with, "He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit。
says to the churches."。
And so what we see in the last three verses is that the Lord is a Lord who rewards His。
faithful ones.。
And we have seen that throughout the five churches so far, and this is our sixth church.。
And we know that the Lord asks of the Philadelphians to be faithful and continue on doing that.。
Now I know it's not easy because we don't even know.。
What does it mean to be faithful every day?。
I mean, are we faithful every day?。
How do we know we're faithful every day?。
What does it look like to be faithful every day?。
What does it look like?。
Have you thought about it?。
Are you faithful to the Lord?。
How do we know?。
And so I want to share a little bit about what faithfulness might look like in our everyday。
life.。
Faithfulness is not being this gigantic spiritual giant where you can memorize the Bible verse。
by verse.。
And it isn't meaning like you come to church every single week.。
That makes you faithful.。
But what is faithful is that we would be able to do with what we have and give it to the。
Lord.。
Let me tell you what it was like.。
There was a time in my life when I shared a little bit in another sermon where because。
of a failed relationship, I've also gone south with my career because I quit my job back。
then.。
I was in a really bad emotional state at that time.。
And it was so bad that I didn't even want to live, let alone be a Christian.。
And I thought to myself, what's the point?。
What's the point of being a Christian?。
I've been a Christian like 20 years of my life at that time.。
But things are just still not working out.。
I mean, I go to church, I do these, and I pray.。
What's the point?。
And I really thought about maybe this whole Christian thing, God.。
I can put it down.。
Maybe.。
And I just thought, you know, in those moments of hardship, it just doesn't seem to make。
sense to keep going.。
And yet, the little power, the very little power in my heart knew that.。
But the Lord is real.。
I don't know how it's going to happen, but I know He's real.。
What can I do?。
Because I have such little power.。
And it was at that time, and there was nothing to do, that I just did the only thing I could。
do.。
And do you know what that was?。
To pray.。
That takes zero effort, almost.。
You can lie on your bed, you can be anywhere, and just pray.。
But because of that prayer, things started changing.。
And I wouldn't even be able to flip the Bible open, because I was in such a bad state.。
And did you know what I had done?。
Just what I could.。
And what was I able to do?。
I was able to take my phone out, turn on to YouTube, and listen to a sermon.。
You know, that takes about this motion.。
That was the only ounce of effort I had.。
And the Lord opened the doors with just that little effort.。
And I think within a year, I've heard a thousand sermons, about three a day.。
And that started to change me, because the Lord started to open up His doors to heaven.。
It started pouring down, and I finally began to have a relationship with Him.。
To know Him in a more personal way.。
And then I began to be able to read the Bible.。
And because He opened the door for me, suddenly the Bible verses that I never understood,。
it just popped up.。
It just made sense.。
And I didn't know why.。
It was the opening of the doors to heaven that the Lord chose to open.。
And so I believe that when the Lord asks us to keep on being faithful, He's not asking—。
He's just meeting us where we are.。
If you're going through a hard time with your career, and if you can't find out what to。
do next, maybe you can't even get a job.。
Maybe you're going through a tough time in your relationship, or you're not even sure。
if your family likes you.。
Like if there's a lot of things that we can go through in our lives.。
But the Lord says, if we're faithful with just the ounce that we have, whatever it may。
be in your case, He is able to open that door, and He will give us access to the heavens.。
And so today, as we read these verses, we see that the Lord wishes to bless us.。
And He wants to open the door for the faithful ones.。
And He will vindicate for us and protect us if we continue to be faithful, doing whatever。
it is that we have, the little ounces.。
And the Lord will reward us.。
And so, you know, sometimes we want to think, do we want to be working our lives, living。
through our lives for an extra footage in our apartment, or do we want to live our lives。
so that we would be the pillar in the eternal heaven?。
Do we want to have a citizenship elsewhere in the world where we get to live a different。
lifestyle, or do we want a citizenship in heaven?。
And with God's name written on us, with a new name, a new status that He would give。
us?。
And I think most of us would answer that we want the latter ones.。
And so let us continue to really continue to be faithful in Him.。
Whatever you are, whatever stage you're in with your relationship with God, He wants。
to meet us there.。
And when we give that little ounce of faithfulness, He will pour out to us, and He'll vindicate。
for us in whatever situation we're in.。
And the reward is also waiting for us.。
And so Jesus Himself alone is enough for us.。
And let us remember to never turn back, even in the hardest times in our lives, that we。
will press on, knowing that Jesus is enough, and that He's with us, and He loves us, and。
He'll meet us where we are.。
Let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you that even though we're weak, even though we have very。
little faith sometimes, that Father, you will meet us where we are, and you're just willing。
and wanting to open up heavens for us, to protect us in our hard times, and to reward。
us.。
And Father, we pray that in our walk with you, in our relationship, in our journey with。
you, Father, that you would continue to help us, that whenever any of us cries out, Father,。
that we'll know that you love us.。
I sense that some people here today may not feel that the Lord loves them.。
And Father, I pray for that truth to sink in, that it is your love that draws us.。
It is this relationship that you yearn for us.。
And so Father, we're praying a special blessing for those who don't feel you close, who don't。
feel your presence in their lives now.。
We pray that your Holy Spirit will fill them, and that you would help them to give that。
little ounce of faith, and continue their journey with you, and to love you.。
Father God, thank you for your love for us.。
Your love, your guidance, and your salvation is enough for us.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
