Good evening and welcome to KFC Online.。
So pleased to have your company this evening.。
We can't wait to get back together to see each other face to face.。
But in the meantime, please feel free to join in the service as we worship together as we。
sing this song about Jesus Christ, our cornerstone.。
[Music]。
My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness.。
I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly trust in Jesus' name.。
My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness.。
I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly trust in Jesus' name.。
Christ our Lord, cornerstone, weak but strong.。
In the Savior's love, through the storm, He is the Lord of all.。
While darkness seems to hide His face, I rest on His unchanging grace.。
In every high and stormy vale, my anchor holds within the veil.。
Christ our Lord, cornerstone, weak but strong.。
In the Savior's love, through the storm, He is the Lord of all.。
He is the Lord of all.。
When He shall come with trumpet sound, oh, may I then in Him be found.。
Dressed in His righteousness alone, faultless stand before the throne.。
Christ our Lord, cornerstone, weak but strong.。
In the Savior's love, through the storm, He is the Lord of all.。
Christ our Lord, cornerstone, weak but strong.。
In the Savior's love, through the storm, He is the Lord of all.。
He is the Lord of all.。
[Piano interlude]。
There was a moment when the lights went out, when death had claimed its victory.。
The King of love had given up His life, the darkest day of history.。
There on a cross they made for sinners, for every curse His blood atoned.。
One final breath and it was finished, but not the end we could have known.。
For the earth began to shake and the veil was torn.。
But sacrifice was made as the heavens roared.。
All hail King Jesus, all hail the Lord of heaven and earth.。
All hail King Jesus, all hail the Savior of the world.。
There was a moment when the sky lit up, a flash of light that came through.。
When all was lost, He crossed eternity.。
The King of life was on the move, for in a dark cold tomb,。
where our Lord was laid, a miraculous birth, a forever change.。
All hail King Jesus, all hail the Lord of heaven and earth.。
All hail King Jesus, all hail the Savior of the world.。
All hail King Jesus, all hail the Lord of heaven and earth.。
All hail King Jesus, all hail the Savior of the world.。
Let every knee, let every knee come bow before the King of kings.。
Let every tongue confess that He is Lord.。
Lift up your shout, let us join with all of heaven singing.。
Holy, singing holy.。
Cloud holy, singing holy.。
All hail.。
All hail King Jesus, all hail the Lord of heaven and earth.。
All hail King Jesus, all hail the Savior of the world.。
Thank you, worship team.。
I just wanted to say a few words about the next few weeks.。
Obviously at the moment, we're so keen to get back face to face,。
but at the moment government restrictions don't allow that to happen.。
Just to say that we're going to be back together as soon as we possibly can.。
But I just want to share with you a couple of things that we're doing.。
We're planning on the 2nd of May for all the churches,。
the international churches of Hong Kong, to gather together for an online service.。
We're going to be part of that.。
I want you to put that date in your diary now, 2nd of May,。
as we join with all of our colleagues in the different churches across this city。
to worship our God together.。
Then we'll be starting a sermon series in Esther.。
Because I want to tell you that you were born for such a time as this.。
The Esther story is one of the most realistic biblical accounts of God's providence,。
precisely because God seems absent.。
It shows how the unseen God often works through human history,。
not by miraculous intervention, but through completely ordinary events.。
In the book of Esther, a string of coincidences occur。
in order for the Jewish nation to be saved.。
A drunken and boastful king, a self-respecting queen, a beauty pageant,。
a sensuous girl, an overheard plot, and a timely insomnia.。
God even uses morally questionable decisions。
to work all things together for the good of his people.。
And through these inscrutable and seemingly insignificant means,。
he advances his purpose in the Esther story.。
God cares less about appearances and more about his sovereignty.。
Today, as we go through the coronavirus,。
if we can't see God at work in political decisions in Washington,。
or in medical ethics or healthcare, or in events in our daily life,。
we must not conclude he is not working.。
Esther teaches that in the providence of his people,。
he's working out salvation for his people.。
The Esther story is a reversal of the expected.。
What appears inevitable is not.。
Who appears powerful is not.。
Appearances are not what they seem.。
The author teaches us to make fun of the very forces that once threatened。
and will again threaten our existence,。
and thereby makes us recognise their triviality as well as their power.。
Today isn't the end of the story either.。
The powers that seem in control are not in control.。
The trajectory that seems inevitable is not inevitable.。
You were born for such a time as this.。
Welcome to the Esther story.。
We have this exciting opportunity happening in May.。
We're going to try and do Alpha online.。
So if you have friends or family that are interested in exploring life questions。
and basics about Christianity, you can invite them to join.。
And now I'm going to ask Bonnie and James to come and to pray for us.。
Lord, just thank you so much for giving us this time, Lord.。
Thank you so much for technology, Lord, that allows us to, yeah,。
to be really able to still come together to worship your word,。
to listen to your worship online,。
and to just hear Pastor Johnny preach the sermon on Jesus' resurrection.。
Lord, today I just want to pray for Hong Kong.。
I pray that in the midst of the economy, Lord,。
I just pray that you would continue to provide.。
I just pray that you would continue to give people hope, Lord,。
especially when we're in such a time of darkness, Lord.。
And I pray that where people are unable to find their life and hope, Lord,。
I just pray that you would reach out and touch them, that you would also, yeah, Lord,。
just allow us to comply with government regulations,。
but also find ways to care and love for our brothers and sisters in need.。
Lord, I just pray that you would send us out while we are able to still respect our authorities, Lord.。
Send us out to also share resources with people, to just care for them and to just love them.。
And yeah, Lord, I just pray that while you would also help those who are financially struggling, Lord,。
I also pray that you would, yeah, Lord, allow us to be your hands and feet.。
And Father, Lord, we also lift up this whole world in prayer.。
We truly believe that you have the whole world in your hands.。
And as the virus continues to spread around the world, we pray that your good news will also spread.。
And we pray that your kingdom will continue to move and work in the hearts of many.。
We pray for the church as a whole, your body, that you will guide,。
your spirit will guide us in how to respond and how to love and how to serve the communities that you've placed us in.。
We pray for the leaders in the world who have tough decisions to make every single day.。
We pray that you will grant them wisdom and love as they navigate these uncharted waters.。
So we thank you again for you, God, because you are faithful and you are good.。
We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.。
Amen.。
So I'll pray again.。
I'll just introduce him.。
Introduce him.。
Okay.。
And now I'll pass the time over to Pastor Johnny, who's going to be delivering us the Word today.。
Hi KFC.。
So awesome to be with you today.。
And today we're going to be talking about the King's resurrection.。
John last week did a great job of explaining to us the King's ransom.。
He went through Palm Sunday in which Jesus was celebrated as he went in and entered into Jerusalem.。
He talked about the Lord's Supper.。
And shortly after that, the King was betrayed by his own disciple.。
The King was then denied by his friend when he was in trial.。
The King was rejected by his people.。
Barnabas was chosen over this King.。
The King was stripped, beaten, and mocked.。
And then on Good Friday, the King was crucified.。
The King was crucified on the cross.。
And so the mood is very sad.。
The disciples dispersed like a sheep, like a shepherd, like sheep without a shepherd.。
They hid.。
And on that morning, Easter Sunday, the women came out.。
And we read in Matthew chapter 28.。
After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb.。
There was a violent earthquake, for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven。
and going to the tomb rolled back the stone and sat on it.。
His appearance was like lightning and his clothes were white as snow.。
The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men.。
The angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus who was crucified.。
He is not here. He has risen.。
Just as he said, 'Come and see the place where he lay.'。
Then go quickly and tell his disciples, 'He has risen from the dead and going ahead of you into Galilee.。
There you will see him. Now I have told you.'"。
We're going to talk about three things here today.。
The first thing that we notice is that the angel says, "He is risen.。
Jesus is king over death. Jesus is king over death."。
In these times, we've seen so much death.。
The latest tolls, tallies are there is over 130,000 deaths because of this coronavirus.。
People are fearing death. People are afraid to die.。
But Jesus conquers over death.。
Jesus is the only person that has died and rose again.。
Mohammed the prophet died and did not rise.。
Buddha died. Confucius died.。
But Jesus is the only one that died and rose again.。
He is the ultimate sacrifice for us.。
In the olden days, in the Old Testament, they had to bring a lamb to sacrifice to represent their sin.。
But Jesus is the ultimate sacrifice.。
We no longer have to bring a sacrifice because Jesus died once and for all.。
And now we no longer have to fear death as well because Jesus has conquered death on the cross.。
The second thing we notice is that he is risen, that the king is king over life.。
Jesus is king over life.。
The virus makes us reflect upon life, what life really is about.。
Life is short. Life is so fragile.。
Life on earth is finite.。
We treasure the important things. We start to treasure the important things during these times.。
The family that we have, the friends that we've met.。
We start to question what is the purpose of our life, the goals that we have and the accomplishments that we've made.。
The first thing that Jesus really proposes to us is that he came so that we could have life and have it to the fullest.。
Have it abundantly. He says that in John chapter 10, verse 10.。
So many people are alive but yet do not truly live.。
Jesus is king of life.。
Jesus says, "What good is it for a man to gain the whole world, all the riches, yet forfeit his soul?。
Or what can anyone give in exchange for their soul?"。
Jesus is king over life, life to the fullest.。
And in John it also says that now this is eternal life, that we may know the only true God and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.。
Jesus is not only king over this life but eternal life, the eternal life.。
If we know Jesus Christ, we have eternal life.。
And the last thing it says, the angel said, "He is risen just as he said."。
Just as he said.。
Jesus is the king of truth. His words are truth.。
Jesus claimed that in three days he would rise.。
Tear down the temple and in three days I will raise it again. That he would go away for a little while and then he will appear again.。
He is the truth. His words are truth.。
They tried to even suppress this truth.。
They, Rome, tried to put Roman guards to have a Roman seal of this tomb so that nobody could get this body.。
So that Jesus' words would not be true.。
But yet the angel came and opened the tomb and Jesus rose from the dead.。
The Jews also tried to suppress the truth.。
They paid the soldiers to say the disciples came and stole the body.。
But we know that the testimony of the disciples is that Jesus rose, he appeared and rose from the dead.。
Jesus also fulfills more than 300 prophecies in the Old Testament.。
His birth, his life, his miracles, the suffering that he had, the death and his resurrection was all prophesied in the Old Testament.。
And it has become true. He is the promise. The promise fulfilled as it was written in the Old Testament.。
So Jesus is king over death. He is our ultimate sacrifice.。
Jesus is the king of life. He is our Messiah.。
Jesus is king of truth. He is the promise. The promise fulfilled.。
We're going to continue to read verse 8 to 10.。
So the women hurried away from the tomb, afraid yet filled with joy, and ran to tell his disciples.。
Suddenly Jesus met them. "Greetings!" he said.。
They came to him, collapsed at their feet, and worshipped him.。
Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. There they will see me."。
Jesus met these women. And what happened? They collapsed at his feet and worshipped him.。
Muhammad was never worshipped. Right? Muhammad was never worshipped.。
He never said, "I am a prophet." Confucius was never worshipped.。
He never claimed that he was God. But Jesus claimed that he is the I Am.。
He is the Messiah. He is the Alpha and the Omega. The second person of the Trinity.。
He was there in creation. All things were made in and through him.。
Jesus accepted this worship. He didn't say, "Oh no, don't worship me."。
He accepted this worship as they collapsed at their feet and worshipped him.。
He is the Lord. He is our God. This is the King of the Universe.。
Jesus is King of our Universe.。
And lastly, we see that Jesus is a personal King.。
Usually kings are in their castles. They're protected by their secret security.。
But no, this king is a personal king.。
In the passage earlier, we saw that the angel instructed the woman to go tell the disciples that he's going to come to them.。
Jesus himself says, "Tell my brothers in Galilee. There they will see me."。
Jesus was in the tomb for three days.。
And the first thing he wanted to do when he came out of the tomb was to see his people.。
To see his disciples.。
He could have gone for a nice steak or another Passover dinner.。
No, no, he didn't do that. He wanted to go to see his people.。
And we know that Jesus appeared to more than 500 people.。
His disciples and over 500 people.。
And that is one of the reasons we know that Jesus did rise from the dead.。
Because of the testimony of these disciples.。
And later, their changed lives.。
That they were willing to die for this truth.。
Even to death on the cross.。
Some of them martyrs as well.。
Peter upside down on the cross.。
So Jesus is our personal king.。
He is a king that understands the things that we've gone through.。
In Hebrews, it says that we have a high priest who is able to empathize with our weaknesses.。
He understands the things that we've gone through.。
Yet he has overcome those things.。
Jesus is also a personal king that wants to know each one of you.。
He says in Revelation chapter 3 verse 20, "Here I stand. I stand at the door and knock.。
If anyone opens, hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that person and they with me."。
Jesus wants to be in your life.。
Are you willing to open the door of your heart to let Jesus in to your life?。
To be your Lord and Savior?。
So today we talked about five things.。
That Jesus is king over death.。
He is our ultimate sacrifice.。
He is the bridge that allows us to be restored with the Lord.。
He is the wrath of God was taken upon him.。
He is the king of life.。
He allows us to live life to the fullest and abundantly.。
He is eternal life.。
If we know Jesus Christ, we have eternal life.。
He is our Messiah.。
Jesus is king of truth.。
Every word he says is true.。
He is our promise.。
The promises that were fulfilled in the Old Testament.。
He is the king of the universe.。
The women worshipped at his feet.。
He is our God.。
And lastly, he is a personal king.。
He is a king that understands the things that we've gone through.。
He is our high priest.。
And he wants to be the king over your life.。
Is Jesus king in your life?。
Is Jesus king in your life?。
I think as I've grown up throughout the teenage years,。
I've started to logically understand more and more that all the religions of the world teach that you can do something.。
In Islam, you have to pray five times a day.。
You have to go to the pilgrimage in order for Allah to accept you.。
In Hinduism, you have to worship all these gods and fulfill all their things so that they will save you.。
But only in Christianity is it that we cannot save ourselves.。
That we need a savior.。
We need Jesus Christ.。
And I logically began to understand that more and more.。
And when I understood that logically, Jesus became the king over my life.。
Recently, my friend just became more and more serious about Jesus.。
And as he was having dinner with his father, his father was like, "This is the golden age of your life.。
You're in your 30s. Now is the time to make money and prosper."。
And he's like, "I now have a new perspective of life."。
This new perspective is that life is more than just this world.。
There is eternal life.。
Jesus has become king over his life.。
And now I'm going to invite Paul.。
And he's going to share a little bit about how Jesus has become king over his own life.。
So, Jesus being king over my personal life has really been something that's been happening over time。
as He's been weeding out different aspects.。
But one clear moment to me in my life was really when I was 18.。
God was really talking to me about taking my faith more seriously.。
And part of that was actually just giving up getting drunk and going out drinking.。
At that time, it was really difficult for me.。
It didn't even make sense.。
It was something I could hide my insecurities behind, such as fear of not being able to relate to people.。
And even as a Christian, I just found it hard to reconcile that and make sense of it.。
But it was what I needed to do, and so I had to do it.。
And then, I'm reflecting, at that time I was allowing drinking to actually guide my actions and my thoughts。
more than what I was allowing God to and allowing Jesus to.。
And so, I was actually drinking more authority than I was giving Jesus.。
So, that authority needed to go back, whether or not it made sense to me at that time.。
And so, I'm not sure if that's the most significant, but it was definitely the most significant to me in feeling。
as it was quite difficult.。
Since then, really, it's just been a process of God showing different areas to me where I need to hand that authority back to Him,。
whether that's how I spend my time, the words that come out of my mouth, and just different areas like that。
where I've wanted to have my own rule, and just on each of those areas, God's pressed me just to allow Him to be king in that.。
Thanks so much, Paul.。
And I'm hoping today that if you have not allowed Jesus to be in your life, to be king over your life,。
that you could make a decision today.。
And I would love to pray with you.。
And you can make this decision as we pray to God.。
Prayer is our communication with God.。
God is not as concerned with the words of your mouth as He is with the attitude of your heart.。
And so, if you would like to invite Jesus to be king over your life, we can pray now.。
Pray with me.。
Dear Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ and what He did on the cross.。
His death and His resurrection.。
And in three days, He proved that He is king over death.。
He is king over life.。
He is king of truth.。
The king of this universe, our God.。
And He is a personal king.。
And now, Lord, I want to invite you into my life to be my Lord and Savior.。
Would you come into my life and make me the person you want me to be?。
Forgive me of my sins.。
In Christ's name I pray. Amen.。
Bless you, KFC.。
And I pray that, Lord, you would take this message of our Lord's resurrection to your friends and your family as well.。
God bless you.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
The moon and stars, they wept.。
The morning sun was dead.。
The Savior of the world was fallen.。
His body on the cross.。
His blood poured out for us.。
The weight of every curse upon Him.。
[Music]。
One final breath He gave.。
As heaven looked to Him.。
The Son of God was laid in darkness.。
A battle in the ground.。
The war on death was raised.。
The power of hell's scepter broken.。
The ground began to shake.。
The stone was rolled away.。
His perfect love could not be overcome.。
Now death, where is your sting?。
Our resurrected King has rendered you defeated.。
Forever He is glorified.。
Forever He is lifted high.。
Forever He is risen.。
He is alive.。
He is alive.。
The ground.。
The ground began to shake.。
The stone was rolled away.。
His perfect love could not be overcome.。
Now death, where is your sting?。
Our resurrected King has rendered you defeated.。
Forever He is glorified.。
Forever He is lifted high.。
Forever He is risen.。
He is alive.。
He is alive.。
Forever He is lifted high.。
Lifted high.。
We sing.。
We sing hallelujah.。
We sing hallelujah.。
We sing hallelujah.。
The Lamb is overcome.。
We sing hallelujah.。
We sing hallelujah.。
We sing hallelujah.。
The Lamb is overcome.。
We sing hallelujah.。
We sing hallelujah.。
We sing hallelujah.。
The Lamb is overcome.。
We sing hallelujah.。
We sing hallelujah.。
We sing hallelujah.。
The Lamb is overcome.。
You've overcome.。
Now forever He is glorified.。
Forever He is lifted high.。
Forever He is risen.。
He is alive.。
He is alive.。
Now forever He is glorified.。
Forever He is lifted high.。
Forever He is risen.。
He is alive.。
He is alive.。
He is alive.。
Down the road of bliss you will stand.。
Your eyes are on Ted Kemp.。
He's overcome.。
He's overcome.。
He's overcome.。
He's overcome.。
He's overcome.。
Thank you Pastor Johnny for that message.。
If you prayed that prayer, please tell someone.。
Please email us, Facebook us, anything.。
We'd love to hear from you.。
We'd love to get in contact with you。
and help you through this important time of your life.。
Also there's a worksheet attached to this sermon.。
Please take time afterwards to reflect,。
to go through this worksheet and complete it.。
Have a great week and we look forward to seeing you next week。
as we look at the Great Commission.。
Let's just pray together.。
Father God, we thank you for this service tonight.。
We thank you Lord for what you have done。
in the lives of the people watching it.。
And we pray your blessing on each one of us.。
Lord, guard us and guide us and keep us safe。
until we meet again.。
In Jesus name. Amen.。
Amen.。
[silence]。
