- And it's great to be here in the midst of what's happening。
and just to be able to preach God's word.。
And as Michelle said, we're continuing our series。
in Judges when everyone did as they saw fit.。
And so far, John took us through an introduction。
in the first sermon on chapter one and two,。
just an overview of Judges.。
And then Pastor James gave us a sermon。
on Ehud and Shemgar.。
And last week, we went through Deborah。
as Pastor Michelle took us through that.。
And today we are going through Gideon,。
the farmer who struggled to obey God.。
And so we're gonna start in chapter six of Judges.。
And it says this,。
"The Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord.。
And for seven years,。
he gave them into the hands of the Midianites.。
Because the power of the Midians was so oppressive,。
the Israelites prepared shelters for themselves。
in mountain cluffs, caves, and strongholds."。
And so we see in the book of Judges,。
this pattern of Israel sinning,。
going to the idols of their neighbors,。
doing things that God was not happy about.。
And what happened was that God would send people。
to oppress them, to punish them.。
And once they're, you know,。
got to a certain point where punishment got so strong,。
Israelites would cry out to the Lord,。
"God, help us in this.。
We're so, you know,。
oppressed by these different enemies that you've sent us."。
What would they do?。
They would turn back to God in repentance.。
And then what would happen after that。
is God would deliver them.。
They would send judges, right?。
Just like Deborah, Ehud, and others.。
Today, we're gonna see Gideon,。
and there would be a time of peace.。
There would be a time of peace.。
And so between Deborah and now,。
there's been a time of peace,。
but then Israel went back into the cycle.。
And it says that the Midianites were sent。
to oppress Israel.。
And it describes Israel as locusts, right?。
And I know locusts have been on the news this year, 2020.。
Wow, we've had viruses, we've had fires,。
we had rumors of wars.。
We've had locusts, right,。
that have started from Africa,。
that moved to the Middle East.。
And we think it's like in South America now,。
and something like that.。
Locusts have been eating up all the crops.。
And so they describe,。
the Bible here describes the Midianites as locusts.。
They would come in and eat all of your food.。
Yes, all your food, all your goodies.。
They're gonna eat all your goodies, right?。
And it's sort of like when UN declares economic sanctions。
on certain nations that have done corrupt things, right?。
They want to sort of take away their economic power。
because of their corruption.。
And that is sort of the strategy。
that the Midianites used against Israel.。
They took away the crops, they took away their goodies,。
they took away their livestock.。
And the Israelites then cried out to the Lord,。
"God, help us."。
And God sent a prophet to tell them。
that just as I have saved you from Egypt,。
I will send a deliverer as well to save you.。
And so we start in verse 11.。
There's a change of events in verse 11.。
"The angel of the Lord came and sat down。
under the oak in Opera that belonged to Joash,。
where his son Gideon was threshing wheat in a wine press。
to keep it from the Midianites.。
When the angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon,。
he said, 'The Lord is with you, mighty warrior,。
mighty warrior.'"。
So I don't know if anybody's been to a wine press before.。
Anybody stepped on grapes on a wine press,。
got their feet all purple and red?。
Yeah, anybody?。
No, okay.。
Well, back then, I think this might've been,。
I don't know exactly,。
but this might've been a wine press.。
That's where you step on grapes and you try to make wine。
and it hopefully comes fermented.。
And so what was Gideon doing?。
Gideon wasn't making wine, was he?。
No, he was threshing wheat.。
And so what they usually did in the olden days。
was they went to a wide open space,。
they would throw wheat in the air,。
and hopefully the wind would separate。
the wheat from the chaff, right?。
But Gideon wasn't doing that in a wine press, right?。
I mean, Gideon wasn't making wine in a wine press.。
He was threshing wheat.。
And why was he doing that?。
We know that he was hiding.。
He was afraid.。
And it's interesting because the angel of the Lord。
says this, ironically, "Mighty warrior," right?。
For somebody who's hiding in a wine press, threshing wheat,。
trying to not get caught by the media knights,。
an angel of the Lord says, ironically,。
that he would be a mighty warrior,。
or he calls him a mighty warrior.。
And chapter six in Judges is a story。
of the character development of Gideon,。
how he grows from a doubter to a believer,。
and then from a believer to a warrior of God,。
from a doubter to a believer,。
from a believer to the warrior of God.。
And so we see that this conversation continues.。
In verse 10, or verse 13, Gideon says,。
"Pardon me, Lord, but if the Lord is with us,。
"why has all this happened to us?。
"Where are all the wonders。
"that our ancestor told us about?"。
Right?。
And so Gideon here doubts that God is with Israel.。
And then he doubts that God can do these wonders, right?。
Where is this wondrous God who saved Israel?。
And he also questions that God has abandoned them, right?。
He says, "But now the Lord has abandoned us。
"and given us into the hands of the Medianites."。
We see here that Gideon is doubting, doubts God,。
doubts the wonders of God,。
and doubts that God is with them,。
and that God has in fact abandoned them.。
And so what is this conversation?。
How does it go?。
Well, the Lord responds and says,。
"Go in the strength you have。
"and save Israel out of Median's hands.。
"Am I not sending you?"。
God tells him that he will go in the strength.。
He should go in the strength that he has.。
And in a sense, God is meeting Gideon where he's at.。
God tells him to go and save Israel。
through his own strength,。
through the strength that he's been given.。
In a sense, God is commissioning him to go.。
And so we see here that God responds firstly。
with reassurance that Gideon has what he needs。
to go and defeat the Medianites.。
And so God doesn't tell Gideon to do the impossible.。
God tells him to go in the strength he has。
and to trust him with the impossible.。
And God also tells us to do similar things,。
that we aren't supposed to do the impossible.。
The impossible is for God.。
And God only wants us to do the things that we can。
and trust him with the impossible.。
And so this conversation continues.。
It's sort of like Moses and God at the burning bush.。
He's making all sorts of excuses.。
And then Gideon continues, "Pardon me, Lord,。
"but can I save Israel?。
"My clan is the weakest and I'm the least of my family."。
He's making excuse after excuse.。
My clan is the weakest, I'm the weakest of my family.。
It's like saying, "I can't play basketball.。
"I'm the shortest person."。
And, "I'm," nevermind.。
I'm (laughs)。
And so how does the Lord respond to this, another excuse?。
The Lord says, "I will be with you."。
He reassures Gideon, "I will be with you.。
"And you will strike down all the Medians,。
"leaving none alive."。
God reassures him once again.。
And yet Gideon is still not convinced.。
Amazing, right?。
So what does he say in verse 17?。
"If now I have found favor in your eyes,。
"give me a sign that it is really you talking to me."。
Gideon is thinking, "Oh, he must be in a wine press.。
"He might have like breathe in all the alcohol。
"or something, I don't know, from the wine press.。
"I don't know how it works.。
"Maybe he thought he was hallucinating, right?。
"Like God, give me a sign.。
"I'm still not sure.。
"Please do not go away until I come back。
"and give you an offering."。
And the Lord responded once again and says,。
"I will wait until you return."。
And so we see here through this conversation。
that Gideon is a doubter.。
He doubts God's favor with Israel.。
He doubts his own ability.。
I'm the least of my clan.。
My clan is the least of Israel.。
I can't do this, right?。
And he also doubts God's word and affirmation。
that he would be with him。
and in fact is now testing God.。
I remember when I was young and in high school,。
which was not so far long ago, obviously,。
that I was called to be one of the group leaders。
of my high school fellowship, right?。
Of my high school fellowship.。
And I thought, "Yeah, this is cool.。
"I get to lead.。
"People are gonna look up to me.。
"It's gonna be awesome."。
And then I started leading.。
And then these people, you know how it is, right?。
Sometimes with your peers, right?。
In Chinese churches, they don't talk much.。
They're very silent.。
It's like picking brains, not picking brains.。
I don't know, pulling teeth.。
Sorry, not picking brains, pulling teeth.。
(laughs)。
No picking brains allowed in KFC.。
It's like pulling teeth, right?。
Trying to get these peers, these teens,。
to talk about anything, right?。
And so they started complaining.。
And all of a sudden, I start going from,。
"Oh, I really wanna be a cell group leader,"。
to, "I don't wanna do this," right?。
Like people just complain.。
"I don't think I can do it.。
"I don't think people are listening.。
"I'm doubting myself.。
"I'm doubting why God has called me to this.。
"I am doubting."。
And I think we've all sort of been。
in those similar situations before, right?。
Whether God has called us to be a pianist,。
to be a pastor, to be a husband, to be a father,。
God calls us to these things.。
And sometimes we start doubting our own abilities.。
We start doubting God.。
We start doubting whether we're in the right situation.。
But the story of Gideon does not stop there, right?。
He doesn't stop at being a doubter.。
He continues from doubter to believer。
and from believer to a warrior.。
And so we're gonna see this process of becoming a believer.。
And so the first test we see that Gideon gives to God,。
"God, let me know that you're real。
"and I'm not just hallucinating."。
The first thing he did was he cooked some meat and bread,。
and made some bread, and he gave it back to the angel.。
And the angel said, "Take it out of the pot。
"and put it on the stone."。
And the angel touched it.。
And what happened?。
It burned.。
It burned.。
And right at that instant, Gideon believed.。
Gideon believed that it was God.。
And so he became a believer at that moment.。
And what happens?。
God prepares those he calls.。
God prepares those that he calls, and he equips them.。
And so the first preparation that Gideon was assigned。
was to go and destroy the idols。
that were in his neighborhood.。
God assigns him to go destroy Baal's statue。
and the Asherah, Paul.。
And so we have a photo of it, the next slide.。
This might've been what it looked like back then,。
these sort of different idols that were in the nation。
of Israel and in Gideon's neighborhood.。
And so what does Gideon do?。
He waits till nightfall, right?。
It's like "Mission Impossible."。
♪ Da da da da ♪。
Oh no, that's James Bond.。
I'm singing the wrong tune.。
Just testing you guys, right?。
(laughs)。
And so he does a little secret "Mission Impossible,"。
and he takes out 10 guys, right?。
Usually Tom Cruise only has like four or five, right?。
He's a small crew.。
But Gideon, this is a big job, right?。
These are big idols.。
And so he takes 10 people.。
And what does he do?。
He takes away, he pulls down the idol, Baal's idol,。
and then he uses the wood of Asherah。
as an altar for the Lord.。
And then next morning, all the neighborhood wakes up。
and is like, "Who did this?。
Who did this?"。
And they're like, "It's Gideon."。
And Gideon's dad actually stood up for him, right?。
He's like, "If my son,"。
not that he's from Texas or anything,。
"But if my son did this,。
then Baal will take his own revenge," right?。
So that was preparation number one.。
That was preparation number one,。
mission impossible number one.。
Go and destroy, rid your neighborhood of the idols.。
And then the second thing God tells him to do。
is to go and assemble the people of Israel。
for battle against the Midianites and the Malachites.。
And so he does that,。
and he assembles the people throughout the nations, right?。
Not throughout the nations, throughout the tribes of Israel.。
And before they go into battle,。
once again, Gideon needs reassurance, right?。
Who's asked God for reassurance before?。
Before a major decision?。
Yeah, coming to Hong Kong, right?。
All three of these pastors.。
We needed assurance that this was the place。
that God has called us.。
And so let me read in verse 36 here.。
God said to Gideon,。
"If you will save Israel by my hand, as you have promised,。
look, I will place a wool fleece on the fleshing floor.。
If there is dew only on the fleece。
and all the ground is dry,。
then I will know that you will save Israel by my hand,。
as you have said."。
And that is what happened.。
Gideon rose up the next day,。
he squeezed the fleece and wrung out the dew,。
a bowl full of water.。
And so you would think, oh yeah, you know,。
one test, one assurance from God is enough.。
But no, Gideon wants more.。
You know, he's very unsure.。
Verse 39, Gideon said to the Lord again,。
"Don't be angry with me.。
Let me just make one more request.。
Allow me to do one more test with the fleece."。
And this time it was the reverse, right?。
That the whole ground, the whole fleshing floor would be wet。
and the fleece would be dry.。
And yet God met him where he was once again.。
That night, God did so.。
God did so.。
And so we see this process of Gideon from a doubter,。
doubting whether God was with Israel,。
doubting himself to becoming a believer,。
being assured that God is real。
and that God is who he says he is.。
And then God preparing Gideon through a series of things,。
through a series of missions and preparations,。
ridding his neighborhood of idols。
and then assembling the tribes。
and some of the people towards battle.。
And so we see this process from a hiding farmer。
to a mighty warrior, a hiding farmer to a mighty warrior.。
And there are many examples throughout the Bible.。
We see King David, a small shepherd boy, right?。
To become a process of becoming a warrior for God.。
How did God prepare him?。
He was a shepherd.。
He had to take on bears and lions。
that came to snatch away the sheep.。
And God used those as tests and trials and preparation。
for him to meet Goliath on that day.。
And not only from a shepherd boy to a warrior,。
but then from a warrior to a king, right?。
There were many times he was struggling against Saul,。
fighting against Saul.。
And God prepared him in those lonely places to become king.。
And I can speak of my own experience.。
When I was 14, I was a pastor's kid, pastor's kid.。
You love it, I know.。
I know, Reuben.。
And 14, I was in a summer camp。
and we usually have three dedication night altar calls.。
The first is to come to a relationship with Christ.。
The second is to live for Christ.。
And the third one was to serve God full-time.。
And I remember that night,。
I was so moved by the Holy Spirit。
that Jesus had given up everything for us.。
What was my response?。
My response is, it's a no-brainer.。
I got to give up everything for him.。
And so if God was calling me to full-time service。
and to serve him as a pastor or a missionary,。
I would be willing to go.。
And of course, at that time, I was 14, right?。
Which was not too long ago, obviously.。
I had my own doubts.。
I didn't know.。
And God used being a soul group leader.。
God used being a worship praise band leader,。
these kind of steps to prepare me for who I am today.。
And God used seminary to equip me in my knowledge。
and understanding of the word of God。
so that I could become who I am today.。
And so we always see that throughout this process,。
there is a calling.。
God calls us always from something to something.。
We go through sometimes periods of doubting.。
Maybe sometimes it's longer for some and others,。
it's quicker.。
And then we start to believe, it's believing.。
Yes, that God, you are true, that yes, God,。
you have called me.。
And then next, we start to rise up.。
Even though we're not fully assured that we could do it,。
we start to trust God with the things we cannot control.。
And we take hold of God's calling in our life.。
And this process, as you see on the screen, it continues.。
There's new callings that come up all the time.。
New callings that come up all the time.。
David from shepherd boy to warrior, from warrior to king.。
Johnny from pastor's kid to going to seminary。
and from seminary to Hong Kong and to Hong Kong。
to becoming a pastor.。
It's a process.。
God is always calling us from something to something.。
And so where is God calling you today?。
Here are some steps that I think that will help us。
to go from doubters to believers。
to warriors and servants of Christ.。
Number one, realize your calling.。
Realize your calling.。
You can't go anywhere if you don't know。
where you're being called to, right?。
It's a no-brainer.。
Now, there are general callings in the Bible, right?。
Great commission, go and make disciples.。
We've been all called to go and make disciples。
of all nations, right?。
We've been all called to be a kingdom of priests.。
Sometimes God gives us specific callings。
to go and do mission work or to be pastoring.。
Sometimes God tells us to use our vocation,。
our work to serve him.。
Where has God called you?。
The second thing is understand your doubts.。
Sometimes we doubt, right?。
It's natural, it's human.。
Gideon doubted, I've doubted, James has doubted, right?。
He's talked about it, coming to Hong Kong,。
you know, his family, bringing his whole family.。
It's a tough decision.。
Understand your doubts.。
And then what I really appreciate from Gideon。
is he was just honest before God.。
He was honest.。
Tell God your worries.。
Tell God some of the things that you're struggling through.。
Maybe not make excuse after excuse like him,。
but tell him the things that you're going through.。
And then next, ask for his confirmation, right?。
God will speak to you.。
I believe God will speak to you personally。
through his word as you seek him.。
Sometimes we need spiritual counsel to advise us,。
is this the right decision?。
You know, coming to Hong Kong,。
I had to ask some of my best friends,。
my family, my parents, and they all advised me。
that this was a great opportunity。
and that God was opening doors.。
And as he opened doors, it was a confirmation。
that I should come.。
And then the next thing is we need to rise up in faith,。
rise up to the calling that God has called you to.。
There may be doubts that you have of yourself,。
but in your weaknesses, we must trust God。
with the things we can't control.。
God's not asking you to do the impossible.。
He's asking you to go in the strength that you have。
and trust him to do the impossible.。
I'm gonna invite the band to come up as we finish.。
And so I wanna conclude with this question.。
This is you.。
Where is God calling you?。
He's calling you from something to something.。
Maybe you're a student in high school.。
God, you know, you're asking God,。
"God, where should I go for university?。
"I'm not sure."。
God is calling you from a place to another place.。
Maybe you're working, right?。
And God is like, God wants you to serve more。
or spend more time in certain area.。
Maybe it's at church, maybe it's at family, to serve him.。
Where is God calling you?。
Whatever life stage you're at,。
God is calling you from wherever you are。
to become a servant of God, a servant of God.。
Let me pray for us as we finish.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for the story of Gideon.。
We thank you that even though he had his doubts,。
that God, you assured him of your presence in his life.。
You assured him that you would be with him。
and that he would defeat the Midianites。
because of your power.。
And so God, we don't need to do the impossible.。
We just need to trust you,。
that you have given us the strength to do it。
and that we need to go in the strength that we have。
and trust you with the things we cannot control.。
And so God, I'll pray for every person。
that is watching right now,。
that God, you would speak to them personally,。
tell them where their calling is。
and where you want to lead them.。
And I pray that each one of you would rise up in faith。
just as Gideon did。
to become a servant of God.。
Bless you.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
(piano music)。
