Isaiah 9 verse 6 has been a favorite verse of mine for many years.。
I think it goes back to when I was in a youth group as a child and I remember, I can't remember。
the context of this play I was in, but I can remember coming out, holding a baby, well。
it wasn't a baby, it was a plastic baby, you know what I mean, a drama baby, holding it。
above my head and quoting Isaiah 9 verse 6.。
When the subjects came out, the wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father,。
I grabbed everlasting father.。
And I wondered why I grabbed it and then about two or three weeks ago I heard Ken's testimony。
for the first time.。
How his father had been such an important part of his journey, but how his father had。
died.。
My own father died when I was a teenager, I was 17 when my father died.。
And I remember the day he passed away, he called me in and his last words to me were。
these, "Son, take care of your mother."。
And you know, a few years ago I felt very much of the same call that God the father。
was calling me to his side and saying to me quite specifically, "Son, take care of my。
church."。
And I really sense that is a call that's upon me and upon Sandra and we've seen this manifest。
in the fact that we have children all over the place and that we're father and mother。
to so many.。
And yet tonight I'm going to look at something that might be described as puzzling.。
But before we start, I need your help.。
I'm going to post a question and I want you to answer in the chat line.。
It's not difficult.。
It's actually this, what one word do you associate with the word father?。
Can you perhaps give us some answers there?。
What one word, when you hear the word father, what is the one word that you associate with。
it?。
We'll just wait for you for a moment.。
Authority, loving, provider, protector, obey, security, caring, protection again.。
Unpredictable, that's a good one.。
Love from James.。
Thank you, James.。
Strength, unconditional love, provision.。
My goodness, we're doing well here.。
Upright, says Gordon.。
Wow.。
Thank you so much for that.。
I want to go back to the verse.。
Incredible, wonderful.。
I want to go back to the verse that we are looking at tonight and read it to you again.。
I think we've sung it so many times already this evening.。
For unto us, unto us a child is born.。
Unto us a son is given and the government shall be upon his shoulder and his name shall。
be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father, prince of peace.。
I want to put this in context.。
In context, this verse is proclaiming the redemption of Israel and the activities, the。
titles, the blessings of the Messiah who is to rule the earth and usher in a reign of。
blessing and peace that will have no end.。
Can I repeat?。
No end.。
And one of his titles is everlasting father.。
Like the name mighty God that Johnny spoke about last week for centuries, this name everlasting。
father was shrouded in mystery.。
I mean, what mortal could have this title?。
Jesus had arms, legs, eyebrows.。
He screamed in a manger and by the way, I don't believe that line when they said the。
baby Jesus no crying he makes.。
I'm sure he screamed in the manger.。
But there is a dilemma here.。
In Isaiah 9, 6, the Messiah is described both as a son unto us a son is given and a father.。
His name shall be called everlasting father.。
Is he a son or is he a father?。
And that gives us a bit of a dilemma when we look at the Trinity.。
Father, son and Holy Spirit.。
And the first thing I want to say is that this verse has nothing, nothing to do with。
the precious Trinity relationship of father, son and Holy Spirit.。
This verse we know speaks of looks towards Jesus.。
Now we know he was a son.。
We've been singing about it.。
We'll be celebrating his birth in six days time.。
We have the Christmas season.。
But we also know that he was crucified when he was around 33.。
He never married and was never a father.。
And so what I want to do is unravel this.。
I want to attempt to cover three things.。
And I'm going to ask three questions.。
Number one, what is the meaning of the name everlasting father?。
Number two, is there any evidence that Jesus Christ is the everlasting father?。
And thirdly, what is the importance of the name everlasting father to believers today?。
And I'm going to take those one at a time.。
And what I want to ask firstly is what is the meaning of the name everlasting father?。
And the first thing I want to say, it is a name, yes.。
But it is also an expression of huge symbolic significance.。
And what I mean by this is the most common symbolic use of the word, the Hebrew word。
Abiyad, which is translated father, is that the Messiah is an eternal father.。
Meaning that he became a child in time through his birth, but he is the father and possessor。
of eternity.。
And this reveals several aspects of his character.。
And I'm going to use a number of scripture verses.。
I want to give thanks to Al Daily Bread for some ideas here.。
And if you haven't been reading it, this has been actually the best preparation for Christmas,。
the best devotion I've ever come across.。
Thank you, Al Daily Bread, one of KFC's partners.。
And the first thing, the first aspect of his character that it reveals is this, is that。
he inhabits and possesses eternity.。
In Hong Kong apartments, we have people who own them, landlords, and people who rent them.。
Tenants and rents are very high.。
But when it comes to eternity, Jesus is both the owner, it is his, his name is on the deed,。
and he also is the one who lives in it.。
When it comes to eternity, we can regard him as an owner-occupier, a landlord-tenant.。
Let's see it in this scripture.。
"For thus says the one who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy,。
I dwell, I live in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of a contrite and。
lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite."。
So that's number one.。
Number two, his name is eternal.。
The name Jesus is derived from the Hebrew name Yeshua, which means to deliver, to rescue.。
Jesus has delivered his people.。
Jesus is delivering and will forever be the deliverer, the rescuer.。
The Psalmist tells us, "May his name endure forever.。
May it continue as long as the sun, and all men shall be blessed in him.。
All nations will call him blessed."。
Number three, he is the eternal provider.。
Jesus not only delivers and rescues, he provides.。
We can take heart whatever our needs are, he will always provide.。
Always.。
At the very end of the Bible, at the end of Revelation, we read this, "He said to me,。
'It is done.。
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end.。
To the thirsty, I will give water without cost from the spring of the water of life.。
Those who are victorious will inherit all of this.。
I will be their God, and he will be my son.'"。
And lastly, he is eternal in all that he is and all that he does.。
This implies two crucial truths that will claim for God's Messiah, both in the Old and。
the New Testaments.。
Number one, he is pre-existent.。
Think about this for a moment.。
Before the mountains were born, before the mountains were born, or you brought forth。
the whole world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God.。
And not only is he pre-existent, he is self-existent.。
In Exodus 3, God calls himself, "I Am."。
This name defines who God is.。
He is totally independent of his creation, and he is totally independent of time.。
He is the God who is Alpha and Omega, the God of the eternal present tense.。
He is completely self-dependent.。
Now you say this is all very well, but is there any evidence that Jesus Christ is the。
everlasting Father?。
And for this, I want to take you, if we can have the next slide, please, to the Gospel。
of John.。
In John 8, a fascinating dialogue occurs between Jesus and his religious antagonist, the Pharisees.。
Jesus called God his Father.。
The Pharisees called Abraham their father.。
And Jesus said that if Abraham were their father, they would do the works of Abraham.。
And they responded, we've got to get back at this, at least they were not born of sexual。
sin, implying that Mary had been sexually active before marriage, which of course is。
not true.。
And then they matched Jesus' claim by saying they all have one Father, God.。
And we read this, Jesus said to them, "If God were your father, you would love me.。
But I have come here from God.。
I have not come of my own, but God sent me.。
Why do you not understand my speech?。
Because you are not able to listen to my word.。
You are of your father, the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires."。
The Pharisees were making their claim to Abraham and the God of Abraham, but Jesus didn't back。
down.。
Instead, he clarified that their link to Abraham was merely physical.。
Then he makes the most amazing statement of all, wait for it, "Before Abraham was, I am."。
Just think about what he said.。
God had introduced himself to Moses in the burning bush.。
His name was I am.。
And Jesus said to the Pharisees before Abraham's time, "I was God, I am."。
Now in the mind of the Pharisees, he'd gone too far.。
They recognized by such a claim, he was making himself equal with God.。
The I am of the burning bush in Exodus 3.。
This claim so infuriated them that they picked up their stones to kill him.。
In retrospect, we can see more here than the Pharisees' rage.。
We also see the one, the one who by his miraculous life, death, and resurrection had shown the。
right to the name that Isaiah's prophecy had declared 700 years before his birth.。
My friends, make no mistake.。
Those who reject the eternality of Christ also reject his deity.。
The two are inseparable.。
If Jesus is not eternal, he is not God and vice versa.。
Isaiah was saying that when Messiah came, he would be the physical embodiment of the。
everlasting father.。
The ability of Christ, of Jesus Christ to be a timeless source of fatherly protection。
and provision, which came up earlier when I asked you to describe what a father was.。
You talked about provision, you talked about protection.。
Is claimed a number of ways in the New Testament.。
Firstly, his character is described as eternally consistent and unchanging.。
Jesus Christ is the same today, yesterday, and forever.。
Secondly, his New Testament title, Alpha and Omega, uses the first alpha and the last omega。
letters of the Greek alphabet to symbolize that Christ is before everything and will。
surpass everything.。
Also John the Baptist, whose birth preceded Jesus, still recognized the eternality of。
Christ when he said, "This is he of whom I have said, 'After me comes a man who is。
preferred before me or has surpassed me because he was before me.'"。
Church, KFCI.。
He is the eternal one.。
And lastly, what is the importance of the name everlasting father to believers today?。
How does it affect all of us on this Zoom call?。
You and me.。
Well, the self-existence of Christ means that he will not leave us as all our earthly fathers。
eventually must.。
You've heard Ken's story.。
You've heard my story.。
Sadly, our fathers left us.。
This amongst many other facts makes the incarnation, the Christmas story, an amazing thing.。
The eternal God who took upon himself the limitations of a human body so that he could。
bring us into an everlasting relationship with himself.。
My friends, that's so important.。
I want to say it again.。
The incarnation, the Christmas story is a story of an eternal God who took upon himself。
the limitations of a human body so that he could bring us into an everlasting relationship。
with himself.。
Even though this world is marked with unfairness, inequity, suffering, those who believe in。
God's Messiah are in the hands of an eternal father and provider.。
As the author to the book of Hebrews says this, "Let your conduct be without covetousness.。
Be content with things, such things as you have.。
For he himself has said, 'Never will I leave you.。
Never will I forsake you.'"。
Look at those words, "Never."。
Never will I leave you.。
Never will I forsake you.。
This is the father who will never leave us.。
He maintains an eternal presence.。
He gives us life that is eternal.。
He graciously provides for those who realize that eternal values are what really counts.。
Matthew 6:33, I've put it there, says, "But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness,。
and all these things will be given to you as well."。
This year, 2020, is the year when many of the world's values have been stripped away.。
Those people who have bought their life upon money, power, title, possessions, it's all。
been stripped away.。
Can I just say, if he were only God for the length of our lifetime on earth, he would。
still deserve our reverence and trust.。
But as the God of eternity, he is worthy of our unending devotion and our most careful。
attention.。
Can I just finish with a challenge?。
May we take the time this Christmas to consider offering ourselves completely to Christ.。
Christ, who was the timeless one, who invaded time to rescue us from sin and self.。
The everlasting father who has given his life that we might have eternal peace with God。
and with one another.。
Just pause for a moment and maybe use this time of reflection to offer yourself to Christ。
completely.。
For those of us who are believers, where we maybe have relied upon our job, our parents,。
our money, our possessions, it's a good time for us just to release that and say, everlasting。
father, would you be completely Lord of my life?。
And if you haven't made that decision yet to follow him, maybe you're watching on YouTube.。
I don't know, maybe you got on the link by accident.。
I don't think it's an accident.。
Can I just challenge you?。
Jesus Christ, I recognize I've done things wrong in my life, things that the Bible calls。
sin.。
I believe that you are the eternal father who came to earth to die for my sins.。
I offer you my life.。
Lord you take my life this Christmas and use it for your glory.。
In Jesus name.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
