- Amazing.。
And I'm so excited about this new series,。
Women of the Old Testament.。
Do you know this will be our first thematic series。
since I think 2018,。
after a good number of Old Testament。
and New Testament books.。
I have to be honest with you,。
this has not come out of any deep spiritual revelation.。
But it occurred to me one morning in prayer。
that a good number of women。
have helped to shape biblical history.。
At a time in history,。
when they were culturally not regarded in their own right.。
Although the world has somewhat addressed these。
over the ensuing thousands of years,。
it is still held today in many cultures.。
And the church has not been immune to this。
with the reality of women in church。
were often restricted to being Sunday school teachers,。
piano players and organising bake sales.。
Now, indeed, I helped write a book last year.。
It was called "Disruptive Women" by Letitia Shelton.。
And I was probably inspired by this in choosing this series.。
In my chapter, I admitted that I had made some。
wrong decisions in my time based on gender.。
One example I quoted was instead of appointing。
a woman elder and Derek would know this story,。
a woman elder who was obviously gifted for the job,。
I appointed her husband instead.。
And even today we see so much of the church。
seemingly not appointing women to primary roles.。
I praise God for our female pastors, deacons。
and leaders at this church.。
Can I hear amen to that?。
But I wanna do something a little bit different,。
a little bit serious for a moment.。
I wanna repent on behalf of the masculine portion。
of the worldwide church for 2000 years of behaviour。
bordering on misogyny.。
And can I, on behalf of those men,。
speak to you here tonight who are ladies?。
And can I ask you to forgive us,。
forgive us for the way that women have been treated。
in the church.。
We have not given you the respect。
and the authority that you deserve.。
We've put you down there instead of on an evil level。
with us men.。
So would you please find it in your heart。
to forgive us for 2000 years of wrong.。
Now having got that off my chest,。
it makes me even more pleased to introduce this series.。
Now don't get me wrong,。
there were many great men in the Bible,。
perhaps a future series.。
But I believe that all of you will be blessed。
by this nine week series.。
Each of these women, you'll see the names on the screen,。
has a unique position in the framing。
of the story of scripture.。
And if we look into scripture, Rahab, Ruth,。
Bathsheba, admittedly Bill as Uriah's wife,。
and Tamar appear in the genealogy of Jesus。
in Matthew chapter one.。
Check it out when you get home.。
Now this is contrasted to Luke chapter one.。
His genealogy is 100% male.。
And what I found was that most of the women on the list。
are set apart by their willingness to be used by God,。
even when it was not easy or convenient.。
And that represents a huge lesson to all of us.。
I'm so pleased that Julian will be joining。
our preaching team for this series.。
And he will be preaching next week.。
Let's hear it for Julian.。
You might as well give him the round of applause now。
because you might not give him。
the round of applause afterwards.。
I'm just gonna say it, right, thank you.。
Now what this says, that this reaffirms our commitment。
as a church to the next generation.。
And I wanna start this evening by asking a question.。
Who is the most beautiful woman who ever lived?。
She's listening on YouTube actually.。
You wanna say it to the YouTube?。
We did a straw poll in the office.。
The most popular answer was my mum.。
I mean, not my mum, but my mum, you know.。
I'm always one for a little bit of a jerk.。
So I said JLo, Jennifer Lopez, but not really.。
A few of us were a bit more classical.。
And so we had answers like Helen of Troy or Cleopatra.。
And then others were a bit more spiritual.。
And we had a variety of biblical suggestions。
such as Mary, the mother of Jesus.。
But my friends, the answer is obvious.。
Eve, the most beautiful woman who ever lived.。
My goodness, that's a sweeping statement.。
I've got to justify it now.。
Why obvious?。
Eve was formed by God himself.。
She was formed from Adam's rib.。
I know we get the first joke.。
What was the first takeaway in the Bible?。
An order of spare ribs.。
I know where that comes from.。
But the key is this, that she was created before sin.。
Before sin had marred, had disfigured humankind.。
God had decided in Genesis 2, verse 18, an important verse.。
The Lord God said, "It is not good for man to be alone."。
Who says amen to that?。
"It is not good for man to be alone.。
I will make a suitable helper for him."。
Now be careful, in Hong Kong we have helpers.。
This does not mean I will make someone。
to cook his breakfast, right?。
Helper in the Old Testament,。
the word helper is used other than this about God.。
God is our helper.。
And what God was saying, I will make someone like myself。
who will be not an assistant, but a compliment.。
Let's read it in Genesis 2.。
Now the Lord God had formed out of the ground。
all the wild animals and all the birds in the sky.。
He brought them to the man to see what he would name them.。
And whatever the man called each living creature,。
that was his name.。
So the man gave names to all the livestock,。
the birds in the sky and the wild animals and the mosquitoes.。
But for Adam, no suitable helper was found.。
So the Lord God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep.。
And while he was sleeping, he took one of the man's ribs。
and then closed up the place with flesh.。
Then the Lord God made a woman。
from the rib he had taken out of the man.。
And he brought her to the man.。
The man said, this is now bone of my bones,。
flesh of my flesh.。
She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man.。
That is why a man leaves his father and mother。
and is united to his wife and they become one flesh.。
Adam and his wife were both naked。
and they felt no shame.。
I wanna pause on that for a moment。
on their naked and unashamedness.。
And the Hebrew word alumin, I've put it on the screen.。
Let's repeat that all together, shall we?。
One, two, three, alumin.。
Store that one for a moment.。
Eve was a wonderful, wonderful woman.。
She was indeed the mother of the human race,。
the first mother.。
Eve means mother of life, mother of all who have life.。
We have here the creation of Eve,。
the fact that God made her directly from his own hand.。
Woman came out of man.。
God created Adam, then God created out of Adam, Eve.。
Adam was the first one who came into the world.。
We read in 1 Timothy 2,。
for Adam was formed first, then Eve.。
And Adam was not the one deceived.。
It was the woman who was deceived and became a sinner.。
So Adam was created first.。
That does not mean that woman is inferior to man.。
It simply means the place that God has given her.。
And this is important.。
It's wonderful to know,。
to realise the position that God has given us.。
This is something we all must learn.。
It is not only true of man and woman,。
but of every phase in life.。
We must realise that God is operating in our lives。
and that he has a plan for our lives.。
And we must co-operate with God。
or things will be destructive for us.。
The first thing we read about Eve。
is that she was created from man.。
She came from man.。
God took a portion, a part of man and built it into a woman.。
The passage here reads, I'll read it again.。
"The Lord made a woman from the rib。
he had taken out of the man,。
and he brought her to the man."。
Literally, it says he built her into a woman.。
Secondly, woman is the creation of God.。
Woman existed in the councils of God,。
the plan of God, the thinking of God。
before God ever made her.。
Adam was in the mind of God before God ever made him.。
God conceived him.。
God was the great architect of the universe。
and of all things and of man.。
We read in Hebrews chapter 11 of a city。
that God is building,。
a city whose architect and builder is God.。
God is an architect and yet God is a builder.。
Not only of a city, but of all things。
and of the human body and of human life.。
God is the architect and God is the builder.。
And so he performed an operation on Adam,。
a divine operation,。
just as a doctor performs an operation on a body,。
removes an organ or a bone.。
So woman was in the plan of God,。
even as man was in the plan of God.。
The sexes were a plan of God.。
There is a rightness in the sexes。
that is in the plan of God.。
And when that plan of God is violated。
and wrongness comes in, there is trouble.。
Now, an interesting thing about Eve's creation。
is that here is a woman who never was a baby,。
never was a young child,。
never was a daughter growing up.。
When God created her, she just stood forth perfect,。
full blown mature in all her beauty.。
Adam was mature and God made for Adam a helpmate.。
He wouldn't give Adam an infant to be his helpmate.。
Adam had no boyhood, childhood, no youth.。
He was created mature, perfect from the start.。
Friends, this world did not just evolve.。
It was not a big bang.。
The world was created.。
And as Christians, we believe it was created by our God.。
You cannot get around the story in Genesis。
to save your life.。
God created man perfect, mature, cultured, intelligent,。
and with knowledge.。
God created man perfect in the beginning.。
God created woman perfect in the beginning.。
Perfect womanhood.。
That was our Eve.。
God made her for his own hand and presented her to the man.。
Another thing we see here is that God created Eve。
for a purpose, to be a helpmate for the man.。
Verse 20, "But for Adam, no suitable helper was found."。
That means that man is not complete without woman。
and woman is the complement of man.。
And she is not complete without man.。
They need each other.。
Eve was evidently one of the most beautiful persons。
of all time because she was created by God's own hand.。
And God says in his word,。
he made everything beautiful in its day.。
If any woman is beautiful today in physical beauty,。
when it is marred by sin,。
if any man is handsome today in physical beauty,。
when it is marred by sin,。
what must have been the handsomeness and the beauty。
of Adam and Eve before sin came in?。
They were created absolutely perfect.。
They were created beautiful beyond words.。
There was no knowledge of sin.。
Therefore, absolute beauty back in the beginning.。
So Eve must have been the most beautiful woman。
who ever lived, created by God.。
God cannot make anything ugly.。
Ugliness is the result of sin.。
All the original creation was absolutely beautiful.。
And my friends in heaven,。
there will only be beauty.。
The bodies God is going to give us in heaven。
will be beautiful.。
I say, amen to that.。
They will be divinely given,。
fresh from the hands of God.。
Men who do not have physical handsomeness。
will be handsome there.。
I say, amen.。
Women who don't have physical beauty will be beautiful。
in the presence of God.。
Eternal beauty will not be achieved by dieting。
and cosmetics and so on.。
The other day on television,。
it was a lady who was famous。
in the silent films of years ago.。
They called her a woman of eternal youth。
because she has taken care of her appearance。
in a careful way.。
But you know, she is not now what she was.。
The seeds of death are there.。
No matter how much a person diets。
and keeps away wrinkles and takes hormones。
and the rest of it, physical beauty fades.。
I'm a good example.。
It is under the sentence of death.。
The most beautiful face will become faded, aligned.。
The most handsome face will become marked with old age.。
But my friends, isn't it wonderful。
to anticipate eternal beauty?。
Yes, the day is coming when God will give us new bodies。
and they will remain beautiful throughout all eternity.。
So here was undoubtedly。
the most beautiful woman who ever lived.。
Eve, the mother of all living,。
resplendent in all her beauty before Adam,。
fresh from the hand of a creator with no sin, no sorrow,。
nothing but love, peace and joy.。
There they stood, perfect,。
sinless before their maker, innocent.。
Isn't that a beautiful picture?。
The sweet thing to me, friends, is this.。
We too shall be perfect and sinless over on the other side.。
I wouldn't miss it for anything in the world.。
And we sang it, we celebrated it.。
Jesus died to purchase it for us.。
Jesus died not just to save us from hell.。
His work was not only redemptive, it was restorative.。
His deliverance will include redemption for the body.。
What a wonderful word that is in Romans 8,。
I'll put it on the screen,。
waiting for the redemption of the body,。
eager for that perfect state that Adam and Eve enjoyed.。
Eve was the most beautiful woman the world has ever known.。
And I wanna return to this voice.。
Can you remember the Hebrew word I asked you to store?。
Alhumim.。
Adam and his wife were both naked and they felt no shame.。
As I said, the Hebrew word here for naked。
is the word alhumim, which literally means to be opened,。
to be laid bare.。
Actually, the concept is less about nakedness。
in a physical way and more about openness and vulnerability.。
To alhumim is to be completely exposed,。
to not hide anything, to have no secrets.。
It is the ultimate expression of trust,。
to be completely known by the other without any reservations。
and to be known in the same way by them in return.。
It is a posture of total availability。
when all that we are is offered outwardly。
in openness and love.。
When we are told that Adam and Eve were alhumim,。
it makes sense that they were also unashamed。
because alhumim by its very definition。
has no room for shame or hiddenness or secrets.。
God creates humanity in the posture of alhumim。
and it is a beautiful thing.。
It is his intention for humanity。
that we would be completely open。
and at ease before himself and each other.。
And that my friends is the picture that really summarises。
the close of God's creative process。
in Genesis 1 and Genesis 2.。
So what happens?。
Genesis 3.。
(congregation laughing)。
That's what happens.。
We know the story, don't we?。
Eve was tempted by the devil.。
She yielded to the temptation and went down into sin.。
She yielded to Satan and disobeyed God.。
And she lost not only her own state,。
but she pulled Adam down with her.。
Why? Because he loved her.。
His eyes were wide open.。
God blamed him.。
God said it was Eve that was deceived.。
She was more easily tempted,。
but Adam, don't get me wrong,。
went into the thing with his eyes wide open.。
What we can learn from this。
can be discovered in Genesis 3, verse 1.。
Now the serpent was more crafty。
than any of the wild animals that the Lord God had made.。
He said to the woman,。
did God really say?。
Did God really say,。
you must not eat from any tree in the garden?。
What did God say in Genesis 1-2?。
You can have all of those, but don't eat from the tree.。
And I believe there were three sins here.。
Firstly, the serpent twisted and contradicted God's Word.。
Secondly, Eve subtracted from and added to God's Word.。
And thirdly, Adam knew, but he disobeyed God's Word.。
Can you remember our last teaching series?。
It only finished last week.。
It taught us to beware.。
The voice that said,。
did God really say,。
is as real today as it was in the garden.。
Did God really say,。
I shouldn't sleep with my boyfriend before we are married?。
Did God really say, I shouldn't be watching pornography?。
Did God really say, I should honour my parents?。
I could go on.。
But what I do say is beware.。
Now, how many years Eve lived, we don't know.。
But we do know that after sin ended her,。
she began to lose her beauty.。
Something went out of her.。
There is a beauty of holiness.。
There are some women who have little physical beauty,。
but you see there's a beauty inside of them。
that isn't physical.。
It comes from the inside, a radiance, a state of mind,。
a soul, a serenity that makes them beautiful.。
And it is a beauty that doesn't fade.。
What will it be like when we have a perfect body。
and a perfect soul?。
Perfect inner beauty without sin.。
And this is an interesting thing, my friends.。
The naked and unashamedness, the alumin,。
has been replaced by deceit.。
And you know what the Hebrew word for deceit is?。
It is alum.。
Interesting, isn't it?。
Alumin has been replaced by alum.。
After the sin in the garden came conscience, condemnation.。
Condemnation always tears down.。
Sin always brings distress.。
Sin puts lines in the face.。
Though Eve's beauty lingered for a while,。
yet there was a gradual deterioration.。
Death set in, physical, mental, and spiritual death.。
Now, undoubtedly, she and Adam came back to God。
for God sought them out.。
We believe that.。
We hope that.。
But God does not tell us how long they lived.。
Perhaps it was hundreds of years,。
because in those days, if you read the Old Testament,。
they seemed to live longer than we do today.。
But there was a gradual deterioration.。
I believe Eve was a woman of faith.。
I believe she was a really saved woman.。
Why?。
Because she was looking forward to the birth of the Messiah.。
God had promised that from her would come forth the Messiah.。
He said the seed of the woman would bruise the serpent's head。
and though Eve, because she had fallen,。
brought forth children into the state of sin。
into which she had fallen.。
And we see this in the battle between Cain and Abel.。
And the first murder in the Bible came。
when one brother, Cain, killed the other, Abel.。
Beauty had turned to ugliness.。
Arumen had turned to Arum.。
And yet God promised that through Eve would come the Messiah,。
the son of Mary, and through him,。
the redemption that would bring back the human race,。
back to the state that she and Adam first enjoyed.。
Genesis 3:15 says this,。
"I will put enmity between you and the woman。
and between your seed and her seed.。
He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel."。
The Lord Jesus was the seed of the woman.。
Through Mary was fulfilled the promise of God to Eve.。
The reason I believe that Eve was a godly woman。
is that when God gave her her first son, Cain,。
she said, "I have gotten a man from the Lord."。
She thought that Cain would fulfill the prophecy。
of the coming Messiah.。
She must have been deeply grieved when that son, Cain,。
who she thought would bring them back to a perfect state,。
actually murdered her other son.。
Maybe God told her that the Messiah would come later。
and by another woman.。
But through the seed of the woman would be born the Messiah.。
My friends, Jesus came.。
He went to the cross at his first coming。
and died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
He died for our sins to save our souls.。
Trust him for your redemption。
and for the restoration of your body as well as your soul.。
He purchased it for you at the cross.。
Put your trust in him today.。
Would it just be God to use the story of a fallen woman, Eve,。
to bring you to salvation?。
Whoever believes in him shall not perish but have everlasting life.。
God bless you.。
Can I ask the band to come up?。
Maybe you'd all stand.。
I just want to finish by giving you a challenge.。
Are you trusting the Lord Jesus Christ today。
for your salvation, for your redemption?。
Are those of you in the overflow rooms trusting the Lord Jesus?。
Are you on YouTube?。
It's not the time to go out now and make a cup of tea.。
I just want to tell you.。
I'm going to invite you today to put your faith in Jesus.。
So one day you'll be able to tell your friends, your kids, your grandkids.。
That day when that silly pastor in the red trousers was talking about a woman,。
when he was talking about Eve,。
that was the day I decided to put my trust in Jesus Christ.。
That was the day I knew I was saved.。
That was the day I knew I was free from my sins.。
That was the day that I realized that one day I'm going to be with Him。
and I'm going to be totally restored.。
Let's close our eyes as I pray.。
Lord Jesus, I come to you now.。
I realize for so long I've trusted in my own righteousness.。
I know I've done things。
that have offended you and have caused offense to others.。
Your word caused those things, sin.。
I choose now today。
to give you my sin。
because you took that upon the cross.。
And I ask you to give me a new life。
and a new hope。
and a new future.。
Lord Jesus, I repent of my past。
and I offer you my future.。
Come into my life and fill me with your Spirit.。
I pray in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
And if you prayed that prayer, please tell someone.。
If you're in this room or in the overflow room,。
come to the well afterwards and share with us.。
Just say, "I just prayed that prayer."。
And someone will pray with you and encourage you.。
If you're on YouTube and you're there with someone, tell them.。
If not, drop us a line and say, "I prayed that prayer today."。
We'd love to encourage you more in your Christian journey.。
Church, we've got eight more weeks of women to go.。
It was a great start with Eve.。
But we're going to sing that song again.。
I'm no longer a slave to fear.。
I am a child of God.。
I'd love you to sing this knowing that you are indeed a child of God.。
Let's sing this together.。
Let's sing this together.。
