>> Good evening, everyone. Good to see you. I am looking -- the camera is right there.。
It's the one with the red light, right? Okay. Hi, everyone. Wow. How much things have changed.。
It's been one week. Who would have thought? The first of January was only last week and。
we were all still meeting. Still grateful that we get to at least have a few of us come。
here and just do this service. But it's -- what a roller coaster. What a roller coaster that。
it's been. And what an irony that it is that we get to start this new series on emotional。
health. And suddenly all this change happens. I had a New Year's resolution to start going。
to the gym. And I guess I can't do that anymore. I guess it will have to be next year. I was。
really intent on this would be the year that it would happen. But I felt like God just。
found it so important to stop me that he made all this happen. So anyway, I'm blessed. Hope。
you are blessed. What is emotional health? What is emotional health? Haven't we been。
going through enough in these last few years to start to feel what that might be? And almost。
even though it's ironic, maybe it's fitting. Maybe it's fitting that as we talk about emotional。
health, it's how do we stay healthy when things aren't going our way? It's almost okay, quite。
easy to go to say, hey, I'm well. Everything is well when everything else is well. But。
when things aren't going well, when things are out of your control, when things are uncertain,。
how do we remain emotionally healthy? And so this week we're jumping straight into the。
deep end. Even as the first week of the series, we're jumping straight into the deep end and。
looking at one of the most serious emotions, which is experiencing sorrow. And for me,。
as I'm thinking and as I'm reflecting about what it means to be emotionally healthy, it's。
to also be very much aware of the emotions that we're facing. So for example, faced with。
uncertainty, faced with grief, faced with loss, the emotionally healthy response isn't。
to say, everything is awesome, everything is fine, everything is good. That's not the。
emotionally healthy response. The emotionally healthy response is to say, things have been。
so hard. That is the emotionally healthy response. We've heard as we've gained awareness of mental。
health these last few years, that we've heard the statement, it's okay to not be okay. And。
as we look today into one of the strongest, strongest emotions, one that is brought about。
right in the depths of your heart, sorrow, when we face grief, we're actually encouraged。
that actually to be emotionally healthy is to also embrace that emotion. It's the emotion。
that none of us really want to face. Myself personally, I've lived a very blessed life.。
God has been very good, but I've been no stranger to grief, no stranger to sorrow. And I've。
shared before that actually it's in those moments of loss, and whether it's losing a。
loved one or even losing a family pet, let's not underestimate the pain that comes with。
losing even an animal that God's blessed us with, right? And the heart-wrenching loss。
that you feel. And I've shared before that even in those times when I'm going through。
those moments of sorrow, moments of grief, in some ways, it's what makes us human. Suffering。
isn't a part, apart from the human experience, but it's a part of it. And as I look in Scripture,。
I'm encouraged because it seems as though it's everywhere. Sorrow is everywhere. Now,。
sometimes we think when we're Christians, we're supposed to be fully happy. We're supposed。
to say, "Hey, we're #blessed, so we're super happy all the time." And to rejoice is a choice,。
so we have to keep rejoicing. Philippians 4, Paul says, "Rejoice," and then he says,。
"I'm going to say it again, rejoice." And so we take into this mindset that, "Man, we've。
got to stay happy throughout everything that's happening." But then you look deeper into。
Scripture and you're like, "Oh my goodness, there is so much sorrow." It's almost as though。
the Bible is giving us an instruction manual on how to deal with sorrow. We see the Psalms。
and we see, "Oh Lord, how excellent your name is. How great are you, Lord. Your love endures。
forever." Yet two-thirds, over two-thirds of the Psalms are laments, an ancient term。
for basically venting, for expressing all your frustration and all your anger. Two-thirds。
of the Psalms are about David lamenting. As the author writes to God, he's lamenting,。
he's venting to God, he's angry at God. He's filled with sorrow. Psalm 42, "Why are you。
downcast, O my soul?" And then we look at some other characters in the Bible. We look。
at Elijah and see if this works. Brilliant. Job. Job, we know, has this huge challenge。
at the beginning of this book of Job, where we see he loses his family. We see he loses。
his property. We see he loses his health. And then he has this response. And this is。
chapter three. At the end of chapter three, he has three friends who come and basically。
spend some time with him. And they see him going through so much sorrow, they have nothing。
to say. The end of chapter two says, "These three friends stay with Job and sit with him。
for seven days without saying a word, because they don't know what to say." Seven days of。
just sitting, looking at this friend who's just lost his family, who's just lost his。
property and who's losing his, whose health is falling apart. They just sit there. And。
then finally, in chapter three, finally, after seven days, he opens his mouth. And what does。
he say? He curses, he curses the fact that he's even born. And he says, "For my sighing。
comes instead of my bread, and my groanings are poured out like water. For the thing that。
I fear comes upon me, and what I dread befalls me. I am not at ease, nor am I quiet. I have。
no rest, but trouble comes." We see deep sorrow here with Job. And then you look at Elijah.。
Elijah, the famous prophet, who manages to defeat Baal and all his prophets, but then。
ends up getting chased by this evil queen and goes into a desert and straight away,。
straight after this huge mountaintop experience, after this big victory, then goes right down。
and plummets into the valley. Then he was afraid, and he arose and ran for his life。
and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself。
went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broom tree. And。
what did he do? And he asked that he might die, saying, "It's enough now, O Lord. Take。
away my life, for I am no better than my father's." And he lay down and slept under a broom, and。
behold, an angel touched him and said to him, "Arise and eat." Elijah goes through this。
incredible high, but then this incredible low, and experiences the sorrow to the point。
where he says, "That's enough. I'm done. Take my life." Some of us maybe even know how that。
feels to be in that position where, like, "God, life is not worth living. Why was I。
even born? Take my life now. It's done." And we see God being ever so patient, even with。
Elijah. This passage continues, and it's one of the—and what does God do in response。
to this? He bakes him a cake. Have a look at it. Carry on with this chapter. God actually。
bakes him a cake and says, "Eat." It's okay. It's going to be fine.。
And then you have David, one of the most famous kings of Israel, a man after God's own heart.。
Yet so many of his psalms I just said, so many of his songs, so many of his journal。
entries, "My tears have been my food day and night, while they say to me all the day。
long, 'Where is your God?' Attend to me and answer me. I am restless in my complaint,。
and I moan. My heart is in anguish within me. The terrors of death have fallen upon。
me." We see sorrow everywhere in Scripture. So the real question is, how are we supposed。
to deal with sorrow? How are we supposed to experience it and then overcome it? And as。
we look in Scripture, how do we basically not just be allowed to grieve, but then almost。
in some ways grow from that grieving? Paul talks about this in 1 Thessalonians, and he。
says, "Hey, we're allowed to grieve. In fact, we're supposed to grieve, but we don't want。
you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep. But you may not grieve as。
others do who have no hope." So you can grieve. We are supposed to grieve. It's part of the。
human experience. It's part of all our emotions. Yet when we grieve, we don't grieve as those。
who have no hope. Why? Why are we able to grieve without it not being the same way as。
those who have no hope? Why? Because we have hope. Where do we get that hope from? Jesus.。
Why? We grieve because we know that we're only grieving temporarily. We're only grieving。
temporarily. This loss we feel, this sorrow we feel, we know is only temporary. Now, I'm。
not saying it's only going to be five minutes. I'm not saying it's only going to be 10 days.。
I'm not going to say it's just going to be two weeks. But we don't grieve temporarily。
because of what Jesus did. Because He Himself experienced grief. He Himself experienced。
sorrow. He Himself then overcame it. He Himself experienced death and then defeated death.。
And because of that, we don't grieve as others do who have no hope. So today we're going。
to look at Scripture. And Anthony, thank you for reading that passage here. Because it's。
one of the times where we see Jesus dealing with sorrow. Most of the time we see Jesus。
just epitomising calm. He says to the wind and the waves, "Peace, be still." I don't。
imagine anywhere in Scripture does Jesus walk faster than three miles per hour. He's just。
floating and just walking and just plodding along, going from thing to thing, person to。
person, doing whatever He needs to do. And yet here we finally see Him experience sorrow.。
And actually, even in this short passage, even in these few verses, there are some tips。
that we can glean from. That's how the Son of God, that's how the Son of Man experienced。
sorrow. These are the things that we can learn from. And today I wanted to share really three。
things. And they're these. When He deals with the sorrow, how He deals with the sorrow,。
and finally, why He deals with the sorrow. As we look at this passage from Matthew 6,。
verse 23. Let's go straight into, first of all, when He deals with sorrow. He doesn't。
deal with it that much as we can see, but one of the big times of when He deals with。
the sorrow is in the Garden of Gethsemane. "And then Jesus went with him to a place called。
Gethsemane. And He said to the disciples, 'Sit here while I go over there and pray.'。
And taking with Him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee," who are James and John, "He。
began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then He said to them, 'My soul is very sorrowful,。
even to death. Remain here and watch with Me.'" So this is when He deals with sorrow.。
Let me give you a bit of context here. So this happens after the Last Supper. And they've。
had a really long, big dinner. And Jesus has said a whole ton of stuff at the Last Supper.。
You can see it from John, chapter 13 to 17. He says a ton of stuff. They have a very long。
time together. And as they usually do, and in one of the other Gospels, this is what。
they say. As they usually do, they head to the Mount of Olives. Mount of Olives. And。
within the Mount of Olives, which is what they usually do, they would then head to a。
Garden of Gethsemane. Now, it says here that actually, but just before that, if you rewind。
a little bit, chapter 26, verse 30, this is when they sung a hymn and they went to the。
Mount of Olives. So it's really interesting. It's that they've had dinner. We've all。
had dinner before with a big group of people. And then they sing some hymns, which again。
would have been the custom. Likely, they would have sang some of the Psalms because they。
would have known the Psalms very well. And then they head to the Mount of Olives. And。
then they head to this Garden of Gethsemane. The word Gethsemane, it means oil press. This。
Mount of Olives, of course, there would be lots of olives. And this garden in particular。
is where the olives would be crushed for oil. So he goes to this garden where olives are。
crushed. And it's in this garden where he himself, his soul is crushed. And we see here。
that he takes his disciples with him. He takes them all with him. And then he says, "Hey,。
you guys sit over here whilst I go and pray." And then he takes three of them, Peter, James。
and John, and he goes a bit further into the garden with these three. These are the same。
three that he took to the Mount of Transfiguration. Because these three are known to be the ones。
who are extra close to Jesus. And he takes them with him. Why does he take these three?。
In fact, it's actually these three who have declared themselves ready to do whatever they。
need to do. It was Peter who was just a few verses before saying, "Hey, Jesus, I'm willing。
to follow you anywhere, even if it means to die. I'm going to follow you." And James and。
John, the two brothers, a couple of few chapters before in chapter 20, you have their mum who。
takes the two of them and goes to Jesus and say, "Jesus, when you're in your kingdom,。
can both my sons be on either side of you? Can they sit on either side of you?" Sounds。
like a Chinese mum, right? "Can I reserve a spot for my two sons?" And what does Jesus。
say? Jesus says, "You don't know what you're asking. You do not know what you're asking.。
Can they drink the same cup that I'm about to drink?" So these three have declared themselves。
ready. "Jesus, we're willing to go with you and we want to sit with you wherever you go."。
So Jesus takes them into the Garden of Gethsemane. And here we see whether they're really ready。
or not. And it's in this moment where we start to see the true human nature of Jesus. The。
divine course was already set. He knew why he came to this earth. He knew what this garden。
was going to be about. He knew what this evening was going to be about. And yet in this moment,。
he began to be sorrowful and troubled. It's in this moment we see Jesus himself experiencing。
this extreme grief. The word there for sorrowful and troubled is actually deeply grieved, almost。
facing a horror, almost severe shock. In another version in the Bible, actually even in his。
sweat there starts to be blood coming out. And that only happens when someone is experiencing。
severe shock. So we see here, Jesus is going through that kind of sorrow. Maybe a sorrow。
that's even way more intense than anything that we've gone through. So that's when he。
deals with the sorrow. And hopefully that sets the table for you as to then looking。
into how he deals with the sorrow. So how he deals with the sorrow, I'd say this is。
the main part of my message here. And there's really a couple of things that we can highlight。
here. From this passage, "Then he said to them, 'My soul is very sorrowful, even to。
death. Remain here and watch with me.' And going a little farther, he fell on his face。
and prayed, saying, 'My father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless,。
not as I will, but as you will.'" So as he takes Peter, James, and John further into。
this garden where olives are crushed, his soul begins to crush. And here we see how。
he deals with it. Even in these short two verses here, we can get a glimpse of how Jesus。
deals with sorrow, how the Son of God, the Prince of Heaven deals with sorrow. And there's。
three things I want to highlight even from these two verses here is this. One, he doesn't。
face it alone. Two, he doesn't hide his feelings. And three, he doesn't avoid the pain. One,。
he doesn't face it alone. Two, he doesn't hide his feelings. And three, he doesn't。
avoid the pain. So we see here, he doesn't face it alone. The Son of God himself says,。
"My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch with me." The Son of。
God himself, the one who reveals the very presence of God to others, now is in need。
of human companionship, moral support. This is just a supreme illustration of the paradox。
of the incarnation, where we see Jesus as fully God, but also as fully man. And he says。
to these three, he says, "Stay with me. I need you tonight. I am in a place, I am filled。
with sorrow. I'm a wreck tonight. Stay with me." So Jesus recognized the need when dealing。
with sorrow to not do it alone. So I guess the question that we have for ourselves is,。
when we face grief, when we face loss, when we face anxiety, when we face sorrow, do we。
face it alone? So often we do, right? So often we think, "You know what? No one needs to。
know about this. No one needs to hear about this. Why would anyone be interested in this?。
Why would anyone be... You know what? Time is money here in Hong Kong. Why would anyone。
want to give their time to walk with me whilst I'm feeling like this?" And yet Jesus himself。
doesn't... Isn't afraid to reach out. Isn't afraid to say, "Watch with me. Stay with me。
because I need you this evening." So when we face sorrow, we actually need to pluck。
up the courage to go to the people that we... Maybe there's three people that we can reach。
out to. Three people that we can... "Today is not a good day. I just need to reach...。
I just need to tell you that. Even that will help. I just need to reach out to you. Actually,。
if you have time, I'd love to spend some time. Can you come over? Can I come over to yours?。
Can I invite myself over for dinner?" Whatever it may be, it requires us to take that first。
step, just as Jesus is, in not facing the sorrow that we have alone. So I don't know。
whether any of us here or any of us watching online are facing the sorrow, facing this。
loneliness that comes with dealing with grief, with dealing with uncertainty. The encouragement。
here is don't face it alone. But also, as little Christs, as Christians, as little Jesuses,。
we also have to be sensitive to those around us because we recognise that it takes so much。
courage to step out and say, "I need help." We need to be sensitive to those we meet.。
So when we're talking to people, to ask them genuinely, "How are you doing? Is there anything。
that I can do to pray with you? Is there... Actually, if it's going really bad, then can。
I just come and hang out?" I have no answers. I have zero answers. I've been faced with。
this recently as I've met and been connected with just different families who have just。
had some really just tragic circumstances happen to them. I have zero answers. I'm no。
expert in any of those things. And my prayer is, "God, would you just let me go and sit。
with them?" Just like Job's three friends sat with him. We need each other. And of course,。
during COVID now, this has been highlighted even more. This isn't an extrovert, introvert。
thing. We all need people around us. Maybe some people only in small doses, but we still。
need people around us. So when dealing with sorrow, don't face it alone. Do not be afraid。
to reach out to people. And do not be afraid to be the one that reaches out to those who。
you feel may be in need. Do not face it alone. And the second thing Jesus does is he doesn't。
hide his feelings. He doesn't hide his feeling from Peter and James and John. He tells them,。
"My soul is sorrowful even to death." He actually tells them how he's feeling. So that's the。
don't face it alone part. But he also doesn't hide it to God. He also doesn't hide it to。
God because then he turns to God and his prayer is intense because he falls on his face and。
he says, "My Father, my Father." He goes to the strongest connection he has here. "My。
Father." He just taught the disciples how to pray earlier saying, "Our Father in heaven,。
hallowed be thy name." But in a time of sorrow, he goes, "My Father, my Father." And he doesn't。
hide from God. He doesn't hide his feelings from God. And then he starts to pray. And。
this tells me when we are going through sorrow, when we are going through grief, the most。
important thing is that we remain devoted to praying, remain devoted to seeking God's。
heart. And we see this time and time again in Scripture, whether it's Hannah, mother。
of Samuel, Mary, whatever emotions they have, they just burst into prayer. David, time and。
time again, just bursting into prayer, even when they don't feel like it. It's important.。
It's imperative that when we face sorrow, we do not hide our feelings and that we actually。
approach Him and tell Him what we're going through. We see most of the time, I don't。
know about you, we try and maintain the stiff upper lip when it comes to God. We may be。
going through a whole ton of stuff at home or at work, but when we turn up at church。
or a Bible study, we just kind of sit up straight and we go, "Yes, dear, dear Father God, thank。
you for this time that we've had here. Thank you for this. Thank you for that. And yeah,。
help us be this. In Jesus' name, Amen." When actually, we're trying just to keep composed。
and just keep it on the surface, when actually God knows the things that are going on in。
our hearts. And actually more than anything, He just wants us to share with Him, not to。
hide those feelings from Him. I can imagine my children, if they're going through something。
that has really upset them, and when they come to me, I see their lips shaking. I see。
that they're genuinely upset and flustered. But when they talk to me, they're still trying。
to hide it. As a father, as a parent, what's the thing that you want them to do the most?。
It isn't to maintain their composure. It's for them to tell you what's going on. It's。
for them to be able to share with you those feelings. And that's God's heart for all of。
us. That when we're experiencing sorrow, that we don't hide our feelings, but that we go。
to Him and that we pray whatever is on our hearts. Jesus just showed us then a model.。
When you pray, you should pray like this, "Our Father in heaven, hallowed be thy name."。
And it's only very towards the end that you start presenting your requests. But in that。
time of need, when His soul is sorrowful, He goes, "My Father," and then He goes straight。
into, "If it be possible, let this cup pass from me." You see, in Philippians 4, which。
I just referred to, chapter 4 is, "Rejoice, I say again, rejoice. The Lord is at hand.。
Don't be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication and thanksgiving,。
present your requests to God." That's what the Apostle Paul says, right? And in ideal。
circumstances, that's the best, that we don't be anxious about anything, that we let go,。
and that we present our requests to God with thanksgiving. But here, we see something very。
different. In that moment of sorrow, the Son of God Himself praised Him, "My Father," and。
He goes straight into the cry of His heart. In Hebrews chapter 5, it actually says it.。
It says, "In the days of His flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications, but。
not thanksgiving, with loud cries and tears." Think back to the last time you were genuinely。
sorrowful, genuinely distraught, and genuinely angry at God. How did you approach Him? How。
did you talk to Him? Was it maintaining that stiff upper lip? Or was it doing what Jesus。
did? Was it doing what David did? Was it doing what Elijah did? Just, "God, things are not。
good. Things are not well." Let us not hide our feelings from God. He isn't afraid to。
hide His feelings, and He also isn't afraid to make His requests. So, He still prays,。
"Can this cup pass? My Father, I'm filled with sorrow. I am troubled. Can we avoid this?。
Is there another way?" Sometimes we think when bad things happen to us, we're not even。
allowed to say anything. But here is a Father that truly loves us and truly knows what's。
best for us, and actually welcomes us to make those requests, to ask, just as Jesus did.。
You know what? Jesus here wasn't questioning whether He should obey God or not. That's。
not what He was doing. He wasn't asking whether He should follow the Father's purpose. He。
was always going to follow the Father's purpose. What He was asking was, "Does that purpose。
need to have this cup?" He was saying, "God, I'm going to follow You whichever way, but。
I'm just asking, does it have to be this way? Because You know I will follow You, but my。
weakness, my sorrow is just, I just can't help but feel, I can't help but want to ask,。
is there another way?" He's not afraid to hide his feelings. He doesn't hide his feelings.。
He doesn't even stop and not make any requests. He does. But He also, and the final point。
is, He also doesn't avoid the pain. Even though He isn't afraid to make a request, He also。
isn't afraid to accept whatever the Father's will is. He knew, and we now know, that the。
only way was still to take this cup. And so the final thing is, He doesn't face it alone,。
He doesn't hide His feelings, and He also doesn't avoid the pain. Even in this, He says,。
"Nevertheless, not as I will, but as You will." Never was there a moment where He thought,。
"God, I'm not going to obey You. I'm not going to avoid this pain. I'm still going to pursue。
Your heart, even when it isn't the easiest. In fact, this is going to be the hardest thing。
that I ever have to face, to be separated from You, God, but I will do it." And for。
us, when we're filled with that sorrow, it's important that we also don't avoid that pain.。
That we still choose that path that God has set out for us. That song that we sang earlier,。
that even what the enemy meant for evil, God will turn for good. That's the trust that。
we have. So even though we walk through this valley of the shadow of death, we will fear。
no evil, because we know that He is with us. So we're not going to avoid the pain, we're。
going to keep going, because we know that this is where the Lord is leading. And we。
realise and we recognise the way of the cross necessitates that pain to be there, because。
then it precedes the healing and the restoration that will come. And so as believers, just。
as Jesus did, we must not avoid the pain. And time and time again, when I found myself。
in hospital, when I found myself facing loss, it's in those moments where I'm like, "You。
know what? I'm not going to avoid it. I'm not going to deny it. I'm just going to lean。
in to it. I am just going to lean into it." Recognising this emotion sorrow is a real。
emotion. It's one that I do not like that much at all, but I know it's part of being。
human. And I know it's one that Jesus had Himself. So I don't face it alone. So I don't。
hide my feelings. And I don't avoid the pain, because I recognise as I go through this way,。
this is the way that will bring healing and restoration. And so Jesus says, the words。
that He taught His disciples, when you pray, you pray like this, "Your kingdom come, your。
will be done." He follows His own example. He becomes the supreme model. And in those。
words, "Your will be done," He transforms the fate of mankind. In fact, it's those very。
words but it's flipped that was said many thousands of years before that, that brought。
about the fall. It was Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden who said, "As I will, and。
not yours." "Not your will, but mine," says Adam and Eve. And in uttering those。
words, "Not your will, but mine," Adam and Eve transform paradise into desert, life。
into death. And it is now in the second Adam, the last Adam, Jesus Himself uses that very。
same phrase, but flips it around and says, "But now, it's not my will, but yours."。
He changes that desert. He changes that valley of dry bones back into life. He changes the。
Garden of Gethsemane into the kingdom of heaven. In that moment of sorrow, He doesn't avoid。
the pain and He chooses obedience. Hebrews 5, it says, "Jesus, in the days of His flesh,。
He prays with loud cries and tears." But then chapter 5, verse 8, it says, "And although。
He was a son, He learned obedience through what He suffered." And that's the encouragement。
for us as we deal with the sorrow, whatever it is that God has allowed to happen, we recognise。
that in His will, He will turn bad into good. There is something to be learned. Our job。
is to trust and obey, to keep going through that valley, knowing that He is with us.。
And so, I've talked about when He dealt with that sorrow. I've talked about how He dealt。
with it and those three things. Don't face it alone. Don't hide your feelings and don't。
avoid the pain and lean into it. Finally then is, why did He have to go through it? Why。
did it suddenly come upon Him? Why does Jesus, the Son of God, who had the power to summon。
armies of angels to come and save Him, why did He choose to go through that sorrow? Apart。
from giving us a great template on how to deal with sorrow ourselves, why did He have。
to go through it? You look at this passage again. Let me just go back a bit. "And going。
unto the Father on His face and foot, it says, 'And He began'" Oh, you know what? It's too。
far now. "And He began to be sorrowful." What happened to Jesus, where in that moment, as。
He leaves His disciples behind, as He walks with these three, and suddenly, in that moment,。
He starts to feel that sorrow. In verse 37, "And talking with Him, Peter and the two sons。
of Zebedee, He began to be sorrowful and troubled." Why? Why in that moment did He suddenly...。
He knew this was happening. Very early on in the Gospels, He'd say, "Hey, this is the。
reason I was sent, to provide the good news to the other towns as well." So He knew what。
was going to happen. And He'd told them before that the Son of Man is going to have to die,。
but then He'll be raised from the dead. But in this moment, why does He suddenly get overwhelmed。
with this sorrow? I think the clue is in that passage, and I'm just going to read from here.。
Verse 36, it says, "Sit here while I go over there and pray." As He walks deeper into the。
garden with Peter, James, and John, what do you think He's doing? He's starting to pray.。
And it's in that moment, as He starts to pray, that He suddenly feels this sorrow. Why? Because。
He's suddenly feeling the wrath of God. The cup that He's talking about, what is this。
cup? What is this cup that He talks about, that He asked God, "Let this cup pass from。
me." See, in ancient times, they would have known what this cup represented. So often,。
people would be killed, executed by this cup. Why? Because if you'd done something wrong。
and you needed to die, they would give you a cup of poison. And then you would drink。
it, and then your insides would just completely explode. That is how you would die. Socrates,。
the philosopher, died by this cup. And so often, they would know that when someone is。
talking about cup, they're talking about suffering. They're talking about death. And in the Old。
Testament, this cup is also referred a lot to. And what does it represent? It represents。
the wrath of God. And so Jesus is saying, "Is there any other way? If there's any other。
way where this cup doesn't need to happen." He's saying, "Is there any other way that。
I don't feel the wrath of God? What is the wrath of God?" I think the moment He starts。
walking into this garden, the moment He starts to pray, the moment... He'll have done this。
so many times. Time and time again, you see in Scripture, Jesus goes into the woods and。
goes into the desert place, and He starts to pray. And He says, "I and the Father are。
one." He experiences constant communion with God. But for the first time ever, and for。
this time only, He goes into the garden, and He starts praying. He turns to God, and nothing。
is there. Because He is experiencing the cup. He is experiencing the wrath of God, which。
is what? God turning Himself away. That, brothers and sisters, is hell. Sometimes we have this。
image of hell with these little demons with pitchforks, and it's just black and red. But。
hell is separation from God. The wrath of God is God Himself turning His back on us.。
And here we have Him turning His back on His only Son, His only Son whom He loved and who。
was well pleased. And in this garden of Gethsemane, His Son's soul is crushed, because in this。
moment He knew He had to take on the wrath of God on behalf of us. So as He turns to。
pray to God, nothing is there. Jonathan Edwards said this, "The agony that Jesus experienced。
in the garden was caused by a vivid, bright, full, immediate view of the wrath of God.。
When He turned to God this time, all He could see was the abyss." That was what brought。
the sorrow. That was what brought the trouble. And so why did He do that? Out of His love。
for us. Recognising that if He didn't do this, if He didn't take this cup, we would have。
to, because we would end up separating ourselves from God. So the only one who was never separated。
from God had to take our place so that we wouldn't be separated. The wrath of God turned。
loose on Him, so it wouldn't turn loose on us. So that we then would be able to approach。
this throne of God and be in His presence. But it all came because Jesus obeyed and was。
willing to take this cup Himself. What's even more infuriating or ridiculous is the very。
people that He was dying for, the very people He was taking this cup for. He's like, "This。
cup of poison, you should be the one that's taking this. Peter, James and John, you, you're。
falling asleep, but you should be the one that's taking this cup. Yet here I am taking。
it for you." And in some ways, are we not, Peter, James and John? We've seen God do amazing。
things. We were on the mountain and seeing this great thing. And yet, when He needed。
us the most, we would disappoint Him. And yet He still did it. And whilst we were still。
sinners, He still chose to die for us. And now, of course, He doesn't need that same。
moral support. Now we know that one day He'll come back in strength. And yet His call to。
us is the same. His call to a sleeping church, which is concerned about tons of other agendas。
other than waiting for the Lord Himself. He's saying, "Stay awake. Stay connected to me。
because I love you. And whilst you were still sinners, I died for you because I took on。
this cup for you. God turned His back away from me in that garden so that He wouldn't。
turn His back on you." And so for us, let us remember what Jesus did for us. Jesus is。
saying, you sum up this whole Bible. How do you sum it up? Love God and love people. And。
you know what? That's hard. But Jesus is saying, "Love God and love people and follow me, even。
when it's hard, even when it's stressful." And never, never have we ever seen someone。
love God and love people under this much stress, under this much sorrow. And yet He did. So。
for us, as we face sorrow ourselves, as we're surrounded by people in Hong Kong, in our。
churches that are faced with sorrow, let us remember not to face it alone. Let's not hide。
our feelings from one another, from God Himself. And also let's not avoid the pain. Let's lean。
into it. And as we lean into it, as we see God's purpose, may we trust and obey. And。
may we follow what Jesus Himself said. Nevertheless, whatever happens, your will and not mine.。
Trusting that in those words, He will turn dry bones into life. He will turn desert into。
paradise. Let us pray.。
So Jesus, we thank you for showing us what it means to be human. Lord, we are so weak,。
so much of the time, we are completely not in control. And Lord, things have not been。
okay. At the very least, these last three years in Hong Kong have not been the easiest.。
And even with no sign of improvement, we take heart because we recognise that you are at。
our hand. But I pray, Lord, that for any of us here who are genuinely facing sorrow, who。
are deeply grieving, Lord, that your Spirit would give them the strength to grieve in。
the right way. Lord, we know to be emotionally healthy is to also grieve. But we grieve not。
as those who have no hope, because we grieve only temporarily. Because we know that there。
will be one day where you will return, where you will make all things new, where you will。
wipe away every tear, where there will be no death, where there will be no pain. Why?。
Not because of anything that we're able to do, but because in that garden, you chose。
the way of obedience. You took on the cup for us. You showed us the way. And then you。
became the way. And so because of that, we take heart. Because of that, we rejoice. And。
it's in what you did, our sorrow can be turned to joy. But Lord, right now, whilst we're。
still here waiting, would you draw close to us? Would you draw close to those online at。
home just watching? Lord, that your Spirit of peace would fill them, a peace that surpasses。
all understanding, a peace this world cannot give. We thank you, Lord, for showing us.。
In such times of uncertainty, you are the only thing that is certain. And for that,。
we are thankful. And it's in your name we pray. Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
