I wish I was talking to you face to face, but hey, I offer technology.。
I want to start at the very beginning.。
I want to look at the very first book of the Bible, in fact, the second chapter.。
And look at this verse, the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work。
it and take care of it.。
Yes, work was God's idea.。
Work was God's idea.。
God created mankind to work and are created in his image.。
Work should be considered a blessing.。
But what you might not appreciate is just how much I am excited by the whole subject。
of workplace and faith.。
One caveat, my heart is so full, I will not be able to do it justice in one sermon.。
And I'm so excited that Anthony will be speaking to us next week without a TA, hopefully.。
That picture tells a million stories.。
It's a businessman, a businessman turned pastor.。
I came to Hong Kong as a businessman.。
I loved my job.。
I was general manager for the Hong Kong operation of AXA, one of the world's largest insurance。
companies.。
I was a businessman longer than I have been a pastor.。
Thirty three years, three months and three days.。
Well, not exactly, but it sounds good, doesn't it?。
And I'm often asked the question.。
How long have you been in full time ministry?。
And my answer.。
Is I have always been in full time ministry.。
The truth is, I reached more people for Christ.。
In the insurance industry, as the guy on the left of your screen.。
Then I do as a pastor.。
I spend far too much of my time now as a pastor with Christians.。
And I want to start off this evening by destroying the sort of myths that had me one day working。
for Mammon.。
And the next day having a permanent halo on my head.。
Yeah, right.。
Church history has consistently been ready to put everything into two boxes.。
Sacred and sacred.。
Church was a building you went to.。
Communities were the things you did there.。
Clergy were the people who delivered them.。
For much of church history, they were male.。
And perhaps just a little bit boring.。
I just want to put it there.。
This has not been my experience.。
And as I reread the Bible, we have no authority to do so.。
In the early 80s, I was a successful sales manager of a UK insurance company, a subsidiary。
of a merchant bank.。
When in my late 20s, I realized I got practically everything the world could throw at me.。
But yet had a gaping chasm in my heart, a Christ-shaped hole, to be precise.。
I first saw this in other people who had clearly found something I didn't have and something。
I was looking for.。
So I recommitted my life, manifested in taking adult confirmation classes in my suburban。
Anglican church in the UK.。
But what happened was that the workplace became my mission field from day one.。
As everyone was curious what had happened to me.。
Although I was the company's leading sales manager, my lifestyle had become decidedly。
self-absorbed.。
To be honest, a foul-mouthed, driven workaholic.。
But now I had a new boss and was willing to follow him to the ends of the earth.。
Literally, in 1987, I was asked to consider taking my family, my wife, Sandra, my two。
sons, Paul and Matt, even my sheepdog, Bella, to Hong Kong for three years to start an investment。
services company for National Mutual, our new parent company.。
Now our only previous visit to Hong Kong was in 1981.。
We were staying at the Regent Hotel in Tsim Sha Tsui.。
We walked down Nathan Road and saw the people and my wife, Sandra, said, "You'll never get。
me to live here a million years."。
Now our arrival was actually coincident with the famous stock market crash of 1987.。
It was called Black Monday.。
I ended up with what I describe as trying to sell ice creams to Eskimos here.。
It was the toughest period of my whole business life.。
It was humbling.。
Now I wish I could tell you the whole story, but suffice to say, in that time, God gave。
me a vision for Hong Kong, a love for Hong Kong, and a vision for his church, and particular。
for evangelism.。
And 35 years later, I'm still here.。
And I can give testimony to 35 years of God's grace and him using this insurance man turned。
pastor to help build his kingdom here.。
I want to give credit here to the Union Church, who in 1995 allowed an insurance man with。
no pastoral experience to deliver live talks on their new course at the time.。
It was a course called Alpha.。
Alpha, something I am still doing by God's grace today.。
It was there that I first gained experience of delivering messages in church.。
My thinking on this topic has been heavily shaped by Ed Silvozo's book, Anointed for。
Jesus.。
Actually, I always secretly wanted to be a pastor.。
Now this book and the group of people that I gathered around me to study it, we were。
called FISH, F-I-S-H, Fellowship of Insurance Staff in Hong Kong.。
It told me that I already was a pastor, that all work was worship, and every Christian。
is a minister.。
I was in reality a marketplace pastor.。
I learned through this book and through this time that every business is God's business.。
The notion that labor for profit and worship of God are now and have always been God's。
a part is absolutely false.。
There is no sacred and secular divide.。
Look at this, the early church founders, mostly community leaders and highly successful business。
people, the writing of the Gospels was entrusted to Luke, a doctor, Matthew, a retired tax。
collector, Mark, the manager of a family trust, and John, a food supplier, FISH actually.。
In the book of Acts, Lydia was a dealer of purple cloth and Dorcas was a clothes designer.。
I want to share a quote from Ken Costa, who was actually a speaker at a church at KFC.。
He spoke one Saturday night.。
He said this, "God loves you.。
God loves the work he has called you to."。
Now I want to push this a bit further.。
Ed Silvozo talks about what he calls four lethal misbeliefs.。
What I want to do is I want to put my own slant on this.。
I've already hinted at this, that the first misbelief that there is a God-ordained division。
between clergy and laity.。
As part of my doctoral studies, I had the privilege to study theology of work under。
visiting professor Paul Stevens from the Regent Seminary in Vancouver.。
One of the things he said was this, "For Christians, the problem is that on one side of the line,。
there are Sunday things, I guess for us Saturday things, other worldly things, supernatural。
things, holy things, and spiritual things.。
On the other side, there are unspiritual things, human things, natural things, this world things,。
and the things of everyday life."。
He said this, "This is the problem of dualism, that some things are sacred and some things。
are secular."。
He said this, "It is possibly the worst heresy in the Christian church worldwide."。
I mean, answer this question.。
In the 1950s, missionaries came to the South part of Korea.。
They did good work.。
At the end of the war, the percentage of people who are Christians in South Korea had risen。
from 2% to 30%.。
Today there are 20,000 plus churches there, including some of the world's biggest.。
I visited one of them.。
Won-yong Joido has 750,000 people attending.。
At the same time, an author by the name of J.R.R.。
Tolkien wrote the famous book, Lord of the Rings, and the children's story, The Hobbit.。
The question is, which one is sacred and which one is secular?。
Which work would the Lord have called worthier and more sacred than the others?。
Here we have the sacred, secular dualism.。
Church services are sacred.。
Company offices are not.。
Quiet times are sacred, but eating, sleeping, and resting are secular.。
Prayer meetings, of course, are sacred, but political action is secular.。
Reading the Bible or witnessing is sacred, but reading the newspaper is secular.。
The problem is the tragic separation of Sunday, or in this case, Saturday, and Monday to Friday.。
Church life is separated from ordinary life.。
State life is separated from public life.。
Inner life is separated from outer life.。
And belief is separated from behavior.。
The apostle Paul, in his writings, never said that people go to church to worship.。
Paul believed that we are worshipping God all the time.。
I don't think there is a part-time option for followers of Jesus.。
One thing people always ask me is, how was I able to make the transition between working。
for an insurance company and a church?。
And the truth is, I don't actually know how to answer it.。
You might call me naive, but to me, there was no difference.。
Both were primarily about people, and most importantly, both were about serving and glorifying。
God.。
I love this quote from famous inventor Thomas Edison.。
He said, "We often miss opportunity because it's dressed in overalls and looks like work."。
So let me move on to the second lethal belief.。
And it's this, that the church is called to operate primarily inside a building, often。
referred to as a temple.。
Now the old cliche, Christians don't go to church, they are the church, is arguably trite,。
but it's true.。
And we've just spent six weeks on a series talking about it.。
It's unoriginal, but it is far from unimportant.。
When people are not sleeping, most of their time is spent working.。
Think about it.。
The average Christian spends less than 2% of their waking time at church.。
Yet the church puts most of its energy and resources into that 2%, and very little into。
the world of daily work.。
I want to show you a Bible verse that we probably, all of us, read incorrectly.。
This is the NIV, Matthew 16, 18.。
And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock, I will build my church, and the。
gates of Hades, or the gates of hell, will not overcome it.。
Now some background here.。
Jesus had asked his disciples who people were saying he was.。
And while with others waffling about John the Baptist, Elijah, Jeremiah, or one of the。
prophets, Simon Peter has a gift of faith and declares, "You are the Messiah, the Son。
of the living God."。
Then Jesus says, "I will build my church."。
Or does he?。
Maybe he does in English.。
Maybe he does in the NIV.。
And every other translation, to be honest, I looked at more than 20 translations to see。
this.。
But watch this.。
The Greek word, "ekklesia," means an assembly of people convened at the public place of。
counsel for the purpose of the liberating.。
I guess it's like a town hall today.。
It's a term that comes from the marketplace.。
Jesus did not say, "I will build my temple.。
I will build my synagogue."。
There were specific Greek words for them, and Jesus chose not to use them.。
We have embraced and perpetuated a culture around this single word, a word that was never。
spoken by Jesus.。
Let me look at it another way.。
I started off by talking about Alpha.。
I've got a confession to make to you.。
I am a complete alphaholic.。
In his talk about "What About the Church," Nicky Gumbel describes five images and metaphors。
to describe the church.。
They are the people of God, the family of God, the body of Christ, a holy temple, the。
bride of Christ.。
Now, if you want to find out more, you'll need to come on the next KFCI Alpha in the。
autumn.。
But I can tell you that none of these refer to what we commonly call church.。
I want to look once again, without apology, at the passage we've been studying for the。
past two months.。
It's in Acts 2.。
They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship and to the breaking of bread。
and to prayer.。
Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles.。
All the believers were together and had everything in common.。
They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need.。
Every day, they continued to meet together in the temple courts.。
They broke bread in their homes.。
They ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all。
the people.。
And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved.。
Numbers were added daily.。
And where do we go daily?。
I guarantee it is not the first floor of the Far East Finance Center.。
My friends, the church has left the building.。
Ed Silvozo says this, "As long as we believe that the church was born within four walls,。
we will always need four walls to have a church."。
My third lethal misbelief is this.。
People involved in business cannot be as spiritual as those serving in traditional。
church ministry.。
One of my favorite all-time Christian books is The Call.。
It's written by a guy called Oz Guinness, whom I had the pleasure to meet on a number。
of occasions, most recently, about a year ago on Zoom.。
He says this, "No idea short of God's call can ground and fulfill the truest human desire。
for purpose and fulfillment."。
Now the Christian world often mistakes the word "call" from being called to what we all。
call full-time ministry.。
That is wrong.。
My friends, I need to tell you something.。
You are called.。
Let me say that again.。
You are called.。
Whether you're a preacher or people call you a super apostle or you're a bank manager,。
a school teacher or a full-time mom, whether you minister to drug addicts and street sleepers,。
or you wash dishes in a cha-chang tank, you are called.。
The fear of repeating myself, when people ask, "When was I called to the ministry?"。
I do not see my transfer from my office in AXA in Wanchai to my office in the Vine in。
Lankwai Fong.。
Yeah, yeah, we had our office in Lankwai Fong.。
A flash of lightning in the sky or a spiritual awakening, but rather a working out of a calling。
that was already there.。
I'll go further.。
We not only have a general calling, which is represented by the Great Commission, we。
each have a specific calling.。
Even when I became a pastor, God gave me a specific call to church unity and a specific。
call to raise up the next generation, which I hold to this day.。
Ken Costa again wrote this.。
The God who created and sustains the world is also the God of the workplace.。
If the Christian faith is not relevant in the workplace, it is not relevant at all.。
Now think about it.。
Jesus lived on the earth 33 years.。
Only three of them were in what we call ministry.。
He was the carpenter's son.。
He was born in the marketplace.。
It wasn't difficult for Jesus' neighbors to see him as a businessman, as many would have。
purchased his products.。
Most of Jesus' followers remain in full-time business while simultaneously conducting full-time。
ministry.。
This was possible because they saw the marketplace as their parish and their business as their。
pulpit.。
To them, witnessing was not an occasional activity, but a lifestyle.。
The book of Acts unfolds the story of believers who did more than tell people about Jesus。
in the marketplace.。
They witnessed a steady stream of signs and wonders.。
In fact, only one of the 40 extraordinary manifestations of God's power recorded in。
the book of Acts actually occurred in a religious venue, the healing of the lame man at the。
temple gate called Beautiful.。
Most of these spiritual wonders were facilitated by people such as Paul, Priscilla, and Aquila,。
who as ministry and business partners are classic examples of marketplace Christians.。
Today, millions of people, millions of men and women are similarly called to full-time。
ministry in business, education, and government, the marketplace.。
Unfortunately, many of these marketplace Christians feel like second-class citizens when compared。
to people who serve full-time in the church or in a ministry context.。
This should not be the case.。
It is imperative that they realize that it's not only okay to do ministry in the marketplace,。
but that God has explicitly called them and anointed them for it.。
By anointed, I mean they have been chosen and empowered by the Holy Spirit for a divinely。
sanctioned assignment.。
By ministry, I mean they can do more than just witness.。
They can bring transformation to their jobs and then to their cities as happened in the。
first century.。
Most marketplace Christians already know that their ministry and their occupation are somehow。
connected, but they do not comprehend exactly how.。
American author Jean E. Veith says this, "The priesthood of all believers did not make everybody。
into church workers.。
Rather, it turned every kind of work into a sacred calling."。
My friends, put that on your fridge.。
I guess we all grew up thinking that the primary, sorry, I want to give you the fourth misconception。
first.。
The fourth misconception is the primary role of marketplace Christians is to make money。
to support the vision of those in the ministry.。
So let's go back one.。
I guess we all grew up thinking that the primary purpose of business people in the church was。
to earn the money to pay their tithes so that the pastor could do the ministry stuff.。
In particular, the Sunday church service and the sermon.。
One prays, the other pays, right?。
I want to use this last section to encourage the church to take seriously its role of equipping。
the marketplace.。
It is, I believe, the key to the transformation of our city, the transformation of Hong Kong,。
and the events of the last two to three years have, I believe, prepared our hearts and churches。
for this.。
I remember a Hong Kong Sunday school teacher saying this to me.。
I spend 45 minutes a week teaching Sunday school, and they call me up to the front of。
the church and they pray for me.。
The rest of the week, I'm a full-time teacher, and the church has never prayed for me.。
My friends, that breaks my heart.。
Church, we desperately need a rethink.。
Green churches are churches that have a vision of God at work where their people work, that。
connect daily work to worship, that address the opportunities and challenges that people。
face at work, that invest resources in equipping people for their work, that create structures。
to sustain workplace ministry, release and support their people for work outside the。
church building, and they encourage everyone to take responsibility.。
I want to share with you a story that only came to me this week, but it's such an encouragement。
to me as I prepared to pray this.。
This lady is called Andrea.。
Andrea, I used to work at the same company with 35 years ago.。
I haven't seen her since.。
In fact, actually, as I told you, I was in the sales office.。
She was an executive secretary.。
I didn't know her very well.。
We were connected through Facebook, I think mainly because her and her husband actually。
moved to Spain and we moved to Hong Kong.。
She wrote to me this week, "Hi, John, just a quick message to ask if you could include。
me in your prayers.。
I have terminal cancer and I have been told I haven't much time left.。
A prayer for me would be such a comfort.。
Bless you."。
Somebody I haven't seen for 35 years.。
Of course, I got straight back to her and said, "I need to pray some bold prayers, but。
I need to be bold with you that this life is not all that it's about."。
I shared about Jesus and in coming to die for us and the gift of eternal life.。
As suggested, she prayed this prayer, it was a sinner's prayer.。
She wrote back to me a few hours later to say, "I've prayed that prayer.。
I feel so much better now."。
Then we prayed for her to receive the Holy Spirit as well.。
She said this, "Bless you, John.。
Your kindness has made me quite emotional, but I know I will be going to a wonderful。
place and talking to you each day."。
I promised to contact her every day.。
"It will make me stronger.。
Please none of you underestimate what you might do in your workplace or the people you。
contact.。
The mom at the school gate, the person you see on the bus, the person at lunchtime.。
Thirty-five years after I last worked at the same company of this lady, she this week has。
received Jesus as her Lord and Savior and knows that she has an eternal destiny."。
Would you take just one minute now, just in silence, to pray for Andrea?。
I told her tonight that our church was going to be praying for her.。
So pray in whatever way you like.。
We're going to pray for Andrea, who is in a hospice in Watford in the UK, suffering。
from what the doctors have said is terminal cancer.。
Let's pray.。
I always finish my sermons with a challenge.。
I want to finish today with a challenge for every one of you to be part of what I call。
a new breed.。
Now, what do I mean by that?。
On the 28th of February 2006 at the Vine Centre in Central, Sandra and I received a prophecy。
from a preacher called Dr. Kingsley Fletcher that will shape our future ministry.。
Part of it, I won't give it all to you.。
He said that John and Sandra are part of a new breed that God is raising up around the。
world.。
Let go so that he becomes God.。
God will be teaching you things that some things God will ask you to do that you won't。
find in any textbook or anyone else doing.。
This is not strange.。
God will use your uniqueness and will make you to be stronger.。
You will chase lasting impact in his kingdom.。
Two months later, I was in New York City.。
I woke early on the 21st of April.。
I was still jet lagged.。
And I sense God say this to me for the church in the marketplace.。
Please test it.。
I say to you, church of the 21st century arise for you are a new breed.。
Have I not said, behold, I'm doing a new thing.。
Have I not said, do not dwell on the past.。
Now is the time to take me for my word.。
It will be manifested in you and will be a light for the whole world to see.。
Business people, you are a new breed.。
I will teach you things you did not learn at business school.。
Your anointing, your new anointing has nothing to do with your ability, but has everything。
to do with your availability.。
Remember I am the Potter.。
You are the clay.。
You have nothing to fear from the potter's kiln.。
I am the expert craftsman and will mold you into the unique design I have for you.。
I will give you a new heart and a new love for my church.。
I will give you a supernatural love for your pastors and church leaders.。
Do not try and mold your church leaders into the things you are expecting them to be.。
Allow me to do this.。
They will not be persuaded by words, by formula or by clever persuasion, by the love that。
you show them.。
As you show them my love, they will gradually link arms with you and you will be able to。
approach the commission I have given you in the way that I have intended, hand in hand.。
People will be attracted to this by the love you have for one another.。
I will use this to change the world.。
This new breed will become world changers, but only to the extent that they have received。
and given manifested my love.。
The new breed does not construct walls.。
It tears them down.。
The new breed does not fight for territory.。
It opens its borders.。
The new breed has no agenda except for that one who has ordained this new season.。
I say to you, arise, men and women of God, your time has come.。
My friends, will you join me and be part of this new breed?。
I'd like you just to close your eyes now.。
I want to give you a blessing.。
If you feel comfortable wherever you are, just hold your hands out in front of you.。
The blessing is this, may the love of God sustain us in our working.。
May the light of Jesus radiate our thinking and speaking.。
May the power of the spirit penetrate all our deliberating.。
And may all that is done witness to your presence in our lives.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
