Good evening. How are you all today? Good? All right. It's great to be here. I love sharing。
a message where I can see you and you can see me physically here. I think it's a blessing。
that we're able to do that tonight. And today I do have a very special message that I want。
to share with you all because a lot of times we might think that as a Christian, we might。
just get by day to day. But in fact, we are able to be more than conquerors and we can。
be victors that do not compromise. So I don't know, maybe some of you have believed in God。
for a short time and maybe some of you have believed for a much longer time. And maybe。
you've read the Bible, you've heard the sermon, and you've even tried to apply it to your。
life. But don't you wonder for a moment sometimes, am I doing it right? And when I say doing。
it right, am I worshiping God in a way that is pleasing to him? Or am I missing something?。
And tonight, while we get to share this message together and hear from the Lord, it's a chance。
for us to reexamine and realign. So it's kind of like our midyear review. Now, who looks。
forward to our midyear reviews here? Anybody? All right, that's what I thought, okay? I。
might be the only one who is, Pastor John. Now, we don't look forward to midyear reviews.。
Why? Because we don't really want to know what we're not doing right or we don't really。
want to know what more we have to do. But you know what? You might want to dismiss that。
appointment and you might want to kind of call in sick that day. But I want to say tonight。
that we're going to do a midyear review with our Christian walk and our worship. And I。
want to say you don't want to miss that because we don't want to get to the end of our lives。
thinking that we've worshipped God exactly the way that he wanted us to and pleased him。
and only to find out he tells us otherwise at that time. So tonight we get to do that。
with the Word of God, with revelation, which we have been looking at over the few weeks。
and we'll be doing that for the remaining few weeks as well, where we get to see Jesus。
speaking to his church and telling us how we're doing. So I don't know, is that going。
to make everybody excited right now? All right. So let's begin by reading these verses. It's。
up on here. From Revelation chapter 2, verse 12 to 13. "And to the angel of the church。
in Pergamum write the words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword. I know where you。
dwell, where Satan's throne is, yet you hold fast my name and you did not deny my faith,。
even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness who was killed among you where Satan dwells."。
And now we can see from Apostle John where he records that this letter is written to。
the church of Pergamum. Now we are not sure right now in this moment what or who this。
person is that's telling the church because all we have is this description of him, which。
is someone holding on the sharp two-edged sword. Now we look throughout the Bible, there。
are different places where they mentioned the two-edged sword and it is actually the。
meaning of the word of God where he cuts and he examines and he will judge. And so we can。
be quite sure to say that this letter was in fact from Jesus himself to the church.。
But even if we have answered that question, I mean, why is it Satan's throne? And so it。
seems like they're holding fast to his name and who's Antipas anyways? And why is it keep。
talking about Satan dwells there? So now we're going to dig a little bit deeper into the。
background and I just want to let you know where Pergamum is. And it's actually located。
in Turkey today, it's called Pergamum. And so, Pergamum, it's all these names that are。
very similar. And so what we find is that if we look, Pergamum at that time, which is。
first and second century, it should look something like this. And it's actually quite a beautiful。
city if we look at it. It's built on top of a hill and it's got its own buildings. And。
in here, we actually have a library that has over 200,000 volumes. Now at that time, they。
were written by hand. Okay, so this is a massive library, which means that this city is actually。
has a lot of knowledge. But it's not famous for that, actually. It's famous for being。
a place where people would worship pagan gods, where people from all around the Asia, minor。
Asia, they're going to come and they're going to worship these gods. And that's why Jesus。
is calling this place Satan's throne. Now I just want to show you a few pictures of。
what it is like. So right now on the right hand side, you're going to see Pergamum. These。
are the remains of it and also the floor plan. Don't worry, I'm not an architect and we're。
not about to go to the details of this. But I do want to show you what a massive amount。
of temples that they have here. This is the Pergamum altar, which now we can still find。
parts of it and reconstruct it in Berlin. And we can also see the temple of Dianosys.。
Is that how it's pronounced? I'm not sure. And then we also see the temple of Athena.。
This one I can pronounce. And also the temple of Trajan. Now why I want to stop here for。
a moment, because this is actually a temple not for gods, a mytholic god. This one is。
actually one that was for a living emperor. So at that time, they already began to worship。
human beings. And this one, as you can see, is actually much more monumental to the other。
ones that we just saw. And so I won't go through the whole list, as you can see. There are。
at least eight temples that are there at Pergamum. Now why do I need to tell you all this background?。
Well because at that time, those were the people that the Christians were surrounded。
with. They wanted to worship other gods. And so here the Bible is telling us that if you。
were Christian at that time, they were situated in a place where they were surrounded by all。
these pagan worship. And as a Christian, if you had to live out your faith at that time,。
you would be boycotted easily. And also because they were worshipping emperors, which meant。
if you didn't make a sacrifice to him, that would have been what happened. And as we see。
here, actually Antipas stood up for his faith. And this is what had happened to him, that。
he had been this faithful witness, and yet he was killed. He was martyred. And we can。
see that Jesus is actually applauding this church for doing such a great job because。
there were people who were willing to stand up for their faith, even in this tough situation.。
And if you want to review more, we actually had a great sermon preached by Pastor Johnny。
last week, and you can see how it is that we can withstand persecutions at this time,。
when it's hard, when it's tough. But in here, what we can see is that Jesus is telling the。
church, "You're doing a great job. You're persevering. You're keeping my name. It's。
all good." Okay? Now, what does it have to do with us? I mean, hopefully we're not professing。
our faith in such a way that we might be persecuted and then we have to die or be executed, and。
we don't, and we thank God for it. But big or small, we are still making these sacrifices。
for God sometimes when we are being persecuted. And it might be from your family, if your。
family has a different belief, and if you try to stand up to them, they might give you。
a hard time. Or it might be your colleagues, or it might be your friends. And so big or。
little, we might be doing that. However, God's really telling us here that persevering in。
the midst of persecution is important, but it isn't complete yet. And he's about to tell。
us what is it that we're missing. Our mid-year review is coming. You know, they usually start。
with the good stuff, and now we get to the meat. So let's read this together. In verse。
14, "But I have a few things," not a lot, you know, just a few, "that I have to tell。
you. You have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling。
block before the sons of Israel so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice。
sexual immorality. So also, you have some who hold the teaching of Nicolaitan." I tried。
to practice that word, but it still didn't work out. And so what we see here is that。
Jesus is telling them, "Yes, you did great, but there's a few things." But when we look。
at this, I mean, what is this teaching of Balaam anyways? And what does eating food。
sacrificed to idol or sexual immorality, we might get, but what does it have to do with。
us? So what we see, if we look back into the Old Testament, Balaam was actually a pagan。
prophet, and he didn't believe in God, and he was hired by Balak, King Balak, which is。
a foreign king, and he told, I know there's all this Balaam, Balak. So Balak told Balaam。
that he had to curse the Israelites. But because God had prevented that from happening, instead,。
Balaam thought, "All right, I'll devise a plan. What I'm going to do is I'm going to。
get the foreign women to sleep with the men of Israel, and then to get them to worship。
the pagan gods, and then God, the real God, will be against them." And so Balaam, or the。
teachings of Balaam, actually means for us today that they have permitted a compromise,。
one that would mingle with the worldly or the pagan beliefs and action, and actually。
be away from God. So whenever we are referring to the teaching of Balaam or Nicolaitans,。
we actually mean it in this way, where it is a way to still continue to worship other。
gods. Now, let me put it in kind of like today's term, because we're not, we're like, "Who's。
Balaam? Balak?" You know, most of you might be thinking, at least I was when I was reading。
it. I mean, think about it this way. The church today, and it might be us too, what we're。
doing is we're professing to our friends, our family, that we are Christians. We are,。
and we're standing firm in our faith. But at the same time, it might be that we're continuing。
ways of thinking or actions that are no different than non-believers. And so we're holding hands。
together, one to God and one to the pagan gods. And we're like, "No, no, no, that's。
not me. I'm not holding anybody's, wait, I'm holding on God's hand, but I'm not holding。
on that hand." But I mean, as we read a little bit more, we can all examine to see。
whether or not we are holding hands to the world and to the pagan gods. And so one of。
the things that they've told us here is that they were eating these food that were sacrificed。
to idols. Okay? Now we're like, "What does, again, what does that have to do with us?。
Are we going to go to the restaurant and ask, 'Has this steak been sacrificed to idols?'"。
I mean, we're not going to do that, and it's not teaching us to do that here. But what。
it is saying is, are we separating something that's as neutral as food? Because food is。
neutral. But are we separating that and consecrating it and saying that this is for the Lord, this。
is for the Lord, and this is not? And if we are, then we're setting apart some of the。
things that are happening in our lives, and those might be people and those might be things。
in our lives that we're not giving to God. And instead, whenever we're not giving it。
to God, we're giving it to pagan gods, the world. And so what we find is that when this。
really represents us compromising at times and going with the world. And the second block。
or second stumbling block that it talks about here is that they practice sexual immorality.。
And in here, it can mean both things, actually physically practicing or metaphorically, they。
are also following idols or ways of doing things as the non-believers. So anyhow, the。
teaching of Balaam is trying to tell us that whenever it is that we're professing that。
we are Christians, but at the same time, we're still following the world, then we're actually。
having these sacrifice idols or we're worshipping these idols. So now in here, we really need。
to examine ourselves. I mean, are we still following the world or not? I don't know.。
That's a rhetorical question for you. But as we dig deeper later in the third session,。
we'll see and you can do a further examination. So what we see here is that Jesus is trying。
to tell us, purge, take away all of these idolatrous compromises in your life. You can't。
be both believers of Christians and also still be eating these sacrifices that has been sacrificed,。
these foods have been sacrificed to other gods. You can't do that. You can't believe。
in God and at the same time, still have these sexual immoralities in your life. And so as。
we read on, Jesus says, "Therefore, repent. If not, I will come to you and war against。
them with the sword of my mouth." Again, we're seeing that Jesus is not going to take it。
and say, "All right, you know, have your own time." He says he will come and he will come。
to us, the people, whoever it is, that are still holding on both things, that are still。
worshipping other gods. And so we need to ask ourselves again, are we those people?。
Because if we are, Jesus says himself will come against us. I don't know about you, but。
I definitely don't want Jesus to be coming against me. And as we read on, he says, "He。
who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers,。
I will give some of the hidden manna and I will give him a white stone with a new name。
written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it." Now here we can。
see that God's not saying, "I'm just going to come if you're not going to do what is。
rightful," but instead he's telling us, "No, no, no, but, but, but, if you would listen。
and repent, I have something in store for you. I have something for you, a promise,。
a reward." Now I don't know about you, but I'm very much into rewards. Whenever there's。
like a rewards point app, I get that and I try to get as many points as I can. And I。
mean, if I'm going to get any points, I think this is the app I want to get with God, you。
know, let's see how I'm going to get these points. And really he's telling us, "You're。
going to get great stuff, okay?" And the very first thing that he tells us is this hidden。
manna. We're like, "What is manna anyways?" Manna is actually this honey bread that God。
himself produced supernaturally for the Israelites when they exit, when they exited Egypt and。
they went into the promised land. Now it has been said that some of it has been stored。
with the ark and it's now, it will be restored at the end time. And so for him to say that。
you will get some of those hidden manna means that you will be part of that end time. You。
will, you will be restored at the time when the ark is as well. And at the same time,。
this manna also could represent a chance for us to banquet with, not a chance, but definitely。
a chance, definitely going to banquet with our King. Because at the end time, Jesus says。
that he would have a banquet of the lamb where he is going to come and take his bride, which。
is his church. And so what we see is if we reject the food contrasted earlier, that was。
being sacrificed to the idols, we will get this hidden manna, which is from God, and。
we'll get to feast with him in this end time. And that is a wonderful reward to have. And。
secondly, he also mentioned a white stone. I brought a white stone here. I brought a。
white, I'm not sure if it's like this or if it's a gigantic one, but you know, I got one。
here. It's a white stone. And he says that there will be a name written on it. There's。
something written on it. It's not my name. And, and so what does a white stone mean?。
Well, in those time, actually they had a lot of athletes and they would compete. And if。
you won, if you have the victor, you actually get a white stone. And what that really is,。
it's like a medal that you get in Olympic games. It means that you can tell the whole。
world I've won, I'm a victor. And so this stone represents that. And at the same time,。
in those days, when you have to attend any of the public assemblies that were restricted,。
actually this, a pebble would serve as the admission ticket. So the stone actually also。
has the admission ticket meaning. And it's really saying to us that we'll get a white。
stone that says we're victors. And this stone allows us, it gives us a ticket, a mission。
to this supper that we'll have with the Lord. And white has another meaning. In the book。
of Revelation is constantly mentioned as righteousness. So here it's really telling us that this is。
not a regular stone like this one on my hand. It represents so much and I want this reward.。
And so in the third thing, or the second, but then it's engraved, it's a new name. Now。
it says that nobody knows what it is. So don't even bother asking me what it is because I。
don't know. But what we do name is what a name represents. And it's telling us it's。
a new name. Now in those days when somebody knew your name, it meant that they knew you。
personally. It is an intimate fellowship. So in here it's telling us this new name means。
we're going to have an intimate fellowship with Christ. And also when you're given a。
new name, the giver of that name, or you actually belong to the person who gives you that name。
and you share the character as well as their power. So I know for us, we're like, it's。
easier to grasp if I say that Jesus will give you a 2000 square feet flat, that'll be very。
easy for you to understand. But if Jesus says these are valuable to us, I want to let you。
know that it must be so much more valuable than anything that you could ever imagine.。
I know for us, we're like, oh, it's just a banquet. Sometimes I eat too much there anyways,。
right? But this one is going to be with the Lord in end times and you don't want to miss。
it. And so today I actually want to share a testimony of mine with you as well. I mean,。
to put all these into context, because we're looking at revelation. We hardly understand。
half of the words or terms and we try to, and yet what does it really mean for us? How。
do I let go of that hand even if I wanted to? So I want to share a bit of my story with。
you, which is a while back, maybe more than a few years back. I was in a stage where I。
was a professing Christian and I had been for the last maybe 20 years at that time.。
Mind you again, I believed when I was really, really young. And so I was hanging on to God。
and I was going to church. I was going to small groups and all of those. And I felt。
like, oh, I felt pretty good. I felt like a good Christian. But at the same time, I。
also realized I was still hanging on to the world. Why do I say that? Well, I did meet。
a guy. Okay, now everybody wakes up when I say that. So I did meet a guy, right? And。
you know, he seemed to have everything together. I mean, all the things that the world would。
like. I mean, he was not bad looking. He was relatively tall and, you know, he owned his。
own business, which at that time was about to be IPO'd in a few years. And he owned cars。
and a number of properties. And not only that, but he was actually nice to me. And not only。
that, you would have thought, you know, guess how old this guy is, right? I mean, he was。
only my age too. So I mean, it seemed to have almost everything. And then, of course, I。
asked, oh, so are you a Christian? And you know, he says, yes, I believe in God. I'm。
like, oh, he believes in God. All right. It's like bingo, right? And then he says, oh, but。
I don't go to church. I'm like, oh, okay, you don't go to church. I thought, that's。
all right. Everything else seems pretty good, you know. I can compromise on, you know, not。
going to church that much. But whenever I went, you know, he would go too. So I'm like,。
okay, everything is good. And you know, a few months in, he started asking or wanting。
to get more intimate. And when I meant that, he actually asked to want to have sex during。
a time when we were just dating. And at that time, it was another thing to think about.。
Is one thing not to go to church, I can compromise with that. But this is sexual immorality.。
And as a Christian girl, you know, all the alarm bells goes off. And what do you do with。
that? But all I had to do was to compromise. And if I compromise, everything else would。
be mine. Could be. I don't know. Nobody really knows, right? Could be. You wanted the car,。
you wanted the properties. How about being called the chairman's wife? That sounds good.。
And so what I realized was my heart was worshiping pagan gods. I love those things. I love the。
money. I love the prestige. I love the status that it would bring to me, not to mention。
the person. I loved everything. But there was a price. That's a price. Just one compromise.。
I suppose you want to know the ending of the story? So the ending of the story is that。
I told him, I'm a Christian. This is beyond my compromise. And that either we would get。
married or we'll continue to date, but then you would stop pressuring me into it. And。
so that didn't quite work for him. And it's understandable. I don't want to say that this。
is a bad person or anything. But that it was simply not a good fit. Because I, myself,。
was actually torn between the two. It was actually me that had the problem. Not him.。
He was living his life. But me. And so eventually I told him that we would break up. And we。
did. And I think it was then that I really broke down in front of God. And I asked him,。
I said, God, why? I've been a Christian all my life. All my life. And what's happening?。
Why is it that I'm still loving this world? It's not like I even want to. I want to love。
you and you only. But I still love these things. I still want to go. And it's heartbreaking。
for me at that time. Why? And I realized it was because I was worshipping the pagan gods.。
I was eating the sacrifice food. Food was neutral, remember? These things are neutral.。
I'm not saying, you know, if you meet somebody like that and he's a Christian, love God,。
go ahead. Okay? Not saying that. But what I am saying is that those things were actually。
tying me down. They were my bondages and I can't get rid of them. And when I asked God。
what's happening, that's the answer he told me. Or that's what he revealed to me. That。
I still loved all these things after being a Christian. And that's exactly what's happening。
in this church. That we're looking at Pergamum. They love God, but they also love the world.。
If they didn't, they wouldn't be eating those food to begin with. But they still loved it.。
And so after the prayer that I had with God, God started to transform me. And I mean, and。
it's in progression. I mean, it's not like one day I'm suddenly different. Maybe for。
some of you that's possible. But for me, it was a progression of a number of years. And。
throughout those years, God did a heart surgery and he changed my perspective. And I was slowly。
able to let go of this world, of the pagans, of this worship. And I wanted to tell you。
that the Lord himself tastes so good. And it's so good to only be holding hands with。
the Lord. Because all those things and whatever it is, we think Jesus is posting like another。
rule for us. It's not. It's God loving us. Because the only way that we could truly taste。
his goodness, if we hold double hands to him, not one, but both. And so he allowed me to。
really taste his goodness to a point where I say, God, I really want to tell others about。
it. And so he allowed me to go to seminary to study and to become a pastor. And of course,。
here I am standing. I can't even believe that it's happening, but it is. And I want to say。
it's not me. Okay. It's definitely not me. Because throughout those years, I still held。
on. It was because of God's grace that he delivered me. And today I want to say that。
he's given me a new system, new value system, one that is dependent on him, one that wants。
to please him. And of course, he let me meet another man. This is when you wake up again.。
Let me meet another man. And this time it's different. I mean, he might not be the tallest。
person, but hey, I'm short. Okay. So no problem for me. It's all about a good match. But he。
is someone who loves the Lord and who honors him and who takes his teaching and put it。
into a priority. And he is someone who has the fruit of the spirit, loving kindness,。
gentle, and a very willing heart to love me. Willing in the sense he's going to wait until。
after marriage before we get intimate. Right? And that's love in God. And even yesterday。
when I was preparing for this, he's able to give me feedbacks in terms of how to make。
it even better. And even as I asked him, is it okay for me to share this testimony? And。
he's supportive of that. And I believe that he has all the characteristics that I would。
find to build a God-centered, God-honoring family. And I believe that it's all these。
things that are important. But when we were holding on and worshiping other gods, we can't。
help but not see that. And, oh, maybe I should show you a photo of him. His name is Philemon.。
And he's my fiance now. And if, I mean, when, if God permits, we'll be getting married in。
January. So. And really, I mean, friends, what is it that I want to say to you today?。
This is not a dating 101 class. Okay? Maybe some of you are like, wait a minute, I'm way。
past that. What I do want to say, though, is that this is how we worship our God. With。
our relationships, with our career, with our family, with everything that we own, our money,。
and everyone in our lives. And if we were true to use this church, Pergamon, to examine。
ourselves, we'll see that maybe there are some parts we're not giving. For example,。
I mean, if we wanted to, if we were worshiping our pagan gods, okay, what would it look like。
as a career? We will want to climb the corporate ladder. For what? So we can make more money,。
be more prestigious, and people would envy us, and we can have nice cars, and maybe nice。
apartment, right? But if we were to say, no, I'm not going to sacrifice, I'm not going。
to worship the pagan gods with my career. I'm going to worship it with my God. What's。
that going to look like? It means that I'm going to do my very best and have the best。
integrity. I'm going to go on time. I know that's hard for some of us. I'm going to go。
on time. I'm going to give 100% even when you're working at home, okay? Because of COVID.。
Why is nobody laughing? I guess you're all working really hard. Good. Or with the money。
that we make at this career, all of that, so then when we are excelling in our job,。
our co-worker is going to ask, why are you doing all this? Nobody's looking. And we can。
say, I do it for him. And he gets the glory. And that's how it is that we don't have to。
worship those pagan gods with our career, but we can worship God with it. And same thing。
for those who have children or grandchildren. How is it that we can worship our God? Instead。
of like worshiping the pagan gods, what would we do? We'll try to get them into the best。
school and then look at our friends. Did you get into that school? Oh no, I got mine into。
that school. Or we might be looking to see, are they achieving? And maybe their achievements。
become our achievements. And we feel really great about it. Or is it if we're going to。
worship God with our children or with your grandchildren, what would that look like?。
It would mean that I want to make sure that they're learning God's word. I want to make。
sure their character is built so that they are just like Jesus is. And I want to help。
them so that they can finish whatever will that God has for them. So you see, I don't。
know what it is that we might still be holding on or you might still be holding on with your,。
I'm using left hand, I suppose you can switch sometimes, that you're still hanging on. But。
what I do want to say is that we can examine and with our relationships, with our family,。
with our job, with our money, with everything that we have, let's not worship pagan gods。
with them. Let's not worship the world. Give those things to God and allow him to be the。
center of your lives and with all these things. And so today I really want to invite you to。
think, is there anything in your heart that's popping up now? Because one of the things。
that we need to do is we need to purge out anything, any pagan thoughts, any worldly。
thoughts or actions. It may actually include sexual immorality in your life too. And if。
that's the case, we need to purge that out. And also if we can't, we need to repent and。
just tell God, "God, I wanted to, I can't." Go to him every time, "I wanted to, I can't.。
Help me, God." And he is here to help us. And I wanted to say, if it weren't for the。
prayer, if it weren't for an answer to prayer of Jesus, like my life would not have been。
transformed. Probably not. But when we ask him, he is willing and he's powerful. He is。
the one that didn't only die on the cross for our sins, but he has resurrected and he。
has overcome not only sin, but death. And he can help us be overcomers, be victors.。
He can help us so that we don't need to compromise, not even on one thing. And we don't compromise,。
not even on one thing. And we can ask Jesus to do that. And at the very end, of course,。
I'm not sure about you, but I'm going to try my very best to get these rewards. Okay? I've。
been getting all the rewards from all the other restaurants. So I figured I better get。
this one because it is the ultimate reward that we can get. The ones from Jesus are the。
best and he wants the best for us. So now, since we're going to be Christians, anyways,。
let's fight the good fight. Let's run the good race. Let's give it all that we have.。
Let's not compromise on even one thing. And this is what the Bible said, "He who has an。
ear, let him hear what the spirit says to the churches." And I pray that really, that。
all of us would be the ones who have ears because God's ready to help us and he has。
got those rewards stored for us. We just need to ask him. So let us pray together right。
now. May I ask all of you to stand? Let's stand and ask the God, our King, to help us.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you. You are the overcomer of all things and you are the。
one that's worthy of praises. And Father God, you knew who we were before you saved us,。
but you're still willing to pay the price, which is your life for us. And Father, you。
meant for it that in this life that we live in, that we would be conquerors and more.。
This is what you have planned for us. And Father, when it is that we fall short, I pray。
and we pray together that your spirit would help us to change us, to transform us, to。
give us a new perspective, new ways of doing things, ones that would worship you, help。
us repent, help us go to you. And Father, we know the ending of the story already, which。
is you are going to make us conquerors. You're going to make us victors. And so Father, we're。
hanging on to that truth, hanging on to your spirit and your power. And Father, we're going。
to say we're willing to give it all to you. Help us. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
