[Music]。
[Speaking in Cantonese] Welcome to KFCI Online Worship. It's so great to have you join us. We're going to have an awesome time of worship, prayer and the Word.。
I hope you're staying home, staying safe and staying with Jesus Christ. Let's give it over to our worship team.。
[Music]。
Hey all, welcome to Online Church. I just want to encourage you all just to step into a place where we can open our hearts to what God has for us today。
and that we can really worship Him with our whole hearts and our whole beings.。
So whether that's if you change things up or you sit, stand, kneel, lie down, just really encourage you to just get into a place, whatever that is for you, where you can just worship Him fully.。
[Music]。
God, I look.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
God, I look to see you. I won't be overwhelmed. Give me vision. I see things like you do.。
God, I look to you. You're where my hope comes from. Give me wisdom. You know just what to do.。
I will love you, Lord, my strength. I will love you, Lord, my shield. I will love you, Lord, my rock. Forever all my days I will love you, God.。
[Music]。
God, I look to you. I won't be overwhelmed. Give me vision. I see things like you do.。
God, I look to you. You're where my hope comes from. Give me wisdom. You know just what to do.。
I will love you, Lord, my strength. I will love you, Lord, my shield. I will love you, Lord, my rock. Forever all my days I will love you, God.。
[Music]。
Sing again, Hallelujah.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns. Hallelujah, our God reigns. Hallelujah, our God reigns. Forever all my days, Hallelujah.。
Oh, God reigns. Oh, King Lord. Forever all my days, Hallelujah.。
I will love you, Lord, my strength. I will love you, Lord, my shield. I will love you, Lord, my rock. Forever all my days I will love you, God.。
I will love you, Lord, my strength. I will love you, Lord, my shield. I will love you, Lord, my rock. Forever all my days I will love you, God.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
I see the King of glory coming on the clouds with fire. The whole earth shamed. The whole earth shamed. Yeah.。
I see His love and mercy washing over all our sins. People sing. People sing.。
And Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest. And Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
[Music]。
I see His generation rising up to take their place with selfless faith, with selfless faith.。
I see Him in revival stirring as we pray and sing. We're on our knees. We're on our knees.。
And Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest. And Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
Break my heart. Break my heart, for what breaks yours. For everything I am, for your kingdom's cause. As I walk from earth into eternity.。
And Hosanna.。
Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest. And Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
And Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest. And Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest.。
Hosanna in the highest. Hosanna in the highest.。
Thank you, worship team. We're going to spend a bit of time now as a church, praying. It's so important, even with KFC online, for us to spend this time to pray for the needs of our world and to pray for the needs of Hong Kong.。
So, if you'd like to join with me, firstly I'll pray for the world situation and then Bonnie will pray for Hong Kong.。
Father God, we thank you that we can meet together, that we have this freedom to worship you, even online today.。
We pray for our world situation. We pray for world leaders. We know, Lord, their job is not easy. And we pray for the deteriorating virus around the world, for the increase in the number of cases.。
We pray for medical staff everywhere. And we pray, Lord, that you give leaders, medical teams and others the wisdom to be able to deal with this virus.。
We recognize, above all, Lord, that you're the healer. And we ask for you to come upon our world, bring healing, bring restoration.。
I pray particularly today for those who have been bereaved, have lost loved ones. I just pray you'll comfort them.。
And I pray that your church around the world will rise up at this time and to be the church that's outside the buildings.。
Help us to be your hands and feet. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.。
Yeah, Lord, just thank you so much for this opportunity to be able to still do church online, Lord.。
We just want to pray for our city's leaders and just pray that you will continue to give them wisdom, Lord.。
And just, yeah, Lord, the courage to be able to make hard decisions, even when it affects our city a lot, Lord.。
We also pray for the people, Lord. We pray for their safety from the epidemic, Lord. We pray for people's businesses.。
We know that the economy has been not as good as it could have been in recent days, Lord.。
But we just know that you are the provider, Lord. We know that you will continue to provide and make sure that we are well, Lord.。
So we just, yeah, Lord, we just pray for our city and for our people.。
Lord, we also pray for our churches, Lord, across Hong Kong. We pray that all of us will continue to stay faithful during this time,。
especially those who have just been struggling with their faith during this difficult time, Lord.。
We also pray that those in the churches will be able to just be your hands and feet during this time, Lord,。
to just reach out and to care for other people, even though we may be restricted to gatherings of four.。
So, yeah, Lord, we just pray that you will continue to give us love, care and compassion,。
and that we would really be able to fully demonstrate your strength and your compassion.。
And just also, yeah, Lord, really be true witnesses and followers of you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.。
Yes, Lord, we pray for Pastor James as he brings this word to us.。
Just pray that this word will come to our heart, Lord, that it will just not be words, but the words will be turned into action in Jesus' name.。
Amen. And now the word of God.。
Hello, everyone. So we continue with the series on Jesus as King.。
And as we're building up to Easter, really exploring all the different facets of Jesus' kingship over our lives,。
his sovereignty over this world. And today we're going to be looking at the King's recital.。
And, you know, one of the things about Jesus is that he was a storyteller. He loved telling stories.。
We all love listening to stories because stories often give us so much help in helping us remember some of life's lessons.。
Maybe we all remember the story of Boy Cries Wolf and the lessons that we learn as a child during that time.。
And Jesus used stories and he called them parables. And these parables would be packed with layers and lessons where we could learn from.。
And one of the reasons why he used them is that it really gave the people who really wanted to learn a chance to learn.。
You know, Jesus says those who seek will find. And in the parables of all these layers and lessons,。
we could delve into them and be guided by the spirit in really having lessons that we can take away and apply into our lives.。
And today in this short message, I want to cover two very, very short parables, two very short stories Jesus told to teachers.。
Something about the kingdom of heaven, something about his kingdom.。
And if I can ask you to turn with me to Matthew, chapter 13, verse 44 to 46.。
There's only three verses and there's two parables worth here as well.。
So let me just read them to you. The parable of the hidden treasure.。
The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field which a man found and covered up.。
And in his joy, he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field.。
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls, who on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it.。
So two parables, very short, right next to each other, often treated as twins and often preached on together, which is what I'm doing today.。
As we look at these three verses, I wanted to share three very simple observations about what I found when I read these two parables and some lessons that we can apply to our situation right now.。
And the first one is this. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field.。
A treasure that is hidden in a field. Now, it's important to note here, the kingdom of heaven isn't the treasure itself necessarily, but the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field.。
This treasure that is of ultimate worth, that this labourer, most likely a labourer who found whilst working a field that did not belong to him.。
You see, treasure back in those days was quite commonly found buried in the ground, because back then there were no banks.。
So if you had any valuables, you would often bury them in the field so no one would find them.。
But of course, over time, people would die and some of these treasures would just stay in the ground because their location, their whereabouts would not be told to loved ones around.。
So then what happens here is there's most likely a labourer who's working the field that does not belong to him.。
And as he's working, he finds this treasure. And the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field.。
And this reminds me of something that often the kingdom of heaven, often God is found in the ordinary.。
It's found in the field that we're working and it doesn't even look that sassy.。
Yet, that is where we find the kingdom of heaven.。
You see, we're often always engrossed with this idea that God is extraordinary, supernatural, and he is all those things.。
And we can think back to maybe, for those of us who are believers, think back to big events in our lives where God has shown up,。
whether it was in a conference or in a big event or maybe a big life moment like getting married or having children or getting your dream job.。
But if we're not careful, we start trying to associate God with the whole of our lives, but just limit him to some of those extraordinary events.。
When really God is everywhere and God is in the extraordinary, but also in the ordinary.。
The kingdom of heaven is like treasure that is hidden in a field.。
And so for me, especially during the season, during the coronavirus, where a lot of us are just isolating at home,。
we often need the reminder that actually God is with us, even in those ordinary moments,。
even in those times where it doesn't feel that spiritual, where it doesn't feel that fun,。
yet reminding ourselves that God is actually with us.。
God is in the ordinary and in the extraordinary.。
You know, the prophet Elijah in the Old Testament in 1 Kings 19, he was waiting to hear from God as well.。
And as he was waiting to hear from God, first there was a strong wind, but God wasn't there.。
And then there was an earthquake, but God wasn't there.。
Then a big fire came and God wasn't there.。
It was after all these big events that happened that God then turned up and he showed up in a still, small voice.。
The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field.。
And then we see the apostle Paul in Romans 1 talking about God, his invisible attributes are seeped into creation itself.。
For those who want to find it, will find it.。
And this really makes me think that actually whilst the kingdom of heaven is hid often in the ordinary, it can still be found.。
And what we see here in these two parables is you have one who is a labourer, who found it by accident,。
by working a field, by doing work, getting on with life in this ordinary field and stumbling across this treasure.。
But then you find another example, which is the second parable, where the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls.。
And he's actually searching for the kingdom of heaven.。
So the kingdom of heaven, although it is hidden, can also be found.。
And it's up to us to go and look for it.。
It's up to us to go and seek and search and yearn for the kingdom of heaven.。
In Matthew chapter 6, Jesus talks to us about 'ask and you will receive, seek and you will find, knock and the door will be opened'.。
It's our job, living on this earth, to go and find this creator, to go and find him and he is there.。
Although hidden, he is there to be found.。
And you know, in Jesus' sermon on the man in the Beatitudes, chapter 5 verse 8 in Matthew, says this,。
'Blessed are those who are pure in heart, for they shall see God'.。
And we often use that verse to kind of help us in the battle against lust and temptation.。
But actually, when Jesus says the words 'blessed are those who are pure in heart',。
he's actually talking about blessed are those who have a single-minded devotion, who have a tunnel vision in seeking God.。
Basically, it's those who want to see God, will see God.。
And so the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. It is hidden and can be found.。
That is the first point.。
So my question really to all of us is, how much are we trying to notice and be aware of God in these ordinary surroundings?。
When we're trapped at home, when there doesn't seem to be much going on, how aware are we of his presence?。
How much are we looking for him in the ordinary and in the extraordinary?。
Because he's there in both. How aware are we of God's presence, of the kingdom of heaven in our lives?。
That was the first point.。
The second one is this. The verse carries on in verse 44,。
'Then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field'.。
See, this labourer who's working this field finds this treasure, covers it up.。
This parable isn't trying to give us any kind of ethics or moral teaching here.。
It's just a story to highlight the value of the kingdom of heaven.。
So he covers it up, then he goes away, and in his joy he sells everything that he has to buy that field.。
Because once he buys the field, then the treasure is his.。
In his joy, that's his response. It's full of joy.。
He knows the worth of the treasure, and he's willing to give up everything that he has for it.。
How often in our Christian lives do we sometimes think,。
'Ah, there's so many things I have to give up to be a Christian.。
There's so many things that I can't do to be a Christian. There's so many rules to follow.。
God is so cramping my style. I'm not allowed to do this, I'm not allowed to do that.。
God, do you understand how much you're asking me to give up?'。
But really, it's just down to a question of worth.。
Do we really know how much the gospel is worth in our lives?。
Do we really know the true value of knowing Jesus?。
So the question is, like, is $500 expensive?。
Well, it depends what you're buying with that $500.。
If you're wanting to buy a chocolate bar with that $500, then I'd say that's very, very expensive.。
But if you're wanting to buy a house with it, then I'd say it's very, very cheap.。
So when it comes to talking about the kingdom of heaven, we first need to realise what its worth is.。
The labourer in the field in this parable knows the worth of the treasure.。
And he's willing to sell everything that he has and be completely filled with joy about it,。
because he knows what he's getting in return.。
So often when we're moaning or just complaining or just feeling down about everything that we feel as though we have to give up,。
what it maybe really is telling us is we don't really truly know the worth of knowing Jesus Christ.。
When we're complaining about our lives, when we're not filled with thankfulness and gratefulness,。
maybe that's what's really showing, being exposed, is that we don't really truly know the value and the worth of being in a relationship with our Creator.。
You know, the Apostle Paul in Philippians talks about it like this.。
He said, "All I once held dear I count now as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus Christ."。
So Paul, who had so much in life, once he met Jesus, he knew that that was incomparable,。
that he would willingly give up everything that he had before because knowing Jesus was that worthwhile,。
knowing that Jesus was really worth that much.。
The Kingdom of Heaven is like treasure hidden in a field which a man found and in his joy sells all that he has.。
Which brings me to a second point within this second point.。
It's that this guy sells everything that he has.。
And what it tells me is when we're talking about the Kingdom of Heaven, when we're dealing in this currency, there really is no halfway house.。
This guy did not in his joy go and sell half that he has to get the Kingdom of Heaven.。
But he has to sell everything.。
There is no halfway house. We have to be all in.。
Again, this goes back to the Beatitude.。
"Blessed are those who are pure in heart, single-mindedly, utterly devoted to the Kingdom of Heaven."。
And so what we see here is this guy is willing to give up everything to gain a relationship with Jesus.。
And for us, sometimes, I think, at least especially for me, I ask, "Why isn't God filling me up more?。
Why aren't I feeling his presence more?"。
And then I wonder actually whether it's because I've not really been willing to let go of certain things.。
I'm not willing to empty my hands. So how can he fill me?。
If we're only willing to go half the way, if we're still holding on to some of the sins, holding on to some of the distractions or desires of this world,。
then there's no wonder why God can't fill us.。
Because we're holding on to these different things.。
So what about us? Do we have that joy when we encounter God and the Gospel?。
Do we have that joy that spurs us on to wanting to sell everything that we have, to let go of it all,。
to count everything that we once held dear as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus?。
You know, one of the things that this coronavirus situation has brought about is the fact that our lives are now completely stripped out.。
A lot of the things that we had, especially in a city like Hong Kong, where we're used to living on 15-minute schedules and timetables,。
with all these things going on in our lives, now they're all stopped.。
And I was thinking about this. I was like, "You know what? Life really is quite tough right now because there's so many things that we can't do."。
And then it just really started to make me think, "Well, actually, what were the non-negotiables in my life anyway?。
What were the key pillars? What are the most important things in my life?"。
And I'm thinking, "Oh, well, the most important things are, I guess, family, spending time with those we love,。
spending time with God, reading His Word, praying, being in fellowship with brothers and sisters, and eating is important, I guess."。
Then I was like, "Oh, we've not lost any of those things."。
In fact, what the virus situation has done is forced us to stop, to let go of a lot of the distractions that we filled our lives with before.。
And then it made me think, "Actually, in that case, I really need to think about what my non-negotiables are.。
What are the key pillars in my life?。
What are the things, actually, when life does return to normal, that I really shouldn't let back into my life now that I've let them go?。
What were the distractions before that, now that I've had to stop, but what are the things that maybe I could do without?"。
Because that's what a crisis does. It really makes you re-evaluate what is important to you.。
And for us as believers, as we look at this passage here, this labourer is filled with joy as he sells everything that he has.。
Do we have that joy in letting everything that we have go, and in exchange, gaining a relationship with Jesus Christ,。
in exchange, gaining the Kingdom of Heaven and eternity with Him?。
That is my second point. In His joy, He sold all that He had because of the surpassing worth of the Kingdom.。
And the final point is this. The second parable says this, "The Kingdom of Heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls,。
who on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it."。
And in many ways, this parable is connected and related to the first parable.。
It's talking about the priority of the Kingdom of Heaven.。
And as I was thinking about this, I realised there's another way to look at this second parable as well.。
Because the first one is a labourer who is working hard and eventually uncovers a treasure in a field.。
The second one is a merchant in search of fine pearls who is actively searching.。
And yes, that could be us actively searching for the Kingdom of Heaven, actively searching for God.。
But on the other hand, what this really reminds me was that Jesus Himself could be that merchant in search of fine pearls.。
Maybe the second parable turns it around completely, whereas the first one is about us looking for God,。
the second one is about God looking for us.。
Can you imagine that our King, the Prince of Heaven, like this merchant in search of fine pearls,。
would search for us and look for us, and when He finds us, He deems us worthy enough to let go of everything that He has.。
In Philippians 2 it talks about this, that Jesus, even though He was in the form of God,。
He did not count equality with God as something to be grasped.。
When He saw us, He deemed us valuable enough, of so much worth that He was willing to give His life for us.。
This King that we serve, this shepherd who's willing to leave the 99 to go and find this one,。
now looks at us, each of us as individuals and says, "You are worth it.。
You are that fine pearl that I'm willing to sell everything that I have, my status and my throne in Heaven,。
and come down to Earth and sacrifice myself for you, because you, my child, are worth it."。
Isn't that a great feeling?。
We are the subject of this great King's love, that He would lavish and pour out His love on us, exchange His own life for us.。
That was His response to us.。
So how do we respond to Him?。
Do we continue to be distracted by the things of this world?。
Do we continue to hold on to all those things?。
Or do we respond with gratefulness, with thankfulness, and with joy,。
and let go of the things that are not so important and focus on the key pillars in our lives?。
And the most key, the highest priority, is the Kingdom of Heaven in our hearts.。
Jesus Christ Himself living with us.。
How willing are we to commit our lives to Him?。
These two parables are about priority.。
They're about how much value we place in God, how much worth we ascribe to Him.。
For us Christians, we often sing worship songs when we gather together.。
And of course the term "worship" derives from the term "worth."。
And when we're worshipping God, we're ascribing worth to Him.。
We're declaring and we're singing through song that He is worth our everything.。
That there are no riches in this world that compare to the richness of being in relationship with Him.。
That's why we worship.。
So as we respond now in Psalm, I encourage you, brother and sister, to really ponder on your own life.。
But actually, is God already working in your ordinary, seemingly mundane or even challenging life?。
How hard are you working in finding Him in those places, in the less glamorous places,。
especially during this time when we're not able to gather together?。
And once you find Him, are you filled with joy?。
And are you willing to give up everything else that you have and make Him your priority?。
Of course the answer should be yes, because He made us His priority.。
Brothers and sisters, bless you.。
And during this difficult time where we're still physically distancing,。
may the Spirit of God fill your homes and your families.。
Goodbye.。
[music]。
Oh, I am Lord, here before you, reaching out for more.。
You're the promise, never failing.。
You are my reward.。
You are my reward.。
I let go of all I have just to have all of you.。
And no matter what the cost, I will follow you.。
Jesus, everything I've lost, I have found in you.。
When I finally reach the end, I'll say, "You are worth it all."。
[music]。
There's no richer earthly treasure that could satisfy。
every longing for you, Jesus.。
Set this heart on fire.。
Set this heart on fire.。
I let go of all I have just to have all of you.。
And no matter what the cost, I will follow you.。
Jesus, everything I've lost, I have found in you.。
When I finally reach the end, I'll say, "You are worth it all."。
You are worth it all.。
When I'm there.。
When I'm there in your glorious presence,。
every knee is bowed before you.。
Hear the sound of heaven singing, "You are worth it all."。
All the saints sing, "Holy, holy." Angels sing, "You're worthy, worthy."。
Forever I will shout your praises.。
You are worth it all.。
When I'm there in your glorious presence,。
every knee is bowed before you.。
Hear the sound of heaven singing, "You are worth it all."。
All the saints cry, "Holy, holy." Angels sing, "You're worthy, worthy."。
Forever I will shout your praises.。
You are worth it all.。
Worth it all.。
I let go.。
I let go of all I have just to have all of you.。
And no matter what the cost, I will follow you.。
Jesus, everything I've lost, I have found in you.。
When I finally reach the end, I'll say, "I love you."。
I let go of all I have just to have all of you.。
And no matter what the cost, I will follow you.。
Jesus, everything I've lost, I have found in you.。
When I finally reach the end, I'll say, "You are worth it all."。
You are worth it all.。
[music]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
