So we're starting this, well, John started this series on judges last week and I get。
to carry on with it.。
I'll be honest with you, I don't think judges really is my favourite book.。
It makes me a little bit uncomfortable.。
I look at the depravity of man, I see these idiots almost going around in circles in the。
way they live.。
But there's something uncomfortable about it, at least for me, is that sometimes I see。
myself in the book of judges.。
It's a strange book, it really is a strange book.。
It details a time where first you had Moses and Joshua take the Israelites into the Promised。
Land, the land of Canaan.。
And then later on you have Israel where they have kings, King Saul, King David, King Solomon.。
But then you've got this really awkward time in the middle where they get into the land。
of Canaan, the Promised Land of milk and honey, but for some reason they just can't get it。
right.。
And they end up in this vicious cycle where they sin and then the enemy comes to take。
control over them and then they repent and then they cry out to God and then he delivers。
them time and time again.。
And after that they're grateful for him so they worship him, but then they forget.。
And then they forget and they slump down into sin and again they do evil in the sight of。
God and they're back round to the sinning again.。
And it's a cycle that really frustrates me when I read it and then I realise that this。
is in some ways part of my own life as well.。
And just for a little bit more context, to understand judges you also really have to。
look into Deuteronomy.。
You look into Deuteronomy where God is telling the Israelites, before you get into this Promised。
Land, look we've been wandering in the wilderness for a long time now, but we're nearly there.。
But before you get in I need you to remember, I preached about this in the Cantonese service。
a couple of weeks ago, Deuteronomy 6, here at Israel I am the only God.。
I am the only God that exists.。
Remember that.。
If there's everything else, if you forget everything else, remember that I am the only。
real God there.。
What's even more than that is that you need to love me with all your heart, soul and mind.。
What's even more than that, you have to have these commandments etched onto your hearts.。
What's even more than that, you have to teach them diligently to your children.。
When you're walking around at home, when you're standing, everything, you have to teach all。
these to your kids because if you don't, they will forget.。
And maybe not in your generation, but in the one after, they will forget.。
And at some point they're going to start on this cycle.。
And that's what Deuteronomy is, that's what God is telling the Israelites, do not, do。
not forget.。
But what do we see in judges?。
That's the very final verse of judges.。
And everyone did as they saw fit.。
Everyone did what they felt was right.。
Later on, we have the wisest king ever, Solomon in Proverbs, telling them in chapter three,。
trust in the Lord, lean not on your own understanding.。
Three verse seven, do not be wise in your own eyes.。
Do you think you're wise?。
Do you think you're smart?。
Do you think you're street smart in this world?。
Don't.。
Do not consider yourself wise, but trust only in God.。
But they failed to do that.。
We failed to do that.。
And that's why we're here talking today.。
And the title of today is Two Unlikely Heroes.。
We're going to jump into, look at some of these judges.。
In the chapter three, there are three judges.。
This Othniel is one of them.。
And then there's Ehud and Shamgar.。
We're only going to focus on two of them with the main focus on Ehud.。
And what we see here then is in chapter three, we see this cycle being played out.。
And I want to share four observations with you today in regards to this passage.。
And the four is this.。
The first one is that compromise often leads to demise.。
The compromise leads to demise.。
Number two is repentance leads to deliverance.。
But then, after that, we'll be looking at preparation leads to the action.。
And finally, the humility that leads to the victory.。
So we're going to be going through these four stages.。
And we'll start with the first one.。
Compromise leads to demise.。
And I'll be reading from the ESV here.。
Three, we'll only read a few verses just to start with.。
12 to 14.。
"And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord.。
And the Lord strengthened Eglon, the king of Moab, against Israel, because they had。
done what was evil in the sight of the Lord."。
Verse 13, "He gathered to himself the Ammonites and the Amalekites and went and defeated Israel.。
And they took possession of the city of Palms.。
And the people of Israel served Eglon, the king of Moab, 18 years."。
Eighteen years because they compromised.。
That led to their demise.。
See, God had given them very specific instructions.。
When you go into the land of Canaan, this is what you must do.。
Drive out everyone that is in there.。
You must start again.。
The people of Israel must be the ones that are completely determining the culture of。
this new land.。
That is what you must do.。
They had specific instructions, but they compromised.。
They didn't drive them all out.。
They saw some people and thought, "Hmm, that person's quite beautiful.。
We should really take, I should really take her as a wife.。
That person seems quite useful.。
Do we really need to drive them all out?。
Maybe we will keep them to be our servants.。
Maybe they will make us great."。
They compromised.。
They had instructions from God, but they didn't follow it completely.。
How good are we at following instructions?。
I'm trying not to look at my wife here right now because I know what she would say about。
me.。
We've moved house lots and lots of times.。
And one of the parts of adulting and moving house is what?。
Building IKEA furniture.。
And so, time and time again, I've built so many Billy wardrobes over the years, but every。
single time I get something wrong, I think, "I think I know what to do here.。
I think this one goes in here.。
You know what?。
Let's just skip this bit.。
I think we know."。
And then, "Oh, it's okay.。
It's okay.。
It's okay."。
And then suddenly, step 22, you're like, "This doesn't fit as well as it really should.。
Oh, it doesn't fit."。
So I skipped a step.。
And unfortunately, what that means is I have to take everything out and go back and realise。
I have to start again.。
See, the Israelites, they thought they knew better.。
They did as they saw fit.。
They thought it would make sense to keep these people in the land.。
But in fact, what happened there was that ended up leading to their demise.。
Why?。
Because they started marrying their daughters, their sons, keeping the people in there.。
What was the land of Canaan famous for?。
Milk and honey.。
It was a thriving land.。
It was a land full of potential.。
It was a land full of distractions.。
And see, the problem here is as they invited these other people from these different cultures。
to stay, they started to worship these other gods that belonged to these other cultures.。
And that was where the problem began because suddenly, they weren't worshipping God, Yahweh.。
They weren't focusing just on Him.。
They weren't loving Him with all their strength and all their heart and soul and mind.。
That became the problem.。
They had compromised and that led to their demise.。
And I wonder for us, why did God tell them and why does God tell us to only love Him?。
Just me, apart from the fact that He's the only real God.。
But He's saying this, "You can only love Me because I'm the only one that won't corrupt。
you."。
Children, look at me.。
Look at me.。
I'm the only real God here.。
If you look at anything else, if you look at anyone else's God, if you look at any other。
idols, if you chase any other worldly things, they will corrupt you.。
They will consume you.。
So I need you, child, to love me with all my heart because if you don't, then that will。
be the beginning of your demise.。
I think Hong Kong is a very similar place.。
There are so many things that we love.。
Johnny and I are well documented into loving our sneakers.。
And I can be honest with you, that can consume me.。
But I'm actually very over it.。
I haven't bought a pair of shoes for at least two months.。
It's been really good.。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Repent.。
Okay, so.。
God is saying, "Look to Me."。
If you look at anything else, if you compromise even a little bit, it could take you down。
a road.。
Just like a ship, if the bearings are even one degree off, it might feel okay at the。
beginning.。
"Oh, if I just do this little bit, it's a little bit off course.。
It's a little bit different to what God says, but maybe it's so small it's okay.。
Maybe this screw doesn't need to go right here."。
Half an hour later, one day later, one week later, you're in a very different place, my。
friend, because you missed out this little bit, because you compromised right here.。
So the question for us is, as we look at the Israelites and how they compromised, I wonder。
where in our lives we have also compromised.。
What other gods have we taken on and adopted and chased?。
Hong Kong is full of that.。
There's power, there's finances, control, there's career.。
There's all these things that you can chase.。
I was having a conversation with someone who was, Hong Kong is ruled by the property market。
and the finance market, right?。
And I met this person who had climbed all the way to the top of the finance market.。
He was right there at the top.。
And he was like, "James, there was nothing there.。
I went right to the very top.。
There was no one.。
There was nothing there."。
And then Tim Keller talks about this.。
The worst thing that God can do to you is give you everything that you want.。
When you make gods of other things, that's the worst thing that God can do to you, just。
give you everything that you want.。
"God, bless me.。
Pray that you let me have this job so I can have this career, this money, this wife, this。
family, this thing."。
And we let that consume us and that is the worst thing that God can do for us because。
we take our eyes off Him.。
And we see this, not just from my friend, but also from Michael Jackson, from Elvis,。
from all these people who are right at the top of their careers, who are the famous,。
rich and famous.。
And yet you see, as soon as they reach the top, they realise nothing is there.。
They realise the emptiness and they have to come back down because at some point, they。
have also lost their way.。
Compromise leads to demise.。
And these people brought their own destruction about.。
They again did evil in the sight of the Lord.。
And what did God do?。
He strengthened the Moabites and He connected the opposing forces and then they oppressed。
Israel for 18 years.。
In some way, they brought about their own destruction.。
It's interesting for me as I read this, don't you think, that God uses enemy empires, ungodly。
ones, to teach His people a thing or two.。
Isn't that weird?。
Isn't that something that maybe we have parallels to here, whichever side you're on?。
It's not really hard to find evil empires in this world right now.。
But can you see that God isn't fazed by ungodly empires?。
God isn't fazed by all these kingdoms.。
He looks above it all.。
In fact, He uses those sometimes to bring us closer to Him.。
That is His objective.。
Not world domination, but soul salvation.。
That is what God is actually looking at and He is willing to use anything and everything.。
Proverbs talks about this.。
God has a purpose for everything.。
Even evil will be used by God for good.。
Any system, any political system, any government, any leader can still be used by God because。
He is that powerful.。
That means that we should trust Him and we should listen to His instructions and follow。
Him, fear Him, because He is the one that is in complete control.。
So what are the things that we have compromised on?。
What are the things that maybe we have followed our own wisdom on?。
That we look at ourselves and go, "I think we've got the right.。
I'm a decent person.。
I'm doing the kind of the right thing.。
I'm following most of the instructions."。
My word of caution in the most loving way is be careful not to compromise.。
Follow all the things that God.。
Love Him with all your heart, soul and mind because compromise leads to demise.。
Number two is this.。
Repentance, though, this is the hopeful part, leads to deliverance.。
And that's where we carry on, verse 15, just one verse here.。
"Then the people of Israel cried out to the Lord, and the Lord raised up for them a deliverer,。
Ehud, the son of Jera, the Benjaminite, a left-handed man."。
So we see here that it's never too late.。
Even though there's these constant cycles, it is never too late that God is still merciful.。
His mercies are new every single day.。
That it is never too late to turn about.。
One of my favourite worship songs growing up was called "From the Inside Out."。
A thousand times I failed, yet still your mercy remains.。
It tells me that it is never, ever too late.。
We can turn from our old ways and God will be there for us every time.。
That is encouraging to me.。
I don't know if it's encouraging to you.。
But when we talk about repentance, we have to be truly serious and we truly have to mean。
repentance.。
What is repentance?。
You do something bad, which we all do, probably on a daily basis.。
Repentance isn't feeling guilty about it.。
"Oh, that was, you know what, good people, good Christians shouldn't do that.。
I just feel so guilty."。
That isn't really repentance.。
Repentance also isn't shame.。
It isn't, "Oh gosh, I did this.。
What are the other people going to think?。
Gosh, they're going to look down on me."。
It's not that either.。
It's also not fear.。
"Oh my goodness, I did something bad.。
What is God going to do?。
He's going to punish me.。
My parents are going to punish me.。
My parents are going to kick me out."。
It's not that either.。
Repentance at its very core is us knowing that we've been heading in the wrong direction。
and turning around and choosing to follow God.。
You see, there are very many different types of repentance and even selfish ones where。
we repent because we are afraid of what might happen to us.。
So we repent not because we truly mean it, not because we truly want to love and follow。
God, but we repent because if we don't do this, it will lead to our demise.。
There is a selfish level of repentance as well.。
And that is what we, just like the psalmist in 139 says, "We have to ask God to search。
our hearts.。
Even my repentance, God, can you purify it?。
I want my repentance to be real and true.。
I want to genuinely turn from my old ways."。
And a part of that is deconstructing the things that we've done, removing the things that。
we've done, deconstructing the things that we've done, and then we get to the point where。
we can truly repent.。
And when we truly repent, then we get delivered.。
And you see, you can do that.。
You're like, "That's all well and good.。
I've repented before.。
But just like the Israelites, I keep going through these cycles."。
You see, repentance isn't a one-time thing.。
Martin Luther, the theologian, says, "The life of a Christian is one of repentance."。
C.S. Lewis would call repentance "dying to yourself," and that's very biblical, where。
Jesus says, "You have to die to yourself, take up your cross, and follow him."。
Repentance, brother and sister, is a daily activity.。
When was the last time you repented, genuinely, from your heart?。
See that is key here, because we have to make that decision every single day.。
We have to choose to follow the Spirit of God every single day in order for us to be。
delivered every single day.。
You see, if we don't have the Spirit of God inside us, then we won't have freedom.。
We won't be delivered.。
So therefore, we have to choose to follow him every day.。
We have to consciously choose to repent.。
And where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.。
It is up to us to choose that.。
It is up to us to repent.。
So in order to get out of the cycle, the evil cycles, we have to make a daily choice to。
repent.。
Repentance leads to deliverance.。
The third point is this, preparation that leads to action.。
This is where I have to read a little bit more.。
Verse 15 to 23, this is where the action happens.。
Some of it is quite gruesome, but we're going to try and read it anyway.。
15 to 23, "Then the people of Israel cried out to the Lord, and the Lord raised up for。
them a deliverer, Ehud, the son of Jireh, the Benjaminite, a left-handed man.。
The people of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon, the king of Moab.。
And Ehud made for himself a sword with two edges, a cubit in length, about a foot, and。
he bound it on his right thigh under his clothes.。
And he presented the tribute to Eglon, the king of Moab."。
Now Eglon was a very fat man, useful detail.。
"And when Ehud had finished presenting the tribute, he sent away the people who carried。
the tribute.。
And he himself turned back at the idols near Gilgal and said, 'I have a secret message。
for you, O king.'。
And he commanded silence.。
And all his attendants went out from his presence.。
And Ehud came to him as he was sitting alone in his cool roof chamber.。
And Ehud said, 'I have a message from God for you.'。
And he arose from his seat.。
And Ehud reached with his left hand, took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust。
it into his belly.。
And the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade, for he。
did not pull the sword out of his belly, and the dung came out.。
Then Ehud went out into the porch and closed the doors of the roof chamber behind him and。
locked them."。
You can see why Judges isn't one of my favourite books.。
That's pretty disgusting.。
So he stabs him, kills him, leaves the knife there, probably tears a sphincter muscle somewhere.。
Eglon loses control and it gets smelly.。
And then he escapes.。
It's an interesting one.。
Let's start right from the beginning again.。
Let's try and get out that last image on our heads.。
Then the people cried out and raised up Ehud.。
A left-handed man.。
A left-handed man.。
Who's left-handed here?。
I've exposed myself.。
I'm right-handed.。
Left-handed?。
Not many.。
Apparently, you guys are very special.。
My wife is also a left-handed person.。
Apparently, left-handed people are always right.。
Apparently, 10% of the population are left-handed.。
But apparently, left-handed people have a lot of advantages, especially in sports.。
Actually, we all come from a culture where we favour the right hand.。
Is there anyone here who was born left-handed but was forced by Chinese parents to become。
right-handed?。
Yes, yes, there are people.。
Hands going up everywhere.。
No, so yes, it is a thing.。
So, left-handed people are alternative, let's say.。
They are unique.。
They are different.。
In fact, as a science teacher, I can tell you that the left-handed people will use the。
right side of their brain more, and that's the side for creativity.。
So, left-handed people are often a bit more creative.。
Rafael Nadal, the tennis player, was actually a right-handed.。
Well, he still is a right-handed, but he chose to learn how to play tennis with his left。
hand just to gain an advantage.。
Basketball, Paulo Gasol was a left-handed player.。
Everyone is used to each other being right-handed, so therefore, when you meet someone who is。
left-handed, it is different.。
In the world of sports, it just becomes much harder to deal with because suddenly, something。
is going on.。
Why is this person going this way and shooting this way?。
Suddenly, there is an advantage.。
Now, scholars here will look at this, and some scholars have said, actually, what the。
word means here is that he was restricted in his right hand.。
Maybe he was disabled.。
But actually, that is one theory.。
But actually, if you go into Judges 20, you see that the Benjaminites, as a tribe, were。
famous for being left-handed, and they were actually very skilled warriors.。
So this was very interesting because normally, he must have been checked, just like we get。
thermometer checked going into Hong Kong Day Cafe right now.。
But they get checked when they go in to meet the presence of the king.。
And often, everyone is right-handed, so the sword would be held in the left thigh.。
But yet, with Ehud, he is a lefty.。
So therefore, he managed to hide it here, and he managed to get through the system.。
And then, what we see here is then, he is prepared.。
He prepares for himself a sword, a double-edged sword, a dagger that he gets to hide in his。
right thigh.。
And then, he goes, and when opposing kings ruled over Israel, they always demanded tributes。
to confirm that you are still being loyal, that you are still being oppressed by them.。
So every year, the Israelites would send someone to give them a tribute.。
And Ehud had done his homework.。
In fact, he gave such a big tribute, he had to bring helpers along with him to help him。
carry it.。
And he must have given them a very compelling tribute that was believable.。
And then, he says, I have a special message for you, King Ehud.。
And of course, his tribute must have been so compelling that that completely disarmed。
this very fat king.。
And then, he gets to be in the secret chamber where he delivers, from his preparation, into。
action and execution.。
Now, we look at this story, and I'm not trying to condone or even admire Ehud's plot to murder。
this fat man.。
This is not an instruction manual on how to kill fat kings.。
But rather, what we see here is that Ehud was someone who was prepared.。
He was prepared, he knew what he was doing, and he was willing.。
When we were looking through the book of Esther, I'd said that God uses imperfect people to。
carry out his perfect plan.。
Here, what we see is, we don't know much more about Ehud, is that God is willing to use。
people who are willing.。
God is willing to use people who are willing.。
And we see in the book of Judges that these people, these judges are not perfect people.。
And they do things that are really not that pleasing.。
Yet, what we see here, and to bring about his will, is that God is willing to use people。
who are willing.。
My question to us is, how willing are we?。
How prepared are we to follow God's will, to serve God?。
And God often asks you to make your own tools.。
Ehud here had to make his own sword.。
He had to be prepared.。
Now, thankfully, I don't think God's going to be asking any of us here to be killing。
any kings anytime soon.。
But what we do see in Scripture is that our battle is not against flesh and blood.。
Our battle is against rulers and authorities that are beyond this world.。
And Ephesians 6 goes on to tell us how we have to be prepared.。
In order to be able to face up to the action, we have to be prepared.。
We have to take on the whole armour of God.。
And what's our sword?。
What's our double-edged sword?。
The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God.。
That's what Ephesians 6 says, right?。
The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God.。
So my question really becomes, how prepared are you?。
It really is asking, how much do you know the Word of God?。
We are in battle right now.。
Darkness is surrounding this world.。
I don't think it takes me needing to tell you that for you to know that.。
You can watch Fox News and you'll be able to see that.。
We are in battle.。
How armed are you?。
How prepared are you with the Word?。
Now, we hear this all the time, and sometimes I've said it.。
I'm not really a Bible kind of person.。
I don't really know the Word of God that well.。
I don't know where to quote scriptures.。
Maybe that is you.。
Now, I'm not asking you to remember exactly where scriptures are coming from.。
But this is the instruction manual that God passed down to us.。
This is it.。
We're all asking, what do we do in this world right now?。
Surrounded by all this darkness.。
What do we do?。
What do we do?。
How can we live?。
It is here.。
We have to take on the whole armour of God.。
We have to hold up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God.。
How well do you know this Word?。
Now, I know it's hard.。
As I've just shared with you, judges, it's hard to read.。
But there are other parts that are a little bit easier to start with.。
But we believe that this whole book carries power.。
And if there is going to be hope in this world, it will be because there are believers,。
brothers and sisters, you and me, who are so in tune with this Word,。
that we know what to do from here.。
We know what Jesus would do.。
Those of us who have found what would Jesus do, we know because we can read it.。
Because we can see it.。
We need to spend time with God.。
We need to be prepared in the Word of God.。
In order to, whenever he calls us to action, we will not only just be willing,。
but we will be able, just like Ahud.。
Preparation leads to action.。
And finally, humility that leads to victory.。
Verse 26 to 30.。
Ahud escaped while they delayed.。
So, he kills him.。
He closes the door because it was just the two of them.。
He sneaks away.。
The king's guards, they wanted to respect the privacy, so they don't find out for a while.。
Gives Ahud time to escape and leave.。
And verse 26, Ahud escapes while they delayed.。
And he passed beyond the idols and escaped to Sira.。
When he arrived, he sounded the trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim.。
When the people of Israel went down with him from the hill country, and he was their leader.。
And he said to them, key sentence here.。
And he said to them, "Follow after me, for the Lord has given your enemies the Moabites into your hand."。
So, they went down after him and seized the forts of the Jordan against the Moabites。
and did not allow anyone to pass over.。
Finally, no compromise.。
Verse 29, "And they killed at that time about 10,000 of the Moabites, all strong, able-bodied men.。
Not a man escaped.。
So, Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel, and the land had rest for 80 years."。
Because of Ahud's preparation and action, he saved them from 18 years of oppression。
and the land was peaceful for 80 years, until the next cycle.。
But what we see here, that is very interesting, is even though Ahud was key to this plan,。
he prepared, he made his own equipment, he acted it out smoothly, effectively.。
When he goes back and he calls the rest of the guys, "Hey, it's time."。
What does he say?。
Did he say, "Hey, I did it.。
It was me. I managed to do it all. I'm going to rescue you."。
He didn't.。
He said, "Follow me, for the Lord has given your enemies into your hand."。
He still attributed it to God.。
So, even though he did all the work, you could say, and he prepared himself,。
he still called the rest of the people and said, "Follow me, for God has rescued you.。
God has delivered you."。
That is the humility that leads to victory.。
That where he knew that he did everything that was possible on earth,。
he could have only done it because the Spirit of God was with him.。
That was the humility that led to the victory.。
So, we see here, God is willing to use willing people.。
We see the story of Judges is all about the cycle that we have of the Israelites being fickle and forgetting.。
But we also see God's mercies being you and granting a way out, a deliverer.。
But really, the story of Judges is not really about the Judges at all.。
In fact, the story of the Bible is not really about all the different characters in the Bible at all.。
The story of the Bible or the history of mankind, you could say, is the story of God.。
History is his story.。
This isn't about us.。
This isn't about Ehud.。
This isn't about Ehud being a hero.。
This is about God's heart and love for the people.。
He's demanding that we love him with all our heart, soul and might because he first loved us.。
This is, his story is his love story to us.。
And we see that with the final one, because the title of this topic talk is。
"Two Unlikely Heroes", but I've only really spoken about Ehud.。
And verse 31 is where I want to share with you the final one.。
Poor guy gets to share a chapter with Ehud, but he gets one verse.。
And after him was Shamgar, the son of Anath, who killed 600 of the Philistines with an ox goad,。
which is like a metre long spear that farmers would use to guide the oxen.。
And he also saved Israel.。
Alright, that's it.。
This other guy gets like 20 something verses and I get one.。
But that's the thing.。
Judges isn't about the judges.。
Judges is about God.。
And what we see here is God is willing to use people who are willing.。
And so what we see here is Shamgar who had an ox goad, so he was a farmer.。
And so there must have been some kind of battle that he had to be faced with,。
completely unprepared because he was on his own.。
And he was probably just minding his own business, working on his farm.。
And the Philistines come and he kills 600 of them with whatever was in his hand at the time.。
God is willing to use whoever is willing and he will equip you with whatever you have right now。
and that will be enough.。
And his grace will be sufficient and his power is made perfect in weakness.。
Are you willing?。
Are you willing to completely be faithful in whatever God has called you to?。
Here Shamgar was on his farm.。
Ehud was raised up to be a deliverer, but where are you placed?。
Just like the book of Esther, where has God placed you?。
And what has he given you?。
What can you grab right now if battle was to ensue?。
God will use you if you are willing.。
He will.。
We have to be willing, we have to be humble and we have to be prepared.。
And if we're willing to do that, then we can play a part in this story.。
Maybe we will get one verse.。
If you got one verse in the Bible about you, what would it say?。
If you were lucky enough for God to include you in the Bible for one verse,。
what would it say about you, Julian, Gabriel, Rachel?。
What would that verse be describing what you did?。
But not really what you did, but what God did through you.。
Because what we see here is that God used Shamgar in whatever capacity that he was used to,。
in whatever arena he was in, and that was enough.。
Because the story of judges isn't about the judges, the book of the Bible isn't about us,。
it is about the one who did come to save us once and for all.。
Now, because of him, there is no need for any other judges.。
One guy came 2,000 years ago and he became our judge and our advocate.。
He was completely prepared. He was completely prepared to do what he had to do.。
He himself had a double-edged sword.。
And he executed it perfectly, one side sacrificing himself and the other side sacrificing the enemy.。
And he managed to sneak in this weapon. He managed to defeat death through death itself.。
The book of the Bible, our lives are all about this one guy.。
This one guy who was willing to humble himself, and it was when he humbled himself,。
when he didn't count equality with God as something to be grasped,。
and came down to earth, snuck in this weapon and defeated death.。
And then, because of that humility, leads us all into victory forever,。
so that there is no more need for any cycles anymore.。
Do you believe that you are eternally freed from the cycles that you are facing right now?。
Those things that you have going on in your mind, those fears, those anxieties, those sins,。
do you believe, brethren and sisters, that they are simply you walking through the valley of the shadow of death?。
They are shadows.。
You have the Spirit of the Lord in you and therefore you are free.。
Because of who? Jesus.。
Because Jesus was the one who came to save us, to judge us as well, but also become our advocate.。
And that's the story of Ehud and Shamgar.。
And just to summarise, it was the compromise that led to their demise.。
It was repentance that ultimately led to their deliverance.。
It was their preparation that led to action.。
And finally, it was their humility that led to the victory.。
So what are we to do here?。
We are also to not compromise.。
Not compromise and follow God and follow Jesus and love Him alone.。
We choose to repent every single day of our lives, every single day, to follow Him.。
And be prepared, be armed with the sword of the Spirit, be armed with the Word of God as we face the battles that we have.。
And also remember that it is not about us.。
To humble ourselves before the One who did give it all.。
And it's by His blood that we are saved.。
The final, ultimate judge that became our advocate.。
Brothers and sisters, be encouraged that you may feel as though you are one of the characters in the book of Judges that has these constant cycles.。
But Jesus has come to save you.。
And now He's asking you to follow Him.。
Shall we pray?。
Father in heaven, we come before you and we know that we only really know you because of your Son.。
For Jesus, for what He did for us.。
So we humble ourselves before you and first of all we ask for your forgiveness.。
And we repent that you've given us this instruction manual, yet we have time and time again compromised, taken it for granted.。
And we wonder why when we are faced with chaos and pain, we're not really sure what to do.。
And so Lord I pray that you will grant us the heart to yearn, to read your Word, to know you more, to be in tune with your Spirit.。
So that we can take up your whole armour and fight this battle.。
And Lord we know that you only use willing people.。
And so I pray that even in this room right now that you are raising up willing people with whatever tools you have given them.。
And Lord we humble ourselves before you and we are grateful that the victory is already won.。
That even when we are surrounded by darkness, when we see no way out, Lord we know that you are with us.。
That this valley that we're in is merely just a valley that we are passing through.。
That there is no foreign force that can control us.。
There is no worldly thing that can oppress us and consume us and corrupt us.。
So long as we remember that you alone are God and that we love you with all our heart, soul and mind.。
And so Lord help us do just that.。
And Lord may we stand with joy in our hearts.。
That the battle is yours.。
And the victory is yours.。
And that you've shared it with us.。
We thank you God that you keep your promises, that you are ever faithful.。
That even when we see no way, you make a way.。
Thank you.。
