Welcome to Explorer. Today we are going to think about God's Word.。
This week is the third sermon of Becoming the Winner of Life Series.。
In the last two weeks, Pastor Irene has talked about how to define success.。
Pastor Johnny has also talked about how to pay for success.。
We can learn a lot from Pastor Johnny's teaching.。
We often talk about success, becoming the winner.。
We often see success in the spiritual aspect,。
which is the relationship between us and God.。
Success in life, education, etc. may not be in conflict with us.。
But in a realistic situation, we need to make choices.。
For example, when we see a pandemic,。
we may have to cancel the church service.。
These are the times when we have to make choices in life.。
What do we need to pay attention to when making choices?。
We may have a lot of considerations.。
Is there any resource in the Bible that can help us make decisions?。
Let's look at the 30 chapters of the Bible.。
Let's think about how to make choices.。
The Bible is very important to the Israelites.。
The Bible has a lot of principles of faith.。
It explains how the Israelites have fallen in history.。
The arrival of the Israelites in Galilee was a big moment.。
They ended their many years of exile and officially entered God's business.。
If we remember the books of Ezekiel and Nehemiah,。
there are many laws and rules written by God to the Israelites.。
These rules and rules may be unfamiliar to us in our society.。
If we break these rules, we will be punished.。
The Bible has more than 30 chapters.。
The Bible is located at the last part of the Bible.。
It is the last part of the Bible.。
In the previous part, Moses has given a lot of instructions on how to follow the law.。
Today, we are going to look at the last part of Moses' instruction on the Israelites.。
We said that we may follow the law in our society.。
If we break these rules, we will be punished.。
But does God look at us like this?。
Are we really afraid of God's punishment because we make life decisions?。
What I want to tell you today is that we make life decisions。
not because we are afraid of making mistakes.。
We are not afraid of failure.。
It is because we love God and we are willing to choose what God expects us to choose.。
We make life decisions.。
The first point I want to talk about is the foundation of choice.。
The foundation of choice is that we are willing to love God and our relationship with God.。
In the Bible, chapter 30, verses 15-16, it says,。
"And the Lord said to Hannah, 'Today I have written the new testament before you,。
and I have commanded you to love Jehovah your God, to follow his way,。
to follow his commandments, laws, and commandments,。
so that you may be able to live forever and have many people.。
Jehovah your God, may all your works be fulfilled, and may your blessings be upon the earth as it is in heaven.'"。
This is the conclusion of Moses to the Israelites.。
It is worth noting that the first sentence in the Bible is not a punishment to warn or warn the Israelites.。
In today's society, if we make a mistake, we have to bear the consequences.。
For example, if we litter, we have to pay a fine of $1,500.。
Some laws are not very suspicious.。
For example, have you ever tried to drink water on the subway?。
It turns out that drinking water on the subway is not allowed.。
Drinking water is against the regulations of Hong Kong Railways.。
It turns out that drinking water on the subway is against one of the regulations of Hong Kong Railways.。
This regulation says that after entering the train station,。
you cannot eat or try to eat any food, drink or try to drink any drink,。
whether it is alcoholic or non-alcoholic.。
It sounds like a long reading.。
Of course, water is also included in this regulation.。
So if someone has tried to drink water on the subway,。
it is against the regulations.。
If we do it, we will be found out and we have to pay a fine of $2,000.。
These are some of the regulations in society.。
I mentioned some of the strange regulations in the last month's lecture.。
In a nutshell, when we look at some of the regulations in the Bible,。
the writing is a bit similar.。
For example, I will give you the simplest example.。
In the 22nd chapter of the Bible, chapter 6-7, it says,。
"If you meet a birdcage on the way, or on a tree, or on the ground,。
or on the water, or on a tree, or on a tree,。
or on a tree, or on a tree, or on a tree,。
you cannot take it with you,。
but you can take it with you,。
so that you can be happy and live a long life."。
It turns out that many laws in the Bible are very detailed.。
As we just saw, whether it is garbage, or even the Hong Kong Railway Act,。
these are all very detailed parts.。
Even the birds can go to Hong Kong.。
In the Bible, there are 613 laws in the 5 books,。
the Genesis, the Egyptian, the Leviticus, the Gospels, and the Gospels.。
You may say, "Wow, so many laws.。
Isn't it easy to be misled and fall into the wrong path,。
and then be punished by God?"。
But as I mentioned earlier,。
the core of the Bible is not just about being punished for breaking the law.。
Today, the law of our society often scares us。
by punishing us,。
by telling us not to do wrong things.。
But in life, we have to make a successful decision,。
not just because we are afraid of the consequences.。
For the Israelites, the most important reason for following the law is not to avoid punishment,。
but because they are willing to love Jehovah,。
and they are willing to choose the right way to express their love and loyalty to God.。
The key to success for the Israelites is not relying on their military,。
political, economic, or their own ability,。
but to follow the law of Jehovah.。
And it is in the law that God finds their heart.。
So in the Bible, the Israelites choose to follow God,。
to follow the law,。
not to be punished, not to be fined, not to be imprisoned,。
not to be killed by God,。
but because they are willing to cherish the relationship with God.。
In fact, we read some of the scriptures in the 30th chapter of the Bible,。
chapter 9-10, God is very sure that。
when the Israelites are willing to love God,。
God will make all the things in their hands,。
all the things they have created, all the things they have done,。
all the things they have done,。
all the things they have done,。
all the things they have done,。
God knows.。
God wants us to make choices,。
not only the relationship,。
but also to experience it in our lives.。
For example,。
maybe you are listening to this sermon today,。
or you are a student who has just finished the DSC exam,。
or you are preparing to study hard for the DSC,。
or you are going to study,。
actually, the most important thing for us is to study.。
In last month's "HK Road",。
I mentioned a Singaporean church。
who have high requirements for their students' studies,。
and they will use the awards to encourage them to study hard.。
Are there any successful examples?。
Here are some of the users' personal experiences.。
Let's watch the video.。
One of the academic excellence services,。
I learned it's more important to ask the right question。
than to find the right answers.。
I realized that I had to take ownership of my learning.。
So in class, I start asking my teacher questions.。
I began to understand the content better.。
I also learned to communicate my thoughts more clearly.。
It also helped that I could depend on God.。
Every time I studied,。
I prayed to God for wisdom and understanding.。
Whenever I was stressed,。
God gave me the peace to focus and stay motivated.。
As I changed my study habits and my mindset towards studying,。
my results improved greatly.。
For all the four semesters in IT,。
I scored a perfect GPA of 4 out of 4.。
I graduated with two awards as a top student of my course.。
Out of the entire IT core of 25,000 students,。
I was one out of 15 who were awarded the Lee Kuan Yew Scholarship.。
This award recognizes students with outstanding academic。
and co-curricular achievements.。
This gave me a full scholarship to pursue a diploma in polytechnic.。
There, I continued to do well and graduated with a GPA of 3.65 out of 4.。
This result meant that I was eligible for all the top universities in Singapore.。
I was so happy to secure a place in Nanyang Technological University。
to study engineering.。
Through the Academy Excellence Program,。
I was also inspired to look beyond myself and to think for others.。
During my first year in university,。
I heard about the Interfaith Tuition Program。
organized by Heart of God Church and Khaled Moss.。
Tutors from both the church and the Moss provided free tuition。
for the secondary school students taking their major exams.。
It was the perfect opportunity to help others.。
So, I volunteered myself to be a tutor.。
It touched my heart to be able to guide the students in their studies.。
In church, I mentored a group of 20 young people.。
Some of them struggled in their confidence like how I used to.。
I felt so much for them.。
I knew their lives could be changed too, just as how God changed mine.。
Throughout my time in university,。
my grades improved with each semester.。
After three years, I graduated with a Bachelor of Engineering with Honours.。
Never would I have imagined a boy like me to get a university degree.。
In fact, I was the first in my family to graduate from a university.。
My family was so proud.。
Initially, I thought getting a job would be difficult.。
I would have been happy to receive any job offer.。
But even before I graduated, miraculously I received paid job offers.。
After graduation, I chose to work as a management associate in a multinational company.。
Looking back, the principles I've learned through the Academy Excellence Programme。
have changed the way I approach my studies and in fact, my entire life.。
I've come so far from the lazy boy who was never interested in studying.。
From EM3 to IT to Polytechnic to university.。
And now, as a young working adult, God has been with me every step of the way.。
I'm so grateful to God for Heart of God Church and its Academy Excellence Programme.。
If we watch this video, we might feel that。
the so-called success of life, not only in the name of the Holy Spirit,。
can also affect what happens in our daily lives.。
As the Bible says, when we love God and are willing to make His will,。
this real success is not just a success in the name of the Holy Spirit,。
but it can also be reflected in our daily lives.。
When we make our life decisions based on the motivation of loving God,。
what we get can go far beyond our expectations.。
This is different from the way we follow the law,。
or the way we follow the law in society, or the way we follow the law in school.。
The motivation is different.。
In society, we are often afraid of being arrested by the police,。
or even afraid of being jailed.。
But God does not use this method to control the Israelis.。
When He explains these provisions,。
even though the Israelis are arrested, they still have to use other methods to pay the price.。
But God still hopes that the Israelis can live a truly blessed life.。
The core motivation of the Israeli Law of Protection is their willingness to love God.。
If we love God as the basis of our choices,。
what are the principles of our choices?。
Of course, there are a lot of different choices in life.。
For example, today, after you wake up or after you listen to this sermon,。
do you want to eat? Where do you want to go?。
Of course, during this time of the epidemic, we may not go out often,。
but we may think about what we want to eat, and whether we want to meet our friends.。
These may be small decisions.。
And maybe when someone in the middle of the day wants to choose what major to study in university,。
these decisions are very different.。
It may seem to affect your life decisions.。
Of course, today, our sermon is mainly about some major decisions,。
that is, decisions about the direction of life.。
Everyone has a different situation,。
that is, there are many factors to consider.。
But today I just want to tell you about a big principle,。
which is to choose what is best for your life.。
Or, in the words of the Bible, "choose your life".。
In the 30th chapter of the Bible, verses 19-20, it says,。
"Today I am calling upon the heavens and the earth to witness to you,。
that I will bring forth the new life and the blessed life before you.。
So you must choose your life,。
so that you and your descendants may live forever.。
And I will call upon your God, and if you listen to him,。
you will be in his care, for he is your life,。
and your days will be long, depending on him."。
As we mentioned, the basis for our choice is to love our God,。
and to be willing to glorify Him.。
Often we will get more than we think.。
But we also understand that in reality,。
when we follow the command of God to make a choice,。
there is a chance of loss.。
For example, two years ago, I was serving a group of college students at the Sun Yat-sen factory.。
One of the students, a sophomore,。
was studying engineering at the university.。
He mentioned that he wanted to go to the university to do a postgraduate study.。
I think he was a good student,。
so he might not have been suspected of having a cat.。
In fact, in the Sun Yat-sen factory,。
students are used to having a cat when they are studying.。
Of course, as we all know,。
the exam is normally submitted by the teacher during the exam,。
and the student is not allowed to have a cat.。
But this sophomore, who was studying engineering in the second year,。
encountered a problem.。
The teacher would tell the student the exam questions in advance.。
After the exam, the student could cheat.。
In other words, the teacher would not care if the student took out a book and copied the answer.。
Why did he do that?。
Because in this university,。
the teacher's ranking and grades。
depend on the students' grades in the exam.。
So the teacher could let the student cheat,。
or even tell the student the question,。
which could improve the student's performance。
or the evaluation.。
The cat student was not a problem.。
Because the teacher could get a good grade,。
and the student could get a good grade.。
So the student could get a good grade.。
Of course, everyone understands that。
this is unacceptable for the Christian.。
So for this sophomore,。
he faced a big challenge.。
He could get 100 points if he had a cat with the student.。
He would not be very optimistic.。
If he didn't have a cat,。
and he just studied,。
his grades would be low.。
The students would laugh at him,。
or ask him why he was so stupid.。
How did he make this decision?。
I don't know if you think it's just a test.。
Just a test.。
Just let it go.。
At most, he could pray to God to forgive him.。
But I think in the Bible,。
we make decisions in our life.。
Not all decisions are perfect.。
We just learned that。
there are many successful testimonies。
in the Singapore church。
that God is unyielding.。
But sometimes, in the real world,。
God is likely to have a big loss,。
or be laughed at.。
If we look at the part of the Bible。
where Moses is mentioned,。
in the 19th to 20th verses,。
he tells the Israelites that。
God has given him a new life,。
and he will die for them.。
Moses did not say that。
you have to choose a life。
that is pure and pure.。
He said that you have to choose your life,。
so that you and your descendants。
can be saved.。
The choice of life is not just about。
the good of the material world,。
or the success of your life.。
It is also about whether the Israelites。
can use God's blessings。
to choose a meaningful life.。
At that time, many foreigners in Ghana。
were happy when they worshiped God,。
or when they let their desires go.。
But they were still restricted by many restrictions,。
whether it was material,。
or religious indulgence,。
or moral corruption,。
or social chaos.。
God hopes that the Israelites choose their lives。
so that they will not fall into the trap of others,。
but so that our lives have true freedom,。
and meaningful lives.。
The brother mentioned earlier,。
how did he decide?。
He did not show his cat.。
He did not look at the questions.。
The teacher would send an email。
to say that he would give the questions.。
But he did not look at the questions.。
You may think that。
he got full marks.。
History is not always perfect.。
The whole class got 90+ marks.。
The brother only got 60+ marks.。
But when he shared this testimony。
with other brothers in the group,。
he said directly,。
"I am suffering for Christ."。
"When my classmates asked me why I was so stupid,。
I told them I was a Christian,。
and I did not want to show my cat."。
The brother was in a society。
that was based on atheism,。
and even against the Church.。
Many people wanted to be in the church,。
but they were not as good as the church.。
They wanted to make quick money.。
They did not care about morality.。
The brother had a small choice.。
Of course, his grades were important to him.。
He could have followed others,。
but he chose to stick to his values.。
He chose to live a life。
that God wanted him to live.。
He did not care about the price.。
I do not know what you are going to face today.。
Maybe some of you will have to。
choose your major.。
But I want to tell you。
that God is watching over us.。
It is not about what we choose.。
It is not about whether we are successful or not.。
God wants us to love Him.。
He wants us to choose the most meaningful decision.。
Our mentors, pastors,。
and friends can give us advice。
and help us choose the best decision.。
But the final decision is yours.。
When we talk about the winner of life,。
we hope to be successful in life.。
But the relationship between us and God is more important.。
The true winner is defined by God's expectation。
and love for us.。
What do you think of God's love for you?。
Do you think that following the law。
or following the Bible is a difficult thing?。
But what do you think is the most important thing in your life?。
How do you want to get it?。
The most basic question is。
that we are Christians and we believe in Jesus.。
Does believing in Jesus bring us a change。
in our life and our decisions?。
But we can also make a meaningful decision。
in our life.。
Let's pray together.。
God of mercy,。
thank you for letting us understand and learn the law.。
You remind us that success is the relationship between us。
and the life we live.。
Lord Jesus,。
thank you for blessing us today.。
We are in a pandemic,。
but you are healthy.。
We are healthy and wise.。
We pray for our students who are waiting for the exam.。
We pray for them to have a peaceful life.。
Lord, bless us to experience more in our life.。
Thank you for listening to our prayer.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
