Good evening, everyone.。
Hope you guys are staying safe and you guys are doing well.。
We're continuing our series called Mark My Word, Mark My Word.。
And last week, Pastor John gave us an excellent introduction onto this book and really taught。
us about Mark himself and also how we should be prioritizing the voice of God over other。
people.。
And so today, the word that we have chosen today is burst.。
And so when you think of this word burst, I want you to type in the chat, what is the。
first thing that comes to mind when you hear the word burst?。
What is the first thing?。
Type in the chat.。
It's going to be an interactive bubbles.。
Okay, you want to blow some bubbles, balloons, energy?。
Yeah, burst candies.。
Oh, okay.。
What is burst candies?。
Okay, anger.。
Okay.。
Agnes has experienced some bursts of anger.。
Okay.。
So these are some really good ones.。
Surprise is a good one.。
Here is what comes to mind when I hear of burst.。
You can see in the next slide, the first thing I think of is, well, do you know, have you。
guys watched Seinfeld?。
One of the best comedies of all time.。
It's Kramer, right?。
He just bursts through the door and just, he just sort of bangs into the door and burst。
it open at the same time.。
It's amazing.。
One of the candies I really liked was Gushers.。
They advertised it as when you ate it, the fruit juices within sort of burst it out.。
You see the sort of water, sort of the bursting of colors in their packaging.。
It sort of bursts out.。
And then I don't know if you had a xiao long bao recently, but sometimes the xiao long。
bao, it just bursts, right?。
The greatest thing about the xiao long bao is that it keeps the moisture, the juicy,。
whatever pork dumpling juices inside, and then you eat it and it sort of bursts in your。
mouth.。
And so we're talking about bursts today.。
Jesus grew up and he sort of been quiet during his childhood.。
And then it is during the 30th year of his life that he sort of bursts into scene.。
He starts his ministry at the age of 30.。
And so we're going to see some video clip from the One Series today on Jesus and how。
he burst onto the scene and started his ministry.。
And so enjoy the video for the next couple of minutes.。
After John was put in prison, Jesus went into Galilee, proclaiming the good news of God.。
"The time has come," he said.。
"The kingdom of God has come near.。
Repent and believe the good news."。
As Jesus walked beside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and his brother Andrew casting。
a net into the lake, where they were fishing.。
"Come, follow me," Jesus said, "and I will send you out to fish for people."。
At once they left their nets and followed him.。
When he had gone a little farther, he saw James, son of Zebedee, and his brother John。
in a boat, preparing their nets.。
Without delay he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the。
hired men and followed him.。
They went to Capernaum, and when the Sabbath came, Jesus went into the synagogue and began。
to teach.。
The people were amazed at his teaching, because he taught them as one who had authority, not。
as the teachers of the Lord.。
Just then a man in their synagogue, who was possessed by an impure spirit, cried out,。
"What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth?。
Have you come to destroy us?。
I know who you are, the Holy One of God."。
"Be quiet," said Jesus sternly.。
"Come out of him."。
The impure spirit shook the man violently and came out of him with a shriek.。
The people were all so amazed that they asked each other, "What is this?。
A new teaching?。
And with authority?。
He even gives orders to impure spirits, and they obey him."。
News about him spread quickly over the whole region of Galilee.。
All right, that was an excellent clip, and I hope you've been enjoying the One series。
and following it as we come alongside Lent.。
And so we're going to look at four aspects of how Jesus burst into the scene and he begun。
his ministry.。
And the first thing we're going to see is he started to call on repentance.。
And the next is calling, calling of the disciples.。
The third is the authority he showed both in the synagogue and with the demon-possessed。
man.。
And lastly, we're going to see how he burst into the scene and started healing people.。
And so the first thing we saw earlier was that Mark said that Jesus went into Galilee。
and proclaimed the good news of the kingdom.。
The time has come.。
The kingdom of God is near.。
And what he told the people was to repent and believe the good news.。
Repent and believe the good news.。
We see that Mark says here that Jesus' main mission was to do what?。
To proclaim the good news of God, right?。
Jesus came to bring a kingdom of love, right?。
Not subjugation.。
He came to bring grace, not just be bound by the law.。
He came in humility, not like a conquering king or a conquering Messiah.。
He was for all the people, not just for the Jews.。
And he was to be received voluntarily, not by force.。
And so the people of Jerusalem and where they were, Galilee, were sort of surprised, right?。
They were like, "Oh, we were expecting a conquering Messiah to help us to overcome the Romans."。
But no, Jesus has come and he's calling people to repentance.。
And he says here, "The time has come."。
The time has come, right?。
And what Jesus means is that there is an opportunity here.。
There is an opportunity.。
And the opportunity is for what?。
That the kingdom of heaven is near.。
And he's not just speaking about heaven, that heaven is far away, but that heaven is actually。
close at hand because Jesus is close at hand.。
And Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and the way we can truly go to God.。
And Jesus calls these people towards two important things.。
The first is repentance and then belief.。
And now we've talked about repentance many times in our sermons before.。
Repentance is I'm walking one way and then now I'm changing to go 180 degrees to walk。
to another.。
Before I was walking in my own way, following my own desires, my own beliefs.。
And now I'm changing 180 degrees to go God's way.。
Another way to see it is going from one place to another, from one place to another.。
So for example, maybe some of my friends from Toronto are asking me, as you can see in the。
next slide, "Come back to Toronto.。
Come visit us in Toronto."。
And so in order for me to go to Toronto, what do I need to do?。
I need to physically leave Hong Kong, which is on the left side here.。
Hong Kong is beautiful, as you can see.。
I need to physically leave Hong Kong in order for me to go to Toronto.。
And that is what Jesus is calling these Jewish people to do.。
He's like, "Come for the kingdom of heaven is near."。
You need to repent.。
You need to leave your current situation, your current situation of selfishness, of。
sin, of your own beliefs and come to another, which is the kingdom of heaven, a place where。
it is a relationship with me and the Father.。
And so the first thing that Jesus calls people to do is to go from one place to another.。
And in order to go to the kingdom of heaven, they must leave their own situation, their。
own place to go towards God.。
And the next thing that Jesus says is not just repent, but to believe.。
And back then, possibly, Jesus is telling them to believe because they only believed。
in their mind, right?。
"Yes, I know that God is there.。
Yes, I know that the law is true.。
Yes, I know that the Messiah will come."。
But they did not truly believe these things in their hearts.。
And many of us might be going through the same thing.。
But yes, we grew up in the church, we know about Jesus, we know about God, we know about。
heaven, but do we truly believe Jesus in our own hearts?。
Do we truly have a relationship with Jesus?。
And so what Jesus is demanding from us here, as we see in the next slide, is a change of。
heart.。
Jesus demands repentance, a change of heart, leaving our selfishness towards godliness,。
leaving our head knowledge to enter into a personal relationship with the Father.。
And so Jesus bursts into the scene and talks about repentance and belief.。
And then in the second video, that second part of the video, we saw, what we saw was。
Jesus coming alongside the disciples, the first disciples, Simon and Andrew.。
And then also he found James and John, his brother, who are mending the nets.。
And he told them to follow him, follow him, right?。
He would make them fishers of men, fishers of men.。
So Jesus is calling them.。
So here's the second discussion question.。
Have you ever, has God ever called you to do something or to change direction?。
You can type in the chat, has God ever called you to do something?。
It might be to go to a new location, to a new job.。
Has God called you to study seminary?。
I know Anthony is with us.。
God has called you to leave your financial situation, to go into seminary.。
I know God has sometimes called some of you to study certain things or to work in certain。
situations.。
Type in the chat, has God ever called you to do something or a change of direction?。
Need a little bit more time to think about this one?。
To move to Hong Kong.。
Okay, very good.。
Yeah, George, you moved from your comforts of UK, your family and moved to Hong Kong.。
Anthony, yeah, you shared in your baptism, you were called to Hong Kong.。
Oh, sorry, no, this is a different Anthony.。
Sorry, this is Anthony Yau.。
Anthony was called from Boston to Hong Kong to KFC.。
Very good.。
A career change by Michelle.。
Very good.。
I think that's Michelle.。
Very good.。
When I was 14 years old, I attended my dad's church and we had something called a summer。
camp and within the church summer camp, there was a dedication night.。
There's three sort of hearts that you could just offer to the Lord.。
The first was the dedication of becoming into a relationship with Jesus Christ.。
The second heart was living for Christ every day, living in our work, in our school life,。
living for Christ.。
The third heart was, would you be willing to offer your life to serve the Lord full。
time?。
And I remember my dad was talking and pleading on behalf of the Lord.。
God has given you everything.。
What is your response?。
God is not saying, are you ready now?。
God is saying, are you willing?。
He will equip you.。
And at the age of 14, I felt the Holy Spirit's calling.。
I was moved to tears.。
I was very emotional.。
I felt God had, Jesus had given up everything for me.。
My response is that I should give up everything for Him.。
And so I walked into the center of the stage and I was like, yes, Lord, I'm willing to。
offer my life to serve you full time, wherever you call me, whether it's to be a missionary,。
whether it's to be a pastor.。
And the rest is history, as they say.。
And so we see here that Jesus burst onto the scene.。
He met these people who were fishermen, right?。
Who's been fishing lately?。
I don't think they can fit.。
I don't think they enclosed the fishing, fishing, fishing.。
Lots of people are fishing nowadays.。
I see that.。
So what did Jesus do?。
Jesus chose ordinary people, fishermen, to do extraordinary things.。
These fishermen, they worked all day, all night.。
It was hard work, hard labor.。
You had to get your hands dirty and your hands were rough, right?。
You're pulling string, pulling rope, pulling up fish, mending the nets, pushing the boats.。
It was tough work.。
And yet Jesus chose these sort of uneducated, ordinary people to do extraordinary things.。
It's interesting here.。
Jesus said, "Follow me and I will make you become fishers of men."。
Jesus understood that there's a process of becoming, and Jesus would help them to become。
fishers of men.。
Jesus equips those, he calls.。
And Jesus is the ultimate fisher of men.。
And it's great how Jesus connected with these fishermen and used the same language to connect。
with them.。
And what did they do?。
They left at once, without delay, right?。
Imagine you're at work, you're doing finance.。
Maybe Gabe is on call doing trading.。
Maybe Yan is doing marketing.。
Maybe Kelly is in the future doing some cop thing.。
And Jesus just calls you, "Are you willing to go?。
I need to make you become fishers of men.。
Are you willing to go?。
Anthony, are you willing to go?。
Gabe, are you willing to leave your trade market stock place?。
Are you willing to go?"。
And we see the fishermen were willing to do that.。
It says they left at once without delay.。
Maybe they just left their fish there.。
Maybe they just left their boats there.。
Jesus called them and they answered.。
And so we see here, the second thing is Jesus demands priority.。
Jesus demands priority.。
When Jesus calls, Jesus demands our priority.。
The first thing we saw was repentance, the calling for repentance.。
And Jesus demands a change of heart, calling us from one place to another.。
And now Jesus calling us to become fishers of men.。
He demands our priority.。
The third thing we saw, the third scene we saw in the clip there was Jesus teaching at。
the synagogues.。
Now, it wasn't uncommon during that time that sort of different teachers would sort of rotate。
and take turns to teach.。
And so Jesus took a turn to teach at the synagogue.。
And it says here that people were amazed at his teaching.。
People were amazed at his teaching because he taught with one who had authority.。
And so I read some commentaries and some of them said, "Oh, back then rabbis didn't really。
preach as if these words were, they were really inspired by these words.。
They sort of just quoted what other rabbis taught."。
And so the people were very amazed here that Jesus taught with one who was, who had authority.。
And so obviously Jesus taught with authority because he is God, right?。
He knows the word of God and he is proclaiming the word of God.。
And next we see the scene with the possessed man, the demon possessed man.。
And so before we do that, let's go on to our next discussion question.。
When was the first time you recognized the authority of someone or a governing system?。
So in your chat, when was the first time maybe you recognized, oh, your dad, you know, put。
his foot down and says, you can't do this.。
Or maybe you went to school and then you got in trouble.。
And so that was the first time you recognized that there was authority.。
Is there, was there a first time that you recognized there was authority or a governing。
system?。
Do you guys know?。
What do you guys think?。
Type in the chat.。
Any ideas?。
Any ideas?。
It's a hard question, right?。
Thinking about what was the first time I recognized authority or me.。
Okay.。
Parking ticket.。
Okay.。
Yeah, absolutely.。
You recognize, oh, this spot doesn't belong to me.。
I can't just park anywhere I want.。
Mom and dad not letting me have candy.。
That's a good one.。
Yeah, absolutely.。
I think it was me getting in trouble, right?。
At school, you know, for the first time.。
Yeah, absolutely.。
When we recognize the authority or governing system of somebody, we sort of get shocked,。
right?。
There's sort of, yeah, teachers, when teachers tell us you, you know, have to do your homework。
or I'm going to talk to your parents.。
At that time, you're like, oh, no, don't talk to my parents.。
I don't want to be in trouble.。
Right?。
That's sort of the first time.。
And so these people who are listening to Jesus at the synagogue, they were like, whoa, who。
is this guy?。
Right?。
Maybe they saw Jesus before, right?。
Because Galilee is not that far from maybe his hometown.。
They say, oh, I know Jesus before, but this is sort of the first time they see him speak。
with authority.。
Right?。
And we see other instances where Jesus went back to his hometown and they were like, who。
is this guy?。
Is this Jesus?。
Isn't this the man we grew up with?。
But now he's speaking with authority.。
Wow.。
And so when we recognize authority in our life, like that teacher, like that parking。
ticket, imagine these people in the synagogue for the first time listening to Jesus and。
he's preaching the word and the word of God hits them in their hearts.。
And they're like, wow.。
There's a grasp.。
The air is thin.。
They take a breath.。
And it's like, wow, who is this guy?。
Who is this guy?。
And then not only that, there's a demon possessed man, right?。
And Jesus speaks with authority and says, be quiet.。
Come out of him.。
Back then they may have had certain Jewish rituals, right?。
To take care of certain demon possessed people.。
They may have locked them up or isolated them, but no, Jesus didn't need to do any of that.。
He simply showed his authority.。
He said, be quiet.。
And the demons did exactly that.。
He said, come out of him.。
And the demons did exactly that.。
And I remember a sermon I did earlier, right?。
That Jesus is greater than the spiritual realm.。
Even demons obey him.。
Even demons obey him.。
He even gives orders to impure spirits and they obey him.。
And so we see the authority of Jesus.。
And lastly, we see the healing of Jesus.。
The last passage we'll read is about the healing of Jesus.。
And the first person he heals is he goes to the house of Simon and Andrew with James and。
John and Simon's mother-in-law was ill with a fever.。
And immediately they told him about her and he came and took her by the hand and lifted。
her up and the fever left her and she began to serve them.。
The first thing we see here is that Jesus meets personally with this woman who had fever.。
Some commentaries say that when people had fever back then, they had sort of another。
ritual that they would sort of go through so that they could heal this fever.。
But Jesus, showing his authority, he just took her by the hand and lifted her up and。
she was without the fever.。
Once again, Jesus shows his authority over the physical realm, over the sicknesses of。
people.。
And not only does Jesus heal personally in a personal context, Jesus goes on to heal。
in a public context.。
He goes, "That evening, all who were sick and oppressed with demons, the whole city。
gathered together at the door," okay, "at the door of this house and he healed many。
who were sick with various diseases and cast out many demons and he would not permit the。
demons to speak because they knew him."。
So not only does Jesus heal personally, but Jesus also healed publicly all sorts of diseases.。
And so once again, we see here in the next slide that there's a healing in the public。
and in the private, all sorts of diseases.。
And Jesus shows control and authority in the physical realm.。
And so through these four aspects, Jesus shows that he is superior, right?。
He bursts in the scene and he shows that he is superior over the law.。
He is the one that has come to fill the law.。
"Repent and come for the kingdom of heaven is near."。
Jesus is superior over our hearts and our desires.。
He is demanding that he be the priority.。
Jesus shows that he is superior over the spiritual realm.。
He speaks to the demons to be quiet and they are quiet.。
He calls them to come out and they come out.。
Jesus shows that he is healing.。
He is superior over the physical realm.。
Jesus is superior.。
And so Jesus demands, as we see in the next slide, Jesus demands respect and obedience。
when he shows his authority, right?。
When we had that parking ticket, when we had that teacher that tells us to do our homework,。
they demand respect and obedience or else there's consequences, right?。
And in healing, Jesus demands physical change, direct physical change.。
And so not only did Jesus burst into the scene 2000 years ago and began his ministry and。
called people to repentance, calling people to become fishers of men, showing his authority。
over the spiritual realm, over his authority in the word of God, healing the hearts of。
people.。
Jesus is also bursting into our hearts, into our lives.。
Jesus demands a change of our hearts.。
Jesus is demanding a change of your heart.。
Jesus is demanding a change of our priority.。
He wants to become first in your life.。
Jesus demands respect and obedience because he is authority.。
He has the authority over the spiritual realm and he shows his authority in the word.。
He demands our respect and our obedience.。
And Jesus demands change.。
He wants to heal us from our own sicknesses and the things that we can't change us.。
That's why he sends the Holy Spirit to sanctify us, to change us when we cannot change ourselves.。
And so here are some questions as we apply the word of God tonight.。
What is Jesus calling you to repent from?。
As we see in the next slide, what is Jesus calling you to repent from?。
To go to Toronto, I must leave Hong Kong.。
In order to follow Jesus, is there something that I need to leave in order to go from one。
place to another?。
And I know that recently in our Christian leadership, there has been people that need。
to come from repentance, to go from one place to another.。
And that has reflected on all of us to look into our own hearts.。
It's so easy when we sin, it's a small thing, but it quickly becomes bigger and bigger。
to the point where we become comfortable with the lies we tell ourselves.。
Oh, it's okay to watch this.。
No, it's not hurting anybody.。
Oh, it's okay to judge people here.。
It's not hurting, as long as the other person doesn't hear it.。
Is Jesus calling us to go from one place to a godly place, to a place where we are selfish。
and sinful, to a godly place, the kingdom of heaven?。
We each need to reflect on our own heart.。
God is calling us to repentance.。
For those who have come for the first time, God is calling you to repentance, to change。
from your selfish desires, to walking your own way, to follow God's way.。
And maybe you're here for the hundredth time.。
God is convicting you and telling you, just like he told the Jewish people back then who。
knew of the word of God, repent for the kingdom of heaven is near.。
Jesus is near now.。
He's calling you to repentance, to a purified relationship with him.。
None of us are perfect.。
We all need to come before the Lord and repent.。
And the next thing is, where is God calling you?。
So my first calling was when I was 14.。
The second calling I had was when I began university.。
And I got in touch with this group who were starting to share the gospel on campus.。
I remember going with one of the staff members and they started sharing the gospel on campus.。
And they shared with this atheist.。
And this atheist was like questioning everything about God.。
And he was so angry.。
And that night I felt such an urge, such a calling from God to help these people who。
didn't know God.。
God gave me that passion.。
God opened my eyes to these different people who didn't know him.。
My third calling was when I was working in finance.。
I was working in finance for two years.。
I was, I just came out of university.。
I was working for a small financial company that worked with all the major banks in Canada.。
I was a 24 or 23 year old.。
That was just a couple years ago.。
So 23, 24 year old and you're walking around to all the major banks in Canada, talking。
with the CFOs, the bank managers, and the credit and risk department.。
And I didn't know what I was doing half the time.。
But you know, when I got into working, I realized that this really wasn't for me.。
And that God continued to stir my heart, reminded me of his calling 14 years ago.。
And I was at a crossroads.。
Do I continue with my financial direction and go to study my CFA to become better in。
finance?。
Or do I go into ministry?。
And that time God closed the door for finance and opened this door to serve in a Christian。
organization to become a counselor at the university.。
And my fourth calling was with you guys, calling from Toronto to Hong Kong.。
And I had to leave my family, my parents, my comfort, my sports team, the Toronto Raptors.。
Fonny shaking his head.。
Sports is very dear to me.。
You know, John knows, right?。
You leave your hometown, your sports town, you come to Hong Kong where there's no sports.。
And so I had to leave my family, my sports team, my friends.。
And I've come here to help people in Hong Kong to know Jesus, to develop the next generation,。
to help the leaders of the next generation.。
And it's been amazing to see how God has allowed us to work together as a team.。
And so where is God calling you?。
Are you willing to place him as a priority?。
It takes sacrifice.。
Yes, it does.。
But in the end, it is worth it as we become fishers of men.。
And do we recognize the authority of Jesus, just like these people who saw Jesus preach。
for the first time and were in awe as we read the word of God personally today?。
Are we in awe of the Lord every day as we look into his word?。
Wow, God, you are sovereign.。
God, you are in control.。
As I go on the hikes and I go climbing and I see, wow, God, you know, every inch of this。
rock.。
You know, every hole.。
You know, every flat area of this rock.。
You know, everything in nature.。
And I'm in awe of his authority and superiority.。
Are we in awe of the Lord?。
And lastly, are you seeking to be healed and changed by Jesus?。
And as we are here in our physical bodies, yes, we are in sin.。
You know, there is original sin.。
And that is why the Holy Spirit has sent -- was sent so that he would sanctify us to become。
more like Jesus.。
Are we confessing our sins so that we become healed and become more like Jesus?。
Just recently, we were talking about mental health in our college program.。
And people were sharing how they were dealing with the different mental struggles, right?。
Questioning God, God, why did you do this?。
Why did you take away this person?。
And they were struggling to trust God.。
And I encouraged them that, yes, these things happened.。
But that God is still in control.。
I was recently so struck by one of my former coworkers.。
And we went on a mission trip together.。
And he has four sons.。
And we went to Uganda together.。
And his son was, I think, five and then seven at that time.。
And now his son was 11.。
And I just saw on Facebook that his son was crossing the road to go to school.。
And he got ran over by a truck.。
And I was so shocked because I was with him.。
He was five and seven at this time.。
And now he is with the Lord.。
And I'm so touched to see my friend, who is the parents, to have to go through this.。
It's so tough to lose a child, 11-year-old child.。
And I was with him in two mission trips.。
And I was still shocked.。
And I was still taken aback by this and what had happened.。
He just died December 1st.。
But to see how these parents have come to the Lord and asked the Lord for healing, it。
has inspired me to do the same, to go to the Lord for healing.。
And it inspires us that we also need to go to the Lord.。
He heals not only publicly.。
He heals personally.。
God wants to heal you.。
In his time and in his way.。
And we need to trust that.。
That God would heal you in his time and in his way.。
And sometimes it might take the other side of eternity for us to be free, fully free。
and fully healed.。
May the Lord bless you.。
May the Lord come into your life, burst into your life, so that you would recognize who。
he is, his authority.。
So that you would be healed.。
So that you would make him the first priority of your life.。
So that you would come and leave your direction to follow him.。
We're going to sing a song and it's called I Surrender.。
Let us surrender to the Lord as he comes into our lives.。
Let him be first.。
Let him be the authority of our life and let him heal us.。
Lord I pray that you would bless everyone who is listening to this talk now.。
That Lord, you would help them to know you more.。
To repent, to turn from their ways, to go from one place to another.。
And that is to you.。
A relationship with you.。
Help them to surrender.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
