Thank you, Pastor John.。
It is delightful to be able to bring to you the Word of God tonight.。
And it's been an amazing series so far, just to be able to look into the Book of Revelation。
and the seven letters to the seven churches.。
We start off with the book, the letter to the Church of Ephesus.。
Now if we open the PowerPoint, we'll see that Ephesus was the New York of that time.。
It had over 200,000 people, right?。
It was the New York and the busiest, the most popular city of that time.。
Yet Jesus was saying to them, "You have lost your first love.。
You have lost your first love."。
We looked into the letter to Smyrna.。
It was the fragrance capital.。
It was like one of the, you know, Southern France fragrance capitals like now, right?。
Most of the fragrance of the world comes from France.。
But they were a suffering church.。
Jesus said they were poor, but yet they were rich in Christ.。
And Jesus was asking them to stay faithful, stay faithful.。
We looked at Pergamum, right?。
It was a worldly church and Jesus was telling them to repent and follow God.。
Stop accepting the ways of the world.。
Thyatira, they accepted wrong doctrine.。
And Jesus asked them to repent and follow God's word instead.。
Sardis was the dead church.。
And Jesus says, "Wake up, right?。
Strengthen what remains."。
Philadelphia, we looked at that last week.。
And Pastor Michelle did a great job of telling us how this church was spiritually alive.。
And Jesus told them to hold fast.。
And now finally, we arrive at the last church, Laodicea.。
And we're going to see what Jesus says to this church.。
And we'll read Revelations chapter three.。
So the angel of the church in Laodicea write, "These are the words of the Amen, the faithful。
and the true witness, the ruler of God's creation.。
I know your deeds that you are neither cold nor hot.。
I wish you were either one or the other.。
So because you are lukewarm, neither hot or cold, I'm about to spit you out of my mouth.。
You say, 'I am rich.。
I have acquired wealth.。
And I do not need a thing.'。
But you do not realize that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind, and naked.。
I counsel you to buy from me gold refined in the fire so that you can become rich and。
white clothes to wear so that you can cover your shameful nakedness and selves to put。
on your eyes so that you can see.。
Those whom I love, I rebuke and discipline.。
So be earnest and repent.。
Here I am.。
I stand at the door and knock.。
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that person and。
they with me.。
To the one who is victorious, I will give the right to sit with me on my throne just。
as I was victorious and sat down with my father on his throne.。
Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches."。
So we see firstly that Jesus says he introduces himself as the Amen.。
These are the words of the Amen, the faithful and the true witnesses.。
Now obviously we say Amen after every prayer and it means it's true.。
And Jesus himself claims that he is the truth, that he is the faithful and true witness.。
And we're going to see why Jesus claims that he or emphasizes here that he is the faithful。
and true.。
Firstly we're going to look into the Church of Laodicea.。
Three things, the criticism of this church, Christ's challenge for this church, and finally。
the covenant that Jesus makes and the promise that he makes with this church.。
So firstly let me introduce some background about the Church of Laodicea.。
It was the banking center of that region, right?。
It was the financial center of that world.。
They had huge banks and all the treasuries were there.。
It was, Laodicea was built on major trade routes, all right?。
So it was known for its beautiful textiles of woolen, of tunics.。
It was built on the trade routes where people would pass through, all the major trade routes.。
It also had a major breakthrough in eye medicine, special eye medicine, that people came from。
all over the world, Aesop, to have this cure for eye medicine.。
And so we will see how Jesus speaks intentionally into the specific characters, characteristics。
of this church.。
Well we read in verse 15 that Jesus claims, "I know your works.。
You are neither cold nor hot, that if you were either cold or hot, so because you are。
lukewarm, neither hot or cold, I will spit you out of my mouth."。
The traditional view is this, right?。
That you're not hot, you're not fervent, you're not zealous, you're not all in for Jesus,。
you're not cold, you're not uncommitted, you know, just don't care about Jesus.。
But Jesus interestingly here says that hot and cold are sort of positive things, right?。
You're neither cold nor hot.。
And we're going to see why Jesus says cold and hot were sort of good things.。
In the nearby cities, Hierapolis, it had hot springs, right?。
Who's been to the hot springs?。
Who likes hot springs?。
Hierapolis had these beautiful hot springs.。
They were medical, healing hot springs.。
Nearby there was also the city of Colossae.。
It was near the mountains.。
So they had fresh, life-giving spring water, right?。
But this city, Laodicea, did not have water.。
It did not have water.。
In fact, they had to build pipes from nearby cities to ship in the water.。
And as this water was coming in, the sun would heat it up and it would become sort of lukewarm,。
tepid.。
And also it was full of minerals, this water.。
And I remember going to the city of Waterloo, the University of Waterloo, which is pretty。
close to Toronto.。
I know some of our students, you know, go there.。
And when I was staying over there, I looked into the tap water and there was like white。
residue on it.。
There was minerals on it.。
This was the kind of water that Laodicea had.。
It was full of minerals.。
You know, if you boiled it, it would, you know, sort of sink up the air.。
If you boiled your vegetables, it would change the taste of the vegetables.。
This water, it wasn't refreshing and cold like Colossae, you know, which you could bottle,。
right?。
Colossae bottled water.。
It wasn't the healing hot spring water of Hierapolis.。
This water in Laodicea was tepid, full of minerals.。
You wanted to spit it out of your mouth.。
Have you eaten something and then like, "Ugh, it's rotten."。
You just want to spit it out of your mouth.。
And that is what Jesus says here, that you are like your water.。
I want to spit you out of my mouth.。
I don't want, you know, lukewarm water, mineralized, you know, it just didn't taste good.。
This water was no good.。
And so Christ's criticism against this church was of two things, as we see in the next slide。
here.。
One, it was the wrong work.。
They had the wrong work and they had the wrong evaluation.。
And so we're firstly going to see the wrong work.。
We don't know exactly what happened in this church.。
They either did no work for Jesus.。
They did not serve Jesus.。
They did not have a heart for Jesus or their work was compromised.。
Obviously in the Roman situation back then, there was a lot of adulterous worship, just。
like we saw in all the other cities.。
And possibly this church was influenced by the Roman idolatry, right?。
Their church had become so accustomed to the Roman idolatry ways and traditions that they。
were not effective and unfaithful in their witness for Jesus.。
And secondly, Jesus criticizes them of wrong evaluation.。
He says here, "For you say, I am rich.。
I have prospered.。
I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind, and naked."。
In fact, they may have equated their economic prosperity with their spiritual health.。
Laodicea was the richest city of that time.。
It was so rich.。
In fact, in AD 17, there was a massive earthquake, right?。
It hit all the cities, Philadelphia and Laodicea.。
And a lot of these cities were crying out to Rome, "Rome, we need your help.。
Help us restore our buildings.。
It's all collapsed."。
Laodicea was so rich.。
They said, "We don't need your help, Rome.。
We can build back our city ourselves."。
That's how rich Laodicea was.。
Laodicea was so rich.。
They had two coliseums.。
Ephesus was a population around 200,000.。
They had one coliseum.。
Laodicea had 40,000 people.。
They had two coliseums.。
That's how rich they were.。
They were, in modern city, it would be maybe like Dubai, right?。
With its Dubai Mall, with its huge towers, with its fancy restaurants, with its posh。
cars and shops.。
Laodicea may have been like Hong Kong, the financial center.。
Laodicea was so rich, and yet Jesus said to this church, "You think you're rich, but in。
fact you are poor."。
And we learned of a church that was poor, Smyrna, right?。
They didn't conform to the idolatry of that time.。
They did not conform to the ways of the world.。
And because of that, they were physically poor.。
They may have not had jobs or could not trade or do business, but yet Jesus said they were。
spiritually rich.。
And Jesus says that Laodicea is sort of the opposite.。
They are rich physically, but poor spiritually.。
And could that be us today, in our situation, as we see in the next slide, that we have。
conformed to this world?。
Is Jesus accusing us today of the wrong works, that either we've conformed to the patterns。
of this world or that we have the wrong evaluation of ourselves?。
You know, ever since I've been in Hong Kong for three years now, time passes so quickly,。
I've seen that Hong Kong people are just rushing from appointment to appointment, rushing from。
MTR to MTR.。
They're like zombies, right?。
Rushing from schoolwork to university, from university to their job, trying to climb that。
corporate ladder.。
We have just been chasing after this world, and we've been consumed by the world and conformed。
to the patterns of this world.。
Maybe we have the wrong evaluation of ourselves.。
We think we're doing well because, oh, we have a great job, we have a great family,。
we're attending church every Sunday.。
We look great on the outside.。
But could it be that we have the wrong evaluation of ourselves?。
That we see ourselves as doing so well on the outside, but Jesus says, you are in fact。
are poor, pitiful, blind, and naked.。
And that can be for myself as well.。
I have a lot of energy, I love going from passion to passion, and yet sometimes I forget。
the most important thing, and that is spending time with God, that relationship, real relationship。
with the Father, and then fellowship with each other.。
So we firstly, we see Christ's criticism, Christ's criticism that they have the wrong。
work and the wrong evaluation.。
And sometimes not only do we have wrong self-evaluation of ourselves, we have wrong evaluation of。
others.。
The really popular show that just, a new season that just came out was The Crown.。
People thought Princess Diana, wow, she's so beautiful, she married the perfect guy,。
she's a princess, she has the most fans in the world, but yet, you know, as it reveals。
in documentaries that she married the perfect person, the prince, but yet there was no love。
in that relationship.。
And she was seeking after true love, because Charles was going off with somebody else.。
She had all the fans of the world, and we thought, wow, she's so popular, so loved,。
and yet there's documentation that she was lonely, that she was isolated in the palace.。
So not only do we have the wrong evaluation of ourselves, sometimes we see the world,。
and we have the wrong evaluation of the world.。
And next, and next, we see Christ's challenge to the Church of Laodicea.。
Gold refined by fire, white garments, and I said, and firstly, Jesus says, I counsel。
you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich.。
Jesus was like, you guys are so rich, you like to shop, you know what, you should come。
buy from me, you should shop from me, right?。
And Jesus is challenging the banking institution of that time.。
Laodicea, the Church of Laodicea, you're so rich, but in fact, you are poor, you should。
be buying from me, because you have spiritual poverty.。
And Jesus warns this church against relying on the banking institution of that time.。
Gold refined by fire, what does it mean?。
It means that you put gold into a hot furnace, so that the impurities would come out.。
And how do you know, how did the blacksmith know that this gold was ready?。
Because blacksmith knew that the gold was pure, when he looked into the gold, and he。
could see his own reflection.。
He could see his own reflection.。
And that is what Jesus wanted.。
Jesus wanted to purify them, so that Jesus, when he looked at these people, this church,。
he could see his own reflection.。
Jesus wanted to see himself in this church.。
And that's why he says, "Buy from me gold refined by fire."。
Next we see, Jesus says, "Buy from me white garments, so that you may clothe yourselves,。
and the shame of your nakedness might not be seen."。
You love your beautiful textiles, your woolen, your tunics, and yet you are naked, Jesus。
says.。
The church of Laodicea relied on their outward appearance, on their fashion, and yet deep。
down they were naked, because they were unfaithful to the Lord.。
They served foreign gods, and Jesus criticized them for relying on their outward appearance.。
And lastly, Jesus criticizes them, challenges them to buy eye salve, to anoint your eyes。
so that you may see.。
They had this special cure, right, of eye salve, eye medicine.。
And they're like, "We don't need Jesus.。
We have the best medicine in the world.。
We have the best clothing in the world.。
We have the most money in the world.。
We do not need Jesus."。
And Jesus was in fact challenging them, "You are blind, you are naked, and you are poor."。
Could it be that we are in the same situation as we see in the next slide?。
That we say, "Oh, we don't need Jesus.。
We have all the entertainment in the world.。
We can flood our mind with Netflix and show after show, binge after binge.。
We don't need Jesus.。
We don't need...。
We have our hunger satisfied.。
We have all the buffets in the world.。
We can jump from cultural food, Thai to Viet, to Indian.。
We have all the food in the world.。
We don't need Jesus.。
We have all the money in the world.。
We don't need Jesus.。
We have all the education and knowledge, Google, in the world."。
Could it be that we are like the Church of Laodicea?。
That we thought we had it all, and yet in fact, Jesus says we have nothing.。
We're spiritually poor.。
We're blind.。
We can only see ourselves in our own outwardness, and we can't see within the nakedness of our。
heart the sin that is within.。
Could it be?。
Could it be that we are blinded from truly seeing ourselves?。
And so Christ's challenge to the Church of Laodicea is this, "To whom I love, I reprove。
and discipline, so be zealous and repent."。
And Christ's challenge is this, that we should repent.。
This church should repent and go back towards Jesus.。
And it's so encouraging here, "To those whom I love, I discipline."。
Just as a father loves his children, you discipline your children.。
And the last thing we're going to look at is Christ's covenant with the Church of Laodicea.。
So we went through the criticism.。
They had the wrong work.。
They had the wrong self-evaluation.。
Christ's challenge to them was, "Buy from me.。
You like to buy?。
Buy from me.。
Gold refined by fire so that you won't be poor.。
White garments so that you won't be naked.。
True eye salve so that you won't be blind."。
And now we see Christ's covenant.。
Let us read verse 20 again.。
And he says firstly, "Here I am.。
I stand at the door and knock."。
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that person and。
they with me.。
To the one who is victorious, I will give the right to sit with me on my throne just。
as I was victorious and sat down with my father on his throne.。
Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches.。
Firstly, Christ promises fellowship with this church.。
And second, a restored position, a position.。
And so firstly, we see fellowship, right?。
"Behold, I stand at the door and knock.。
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with him."。
You know, there was some report that just came out.。
I just saw it on CNN or something like that, that the Romans used to feast.。
You know how many for how long?。
They used to feast for hours, maybe days.。
They would have meal after meal.。
And I don't know if this story was right, that they would puke out some of the things。
that they ate so that they could eat more.。
You know, that's what sort of Princess Diana did, right?。
She wrote that in her book, that she was going through that.。
And this is what the Romans did, that they would feast with each other for hours on end,。
hours on end.。
And you would only feast with people that you would consider close friends, right?。
You don't know if, you know, some people would want to poison your food or whatnot.。
You know, they didn't have the same food regulations as we do today, right?。
And so Jesus is saying, "I promise you that I am here.。
I want to be in your life."。
"Stop replacing me with money.。
Stop replacing me.。
Stop replacing me with your white garments.。
And instead be clothed by me, be a new creation in me.。
Instead of relying on your medicine, would you rely on me to heal you?。
Would you rely on me to heal you?"。
And so that's the first thing, that Jesus promises that they would have fellowship if。
they are willing to open the door and let Jesus in.。
And the second thing that he promises is that whoever conquers, I will grant him to sit。
with me on my throne as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on His throne.。
Isn't this an amazing promise that Jesus says, "Even though you've been unfaithful, even。
though you've been caught in idolatry possibly, I still will。
accept you if you conquer over your sin."。
And that's what Jesus is saying, that this church can sit with Jesus on His side.。
What an amazing promise that we could be accepted by Jesus, that this church could be accepted,。
adopted by Jesus.。
And so we see that this church in Laodicea, you know, there was a loveless church, there。
was a suffering church, as we see in the next slide, a worldly church.。
Sardis was a spiritually dead church, Philadelphia was a spiritually alive church.。
Laodicea was an ineffective and unfaithful church.。
And Jesus is faithful, that this church was unfaithful.。
And Jesus wanted this church to repent from conformity of the world and to be zealous。
for Him.。
And could Jesus be saying the same thing to us today, as we see in the next slide?。
Could He be knocking on the door of our hearts?。
You know, it's amazing that this scripture was actually for Christians, right?。
"Behold, I stand at the door and knock.。
I want to come in and eat with you."。
Church of Laodicea, I want to.。
And yet this church was full of gold, or money, sorry, money and textiles and medicine, and。
they had no room for Jesus.。
Could that be us today?。
That we've stuffed up ourselves with Netflix, stuffed up ourselves with food and the worldly。
things and education and money, and we've left no room for Jesus.。
I studied economics and I want to maximize everything.。
I want to have, you know, all the nicest shoes and have Jesus.。
I want to have all the best food in the world and have Jesus.。
The thing is, I don't think we can have both.。
We can't serve two masters.。
Either we'll love one or hate the other.。
And brothers and sisters, is it possible that we've gone the wrong way?。
We loved our position, our job, and we found our identity in our job and our work instead。
of our identity in Jesus.。
Could it be that we found our identity in school works and our grades instead of finding。
our identity in Jesus?。
Could it be that we found our identity in a prosperous, beautiful family instead of。
truly finding our identity in Jesus?。
Not that those things aren't important.。
Not that God hasn't placed you, blessed you with those things.。
But is Jesus first in our lives?。
Last week, one student came to Titus, and he's been coming to church since he was a。
baby.。
And he came to Titus for the first time and he shared about how his friend was going through。
suicide and he had to help him and convince him, you know, don't find your identity in。
your grades, you know.。
You can still overcome it.。
And he was talking about how he had a broken relationship, he just going through a breakup.。
And he opened up about that.。
And the Spirit led us to talk about how God can make a difference in his life, to heal。
his broken heart, to heal his friend and how God could use him and give him wisdom to heal。
his friend.。
And finally, we arrived at a point where I started to understand that he never placed。
his life into the hands of Jesus to let him to be the Lord and Savior of his life.。
And so that night, I was like, you haven't asked Jesus to be the Lord and Savior of your。
life.。
You should do it now.。
Jesus is knocking on the door of your heart.。
Yeah, it's taken out of context a little bit, that Jesus still uses that.。
And I asked him, are you willing to now ask Jesus into your life to heal your brokenness,。
to give you wisdom, to give you direction in life, to give you a new purpose and a new。
identity and the Holy Spirit to guide you.。
And that night last week, he prayed the prayer and invited Jesus in.。
And Jesus came in and ate with him and had fellowship with him.。
The Church of Laodicea thought they did not need Jesus because they had it all.。
Are we willing to repent of our own ways and ask Jesus to be the first priority in our。
life, to ask him to be the first love of our life?。
We're going to respond in a song called "Lord, I Need You."。
And that's the reality.。
We all need Jesus.。
Whether you're a pastor and you're going to church every day for work, or whether you。
just come once a week, we all need Jesus.。
We're all broken.。
We're all naked.。
We're all poor.。
We need Jesus to restore our relationship with him so that we can have a new identity,。
be clothed by Christ, be led by the Holy Spirit.。
I pray for you that you would ask Jesus to be first in your life.。
Let us pray.。
Heavenly Father, bless us as we repent and surrender our lives to you.。
Help us to know that we need you.。
There's nothing in this world that can replace our relationship with you.。
Humble us, Lord.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
(upbeat music)。
