Hi KFCI and Happy New Year. I love this sermon each year. It is quite possibly, no, probably。
my favourite sermon of the year. At the beginning of each year, we get an opportunity to ask。
ourselves the question, "Where are we?" and "Where are we going?" I, and indeed our whole。
KFCI team, get the chance to go away and pray, to listen to God and to try to ascertain His。
direction for us. Now this year, our trip to the UK to be close to Sandra's father has。
afforded me an unexpected opportunity to seek God's face away from the hustle and bustle。
of Hong Kong that I hadn't bargained for. Indeed, I was at a church service in Camarden。
in South Wales when a young man came and gave me a prophecy that the time away would give。
me an eagle's view of Hong Kong. He saw the people of Hong Kong as young chicks. As we。
know, the eagle has the best vision, the best eyesight of any living creature. I felt that。
God gave me three words, "Us, you, and them." You say, "Big deal. That's not a very dramatic。
revelation." To make it worse, I've given you a picture, a diagram of those three words,。
"Us, you, and them." But let me explain. By "us," I refer to the pastors of the church.。
There is a call to us as pastors to be ready for all that God wants us to be and to do。
as a church. That means discovering or rediscovering our gift, our calling, and operating in it.。
That means proper preparation for all that God has got for us as a church and for our。
city. That means unity with other pastors and clergy, other churches, and end to division。
and denominationalism. By "you," I refer to the congregations of our churches. You, that。
means recognizing that all of you are gifted. That means us equipping you. We don't want。
church to be about a few pastors doing everything, potentially getting burnt out, with you sitting。
in the pews, okay, in the chairs, allowing us to do this. So that means proper training。
to allow you to be effective ministers of the gospel. And that is the first key reason。
for this series. It is our vision to have you equipped as ministers. I attended a church。
in Shatin one Sunday and was given a bulletin. The first thing I noticed was this. It said。
this, "Pastor, Reverend Stephen Turey, ministers, everybody else, you are a minister. You need。
to be," why? "For them. By them, I refer to the community, those outside of our church。
buildings." William Temple, the famous 20th century historian and archbishop, said this,。
"The church is the only institution that exists primarily for the benefit of those。
who are not its members." That means us being aware of the needs in our society. That means。
us willing to get up out of our church seats and to do something about it. That means being。
trained and equipped to do this effectively. Let me talk about Goldbrook Church. We are。
privileged to be part of this church. One church, three languages. A church content。
not to just be, but to go. A well-respected Cantonese church that had a vision in 2016。
to start an English service. A church that last year had a vision for mental health.。
You may remember on the 1st of January, 2022, I spoke on health for all, all for God. We。
had a sermon series, wellness seminars, mental health ambassadors. As we reinforced the message,。
it's okay to not be okay. This year, Goldbrook Church has discerned that our vision is to。
be equipping the saints, serving the community. Let me repeat that. Equipping the saints,。
serving the community. KFCI is pleased to 100% support this vision. It is not just to。
be a slogan, but a way of life. And in that vein, today's sermon will set the scene for。
2023 and introduce the sermon themes for the first half of the year. Our first series will。
be called equipping the saints. Straight after that, we will go into the one campaign. And。
then we will embark on a sermon series called serving the community. They will draw on various。
themes and biblical passages with a special emphasis on Ephesians 4.12 to equip the saints。
for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ. And Hebrews 10, 24 to。
25, and let us consider how we might spur one another on towards love and good deeds,。
not giving up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing, but encouraging each。
other and all the more as you see the day approaching. Let me share some of the things。
that you'll be hearing. Next week, we will have a special guest speaker, Dr. Seth Kim.。
He lives, eats and breathes church unity. We work very closely together on things like。
initiatives like the one campaign, movement day and next move. He runs an amazing church。
in Hong Kong, Harvest Mission Gospel Church, mainly reaching out to university students。
and young adults. Now, why is that? Well, before Paul begins to teach about equipping,。
he speaks at length about unity in the body of Christ. Although this is a theme we've。
touched upon often, and we'll of course follow this up, this series with the one campaign.。
It is essential that we cover this before we even try to get to first base in equipping。
the saints. The week after that, January 21st, will be our own Pastor Johnny. We'll be of。
course preparing for Lunar New Year. And as we prepare for Lunar New Year, we'll be using。
Jesus' experience in the wilderness, his temptation by the devil and his emergence。
empowered by the Holy Spirit as a first base for equipping. You know, Jesus took 30 years,。
30 years to prepare for a three year ministry, 10 times longer sharpening the axe as he did。
cutting down trees. And yet, following his graduation ceremony in the River Jordan at。
his baptism, there was still an important final preparation in the wilderness. We see。
how Jesus was led by the Holy Spirit into the wilderness and returned in the power of。
the Spirit. We have to be prepared before we embark on equipping. We can take a closer。
look at Satan's temptations and how he attempts to contradict the Father's promises over him。
and indeed us. I will be speaking the following week, January 28th, and this is perhaps the。
fulcrum of the series. It includes our key verse, verse 12, to equip the saints for the。
work of the ministry, for building up the body of Christ. This verse is like a bridge。
between Paul's description of the five-fold ministry, the offices of the Holy Spirit,。
and the passage in verses 13 to 16, which describes beautifully why we need to equip。
the saints. The bridge leads us to how we are equipped. Then we are going to get two。
how-to sermons from two gifted servants the Lord has brought to this church. First year。
on February 4th, Pastor Johnny will be talking on witness. Johnny is an evangelist, full。
stop. In 2022, he led literally tens of people, many young people, to faith in Christ. But。
we have a problem. In the second half of 2023, Johnny will be on sabbatical. So, do we pause。
on evangelism while he's away? If someone wants to get saved, do we ask them to wait。
until Johnny returns? No. No, no, no. And Johnny will be sharing a practical sermon。
on how you can witness and share your faith. And then on February 11th, we have Pastor。
James. Pastor James is a pastor teacher, full stop. One thing that I love about him, he。
preaches like I sing without any real notes. He is one of my, he's one of our favorite。
preachers in the whole world. But as we shared a few months back, we have empowered him and。
Christina and their team to pioneer our family gathering on Sunday mornings. I'm pleased。
to say it's going really well as we seek to reach out to young parents and their children.。
Now what that means is invariably he is preaching less here on Saturday nights. That has provided。
opportunities for our G5 speakers and others. But we want to equip you to be able to teach。
God's word as James shares a practical sermon on how to teach the gospel.。
After this series, we will be joined for one campaign with thousands of churches around。
the world. Most of them will be adopting the teaching series on the parables of Jesus from。
Luke's gospel. And there will be small group material for our clans and weekly videos to。
back this up. It is an eight week series. I've shown it here and I'm so looking forward。
to it. And after Easter, from April the 15th on, hopefully equipped, hopefully one, we。
will move to serving the community. A series that will be as practical as much as it teaches.。
We will partner Hong Kong NGOs and demonstrate for them as we move from you to them. Having。
previously moved from us to you. I am convinced it will be like no other sermon series we've。
ever had before. Watch this space. Equipping the saints, serving the community. In the。
minutes that remain, I want to, as it were, put this in context. And in particular, focus。
on my text for today, Ephesians 4.12. I'll read it again. To equip the saints for the。
work of the ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ. I believe that this。
verse and indeed others that we'll be looking at during this series is in essence, the follow。
up of what God has done on the cross through Jesus Christ. It describes the purpose that。
God has for his people. We would maybe have expected the resurrected Lord Jesus to remain。
on earth, but he didn't. Instead, we know that Christ's spirit came upon his people。
and lived through them. Christ is living himself out through our lives. Christ's plan A for。
the world is the church. He does not have a plan B. And so Christ in a real way is living。
his life out on earth through our lives. This is the concept we see in Christ being called。
the head and Christians being called his body. We are good stewards when we understand and。
cooperate with Christ's purpose. Christ established this extension of his ministry through working。
in each of our lives. We will see how this takes shape in our series. A major shaper。
that has impacted every believer is the way that Christ has distributed his spiritual。
gifts to his people. But, and it's a big but, we must not be content on having those。
gifted servants like Johnny, like James, like Michelle, like Paul, like Bonnie, that the。
Lord has brought to our church and allow church to simply be a service we attend. Yes, it。
is right to appreciate them and their gifting. But if we pay them to do all the serious work。
of the church, we miserably fail. The church is severely malformed because we have separated。
those who pastor and teach from the rest of the congregation. Now, of course, there is。
a real difference between the equipers and the saints, but it is not as most people imagine.。
Paul states that a certain group are equipers. They are there to help everyone else to do。
effectively do their work. But most churches I have found want to hire a pastor to do the。
work of the church. Tick the box, job done. They want to believe that the clergy are holy。
in a different sense to the people. Like when I go to eat with fellow Christians and they。
want me to say grace before dinner as if my grace is better than yours. The malformation,。
the deformity of the church has become so accentuated today that a pastor can often。
be evaluated on how much he makes the audience comfortable and laugh rather than equipping。
them. Yes, do note that I said audience rather than congregation. People often revolve around。
the entertainer rather than before the Lord. Ephesians 4.12 gives us a wholly different。
concept that many of us are shocked at when we begin to understand it. And it's in the。
word saint. Paul's use of the word saints here should totally eradicate this clergy。
laity concept. All of God's people are holy and expected to serve him. The goal of having。
such instructors is to empower, enable the saints so that they can serve. They bring。
the word of God to our lives so that everyone in the congregation can serve. Saints is not。
meant to be a term describing the few chosen virtuous Christians, but rather a term that。
includes all, all Christians. As we see in Ephesians chapter one, all Christians are。
chosen. All Christians are called and all Christians are thus set apart for the Lord.。
All genuine Christians are saints. Even the apostles, prophets, etc. are considered saints.。
This group of instructors then are a subset of the larger group of Christians. But much。
more important are the words here, "He gave to equip the saints for the work of ministry,。
for building up the body of Christ." A certain number of individuals are specially gifted。
to enable all the saints to do the work. This verse follows Paul describing apostles, prophets,。
evangelists, and teacher pastors. The phrase "work of ministry" in verse 12 might be。
defined in many ways, but the more important aspect is to recognize that actually each。
and every Christian can and must be transformed into a servant of Christ. Hence the motivation。
for this sermon series. I like to think of God's purpose to work through the church in。
two ways. First of all, we all, the whole church, are an amplification of Christ to。
the world. Since we are many, Christ's love and healing can be introduced to many people。
at one time rather than the crowd mentality so prevalent in the New Testament. People。
would crowd around Jesus trying to touch him. Secondly, it is helpful to think on the individual。
level where Christ in his glory wants to live through our lives. We might be, and to be。
honest, a nobody, but because Christ lives in us, we become a wonderful and awesome contact。
for others to meet God's love. That's true whether we meet up with a Christian or a non-Christian.。
We can always radiate God's love and utilize our special spiritual gifts for the building。
up of the body of Christ. We're not just different people meeting together in the fellowship。
hall of the Far East Finance Center, but different parts of Christ's body. We need each other。
so that we can individually can be built up and as a whole fully display Christ's glorious。
love. When the church begins to understand this, it stops its arguments and criticism。
and steps ahead in faith and love. It begins to value others rather than just putting up。
with them. Even when there are difficulties amongst us with other people, the individual。
is not to focus on what he or she gets, but gives. The Lord already gave to the saints.。
Now they are to give. They can do the work of service just as Christ did. It is us to。
you, to them in practice. As the church puts itself behind the imperfection of others and。
focuses on building each other up, the whole community begins to radically grow. The world。
begins to notice. They will want to know the God that we serve. We can serve each other。
just as Christ served us and thus finish building up the body of Christ. The goal of the church。
then is to make sure it equips each saint to participate in the ministry. So in conclusion,。
this one small verse, Ephesians 4.12, clearly maps out God's design for his church. He enables。
the church to reflect his love and truth in the world. As we awaken to the glorious and。
most gracious calling for the church to serve him, we are all the more moved at the love。
and grace of God towards our own lives. Instead of growing in pride, we are humbled that God。
would work in our lives in such a wonderful fashion. When the people of God catch the。
truth and the love of God as shown in his great plan for the people of God, we awaken。
in his love and humbly come before him, astonished at the love and glory of Christ. A warning,。
I'm going to get passionate now. I need you to see what I see. Now, now is the time for。
a change. God wants to reveal the glory of Christ in his body now. That means that God。
is looking for opportunities to reveal his glory through his people. It is why us to。
you to them has to be our vision, the way forward. Again and again, we need to return。
to the process through which this unity of faith, this knowledge of the son of God and。
this maturity comes about. It will come through both the right instructions of apostles, prophets,。
evangelists, and pastor teachers, but also from God's people who have caught the vision。
of what they can be in Christ. My dear friends and fellow church members, I will be 70 years。
of age in a few short months, three score years and 10. I love the church with all my。
heart, every brick of it. I love the church as it is, but I love the church too much to。
leave it as it is. I recognize that God has gifted me. He's put his hand upon me for this。
important moment, but I recognize that this gifting is for what? For equipping the saints.。
Equipping the saints. But then again, I recognize that this equipping is for what? To serve。
the community, to serve the community. Us is to become you, is to become them. That。
is my vision for 2023 and beyond. Thank you. God bless you.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
