Okay, all right, let's get right to it.。
So today we're going to be talking about 2 Timothy chapter 2.。
The title is "Charged to Work."。
I didn't get to pick it.。
James did.。
But chapter 2 is a letter from 1,956 years ago.。
So it's dated at year 65.。
And it's written from Paul, I drew him, that's how I think Paul looks like.。
Paul who is an apostle awaiting execution in Rome to his young protege Timothy, who。
is a young pastor in Ephesus.。
And he's struggling a bit because partially there's a lot of false teachers in Ephesus.。
And I also think he has some stomach problems and he's timid as mentioned in earlier chapters.。
And so this chapter, chapter 2, is a culmination of what Paul has learned from his entire life。
and has learned throughout his years as an apostle.。
And he's passing it on to Timothy because he's about to die.。
2 Timothy is the last letter that Paul has written.。
And he's literally awaiting execution in Rome by Emperor Nero, who's a bit of a crazy。
goon.。
But let me, oh, hello.。
What?。
Sorry.。
So I'm going to read the passage out to you.。
He says, oh, what?。
The order of my slides.。
Okay, no slides, no slides.。
"You then, my child," he says, "be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus and what。
you've heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust to faithful men who will。
be also able to teach.。
Share in suffering as a soldier of Christ.。
No soldier gets entangled with civilian pursuits since his aim is to serve the one who enlisted。
him.。
An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules, and it is the hardworking。
farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops.。
Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.。
Remember Jesus Christ risen from the dead, the offspring of David, David, David, sorry,。
a speech to my gospel for which I'm suffering, bound in chains as a criminal.。
But the word of God is not bound.。
Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the。
salvation in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.。
The saying is trustworthy, for if we die with him, we will also live with him.。
If we endure, we will also reign with him.。
If we deny him, he will also deny us.。
And if we are faithless, he remains faithful because he can't deny himself.。
Remind them of these things and charge them before God not to quarrel about words which。
does no good but only ruins the hearers.。
Yikes, my mom's asleep.。
Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who has no need to。
be ashamed of the word, rightly handling the truth.。
But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness, and。
their talk will spread like gangrene.。
Among them are Hymenaeus and Philistines who have swerved from the truth.。
They have claimed that the resurrection has already happened, and they're upsetting the。
faith of some.。
But God's firm foundation stands bearing the seal, the Lord knows those who are his, and。
let those, let everybody who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.。
And gave his check, if I'm saying the right thing.。
Now in the great house, there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also clay。
and wood, some for honorable uses and some for dishonorable.。
So if anybody cleanses themselves from what is dishonorable, there will be a vessel for。
honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good。
work.。
So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who。
call on the Lord with a pure heart.。
Have nothing to do with foolish and ignorant controversies.。
You know that they only breed quarrels.。
And let the Lord's servant not be quarrelsome, but kind to everybody.。
Will to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness.。
So that God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of truth, and they。
may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by。
him to do his will.。
So that's the passage, and so let's pray.。
Heavenly Father God, thank you so much for this time that we can gather, Lord.。
You're the God of the universe.。
You've created the world, and it's your canvas, your people is your masterpiece, Lord.。
Thank you for this opportunity that I get to preach, Lord.。
There are so many loved ones in front of me, and because I love them so much, I really。
want to impress them, but Lord, deliver me from this temptation.。
Let this not be a showcase of intellectual gymnastics.。
Let this be a mighty display of how your word is alive and active, a double-edged sword。
pierces through hearts, Lord.。
Lord, I especially lift up those who have fallen away from you, or don't know you yet.。
Lord, I just pray for them that they may experience your goodness through your word, Lord.。
That instead of choosing themselves to be their own gods, that they will choose you.。
I pray all these things in your precious name, amen.。
Liddy, let's get to it.。
All right, what's it?。
Okay, cool.。
So this is what sin looks like, and this is the consequences of sin.。
And I love memes, and what I'm trying to say is that sin often looks really attractive,。
and it's very hard for us to sort of differentiate what culture is and what truth is.。
And so before we go through a section by section deep dive of the passage, I want us to go。
through, I want us to play a little game, and I want you to play this game as if your。
life depends on it, and it's not the squid game, but nobody's gonna die.。
But I just want you guys to play it seriously.。
So let us begin.。
This is Joseph Albert's interaction of color.。
All right, so all who thinks that the Xs are the same color, raise your hand.。
The Xs with the same color, one, two, three, four, five.。
And all who think it's a different color, raise your hand.。
Hold your hand up here.。
You can't tell culture from truth, because ladies and gentlemen, if you can see the bottom,。
they're connected.。
Color is relative.。
All right, let's play this again.。
All the people who got it wrong, actually, you know what?。
You guys can still participate.。
Let's continue.。
Raise your hand if you think it's the same color.。
All right, JP, two of them.。
Three, four, five.。
All right.。
Raise your hand if you think it's a different color.。
Oh, praise the Lord.。
Do you still think it's the same color?。
You still think it's the same color?。
Nah.。
They can't be more different.。
All right, last one, last one, last one.。
Raise your hand if you think it's the same color.。
All right, Clinton, JP, there's one at the back.。
Uncle Vincent, Anshan.。
You think it's the same color?。
Oh, bless the Lord.。
They're the same color.。
So I don't teach art, but I love art, and I'm an artist, so hence this little exercise.。
So much of our definition of things like happiness and work comes from our culture and not from。
the truth, which is scripture.。
And we often conflate the truth with culture, as we just saw.。
And so I hope this exercise illustrated to you that we must walk by faith and not by。
sight, because sight is very confusing.。
And then I want to talk about sort of confusing God's view of work and man's view of work。
before we dive into the passage.。
So the pinnacle of God's view of work is actually suffering.。
And Jesus is the best example.。
He died for our sins.。
And God can really turn nothing into something.。
And really what we're doing on earth right now is just rearranging the atoms that he's。
created.。
Nothing more than that.。
And so one of the signature moves that I think God has done is like he's able to make, what。
is he able to make?。
He's able to turn betrayal into redemption.。
And in Genesis, Joseph tells his brothers, "What you meant evil against me, God used。
it for good."。
And so you can think of suffering as a kind of boot camp, training, heaven prep.。
And then of course, in contrast to the kingdom of God, man's view of work, and the man's。
view of work, the pinnacle is earning, not suffering.。
Where time is not relationship, time is territory, time is money.。
Culture says man needs to succeed at work when they earn the most amount of money in。
the least amount of time.。
The rich deserves everything, right?。
From prostitutes to private jets, they deserve everything except suffering.。
And I think there's something seriously wrong with our world today because Hong Kong just。
came out of a report that says there's about 1.65 million people living in poverty in our。
city.。
That's about one in four of us.。
And then at the same time, in the US, the ultra rich just got richer.。
COVID made the rich 60% richer.。
That's about $1.2 trillion.。
And I don't even know what that number is.。
And so I don't understand the economics of it, but just the way culture and work functions。
in real life is not good.。
Because God intended work for us to provide for his people.。
And we are obviously falling short of that command.。
So I've organized the passage into seven habits of godly workers.。
And there's this really fun little plug that's plugged into itself to illustrate to you that。
trying to do these things on our own is like plugging a plug into the plug outlet.。
It's obviously so stupid and so useless, yet so much of us, Christians or not, that we。
just try to earn our salvation and it's so terrible.。
So without further ado, let's get into it.。
The first thing is, Paul says to Timothy, "You then, my child, be strengthened by the。
grace that is in Christ Jesus.。
And what you've heard from me in the presence of many witnesses and trusted faithful men。
who will be able to teach also."。
So we got to train the trainers.。
And why do we need to train trainers?。
What?。
Sorry.。
I thought I lost the page.。
Thank the Lord.。
So he's basically saying, "Hey, kid, look, times are tough.。
He's about to get killed.。
Like Paul's getting killed.。
And then Christians are getting persecuted."。
So he said, "You got to be strong.。
You got to be strong, but don't rely on yourself like that outlet we just saw.。
Draw strength from Christ, strength that you don't deserve, but it's a gift from God."。
Another thing, don't make up stuff.。
Stick to what you've heard.。
Don't make up stuff.。
And then go make disciples.。
Find faithful men, not fruitful men, not like the type A high-functioning people.。
I mean, they can be faithful too, but faithful men who will be able to teach also.。
That's what he's saying.。
And why this is important is because we're at church today because it was started by。
a man named Jesus.。
He made 12 disciples.。
And then 14 years later, there was a guy called Paul on his way to Damascus.。
He got converted.。
And then he met with James, who's Jesus' brother and the apostle, not an apostle.。
Hold up.。
Hold up.。
Hold up.。
And then Paul, and then met up with Peter as well, one of the disciples.。
And then the rest was history.。
Fun fact, did you know that in 1929, there was an, I came across this Times article that's。
titled "China," capital letters, colon, "Christian Majority," which reads, "Released by the National。
Information Bureau in Manhattan was the striking information that seven out of 10 members of。
the new Nationalist Cabinet of the Republic of China are Christians."。
And fast forward 100 years, I read an Economist article that showed a chart that Protestant。
Christians are growing exponentially in China, and by 2030, China may have more Christians。
than the US.。
And why do we have that?。
It's because people keep on making disciples.。
They teach the teachers.。
Teachers don't come from a factory.。
You teach them to be teachers.。
So the first thing that we ought to do is train the trainers and make disciples.。
Great.。
Boop.。
Oh, this picture.。
I don't think we have time to talk about this picture, but sorry.。
It's a cool pic, though.。
All right.。
Dope.。
The second thing is that it's so comforting.。
Thank God that we're not called to be popular, because it's so hard, and I'm not.。
And we're called to be soldiers.。
We're called to be soldiers to wage war against the currents of culture, the seduction of。
society.。
He says, "Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ.。
No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuit since its aim is to serve the one who enlisted。
him."。
So basically, God is our commander.。
Yes.。
And soldiers are part of a larger army.。
There is no one-person soldier.。
So you can't be a celebrity soldier.。
I can give you a hundred bucks if you can name a famous soldier.。
Okay, actually, no, never mind.。
There might be some famous soldiers.。
But what I'm trying to say is that we should follow the example of this king, King Jehoshaphat,。
which he said, "For we are powerless against this great horde that is coming against us.。
We do not know what to do, but our eyes are set on you."。
2 Chronicles 20, verse 12.。
And King of Judah was in face of battle.。
And what he chooses to do is to pray to God and set his eyes on God.。
And so, oh, nope, not about this slide.。
Cool.。
And so, right, in this passage, he talks about, he mentions the soldier, he mentions the farmer,。
he mentions the athlete.。
What I think the three of them have in common is that they're all focused on a prize, having。
faith that there's going to be a reward.。
And they are all pretty self-disciplined and hardworking because they require patience。
to do the same thing.。
Soldiers sit in the trenches to wait for the commander.。
Runners, I guess they just run back and forth all the time.。
And then farmers are obviously like, you know, weeding out the weeds.。
It's just like, it's just labor.。
And the work is not glamorous.。
And finally, they're obedient.。
So the soldier to the commander, the farmer to the laws of nature, and the runner to the。
rules, right?。
And God takes obedience, or rather disobedience, very seriously.。
If anybody remembers, when I was studying abroad, I was just so striked by how close。
the Red Sea or Egypt was to Jerusalem.。
And I looked on Google Maps, and it's about six days to walk from Egypt to Jerusalem.。
It's about a nine hour, five minute drive.。
Yet Moses spent 40 years there, just walking around.。
And of the Israelites that spent 40 years there, Joshua and Caleb were the only ones。
who were able to make it to the promised land from their generation, because they were the。
only two spies who believed that God was good enough to take them there.。
Not even after splitting the Red Sea.。
Crazy.。
Okay, the third thing is to endure.。
In order to enjoy, you have to endure.。
I think suffering is guaranteed in the Christian life.。
In 2 Timothy 3.12, it says, "All who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will。
be persecuted."。
Suffering brings us closer to God through this kind of redemptive participation in the。
mystery of Jesus' own suffering.。
Yet many of us feel like suffering robs us of human value.。
And that's culture right there.。
You missed it.。
Suffering is a good test, and it reveals what our deepest values and what we've set our。
hopes on.。
So God invites us to work so that we can provide for his people that he loves, which is everyone.。
And I certainly don't love everyone.。
And so loving everyone is like suffering.。
But of course, what God is calling us is to a higher suffering.。
It's not like when your mom doesn't do the thing you want her to do, and then you're。
suffering.。
That's not the suffering that we're talking about.。
We're talking about martyrdom.。
We're talking about being persecuted.。
And so one thing I really like to sort of remind myself is that, like, I love the saying。
no pressure, no diamonds.。
I heard it when I was in college.。
Oh, nope.。
Sorry.。
No pressure, no diamonds.。
And so anybody know how diamonds are formed?。
No?。
Yes?。
Yes.。
All right.。
I'll tell it from...。
For those who don't know, it is formed in the ground, and it heats up about to 1,000。
degrees.。
You need about 725,000 pounds per inch of pressure to make diamonds.。
And so in this passage, what is the pressure?。
The pressure is persecution.。
It's suffering.。
And what are the diamonds?。
The diamonds are obviously the rewards that God has promised.。
Glory, honor, crowns, inheritance.。
If the earth was a first draft, and heaven is the real deal, I don't know about you,。
but I'm sure it would be lit.。
I don't know what inheritance and crowns look like, but I'm sure God would make it so cool,。
because on earth he made nudibranchs.。
Oh, I love these sea slugs.。
But just if you think about it, just bottom of the ocean, super ugly things, he made so。
glorious.。
How much more would the inheritance and glory and crowns be?。
I bet it would be so lit.。
Oh, I have other illustrations.。
Let me check for some basil in my pocket.。
Let's go back to this side.。
Sorry.。
Yeah, and I wanted to quickly just show you how on earth we find all these things that。
point to this principle that we must endure to enjoy.。
Olive oil doesn't get made unless it's crushed.。
Wine, similarly, unless it's pressed.。
Basil, if you're gonna make pesto, you gotta pound it.。
If I wanna make you smell this, I'm not gonna just like, "Here, smell this."。
I would like, "Now smell this."。
Oopsies.。
And it smells really great.。
And then I love the saying in Chinese.。
There's a tea egg up here.。
They say, "Yan sang zheng cha yi dan, yu duo li han yu yap mei."。
And I totally agree.。
It says, "Life is like a tea egg.。
The more cracks you have, the more delicious it becomes."。
Because of course, the soy sauce stuff doesn't get marinated if there's no cracks.。
And so I think we need to endure to enjoy.。
And I just wanna quickly point out in this poem is that the implications of our work。
really matter.。
There's like a cause and effect.。
If we endure, we'll also reign with him.。
But if we deny him, he will also deny us.。
And earlier on, I mentioned the verse that Jesus says, "Lord, Lord, not everybody who。
calls on my name will enter the kingdom of God."。
And so I think it's really important that in the lightness of contemporary Christianity,。
I would like to remind us all to suffer a little bit more for the glory of God, such。
as helping out with childcare or joining, supporting SCP and whatnot.。
The fourth thing is to study scriptures.。
Let me see what these slides are.。
Oh, all right, cool.。
Give me one hot second.。
So here in this passage, Paul is like, "Bro, you gotta study the word.。
You need to rightly handle the word of truth.。
Avoid irreverent babble.。
Don't be like this guy, Philistus and Hymenaeus, who swore from the truth.。
And you need to study the truth in order to not swear from it."。
I could tell all the elders the colors from whether they're the same or not, not because。
I'm smart, and it's not about getting it right for the first time.。
It's about getting it right eventually.。
And so the more you study something, then for sure you'll know it.。
And I think it's the same with the truth and the scripture.。
And so as a teacher, I sometimes support students in preparing portfolios for boarding schools。
and college, and they study so hard for standardized testing.。
They study as if their future depends on it, because we all know that our education attainment。
correlates with lifetime earnings, and this is still true for many of us.。
And so I myself took the SATs six times, and I was terrible at it.。
And God doesn't care how much you make.。
He cares about our hearts.。
So we should study the Bible with the same amount rigor, if not more, than if we study。
the GMATs, the MCATs, the DSCs, the IGCSEs, the ACTs, the SATs, as if our lives depend。
on it, because our future actually does.。
How we approach God's work, word, helps us determine how we spend eternity.。
And so we definitely should study it.。
And I love this guy.。
I'm sure moms would be crazy about this guy.。
Good looking guy, went to Oxford and Tsinghua.。
Chan man right there, but who's in my clan?。
This is, this is, this is Tian Zhongshu.。
He writes this book, "Wei Xing," called "The Fortress."。
And there's this quote that just struck me so hard.。
All my life, I've been wanting to give my parents bragging rights.。
So getting into a good school was really important to me.。
But he says, oh, am I supposed to read it?。
Oh, shoot, it's English Congregation.。
Jk. Basically, it says, "(speaking Chinese)." Thank you. "(speaking Chinese)" Clearly my Chinese is not very good.。
"(speaking Chinese)" Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.。
We are, okay, for those who don't understand, I've Google translated it.。
This diploma seems to have the function of the leaf of Adam and Eve's lower body,。
which can hide shame, ugliness, a small piece of paper can cover up a person's emptiness, ignorance, and stupidity.。
This comes from a guy who went to Oxford and Tsinghua.。
And he says, yo, the academic diploma in Chinese society,。
we see it as that little leaf that covers Adam and Eve's loins.。
And I think it's so true.。
Harvard started in 1636 with the intention of establishing a school to train Christian ministers.。
And I want to read you what the rules and precepts were in 1646.。
Before I do, I'll tell you that this used to be the seal.。
And it says, "Et Christos Ecclesia," which means "In Christ in the Church."。
And I think this is the Widener Library, maybe.。
And there used to be one book flipped down,。
which is trying to show you that symbolizes the limit of reason and the need for God's revelation.。
But they've since changed the seal to like three books up and "Veritas."。
And it's like the most secular place you could ever be in.。
And Harvard is now home to the marriage-wrecking MBA,。
according to the Financial Times, with the highest divorce rates amongst graduate school people.。
But I'm going to read you what Harvard's rules and precepts are.。
"Let every student be plainly instructed and earnestly pressed to consider well.。
The main end of his life and studies is to know God and Jesus Christ, which is eternal life."。
John 17, 3.。
"And therefore to lay Christ in the bottom as the only foundation of all sound knowledge and learning.。
And seeing that the Lord only giveth wisdom,。
let everyone seriously set himself by prayer in secret to seek it of him."。
Proverbs 2, 3.。
"Everyone shall so exercise himself in reading the scripture twice a day,。
and he shall be ready to give such an account of his proficiency therein,。
both in theoretical observations and language and logic,。
and in practical spiritual truth, as his tutor shall require according to his ability.。
Seeing the entrance of the word giveth light, it giveth understanding to the simple."。
So that used to be, um, bummer, because I think they could have done more better or whatnot.。
So for those who are like, "Oh, I wish God would speak to me.。
I don't know what God's will is for me.。
Oh, man, I'm so lost.。
I got to find myself."。
There's the Bible.。
I can buy you a copy if you don't have one.。
Lit, we're at number five.。
Keep it clean.。
He says, yeah, Paul gives this illustration of like these vessels, right?。
And vessels are super important back in the day, and it still is, right?。
You wouldn't drink from something that has a cockroach in it.。
That would be nasty.。
And so same with our bodies, same with our bodies.。
We are, our bodies are our temples, for those who are familiar, right?。
That our bodies should be a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,。
which is a place for worship, Romans chapter 12.。
"Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's spirit dwells on you, in you?。
If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy you, for God's temple is holy and you are the temple."。
It's 1 Corinthians chapter 3.。
And so, oh, lit.。
So C.S. Lewis gives this like incredible, it's like a quote that I'm about to butcher,。
but it's about like if you had glasses, do you have some glasses?。
Glasses, glasses, right?。
I usually wear glasses.。
For your approval, I wore contacts, right?。
If we put, if we put lipstick on glasses, she's gonna do it, she's gonna do it, she's gonna do it.。
And, but, like, how are you, everything, everything you see through this is gonna be like so blurred.。
I can't work wearing these glasses.。
And let me read you his quote.。
Oh, I lost the quote, but basically, our bodies are like eyeglasses.。
If we're not clean, then our vision of God would be blurred.。
Amen, amen.。
All right, let me put this away.。
Cool.。
Yeah, and then, of course, the other illustration is that I'm wearing like a white T-shirt, right?。
Like, we gotta keep things clean.。
And God gives us this like incredible strategy, right?。
He's like, bro, you gotta flee, don't fight.。
Like, if I, let's say, Moe versus, T-shirt versus Sharpie, who's gonna win?。
Who's gonna win?。
Who's gonna win?。
We know this.。
We know this.。
Is she gonna do it?。
Is she gonna do it?。
Is she gonna do it?。
No, she's not.。
'Cause I'm cheap.。
And so, it's so important because when we get defiled, we are not ready for every good work.。
We are a dishonorable vessel, and we can't be used by God.。
God will not use you.。
God, in fact, will destroy you.。
And so, yeah, don't put lipstick on your glasses and don't put Sharpies in your shirt.。
And so, I love how God knows us so well.。
He gives us two strategies, right?。
He knows that we are weak.。
So, he's like, dude, don't even bother fighting it.。
Just flee.。
Just leave.。
And then, the second thing is that he calls.。
He asks us to be in community with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart, right?。
So, you gotta be in community with wholesome people.。
Like, first row are like my buddies, right?。
If I struggle, I'm just like calling on them, and they're wholesome people.。
But if I just hang out with like weirdos who are like doing drugs all the time, then that ain't good.。
I'm just gonna be a weirdo who does drugs all the time, and that's not good.。
And so, yes.。
So, do that.。
Flee, don't fight.。
We don't have time for this slide.。
Yeah, and you want to set yourself up for success.。
Precisely when I was studying abroad in Jerusalem, there were a bunch of weirdos who like to do drugs at night and like whatever.。
And study abroad, you know, it's a pretty few kids, right?。
You get like what, 10, 12 people in your class, and it's hard to like have wholesome people.。
I don't think anybody was Christian in the group.。
And so, it was really hard because people were like, "Oh my gosh, let's go to Tel Aviv."。
And Tel Aviv is like very liberal.。
Let's just put it that way.。
And it's the most liberal place you can find in the Middle East.。
And my friend Chris told me about this place, which is called Sakat Halal, and it's on number five, Ain Rogel Street.。
And it's lit.。
It's a 24-hour prayer house.。
And every time that I'm just tempted to go to Tel Aviv and party with these people, I go here.。
And it's great because it's open 24 hours, and it's beautiful, and there's always people praying.。
And so, you really want to set yourself up for success, right?。
If, I don't know, I used to love reading Murakami novels, Haruki Murakami.。
He's great.。
And then he started writing something about like some super sexual weird thing, and I was like, "Bro, I can't read anymore."。
So, just don't read.。
I switched to nonfiction.。
It's fine.。
Like, so, I think you need to set yourself up for success.。
Don't, like, I think Jesus summarizes it really well.。
He says, "If your hand or foot causes you to stumble, cut it off and throw it from you.。
It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than have two hands or feet and be casted into eternal fire."。
Matthew 18.8.。
So, yeah, flee.。
Don't fight.。
Find some good buddies.。
Finally, oh, we're doing great on time.。
Choose kind.。
Choose kind.。
I love being right for those who know me.。
Like, I'm the most competitive person in games.。
I get so salty when I lose.。
I literally just can't handle, because I'm just so, like, my identity is so much tied up to, like, surpassing other people.。
And so, that when I don't surpass people, like, I lost to my mom in arm wrestling and ping pong.。
She's the blue person right there.。
And it wounds my pride.。
So, I call up my friend Chris.。
I'm like, "Hey, do you know how to play ping pong?"。
And he's like, "No."。
And I'm like, "Great, let's play."。
And then I won.。
And that's how I sort of fill my self-esteem.。
And, yeah.。
So, right, this is super hard, right?。
I'm the most quarrelsome person I know.。
And he's saying, like, the Lord's servant is not quarrelsome.。
You must be kind to everyone.。
And that's so hard.。
I can't even be kind to the people who are kind to me.。
It's just the hardest.。
Able to teach, I do not accept constructive criticism.。
Thank you.。
And, yeah.。
And in face of evil, I just rage.。
And on the chance that I get to correct opponents, I'm like, "It's payback time, baby."。
So, it's just, like, straight-up vengeance.。
And my helper came today to support me.。
And she could testify how terrible of a person I am, just in my rage.。
She's the receiver of most of my rage.。
And so, if God can use a person like me, he definitely can use a people like you.。
And so, just in closing, none of us, none of us, all right, just be nice.。
Let's go back to this.。
Sorry.。
Sorry, I'm almost there.。
In closing, I want to say that none of us are able to achieve any of this apart from the Father,。
apart from constant prayer.。
And I hope you see this chapter not necessarily as an instruction manual or a Christianized self-help theory,。
to-do list, BuzzFeed, blah, blah, blah.。
But it's actually a wonderful gift of wisdom from God on how we ought to approach work in life.。
And so, yeah, so when you think about working for God, many of us think, go straight to, like, missionaries.。
James, I don't know, John Snowgrove.。
But that's not biblical.。
The author of Timothy was a, Paul was a tentmaker.。
Joseph, Jesus' father, was a carpenter.。
Luke was a doctor.。
Matthew was a tax collector.。
Boaz was a farmer.。
Uriah was a soldier.。
David was a shepherd musician.。
And King Deborah is the only female judge in the Old Testament.。
And then there's this guy called Truett Cathy, who's the founder of Chick-fil-A.。
Anybody know the vision of Chick-fil-A?。
It's so lit.。
I'm going to read it to you.。
It's so lit.。
The vision statement for Chick-fil-A, which is on their website right now, reads,。
"To glorify God by being a faithful steward of all that is entrusted to us,。
to have a positive influence on all who come in contact with Chick-fil-A."。
So for those who are like, "I can't do this.。
I work in a large corporate.。
Everybody's so pagan."。
Yo, you got no excuses because Chick-fil-A did it.。
So in closing, I want to rap for you guys if we have time.。
Do we have time?。
Yes?。
Possibly?。
Okay, lit.。
All right.。
First, I need...。
Barbie, can you pass me that water?。
Oh, so lit.。
Okay, okay.。
This is going to be dope.。
And also to illustrate just the greatness of the one-finger bottle twist.。
No, not.。
The greatness of the collective.。
Why there is no such thing as a one-person church.。
I want to show you.。
This is an app that I use to teach my students.。
But now I'm going to use it to teach you why the collective is great.。
Oh my, I closed the...。
I closed it.。
Barbie, I closed it.。
Where is it?。
Screenshots.。
Screenshots.。
I got you.。
I got you.。
Desktop.。
Desktop.。
I'm so nervous.。
My heart's pounding.。
It ain't working.。
Desktop.。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
Litty.。
Hell yeah.。
Cool.。
It's the devil.。
I know, I know, I know.。
Dude, I teach technology.。
You're making me look so bad.。
Some of my students are right here.。
Sorry.。
All right, we good, we good.。
Okay.。
So, right.。
So, this is like the church.。
So, we're going to throw on some beats.。
Is there sound?。
Oh, there's no sound yet.。
I'm going to make it sound.。
Yeah.。
Please, please have sound.。
Oh, okay.。
Right, it's kind of boring.。
But let's get this.。
What?。
Right.。
Let me pick some.。
Right.。
So, this is like the church.。
They all like, if we're just like alone, it's not going to be very good.。
So, I'm going to pick some folks.。
All right, I'm going to get to it.。
Hold up, hold up.。
Hold up, hold up.。
Ooh, look at that bass.。
Oh.。
Hey.。
Right.。
Okay.。
Okay, it's happening.。
It's happening.。
Oh, man.。
It's moving.。
Okay.。
So, it's a remix of 2 Timothy 2 that I wrote.。
Hope you remember it.。
And I wrote it to the, anybody know what these chords are to?。
It's actually to Tones and I's Dance Monkey.。
So, I wrote it to that.。
All right, great.。
Oh, lit.。
Wait, wait for it.。
Hey.。
Oh, my God, the world can't satisfy.。
Take my life, my Lord, and make it multiply.。
You know my heart, my passion, my desires.。
Now I beg you take the plank out of my eyes.。
Oh, I know you love me, love me all the time.。
And oh my, you even call me your child.。
You make me, make me, make me want to be holier.。
Now I try, now I try to make you proud.。
Timothy, Timothy, Timothy, don't you forget.。
You gotta fight like a soldier and run like a victor for the sake of the elect.。
Timothy, Timothy, Timothy, don't you sweat.。
I might die in this prison, but Jesus is risen from the dead.。
To live, you gotta die. To live, you gotta die.。
Seek first and find. Suffer and rise.。
Flee desires and focus on the prize 'cause the prize is rooted in Jesus Christ.。
Soak up his grace. It's okay to lose faith, to lose the right race.。
It ain't about how much you make, the cars you chase, the wine you taste,。
or what's on your birthday cake.。
It's about our holy father and his faith.。
When we turned him away, he remained faithful and gave his only son to repay our godless days.。
Instead of peace, love, and faith, we're filled with lust, lies, and shame,。
obsessing over ourselves instead of spending time to pray.。
It could have been game over, but he gave us a chance to be holy forever。
and literally became the lamb that was slain.。
Hey, real talk. Jesus is the only way.。
Oh, oh, hold up. Hold up.。
Oh, we need this guy. Yeah.。
What?。
Oh my god, the world can't satisfy.。
Take my life, my lord, for it is yours, not mine.。
Let us pray, brothers.。
Oh, oh, oh. Let us pray. Let's pray. Let us pray.。
You wanna pray? I pray? I pray.。
Okay, lit. I get to pray. That's great.。
All right, clap for Jesus.。
Lord, thank you so much for this time that I got to share to Timothy 2.。
Thank you that you are a God, a boss that does have clear expectations.。
You've given us the word that you don't get mad。
because we don't understand your expectations,。
but you've clearly outlined it for us, Lord,。
that you've called us to make disciples, to train the trainers, Lord,。
that you've called us to study scripture, to endure, to enjoy, to suffer, Lord,。
to flee from desires and to be nice to everybody.。
Father God, we love you. We thank you.。
I just pray that just tonight that we would not only be hearers of the word, Lord,。
that we would be doers of the word.。
For faith without works is dead.。
And so, Lord, I just pray that our works would make our faith perfect,。
as James, the real James, Bible James says.。
And we thank you, we love you in your precious name. Amen.。
Litty.。
