One of my favourite people in the whole world is our own Paul Roth.。
I love him.。
I think Mel does as well.。
But in case you haven't noticed, I am British.。
And he is Australian.。
Now there has always been a rivalry between the two nations, especially on the sports。
field.。
And society, what society has done, has developed stereotypes of the people from both nations.。
Now I want to say that Paul and I do not fit these stereotypes.。
But many Aussies consider Brits to be rather stuck up.。
And quite frankly, boring.。
On the other hand, Brits consider Aussies to be crude.。
And dare I say, a little bit simple.。
If I was looking for evidence, which I am not, the following news report, which I read。
this week, seemed to support this argument.。
In Brisbane, Australia, a rather silly thief was busted attempting to steal an in-car GPS。
system from a car that was equipped with an internal camera.。
If that fact alone is not enough, it turns out that the would-be car thief, being a true。
blue Aussie, had his name and date of birth tattooed on his neck, which was clearly visible。
to the cameras in the car.。
The hapless thief was arrested and jailed for seven months.。
I've called this talk Stop Thief.。
And in a sentence, the message of Ecclesiastes chapter 5 is, "Don't rob God, don't rob others,。
and don't rob yourself."。
Let me repeat them.。
Don't rob God, don't rob others, don't rob yourself.。
I want to take them one at a time.。
Let's look at the first one.。
Don't rob God.。
It starts off, verse 1, "Guard your steps when you go to the house of God."。
You may remember in the first four chapters of Ecclesiastes, the preacher has visited。
the courtroom, the marketplace, the highway, and the palace.。
And now he turns his attention to the temple.。
Now, the temple was a sacred place to the ancient Israelites.。
It was the nerve center of religious activity.。
It was the symbol of the presence of God in the lives of the people of Israel.。
But the preacher noted that worshippers were not being sincere in their religious practices.。
They were taking the house of God for granted.。
We, yes, us, would do well to mark these words.。
Guard your step.。
I have a question.。
How do we prepare for coming to worship?。
Are we running late, doing WhatsApp messages as we walk up the escalator?。
Is our mind even now on where we're going for dinner afterwards?。
I mean, should we go to Shake Shack or Five Guys?。
I remember going to church on Sunday morning with our kids when they were small.。
Our church was in Pop Falam, and we lived on the island south side.。
It was often like World War III even to get them into the car.。
And often the constant banter continued all the way to the church car park and even up。
to the door on the fourth floor.。
Then in a flash, the guitar and the drums started, and we were like, "Bless the Lord。
our God."。
Right?。
You know, my friends, the worship of God is the highest ministry of the church and must。
come from devoted hearts and yielded wills.。
Scottish Baptist minister Alexander McLaren wrote this, "Fruitful and acceptable worship。
begins before it begins."。
I say this, we guard our steps by preparing our hearts.。
Can I say it again?。
We guard our steps by preparing our hearts.。
Let's read on.。
To draw near to listen is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools, for they do not know。
that they are doing evil.。
At that time, the time of Ecclesiastes, the time it was written, there was a prescribed。
system of temporal sacrifices.。
What happened was you sin, you sacrifice.。
You sin, you sacrifice.。
It was an endless circle, in fact.。
That circle was broken by Jesus.。
He fulfilled all sacrifices in his death on the cross.。
Thank goodness we don't have to come to church these days with a sheep or goat to be sacrificed.。
I mean, can you imagine coming up the escalator or worse still on the MTR?。
But if you study the Bible carefully, you will see that today, among other things, we。
are called to sacrifice.。
We are called to sacrifice to freely offer our bodies, our money, our possessions, and。
to always bring a sacrifice of praise.。
And look at that verse closely.。
To draw near to listen is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools.。
Other versions say, be more ready to hear.。
We are going to be reminded quite a bit in this chapter that we have two of these and。
one of these.。
And the caution is to use them in that proportion rather than the other way around.。
On the subject of sacrifice, you remember the story of Saul when God rejected him as。
king.。
Saul protested how much he had done for God.。
And Samuel told him this in 1 Samuel 15, "Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings。
and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord?。
Behold, to obey is better than to sacrifice."。
To obey is better than to sacrifice and to listen than the fat of rams.。
Sacrifices are not a substitute for obedience.。
And Ecclesiastes, in calling it the sacrifice of fools, tells us that only a fool could。
possibly think he can deceive God.。
Our mouths come in for some even more harsh treatment in the following verses.。
Listen to this.。
Do not be rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God,。
for God is in heaven and you're on earth.。
Therefore let your words be few.。
For a dream comes with much business and a fool's voice with many words.。
My friends, prayer is a serious business.。
When we pray, we should watch out for hasty words and dare I say, too many words.。
Now I'm speaking to myself here.。
Me and my big mouth often land me in deep water.。
The secret of acceptable prayer is a prepared heart.。
Let me say that again.。
The secret of acceptable prayer is a prepared heart.。
John Bunyan, the author of Pilgrim's Progress said this, "In prayer, it is better to have。
heart without words than words without heart."。
In chapter five, the preacher rightly describes the human tendency to speak without thinking。
before God and others.。
He reminds us, "It is foolish to speak too much and hear too little in God's presence."。
I love verse three, "For a dream comes with much business and a fool's voice with many。
words."。
The thought in this line is well represented by the living Bible paraphrase.。
I love this.。
I'll put it on the screen.。
Just being too busy gives you nightmares.。
So being a fool makes you a blabbermouth.。
I'm talking to myself, I tell you.。
One of my favorite authors, N.T. Wright says this, "As personal and business cares produce。
dreams which are unsubstantial things, so many words produce foolish and empty prayers."。
Previous author and hymn writer, J. Edwin Orr, used to advise brief, earnest prayers,。
particularly in prayer meetings.。
He said this, "When one prays in a prayer meeting, for his first three minutes, everyone's。
praying with him.。
Should he pray for a second three minutes, everyone prays for him.。
Should he pray for a further three minutes, everyone's praying against him."。
Charles Spurgeon said, "It is not the length of our prayers, but the strength of our prayers。
that makes the difference."。
Now speaking as a fully paid up, represented, card carrying member of the Big Mouth Brigade,。
one of our major problems of talking too much is to make rash promises.。
And to put the next few verses into context, I need to tell you that God did not require。
his people to make vows to be accepted by him.。
But the opportunity to do so was there if they wanted to.。
So let's read on.。
When you make a vow before God, do not delay in paying it, for he has no pleasure in fools.。
Pay what you vow.。
It is better that you should not vow, that you should vow and not pay.。
Let not your mouth lead you into sin, and do not say before the messenger, "It was a。
mistake."。
Why should God be angry at your voice and destroy the work of your hands?。
For when dreams increase and words grow many, there is vanity.。
But God is the one you must fear.。
I believe a commonly overlooked and unappreciated sin amongst God's people is the sin of broken。
vows.。
Promising things to God and failing to live up to the vow.。
Those who honour God will not be quick to make vows to God, will be serious about fulfilling。
the vows they've made, and will regard broken vows as sins to be confessed and be to repented。
of.。
Verse 6 tells us, "Let not your mouth lead you into sin, and do not say before the messenger,。
'It was a mistake.'"。
The preacher rightly observed that it was important for God's people to regard their。
failure to keep vows as a serious matter, and to not regard the failure to keep them。
as simply an error.。
So many times in my pastoral ministry, have I come across people, usually people who come。
for healing or material blessing, who said, "If God does such and such a thing, I promise。
I'm going to do this thing.。
I promise I'm going to give to this cause.。
I'm going to be a missionary."。
But invariably these vows are empty.。
Their worship is not serious, so the vows have no value.。
Church, we rob God when we make a vow with no intention of keeping it.。
We also rob God when we delay keeping it, hoping to get out of it.。
But what we don't realise is when we rob God of worship and honour due to Him, we are depriving。
ourselves of the spiritual blessings He bestows.。
My friends, don't rob God.。
And then don't rob others.。
Let's read this.。
If you see in a province the oppression of the poor and the violation of justice and。
righteousness, do not be amazed at the matter, for the high official is watched by a higher,。
and yet there are higher ones over them.。
But this is game for a land in every way, a king committed to cultivated fields.。
So we're moving now from the temple back to the city hall.。
And just as in chapters three and four, we witness the oppression of the poor and the。
violation of justice and righteousness.。
We're told to not be surprised at this.。
It was a commentary of a corrupt system.。
Those in power helping themselves and not serving the people.。
Moses had condemned these practices in Leviticus and Deuteronomy.。
And yet, 3000 years later, it might well be a picture of much of 21st century society.。
In Hong Kong, we have the biggest, rich, poor gap in the developed world.。
The poor, the asylum seekers, domestic helpers, and others don't seem to get a fair rub of。
the green.。
The living Bible tells us the matter is lost in red tape and bureaucracy.。
The temptation to this honest game is always there with man.。
It was once said that power tends to corrupt.。
Absolute power corrupts absolutely.。
But interestingly, chapter five reserves its biggest chunk of verses, not on robbing God,。
not on robbing others, but the instruction to do not rob yourself.。
And guys, we're visiting old territory here.。
Each week, we've talked about the futility, the Havel.。
Johnny covered the futility of wealth in chapter two.。
And some of the ideas are repeated here.。
But what the writer does here is to demolish some of the myths about wealth.。
They are ones that are so commonly held here in Hong Kong, that if, let's suggest we do。
a street survey on Monday morning, on the bridge going across to Exchange Square.。
These are the very answers we would probably get from most people.。
What they would tell you is this, wealth brings satisfaction.。
Wealth solves every problem.。
Wealth brings peace of mind.。
And wealth brings security.。
They are the very things that many Hong Kong parents are hammering into our kids as they。
push them to get better grades, for a better college, for a better job, for better pay,。
for a better spouse and a better life.。
It's the society we live in and operate in.。
But this chapter shows us they are only illusions.。
And those who believe them, subscribe to them are only robbing themselves.。
They are robbing themselves of the blessing that God has for them.。
And I don't want any of us to be sucked in by these illusions.。
And the first one is this, wealth brings satisfaction.。
Money is a God in Hong Kong.。
Full stop.。
People dream about it, are obsessed with getting it and believe it will satisfy them.。
I Googled how to make a million dollars overnight.。
US dollars, of course, right?。
I discovered 5 million websites telling me how to do it.。
What they don't tell you is this, when you get that million, you don't stop.。
You want another, add another.。
The appetite is created, but not satisfied.。
Read this, he who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves wealth。
with his income.。
This is also vanity.。
The human heart is made in such a way, we are wired in such a way that it could only。
be satisfied by God.。
British Old Testament scholar Derek Kidner wrote this, if anything is worse than the。
addiction that money brings, it is the emptiness it leaves.。
Man with eternity in his heart needs better nourishment than this.。
Which moves us on to the second illusion, wealth solves every problem.。
The writer goes on to say that wealth, rather than solving all problems, brings its own。
set of problems.。
Look at this, when goods increase, they increase who eat them.。
And what advantage has the owner but to see them with his eyes?。
I got to tell you, the wealthy have no shortage of people who are willing to spend their money。
for them.。
Wealth is a people magnet.。
It attracts human parasites.。
Remember the portugal sun, when he had money, he had no shortage of Facebook friends.。
When the money disappeared, so did the Facebook friends.。
The truth is that wealth often creates new problems that you did not know existed before.。
I love what John Wesley, who founded the Methodist Church said to put in perspective.。
He said, "Make all you can, save all you can, give all you can."。
I remember when it was announced I was quitting my job to be senior pastor of the Vine.。
At that time, the Vine was only a small church and wasn't able to afford very much.。
I lost count of the well-meaning people who said, "I know you love your church, but I。
also know you love your job.。
Why not work for another 10 years or so, save some money, and then go to work for the church?"。
But God showed Sandra and I a picture.。
I want to share it with you.。
We were standing on the back of a lorry, a van.。
The back was filled with gold.。
And what we were doing, we were shoveling the gold.。
We were giving away as quick as we can, but the pile of gold was not going down.。
And that has been our testimony these past 20 years.。
The third illusion is that wealth brings peace of mind.。
Verse 12 highlights yet another problem that wealth can bring.。
Sweet is the sleep of a labourer, whether he eats little or much, but the full stomach。
of the rich will not let him sleep.。
They say there is no better sleeping pill than an honest day's work.。
Wealth brings with it baggage that tends to get in the way of a good night's sleep, anxiety。
concerning keeping the riches, worries about being robbed, constantly thinking about how。
to get more riches.。
I could go on, but I'll tell you about J.D. Rockefeller.。
He was the world's first billionaire.。
When he became a billionaire, there wasn't another billionaire on planet Earth.。
At 53 years of age, he became very sick.。
He couldn't sleep.。
He'd lost weight.。
He had insomnia.。
And all he could eat was crackers and milk because of his many ulcers.。
His health continued to decline.。
His life was falling apart.。
For some reason around that age, he decided to start giving money away.。
He became a philanthropist.。
He built hospitals and orphanages and gave money away.。
He began to sleep.。
He gained weight and his health improved.。
He died at 98 years of age.。
My friends, money.。
Money can buy tangible assets.。
Things that you can touch are tangible assets.。
Money can only buy this.。
You can't buy intangible assets.。
Things that you can't touch are intangible assets.。
Money can't buy these assets.。
And peace of mind is an intangible asset.。
You can't touch it.。
You can just feel it.。
And I need to tell you that peace of mind comes from God.。
It's a gift.。
You can't buy peace of mind.。
And the last illusion is this.。
Wealth brings security.。
There is a grievous evil that I've seen under the sun.。
Riches were kept by the owner to his hurt.。
And those riches were lost in a bad venture.。
And he is a father of a son and he has nothing in his hand.。
As he came from his mother's womb, he should go again naked as he came and should take。
nothing for his toil that he may carry away in his hand.。
This is also a grievous evil.。
Just as he came, so he shall go.。
What gain is there to him who toils for the wind?。
Moreover, all his days he eats in darkness with much vexation and sickness and anger.。
I want to focus on the expression in verse 13.。
Riches were kept by their owner to his hurt.。
This speaks of the person who sees his securities in the number of noughts in his bank balance.。
It paints a picture of him holding on to his wealth with a tight clenched fist.。
The hurt spoken about in verse 13 may have been caused by a number of things.。
He may make an improper use of his riches and lose his health by them.。
Or he may join an unfortunate business partnership and lose everything.。
Or his riches may excite the desire of a robber who may steal his goods or even take away。
his life.。
Or he may leave them to the next generation who turn out to be recklessly extravagant。
or wasteful in the use of resources, spends the whole, ruins both his body and soul.。
I've seen that time and time again.。
The preacher reminds us that the person who dies with the most money still dies.。
As he came from his mother womb, he should go again naked as he came.。
He shall take nothing from his toil that he may carry away in his hand.。
This is not a great advert for wealth.。
Proverbs 3.26 says, "For the Lord is your security.。
He will keep your foot from being caught in a trap."。
The New Testament gives a more hopeful picture, taking us beyond the preachers under the sun。
premise and telling us that we can lay up treasure.。
Oh yes, we can.。
We can lay up treasure in heaven.。
You can't take your wealth with you when you die, but you can send it on ahead by generous。
giving to God's work.。
My friends, don't rob yourself.。
But I wanted to finish, not with the negatives of don't do this and don't do that.。
I wanted to finish on a positive note and the writer obliges with his final three verses.。
I want to take a look at them as I encourage you to seek first his kingdom.。
This is surely the key that unlocks the Ecclesiastes door.。
Let's roll the clock forward a thousand years or so.。
In the middle of his famous sermon on the Mount, Jesus turns to his followers and in。
a complete answer to Ecclesiastes chapter five says, "Don't be anxious.。
Don't worry about what you eat.。
Don't worry about what you wear."。
And he says this, Matthew 6.33, "But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness."。
And all these things will be added to you.。
American singer Karen Lafferty wrote the song, "Seek Ye First the Kingdom of God" in 1974.。
And Sandra and I remember her coming to a church in our village in the UK, a small church。
in the early '80s.。
It has become one of the most sung Christian songs of the past 50 years and has stuck with。
me ever since.。
We'll sing it in a few moments, but this is what the preacher said.。
"Behold, what I've seen to be good and fitting is to eat and drink and find enjoyment in。
all the toil which one tore under the sun the few days of his life that God has given。
him, for this is his lot.。
But also to whom God has given wealth and possessions and power to enjoy them and to。
accept his lot and rejoice in his toil, this is the gift of God.。
For he will not much remember the days of his life because God keeps him occupied with。
joy in his heart."。
Though the preacher knew that riches did not bring true meaning to life.。
He was no fool.。
He understood it was better to have wealth than not to have it.。
And under the sun, one should enjoy both wealth and the capacity to enjoy it as a gift of。
God.。
The important thing for us is that we love the Lord, accept the lot he bestows us, he。
assigns us, and enjoy the blessings that he graciously bestowed.。
I started off by saying the title "Stop Fief."。
There's two ways you can look at this.。
Either the fest happened, you say, "Stop Fief," and the police come, or before it happens。
we say, "Stop Fief."。
If I wanted to stop a theft in your home, I'd probably install a burger alarm.。
If I wanted to stop a theft in your car, I'd probably install the camera we mentioned earlier.。
But in that vein, I want to stop theft in your life.。
So I'm going to install a safe, and to do that I'm going to use the letters SAFE.。
Let me summarise as I conclude my message, how to stay safe.。
S, serve your Lord.。
Invest in his kingdom's work.。
Be content with Jesus.。
He's enough.。
We sing it, don't we?。
Christ is enough for me.。
A, accept your lot.。
Accept your station.。
The grass is not always greener on the other side.。
Be content with what you've been given.。
F, fulfil your labour.。
Work, be steady.。
Do a good day's work, and it's a good witness to your boss and your co-workers.。
And you can invite them on Alpha as well.。
And E, enjoy your life.。
Don't get caught up in the greed trap.。
Laugh more.。
Lighten up.。
Relax.。
Ecclesiastes 5 tells us this.。
If we focus more on the gifts than the giver, we are guilty of idolatry.。
If we accept his gifts, but complain about them, we are guilty of ingratitude.。
If we hoard his gifts and won't share them, we are guilty of indulgence.。
But if we yield to his will and use what he gives us for his glory, then we can enjoy。
life and be satisfied.。
My friends, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things。
will be added unto you.。
Hallelujah.。
Amen.。
