I had studied with the Bacca Graduate University program under my esteemed mentor and professor,。
the late Ray Bacca.。
Can you imagine how excited I was to receive a gift from none other than Ray himself?。
I was told that all Bacca graduates, and that would have included our beloved Pastor Lam,。
received the exact same gift.。
It was done up in a beautiful package with a ribbon.。
I was so excited.。
I was wondering what it was.。
I couldn't wait to open it.。
My mind was racing with possibilities.。
Can you imagine how I felt when I finally opened it and I found this?。
A white towel.。
A white towel, and can I say, not wishing to be rude or ungrateful, more like mini-so。
than Lane Crawford.。
But the point was, and the whole point of this series, Dr. Ray wanted to remind each。
of his graduates that the doctoral degree was only of any value if it led to the metaphorical。
washing of feet.。
That saved people, served people.。
We just heard John 13, Bonnie read it so beautifully.。
Jesus said, "When he had washed their feet and put it on its outer garments and resumed。
his place, he said to them, 'Do you understand what I've done to you?。
You call me teacher and Lord and you are right, for I am.。
If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, then you ought to wash one another's。
feet.'"。
Let me put this into context.。
This is Thursday in Passion Week.。
It's the day before Good Friday.。
It was just before the Last Supper.。
Jesus knew that he would die tomorrow.。
We read this when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the。
Father.。
It leads me to a question.。
What would you do?。
What would we do?。
If we knew tomorrow we would die?。
And to boot, die a barbaric, torturous death.。
A death that was reserved for common murderers.。
I'll tell you what Jesus did.。
After Jesus, who had committed no crime, he began to wash their feet.。
Peter's reaction may have been the same as ours.。
This is bizarre.。
We read it.。
He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?"。
Now we should, however, remember that foot washing was not an alien or strange action。
at all.。
In point of fact, it was a much needed service for those who had traveled the dusty and dirty。
roads where Jesus and his followers traveled daily.。
No one wore socks because there were none.。
It was actually an act of honor on behalf of a host to wash a guest's feet.。
And it was a sign of dishonor not to do so.。
It was not uncommon for wives to wash their husband's feet and for children to do the。
same for their parents.。
Peter, understandably perhaps, was not at all happy with Jesus, his master, becoming。
the servant of anyone, especially the disciples.。
Peter just did not feel that Jesus should act like a servant, but especially not as。
Peter's servant.。
It was unthinkable.。
I love Peter.。
As usual, he speaks what he feels without giving it a whole lot of thought.。
So Jesus tells him to his face that he has to wash Peter's feet.。
Peter, however, remains skeptical and really is not in line with Jesus's thought process.。
Continuing to miss the point, Peter asked Jesus to also wash his hands and his head。
and his feet.。
Jesus replied that a person who is already clean does not need to wash his whole body,。
have it washed again, but their feet would still need attention.。
Let me explain that.。
Jesus is saying, "When you first come to me, you are bathed.。
You are clean all over."。
We symbolise that, don't we, in baptism.。
This is what the Bible calls justification by faith.。
It is a washing away of all the guilt and sin of past life, present and future.。
But as you walk through life, Jesus knows that your feet will be defiled during your。
walk and that needs to be washed away.。
Then Jesus goes on to say that not everyone who was with him was clean.。
He was, of course, referring to Judas.。
Now you will probably be aware that Jesus was setting an example so that we, yes, us,。
would wash the feet of others.。
Now up until this point in John's Gospel, we have seen Jesus doing work that no one。
had ever done before.。
We talked about a couple of weeks ago, making water into wine, giving sight to the blind,。
raising the dead.。
But now he does what almost anyone can do, but what few want to do.。
Can I say that again?。
Now Jesus does what almost anyone can do, but what few want to do.。
He washes feet.。
The King does the work of a slave.。
And in doing so, Jesus brings to a head a question, one that has dominated the Serving。
the Community series.。
To what extent is Jesus' work an example for our own work?。
It would be easy to answer, not at all.。
After all, none of us are the Lord.。
None of us die for the sins of the world.。
But when he washes the disciples' feet, Jesus explicitly tells them, and by extension, is。
telling us tonight, that we are to follow his example.。
Let's read it, I'll repeat it.。
If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you ought to wash one another's。
feet.。
Jesus is an example we are meant to follow, so far as we are able.。
The attitude of humble service should accompany all we do.。
If a CEO walks the trading floor in an investment bank, it should be as if he is coming to wash。
the dealer's feet.。
So too, the hotel room attendant should clean the bathroom floors as if being there to wash。
the hotel guests' feet.。
This is not so much a matter of action, but attitude.。
I mean, both the CEO and the hotel room attendant can probably serve people better through activities。
other than washing feet, even if the employees or the customers were willing to have it done.。
But they should see themselves as performing humble service.。
Jesus, the Spirit-filled teacher who reigns over the entire universe, deliberately performs。
a concrete act of lowly service to demonstrate what ought to be the habitual attitude of。
his people.。
By doing so, he both demonstrates to his followers and demands from his followers humble acts。
of service.。
Why?。
Because doing so makes us realize that godly work is performed for the benefit of others,。
not merely for the fulfillment of ourselves.。
I said at the beginning of the subject of this sermon was serving blesses me.。
Now I want to concentrate on verse 17.。
I'll read it again.。
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.。
Let me repeat that.。
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.。
You will be blessed.。
Why?。
Because serving ensures that our life mission is on the right track.。
Can I just say that?。
The byproduct on being on right mission is a blessed life.。
Now read my lips.。
Church is not a bless me club.。
You know, don't we pray something like this, "Lord, bless me with a full bank account,。
a full stomach, the job, the relationship, the life I've always craved for."。
I need to tell you tonight, seeking a blessed life is not your mission.。
What your mission is this, two verses in Matthew.。
Your mission is you are the light of the world.。
Your mission is let your light shine before men.。
We are to glorify God in the way we live our lives.。
Your mission is not to seek happiness for happiness sake.。
I need to tell you and tell you again, you are blessed when you are on the right mission.。
If anyone didn't need to humble himself to wash the feet of a bunch of fishermen, it。
was Jesus.。
But because he knew he was the Lord of the universe and because he was not worried about。
his self image, he was able to show his love in humble service.。
He took up the towel and basin and stooped to serve.。
What an example for all of us.。
You see, foot washing is not about foot washing.。
Can I say it again?。
Foot washing is not about foot washing.。
It's about serving others at personal sacrifice.。
It's about humbling ourselves when we don't have to because we don't have to.。
It can start very simply.。
It can start by sending someone an encouraging note.。
I've encouraged this before.。
Send someone an encouraging note.。
It's a gift we can give that costs us nothing.。
Pick a friend, pick a family member each week and send an email, a text, a handwritten note。
telling that person you're proud of them, you're praying for them and that you're here。
to help.。
That's washing feet.。
It can start by watching the children of a neighbour who has good reasons for needing。
to get out of the apartment.。
It can start by listening to a colleague or a friend who needs to talk when you don't。
have time to listen.。
It's giving ourselves when we don't have to.。
It's walking and talking with Jesus on the road that we call life.。
It's about sharing a meal.。
It's about standing at the foot of a cross and in faithfulness standing by an empty tomb。
as the darkness is lifted and life becomes hopeful once again.。
When I said that last sentence, my mind invariably turned to Mary, the mother of Jesus.。
Can I be honest tonight?。
I, given that it's Mother's Day tomorrow, I was looking for an interchange to switch。
the direction of this sermon towards mothers and Mary responds perfectly.。
Scripture is full of mothers who demonstrate Christlike, servant-hearted qualities and。
Mary tops the list.。
Mary said, "Behold, I am the servant of the Lord.。
Let it be to me according to your word."。
Wow.。
Wouldn't this be a great prayer for us all to pray?。
Let's look at the context of these words.。
Mary is without doubt the most well-known and revered woman in the Bible.。
The scriptures explain that God chose Mary to be Jesus' mother, granting her one of the。
most important and transformational roles in human history.。
Mary questioned how pregnancy was possible and she was initially troubled by the angel's。
appearance.。
But once she learned of the reason for Gabriel's visit, she responded to the life-changing。
news with a heart that was fully open to God's will.。
"Behold, I am the servant of the Lord.。
Let it be me according to your word."。
And she broke out in song.。
She breaks into a song which we now know as the Magnificat.。
And it starts like this.。
"My soul magnifies the Lord.。
My spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, for he has looked on the humble estate of his。
servant.。
For behold, from now on, all generations will call me blessed.。
For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name."。
Mary was blessed because she was on the right mission.。
If Mary is almost certainly the most famous mother in the Bible, I want to look at another。
mother of whom there are just 12 verses in the book of Exodus.。
I was privileged to hear a sermon a few weeks ago about Moses' mother, Jochebed, a woman。
who effectively linked serving on one hand and blessing on the other.。
The Bible tells us that Jochebed went above and beyond to save her little boy's life.。
The background is at the time of Moses' birth.。
The Egyptian pharaoh demanded that midwives kill every Hebrew boy born in Egypt, something。
done in an effort to control the Hebrew population.。
We read in Exodus 1 that the Hebrew midwives refused to participate in the infanticide。
and deceived Pharaoh so they could avoid killing the baby boys.。
Read this.。
"But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let。
the male children live.。
So the king of Egypt called the midwives and said to them, 'What have you done?。
Why have you let the male children live?'。
The midwives said to Pharaoh, 'Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women.。
They are vigorous and they give birth before the midwife comes to them.'"。
And what Moses' mother Jochebed did, she hid Moses in a basket of bulrushes and set him。
afloat in the Nile River to preserve his life.。
Even Pharaoh's own daughter disobeyed the decree when she found Moses in the basket。
and she took pity on him, adopting him as her own child.。
So Moses was raised as the son of Pharaoh's daughter.。
Jochebed made the sacrifice not only to ignore the king's mandate and hide her son for three。
months, but to then selflessly release him so that he could survive and be cared for。
by Pharaoh's daughter.。
Now here comes the blessing.。
In an amazing turn of events, Jochebed became Moses' nurse while Pharaoh's daughter raised。
him.。
An effort that kept her connected to her beloved son and she got paid for it.。
Amazing.。
Exodus 2, 9-10 tells us what happened after Pharaoh's daughter discovered Moses in the。
basket in the Nile and hired Jochebed to nurse the boy.。
And Pharaoh's daughter said to him, "Take this child away and nurse him for me and I。
will give you your wages."。
So the woman took the child and nursed him.。
When the child grew older, she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter and he became her son.。
She named him Moses because she said, "I drew him out of the water."。
That's what the name Moses means.。
Although Jochebed has one of the shortest stories in the Bible, her life has some truly。
life-changing lessons because of who she was.。
In fact, her name means God's glory.。
In fact, we can say, I'll put it on the screen, Jochebed was blessed because she was on the。
right mission.。
My friends, I could go on and give examples of, biblical examples like Naomi who built。
up a relationship with her daughter-in-law Ruth, who would become through Boaz, part。
of the lineage, the ancestor of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
Sarah, who became pregnant in her 80s and gave birth to Isaac, the child of promise.。
Hannah, who trusted God in her barrenness and was rewarded by giving birth to Samuel,。
who plays a key role in the transition from the judges to the kings under Saul and again。
in the transition between Saul and David.。
But I want us to recognize mums in 2023.。
I want us to recognize mums here in Hong Kong.。
I want us to recognize mums at KFCI.。
We as a church have recognized those who serve the poor, who serve asylum seekers amongst。
others and it is right for us to do so.。
But today we want to do as the fifth commandment tells us, to honor our mothers.。
Now I know that's half of the commandment.。
Dads, you're going to have to wait till Father's Day on June the 18th.。
It has been said a mother is a person who seeing there are only four pieces of pie for。
five people promptly announces she didn't care for pie.。
Famous Indian writer, Dr. Nitya Prakash wrote this, "Mothers hold their children's hands。
for a short time, but their hearts forever."。
And a favorite Jewish proverb and one I heartedly agree with, "God could not be physically be。
everywhere, so therefore he created mothers."。
The clear cut definition of a mother is one of a selfless service to another.。
Mother or mom or as you Americans say, mom, as she is lovingly known, is always really。
good at putting the needs of others before her own.。
We're going to honor moms in a few moments.。
I was going to give you 50 ways to serve moms, but I decided not to, but to give you one.。
I'm going to suggest just one.。
Write a poem or heartfelt letter expressing your love and appreciation to your mom.。
If you're like me, you're almost passed on to glory, still sit down and do it.。
It's good.。
What we're going to do here is we're going to pray for moms.。
We also have a gift for them from our church.。
But before that, I'm going to ask two special women.。
I need two chairs on the stage.。
Ryan, can I just have two chairs on the stage?。
I'm going to ask two special women to come forward.。
One who's just been a mom for a few months and one who's been a mother for almost 48。
years.。
I'm going to ask them to come forward.。
Sandra and Michelle.。
Let's welcome them.。
Now I've got to tell you that originally my plan was to wash the feet of all the mothers。
in the church.。
Now, I reckon that maybe not all of you wanted that, not specifically.。
I'm going to wash the feet of these two women.。
One who's just become a mom with a baby and one who's been a mom and a grandmom for almost。
half a century.。
As we do this, this is symbolic of us wanting to wash the feet of all of our moms in this。
church.。
Then what we're going to do after that, actually moms, we're going to pray for you.。
Please take this as a proxy for all of you.。
We appreciate you all.。
I've got the shortest serving mom and the longest serving mom here today.。
I feel so excited.。
You need to take your shoes and socks off.。
Shall I do that for you?。
You want me to do that for you as well?。
You want me to do that for you as well?。
Do it like this at home.。
Oh, okay.。
We're getting the secrets now, right?。
Don't buy Michelle a pair of shoelaces.。
I'm just going to tell you that.。
She doesn't use them.。
Michelle is a standing for the moms in this church and someone has just become a mom.。
I think we all know how difficult the first year of being a mom is.。
We want to honor you.。
It's great that we've got Isabella here and we're just so grateful for the gift.。
I think the day that Isabella was born, she caught COVID, right, basically?。
You caught it.。
You caught it.。
You caught it.。
You were separated, right?。
Yeah.。
I think she was separated.。
I watched these feet as a sign that we really value you and we honor you.。
We treasure you as a mother.。
We treasure you as a minister.。
We just want to say how proud we are of you, that you've become this mom.。
As we do this, Lord, may this just be reflecting your heart for Michelle and your heart for。
all the mothers of this church.。
We thank you, Lord, for what you've done.。
Amen.。
This is very hard for me, but that's good.。
Yeah, please do that.。
You can stay there.。
Yeah.。
It's not the first time, actually, but actually, I just want to say I admire her nail varnish.。
It's great nail varnish.。
And Sandra, you've not only been a mom to two boys and a grandma to five, you're a mom。
to many here in Hong Kong, in this church, and around the world.。
And I just want to say I want to bless you.。
I want to bless you as a mother, as a grandmother.。
And most of all, you've been a mother to this big kid as well.。
You've been a mother to me.。
And thank you for your years of service, devoted service.。
You are a selfless person.。
You've given of yourself for other people.。
You were the one I was thinking of with the four pieces of pie.。
You would have done that.。
Definitely would have done that.。
And as a church, we really want to just honor you as a mother, as a grandmother, as a mother。
to the city, and a mother to the nations.。
And I just thank God for you.。
And we bless you.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Let's give a round of applause.。
Good.。
You can go back to your seat.。
I'm just going to pray a prayer, and then I'm going to ask mothers to stand.。
Could you just stay there for a moment?。
I'm just going to pray.。
Lord, we thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
We thank you for your service to us.。
