>>。
Good evening, everybody.。
Have you ever been to one of these events。
where the organiser。
feels you need an icebreaker。
in order to。
get the atmosphere。
and you get told to find。
somebody。
you don't know?。
And you then tell them。
three things about yourself.。
Two things are true and one is false.。
And you have to guess which one is false.。
And in the process,。
your new friend。
has got to know you a little better.。
Now, my favourite icebreaker is this one.。
If they were to make a film。
about you and your life,。
who would you choose?。
Who do you think I could choose?。
Any suggestions?。
If they were making a film about my life,。
you weren't listening,。
and I had to choose anyone to play me,。
who would I play me?。
Who?。
Andy Lyle.。
That's interesting.。
I must look very local.。
That's good.。
Anybody else?。
Any other guesses?。
Sir Patrick Stewart.。
Okay, that's interesting.。
He's about 90, isn't he?。
I don't know.。
Anybody else?。
Any other guesses?。
Bobby Charlton.。
Oh, my goodness.。
Well, okay.。
All right.。
Look, I've resisted George Clooney.。
And resisted Colin Firth.。
And I take into account。
my slightly crazy personality.。
I've chosen Jim Carrey.。
An outrageous extrovert,。
if ever I saw one.。
Some love him, some hate him,。
but there's no denying。
that Jim Carrey is funny.。
I mean, what's your favorite Jim Carrey film?。
Any suggestions?。
Maybe "Dumb and Dumber."。
Maybe "The Mask."。
Maybe "The Cable Guy."。
Oh, yes, and "The Truman Show."。
But my favorite,。
thanks for the spoiler alert,。
is "Liar, Liar," made in 1997.。
Jim Carrey is cast as Fletcher Reed,。
a fast-talking attorney。
and an habitual liar.。
When his son, Max,。
blows out his candles。
on his fifth birthday cake,。
he has just one wish,。
that his dad would stop lying。
for 24 hours.。
When Max's wish miraculously comes true,。
Fletcher discovers。
that his biggest asset,。
his mouth,。
has suddenly become。
his biggest liability.。
My favorite scene in the film。
is where Miss Berry, his teacher,。
asks the question of the kids.。
"Today, we're going to talk about。
what our parents do for work."。
And the little girl says,。
"My mummy is a doctor."。
And little boy says,。
"My daddy is a truck driver."。
And Max says,。
"Well, my mum is a teacher."。
So Miss Berry says,。
"And your dad?"。
And Max says this, I kid you not,。
"My dad, he's a liar."。
Teacher says, "A liar?。
I'm sure you don't mean that."。
And Max says, and you'll love this,。
"And he," this is for you, Vincent,。
"Well, he wears a suit。
and he goes to court。
and he talks to the judge."。
And Miss Berry says,。
"Oh, I see.。
You mean he's a lawyer."。
And Max shrugs his shoulders。
and says, "Yeah, whatever."。
Now, what has that got to do with our series?。
Well, as we discussed last week,。
our enemy is a habitual liar.。
He cannot tell the truth for a second,。
let alone 24 hours.。
When we did our Women in the Old Testament series。
and when we looked at the story of Rahab,。
it was about the tendency to downplay lying。
by calling it a fib, a white lie,。
a half-truth, a little lie.。
But I said at the time, and I say it now,。
a lie is a lie.。
Now, Scripture has many names for the enemy.。
One is the father of lies.。
In John 8, 44, I'm gonna read it to you.。
"When he lies, he speaks out of his own character,。
for he is a liar and the father of lies."。
Satan or the devil is known。
by a number of names in Scripture.。
And all of these names point to his evil character.。
The chief characteristics we find in this creature。
are hostility, cunning, power,。
and evil intent towards God and towards his people.。
It is therefore strategic for us。
to be able to spot the enemy's lies.。
Not so you can focus on the lies,。
but so you can avoid them。
and to fix your gaze back to the good shepherd.。
I want you to look at this hand.。
I'll put one on the screen.。
And I'm gonna use these five fingers。
to help you spot them,。
to help you overcome them,。
and to help you win the battle for your mind。
with the truth of Jesus.。
And the first lie I'm gonna talk about。
is the lie of comparison,。
the lie of comparison.。
Now, first and foremost,。
if you're hearing that it's better at another table,。
you've allowed the enemy a seat at your table.。
John 10:10 says this,。
"The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy.。
I came that they may have life and have it abundantly."。
The table that God prepares for you is about life。
and is about abundant life at that.。
Any other table than God's table。
is about stealing, killing, and destroying.。
When the enemy sits at your table,。
he often points to another table。
and talks about it being better elsewhere.。
How amazing is it somewhere else?。
He points to another table and says,。
"Hey, that is the solution to your problem."。
But ultimately, he is not selling you the truth.。
He's selling you lies.。
He's selling you death.。
And the tool he uses is the tool of trickery,。
the lie of comparison.。
He tells you there's a better table elsewhere.。
It goes something like this.。
Surely you should leave your spouse。
and hook up with somebody else.。
Life would be better there, right?。
That's the solution to all your problems.。
If you could just be with someone else.。
Surely you should run with a other crowd。
who are far more exciting than the people from church.。
Go do your own thing for a season.。
That's gonna be what you want.。
Surely at another table, there's more fun,。
more of what you are looking for.。
My friends, don't, don't, don't give into that.。
The devil loves for you to look at your life。
and compare it with somebody else's.。
And make you wish that you had what they had.。
The whole advertising industry is built around that.。
And Satan has his cocktail shaker ready.。
And he mixes a little jealousy with a dash of coveting。
and a splash of, "Woe is me."。
And as he's shaking the cocktail,。
he's muttering how God must love that other person。
more than he loves you.。
How God is blessing that person。
more than God is blessing you.。
How God is withholding from you something you need.。
Pretty soon this barman has convinced you。
that God isn't good.。
God hasn't blessed you.。
God doesn't love you.。
You missed out on something。
because God is mean and forgot about you.。
Or maybe God's been lying to you all this time.。
We have a name for this.。
We call it the grass is always greener syndrome.。
If your eyes are not locked on those of the good shepherd,。
then you're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
You're distracted by the tyranny of comparison.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
My next finger represents the lie that you are doomed.。
If you've somehow bought the lie that somehow you're not going to make it,。
the enemy is at your table.。
The voice tells you that life is hopeless.。
There's no way out.。
Might as well chuck it in.。
Quit and die.。
Ever felt like that?。
Where do you get this kind of thinking?。
Where do you hear these words of gloom and doom?。
I can tell you it is not the good shepherd.。
It is more likely the enemy at your table.。
Now last week I spoke about Psalm 23 verse 4.。
I'll read it again.。
"Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,。
I will fear no evil, for you are with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me."。
The key word in this verse is the one I've put in yellow, through.。
The good shepherd doesn't say you're going to the valley,。
like we're going to happy valley, right?。
You're not going to the valley.。
You are going through it.。
In other words, you are going to make it.。
He says this, we are going through the valley。
and I'm going to be with you all the way through.。
And guess what?。
We're going to have a story to tell on the other side.。
Now I said in week one, I owned up.。
If I had written Psalm 23 and not David,。
I would have said, you prepare a table for me in your presence。
and scatter my enemies.。
Sounds much better, right?。
Christians often talk about the loving presence of God.。
We pray prayers, don't we? We've all done it.。
Lord, we pray that you would be with us today.。
You've ever prayed that one?。
But you know what? God has already answered that prayer.。
Christ lives in you.。
We may not always feel it.。
And there are other times we're very aware of his presence,。
like in our worship times.。
But I need to tell you, there is not one Bible verse。
in the whole of the New Testament。
that encourages us to seek or encourage the presence of God.。
Why?。
Because God became visible in Jesus。
and now lives in us by his Holy Spirit.。
Can I say that again?。
God became visible in Jesus。
and now lives in us by his Holy Spirit.。
I no longer seek the presence of Jesus.。
I seek the person of Jesus.。
I no longer seek the presence of the Spirit.。
I seek the person of the Holy Spirit and his power.。
I have God living in me.。
And God promises he is there with us。
in the presence of our enemies.。
Jesus is at the table with us in the fire,。
as we just sang about,。
in hardship, in feelings of hopelessness,。
in the broken world.。
God doesn't eliminate all our difficulties.。
He allows us to walk through hardships。
and he walks through those hardships with us.。
Have you ever believed that you're hopeless?。
You are not hopeless.。
I tell you why.。
Jesus lives in you.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
My next finger represents the lie of worthlessness.。
I've got to be very careful now.。
My number three finger, right?。
Represents the lie of worthlessness.。
If you're hearing voices that say,。
"You're not good enough."。
Again, we briefly touched on this in week one,。
when we sang Lauren Daigle's song, "You Say."。
If you're hearing these voices,。
the enemy is at your table.。
Now we've got to be a little bit careful with this one。
because Scripture, after all, calls us to be humble.。
But as C.S. Lewis once said,。
"Humility is not thinking less of yourself,。
but thinking of yourself less."。
Humility is not thinking less about yourself,。
but about thinking about yourself less.。
In churches, we get confused, often get confused,。
by thinking that we are honoring God。
by thinking of ourselves less.。
Nothing could be further from the truth.。
We were made in God's image.。
You were made in God's image.。
Now, this doesn't give us an excuse。
to strut around and adopt a "it's all about me" attitude.。
But it doesn't leave us wallowing in,。
"I don't measure up afterwards."。
By the way, I've been in churches for many, many years.。
I got very, very used to babies crying in the service.。
So it's a very lovely thing to happen.。
So don't worry about it.。
The devil is equally pleased。
when we think too much or too little of ourselves.。
And tonight, I specifically want to encourage you。
if you gravitate towards the latter camp.。
You just don't feel you are enough.。
Maybe someone told you, you'll never amount to anything.。
Here's something, the "Not Enough" anthem。
was composed in the pit of hell.。
It's crippling, debilitating, paralyzing, suffocating.。
It did not come from the Good Shepherd.。
If you're hearing it and you're even repeating it,。
there must be an enemy at your table.。
This lie is not a reflection of humility.。
It's a club that beats you over the head.。
It tries to convince you that you are a spiritual reject.。
You're a worthless sinner who will always be a worthless sinner.。
You are not God's child.。
Can I suggest you look across the table for a moment?。
You lock eyes with the one who is sitting across from you.。
Do you see scorn and shame?。
Or do you notice the nail scars on the one who is refilling your water glass。
and the pitcher that is being lifted to give you a refreshing drink?。
Now, sure I know that's Jesus and he's the Holy One.。
But he invited you here.。
He booked the table.。
He prepared the meal.。
He sat down to join you.。
And this reservation cost him everything.。
John 10, 11 says, "I am the Good Shepherd."。
The Good Shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.。
Jesus has put it all on the line to be sitting at the table with you.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
My next finger represents the lie of me against the world.。
I had lunch with somebody last week.。
He told me he just quit his job.。
When I asked why, he said, "Oh, everybody hated me there."。
As I probed a little wearing my pastor hat,。
I discovered this was not the first time this had happened.。
A couple of years ago, he quit what seemed to be a good job。
because everybody there seemed to be against me.。
Sadly, I also discovered he had broken up with the girl he was planning to marry.。
Again, I asked what happened.。
They seemed so well matched.。
He said, "I blame her parents.。
They never liked me from the start.。
Everyone in the family hated me."。
I thought to myself, "Really?"。
When you are convinced that everyone is against you,。
you become convinced that everyone hates you.。
Your family, everyone at church, your colleagues, your friends, your neighbours.。
You're probably sitting there, sure that the waiter has spit in your soup.。
If you're hearing a voice that says, "Everyone's against you."。
The enemy is sitting at your table.。
He says, "You don't trust anyone."。
You become paranoid and it is not logical.。
You may not exactly hear the word hate, but you may be thinking,。
"Ah, that person doesn't even look up at me when I walk in the office.。
I bet she doesn't like me.。
See those people talking over there.。
I guarantee they're talking about me.。
All my friends, they do things without me.。
Nobody ever invites me anywhere.。
Nobody likes me."。
What you're doing is you develop a defence mechanism。
and you never allow people to get too close to you.。
The simple truth is that you need to let the Good Shepherd lead you by the still waters.。
You need Him to let you, cause you to lie down in green pastures.。
You need to ask God to refresh your souls。
and guide you along the righteous path of healing and restoration.。
You may feel surrounded by pressure and trouble,。
but know that God has set a table for you.。
And in the middle of all this, God has got your back.。
As a minister, I'm always confronted by people trying to trip me up.。
I used to call it the Monday morning email.。
But Sandra and I are blessed to have people all over the world。
who have our back and pray for us.。
Now on a Saturday evening, inevitably here at KSC,。
I, Chin and Sway are sitting behind us.。
Now, they're not high profile members of this congregation,。
but they are here principally because they've got our back.。
Literally and spiritually.。
But even more importantly, God has our back.。
When you and I remind ourselves of the truth。
that we are more prone to lay our side our fear and insecurities.。
The truth that God is for you and not against you matters greatly.。
It's not me against the world.。
You are not made to hate yourself.。
You are made to know that you are loved.。
Look at the table for a moment.。
Now forget the Taobao plastic food.。
And pretend for a moment.。
There's a banquet there.。
But you cannot enjoy it if your fists are clenched.。
You go out after dinner, go to a restaurant and clench your fist.。
You can't enjoy your dinner.。
Back to Psalm 23, verse 5 says,。
"You anoint my head with oil and my cup overflows."。
Now to understand this,。
you need to know that the biggest enemy of the sheep is not the big bad wolf.。
The biggest enemy of the sheep is tiny little parasites and flies.。
They attempt to lay their eggs in the sheep's nose.。
Yuck! It's disgusting. It's gross.。
They lay their eggs in the sheep nose.。
And so the shepherd would cover the sheep's head in oil.。
God through His Word wants to protect you from aggravation, lies and deceit.。
But there's more.。
Jesus wants your life to overflow.。
To reflect the bounty of the table.。
Again, forget the plastic flute for just a moment.。
Generosity is the business card of everyone who dines with Him.。
You don't hoard God's blessing.。
And so you pass out steak dinners to everyone, even your enemies.。
I want to tell you this. You'll never forget this.。
Generosity is impossible with closed fists.。
I'm going to say that again. I want you to remember this for the rest of your life.。
Generosity is impossible with closed fists.。
You can only give with open palms.。
I want to help change your script tonight.。
From everyone is against me.。
Everybody hates me.。
To God is for me. God has my back.。
The Lord Almighty is for you.。
So not everyone is against you.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
My last finger represents the lie that there is no way out.。
If you feel like you're surrounded and there is no way out, the enemy is at your table.。
Now why I've left this one to the last one is it is the classic lie of the enemy.。
It's the ultimate that combines several of the lies I've addressed in this sermon.。
The enemy convinces you there is nowhere to turn.。
Nowhere to run.。
No way forward.。
No chance you are ever going to live again.。
One of the hardest parts of a pastor's job I have is conducting funerals.。
But I have to say the hardest part of the hardest part is suicide.。
Among those for me in the last couple of years have been a young lady, a committed Christian,。
jumping from a 46th floor after online abuse from a former boyfriend.。
And a businessman whose luxury hotels he had built in Italy fell victim to a financial crash because of COVID.。
I'm not here tonight to give you glib answers because these and situations that you may have been going through are real.。
But if you feel like you are surrounded, I've got some good news for you.。
You are surrounded.。
But it's better than you think.。
As I move towards the close of this sermon, I want to draw on some more recent Christian songs for illustration.。
Michael W. Smith in his song "Surrounded" says this.。
This is how I fight my battles. Just when you think you're lost, it may look like I'm surrounded, but I'm surrounded by you.。
Hey, it may look like I'm surrounded, but I'm surrounded by you.。
And this song draws us to the story of Elisha and the God of angel armies.。
Another song.。
We read in 2 Kings 6.。
The God's prophet Elisha found himself in this situation after giving valuable advice to Israel's army.。
The king of Syria decided to take Elisha as a prisoner and he sent an army to the city where the prophet was staying.。
Under the cover of darkness, the Syrian warriors surrounded the city.。
When Elisha's servant woke early in the morning to begin his usual routine,。
he found himself looking out at an army of Syrians.。
He cried out to his master in panic. "What shall we do?"。
For the prophet Elisha, the choice was clear.。
And his answer to the servant was simple and full of faith.。
He said this, "Don't be afraid for those who are with us are more than those who are against us."。
This would have been really difficult for the servant to accept as he looked out and he looked at a wall of enemies。
bristling with spears and shields.。
The servant didn't see anybody ready and willing to fight on their side.。
But Elisha saw it in a completely different situation.。
He spoke to the Lord on behalf of his servant and we read this.。
That Elisha prayed and said, "Oh Lord, please open his eyes that he might see."。
Suddenly the servant was able to see with the same enlightened eyes as Elisha.。
The hills around the city weren't empty at all.。
A mighty host of horses and chariots of fire stood in wait,。
sent by the Lord to protect his prophet.。
We read this, "So the Lord opened the eyes of the young man。
and he saw and behold the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha."。
The Syrians began to advance on the city, unaware that they were now vastly outnumbered.。
Elisha spoke to God again asking, "Strike this people I pray with blindness."。
Chaos broke out in the Syrian ranks as the entire army suddenly went blind.。
My friends, in a matter of moments, Elisha's simple faith reduced a seemingly unstoppable foe to nothing.。
Now this story was the inspiration behind Chris Tomlin's song, "God of Angel Armies."。
The chorus goes like this, we've sung it here before.。
I know who goes before me.。
I know who stands behind.。
The God of angel armies is always by my side.。
The same is true for you and for me.。
Now it may be true that circumstances are closing.。
Your whole world is surrounded by threats, accusations, missiles.。
The enemy says you're doomed.。
There's no way out.。
But I tell you that God has everyone and everything surrounding you, surrounded.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
There's another in the fire.。
We're going to finish now and ask the band to return.。
And my inspiration actually comes from another song.。
Two years ago, I was in Brisbane, Australia for the funeral of a close friend.。
It was actually my son's father-in-law.。
Somebody I'd known and loved for over 30 years.。
On the Friday night, the day before the funeral, I visited Hillsong Church in Brisbane。
and heard this song, the one that we sang earlier for the very first time.。
It was written by a young man called Chris Davenport,。
whose son had been recently diagnosed with autism.。
It comes from the story of Meshach, Shadrach and Abednego in the book of Daniel.。
To put things briefly, all people, including these three men,。
under the jurisdiction of King Nebuchadnezzar, were ordered to worship an idol。
or face the penalty of being hurled into a furnace.。
Due to their faith, Shadrach and Co. refused.。
Of course, they weren't desiring to be burnt alive.。
But under the faith that if God so wills, he will save them from such a terrible fate.。
Ultimately, the men were indeed cast into the fire.。
But instead of three of them, we see the picture in the furnace.。
There appeared four men.。
The fourth being either an angel or, some people believe, Jesus.。
The long and the short of this story is that Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego。
came out of the furnace unscathed, not even a burn mark on them.。
May this be our testimony.。
I invite you to stand.。
I just want to read this chorus to you and then we're going to sing it now.。
There's another in the fire, standing next to me.。
There's another in the waters, holding back the sea.。
And should I ever need reminding what power set me free,。
there is a grave that holds no body.。
Now that power lives in me.。
Now that power lives in you, my friends.。
When the enemy tries to spin lies, when he tries to sit at your table,。
there is one who is there with you and he will take you through this.。
So as we sing this, may you sing this in an act of faith,。
as a testimony to the one who is in the fire with us.。
Let's sing together.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
