- Hey, hello everyone.。
Happy New Year.。
Thank you, Jonny.。
Starting this new series, it's really exciting, Living Hope.。
We're going to be going through one Peter.。
It's a joy to be able to share the word of God with all of you here.。
It's been a crazy year, right, 2020.。
And of course, we've talked a lot about hope,。
talked a lot about what is actually hope.。
I'm going to put the slides on the screen right now.。
And the title for today is "Where there's Christ, there's hope."。
And it's been a crazy two years.。
You know, we as a family, Christina and I and the two kids,。
we've been in Hong Kong for two years now.。
And that word seems to have taken a new life and a new meaning for us.。
What is hope?。
Finding out what hope is and actually is how do we keep hope alive。
during this season?。
And maybe any hopes we had of this new year being better were probably。
very quickly dashed with everything that has been happening with the U.S.。
and the U.K. and just the whole world.。
And suddenly we're back to a place of just asking,。
how do we still have hope?。
How do we maintain that kind of hope?。
And that's what I really wanted to focus on today.。
And we're going to be looking through the word of God,。
one Peter specifically, versus Chapter 1, Verse 3 to 12.。
So if you've got your Bibles, if you've got your apps,。
then do feel free to open it up and we'll go from there.。
But I really wanted to start with just asking this question to all of you.。
We've heard this word a lot, "Hope."。
How hopeful of a person are you?。
How hopeful are you?。
And I've talked about this before.。
The way we use hope now in this modern era is very different to the way。
the Bible uses it.。
Now we're talking, "Hey, I hope the weather gets warmer soon.。
I hope the vaccine will work.。
I hope we'll be able to figure out a way to get the vaccine.。
I hope things will go back to normal."。
All these things that we're hoping for are really actually us not having control.。
So we are just being very hopeful and just hoping that it will happen.。
There's a certain level of uncertainty about it.。
But the way the Bible talks about hope is very, very different.。
The way the Bible talks about hope is in a much more certain kind of way.。
Actually, our clan and I recently, we looked at this word,。
and we watched a video on it.。
And the Bible talks about hope in a different way.。
And, of course, the language that it was written in is much more complex。
than English, especially in the New Testament.。
The Bible, the scriptural writers use two different words.。
One is "kavar," which is a word that is talking about a kind of like an。
expecting time that you're waiting for, is an experience in this kind of tension。
as you wait.。
And the Apostle Peter, actually, in 1 Peter, is talking all about hope.。
And he uses the word "alpiz," which is this kind of like joyful。
and confident expectation of eternal salvation.。
And that's how the Bible talks about it, not the way we talk about it。
in this modern era.。
But the way the Bible talks about it carries this kind of certainty,。
carries this kind of joy.。
And Peter specifically talks about this in the verses that we're going to read.。
And, of course, it's quite wordy.。
I have to confess, 1 Peter is not one of my favorite books because, actually,。
I find it very hard to read.。
It's very packed.。
There's a lot of things.。
And I was trying to read even just the first three verses with you here,。
just for you to get a sense of what he's talking about.。
It says, verse 3, "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,。
according to his great mercy he has caused us to be born again to a living。
hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,。
to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading,。
kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith。
for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time."。
Wow.。
When you read that, doesn't it just kind of come at you?。
And there's just so much to take.。
Every sentence seems to deserve a sermon on its own.。
And yet here, as we're looking through this, I encourage you all,。
as we see what the Apostle Peter is saying about hope,。
the real question I want to ask you is, how hopeful are you?。
How hopeful are you?。
You see, as a believer, we should be absolutely maxed out with our hope.。
We should be completely hopeful.。
You should be able to say, I should be able to say,。
I am completely filled with hope.。
Why?。
Because that's what the Bible tells us, that we've been born into a living hope.。
We believe that there is a victory that is coming at the end.。
And, again, I'll share this story.。
I'm the kind of person that when I watch a movie,。
I go to Wikipedia and I read about the plot first.。
I know a lot of you judge me for that.。
And I'm that kind of person.。
And I'll tell you why, because I don't like to waste emotional investment。
on characters that I know will turn bad or that they will die.。
I just want to know who the bad guys are and the good guys are.。
I want to know how the story ends so I'm not filled with anxiety.。
And I know that's frowned upon from a lot of people.。
But when I watch those films, when I found out,。
I found out where the Dumbledore dies,。
I found out where the Frodo gives up his ring,。
when I found out all these things,。
I watch it with a much more relaxed state of mind because I know the ending.。
And I remind myself of that story all the time.。
I remind myself that's what I'm like all the time because I think as believers,。
that's what we should be like.。
When we see this world going up and down, turning upside down,。
and just completely being so uncertain, we remind ourselves, wait,。
we know the ending.。
We know that Jesus is coming back.。
So that should fill us with hope.。
And Peter talks about a living hope.。
Let me just forward this.。
What does it mean that he says that we are born into a living hope?。
And that is what I'm going to try and unpack today as we go through verses 3 to 12.。
And if you have a quick scan of this passage here, it is completely packed.。
Peter is kind of just coming out with it all in one go.。
It's almost as if he's not even coming up for air.。
He's just packing it all in.。
And there are so many truths in there.。
I want to take a little bit of time to go through each one to see what he actually means.。
You see, when he talks about a living hope, he's using the word "el-peace,"。
which is, again, it's a joyful expectation of eternal salvation.。
It's a joyful one.。
He's like, oh, this hope is living.。
What does that really mean?。
It means that actually Jesus rose from the dead.。
God raised Jesus from the dead, which means he can raise us from the dead,。
which means death isn't the end, which means there is something beyond the grave.。
There is something beyond this world.。
There is something beyond what we can see.。
And what is that?。
The resurrection of Jesus is what it is.。
And that is so key.。
And actually, he says that is the most important, important thing.。
The Apostle Paul talks about this in 1 Corinthians 15, how the resurrection of Jesus is of first importance.。
In fact, if Jesus isn't raised from the dead, our faith is in vain, our faith is futile,。
and even me preaching right here is in vain.。
That is the key to all of it, the resurrection of Jesus.。
Because he rose from the dead, we have a living hope.。
I want to pause right there and just ask you, how often, how regularly do you allow yourself to just remind yourself of that truth,。
that Jesus came and defeated death and that he is alive right now?。
Because that is the most important part to your faith.。
Not that Christianity makes historical sense, not that it makes you feel comfortable when you are going through bad times.。
No, we believe, we are Christians because Jesus rose from the dead.。
And that is the most important thing.。
And Romans 6, 4 talks about this.。
Therefore, we have been buried with him by baptism into death, so that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father,。
we too might walk in the newness of life.。
And so we have a living hope, a living hope.。
That word living also implies that it is growing.。
I want to ask you this.。
Has your hope been growing as you've been a believer?。
As you've been growing in the faith, have you been growing in hope?。
Because that's key, because it is a living hope.。
It's interesting because how much we hope is almost tied into how spiritually mature we are.。
Have you noticed the people who are maybe closer to life's end, who are maybe more spiritually mature,。
they are always the ones who are filled with the most hope.。
Because they know what they're -- they know what to expect.。
Because they see that eternal salvation.。
Recently in our communities we've had people who have succumbed to cancer.。
But their stories have all been inspiring to all of us who have less suffering.。
Why?。
Because they've been filled with hope.。
They've been filled with a living hope and our peace, which is even when they are getting close to death,。
they have this joyful expectation that they are eternally saved.。
So what does it mean for us to have living hope?。
That's the question I want to tackle today as we look at these verses.。
What does it mean for us to have living hope?。
And the Apostle Peter talks about this and he goes through it and really he ties down living hope with three things。
that I wanted to kind of show us all today.。
He ties it down with three themes.。
Now, verses 3 to 5, he talks about an inheritance.。
And then he talks about suffering in verses 6 to 7.。
And then finally he talks about salvation.。
And these three words here, which are all very Christian-y kind of words, right, he ties them into hope.。
And what he's saying is if you want to have living hope, if you hold on to that living hope,。
you also need to hold on to these three things.。
And in this very packed passage between verses 3 to 12, he talks about why we can have living hope.。
And he bases it on these three points, our inheritance, the suffering that we go through, and salvation.。
And those are familiar words, but maybe tricky to remember sometimes.。
So I've turned them into maybe words that are easier to remember.。
And what he's saying is he's tying living hope into three main facts that you need to remember.。
If you want to be as hopeful as you can be, if you want to max out on your hope tank,。
you need to remember these three things.。
And what are they?。
One is that we have a reward that's waiting for us, that we will be rewarded.。
Number two, that we are being refined.。
And number three, that we have also been rescued.。
Rewarded, refined, rescued.。
And I want to go through each of these as it ties into what he's saying here in scripture.。
We need to remember this because if we're going to have a living hope,。
we need to remember that we have already been rewarded and we will already be rewarded.。
We are currently, constantly being refined and that we are also being rescued.。
The first one is here, rewarded through inheritance.。
Verses three to five, he talks about it in this way.。
To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you,。
who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.。
Again, just a completely packed verse there of what it is that we have this.。
The object of our hope is an inheritance that we have.。
And what is this inheritance?。
Now, again, this is a modern day interpretation of the word inheritance is something that you get after the person who's passing it down to you dies, passes away.。
Maybe a parent has an inheritance to pass to you, but you only get it once they pass away.。
But the way the Apostle Peter is talking about it, or maybe the way that it was understood and received by the audience back then was different。
because the word inheritance back then meant a slightly different thing.。
It wasn't that you could only get it once that person passes away, but in some ways it's already yours.。
There's a difference there. It's already yours.。
If you think about the parable of the prodigal son, you've got the son who kind of goes to the father and says, hey, I want my inheritance now.。
It belongs to me now and I want to take it.。
So it's slightly different to the way we talk about it.。
Now, if we have a look at this word, it's interesting because it says this one, this inheritance is imperishable, undefiled and unfading.。
And I want to go through each one. But to start with, I just want you to remember that you have this inheritance right now.。
Some of you again, I've talked about this before. Some of you will know that my brother and I, we come from a, our family is from Hong Kong.。
It's from the New Territories, very close to where John and Sandra live.。
And some people live out there in Yuen Long and we're village people, actually.。
And there was a colonial law that came about in, I think it was 1972, which is, I don't know what the English name is.。
The Chinese name is, it's like a small house policy.。
It's basically the government, the colonial government allowing the villagers to basically build a small house for themselves.。
And Chinese is called a ding kun. And this ding kun is very interesting.。
It's only, it's only accessible by people who are village people.。
And basically every male that is born into a family, a village family, has this ding kun, this right to build.。
And it's yours from the moment that you're born and that you, but you only activate it, you only can activate it when you're an adult, when you're 18 years old.。
And in some way it reminded me of this inheritance that we have, which is the moment that we're born and we're here, we're talking about being born again into being a Christian.。
We already have it. This inheritance is already ours.。
It already has our name on it. Now, it is yet to be fully activated.。
And we're waiting for that to be activated when either we meet the Lord, when we go to him or when Jesus returns again.。
But in the same way, that is what the inheritance that the Bible is talking about, something that you already own, that already has your name on.。
And this one is imperishable, undefiled and unfading.。
It's imperishable meaning that it's not subject to being worn out or decay.。
It's untouched by death. It will not perish.。
Number two, it's undefiled. It's unstained and unpolluted by sin and evil and of the world.。
And finally, it's unfading. It will never fade away or ever wither or grow dim or lose its beauty.。
It's unimpaired by time. And what it's kept in heaven for you.。
It's like this active way of being preserved for you.。
It's kept in heaven for you by God. It's in the safe custody with God and ready to be revealed on the last day.。
God himself is guarding your inheritance.。
Can we just let that seep in that you have something, you have a reward that is awaiting you, that already has your name on,。
that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading and is being shielded and preserved in heaven for you.。
Now, that doesn't give you hope, then I don't know what does.。
But somehow we forget that, right? We forget that we already have this inheritance.。
We forget that we have been rewarded and that we will be rewarded and that it will be fully activated in the end times.。
That is the first part to having a living hope.。
And what Peter is doing here is he's actually enticing us to read about this and to think about the relationship between the present and the future.。
Now, just a bit more context about one Peter.。
Peter is writing to the exiles. So he's writing to the dispersed Christians and they're all going through some kind of trials, persecution.。
The Romans are still after them. The Pharisees are still after them.。
So they're going through a lot of tough time. And he's writing that with that in mind.。
And he's saying to them, just remember that you were born into a living hope, that you have an inheritance that is going to come back.。
What he's saying is that you need to remember and connect what's happening right now and what's happening in the future.。
I recently heard a quote that there's two most important days to someone's life.。
Today and that day. To a believer, those are the most important days. Today and that day.。
What is that day? That is the day that we meet. That is the day when Jesus returns.。
And why is that important? Because the way you perceive that day, how real that day is to you, impacts your today.。
How you live, how you think and remember about eternity with Jesus impacts the way you live today in this reality here.。
So my question to you when I'm asking you how hopeful are you really starts with the question of how eternally minded are you?。
How much are you living for that day? Because if you remember that day every day, it will impact your today.。
So maybe that's my first question. How how much have you let that fact seep into your heart and your soul and your mind?。
That you have an inheritance that is waiting for you, that there is soon coming a kingdom of heaven that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading.。
That God himself is preserving it for you, keeping it in heaven ready for you.。
That is the first that is the first key point that Peter talks about in this passage about how we maintain that living hope.。
The second one is this refined. And he says this in this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes, though it is tested by fire.。
May be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.。
And again, that's just completely packed. But he's saying here, I know that you exiles are being grieved by various trials.。
But in some ways, he's saying to have living hope, you will no doubt have some trials.。
And maybe just have to think now, is anyone going through any trials? Are you going to tell us how is life for you right now?。
And if you can say, you know what, life isn't going too well. There are things that I'm really struggling with. There are challenges that I'm having.。
Well, actually, what Peter is saying here is those challenges that you're facing are the prerequisites to hope.。
Romans 5, Paul talks about this. He's saying, how do you get hope? You start from suffering and then you have endurance and then you have character and then you finally have hope.。
It's almost saying that in order to have hope, you will go through challenges.。
And Peter himself talks about this later. He says, don't be surprised when you have fiery trials.。
But we do that, right? As believers, we sometimes think life should be just easy and when we're with God, we should just completely be blessed.。
But when something happens, we're like, why is something bad happening to me? That doesn't make sense. I don't deserve this. Why me, God?。
And Peter is telling us, don't be surprised when you have fiery trials.。
It's part of what we do. The Apostle James talks about this. Count it all joy when you go through these trials.。
Jesus himself promised, take heart, for in this world you will have trouble.。
You will have trouble, but take heart for I have overcome the world.。
So what I want to really bring home is if we're to have this living hope.。
We have to go through trials. And these last two years have been testing for those of us living in Hong Kong and living in this whole world.。
But actually, something that I'm learning myself, maybe it's a New Year's resolution for me is as I'm facing these trials, I need to try and count them all as joy.。
In this, you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved.。
Paul talks about this. He says those light momentary afflictions that you have right now are nothing, are nothing compared to the eternal weight of glory,。
are nothing compared to the inheritance that awaits you, that is being kept for you, the inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading.。
We remember that being a Christian does not mean we're going to have an easy life.。
But in fact, instead of asking, God, why me? The question I'm learning to ask now is, God, why now?。
Why have you allowed this to happen? And what is there that you are doing?。
And what is there that you are wanting me to learn?。
So as believers, actually, God requires us, God asks of us to embrace the suffering, to embrace the various trials,。
because he wants us to learn something from it, to grow from it, to be refined.。
It says, you know, verse seven, "So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes, though it is tested by fire."。
Some of us feel like we're going through the fire.。
But actually, it's so biblical. In fact, so many books in the Bible talk about suffering.。
If you look at this book, this book, nowhere in this book says there will be no suffering.。
In fact, all the people in the Bible go through suffering.。
But somehow, if you're like me, sometimes I'm thinking suffering shouldn't happen to me.。
Yet actually, God uses suffering to refine us.。
And again, I've shared this story before. It's such a powerful one for me.。
There's a passage in the Old Testament, Malachi, Malachi, chapter three, and it says this, "He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver.。
He will purify the Levites and refine them like gold and silver.。
Then the Lord will have men who will bring offerings in righteousness."。
I want to share with you a little devotional, a little story that was written about this passage here.。
You know, "He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver." And I want to read it to you.。
The story goes like this. "A woman had read this verse, Malachi 3, and was puzzled by it.。
So she decided to go and visit a silversmith to find out how he did his work.。
As she watched the silversmith, he held a piece of silver over the fire and let it heat up.。
He explained that in refining silver, one needed to hold the silver in the middle of the fire where the flames were hottest.。
That way it would burn out all the impurities. She began to think about God, often placing us in a really hot spot.。
Then she thought again about the verse that he sits as a refiner and purifier of silver.。
She then asked the silversmith if it was true that he had to sit there in front of the fire the whole time silver was being refined.。
The man said, yes, I have to sit there. He not only had to sit there holding the silver,。
but he had to keep his eyes on the silver the entire time it was in the fire.。
Because if the silver was left even a moment too long in the flames, it would be destroyed.。
The moment was silent for a moment. Then she asked the silversmith,。
"How do you know when the silver is fully refined?" He said, "Oh, that's easy.。
When I see my image in it."。
Can you see that God is kind of like the silversmith?。
Who places us in the fire to refine us, to let all the impurities rise up and leave us.。
And he stays close to us because he knows exactly when to remove you from that trial, from that fire.。
And if he's not taking you out just yet, then there is still something that needs to be done.。
That he is still refining you to the point where he gets to see himself in you.。
That we get to be more and more like him.。
So if we're to have this living hope, we need to know that we will have to learn how to embrace trials.。
That we have to learn how to embrace suffering.。
And we are born into this living hope.。
And every person who has given birth to a human being will tell you that being born is a painful experience.。
For the mother and also probably for the baby.。
Being pushed out into this world.。
And for us, as we are born again to be believers, to be followers of Christ, no one said that it would be easy.。
In fact, it will probably be harder.。
And being born hurts, sometimes we think it doesn't.。
Another example would be, imagine a sculptor creating a sculpture.。
He has to chip away at all the parts in order to form the image, the shape that he desires.。
And God is constantly chipping away at us through the trial so we don't be surprised.。
And we embrace them almost.。
Because that's the way to growth.。
That's the way to looking like Jesus.。
A couple of weeks ago, at the beginning of the Christmas holidays, my family and I, we went on a hike.。
Now, I'm not a big fan of hikes because they are, they just bring about too much suffering for me.。
But my wife loves them and it was a holiday time.。
So we went as a family and I wrongly placed my trust in some friends who said that the Apleichau hike was an easy one.。
And they took their baby and their kids.。
So we fell for it and we went.。
And thankfully we went with Gabriel.。
And we went.。
And it was steep.。
It was really steep.。
If you have been on that from Apleichau and then to Apleipa, it's a really steep hike and it was dangerous almost taking a young child.。
Almost irresponsible.。
I'll never do it again.。
Now, when I was going up this hike, I had a revelation.。
It was so steep that it would be the hikes where they left ropes for you to hold on to.。
Because you just couldn't do it on your own because it would be dangerous.。
But as I was going up, I realized, actually, well, one, it felt like 2020.。
That this moment that I was living right now on this hike, going up that mountain, felt like what 2020 was completely for us as a family.。
We were climbing up this uphill mountain.。
But that Jesus was the rope that we were clinging on to.。
That Jesus was there the whole time to take us up.。
But it was a hike.。
Sorry, it was a challenge and it was a struggle.。
But also I noticed the bits that had more rocks were easier to climb than the smoother bits.。
And it made me think, you know what, I think that's why God sometimes places rocks in front of our path.。
In front of our hike.。
Actually, those rocks, even though we despise them and we go through these rocky patches, life is just harder.。
But actually, it's grabbing on to those rocks actually helps us go to a new height.。
And I started to embrace, actually, if life was just a smooth, silky path, we would not really grow.。
We would not be able to climb up the smoother bits.。
We needed the rocks.。
We needed the rope.。
We needed Jesus to get up there.。
And it just reminded me as believers, that's how we really should live.。
That we can live today when we remind ourselves of that day.。
And we can rejoice.。
We can choose to rejoice, even through the rocky patches, even through the various trials, even through the refining.。
Because we know that's what God is allowing.。
That's what God wants for us.。
So that is it.。
If we're to have a living hope, second point is that we need to remember that we are being refined.。
So when we look at the trials, we're not surprised.。
We're not shocked.。
We're not disappointed or frustrated too much.。
But we know, wow, God's placed this rock in front of me for a reason.。
My job is to climb it and stay close to him.。
And the final one is this, that we are rescued.。
The scripture carries on.。
Oh, we missed it.。
I'm going to have to go back now.。
Here you go.。
Though you have not seen him, you love him.。
Though you -- I can read it from the Bible.。
Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.。
Verse 10.。
Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what personal time the spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories.。
It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look.。
Now, I completely appreciate that that is a lot to read.。
But it's just a mouthful.。
I want to just distill what Peter is saying here.。
Peter is saying here that if you are to have this living hope, you need to remember that you were saved, that you have this salvation.。
Verse 9.。
Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.。
Now, salvation means to be rescued.。
To be rescued from danger, healing from illness, deliverance from the threat of death.。
See, the content of Christian hope is salvation.。
Peter says that to have hope, to look forward, you also need to look backward.。
You also need to see where you came from.。
Going back to that hike that I went on, it was a tough climb.。
But whenever I needed to take a moment, just to take a -- just to kind of have a second just to catch my breath, I would look back and I would see the most beautiful view.。
I would see, wow, isn't that amazing?。
Looking how far I had come, looking at the view that was behind.。
So Peter is saying here, if you are to remain in having this living hope, you need to look back in order to look forward.。
You need to remember that you were saved, that you were rescued.。
Do you remember how far you have come?。
So maybe that's a question for you.。
If you are facing challenges right now, are you able to look back and just go, wow, you know what?。
I'm not where I want to be, but I'm not where I used to be.。
I have made progress.。
I have grown.。
I have come a long way.。
See, if you're able to remember that, then you will have hope because you will know that God -- that you are moving in the right direction, that God is moving you in the right direction.。
You see, the purpose of this parrotage here from verses 8 to 12, even though it's a handful, is actually Peter reminding the readers of the spiritual blessing that they have.。
He's saying, do you know the people in the Old Testament, the ones who prophesied about the Messiah, they never got to see Jesus, but you did.。
You know what the ending of the story is now.。
What he's saying is in order to have living hope, you need to be filled with gratitude.。
You need to be filled with gratitude.。
You need to be thankful.。
Gratitude for the high privilege of knowing Christ.。
That thing there, if you know Christ and know that he's coming back, that will serve as a healthy antidote to discouragement, to frustration, to suffering.。
To be filled with thankfulness to God.。
Wow, look how far I've come and I know where you're taking me.。
See, those who are united to Christ will also, after suffering, enter into glory.。
That's the passage I just read from Romans 6, that we've been buried with him and that we might walk in a newness of life.。
So living hope is us remembering that we've been rescued once already and that we will be rescued again.。
That is the final point here for how we maintain this living hope.。
We have hope.。
Again, I share this before, we have a hope not because of Christ, of Jesus coming down and being born in a manger, but we have hope because he's coming again.。
And we have to remind ourselves again of that day all the time.。
Today and that day.。
Today and that day.。
So that's it.。
In order for us to have a living hope, we have to remember that we have been rewarded, that we are currently being refined,。
and that we have already been rescued and that he is coming back again.。
Brother, sister, I wanted to finish just by asking you that question again.。
How hopeful are you?。
We know the answer should be we are very hopeful, but we know that isn't always the case.。
It's sometimes hard to keep hope alive.。
But I wanted to finish by encouraging this.。
Hope is not yours to keep alive.。
So don't worry if you don't seem to be able to keep it alive, because the living hope that you were born into is not yours to keep alive.。
It's not a vague self-willed determination.。
You can't keep it alive yourself because hope is a person and his name is Jesus.。
And your hope is as alive as Jesus is.。
So when you are discouraged, when you are worried about the uncertainties ahead,。
I want to remind you that if he is your hope, then you need not be discouraged and that he is alive and that he's coming back.。
And that day should spur you on today.。
So if he's your hope, it doesn't matter how you feel about your hope, because hope is as alive as Jesus is.。
And the fact that Jesus died and rose again, remains unchanged, should change everything about the way we look at life.。
So allow the resurrection of Jesus to impact, to inform, to influence every aspect of your life.。
When you are making decisions about work, when you are making decisions about family or relationships or your future, remind yourself.。
The fact that Jesus rose from the dead, the fact that death is defeated, the fact that I have nothing to fear anymore.。
How should I live right now? Because the earthly possessions that we have will fade away.。
They will perish. They are defiled and they are going to fade away.。
But hope, Jesus will not.。
So as believers born into this living hope, we can take what the world misunderstands about hope and actually show everyone, hey, look, things are not good right now.。
Things, in fact, this world is very dark and we don't know what tomorrow holds.。
But my goodness, I have hope still because I know that Jesus is coming back.。
I have looked ahead and I see the ending to this story.。
And because of that, I have a hope that can't be shaken by anything in this world.。
We can really genuinely hope for the best, to borrow some more cheesy worldly quotes.。
We can hope for the best, not in the way that the world does, but we can hope for the best because we truly believe the best is yet to come.。
Because we believe Jesus is yet to return and because we believe Jesus rules over all.。
So may that hope be an anchor for my soul.。
May it be an anchor for your soul.。
And may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing so that by the power of the Holy Spirit, you may abound in hope.。
Let's pray.。
Lord Jesus, you are our hope.。
And whilst we fail to keep alive our hope sometimes, Lord, we remember to place all our hope in you.。
So today we commit to looking ahead to that day again.。
And we remember those three things that you have reminded us today through your word, that we have an inheritance that has our name on, that is being kept for us.。
And may that inform all our decisions today.。
May we not place our trust in the things of this world, but look ahead to what already has our name on.。
And may we also embrace the fact that we are being refined, that you are allowing waves to happen.。
You are allowing rocks to be in front of us, but only there to test the genuineness of our faith, only there to grow us, only there to refine us, to make us look more like you.。
And finally, we remember the truth of the gospel, that we have been rescued, that without you we are lost, that we are blind, but with you we see, we are found.。
And may that gratefulness, that gratitude for being rescued, seep into the deepest parts of our souls so that we can remain to have this living hope.。
We thank you, God. And it is in your name we pray. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
