The farmer who obeyed God.。
Johnny told us last week about Gideon the farmer and his transition from doubter to believer。
and from believer to warrior.。
And tonight we will see his victory.。
A victory against all odds.。
Now you might be able to identify with that at the moment.。
We all feel like that at the moment that we are battling against the odds.。
That the odds are stacked up against us.。
Now many people have had to do what we call downsizing.。
And basically downsizing is to do more with less.。
Some people have lost their jobs.。
Some people are not able to get to appointments, not able to make sales.。
Some people are really struggling at the moment.。
I believe that sometimes God trims our resources in order for us to depend on him.。
Sickness, financial reversal, family conflict and other difficulties can cause us to turn our lives to God.。
But we need to remember this, that when the odds seem overwhelming, God overwhelms the odds.。
I'll say that again.。
When the odds seem overwhelming, God overwhelms the odds.。
But when it comes to war, nations don't usually downsize.。
They usually do the opposite.。
They mobilise their reserves.。
They cancel all leave and requests for discharge and retirement.。
They need every man they can get.。
And as we continue to look at Gideon, we see in Judges chapter 7,。
that God is going to ask him to do something which to many nations would seem crazy.。
Now remember, the Gideon's army was already hugely outnumbered.。
Judges 8.10 tells us that the Midianite army was 135,000 strong.。
While Gideon's force numbered a mere 32,000 according to Judges 7.3.。
One Israelite for every four Midianites.。
Now I don't know about you, but Gideon must have thought,。
"We've got no chance against an army that size."。
But Gideon at least understood the might of his enemy.。
I think for us sometimes you see we are oblivious to the forces around us。
that try to snare us and defeat us.。
And so we must recognise that we're engaged in spiritual warfare daily.。
We're battling the world.。
We're battling with flesh, battling the devil and his agents.。
Can I go back to Gideon?。
To guarantee that history would record this battle as a divine victory.。
I mean so much so that we're still talking about it tonight, 3,000 years later.。
God issued an order for a massive reduction in force.。
Let's look at it.。
The Lord said to Gideon, "You have too many men."。
I cannot deliver Midian into their hands or Israel would boast against me.。
My own strength has saved me.。
Now announced to the army, anyone who trembles with fear。
may turn back and leave Mount Gilead.。
So 22,000 men left while 10,000 remained.。
So 32,000 had become 10,000.。
But, and it's a very big but, let's read on.。
The Lord said to Gideon, "There are still too many men.。
Take them down to the water and I shall thin them out there for you.。
If I say this one shall go with you, he shall go.。
But if I say this one shall not go with you, he shall not go."。
So Gideon took the men down to the water.。
There, the Lord told him, "Separate those who lap the water with their tongues。
as a dog laps from those who kneel down to drink."。
300 of them drank from cupped hands, lapping like dogs.。
All the rest got on their knees to drink.。
The Lord said to Gideon, "With the 300 men that lapped,。
I will save you and the Midianites into your hands.。
Let all the others go home."。
So Gideon sent the rest of the Israelites home。
and he kept the 300 who took over the provisions and the trumpets of the others.。
Let's have a look what happened.。
We went from 32,000 to 10,000.。
If that was not bad enough, we then went from 10,000 to just 300.。
Can you imagine what's going through Gideon's mind right now?。
He's probably thinking, "God, we had a very slim chance of winning with 32,000 men.。
But now you want us to fight with 300 against 135,000 Midianites."。
I thought of putting this into a Hong Kong context.。
Can you imagine you're on Central Station about six o'clock in the evening?。
You've just got off your train from Tsim Sha Tsui。
and people are coming down the entrance.。
And instead of going through the exit one,。
you go the same way as the 450 people are coming down.。
That was what it was like for Gideon.。
He was like on the MTR escalator going up the way that everybody was coming down.。
Gideon was left with a mere 300 troops.。
And his only option was to trust God, to trust God or perish.。
And so he was left virtually without an army.。
But remember this,。
when we are serving in God's army, we become part of the overwhelming majority.。
Can I say it again?。
When we are serving in God's army, we become part of the overwhelming majority.。
And just because we're in the minority,。
it doesn't mean it's all bad.。
Because with God, it's never about numbers.。
It's about faith.。
And that's why if everyone here at KFCI,。
as small as we are in numbers,。
if each of us would just trust God,。
then He will always provide for victory in our lives.。
As someone once said,。
"You cannot be too small for God to use,。
but you can be too big."。
Can I repeat that?。
You cannot be too small for God to use,。
but you can be too big.。
Too big.。
In other words,。
if you want credit for what God is doing in you,。
God will not use you.。
That's why when you look around,。
you will see God working in a powerful way。
in the lives of some very weak people.。
They are Christians who are called to give God the glory.。
It begs a question for us.。
Do we bask in our victory?。
Or do we praise God for His work in our lives?。
Now, as I mentioned earlier,。
you can only imagine Gideon's state of mind.。
The odds weren't very good to begin with.。
And now they had gotten even worse.。
And so aware of Gideon's weak faith,。
God reassures him, and you'll love this story,。
by arranging for Gideon to overhear a conversation。
between two enemy soldiers.。
Look at the verse I've put on the screen.。
Gideon listens in as two Midianite soldiers。
discuss a strange dream.。
Now remember in ancient times,。
dreams were highly regarded。
as a means of predicting future events.。
And so in the dream,。
a hard loaf of barley bread。
rolls into the Midianite camp。
and flattens one of the tent.。
They conclude that the loaf represents Israel.。
Because remember from John's sermon last week,。
the Midianites had plundered Israel。
and stolen their wheat harvest.。
And so the impoverished Jews had to resort to barley bread.。
Barley bread was regarded at the time。
as a poor man's alternative to wheat.。
And the tent could only represent。
the nomadic, the wandering Midianites.。
It leads one of the soldiers to cry out。
with an awful realisation in Judges 7.14,。
"This can be nothing other than the sword of Gideon,。
son of Joash the Israelite.。
God has given the Midianites。
and the whole camp into his hands."。
Now remember, Gideon was a farmer.。
And like we saw last time,。
he asked for a lot of signs from God。
because he needed a lot of reassurance from God.。
And so this isn't a spot of luck for Gideon.。
This was not by chance.。
This was his sovereign God。
giving him another sign of his own.。
Think about it.。
Think about it.。
God protected Gideon。
during his trip into enemy territory.。
God led Gideon to one specific tent。
and God timed Gideon's arrival。
to hear about a dream and its interpretation.。
And look at what happened to Gideon's faith.。
After he heard those men say those things.。
Verse 15.。
Gideon's fears and doubts had been overcome。
and now he is mentally prepared for the combat.。
Don't you just love to read about the growth of Gideon?。
We see that he went from being a man。
trembling in a wine press。
to a confident general。
ready to lead his outnumbered troops into battle.。
And make no mistake about it.。
Gideon wasn't Winston Churchill.。
He was a farmer.。
He was an unconventional leader by secular standards.。
But once again, we see God's strength being revealed。
by enabling what we would call a weak man to triumph.。
Gideon was being modest。
because he knew that he lacked the resources to overcome。
and he had to rely on God.。
I don't know about you,。
but there's times in my life。
when I felt like that.。
When I realized I just couldn't do something。
or get through something on my own strength.。
What the world does, it sells us self-help books。
and motivational talks。
that will help us to believe in ourselves。
in order for us to become more self-reliant.。
But God strips us bare.。
He forces us to recognize our frailties。
and our inadequacies.。
God shows us that human resources。
are insufficient for the battles we face.。
And it is God who teaches us the lesson of dependence,。
which results in confidence.。
Now the apostle Paul understood this。
when he said in Philippians 4.13,。
you know the verse,。
"I can do all things through him who gives me strength."。
And so with God's power,。
Gideon was able to do all things。
and Gideon was able to boldly go into battle.。
He wasn't confident in his own abilities.。
He certainly wasn't confident in the 300.。
Yes, 300 soldiers he had with him,。
but he went with the confidence。
knowing that his God was right there with him.。
You're gonna love this next bit.。
I wanna take a look at the kind of ammunition。
that Gideon was about to use in battle.。
Look at this verse.。
Now we would expect to read that the 300 men。
would have been armed with swords or bows and arrows.。
But a text said he assembled an army of 300.。
He then divides them into three companies,。
arming them with trumpets, empty clarges,。
or even clay jars and torches.。
Now I don't know about you,。
but it sounds more like Gideon。
was setting up a military band。
or sending some personal suppliers into battle.。
Now remember what the Lord told Gideon in Judges 6.。
We saw it last week.。
The Lord is with you, mighty warrior.。
The lowly farmer is about to become that mighty warrior.。
And Gideon has one thing at that time in his favour.。
And it's this, the element of surprise.。
And so he takes the lead。
and he says to the 300 troops in Judges,。
verses 17 and 18,。
"Watch me, follow my lead.。
"When I get to the edge of the camp,。
"do exactly as I do.。
"When I and all who are with me blow our trumpets,。
"then from all around the camp, blow yours。
"and shout for the Lord and for Gideon."。
And so at Gideon's command,。
they took positions outside the perimeter of the enemy camp.。
Look at this next verse, which tells us what happens.。
We read that during the night,。
there was a sound of 300 jars being smashed on the ground.。
There was the blinding light of 300 torches piercing the darkness。
and the thundering sound of 300 rams horns signaling attack.。
And with one voice, the Israelite army shouted。
a blood-curdling battle cry,。
"A sword for the Lord and for Gideon."。
And what happened next?。
The answer is panic stations for the Midianites.。
Judges 7, 21 to 25 tells us that the Midianite army。
imagined they were being attacked from all sides.。
And because they were totally unprepared,。
this caused confusion and they quickly began attacking each other in the dark,。
not knowing whether it was a friend or a foe.。
The Jewish soldiers held their positions,。
staying a safe distance, socially distance from the deadly chaos before them.。
And that my friends is the story of Judges chapter 7.。
But I just need to summarize what is happening in Judges 8。
because it's all part of Gideon's story.。
In the first 21 verses,。
we see Gideon using the soldiers he had in reserve.。
Remember, he had a very, very full substitutes bench, right?。
He sealed off the enemy escape route。
and his troops go out and capture and kill two key enemy officers.。
In verses 22 to 23, we see that out of gratitude,。
the throne of Israel, the throne of Israel is offered to the deliverer.。
Gideon is urged to become king.。
But to his credit, Gideon unselfishly declines the offer。
to be crowned king of Israel.。
Why? He says in verse 23, he said this to them,。
"The Lord will rule over you."。
Gideon knew that he was only an instrument of God。
and Israel's real king was the Lord himself.。
In verses 24 to 32, it tells us that Gideon continued to serve as a judge。
and live out his days in prosperity.。
And all he asked from his countrymen is a small portion of the captured gold.。
And even then he fashions it into an ephod,。
which was a priestly garment used in worship.。
But what was supposed to be a symbol commemorating Israel's victory,。
regrettably became an object of worship.。
And once again, note what happens after Gideon passes away。
in verses 33 to 34, I'll read them to you.。
"No sooner had Gideon died than the Israelites。
"again prostituted themselves to the Baals.。
"They set up Balbareth as their god,。
"and they did not remember the Lord their God。
"who had rescued them from the hands of all their enemies on every side."。
And so my friends, week after week, we've seen this.。
The cycle continues.。
They get involved in idolatry.。
They end up in a mess.。
They repent, they cry out to God for help.。
God sends them as a deliverer.。
God chooses that person to deliver them.。
And everything is great for a while.。
But as soon as the deliverer dies,。
it starts all over again.。
As we finish,。
let me ask,。
who do we trust?。
Who do you trust?。
When we are faced with impossible odds,。
do we fall apart?。
Or do we fall on our knees in prayer,。
trusting the Lord of hosts?。
And let me just say,。
it is really difficult, if not impossible,。
to have faith in someone you don't know or barely know.。
It's extremely hard to trust someone that you misunderstand。
or are misinformed about.。
What we learned from Gideon is this.。
Gideon's ignorance about the Word of God。
was a strong factor in his ability or his inability to trust God.。
He totally misunderstood the very nature,。
the very character of God.。
And that's why for us Christians,。
knowing God and knowing His Word。
through personal Bible studies,。
through clans are so important.。
Because if we do not live the Word of God in our lives,。
we will show the same unbelief。
and same stubbornness to believe that Gideon had.。
So let me encourage you。
to allow God to use you。
as He used Gideon,。
allowing Him to do great things through you.。
Read your Bible.。
Study your Bible.。
Learn and grow from your Bible.。
Join a clan.。
Follow those who are demonstrating the example of Christ in their lives.。
Gideon was a lonely farmer,。
but with the Lord's help,。
he became a mighty warrior.。
The question is,。
will you finally obey God。
and allow Him to use you。
and help you become the kind of Christian。
that He dearly desires for you to become?。
Let's pray together.。
As a learner of commitment,。
I just want to commit this time to God.。
I just want to commit this time to Him。
and ask you to surrender all you have to Him.。
Lord, would you take me as weak as I am。
and would you use me?。
Lord, help me get to know you better。
and help me, Lord, to allow you。
to have your way in my life。
and to use me。
in Jesus' name.。
I believe that God is going to use people from this church。
in extraordinary ways,。
in ways that you couldn't even imagine.。
Just put yourselves into His hands.。
Now, to help us,。
I've set some study questions.。
I'm going to put them on the screen.。
We'll have them again at the end or you can get them online.。
And I want to take four things that I've said。
and ask you a question about it.。
Number one, I said you cannot be too small for God to use,。
but you can be too big.。
My question is how would you feel。
if you were like Gideon having his army reduced。
from 32,000 to 300?。
Can you think of a practical occasion。
when you've had to face an equivalent challenge?。
Secondly, I said that God shows us that human resources。
are insufficient for the battles we face.。
Can you recall a time。
when you've tried to meet a challenge on your resources alone?。
And what happened when you decided to trust God instead?。
My third question was quite simple.。
Who do we trust?。
My question is this,。
when we're faced with impossible odds,。
do we fall apart or fall on our knees in prayer?。
Do we fall apart or fall on our knees in prayer?。
Trusting the Lord.。
And lastly,。
Gideon's ignorance about the Word of God。
was a strong factor in his ability to trust God.。
And I want to ask you this question,。
what can I do this week and in the future。
and to know His Word,。
how can I encourage others to do the same?。
Let's join in singing this song,。
The Victory is Yours.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
