Hello, good evening everyone.。
Good evening.。
So today we're beginning a new series.。
Does anybody know which book we're studying?。
Good.。
You guys all know how to cheat, right?。
It's right there.。
So it's the First Corinthians.。
Now I do want to give some background and also prepare ourselves for the next few weeks。
on what this is about.。
Now First Corinthians was a letter written by Paul in around 54 to 55 AD.。
So today we'll be looking at the topic of Paul's ministry in Corinth, this place.。
So let's have a look at a quick timetable.。
I mean I tried to get the whole thing on but it was too small.。
So I'll show you the little bits.。
So Paul was converted from Saul, God opening his eyes, around 31 to 36 AD, we don't quite。
know.。
But then he wrote the First Corinthians around 54 to 55 AD.。
You're like, "What does that have to do with me?"。
It's just background information so that we all know.。
So what happened was that Paul went on these missionary trips.。
So on his second round he was actually at Corinth and that was the place where he helped。
build the church there.。
So that's why after he left those people were still connected to him and then they wrote。
letters, not emails then, letters to him telling him what's going on there and what the issues。
were.。
Now what were the issues at Corinth?。
Well there were divisions among the Christians.。
They were about many things.。
For example about immorality, party strife, they were about spiritual gifts and some doctrine。
and also ethical issues.。
So some of them were fighting, some of them were not, but just having discussions.。
So basically Paul is going to use this letter to address many issues that they have been。
having trouble with.。
So for the next few weeks we'll be looking at these topics just for you to have an idea.。
The next slide, basically it will show that we'll have eight, the next one, we'll have。
eight weeks of this topic where we look at different aspects.。
Now a little bit of a background, Corinth is in Greece so we can look at the map just。
for a bit.。
Just give you an idea of where it is and basically it's a city where it's very prosperous.。
So there was a lot of diversity, there were a lot of people, commerce trading, but also。
sexual immorality was also quite present in this entire city as well as there were other。
religions there.。
So people were practicing different kinds of religion and that's why the people, the。
converts, the believers in Corinth also have trouble because the society is dealing with。
things like this and they themselves are a little bit confused as well.。
So it's a metropolitan city kind of like Hong Kong and New York is a very important city。
at that time, kind of equal to Rome and Ephesus.。
So you can look at us kind of in a very similar background where there's a lot of kind of。
a secular world and how they're dealing with things, but also the church is right there。
in the middle.。
So we are trying to now kind of look at today what Paul's ministry is there at Corinth.。
And so Paul begins his letter which is kind of like the way he usually does.。
What would he do in his letters?。
Greetings, right?。
You'll be like greeting the saints, the brother and the sisters, and then he would also be。
reminding them of Jesus Christ's grace.。
So the first few verse, we won't be going through them, but in verse 7 and 9, 7 to 9。
which is in the first chapter, here's what Paul says after his greetings.。
He says, "Therefore you do not lack any spiritual gift as you eagerly wait for our Lord Jesus。
Christ to be revealed.。
He will also keep you firm to the end so that you will be blameless on the day of our Lord。
Jesus Christ.。
God is faithful, who has called you into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord."。
Now here it says that God will keep you firm to the end so that you will be blameless.。
And Paul here is addressing the different issues, right?。
Because obviously they have these divisions and they have all these issues and so they're。
not blameless right now.。
But it says here that Paul is assuring them that at some point they will be blameless.。
And the way that he's gonna do that is because Jesus will be the one that keeps them firm.。
Now anybody here thinks you're blameless?。
When you put up your hand.。
Okay, some people are laughing.。
But in here it says that the church is to be blameless, right?。
Or at least will be.。
But you're very smart in not putting your hand, even though you might think, "I'm very。
close to perfect, but I'm not, so I better not put up my hand and be too arrogant."。
That is the correct move from you.。
But what we do know is there is something that we as Christians and followers of Christ。
should do, which is to try to progress into this blameless status, right?。
We see that.。
Even though in this life we won't get there because there is still sin that we cannot,。
but then it says that one day, the day of our Lord Jesus Christ, we will be absolutely。
blameless.。
Now, does it mean then we should just take a passive attitude, which is, "Well, we're。
not going to be blameless anyways, so let's just go on with our lives as is"?。
Well, definitely not, because one of the things that Paul really wants to address as his ministry。
is to let people know that, "Hey, we are all in progression to this blamelessness."。
And so how is it that we do it?。
In verse nine it says, "God is faithful, who has called you into fellowship with his。
Son Jesus Christ our Lord."。
What does that mean?。
Well, it means that in order to be blameless, it is not from our own efforts.。
Like even if I wanted to change into someone who is in certain ways, I can't do it.。
And you probably can't change some of the behaviors or attitudes that you have as well.。
But what we see here is that God is faithful.。
He's going to be the one that does it.。
But how?。
How is he going to help us to become this blameless person, follower?。
It says here, which is, "Fellowship with his Son."。
Fellowship with his Son Jesus Christ our Lord is the key.。
So this brings us to our first point, that we need to be blameless through the fellowship。
with Jesus Christ.。
Now I mean, it seems like all these words we know, it sounds good, "Fellowship with。
God," right?。
And then we also hear other verses where it says, "He is the vine, we're the branches,"。
right?。
Sounds really good.。
But you're like, "But what does that mean?"。
Like if I tell you, "Okay, you can have a fellowship with your friends."。
You're like, "Okay, you know, we can go and eat, chat, and maybe play a few games.。
I'm fellowshiping with them."。
But how is it that we can fellowship with God in such a way that we are going to become。
more blameless?。
We're in this progression.。
How do we do that?。
Well, I mean, the thing that we can do to fellowship with God is that what we need to。
do, let's say early in the morning, right?。
I mean, we wake up, I don't know what your first thoughts are.。
Some of us like, "Oh, I want to sleep some more."。
And other, if we're going through some problems with our lives, I'm pretty sure that's the。
first thing that comes to your mind, which is like, "Oh, how come that issue isn't solved。
yet?"。
Or like, "Oh, am I going to find the job that I want?。
Oh, I've been waiting to meet someone.。
How come I still haven't met them yet?"。
Or if you're having relational issues, you're like, "Wait a minute, how come it doesn't。
seem to be resolved?。
It's like already day 300 and...。
Wait, day 1,000, let's say."。
And it just seems like the issue keeps going on, right?。
And how do we fellowship with God?。
Is to invite God into our minds, into our hearts right away.。
You can say, instead of feeling like, "Oh, I'm never going to get out of this issue.。
I don't know how to fix it.。
You know, nothing's ever going to change.。
I'm hopeless."。
Immediately, use the truth because Jesus is the way, the truth in life, right?。
Immediately use the truth that God has told us about Jesus to have fellowship with Him.。
Instead of feeling like, "Oh, I'm hopeless.。
I can't do anything."。
You're like, "I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me."。
Immediately think of His promise.。
What did He just promise here?。
He says, "He's going to keep me firm to the end.。
I'm going to fellowship with God through His words.。
I'm going to remember what He said."。
And what does He say?。
He says, "We're the head and not the tail, above and not beneath.。
And we can do all things through Christ who strengthens me."。
And imagine our day starting like that.。
Maybe we didn't even want to get out of bed.。
Maybe we didn't think that there would be an outcome because we've been waiting for。
changes for so long.。
But if we fellowship with our Lord Jesus Christ, then we're going to wake up that day and we're。
going to say, "I'm all pumped up.。
I'm ready for today."。
And of course, five minutes later, we go back to where we were, right?。
Then fellowship with Him again.。
Fellowship with Him again and say, "He loves me and He has something prepared for me.。
And He's ready even though it looks like nothing is changing, but He's working for me."。
And as we do that, it's like we're a plug and we just plug into this electricity.。
And that's where we're going to get fueled.。
So when we say we are to be blameless, we're not doing it by ourselves, but through the。
fellowship, this constant plugging in to God, and that's how He is going to change us.。
And we constantly have that fellowship with Him.。
So if there's a habit you want to change, or there's something you want to see God helping。
you, and if you are struggling with emotions, then this is what the Scripture is telling。
us.。
And when we fellowship with Him, slowly but surely, we will be changed by Him and His。
words are going to help us.。
So as we read on, we know that Paul's first ministry, or I shouldn't say first or second,。
but one of his ministry, is to help the people in Corinth and also to remind us that we are。
on a path to becoming blameless.。
And if we want to, it says here that we can do it through the fellowship with Jesus Christ.。
Now the next ministry that Paul does is actually to address unity.。
And he says in verse 10, also in chapter 1, that, "I appeal to you, brothers and sisters,。
in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree with one another in what。
you say, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you will be perfectly united。
in mind and thought."。
So apparently there were reports to Paul.。
What was happening in that context was that some people claimed that, "Oh, I follow the。
leader Apollo.。
I follow the other leader, Cephas, which is Peter.。
Or I follow the leader Paul, which is the author of this book."。
And he's saying, "No, you don't follow any of these people.。
There's only one person that we follow, and that's Jesus Christ, because He is the only。
one that died on a cross and resurrected for you and me."。
And so when we know that, we know that there's division there.。
And actually there's division among us as well, at church maybe with your brothers and。
sister and maybe at home as well.。
There's division.。
But in here, notice it says that you, that all of you, not just some of you, all of you。
are to agree with one another in what you say, and there be no divisions among you,。
but that you be perfectly united in mind and thought.。
How can we do that?。
I mean, you and I obviously have different brought ups.。
We have different values and things that you prioritize, I may not prioritize.。
How do we have this unity?。
And it says perfect unity.。
Well if we look carefully, Jesus actually doesn't, Paul here doesn't ask us to have。
no disagreement at all, but it actually says unity.。
Unity is different than being different.。
So I might like the color blue, you might like the color pink.。
You want spaghetti, I want steak, that's totally fine.。
We don't have to be the same, but we need to be in unity.。
And he gives us this clue, which is in the front where it says, "In the name of our Lord。
Jesus Christ."。
Which means that we need to be in unity in those things that Lord Jesus Christ has taught。
us, the truth in the Bible, we need to be in unity.。
But other things, we can be different.。
We can be different.。
And so this brings us to our second point or the second ministry that Paul is really。
trying to help us, which is to have unity, but in our Lord Jesus Christ.。
What that means is, if you are still your own Lord, and I'm still my own Lord, we're。
gonna have very different standards of what the truths are and what we want.。
But if both of us, or all of us have the same Lord, and we're focusing on the same truth,。
we should be able to arrive to that unity.。
Now one of those issues is because remember, we were trying to be blameless, right?。
We're on our progression on that.。
But some of us might be slightly ahead, and some of us might have just been starting.。
And so there might be a discrepancy because we're not on the same page yet, but we're。
in that direction.。
And so Paul's ministry is trying to tell those people, "Hey, these are where your differences。
are, and this is where we can align ourselves, but in Christ and only in the truth."。
So I mean, what are those truths?。
And from Mark 7, 21 to 23, I don't have it on the PowerPoint, but just letting you know。
some of the things that Jesus has already told his disciples and also to us, what isn't。
good and what are those?。
Those are evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, malice, deceit,。
lewdness, envy, slander, arrogance, folly.。
These things we cannot agree on.。
If someone is doing sin or someone is sinning, if someone's not following this, this is not。
telling us because we need to be in unity, even though these are happening, it's okay.。
We're not covering it.。
No, because many times in the Bible, not only Paul, but many of the disciples, they would。
confront these things and they will even have discussions.。
If one person isn't enough, bring in two.。
And if that person still doesn't change, actually you might want to kick them, not might, but。
you kick them out of the church.。
So this kind of unity that we're talking about is not accepting all things, but that we're。
moving towards our Lord Jesus Christ.。
If it has to do with the truth, we need to stand firm in a loving way for each other。
because sometimes it's us that needs to have that humbleness to hear.。
And then other times is where we bring our brothers and sisters back on track.。
But not only that, but there are also other teachings such as like, in your anger, do。
not sin.。
Do not let the sun go down while you're still angry.。
This one I always have trouble with because I'm like, oh, it's already 7pm in the evening。
time.。
Should I consider the next day because the sun has already gone down, you know?。
We're trying to cheat our way to have another 24 hours, right?。
But what it really means is that, well, if we want to have this unity, we can't just。
listen to some of the things that the Bible says and then disregard some of them.。
We need to together be focused on our Lord Jesus Christ and that's how we'll have unity。
at home, at our church, with our brothers and sisters.。
And if we don't do that, we won't be able to have this perfect unity.。
And you know, I remember an uncle once says, you know, "Oh, you Christians, you guys are。
just hypocrites."。
You're like, "Oh, what do you mean?"。
I mean, there are many things he could have meant.。
And then he says, "Well, you know, you guys pray for God's blessings and then if they。
follow what you do, then someone else might be losing out."。
And I'm like, "What do you mean?"。
And he's like, "Well, okay, for example, you're selling your house, right?。
So you pray, 'God, please let me sell it at a really high price so that I can make a lot。
of money out of this,' right?。
And if you pray that prayer, what happens is the other person who's buying it is going。
to pay a larger amount of money and they're losing on their end, right?。
And also, like, if you're praying for your spouse or a significant other, you're like,。
"Oh, God, please change him or her."。
But then that person is going to be suffering because they don't want to do whatever it。
is that you might want them to change.。
And so it seems like if we use our own perspective still, we're still going to be striving.。
We're still going to have this division.。
So what and how can we do it?。
Is that we focus back on God, our Lord Jesus.。
I mean, pray like this, "God, I pray that I would sell this house at a reasonable price。
in a way that's God-honoring.。
And Father, I pray that I could be that wife or that husband.。
Show me what else I could do.。
Or if there's some issues, tell me how I can approach it.。
Or if you have work, you know, your career might be like just off and you're not too。
sure what to do with it.。
Instead of saying, "Oh, I want a high-paying job or that," pray instead, "God, where would。
you place me so that it would be God-honoring to you?"。
And when our eyes all start to verge at where Jesus is, then we're going to be able to have。
this unity because everybody will have their own self-seeking side of us where we want。
things this way.。
But let us, according to what Paul is also asking the church, let us focus back on Christ。
Jesus, on their truth.。
And those things that are not on the truth, try to live in peace.。
Don't say, "You want to eat here tonight?。
I don't.。
That's fine," or other things.。
So allow us to be reminded that that's what we need to do.。
And then Paul continues on, and really this other way that he ministers to Corinth, the。
people there, and also to us, is that he reminds us what true wisdom is.。
Now in verse 18, he says, "For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are。
perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God."。
Now for a non-believer, seeing Christ crucified, that's foolishness because Jesus died, gained。
nothing.。
But for a believer, Christ crucified is the most amazing thing.。
Not only did he die for us, but he resurrected so that we would have eternal life forever.。
That is not foolishness.。
That is wise.。
And as we read on in verse 25 to 31, it says, "For the foolishness of God is wiser than。
human wisdom, and the weakness of God is stronger than human strength."。
Brothers and sisters, think of what you were when you were called.。
Not many of you were wise by human standards.。
Not many were influential.。
Not many were of noble birth.。
But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise.。
God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong.。
God chose the lowly things of this world and the despised things and the things that are。
not to nullify the things that are, so that no one may boast before him.。
It is because of him that you are in Christ Jesus, who has become for us wisdom from God.。
That is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption.。
Therefore, as it is written, "Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord."。
So we see that Paul says that God is using what is foolish and who the weak ones are。
and the lowly in the eyes of the world to shame those who are wise and strong.。
So FYI, we all Christians, we're the foolish ones.。
We're the weak ones.。
We're the lowly ones.。
And yet God uses us to be able to shame the world.。
And so when we think about it, we need to have this mindset of humbleness where it's。
not us.。
We haven't done anything.。
Actually, in fact, we're the foolish ones.。
We're the ones that are not born of noble status.。
So this really brings us to the third kind of ministry that overall we're going to see。
Paul doing, which is to have true wisdom in Jesus Christ.。
Now, how is it that we can have this true wisdom?。
Is not to see things with our worldly vision or understanding.。
True wisdom is knowing that we're nobody without Christ.。
Do you really think you're nobody without Christ?。
Most of us think, "Well, I mean, I know I'm not that much, but I'm not sure if I'm nobody。
without Christ."。
But actually when we come to realize that we really are no one without Him, we can't。
even survive one day without Him.。
Then we're coming closer to this truth, to this wisdom.。
And unless we have that, we can't.。
If we still think, "Oh, I stand here on the stage because of me.。
A part of it, it's me.。
Or I'm singing worship because a part of it is me."。
Or whatever it is that you do in your work, a part of it, it's me.。
Then we still haven't seen the fullness of His wisdom, which is, it's all about Him.。
It is Him that lives in us that we're able to do anything at all.。
It's Him that gave us that breath that we're even able to have our hearts pumping.。
And so this is a ministry work that Paul is trying to remind the people of Corinth and。
also us.。
Now remember the story of Gideon in the book of Judges.。
So the Israelites, they were captured by these Midianites for seven years.。
So they were captured.。
And so God has raised Gideon and said, "All right, fight against the Midianites."。
And how many men does he have?。
He has 32,000 Israelites fighting against 120,000.。
So if numbers is not your favorite thing, it's one quarter, okay?。
25% of that fighting force.。
So if that translates into the probability of them winning, that's 25%.。
But God says, "No, no, no, there's too many of you guys.。
Because if you win now, you're going to think it's because of you, not because of me."。
So he asked Gideon, "Whoever is afraid, whoever's in fear, just ask them to go home."。
So there was 10,000 men left.。
So 10,000 men, God still says, "It's too much."。
But you know, 10,000 men is one over 12.。
It's about, is it 8% or so?。
And so to us, we'll be like, "Well, 25% was better than 8%, right?。
But now we're down to 8%.。
And yet God still says, "It's too much, too many people."。
So he asked Gideon, "Ask the people to go to the river.。
And as they are drinking the water, those who lap like the dogs, ask them to leave."。
And so there are 300 men left.。
And do you know what 300 over 120,000 men, what is that percentage?。
I had done the math with my calculator.。
It's 0.25%.。
That is less than 1%.。
Honestly, I want to say that is foolishness in anybody's eyes.。
Why would you have 32,000 men and not fight with them and then use 300 men?。
I'm pretty sure God can just use one.。
And if you wanted to, none.。
But what does that say?。
It means that true wisdom is this realization that we are insignificant and that it's all。
about God and his risen power.。
And he is the one that will give us true wisdom.。
He's the one that we need to and should lean onto.。
I don't know about you, whatever issues that you're facing, whether it's marriage, whether。
it is your work, whether it's singleness and you're still waiting, or rather it is your。
working situation, maybe you think things aren't getting better.。
Things are actually getting worse.。
And it looks like there's no way out for I don't know how many years to go.。
There seems to be no end to this problem or issue, maybe a health issue as well.。
But if we have true wisdom, we're going to lean on to Jesus.。
Now I still remember when I was single and I was like 20 something.。
And then I still remember where I felt like, okay, I still got like 50% of getting married。
or maybe 25.。
I don't quite know.。
There's like a certain percentage in my mind, right?。
So as I progress older, I'm like, wait, I think it's dropping a little bit.。
Wait, wait, dropping a little bit more.。
And so over time, it just seems like, oh, it's going to be harder and harder.。
But if we, and God at that time gave me more faith that Jesus Christ is the key, he is。
the wisdom of this world, not the percentages.。
He can work with 0.25.。
And I mean, I'm not that young, although I am still quite young, but not that young.。
And considering that I'm pregnant, even that to me was very hard.。
Each year I was like, all right, you read about it.。
All right, you just dropped however many percent.。
And this year I'm 38.。
I don't mind telling you guys.。
I used to put it on Facebook, I think.。
But what I want to say is true wisdom, because the possibility, I don't know, I don't want。
to calculate.。
I don't know the calculation.。
But I wanted to say, oh, even my sister, by the way, oh, does anybody know?。
Okay, I'm exposing my sister.。
She's in China.。
She can't do anything about it.。
So after God allowed me to get pregnant, I told her, oh, God showed me this way.。
And now she's also pregnant.。
She's like six years older than I am.。
I mean, and she's been wanting to have a baby sometime.。
But I always wanted to say that true wisdom isn't depending on us to solve the issue,。
isn't dependent on us to figure out more things and be more anxious.。
It is true wisdom in Christ.。
It's knowing that He is our ultimate person that we depend on.。
We don't depend on anyone else but Him.。
Because there's just a bit of us that's still trying to depend on ourselves.。
We don't, when we haven't arrived to this true wisdom.。
And now this isn't an escape for those who are like, oh, well, in that case, you know。
what, let me sit back and do nothing.。
No, just because true wisdom comes from God, we still need to do our part.。
We still need to do whatever it is that God asked us, which remember earlier what they。
were, for example, unity, fellowshipping with Jesus Christ.。
You can't just, like I don't want you to have, okay, you know what, I'm just not going to。
do anything.。
I won't send out my resume.。
It's going to come knocking on my door.。
I'll keep myself fat and never exercise and expect to have a baby.。
So it isn't a way out for us to do nothing.。
It is a way for us to be obedient to God.。
What He says, what He tells us to do, when we follow Him and realize the outcome is in。
His hand, we're not going to try to grasp it because with 0.25%, He can do miracles.。
He can turn water into wine.。
He's the one that has risen from the tomb.。
My goodness, risen from the tomb.。
I'm out.。
So there's nothing that our God cannot do.。
And so the ministry that Paul really is not only to the people in Corinth, but to us and。
many of his letters, he really wants us to know the resurrected Jesus.。
He wants us to be one with Him.。
So let us really ponder or prepare ourselves that we are to be blameless.。
That is the goal and God is helping us if we let Him.。
We're not going to become blameless if we don't fellowship with Him and continue our。
ways.。
All we do is we might get salvation and that's it, but we're not going to become blameless.。
But if you and I want to be His followers, we need to fellowship with Him, read His word,。
bow His words every day, every moment that the evil spirits try to tell us that you can't。
do this, you can't do that, or nothing's ever going to change.。
That's the moment we fellowship with God.。
That's the moment we're going to have a breakthrough.。
And then to come together as a unity.。
Don't break the unity.。
The only person that wants the unity to be broken is Satan.。
But as followers of Christ, let us not fall into that trap.。
If God speaks to you in a particular way to ask you to follow Him, be obedient in certain。
ways, you go and you do it.。
You just listen to Him and you do it.。
No questions asked.。
And the last thing really is to have that true wisdom.。
Obedient on God, because He is the ultimate person that can do anything.。
So we really need to surrender to Him.。
I pray that this is for all of us.。
No longer ourselves, no longer our own lords, but that He is our Lord Jesus Christ.。
No longer dependent on our power or holding on to the outcome, but knowing that He is。
a God who can do anything and He loves you and He will do that.。
So I pray that, you know, let us surrender ourselves.。
Let us not be like Saturday night Christians.。
I know another time will be Sunday Christians, right?。
But not just like two hours coming in, check, you know, I'm done my like duty.。
But that let Him change us.。
Let us surrender to Him to never be the same again.。
Let Him really be our Lord and Savior.。
Okay, let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you.。
We thank you that you're the perfecter of our faith, that you did not come to save us。
and then just leave us be.。
But you came to save us so that we can have life more abundantly.。
You came to save us to be our Lord so that you can change us, you can make us like you.。
You came for us so that we would have life, true life.。
And Father, we pray that we surrender ourselves to you, that every day with our problems or。
with our happiness, Father, we will fellowship with you.。
You're the person that we go to.。
And that Father, any day of the week, any time, Father, we remember that you are the。
Lord that does impossible things.。
Help us to continue to just depend on you and not ourselves.。
Father, help us to keep that unity.。
You love unity.。
You love us to love each other.。
And so Father, we pray that we'll surrender ourselves more and to have you totally take。
over us.。
And we pray for the day where we see you and we be blameless because you've sustained。
us.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
