As Ecclesiastes can appear a rather depressing book at first glance, I wanted to share with。
you Sandra and I's happy place in Hong Kong.。
It is, of course, Hong Kong Disneyland.。
Now everyone says, "Is it because you take the grandkids?"。
But the truth is no.。
Inevitably it's just the two of us.。
Now being big kids, I've put another picture up there, being big kids in what Disney describe。
as a magical place where there are no emails, WhatsApps, or people asking for help and advice.。
And my favorite is the Lion King.。
I'll tell you why.。
30 minutes of air conditioning.。
If you've ever trudged around Disney, especially in the humid Hong Kong summer, you'll know。
what I mean.。
The Lion King story revolves around the Elton John and Tim Rice song, "The Circle of Life."。
Circles have no beginning and no end.。
If we start anywhere in a circle and we follow it around, we end up in a loop coming back。
to where we started.。
It makes me wonder if Simba and Co. got their inspiration from Ecclesiastes.。
They certainly would if they'd listened to Pastor Michelle's excellent sermon last week.。
Michelle spoke about an English word that few of us ever use in our everyday language,。
futility.。
And what I loved was her use of the Hebrew word, havel.。
Do you remember she asked us to grasp the air?。
You remember we all did this?。
Michelle told us that the word havel appears 30 times in Ecclesiastes.。
Essentially havel means things are insubstantial or fleeting and have no purpose.。
Futile.。
Lacking substance.。
Michelle told us that all is vanity.。
Everything is havel.。
Profitless.。
Purposeless.。
It cannot be grasped.。
And it was fleeting.。
Nothing really has a point and you can't hold onto it.。
I remember when I was as a younger man in the corporate world.。
We had these things called KPIs, key performance indicators.。
Some of you will recognise those.。
The business was run on KPIs.。
KPIs provided targets for teams to shoot for, milestones to gauge progress,。
and insights to help people across the organisation make better decisions.。
When we are tied to a corporation or an organisation, our lives seem to revolve around KPIs.。
And I remember we were paid bonuses.。
Yes, I remember bonuses through a system called MBO, management by objective.。
Achieve your MBO.。
That was your holiday.。
That was your new TV.。
Or should I say on the screen, a new pair of Stephen Curry 413 basketball shoes.。
But can I say, 20 years on, what difference has achieving or not my MBOs made?。
Is the world a better place?。
Can I actually even remember what my MBOs or my KPIs were?。
And this is what the writer of Ecclesiastes, now whether that was Solomon or not, we discussed that last week,。
it's what the writer of Ecclesiastes was driving at.。
And what we're going to look at tonight in the rest of chapter one,。
is the writer tells us four things.。
He said, nothing seems to change.。
Nothing seems to satisfy.。
Nothing is new under the sun.。
And nothing is understood.。
We're back on futility.。
Havel, what's the point?。
Or is it pointless?。
Let's look at these one at a time.。
Firstly, nothing seems to change.。
And the first piece of evidence is the earth.。
From a human point of view, nothing seems more durable than the planet on which we live.。
Generations come and go whilst the earth abides forever.。
That's a common expression, don't we? As sure as the world.。
I must say, just going off the subject for a moment, I'm heartened by the work of today's generation,。
especially the younger pioneers to save our planet.。
But the writer is stressing that whilst nature is fundamentally permanent, notwithstanding what we're doing to it,。
man is transient.。
In verse four, we see expressed very clearly the brevity of life.。
And the certainty of death.。
A generation goes, a generation comes.。
But the earth remains forever.。
The 19th century Scottish essayist Thomas Carlyle said this.。
History is a mighty drama enacted upon the theatre of time with suns for lamps and eternity for a background.。
You see, the costumes and the sets may change, but the actors and the script remain pretty much the same.。
The second piece of evidence is the sun.。
As we move now from the cycle of birth and death.。
To the cycle of day and night in the heavens.。
I need to tell you that the sun is constant with its rising and its setting.。
The expression as sure as the world is replaced by another one as certain as night follows day.。
Verse five says this.。
The sun rises.。
The sun goes down and hastens to the place where it rises.。
I know it's been very hot this week here and especially in Europe.。
I have to say, those pictures I saw of houses burning and things.。
And you can tell when the world's turned upside down when there's floods in Sydney and there's bushfires in London, right?。
But as far as the heavens are concerned, one day it's just like another.。
And the heavens remain the same.。
Our third piece of evidence is the wind.。
Look at this, verse six.。
The wind blows to the south and goes around to the north.。
Around and around goes the wind and on circuits the wind returns.。
This is not a physics lesson.。
This is an observation.。
The winds continue their whirling cycle.。
Yes, we get typhoons here in Hong Kong and we've seen hurricanes, cyclones and more often than not, the gentle breeze in the trees.。
But after all changing direction, it is still the wind.。
Man comes and goes.。
Michel used the word vapour. But the changeless wind goes on forever.。
The fourth and last piece of evidence is the sea.。
The writer describes the water cycle also as rivers run into the sea, then through evaporation and rain returns to the rivers again.。
Scientists tell me that at any time, 97% of all the water in the earth is in the oceans.。
And that only 0.0001% is in the atmosphere, available for rain.。
I think we got most of it two weeks ago, didn't we?。
Read this. All streams run to the sea, but the sea is not full.。
To the place where the streams flow, there they flow again.。
The river and rain run into the sea, but the sea never changes.。
And so, whether we look to the earth or the heavens, the wind, the waves, we arrive at the conclusion that nature doesn't change.。
No wonder the author seems to agree with the author of The Lion King.。
That life is just one big circle. And that frankly, life is not worth living.。
And they would be right.。
If you leave God out of the picture.。
The world would be predictable, unchangeable, with no answers to prayers, no miracles.。
God imprisoned by the laws of nature.。
But you and I know differently.。
The God we know splits the sea so we can walk right through it.。
And we can sing it, echoing the exodus and the parting of the Red Sea.。
We pray for the rain, the wind, the fire of the spirit to fall upon us.。
We no longer live in a closed system of endless monotonous cycles.。
We live in this world as pilgrims and not as prisoners.。
But this writer, oh my goodness, he's not going to let up.。
His next argument is this, oh, nothing seems to satisfy.。
He says all things are full of weariness.。
A man cannot utter it.。
The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.。
When I was young, I remember the Rolling Stones, it's probably only me and you, Joseph.。
The Rolling Stones singing, I can't get no satisfaction. Do you remember that?。
I can't get no satisfaction.。
Human nature is always clamouring for more.。
Despite all our labours, man is never truly satisfied.。
And the entertainment industry, they see this hunger and they take advantage.。
And they make billions as a result.。
I want to tell you something.。
The eye cannot be satisfied until it sees the hand of God.。
The ear cannot be satisfied until it hears the voice of God.。
Let us submit to him and only then will we be satisfied.。
I love this verse from Isaiah 58 verse 11.。
And the Lord will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and make your bones strong.。
You shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail.。
But the writer of Ecclesiastes, he's persistent, he still doesn't give up.。
He says, there's nothing new under the sun.。
Let's read it.。
What has been is what will be.。
And what has been done is what will be done.。
There is nothing new under the sun.。
Is there a thing of which it said, see, this is new?。
It's already been in the ages before us.。
There is no remembrance of former things, nor will there be remembrance of later things yet to be among those who come after.。
I've put a quote on the screen.。
Robert Schindler, a Baptist pastor and a close associate of Charles Spurgeon, wrote this.。
If it's new, it's not true.。
If it's true, it's not new.。
We need to remember that man is the creature.。
It is God alone who is the creator.。
The problem is we have bad memories.。
We don't read the minutes of the previous meeting.。
Verse 11 simply says, we simply don't remember the past, nor will the future remember the present.。
The Christian follows a God who says, behold, I am doing a new thing.。
That is, writer now suddenly changes his hats.。
He suddenly changes hats from historian to philosopher.。
He's putting on his preacher hat.。
Michel told us that the Hebrew word was kohelef.。
And then talks about his own search for wisdom before coming to the conclusion that all human wisdom is futile.。
And his fourth point was this.。
He said, nothing's understood.。
I want to read this in one chunk for you before picking it apart.。
I, the preacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem.。
And I applied my heart to seek and search out by wisdom all that is done under heaven.。
It's an unhappy business that God has given to the children of man to be busy with.。
I've seen everything that's done under the sun.。
And behold, all is vanity and is striving under the wind.。
What is crooked cannot be made straight.。
What is lacking cannot be counted.。
He said, in my heart, I've acquired great wisdom, surpassing all that were over Jerusalem before me.。
And my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.。
And I applied my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly.。
I perceive that this also is but a striving after the wind.。
For in much wisdom is much vexation.。
And he who increases knowledge increases sorrow.。
What I want to do, I want to look at this in three parts.。
Number one, the first part is the preacher describes his search.。
He reminds us he was king over Israel in Jerusalem.。
He determined, he said, I applied my heart to use wisdom and search all that has been done under heaven.。
A task that he understood God had given all men to challenge them.。
I want you to look at this statement.。
A statement about life itself in verse 13.。
It is unhappy business that God has given to the children of man to be busy with.。
Now that's the ESV.。
The message puts it like this.。
Now let me tell you, there's not much to write home about.。
God hasn't made it easy for us.。
You don't need me to tell you that life is tough.。
Other Bible versions talk about life as a grievous task, a miserable fate, a terrible burden.。
But what verse 13 tells us that while life is tough, it is a gift from God.。
I was sitting at home the other night having a, I had a woe is me day.。
It seemed like everything that could go wrong, so went wrong.。
And I was sitting at home, like feeling sorry for myself when I heard a bird singing outside.。
It was if the bird was saying to me, yeah, it's been quite a day.。
I've been avoiding predators all day and having to scrap for bits of food for me and my little ones.。
I've done nothing but fight to survive.。
But at the end of the day, I've still got the breath and the will to sing.。
I was immediately reminded of Phil Wickham's song, Sing.。
He says this, "For the cross that you bore and the debt that you paid,。
for the victory you won over death and the grave, this is the reason I sing.。
For the hope that you give and the joy that you bring, for the promise that heaven is waiting for me.。
This is the reason I sing."。
Life is indeed a gift from God.。
And it doesn't get any easier if you try and run away from it.。
Look at verse 14, "I have seen everything that is done under the sun,。
and behold all is vanity and is striving after the wind."。
The writer, the preacher is saying that all works done under the sun。
never truly satisfy the heart.。
And we start looking for things that will fill the gap.。
Both the workaholic, we've got a few in Hong Kong, right?。
The workaholic and the alcoholic are running away from reality.。
But we only make life harder by trying to escape.。
Instead of running away from God, we should run to God and let him make a life worth living.。
Referencing our emotional health series here at KFCI,。
I am more than deeply saddened by the prevalence of suicides and attempted suicides,。
particularly of our younger people here in Hong Kong and elsewhere.。
My friends, we must never stop reaching out to people around us.。
But for those of us that are making a choice to live,。
we also need to make a choice how to live.。
Back to Ecclesiastes 1, we find a proverb, a popular saying in verse 15,。
"What is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted."。
I'll put it in English.。
The past cannot always be changed,。
and it is pointless to fret on what you might have done.。
I always say, those of you who know me well,。
those two useless words in the English language are "should have."。
What we have done wrong cannot normally be righted,。
except that we must remember that God has the power to straighten what is twisted and supply what is lacking.。
I know. Why?。
He took this twisted individual, me, and took all my past mistakes and failures.。
He nailed them to a cross, and he set me free.。
For a child of God, the past, even with our sins and mistakes, is a rudder that guides us forward.。
I'm going to say that again.。
For a child of God, the past, even with our sins and mistakes, is a rudder that guides us forward.。
Let's look to wrap this up as we return to the preacher.。
We look at the preacher applying his God-given wisdom.。
He acknowledged the greatness and the wisdom he'd attained.。
He had PhDs coming out of his ears, right? He had so much of it.。
He therefore sought to apply it to understand wisdom, madness, and folly.。
Let's read what he said.。
I said in my heart, I've acquired great wisdom, surpassing all who were over Jerusalem before me.。
And my heart has great experience of wisdom and knowledge.。
And I applied my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly.。
I perceived that this also is but a striving after wind.。
Quite often, wisdom, wisdom and knowledge, wisdom and experience will not solve every problem.。
For a start, there are no explanations for some things that happen.。
I have no explanation for what's happened to Brian and Marissa this week.。
I'll be honest with you.。
But perhaps more importantly, God wants his people to live on promises and not on explanations.。
Can I say that again?。
God wants his people to live on promises and not explanations.。
To live by sight and not, sorry, to live by faith and not by sight.。
Sorry, Alison, you put me off there.。
I thought I'd said something to upset you and you were running out.。
To live by faith and not by sight.。
The preacher's great wisdom only added to his difficulties.。
For so often, wisdom and knowledge can simply add to sorrow and grief.。
The more we seek wisdom and knowledge, the more it becomes obvious just how ignorant we are.。
I find the more I learn, the less I know.。
The more I learn, I find myself more saying it depends.。
Maybe, possibly, or the infamous I don't know.。
T.S. Eliot who wrote Cats once wrote this.。
All of our knowledge brings us nearer to our ignorance.。
I think he got his inspiration from Ecclesiastes 1 which concludes like this.。
The preacher concluding that human wisdom is futile.。
He says this.。
I perceive that this is also but a striving after the wind.。
For in much wisdom is much vexation.。
And he who increases knowledge increases sorrow.。
The old proverb states a wise man is never happy.。
But it doesn't have to be like that.。
And this is the most important line I'm going to speak this evening.。
So listen to this.。
For the Christian life is an open door and not a closed circle.。
Can I say that again?。
The Christian life is an open door and not a closed circle.。
I and others can testify that they experience daily new blessings from the Lord.。
I can't explain everything.。
But my life is not built on explanations.。
It's built on promises.。
I read that there are between 5,000 and 8,000 promises in the Bible.。
That puts us in a privileged position.。
I mean, look at the scientist.。
He or she wants to tell you that the world is a closed system and that nothing has changed.。
Look at the historian who tells us life is a closed box and nothing is new.。
Look at the philosopher who tells us that life is a deep problem and that nothing is understood.。
But Jesus Christ, whom Paul describes as the power of God and the wisdom of God,。
has miraculously broken into history to bring new life to all who trust him.。
My friend, if you are living in circles, it's time to change your tune.。
It's time to change your tune, maybe from the circle of life to perhaps a Kuna Matata.。
But better still, to turn your eyes upon Jesus and to put your trust in him.。
If you stand and go ask the band or at least Paul the band to come up and lead us in this song.。
We're going to sing this song together, "Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus."。
We sang a few new songs tonight.。
This is one that's an old song. You'll know this.。
I remember singing it at Sunday school, it shows how old it is.。
Turn your eyes upon Jesus, look full in his wonderful face,。
and the things of life will go strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace.。
And at the end of it, Johnny will come up and pray for us.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
