Good evening church, how are you?。
Great, wow, not a lively crowd tonight.。
We're talking about women in the Bible。
and we've been going through this amazing series so far.。
Pastor John kicked us off with who?。
Eve, that's right, that's right.。
And then last week, Julian did an amazing job。
and told us about the story of Sarah.。
And today we're gonna go through the story of Rebecca。
and who knows a Rebecca in their life?。
Who knows a Rebecca in their life?。
It's a very common name and we're gonna learn。
about the story of Rebecca in the Old Testament.。
It's spelled a little differently, right?。
It's spelled with a K, not with a C.。
Modern day, most people are spelled with a C.。
So we're gonna talk about the story of Rebecca。
and it starts off with the story of Abraham.。
Now Abraham knew he was getting old, right?。
And he wanted his son to get married.。
And so he went to his servant, it says in verse two,。
"I swear by the Lord that you will not take a wife。
"for my son from the daughter of the Canaanites。
"among whom I dwell, but go to my country,。
"to my kindred and take a wife for my son there."。
And so this servant made that commitment.。
He made this bold commitment to serve Abraham.。
And so he took 10 of his master's camels。
and departed with a lot of gifts, okay?。
Imagine 10 camels, who's been to the desert before?。
Rode on camels, very good.。
It wasn't the most comfortable ride.。
It wasn't like being in a limousine.。
But 10 camels, lots of gifts, and this is where he went.。
So he went from Hebron, we'll see in the next slide here,。
Hebron, and then he went up to Haran.。
And then where was Abraham from?。
He was from Ur.。
And these people, what did they worship?。
They sort of worshiped the stars.。
They were astronomers, astrologers, right?。
And so he went to Ur.。
And he went to Ur with this sort of prayer to God.。
God, now the person, the woman that I meet,。
may this woman give me a drink。
because it's been a really long journey,。
1,450 kilometers, right?。
If you go around the desert.。
And I pray that after she gives me a drink,。
she will also say that she would give a drink。
to my camels as well.。
And so we read on in verse 13.。
It says, "Behold, I am standing at the spring of water,。
"and the daughters of the men of the city。
"are coming to draw water.。
"Let this woman be what I prayed for."。
And so we see a picture, sort of a painting。
from some Italian painter.。
And this is sort of the servant in the middle here.。
And then you see Rebecca by the well there.。
And so as soon as the servant prayed this prayer,。
there was Rebecca, verse 15.。
Before he had finished praying,。
"Behold, Rebecca, who was born of Bethuel,。
"the son of Michal, and the wife of Nahor,。
"Abraham's brother, came out with her jar of water。
"on her shoulder."。
This young woman was very attractive in appearance.。
"A maiden whom no man has known,。
"she went down to the spring and filled her jar and came up.。
"Then the servant ran to meet her and said,。
"'Please give me a water to drink from your jar.'。
"And she said, 'Drink, my lord.'。
"And she quickly let down her jar upon her hand。
"and gave him a drink.。
"When she had finished giving him a drink,。
"she said, 'I will draw water for your camels also,'。
"until they have finished drinking.。
"So she quickly emptied her jar。
"and went to fill it with water to help the camels drink."。
So anyways, that's the story.。
Do you know how many liters camels actually drink?。
Do you know how many liters camels actually drink?。
20 gallons of water, okay?。
That's 75 liters, 75 liters.。
So imagine 10 camels, all right?。
75 liters each.。
And maybe your jar is,。
well, it can't be more than one of those liter,。
I don't know, five liters things outside, right?。
Like, that's crazy.。
The amount of hard work it would take,。
it would take maybe an hour or more to fill,。
you know, fulfill the needs of these camels.。
And so we see the good of Rebecca from this verse,。
from these verses.。
Firstly, the good is she was attractive.。
Not many women in the Bible were commented as attractive.。
Only several, actually.。
We preached on one last week.。
Sarah was stated as attractive and beautiful.。
Esther, right?。
Lot's daughters were also known as beautiful.。
There was also a queen that was named as very beautiful.。
And so Rebecca was special.。
She's one of few that were named,。
was a beautiful, attractive lady.。
And it also says that she was a maiden.。
So she was pure, unmarried, young woman.。
And that she was also, we can see that she's servant-hearted.。
The servant asked for a drink and she was willing.。
And not only was she willing, she was also intuitive.。
She's like, oh, you have so many camels.。
Let me also help them to have a drink.。
And so as soon as the servant saw this woman。
and how she had answered her prayer from the Lord,。
he did what?。
We're gonna see in verse 22.。
He showered her with gifts, right?。
A gold ring, right?。
Bracelets.。
Please tell me whose daughter you are.。
And she tells him whose daughter she is.。
And the servant even asks, right?。
Is there a place for me to stay at your father's house?。
And she even invites him.。
And she says, yes, there are many rooms in my father's house.。
There's many, right?。
You can come and spend the night.。
And we can also see what happens later.。
Laban or Laban, his brother, and also his father said,。
in response to meeting the servant。
and the servant explaining his whole story,。
this thing that has come from the Lord,。
we cannot speak to you bad or good.。
Behold, Rebecca is before you.。
Take her and go.。
Let her be the wife of your master's son。
as the Lord has spoken.。
So it's been an incredible journey.。
The servant has traveled 1,450 kilometers by camel.。
Now the camel goes like this, right?。
It was not a comfortable ride.。
He arrives and he prays this prayer。
and God answers his prayer almost immediately.。
He asks to be going to his house, her house to stay.。
And she invites him.。
And their parents and the brother was like, yes,。
what you have said is from the Lord.。
Take her.。
This is an amazing romantic story。
that has been orchestrated by the Lord.。
Amazing.。
And the brother and mother has this one request.。
Let the young woman remain with us a while, 10 days,。
and then she may go.。
But the servant was like, no, do not delay me.。
Since the Lord has prospered my way,。
send me away that I may go to my master.。
They said, let us call the young woman and ask her.。
Then they called Rebecca and said to her,。
will you go with this man?。
And she said, I will go.。
It's incredible, right?。
He meets her.。
He stays over and then asks,。
can I, this is what has happened.。
I prayed this prayer.。
God has answered it.。
I made this oath to my master.。
And now you are, I believe you are the one。
that God has proposed to marry my master,。
my master's son.。
And the family agrees.。
What do they worship?。
They worship the stars.。
They worship the astrologers and astronomers.。
They were astrologers and astronomers, right?。
Like, and yet they believed what this servant said.。
And they were willing to give their only daughter.。
Who would give their daughter away。
after meeting this servant for one night?。
And they were like, oh, let this daughter stay with us.。
You know, Gordon, would you let one of your daughters?。
Oh yeah.。
(audience laughing)。
Which one, I'm joking.。
(laughing)。
It's amazing.。
The faith of the family.。
And then Rebecca as well.。
So we see the good.。
There was no bad things.。
We saw the good, there was no bad.。
And we saw the godly.。
Rebecca believed this servant.。
Rebecca stood in faith.。
She's never been to Israel or Hebron before.。
She's probably never been really outside of her area.。
The amount of faith it would take to just go.。
There's no, you know, what do you call it?。
When you look for people to date?。
I don't know.。
(laughing)。
Those apps, Pastor John, I'm joking.。
(laughing)。
Those apps, right?。
You could see all their profile.。
Isaac is this, Isaac is this.。
Oh, he looks good in this pose, this pose.。
There was none of that.。
She went by faith.。
And she was willing to follow.。
And I think as much as we see that she had faith,。
it was as much as God working in and through her life.。
In and through her life.。
And so she goes back with him.。
Immediately, 1,450 kilometers.。
That's quite a drive for us.。
Nevermind going on camels.。
And Isaac was meditating.。
And when he lifted his eyes up and saw her coming,。
Rebecca also lifted up her eyes.。
They had this special glow, you know?。
And Rebecca was to the servant,。
"Who is this man walking in the field, meeting us?"。
And the servant said, "It is my master."。
So she took a veil and covered herself,。
just as the traditions of that time,。
and of marriage.。
And the servant told Isaac all the things that had happened.。
Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah, his mother,。
and took Rebecca, and she became his wife.。
And he loved her.。
So Isaac was comforted after his mother's death.。
This is an amazing romantic story。
that had been orchestrated by God himself.。
Isaac, alone here,。
Abraham saying, "Go, find a wife for him。
"from my father's family, not these Canaanites here。
"that I live around."。
And she follows in faith.。
And he sees her, marries her, and loves her.。
It's an amazing story.。
It's an amazing story of God working。
in the life of Rebecca and Isaac, both sides.。
And we also see that this sort of foreshadows the gospel.。
You have Abraham, the father.。
You have Isaac, the son, the only son.。
The servant, it doesn't name here who exactly the servant is,。
but from Genesis 15 earlier,。
we know that the head servant of Abraham was Elanizer,。
and his name means God, my help.。
And then we see Rebecca as the bride.。
Isn't that sort of like the gospel?。
God sends his only son, right?。
And he sends his Holy Spirit to help,。
the helper, the comforter,。
and the bride, the bride of Christ, which is the church.。
It foreshadows the beauty of the gospel.。
And we see similarities between Isaac and Jesus, right?。
Isaac was promised, right?。
How old was Abraham?。
He was around 100 years old.。
Sarah was 90.。
But God said, "You will have a child."。
Isaac was promised.。
Jesus was promised.。
He was prophesied, over 300 prophecies about him.。
Jesus appeared at the appointed time.。
Isaac came after a long time of waiting。
from Abraham and Sarah.。
They were both miracle childs, right?。
Jesus was born of a virgin.。
Abraham and Sarah had Isaac at a very old age.。
It was a miracle.。
They were both have special names from the Lord.。
Both were offered as a sacrifice, right?。
Abraham went up to the mountain。
and was about to offer his son。
because the Lord had commanded.。
And that foreshadows what Jesus did.。
Thousands of years later,。
Jesus dying on the cross.。
And Jesus prepares a place for us in heaven.。
And Isaac prepared a place for his bride here.。
There's also similarities between Rebecca and the church, right?。
Rebecca was chosen by God.。
The church, we are the chosen, right?。
We're chosen to do his ministry.。
Be the hands and feet of God.。
We are part, the church is a part of God's eternal purpose.。
He has a plan for us。
to use us for his eternal purposes。
to accomplish the work of the gospel.。
Rebecca was part of the plan.。
The plan to accomplish the promises of God.。
Both were destined to share in glory with the son.。
Rebecca learned of Isaac through his servant, Elanizar.。
The church learns of Jesus through the Holy Spirit.。
Rebecca had to surrender everything。
so that she could serve and be married in joy。
to fulfill the promises of God.。
And the church, we also have to surrender our past,。
deny ourself, take up the cross and follow him.。
Both Rebecca and the church are loved and cared for.。
What an amazing story。
that foreshadows the beauty of the gospel.。
An amazing story.。
We're gonna continue with the second part of the story.。
Now, things always get interesting。
when kids are involved, right?。
John and Sandra was life so much more interesting。
when kids, yeah?。
And so we see here in the next part,。
verse 19, Abraham fathered Isaac。
and Isaac was 40 years old when he took Rebecca.。
And Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife。
because she was barren and the Lord granted his prayer.。
And Rebecca, his wife conceived.。
Verse 22, the children struggled together within her。
and she said, "If it is thus, why is this happening to me?"。
So she went to inquire of the Lord。
and the Lord said to her, "Two nations are in your womb.。
"And two peoples within you shall be divided.。
"The one shall be stronger than the other。
"and the older shall serve the younger."。
And so here are the good things we see about Rebecca in this.。
Well, it says Isaac prayed for his wife。
'cause they couldn't conceive, right?。
And we'll learn it was quite a length of time。
that Rebecca could not conceive.。
And so Isaac prayed for his wife.。
We see this pattern of prayer, meditation.。
When Isaac was waiting for his wife, Rebecca, to come,。
he was also meditating and now he prays for his wife.。
That's a great thing.。
And God provided twins.。
The first twins in the Bible, who's a twin here?。
We know of one, one very special lady, Agnes.。
(laughs)。
Agnes has a twin, right?。
And so twins, the first twins in the Bible, it's amazing.。
It's also good that Rebecca inquired of the Lord.。
There was a struggle within her.。
And God answered her prayer with a prophecy.。
It's amazing, this prophecy.。
How would you feel if you received this prophecy。
that there's two nations in your womb, right?。
How would you feel that these two people will be divided?。
Oh, two nations, oh, that's pretty cool.。
But it's gonna be divided?。
These two kids?。
One shall serve the other?。
The older shall serve the younger?。
How does that work?。
How would you feel if you were Rebecca?。
It would be a pretty confusing prophecy, right?。
You'd be like, what's going on, God?。
What's going on?。
And so we see what happens at birth.。
There are twins in the womb.。
The first came out red, all his body like a hairy coat.。
And they named him Esau because of that.。
And then the brother came out holding what?。
Holding Esau's heel.。
And so they named him Jacob.。
And Isaac was 60 years old when she bore them.。
How old was Isaac when he got married?。
40.。
They waited 20 years for kids.。
20 years.。
And so we see the good.。
But we also see the bad.。
When the boys grew up, Esau was a skillful hunter,。
man of the field, and Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents.。
And so because of that, Isaac loved Esau。
because he ate of his game.。
But Rebecca loved Jacob.。
And so the bad thing was favoritism.。
And whenever there's favoritism in the family,。
it complicates things.。
There's jealousy is involved.。
And jealousy can lead to anger and hatred and betrayal。
and all these sort of things.。
And so we see, I'm just gonna summarize。
one of the classic stories, right?。
Jacob and Esau.。
Who's the older?。
Esau.。
And so Esau, according to the customs back then,。
he had the birthright, all right?。
And so he was very hungry one time, all right?。
Imagine you went for a 10K run or a marathon, right?。
And you come back and you're just famished.。
You're like, "Oh, I'm starving."。
And Jacob has this delicious stew just right there.。
And Esau's like, "Give me some of that stew, man,。
"or I'm gonna die."。
And Jacob, you know, his name is clutching the heel。
or sort of a trickster.。
So he wants something in return.。
And what he wants is the birthright.。
And the birthright represented several things.。
The first is a double portion of the inheritance.。
Okay, a double portion.。
So it means you get two thirds, all right?。
And your brother gets one third.。
That's quite significant, right?。
Especially 'cause Abraham had a lot, right?。
And then it also represented。
that you would become the spiritual leader。
after the father died.。
So those were the two things that we saw.。
Later, Abraham and, sorry, Isaac and Sarah,。
they live in this region, right?。
And they meet Abimelech.。
Sorry, how do you say his name?。
- Abimelech. - Abimelech, right?。
Abimelech, who was a king of the Philistines.。
And Abimelech says, "Oh, you can live here."。
Right?。
"But who is this lady?。
"Who's this nice lady beside you?。
"Very attractive."。
And just like Abraham, right?。
Abraham makes the same mistake as,。
or Isaac makes the same mistake as Abraham.。
And he says, "Well, this is my sister."。
And later, the king finds out.。
And he's like, "Why are you lying?"。
You know, something could have happened to her.。
"Why are you lying?"。
So imagine Rebecca having to pretend。
to be the sister of Isaac for several years.。
So maybe she's a good actor as well, right?。
She's a good actor.。
And finally, we're gonna look at the story.。
The final story is this.。
As Abraham, or as Isaac approaches near his death.。
So Isaac was old and his eyes were dim.。
He couldn't really see.。
And so he felt like it was time.。
It was time.。
And he called Esau, "My son, you know,。
"behold, I'm gonna bless you.。
"First, what you're gonna do,。
"you're gonna go out, take some game,。
"you know, get some game,。
"and then prepare it for me.。
"And then I will be able to bless you before I die."。
All right, this is like the final deathbed。
that actually, you know, Isaac lives for,。
you know, I think 20 more years or something like that.。
But he felt like it was time。
to pass on this blessing, this birthright.。
And so what happens is Rebecca overhears.。
Let's read together, verse five, one, two, three.。
"Now Rebecca was listening。
"when Isaac spoke of his son Esau.。
"So when Esau went to the field。
"to hunt for game and bring it,。
"Rebecca said to her son Jacob,。
"'I heard your father speak to Esau.。
"'Go to the flock and bring me two good young goats。
"'so that I may prepare from them。
"'delicious food for your father,。
"'such as he loves,。
"'and you shall bring it to your father to eat。
"'so that he may bless you before he dies.'"。
Let's continue reading, verse 11.。
"So Jacob said to Rebecca, his mother,。
"'Behold, my brother Esau is a very hairy man。
"'and I am a smooth one.。
"'Perhaps my father will feel me,。
"'and mocking me,。
"'and bring curses upon myself and not a blessing.'。
"His mother said to him,。
"'Let your curse be on me, my son.。
"'Only obey my voice and go, bring them to me.'。
"So we saw the good.。
"We saw the bad, favoritism.。
"And now we see the ugly."。
So Rebecca receives this prophecy。
that the old will serve the younger,。
the nation will be divided,。
the stronger will serve the weaker.。
And yet she is trying to have manipulative scheming。
to get her own way, right?。
She overhears, she overhears.。
Mothers hear everything in the home, right?。
They hear everything.。
They have really good intuition.。
And so what she does,。
she convinces Jacob to deceive Isaac.。
And Isaac is hesitant, right?。
Like, I don't wanna deceive my father.。
My father is very hairy, I'm smooth.。
Like, there's gonna be curses upon me, right?。
So what does Rebecca do?。
She goes so far as to say,。
let the curses fall upon her.。
She's willing to be the sacrifice。
for what would happen.。
And so obviously Jacob goes along with this, right?。
Oh, okay, that's fine.。
You'll take all the curses.。
There's nothing for me really to lose.。
The problem with this。
is that the whole family did not trust each other.。
Did Isaac know of the prophecy?。
It doesn't really say.。
We don't know.。
But he might've overheard the prophecy, right?。
So some commentaries say this,。
that he knew of the prophecy。
and also tried to get his own way。
because he loved Esau.。
And Esau did not trust the family.。
He actually, he sold his birthright to Jacob.。
But yet what's happening here?。
He's trying to get the blessing from Isaac.。
So he, well, he's deceiving Jacob as well。
because he supposedly sold his birthright.。
Jacob should be the one receiving the blessing.。
And then obviously Jacob deceives his father。
and then steals the blessing from his brother.。
And the mother is the master schemer of all of it.。
What a wonderful family.。
They lie, they deceive, they manipulate,。
they scheme against each other.。
It's ugly.。
It's very ugly.。
And then in the end,。
later Esau plans to kill Jacob。
because he learns that Jacob has stolen the blessing.。
And so Rebecca sends Jacob away。
to hide at his brother's house in Haran.。
And so in a sense,。
one, he's lost sort of both children.。
One he's had to sent away because of hiding。
and the other,。
Esau might be angry with her。
because she's the one that's sort of behind all this.。
And so what are the lessons that we need to learn here。
from today's message of Rebecca?。
The first lesson is this,。
that God keeps his promises.。
Abraham's promise,。
God's promise to Abraham was this,。
that his descendants would be as numerous as the stars.。
And Isaac was not married.。
And so God fulfilled it。
through the promise of Rebecca.。
And so we also see, the second lesson is this,。
that God works when we don't see it.。
God was working in the life of Rebecca.。
God was working in the life of Isaac。
and they both met miraculously.。
The next thing we need to learn is。
that we need to wait and trust in God's promises.。
Rebecca knew that the nations would be divided within her,。
but she didn't wait.。
She didn't trust in the Lord.。
She thought she could do it herself.。
And so she used scheming and deceit。
to accomplish what she thought she wanted。
'cause she favored Jacob.。
And lastly, we need to learn。
that the blessings come from God.。
Each family member tried to get the blessing。
or give the blessing through their own strength,。
through their own power.。
Isaac tried to steal back the blessing。
using his own strength.。
Jacob tried to deceive to get the blessing.。
But in the end, we must know。
that the blessing comes from the Lord.。
And so today, do we trust in God's promises?。
Are you trusting in God's promises today?。
The promise of eternal life,。
the promise of the Holy Spirit helping us,。
the promise that one day He will return,。
that He has a plan for each one of us。
'cause we are the children of God.。
Do you trust in His promises and His plan?。
And do you trust in God's timing?。
God has the best timing.。
God has the best timing for Isaac and Rebecca to get married.。
God had the best timing for them to have children.。
God has His best timing.。
And lastly, do we believe that the blessings come from God?。
Many times we try to get the blessings。
or gain blessings for ourselves through our own strength.。
But we must recognize that ultimately,。
all good things come from the Lord.。
Must wait upon His blessings.。
As you know, we've been teaching these students English。
in our English Mentorship Program at Chan Baksa,。
this school in the South side, South Island side.。
And it's been a year of personal messaging,。
telling them, inviting them to come.。
It's been having lunches with them, treating them.。
It's been playing basketball with them, teaching them English.。
And finally, we had sort of an evangelistic meeting yesterday。
and 191 people showed up yesterday.。
And some of them brought their parents.。
And we've been teaching them Bible stories。
in our English Mentorship Program.。
We first taught them about the parable of the talents.。
And then we talked about Jonah.。
And now we've been talking about David.。
And then yesterday,。
it was the first time we really introduced the gospel to them.。
And when the speaker invited people。
to ask Jesus into their life,。
some of them were like, "Ah, maybe I'll do it.。
"Maybe I'll do it."。
And then eventually, we can see。
around 40 of these students rose their hand。
and asked Jesus, prayed the prayer,。
(congregation applauding)。
and asked Jesus into their life.。
It's an amazing story.。
It didn't all happen in one night.。
It was hard work.。
It was trusting in the Lord that He is working.。
Sometimes it was frustrating.。
Sometimes it was tiring.。
But we trusted in the Lord.。
We trusted that the blessing comes from the Lord.。
And so,。
do we trust that the blessing comes from the Lord today?。
Let's just take a time to bow down our heads.。
Heavenly Father,。
forgive us。
for trusting in our own works.。
Forgive us for trusting that we could make things right,。
that our plan is best.。
Help us, Lord, to surrender to You,。
to acknowledge that You have what is best for us,。
to trust in Your timing,。
and to believe that the blessings come ultimately from You.。
In Jesus Christ's name, we pray.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
