It's such a distinct joy to be with you this morning.。
I want to begin with a simple question.。
What's your prized possession?。
What do you consider a cherished possession in your life?。
For me, one of my prized possessions。
comes through a birthday greeting。
of my daughter, Belisha.。
And she's sitting in front telling me, don't call me。
to stand, don't call me to stand.。
I want to read to you the birthday greeting,。
and I'll tell you why.。
She said, happy birthday to the number one dad in the world.。
Thank you for being there when I needed you, even when I didn't.。
Thank you for teaching me manners.。
Thank you for teaching me to be humble。
and to give honor when honor is due by modeling it yourself.。
Thank you for not giving up on me,。
even during my rebellious years.。
When I came home late, lied to you, made you wait,。
and was always late.。
Thank you for giving me so many second chances.。
Thank you for training me in public speaking.。
Thank you for helping me to constantly achieve an A grade。
in English and literature.。
Thank you for giving me such a beautiful name, Belisha,。
which means dedicated to God.。
Thank you for reminding me I'm loved, even when you are angry,。
you pick me up when I fall.。
Thank you for the chocolate milks, chocolate milkshake,。
and chocolate cakes.。
Thank you for countless opportunities.。
Thank you for my education.。
Thank you for bringing me to your workplace,。
to your meetings, and even on overseas trips with you.。
Thank you for making me the most well-traveled。
among my friends and even teachers by the age of seven.。
Thank you for always offering to drive me to school and work。
in time, for picking me up even in the middle of the night.。
Thank you for always prioritizing Amanda and me。
over work, despite your busy schedule.。
Thank you for reminding me adopted means loved.。
Thank you so much.。
Sorry, there's so much to thank you for, so much honored you,。
so many memories to cherish.。
Even a lifetime of gratitude wouldn't be enough.。
Most of all, I want to thank you for adopting me,。
because if you hadn't, none of this would have been possible,。
not even my life.。
So thank you, Daddy.。
I love you.。
Now, when Belisha said not even my life,。
I shared in a testimony in the Hong Kong Bible Conference,。
she was a very sickly child.。
We adopted her, brought her home, prayed for her.。
And I'm very thankful the Lord healed her.。
But I tell you why I read to you this birthday message,。
because this is what I'm most grateful for.。
When I read this, the primary thought that came to my heart。
is, "Oh, I'm so grateful I'm a great father."。
That wasn't in my heart, because I am a work in progress.。
I'm also thankful for a wonderful daughter,。
but that wasn't the first thing in my heart.。
I tell you what is the first thing in my heart.。
I am very grateful that my daughter is grateful.。
I'm grateful for her gratitude.。
Because if she's grateful, then she。
wouldn't walk with a sense of a spirit of entitlement。
or presumptuousness.。
This is what God looks to us as His children,。
a spirit of gratitude, a spirit of thanksgiving.。
That's why thanksgiving is so important in our worship.。
Thanksgiving is so important in our discipleship.。
And thanksgiving is so important in our leadership,。
so that we don't have a spirit of entitlement.。
Out of us is a deep sense of gratitude.。
Now, it's easy to talk about gratitude。
when things are going well.。
It is very hard to talk about gratitude。
when we are in the wilderness.。
So what I want to do this morning。
is to give us a perspective of the wilderness,。
so that we are able to understand with clarity。
what it means to walk with God, even in the wilderness,。
and have a sense of worship and gratitude。
that flows out of our life.。
A key passage in the Scripture for us is in Isaiah 40.。
And Isaiah 40 is a prophetic voice in the wilderness.。
Before we explore it this morning,。
would you bow with me in a word of prayer。
and ask for the Lord's blessing?。
Eternal God and Heavenly Father, once again,。
open our eyes to behold your truth,。
so that we might behold you.。
Help us to engage you and your truth。
with a sense of gratitude and joy。
for the power, the grace, and the glory。
of your wonderful favour and love towards us.。
Help us, therefore, Lord, to understand。
that the wilderness is not a place that is terrifying.。
It's actually a place that is therapeutic.。
It heals us.。
It directs us.。
It teaches us.。
For all this, we give you thanks in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
You see, in life, we've got to understand。
things are not what they seem.。
And one of the key things that's not what it seems。
is in the wilderness.。
In one of my visits in Israel,。
there was a tour bus that took us around,。
and it passes through a wilderness.。
And Hannah, our tour guide, said something brilliant.。
She said, "Ah, the wilderness.。
What a special place,。
because in the emptiness of the wilderness,。
God speaks.。
In the wilderness of our life, God speaks."。
And so I want to connect us with reality,。
a reality of God breaking into our lives。
in every aspect, including the wilderness.。
Now, I use the word wilderness as a metaphor of life,。
of the times of barrenness, the times of disconnectedness.。
It can come through a miscarriage.。
It can come through a retrenchment of our jobs.。
It can come with a relational tension,。
or a marital problem, or parenting, or ministry.。
Anything that gives us a sense of this connectedness。
is the wilderness we are walking through.。
Turn with me in Isaiah 40,。
and we'll begin with verse 3 to verse 5.。
Isaiah 40, verse 3 to verse 5 says,。
"In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord.。
Make straight in the desert a highway for our God.。
Every valley will be lifted up,。
and every mountain and hill be made low.。
The uneven ground shall become level,。
and the rough places a plain.。
And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed,。
and all flesh shall see it together,。
for the mouth of the Lord has spoken."。
You see, in Biblical history,。
the wilderness was a journey from the bondage of Egypt。
into the Promised Land.。
It was through the wilderness.。
40 years in the wilderness.。
How do we get that 40 years in the wilderness?。
How did it come about?。
Because when they came out of Egypt into the Promised Land,。
Moses sent 12 spies to spy the Promised Land。
and bring back a report.。
So 40 days, they went to spy the land,。
and after 40 days, they came back.。
Two spies gave a faith report, Joshua and Caleb,。
but the other 10 spies were report of doubt and unbelief.。
And these reports discouraged the people.。
They believed the 10 spies.。
They too were in doubt and unbelief,。
and God judged them.。
God says for every day, you spy the land。
and yet bring back the report,。
even though it's a good land, a Promised Land.。
For every day, you have one year in the wilderness.。
40 days, therefore 40 years.。
The question we ask then is, why the wilderness?。
Why not?。
You are so unbelieving, send them back to Egypt.。
Why the wilderness?。
There are two basic reasons.。
One is God's promise.。
Because of His promise to Abraham,。
that God has given the land,。
if every time the children of God are in disbelief,。
He sends them back to Egypt, sends them back to Egypt,。
they will never enter the Promised Land.。
The wilderness was given by God,。
actually as His grace,。
as His grace to tutor them and to build up their faith.。
So that's the second reason.。
It's the purpose of God to develop a people of faith.。
We must understand that the wilderness is not just a place,。
not merely a place of punishment,。
rather it's a place of development.。
It is not a destination.。
It is but a transit point.。
In other words, this is important to learn.。
Whatever wilderness you and I go through,。
God does not intend for us to live in the wilderness.。
He intends for us to learn from the wilderness.。
It's an important principle.。
We don't live in the wilderness。
because it's not our destination.。
It's a place by which we learn。
because it's our tuition centre.。
So when you're going through a very difficult time,。
whatever the condition is in your life,。
take it as God's tuition centre。
and you are paying the tuition fee。
in order to grow, in order to learn.。
Now, there are good news。
and also bad news in the wilderness.。
Let me give you the bad news first.。
The bad news in the wilderness,。
number one, we can lose our bearing in the wilderness.。
You see, the wilderness in Palestine。
is a place of emptiness, barrenness, there's nothing.。
And in the desert, it is possible for people to be so lost。
that they wander around in circles and lose their bearing.。
I'm a Singaporean in urban Singapore.。
It's a small city.。
It's not easy to get lost in Singapore.。
The signs are everywhere.。
You can have GPS, you can have so many other aids。
to help, ways to tell me where to go.。
But once, I was lost in the wilderness in Africa.。
No GPS because there's completely no signal.。
Anne and I were with another elderly missionary couple,。
four in a car.。
I was driving and we were looking for Johannesburg.。
We were down south.。
And what happened was that we couldn't find Johannesburg.。
I went to ask for direction.。
I was given a map.。
I studied the map.。
I think I know which road to take.。
And we miscalculated again.。
I'm Singaporean.。
We don't have four seasons.。
Singapore has only one season and one weather.。
Hot, still hot, very hot, and still very hot.。
We don't have four seasons.。
And so I didn't know in the winter,。
the sun sets very quickly.。
And so there in Africa, I thought I have,。
I was traveling at mid-afternoon.。
I thought we have enough sunlight to drive on.。
Suddenly I was caught with the sunset and darkness engulfed us.。
When I say darkness engulfed us, it's complete darkness.。
No street lamp, no street light, no street sign.。
In other words, you imagine I was driving in the car,。
four of us.。
I look in front in the headlamp.。
I see nothing because the two beams shines into nothing.。
It's the wilderness.。
Behind, I look behind, it is pitch darkness, nothing.。
So it's just one road.。
I don't know where it's leading to.。
I travel miles and miles of nothing.。
So I wasn't sure whether I'm headed the right direction.。
Don't know where to go, no street light.。
Finally, I decided to stop。
because I was hoping if I drive on for a while,。
maybe I can find some sign.。
There was nothing.。
So I stopped the car by the side of the road.。
I learned afterwards, I don't need to stop by the side of the road.。
There's no car.。
There was nothing in the wilderness.。
And I look up to look for the Northern Star。
because I'm traveling up north.。
If I can find the North Star, the Southern Cross, the constellation,。
I'll be able to get the northern direction。
and get a sense of where Johannesburg roughly is.。
I located the constellation of the Southern Cross,。
get my bearing where North is,。
headed towards that direction。
and eventually found Johannesburg.。
I learned a lesson that day,。
when you are lost, look up.。
Because God will always guide us when we look up.。
The bad news in the wilderness is when there are no signs,。
when we don't know what is happening,。
we lose our bearing and as a result, second bad news,。
we lose our confidence.。
In other words, we become so disoriented,。
we don't know how to proceed in the wilderness.。
There is a key that I want to pass to you that have helped me.。
And that is, when you don't know what to do,。
you do what you know, you will know what to do.。
Let me repeat that.。
When you don't know what to do, you go back to basics.。
You do what you know and then you'll know what to do.。
I was talking to a surgeon, actually a gynaecologist.。
He's one of the best trained overseas。
and he's a Malaysian doctor, Malaysian surgeon.。
He told me that there are times when he was doing surgery。
and suddenly he sees things the textbook has never spoken of.。
Never seen, never read before, never studied in medical school.。
And in those times when it is a great uncertainty before him。
and he's right there in the surgery, what do you do?。
He says he remembered the teaching of his professor.。
And that is, when you see something you've never seen before。
and you don't know what to do, always go back to the basics.。
Always go back to the fundamentals。
because your top priority is to save life.。
Go back to the fundamentals, it will save life.。
When you don't know what to do, stick to the fundamentals.。
Do what you know in the fundamentals。
and it will guide you in what you do.。
You don't have to lose a sense of confidence and panic.。
Get back to the fundamentals.。
Third bad news, when we lose our bearing and our confidence,。
we tend to wander in the wilderness.。
And that is why we meander around。
because we are not sure where to go.。
We are not sure how to proceed.。
And that's why it's often called the wilderness wandering.。
It is seen when travellers get lost in the desert.。
When they trace back their steps,。
you could see their steps walking.。
They're actually walking around in circle.。
They don't think they're walking around in circle.。
They think they're walking straight,。
but they become so disoriented.。
If you take a view from the top,。
you can see them walking around in a big circle.。
They are wandering in the wilderness。
because they get disoriented and lost.。
Now, here's the fourth bad news.。
Wilderness wandering wearies us.。
We get tired.。
We can't make sense of what's going on.。
We get confounded and we lose heart.。
We get discouraged.。
Very often in the wilderness of our life,。
we go like, "Lord, how long will all this last?。
Why am I going through this again and again and again?"。
Cultivate patience because they are, as I said,。
tuition fees to be paid in the wilderness.。
The fifth bad news is that the wilderness is a battleground,。
but it's a different kind of battleground.。
It's not a battleground with armies and chariots outside.。
It's a battleground within, without discouragement,。
fears, anxieties. It's an inner battle.。
Ah, but there's good news in the wilderness.。
Let me tell you some of this good news.。
One, we can experience God's presence in the wilderness.。
The Bible speaks of times of refreshing in the presence of God.。
So if whatever wilderness we are facing,。
whatever discouraging circumstances,。
enter the sanctuary into the presence of God.。
Because in the sanctuary, we find times of refreshing.。
The second good news, we can receive God's provision in the wilderness.。
God is present and God will provide.。
That's what the children of Israel learn.。
That even in the wilderness journey, because of their unbelief,。
God has to give them the extra tuition God provided for them.。
Nehemiah 9 is a historical recital of the faithfulness of God。
from the Exodus into the years of the wilderness,。
recorded in the book of Numbers.。
And there in the historical recital of God's faithfulness,。
there are many times in that chapter, Nehemiah 9,。
where it says God provided, God supplied, God gave, God gave, God gave.。
God provides in the wilderness.。
That is why we have to anchor into His presence and have the confidence。
God will never lead you where His grace cannot keep you.。
God will never lead you where His grace cannot keep you.。
Because His grace will always be sufficient for us.。
His strength always make perfect in our weaknesses.。
Morning by morning, this has been a refrain in my prayer.。
And that is the faithfulness of God and His grace.。
His grace is sufficient for me.。
His grace is sufficient for you.。
His strength is make perfect in our weaknesses.。
So therefore, we can experience God's power in the wilderness.。
Not just His presence or His provision, but His power.。
And God shows His power to those who will trust Him and rely on Him.。
His strength makes strong in our weaknesses.。
So the key thing I learned in my faith journey is lean in on God,。
depend upon God, rest upon God.。
Our posture makes a difference.。
In one of the art galleries in London,。
there is an entire floor that is dedicated to Italian Renaissance art.。
And one day there's an art professor by the name of Dr Robert Cumming,。
professor of the History of Art in Boston University.。
He came to admire the art pieces of these Italian masters.。
And he came before a painting by Lippi, the 15th century artist.。
And the painting is called Virgin and Child.。
He stood there to admire the painting.。
But he said to himself,。
"There's something not quite right about this painting."。
But he couldn't put his finger upon what exactly is not quite right about painting.。
He admired the brush strokes, he admired the colour,。
he admired the presentation of the art piece,。
but he can't tell there's just something, some proportion not quite right.。
He can't figure out what it was.。
And then finally the thought struck him.。
What if this art piece wasn't meant to be commissioned for an art gallery?。
What if this piece was meant for a prayer room, a prayer chamber?。
If it's a prayer chamber,。
they don't stand to admire the art piece like an art gallery.。
They kneel.。
So Professor Cummings did something he has never done in a gallery.。
He knelt in front of the painting.。
And when he knelt in front of the painting,。
he looked up.。
Oh, everything was in the right proportion.。
Mary was holding the child close and everything was,。
the hills in the background was beautiful.。
Everything was in the right proportion.。
You see, here's the principle.。
Our posture determines our perspective.。
And when we come to a place where we rely on God,。
we lean in on God,。
we will find His grace in the wilderness.。
So it says for us in verse 3,。
"A voice cries in the wilderness, 'Prepare the way for the Lord.'"。
How do you prepare the way for the Lord?。
You prepare the way for the Lord by the posture you take in prayer,。
in dependence, in quiet submission to God.。
Because when we do that, here's the fourth good news.。
We can discover God's purpose in the wilderness.。
That God allows seasons of wilderness in our life。
to teach us things that we otherwise cannot learn。
apart from that wilderness.。
Ah, but here comes the attack of the lie of the evil one.。
The lie of Satan is he tells us,。
"There is no way out of the wilderness.。
You are trapped in the wilderness.。
It is hopeless."。
And we panic.。
We think, "Oh, our marriage is hopeless.。
Or our parenting is hopeless.。
Or our ministry is hopeless.。
Or the church is hopeless.。
Or our job is hopeless.。
Our boss is hopeless.。
Everything around is hopeless."。
And then we come, "I am hopeless."。
Because everything is hopeless.。
Don't lose hope.。
Never call hopeless what God has not called hopeless.。
A definition of bondage is when we call hopeless。
what God has not called hopeless.。
And therefore, in that hopelessness,。
we are in bondage.。
God is the bondage breaker.。
With God, there is always hope.。
Prepare the way in the wilderness。
is when we come to a place of surrender。
and we lean in on the God of hope.。
Otherwise, there is no way out of our wilderness.。
It crushes us into despair and discouragement.。
And Satan wins because he intimidates us.。
"There is no way you're going to get out of your wilderness.。
It is hopeless."。
But God tells us,。
"You will find grace in the wilderness."。
He repeated that prophetic word in Jeremiah 31 verse 2.。
That in the wilderness, you will find grace in it.。
Because God doesn't merely lead us to the wilderness.。
He leads us through the wilderness.。
He invites us to a missional intimacy with Him.。
So what's our response?。
Let me offer to you some basic fundamentals。
that we must hold on to as we respond to the Lord.。
Number one is to realise everyone。
encounters a wilderness season in our life.。
When I was younger, I thought, "Oh, if you're a godly Christian,。
you will not have a wilderness experience."。
Until I read the Scripture, it says,。
"The Holy Spirit led Jesus into the wilderness to be tested."。
I learned that God uses the wilderness for our good.。
The second lesson is that the greatest snare in the wilderness。
is murmuring and complaining.。
And the reason for murmuring and complaining is unbelief.。
What we need to do is to learn to keep a gratitude journal.。
That is why I begin by saying to us,。
gratitude is so important because God is the one。
who makes straight in the desert a highway for Himself。
when we walk with faith and gratitude.。
He says, "Every valley shall be lifted up。
and every mountain and hill shall be made low."。
In other words, God Himself, He will make the path for you.。
So keep a gratitude journal.。
Record God's goodness in your life.。
The third response is to realise we have a choice in the wilderness.。
It is not a time to be crippled by our doubts or anxieties.。
It's a time to anchor in the Word of God and to move on in faith.。
It is to declare the goodness of God.。
Look at verse 6 now.。
It says, "A voice cried and said,。
'What shall I cry?'。
That is a prophetic declaration of God's Word.。
That is a prophetic voice in the Scripture we must heed.。
That's the fourth response we must learn, that God speaks.。
Through the prophets, He gives us hope.。
So now the prophet Isaiah asked, "What shall I cry?"。
And the statement is, "All flesh is grass。
and all the beauty is like the flower of the field.。
The grass withers, the flower fades.。
When the breath of the Lord blows upon it,。
surely the people are grass.。
The grass withers, the flower fades.。
But the Word of the Lord stands forever."。
Now, this is only the preface of what he's supposed to cry out.。
It is not what Isaiah was to cry out.。
It's the reason given.。
In other words, when the Spirit said, "Cry,"。
and Isaiah the prophet said, "What shall I cry?"。
The premise, the reason given is,。
everything else will fade away except the Word of God.。
Meaning, there is nothing worthy to cry out。
except the Word of God.。
So what is the Word of God that Isaiah was supposed to cry out?。
We find that now in the next verse, verse 9.。
"Go up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news.。
Lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem,。
herald of good news.。
Lift it up, fear not.。
Say to the cities of Judah, 'Behold your God.'"。
These are the three words the prophet was to cry out,。
even in the wilderness.。
"Behold your God."。
Whatever difficulty or crisis you are in,。
"Behold your God."。
Whatever challenges you face, "Behold your God."。
Whatever problems come your way, "Behold your God."。
Whatever darkness there is in your life, "Behold your God."。
That's the prophetic word.。
That's the key.。
"Behold your God."。
When we understand this key,。
gratitude flows out of our heart.。
Because we have a loving Father.。
Because we have a Father who cares for us.。
Jesus said, "If you being evil know how to give good gifts to your children,。
how much more does the heavenly Father give good gifts。
to those who are called His children?"。
We are the children of God.。
He wants to bless us with His favour and His grace.。
But He calls us to understand we are not to behold the world.。
We are not to behold its glamour and splendour and deceptions and illusions。
and get all confused by what is the trappings of success,。
or the symbols of success, or the tokens of success.。
God wants us to be truly successful when we behold our God.。
Oh, we need a radical definition of success in our life.。
Success is not when everything is up in the mountain and celebrative and high.。
Success is even when we are in the valley.。
Even when wilderness sets in.。
Even when we cry tears nobody knows, nobody sees but God.。
Even in those valleys, God is there with us.。
And when we lay hold of Him,。
that's true success.。
Because when we lay hold of Him,。
there will be a profound sense of gratitude when we behold Him.。
I think at the end of the day,。
there is always hope when we lay hold of God.。
But we must be willing to come out of our comfort zone,。
to follow the Lord's leading, to lean in on God.。
My time has caught up with me. I want to close with a true story.。
Many years ago, I was in Malaysia preaching with a group of Singaporean pastors.。
They rented a big auditorium and several churches gathered there.。
We took turns to preach that night. My friend was preaching.。
I was sitting in front listening to him and the Lord spoke to me,。
"Son, go behind."。
I went behind and I thought, "Wow, this is a great vantage point."。
I could see my friend preaching.。
I see the churches gathered. I could pray for them.。
And that's what I did. While I was praying,。
the Holy Spirit fell upon me and gave me a simple word that shocked me.。
"Son, dance."。
Edmund Chan don't do dance.。
I am an evangelical, son of a non-dancing evangelical.。
Even if I want to dance, I don't know how to dance.。
But I did tell the Lord before,。
"Lord, whatever you say to me, confirm it by your word."。
And the word of the Lord came.。
David danced before the Lord.。
"Son, it's alright to dance."。
I was thinking, "But David is a Jew. I'm a Chinese Singaporean.。
The Jews dance all the time.。
My African brothers and sisters dance all the time.。
I'm a conservative Chinese Singaporean pastor.。
I don't do dance."。
But I did not argue with the Lord.。
So what do I do?。
I twirl around and dance the worst dance in the history of the Christian church.。
As I obeyed the Lord and worshipped Him and danced around,。
imagining how David would dance as he celebrated the Lord,。
suddenly the word of the Lord came to me.。
There's a woman, she's dressed in yellow.。
Her husband has just slapped her. Her heart is broken.。
Go to her and say three things.。
"I, the Lord, I'm your husband. I love you. I take care of you."。
I opened my eyes at the shock of my life.。
For some reason that night, there were so many women dressed in yellow.。
Can you imagine going to the wrong one?。
Your husband has just left you.。
"No, I'm not married."。
Your future husband.。
"I can't say that."。
Or your husband has just left you.。
"No, my husband is here."。
And she turned to her husband.。
"Are you thinking of leaving me?。
I cannot be party to domestic violence."。
So which one?。
By the time the service was over,。
I walked in the center aisle, looking left and right.。
So many women dressed in yellow.。
"Lord, which one?"。
And the Lord spoke to me.。
"Son, I am not a God of confusion。
to show you that I've spoken to you.。
Your wife is already speaking to her."。
Whoa, faith rose in my heart.。
I walked to the front.。
I saw Anne speaking, the woman dressed in yellow.。
Anne was speaking.。
I stopped her and said, "Anne, can I speak to this lady?"。
I turned to her and said, "I want to tell you three things.。
Your husband has left you, but this is what the Lord says.。
Three things."。
He said, "I, the Lord, I'm your husband.。
I love you. I will take care of you."。
She began to cry.。
"It must be God.。
He takes a stranger who knows nothing about my deepest pain。
to tell me about the grace and the love of God."。
As she started to cry, Anne and I laid hands on her,。
prayed for her.。
I wish I have a video recorder。
to record the change in countenance.。
At first, there was sadness,。
and suddenly there was a glow,。
and there was a joy and a peace of the Lord that came.。
That night in the hotel room, Anne kept asking me,。
"How do you know? How do you know?"。
I said, "I dance."。
You know it's not the dancing.。
It is the willingness to lean in on God, to depend on God.。
I am not suggesting you do anything。
you think God is telling you to do.。
Remember what I said.。
I said, "Lord, whatever you tell me to do,。
you confirm through the Scriptures.。
And when you confirm through the Scriptures, I will obey."。
When the Lord helps us in our wilderness。
to lean in on Him, to depend upon Him,。
to embrace these three prophetic words in Isaiah,。
"Behold your God!"。
You know what comes up in my heart。
every time I behold God?。
Gratitude.。
And that gratitude changes everything,。
even in my wilderness.。
Would you bow with me in prayer?。
Heavenly Father, when You tell us,。
"Prepare your heart,。
prepare the way of the Lord in the wilderness,"。
You are calling us to prepare our heart。
to lean in upon You,。
whatever may befall,。
because You are there in our wilderness.。
Your presence, Your provision,。
Your power may manifest.。
So help us, dear God, in this journey,。
in this pilgrimage of discipleship,。
that even in the wilderness,。
when we behold our God,。
there is victory and an overcoming faith.。
We thank You in Jesus' wonderful name.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
