Good evening, everybody.。
Today is a special moment for me.。
This is my first time preaching at KFC, my own spiritual home.。
But this could be the last time and the only time if I'm doing a poor job tonight.。
So I would like to take one minute of your time just to share a few words from my heart。
first before my sermon.。
I really have to praise and thank God for his grace.。
Without his grace, I couldn't go through my study at the seminary for the past four years.。
And can I tell you more about it later?。
I also want to thank my family and then my brothers and sisters who are watching online。
and some of them are here from my school, from the marketplace, from my small group,。
everywhere in the church.。
Without your support, I couldn't go through this past four years as I walked through what。
I learned is my half time, that learning and discerning what God's will for me for my second。
half.。
So thank you.。
And then Pastor John was saying, I also want to thank my family, in particular, my wife,。
my two kids.。
I remember four years ago when I first told them, "What do you think about your father,。
your husband being the only breadwinner, taking a few years off to go to seminary to study?"。
I remember what they tell me, is that, "If God calls you to do it, go ahead."。
And today, Pastor John just said, "It's my wife's birthday and on her birthday, she comes。
here instead of going to party, she comes here to support me."。
So that's what my family is for me.。
Thank you and happy birthday, my love.。
All right, back to my sermon.。
Last week, Pastor John preached to us the first part of this sermon, "Faith in the Workplace."。
And he told us this division between secular and sacred.。
Next slide, please.。
He called for a new breed of disciple and asked us to break down walls, build bridges,。
and seek God's will in the workplace.。
In this tonight, in this second part of this sermon, I want to invite you into a space。
to reflect on this topic from a different perspective.。
Me, I'm representing a layperson perspective.。
So tonight, I invite you to come here to reflect on this topic from a layperson perspective.。
Specifically, how do you feel about responding to this call for a new breed of disciples?。
This is also a call for all of us to enter into God's will to join Him for His kingdom。
work in transforming our city.。
Most of us, we have a full-time job, and I also include those full-time mom and dad as。
well.。
We are already so tired from our work, meeting demands from our managers, dealing with company。
politics, trying to outperform to get the next raise or get the next promotion.。
When we come to church, I just want to take a break from my work.。
I want to gain some energy from worship, from singing, from the sermon.。
I don't want to connect anything back from work here to church.。
I'm already so tired.。
Besides, I don't think my work matters here in God's kingdom.。
I remember a few weeks ago when Pastor James talked to us about a community-based church,。
and he challenged us to know each other more from a different perspective, knowing our。
wives, knowing different things, remember?。
But when Lillian and I, we've been in this church for almost 16 years, I wonder if many。
people know what we do for a living.。
And look around you.。
You may know the name of the people sitting next to you, but do you know what they do。
for a living?。
It seems like we know what our pastors do.。
We know what Pastor John do, or Johnny and Michelle, what they do here.。
And we know each other.。
We may know, "Oh, this is worship team, Florence worship team, and we have ambassadors, we。
have sound person, we have deacons here."。
We all know people, they're serving roles, but that's all.。
And other than that, we carry little roles in God's kingdom.。
In a sense, we are like nobody in God's kingdom.。
As a nobody, coming back to this calling, how can we answer to this call for a new breed。
of disciples in God's kingdom?。
That call may sound so remote to you.。
That certainly sound remote to me.。
It seems like there are already so many obstacles for everyone, not just Christians in the marketplace.。
And that is the state I want all of us to enter into the passage Bonnie just read to。
us, the story of Zacchaeus.。
Zacchaeus is a unique character in the Bible stories.。
He was not only a tax collector, he was the chief tax collector.。
He was a wealthy person and he was a high ranking government officials.。
Normally, people with that profile, you would expect he will receive VIP sitting on the。
first row and then in a popular event.。
But you know from the story, that's not the case.。
Zacchaeus was despised by his people.。
He was an outcast to his people because of his profession.。
Back then, as a tax collector, people despised people in the tax collector because what they。
do, they collect heavy taxes for the Roman Emperor.。
And specifically for Zacchaeus, he was a Jew working for a foreign government.。
That put him a traitor to his people of Israel.。
And in verse 7, we knew that he was considered to be a sinner among the crowd.。
And then in verse 3, the scripture also described him as a short man.。
So from socially speaking and physically speaking, he was a nobody in the crowd.。
Let's take a pause here and reflect that back to ourselves.。
Do we see ourselves so far from Jesus when we try to live out our faith at work?。
For those of us working in the office, we may already be overwhelmed with all these。
challenges at work.。
And even for those of us homemakers, and I know that.。
I've been at home for the past four years, easily can take up the full days just doing。
house chores or meeting needs for our family.。
And we say, how do we possibly answer to this call to break down walls, build bridges, and。
seek God's will in the workplace?。
That's just impossible.。
And in the Bible passage, it's equally, it's also the same case for Zacchaeus.。
Zacchaeus being a nobody, short and also despised by people socially and physically.。
He has so many people in the crowd, he wants to see Jesus, the most popular guy, to come。
into his way.。
That's just impossible for Zacchaeus to meet Jesus personally.。
But then, when people ask, in a few chapters earlier, when people ask Jesus about salvation,。
Jesus replied, "What is impossible with man is possible with God."。
Let me first highlight a key word in the passage.。
Next slide, please.。
In this passage, in verse three, Luke used a word to describe Zacchaeus, the nobody.。
He said, in the NIV version, he said, he wanted to see who Jesus was.。
Actually, it's clearer in the ESV version.。
He said, Zacchaeus was seeking to see who Jesus was.。
The key word here in Greek is seek, sateo.。
With this, his nobody status, Zacchaeus faced so many obstacles in trying to reach Jesus,。
but he didn't give up.。
He climbed up a tree and tried to find a spot to see Jesus.。
And then, here the story comes to a sudden turn when Jesus showed up.。
When Jesus arrived to the spot where Zacchaeus climbed up a tree, he called Zacchaeus out。
of the whole crowd and said, "Wait a second here.。
Why would Jesus, out of everyone here, when he stopped at a place and called out to Zacchaeus。
by his name, why?"。
Can I have the next slide, please?。
It is Zacchaeus' heart to seek Jesus despite all the challenges he faced.。
In Luke 11, verse 9, Jesus said, "Ask and it will be given to you.。
Seek and you will find.。
Knock and the door will be opened to you."。
And that promise goes all the way back to the Old Testament.。
In the Old Testament, can I have the next slide, please?。
In Moses said to the people of Israel, "But if from there you seek the Lord your God,。
you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul."。
Because Zacchaeus sought Jesus with all his heart and all his soul, despite all the challenges。
he needed to face, he found Jesus.。
But then we need to ask, in this passage, who is seeking whom here?。
While Luke starts this passage by saying Zacchaeus was seeking to see Jesus, Luke ends this passage。
by saying – can I have the next slide, please?。
For the Son of Man comes to seek and save the lost.。
Zacchaeus found Jesus because Jesus is seeking the lost.。
It is the central theme of Jesus' ministry on earth.。
The lost are those who do not know God in person, but also include those of us who struggle。
to live up our faith in the workplace, feeling lost.。
If you are currently feeling lost in your life, or you feel powerless at work, remember。
this.。
Seek Jesus at wherever you are.。
In family, in the office, at school, you will be found.。
So now let's take a look at what does it mean to be found by Jesus.。
Let's take a closer look at Jesus' responses to Zacchaeus.。
Jesus is seeking us to restore our true identity by knowing us personally.。
Can I have the next slide, please?。
In verse 5, Jesus first responded to Zacchaeus and called him by his name.。
Just now we learned that Zacchaeus was a nobody.。
If you are nobody in God's kingdom, you may think nothing matters, so I don't need to。
do anything because I'm just a small potato.。
Or in the other extreme, we may try very hard to think that we are somebody.。
At work, we try to work very hard to prove that we are better than others.。
And even in church, we try to take key position to think that we matter here.。
We try different ways to gain recognition from other people.。
But I remember last December when Pastor John shared with us the true meaning of Christmas,。
that Jesus being somebody as God's only son came to the world as nobody so that humans,。
we are nobody, can be somebody as God's children in his kingdom.。
Instead of addressing Zacchaeus by his work title, say, "Chief Tax Collector," or his。
financial status, "Hey, Richie," Jesus called him by his name, Zacchaeus.。
Jesus saw Zacchaeus as a human being made in God's image, more than just his role or。
his wealth.。
Last week, you all know that President Xi Jinping was here in Hong Kong.。
Imagine if he stopped right in front of you and call your name in person.。
How would that make you feel?。
But what about Jesus, the God's only son, King of Kings, creator of the world, knows。
your name, Samuel, Wallace, Kelly, Ivan, Joseph, he knows your name.。
When we know that, when we hold that belief that Jesus holds our name, we have a firm。
foundation with our identity in Christ.。
And that foundation could be challenged by our changing roles in the world.。
Personally, I've experienced several changes in my life in the past few years.。
Let me tell you a bit more about myself now.。
In the marketplace, I used to lead a team of portfolio managers to manage $5 billion。
US dollar of money for institution.。
And then my whole team in Asia was made redundant and I was out of draft for a few months.。
And then I went back to work for a startup firm to launch an investment strategy from。
scratch.。
And now I'm a full-time student for the last four years.。
And even in church, when I first came to KFC in 2004, I didn't do anything because we。
just started having children.。
It's very difficult to serve.。
We're nobody.。
And then over time, we did babysitting, we teach Sunday school, we did youth mentors,。
and then group leaders and something else.。
And now I'm just an intern.。
So in...so Paul, Apostle Paul in Philippians 4, he said that he has found the secret of。
being content in any and every situation.。
I believe that secret lies with our identity in Christ.。
Through the ups and downs, I hold on to my relationship with Jesus that he calls me personally。
to himself.。
And in that moment, my heart was filled with love from God.。
And I'm also experiencing the secret of being content in every and any situation because。
Jesus knows my name and Jesus knows your name.。
He restored our identity as people made in God's image.。
We are all somebody in God's kingdom.。
But Jesus came here not just to restore our identity.。
He also empowered us by entering into our life.。
After Jesus called Zacchaeus by name, he invited himself to stay at Zacchaeus' house.。
By staying in his house, Jesus wants to be in people's life, at home, in the office,。
at school, in church, wherever we go.。
He doesn't just stay here in church or anywhere and expecting people to come here to worship。
him.。
Instead, he wants to go out and be with you and be into your life.。
When our life is filled with Jesus, he promised that we can live our life to its fullness.。
And it's so full that we can share these blessings to other people around us.。
And that's exactly what Zacchaeus experienced.。
When Jesus said he wants to enter into his house, his heart was so filled with joy that。
he willingly and happily shared half of his possession to the poor.。
He also promised to give back four times to whoever he cheated in the past.。
When Jesus is in our life, in his life, Zacchaeus is empowered to participate in God's kingdom。
work by sharing the gospel with other people.。
And this good news is not just telling people to believe in Jesus.。
You may have heard a famous quote called "Preach the gospel, use words if necessary."。
That is a quote attributed to St. Francis of Assisi.。
But that is actually a misquote.。
A, St. Francis never said that.。
And B, St. Francis actually meant for his preachers to encourage them to practice what。
they preach.。
So the key here is we should share the gospel with both words and deed.。
And Zacchaeus shared the good news with others by sharing his wealth.。
Financial resources is usually a good way for us to share God's love, but it doesn't。
stop there.。
Remember a few weeks ago when we learned about the church series, the disciples in times。
of act, when they were filled by the Holy Spirit, they spoke in tongue and shared the。
gospel.。
In present time, when we are filled by the Holy Spirit, when we receive Jesus into our。
life, in the current context, we can speak the business language.。
We can speak the family language of love to share the gospel with others.。
Like having lunch with our colleagues or families to have authentic, build our authentic relationship.。
Like listening to others to go through struggles together.。
Or like doing business with love and justice from God.。
In fact, that reminds me, this mask here is from a Christian friend of mine.。
He is managing a mask, but also hiring a bunch of deaf and people cannot speak, cannot hear,。
to work for him and create a mask for the society.。
That's another, this all these other way to share the gospel with people around us.。
And last week, Pastor John said he was, he is, he still is an Alpha-holic and that would。
make me an Alpha-holic junior.。
And next slide please.。
I've been doing Alpha in the marketplace for many years and here's one example here in。
the slide.。
And if you can see, yes, this is right above us on the second floor.。
It was an Alpha that we ran with KFC together with Central Gospel Mission and Alpha Hong。
Kong.。
We had over a hundred people upstairs to have lunch together.。
And generally in Alpha, we share meals with people, a casual meal with our colleagues。
or families or friends.。
And then during the meals, we also engage them with a topic to discuss our faith and。
life and that's a very authentic way to share the gospel with others.。
And in KFC, we plan to run a marketplace Alpha later this year.。
So stay tuned on how you can participate.。
In addition to utilizing our presence in the marketplace, we can also use our work experience。
to build the kingdom of God in church and in the family.。
One example is one of our brothers, David Wong.。
A few weeks ago, he was in the marketplace sharing his experience about cryptocurrency。
investment, a very hot topic investment, and then connected it to God's kingdom value.。
And then also Pastor Johnny, later on in the summer, he will organize several career forums。
for our college students.。
All of us, we can share our work experience, Pastor John earlier, to our next generation.。
We can contribute our experience in God's kingdom.。
God is seeking all of us, not just the pastors, but all of us to join his movement in the。
workplace and in the church for his work.。
But then in doing all this, don't forget, Jesus is with us to do all this work.。
Without Jesus, we can easily burn out or feel powerless when we do God's kingdom work.。
And then head back to this nobody statuses, "Oh, it's so difficult.。
I'm so powerless."。
But like Zacchaeus, when Jesus enters into our life, we are blessed so abundantly that。
we can share God's blessings with others just with our presence in the workplace.。
Our presence, including our work experience or spiritual gift, can be offered as a pleasing。
sacrifice to God for building up the family of God in church and in the marketplace.。
If we feel powerless in doing God's kingdom work, remember this, Jesus wants to enter。
into your life to empower us to join God for his mission.。
Next slide, please.。
Jesus not only restores our identity and empower us, he doesn't stop there.。
He wants to connect us to a community of faith.。
In verse 9 and 10, we just read, Jesus proclaims that salvation has come to the house of Zacchaeus,。
and he is also a son of Abraham.。
Remember earlier, we said that Zacchaeus was despised by his people.。
He was an outcast.。
By calling Zacchaeus a son of Abraham, Jesus is connecting him back to a family, not justified。
by faith and not by works.。
I know many Christians in the marketplace, when we share and pray and share love, I hear。
one common struggle we face, that we feel lonely, we feel alone in the marketplace,。
and we find no support to live out our faith in the workplace.。
Yes, Christians are minority in the workplace.。
And yes, the culture in the world is very different from the biblical values.。
And this loneliness experienced by Christians in the marketplace is caused by a misbelief。
that salvation is only a personal matter, and Christian faith is just a private practice.。
But in this passage, we see from Jesus' proclamation, saying that salvation is also communal in。
nature, and we belong to a family of faith.。
And that family of faith goes beyond these four walls of the church.。
Outside Cornfolk Church, I've been actively connecting with Christians in the marketplace.。
When I first came back to Hong Kong from Boston in 2004, I didn't know anyone in the church。
or in the office, but then I didn't wait.。
I started a Bible study group in my office.。
And then God slowly connecting me to other Christians working in the same building at。
IFC, and we prayed together for our workplace.。
And then things start to happen.。
Next slide.。
Here's some photos in the next few slides.。
The photo on the left is a choir made up by Marketplace in Christians.。
For a few years, we were able to sing Christmas carols at the IFC malls.。
This is such a great opportunity to praise God and testify our faith in our own workplace。
community.。
It also connects us from different churches, different companies, serving together for。
the same mission of God.。
And then the picture to the right, it's also happened in the same place, IFC mall.。
It's a bunch of leaders.。
We call it IFC Alpha, that we've run several years.。
These are just the leaders.。
And over the years, we were able to, just one location, we were able to reach over hundreds。
or even thousands of people at the IFC through Alpha.。
And through, again, having meals with others and chatting about topic about faith.。
Next slide.。
And, but God doesn't stop me just at Central or in my place.。
He also connect me to this citywide network.。
The photos here on the top is a core team of leaders.。
We call it the Alpha Spark Network, that we try to promote Alpha everywhere in the marketplace.。
And then another photo to the right is a small group, what we call a halftime network.。
This is a group of people organized, actually led by also David Wong, to help professionals。
or anyone, or even pastors to seek the significance of our vocation in our second half, like what。
I'm doing.。
And then the photos at the bottom is another movement, citywide movement, called Ecclesiastical。
Movement, that we pray every month through Zoom, over the phone.。
But then here, every year on New Year's Day, we went up to the peak and pray for Hong Kong.。
It's so exciting.。
But then this network, it also takes in different forms.。
Next slide.。
The photos on the left is a group of Christian parents trying to pray for the high school。
attended by my kids, Lucas and Charis.。
And then in that network, we got to meet teachers and pastors working in the school.。
We also get to meet Young Life, the organization James serves, and it's that citywide network.。
It's so exciting to pray for school with others.。
And then the photos on the right is a network that I started two years ago, called Marketplace。
Network for Christ.。
It is a network that we meet every week, even over the past two years, during COVID time,。
we meet every, we gather every week over Zoom and lunchtime, and we seek God in the marketplace。
together.。
And here in this photo, I want to highlight one person here.。
If you have good eyes, you will see that at the bottom and the center, that's Pastor John.。
I have to say that Pastor John is truly a pastor who practices what he preaches.。
Before I worked here at KFCI as intern, I must say, I see Pastor John more in the marketplace。
than in the church office or here in this fellowship hall.。
This man was just everywhere that we meet everywhere, like the Ecclesiastical Network,。
the YMCA, at Alpha, at Movement Day, everything, many other things.。
And even in places you wouldn't expect a Westerner to be there, some Chinese speaking worship。
conference, I also meet Pastor John there.。
He just dedicated his time to walk with Christians in building up this citywide network.。
But what I want to say here is that all this group has one thing in common, that God is。
called, is gathering Christians all over the city to come together and share a journey。
in building a faithful community to seek God's will at wherever we are in our presence, in。
places of our presence.。
Every week I come to KFCI to worship with you all, that's certainly a highlight of my。
week.。
But it doesn't stop here.。
I'm equally excited every week to meet Christians in the marketplace Monday to Friday.。
And we together, we have a mission mindset to seek God's work, God's will in the marketplace。
everywhere in our city.。
That is just so exciting.。
And that community in the marketplace keeps me excited every Monday morning to look forward。
to joining God's adventure with God in the marketplace.。
And all these years I have witnessed one truth.。
You have to remember one thing tonight.。
God is actively at work in our city, in the workplace.。
And He is calling Christians, all of us, at home, at school, in the office, anywhere we。
go to join Him for this kingdom work and building a faithful community.。
Christians are not alone in the marketplace.。
God is with us and He has already put special agents, that is you and me, in the marketplace.。
At home, in the office, at school, everywhere we are.。
We don't need to wait for the church to come out.。
We just need to seek God at wherever we are.。
The Holy Spirit will connect us to a community in the marketplace.。
Let's have a summary of what I just did in this sermon here.。
Next slide, please.。
We are all called to join God to live out our faith in the workplace.。
And in times when we feel lost or when there are so many obstacles in the workplace that。
make us feel like we're so far from Jesus.。
Like Zacchaeus, we can seek Jesus with our hearts at wherever we are and we will be found。
by Jesus.。
In Christ, when we feel that we are nobody, Jesus comes to restore our identity as children。
in God's kingdom.。
Jesus knows our name.。
He knows everything in us.。
Our work Monday to Friday or our service at church, everything matters in God's kingdom.。
In Christ, if you feel powerless, Jesus enters into your life to empower us.。
He fills our life with his love so that we can live it to its fullness and share it to。
others and participate in God's kingdom work with everything we need from God, our gift。
from God.。
And in Christ, if we feel alone, Jesus, God will connect us to a community that's where。
we can belong and have someone to walk with us together in our life.。
So tonight, for those of us, if you have not received Jesus into your life, I invite you。
to seek Jesus into your heart.。
God will restore your identity as children of God.。
He will fill your life to its fullness, and then he will lead you to a family to walk。
this life journey together.。
And for my fellow brothers and sisters in Christ, when you feel lonely, alone, powerless。
at work, I invite you to seek Jesus with your heart as well.。
Jesus, God will recognize your identity and your gift, your whole self in his kingdom.。
He will empower you and fills you with all you need to live out faith.。
And then you are not alone.。
He will connect you to his special agents, his Christians, his people in the workplace,。
in school, at work, everywhere we go to form this faithful community together and to answer。
again back to this call to live out our faith in the workplace.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
