All right, thank you everybody.。
And there is the dream team.。
We might be the daydream team.。
Hopefully we don't get dunked on by these tribal university students.。
We don't know what level of basketball they are, but we will see.。
We will clearly see.。
Speaking of seeing, I'm going to do a little bit of an eye test.。
Has anybody done magic before?。
Magic eye test, these pictures?。
Let's see it.。
All right, who can see?。
So usually the trick is you have to cross your eyes.。
Like, a little bit of a blind eye.。
All right, anybody see it?。
Anybody see it?。
Is the guitar in the way?。
Let me move the guitar.。
What do you guys see?。
Come on.。
Words?。
What words?。
Are you seeing?。
Chinese words?。
I don't think there's Chinese words in this.。
I hear a telephone.。
What do you guys see?。
Nobody can see?。
Come on.。
Can't see?。
Somebody said it.。
Somebody said it.。
It's a spiral.。
Did you see a spiral?。
You can't see the spiral?。
Okay, all right, it's okay.。
We will teach you to see.。
Okay, let's try the next one.。
Let's try the next one.。
Okay, maybe if you stand, you'll be able to see better.。
You're going to try standing.。
Try standing.。
Maybe it's more eye level and you'll be able to see.。
Let's all stand.。
Let's all stand.。
Okay.。
Not better?。
Can anybody see?。
Do you see anything?。
What do you see?。
Nothing.。
Okay.。
Okay, Vincent's good at this.。
Vincent, you should be able to see this.。
You can't do it this way.。
Why not?。
Let me see.。
It doesn't work?。
Can you guys see it?。
It doesn't work?。
Oh, I see it.。
I see it.。
No, it does work.。
I see it.。
Come on, guys.。
I see it.。
No, literally, I do see it.。
Nobody sees it?。
It's not a bunch of fives.。
Gabe, what is it?。
It is the cross.。
There is a cross here in the middle.。
Okay?。
All right, maybe everybody -- Vincent, you don't need to be that close.。
No, I saw it from where Kelly was.。
Okay, everybody sit down.。
I think it's blocking.。
Okay, let's try it.。
Let's try again.。
Next one.。
Next one.。
Let's try again.。
Okay, sit down.。
Pastor John, you're blocking everybody.。
You're preventing people from seeing.。
Okay, so squint your eyes a little bit.。
Cross eye a little bit.。
And you'll be able to see it.。
Okay, is it better without the lights?。
Okay, some people are looking at the screen in the back.。
Okay, I will join you.。
Gordon, you're the eye doctor.。
Come on.。
Can you see it?。
Okay, you guys should see it.。
I see it now.。
I see it now.。
I see it now.。
Anybody see it yet?。
Anybody see it yet?。
Who's seen it?。
Okay, I'll send this out later so you can play with it all night.。
This is your application for the sermon.。
But you should be able to see something like this to there.。
It's supposed to be a heart.。
It's supposed to be the heart.。
All right, we'll skip the next one since you guys are having such a difficult time.。
But this is called magic eye.。
Usually squint your eyes a little bit.。
You maybe cross your eye a little bit.。
You move your eye a little different perspective.。
All right?。
And -- okay, Uncle Vincent is teaching a group in the back.。
It looks like a group of tourists coming from different land to see different things.。
[ Laughter ]。
Uncle Vincent, did you see it?。
Okay, let me see if I can see it in the back.。
Let me see if I can see it in the back.。
No, no, you don't need to drink to see this.。
[ Laughter ]。
Okay.。
You want to do the next one?。
Okay, do the previous one.。
All right.。
Okay, this is the challenge.。
See if you guys can see it.。
Okay, you guys see the cross?。
You see it now?。
Wow, you guys are all winners.。
At the cross, yes, literally there is a cross in the middle.。
Who sees it?。
Raise your hand.。
Who's seen it?。
Okay, we see 5% of the people maybe.。
There's like five hands up.。
Good for you.。
Excellent.。
All right.。
It's okay.。
All right, we don't have time, guys, to look at you trying to see this all night.。
So it takes some skill.。
I didn't know how to do this at first either, but there is some tricks.。
You can look on the Internet or ask Uncle Vincent afterwards.。
But the reason I'm doing this is because we're talking about a person who is blind and he couldn't see.。
But after an encounter with Jesus, he was able to see.。
Let's read Mark chapter 8 together.。
Let's read Mark chapter 8 together.。
Let's read it.。
One, two, three.。
"They came and some people brought a blind man and begged Jesus to touch him.。
He took the blind man by the hand and led him outside the village.。
Then he had spit on the man's eyes and put his hands on him.。
Jesus asked, 'Do you see anything?'"。
Let's continue.。
"He looked up and said, 'I see people.。
They look like trees walking around.'。
Once more Jesus put his hands on the man's eye.。
Then his eyes were opened.。
His sight was restored and he saw everything clearly.。
Jesus sent him home, saying, 'Don't even go into the village.'"。
Alright.。
So, we're looking at this passage.。
And where is Jesus?。
Beth. Bethsaida.。
Okay. Do you guys know what Beth means in Hebrew?。
I don't know. Anybody know?。
Okay. So, it means "house of a fisher."。
Okay. Beth is, I think, it's "house."。
So, it's a small fishing village.。
So, if anybody's been to the Sea of Galilee,。
Bethsaida is on the north side of the Sea of Galilee.。
Okay. And what is it known for?。
Well, Jesus actually talks about Bethsaida specifically afterwards.。
In Matthew chapter 11, "Woe to you, Chorazin!。
Woe to you, Bethsaida!。
For if the miracles that were performed in you。
had been performed in Tir and Sidon,。
they would have repented long ago in Saccoth and Ashes."。
So, there were possibly many miracles that happened.。
And this was another miracle that happened in Bethsaida,。
although it's a bit outside of the town.。
So, this was known as Philip's hometown.。
Philip was one of the disciples of Jesus,。
and it is apparent that he might have grown up here.。
All right. What's interesting about this story。
is that this blind man didn't go to Jesus himself.。
Okay. There's previous blind people that were healed.。
One was like, "Jesus of Nazareth! Jesus of Nazareth! Where are you?"。
Right? And Jesus walking along the road,。
and Jesus heard him.。
Out of all the people in the crowd, he heard him,。
and he went to heal this man.。
But this blind man, he did not...。
It seems as if he did not go to Jesus himself.。
All right. He was brought by a bunch of friends.。
And these friends pleaded with Jesus to heal him.。
Right? What was the word that was used?。
They came, and people brought a blind man。
and begged Jesus to touch him.。
Begged. These people begged on behalf of this blind man。
that he would be healed.。
Pleading with Jesus. Pleading with Jesus.。
And that's the first thing that we see here.。
That this man had amazing friends.。
Amazing friends. Okay?。
And a lot of times, if we are able to admit to ourselves,。
we have our own blind spots.。
We have our own blind spots.。
There are things that we can't see.。
A lot of times when I get into a conflict, right,。
whether it could be at church, at home, or, you know, outside friends,。
I usually check with another person. Right?。
Because maybe I'm too emotionally caught up in this,。
and I'm just like, my perspective is not right.。
I usually, sometimes I play the trick like,。
oh, if I could counsel myself,。
has anybody tried this before? Self-counseling.。
So imagine you are counseling with yourself,。
and you're trying to be not emotional,。
and you're trying to give yourself advice.。
What advice would you give? Right?。
Or, oh, maybe you're too emotional, or you're attached,。
you can't see certain things. All right?。
We have certain blind spots.。
This man was literally blind, and he had special friends.。
Do you have special friends that help you when you cannot see?。
Who thinks they have really special friends。
that point out to them things that they cannot see?。
Sandra, do you point out things to John?。
Agnes, do you point out things to Vincent?。
All the time.。
In the story of the Bible, one story particularly comes out.。
David, who was his best friend?。
Jonathan. Jonathan was his best friend.。
Who was chasing after him?。
Saul, who is Jonathan's dad.。
Weird relationship, right? Really weird relationship.。
So his dad wants to kill David,。
because he's supposed to be the next king,。
and Saul is like, really want to hold on to his power.。
And Jonathan is David's best friend.。
And so, a lot of times, David wanted to give up.。
He wanted to give up. I should just give myself up.。
And Jonathan was like, no, you can't give up.。
God has sworn to you that you will be the next king.。
And I, your friend, am standing beside you,。
even though it's against my father.。
You know, that's a tough situation for Jonathan.。
Who wants to be the best friend of a person。
that your dad wants to kill?。
Anybody want to be in this situation?。
It's a tough situation.。
Hollywood couldn't come up with a better story.。
They copied the story, probably.。
Jonathan was that best friend.。
Many times, David was hiding in a cave.。
The Israel team, did you guys go into some caves in Israel?。
Yeah? Was it fun living in those caves?。
Would you stay overnight?。
You know, you'd have to eat there, do your stuff there.。
Right?。
Saul did something there. He had to go.。
Was it fun? No.。
Saul was chasing him for so many days.。
David wanted to give up also,。
but his friends held on to him,。
told him to not give up.。
Imagine an army chasing after you.。
You know, who's been chased before?。
Anybody want to be on the run?。
Yeah?。
Don't put your hands up, it's okay.。
Who wants to be chased constantly?。
Right? Like the movie, The Fugitive.。
That's the movie.。
Uncle Vincent's time.。
Harrison Ford.。
Always getting chased by the FBI.。
Hiding from house to house.。
Having to change identities.。
Nobody wants to have that.。
But who held David up?。
It was his friends.。
David held up his friends.。
And this blind man?。
I don't know how long he's been blind for,。
but he has some amazing friends.。
And these friends went out of the way。
to take him to Jesus.。
And they begged.。
The NIV word here is begged.。
Have you guys begged for anything in your life?。
Anybody begged for anything?。
Right?。
Maybe your husband is in the hospital.。
You're begging.。
Begging the doctors to do the best that they can.。
I remember in my town in Mississauga,。
we had a church,。
and one of the church members,。
his son, who was a university student,。
suddenly caught cancer.。
Suddenly caught cancer.。
And I don't remember what kind of cancer it was.。
I think it was a tumor in his brain.。
And my parents visited his mom,。
who didn't go to church at that time.。
Only his father went to the church.。
And as soon as my parents went to their house,。
the mother was on the floor,。
begging my parents,。
"Please help my son.。
"Please heal him if you can.。
"Do something. Help."。
Begging.。
And my parents were like,。
"We will pray and beg the Lord on your behalf。
"that his son would be healed."。
And the son went to the Lord.。
He believed in Jesus.。
A couple weeks later, and a couple months later,。
he went to the Lord.。
And so this mom begged on the ground。
towards my parents, who were the pastors,。
for their son.。
Could you imagine Jesus in Hong Kong?。
There's going to be some people。
wanting to get close to him.。
And we have somebody sick.。
And we are going to do our best.。
Me, Kelly, Julian, JP,。
we're going to do our best to bring our friend physically.。
Imagine we don't have a car.。
Imagine we don't--。
Maybe we have a cart with some wooden wheels.。
Is that what we would do?。
And we would bring him physically to Jesus。
in this heat or rain.。
It would take work.。
And then when we get to Jesus,。
we are begging Jesus.。
We're rushing through the crowd,。
and we are begging Jesus on behalf of our friend。
that we probably grew up with,。
that we know well,。
that Jesus would heal him.。
And so the first thing we see here are friends.。
Friends help us to see in our blind spots.。
And the thing is,。
Jesus takes him by the hand。
to the outside of the town.。
Right?。
Why would Jesus do that?。
Take him outside of the town?。
What are some possibilities?。
Maybe the crowd was getting in the way.。
Okay.。
Well, we also saw from that warning from Jesus。
or woe, right?。
If you had seen--。
If you understood the miracles,。
you should have repented.。
Right?。
That was the warning from Jesus.。
Maybe the people inside were against Jesus,。
unrepentant, unwilling to change.。
Or maybe Jesus wanted to deal with this man one-on-one,。
mono and mono, in solitude.。
Isn't that sometimes what Jesus does with us?。
That we're caught up in this Hong Kong rat race,。
trying to get up the corporate ladder,。
trying to get through school,。
from DSE to university to find a job.。
We're caught up in this tsunami of life.。
And Jesus wants to just take us by the hand。
to be with us alone.。
Maybe you're in that situation。
that Jesus wants to just talk to you one-on-one.。
Maybe you've been even doing good things,。
serving at church for so many years,。
leading Bible studies, leading people to Jesus,。
but you've been caught up in works.。
And Jesus just wants to be with you one-on-one。
and speak to you one-on-one.。
Are you in that situation now?。
That God wants to take you out of your town,。
into private, and speak to you one-on-one.。
And we look at this healing process.。
So, why does Jesus heal in this way?。
There's a two-step process we see.。
So the first thing Jesus does is he spits,。
two, two, right, into the man's eyes.。
Okay?。
Dr. Gordon, do you use this for your healing process?。
[laughs]。
I've been to his clinic.。
I don't think he did that.。
Before I was drugged, I'm joking.。
So, it was a two-step process.。
Jesus spit in this man's eyes, okay?。
And then he put his hands on his eyes, okay?。
And then he asks a question.。
Do you see?。
Do you see?。
Dr. Gordon, do you do a two-step process for your healing?。
[laughs]。
Sandra would know.。
She's been in the clinic, okay, recently.。
Do you see?。
And this indicates the healing process has sort of begun.。
What does the man say?。
Do you guys remember?。
"Well, I sort of see."。
What did he say?。
"I see people that look like trees.。
I see trees of green."。
Is that the song?。
[laughs]。
Maybe that's where he got it from, this song, huh?。
"See trees of green," all right?。
And this man, what does this say about this man?。
That he sees sort of people that look like trees.。
It must mean that he wasn't specifically born blind.。
He must have seen people before or trees before, right?。
That's one possibility, that he wasn't born blind.。
Something must have happened.。
We don't know what, all right?。
Because he's describing things that he sees.。
And then there is a second laying of hands upon the eyes,。
and then he is able to see it clearly.。
Complete healing, complete healing, complete healing.。
Now, is spitting part of Jesus' healing process?。
Have we seen this before?。
Actually, there are other parallel miracles that he does use spit, okay?。
In John chapter 9, there's a man born blind.。
He spits in some mud and puts the mud with saliva onto the eyes in John chapter 9。
and tells him to clean his eyes, the mud from his eyes in the pool, okay?。
So Jesus has used spit before.。
There's another man in Mark chapter 10, later verses, a blind man,。
and Jesus does not use spit, okay?。
Jesus uses spoken word, "Be healed, see," right?。
And so it's interesting, however, that Jesus uses spitting on the eyes for this process.。
Now, some people say -- I'm going to skip a couple of slides, actually --。
why does Jesus heal this man this way?。
One possibility, maybe the blind man's eyes were really dirty,。
and he needed some washing, right?。
Have you guys waken up before, and there's some stuff in your eyes, right?。
You've got to -- oh, can't see clearly, right?。
Maybe there's some stuff in his eyes.。
There's this quote from Howard, the commentary,。
"To remove the dirt and dried secretions from the eyelids preparatory to the healing," okay?。
So that's one view.。
The other view is could Jesus have miscalculated the miracle?。
Could Jesus have miscalculated, okay?。
Not enough laying of hands or not enough spit, right?。
Could Jesus have had a bad day?。
I had a bad day.。
Yeah?。
Attitude? Okay, Uncle Vincent will sing it for us later.。
Could Jesus have had an off day?。
You know, we all have off days.。
Jesus is fully human and fully God.。
Could he have had a bad day?。
Well, that possibly is not the case because we see the healing is well on its way, right?。
We see that Jesus is not lacking in power or is weak that day.。
Another possibility is could this man not have had enough faith?。
Or since Jesus was testing his faith, what do you see, right?。
He wasn't willing, maybe he wasn't willing to open his eyes yet, right?。
And so Jesus wanted to test him to be like, "How great is your faith? What do you see?"。
Right?。
And so that could be a third possibility.。
A third possibility.。
But what is most likely here is that we believe Jesus can heal in many ways.。
He can heal instantly.。
He can heal through a process.。
Sometimes Jesus can say, "Your healing will take place in eternity."。
That is sometimes God's will.。
It could be now.。
It could be later.。
It could be not till eternity.。
Has any of us begged the Lord to take away something or heal something in your life?。
Yeah?。
Has Jesus healed right away, immediately?。
A lot of times he doesn't heal immediately.。
Sometimes it's a process of trusting him.。
There's a process, two-step process, three-step, ten-step process.。
Sometimes healing takes time.。
And it is us needing to trust him in his perfect timing.。
There is a person in our university group that recommended his friend to talk to me.。
His friend was in Toronto, and he had just broken up with his girlfriend, or his girlfriend left him.。
Okay?。
All right.。
Don't laugh, Charles.。
It might happen to you.。
[laughter]。
I'm sorry.。
I'm sorry for being mean.。
Forgive me.。
So he was--because this girl had broken up with him, okay, he was going through a very hard time.。
And he was even contemplating suicide.。
Okay?。
And so for months and months I was talking to him.。
I was like, "No, you don't need to commit suicide."。
He was trying to commit suicide so that his girlfriend would notice him and maybe take him back.。
You know, this ongoing cycle, right, of hurting myself so people would notice.。
I was just trying to go through some counseling with him, talking through with him.。
He was caught up in this box of this girlfriend being the idol in his life.。
And he lost this idol, and he lost--so he lost motivation, he lost purpose of his life because he lost his girlfriend.。
And he had so much regret and remorse.。
It was, "Oh, I had so many things I could have done better so that maybe my girlfriend would have kept me."。
You know, and they kept going to the same university, so there's times that they would bump into each other,。
and that would cause more hurt because they keep seeing each other over and over again.。
And so it was such a long process of having to talk to this person and trying to help him to go to the Lord,。
asking the Lord for healing for him, for his heart.。
And it seemed like an endless process, right, months after months.。
And then eventually I saw a breakthrough.。
He started going to a certain church, and he found a certain community.。
And the most important thing is he found a new purpose.。
A new purpose.。
This girl had become such an important motivation, purpose in his life, that when it was gone, it was like heart surgery.。
And slowly he filled his heart once again with the right purpose, and that was God himself.。
And God slowly changed his mind, healed his heart, and he begun to seek after the Lord.。
Healing was a process.。
And I admit, there were times where I didn't know whether this friend would be healed.。
I didn't know.。
It was a difficult process.。
There were times where he would mess it and be like, "I don't know if I can go on any longer."。
It was a process.。
And sometimes God heals us in a process.。
Let's look at this healing even more.。
Let's look at the miracles in Mark to look at another reason why Jesus might have healed in a two-step process.。
Okay, cycle number one, miracles in Mark.。
Cycle number one, if you look at Mark chapter 6, Jesus feeds the 5,000.。
And then he has a debate with the Pharisees and scribes.。
Who are you to heal?。
Who are you to be feeding?。
Under what authority?。
He has a debate.。
And then there was a healing of a death man in Mark chapter 7 that followed.。
So in verse 33, "After he took him aside, away from the crowd, Jesus put his finger into the man's ear.。
Then he spit and touched the man's tongue."。
Now that's interesting, right?。
Once again, he uses spit.。
Okay, I'm not saying store up your spit for some spiritual miracle afterwards, okay?。
That's not what I'm saying.。
I'm just saying these are the observations that I'm making.。
So there is bread, the feeding.。
There is a debate.。
And then there is a speech, right, a healing.。
That's the first cycle.。
Let's compare the first cycle with the second cycle, okay?。
So the second cycle, we also see, okay, actually it's the feeding of the 4,000.。
4,000, Mark chapter 8, feeding of the 4,000.。
And then there is also a debate with the Pharisees and scribes in Mark chapter 8, verses 10 and 12.。
Once again, there is a debate.。
And then next, there is also a healing.。
And this is the story we're looking at today, the healing of a blind man.。
Both instances, there is a feeding.。
Both instances, there is a debate.。
And in both instances, there is a healing.。
One of a deaf man and one of a blind man.。
And interestingly, Jesus both uses spit in both healings.。
And so, what does it mean?。
What could it mean that Jesus was using this two-step process?。
So, we went through several reasons, right?。
It could be -- what were the reasons I said?。
The man's eyes were dirty and needed to be cleaned out first.。
It could be that Jesus wanted to show that he can heal in many different ways, right?。
Not only can he heal instantly, he can heal in a process, a two-step process.。
The third and final reason why Jesus might heal in this way, it had to relate with the disciples.。
This two-step process of healing was a reflection of the disciples' blindness.。
Okay, in Mark 8, following this healing, let's read together verse 27.。
Okay, verse 27.。
Okay, let's read together. One, two, three.。
[Audience reading verse 27]。
"People say, 'I am.' They replied, 'Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and still others the prophets.'"。
Okay, continue.。
"But who do you say about me?" Sorry. "But what do you say about me?"。
He asked, "Who do you say I am?"。
Peter answered, "You are the Messiah. You are the Messiah."。
It's interesting because disciples have seen water turn into wine.。
The disciples have seen the healing of the blind, the healing of the deaf, healing of the leper.。
And yet, maybe some of them have still been questioning, "Who is Jesus really?。
Is he just one of the prophets? Is he like John the Baptist?"。
Right?。
Who is Jesus? Who is Jesus?。
And it is after this specific event in Caesarea Philippi that the disciples are now starting to truly see。
that Jesus is not just a miracle worker.。
Jesus is not just another prophet.。
Jesus is not just like John the Baptist.。
He is something more.。
He is the Messiah, the one who is promised in the Old Testament.。
Let's look at Isaiah chapter 35.。
It says this, "Be strong, do not fear, your God will come.。
He will come with vengeance, with divine retribution. He will come to save you.。
Then will the eyes of the blind be open and the ears of the deaf unstopped."。
The Jews, they memorized. A lot of them memorized the Old Testament.。
A lot of them knew what the promises of the Messiah would be, the signs of the Messiah would be.。
And after this healing of the blind person, was it truly evidence,。
was it truly proved that Jesus is the one that was promised.。
That he would come to save you.。
The eyes of the blind are opened.。
The deaf would hear.。
Jesus could be using this two-step healing process to reveal that the disciples' blindness would also one day be healed.。
That they would see.。
The first part of Jesus' ministry, the disciples couldn't really see.。
They didn't really know who exactly Jesus was.。
But after this healing, the second step, they could start to see.。
And it wasn't after the resurrection that they truly understood who Jesus was.。
Even during the crucifixion or before the crucifixion, they didn't really understand.。
"Wherever you go, we will follow."。
"No, no, no. The place that I'm going, you cannot come.。
But I will send another helper and he will be with you forever."。
It was a two-step process.。
And so the question for us today is also, do we see the real Jesus?。
Do we see the real Jesus?。
If you actually look at this, this is actually a picture of the crucifixion.。
We just came back from Explorer Camp and Pastor James was doing the speaking at the camp.。
And he was really talking on the theme of real versus fake.。
Real versus fake.。
And a lot of times in our life, we don't know if it's real or fake.。
Especially some of the things you buy.。
And Pastor James was talking about the process of buying shoes sometimes.。
You don't know whether it's real or it's fake.。
And sometimes you got to look on the internet to see the comparisons between the reals and the fakes.。
And sometimes the reals are so real.。
They're even better quality sometimes than the fakes.。
Oh, sorry. The fakes are better quality than the reals.。
The real shoes.。
I remember sometimes I'm buying second-hand shoes.。
And I don't want to do that because you don't know sometimes whether it's real or fake.。
You buy it, you compare it, you look at the logo, you look at the material, you look at the box, you look at some of the codes and the numbers.。
And it looks real, but you don't really know for sure.。
You don't know.。
And so Pastor James also used another example.。
Who got their COVID shot?。
It should be everybody almost, right?。
Because Hong Kong is great at that.。
Do you know what they do in the vaccine?。
What do they put in you?。
Is it some special sauce?。
Ketchup?。
What do they put in you?。
They put in you, it's supposed to be a weak version of the virus.。
Or a very weak version.。
So that when your body recognizes it and has already healed from it.。
And so when the real version of the virus comes in, it already knows, "Oh, I've gone through this."。
I can heal easily.。
And so a lot of times we have a weaker version of Jesus.。
Or a version that we want to see.。
We want to see Jesus as a miracle worker.。
We want to see Jesus as a genie in a bottle.。
"Oh, when I need help, I'll rub the genie and hopefully he'll be there."。
Or a light switch.。
"Oh, I'm going to turn it off six days of the week, but when I'm at church on Saturday, I'm going to turn it on and put on my happy Jesus face."。
What version of Jesus do you have?。
Is it a weakened version?。
Is it a fake version?。
Or is it the real Jesus?。
He's not just a miracle worker.。
He's not just like another prophet.。
He is the Messiah.。
The one who is.。
The one who was and will come again.。
Do you know the real Jesus?。
When I was small and I grew up in the church, I saw Jesus was just another Bible story.。
Another figure.。
At eight years old, when I asked Jesus into my life, I started to see Jesus as someone I could talk to.。
Someone I could pray to.。
When I was 14 and I dedicated my life to Jesus, and Jesus touched my heart and moved me, I saw Jesus as a king that I needed to serve.。
As a king that I needed to serve.。
That I gave up my life to serving.。
As I've gone through the ups and downs of life, I've seen Jesus as a friend who stood by me.。
Who's been there for me.。
And as I've gone through different circumstances in life, I've started to see that Jesus and God is a father.。
A father who cares.。
A father who loves.。
A father who's always there.。
Have you seen the real Jesus?。
Have you seen the real Jesus?。
As I invite the band to come up, I want us to take some time to reflect.。
Who is Jesus to you?。
Is he just a historical figure?。
Who is Jesus to you?。
Is he just somebody that you know of?。
Or is Jesus your friend?。
Someone you personally know.。
Someone you personally understand.。
Jesus wants to be your friend.。
He wants to be your savior.。
He wants to be your king.。
He wants to be the king of your heart.。
Who is Jesus to you?。
We're going to sing the song.。
It's called "Amazing Grace."。
Amazing grace, how sweet the sound.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
I once was blind, but now I can see.。
And that led him to write this song,。
"Amazing Grace."。
Let us stand and respond.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
