Happy New Year everyone, Salim Failak. Good. 1st of January 2022. 1 1 2 2. It's today.。
But why is 1 1 2 2 such a significant date? I'll tell you. It's the first day。
of the rest of your life. And it's the first date for 365 days that does not。
include 2021. Many of us will not be too sad to say goodbye to 2021. 2021 was a。
challenging year. Let's put it that way. In our Chinese calendar, 2021 is the year。
of the Ox. I looked it up. It's supposed to bring stability and calmness. Yes. In。
Hong Kong and elsewhere, it has been anything other than stable and calm. The。
coronavirus has introduced the alpha, the beta, the gamma, the delta, and now the。
Omicron variants to us. We've had vaxes, double vaxes, booster jabs. COP26, yes, and。
its attempt to influence climate control sadly came across as a little bit of a。
damp squib. Vacations, do you remember them? Vacations have now become staycations,。
including cruises to nowhere. And James is an expert on that if you want to ask。
anything about cruises to nowhere. Political tension has risen around the。
world with most societies, including our own, becoming increasingly polarized. But。
what sort of year has 2021 been for us as a church? Let's take a brief look in。
words and pictures. I'm going to get a slide so you can see this. In January, a。
year ago today, two weddings. Hanani and Sincere, Michelle and Philemon. January。
the 1st, we had two weddings. But worship was on Zoom. Remember that? Our first。
sermon series, Our Living Hope, was from one Peter. And in January, we had our。
first G5 Pre-Chat, Gabe, and wasn't he fantastic? Amazing. February, special。
Chinese New Year service, panel style, Julian and Florence, Christina and James,。
and worship continued on Zoom. By then, we were getting used to Zoom because。
people were showing their kids, their dogs, and everything on Zoom. It was。
amazing. March, the Wiley campaign, the start of our Easter series, Mark My Word,。
the Gospel of Mark, but worship continued on Zoom. April, worship was back live.。
Let's have a cheer. Come on. But we maintained YouTube. And interestingly,。
for every one of you that is here tonight, there are three people watching。
on YouTube. So turn again and wave to the people on YouTube. Yeah,。
we've kept YouTube going. Baptism. Baptism during Easter weekend.。
We had to find a private beach. You remember that? And it was Mark and Anthony。
and Ken. And we had the start of the sermon series, Beware but Grow,。
to Peter. May was actually a busy month because by now we're live, right?。
Start of a series, Women in the Old Testament. I loved that series.。
We welcomed six new members to KFC Church. We had baby dedications,。
not one but two but three baby dedications, Autumn and Harper and Ilana.。
We had a Mother's Day service. We had our second G5 preacher, and it was Julian,。
but I got his name wrong. He was amazing. And congratulations to Rebecca。
and Lawrence, another couple. The family is growing. It's good. I love it.。
Got married in May. June, we had our local mission trip,。
which would be the first of many local mission trips. You know, Johnny loves。
to go on overseas mission trips. It didn't work out this year,。
but we had lots of local mission trips. We started...Michelle started Bridge 2.。
But also sadly, we had to send Kelly off. We prayed Kelly to go.。
In July, we started Don't Give the Enemy a Seat at Your Table.。
And we had our first gathering of sisterhood. Yeah, a few cheers.。
That's good. In August, we had our third G5 preacher, which was Paul.。
Amazing. Absolutely amazing. Baptism, another three candidates we had。
down at Repulse Bay Beach. But we were sending off again. Julian,。
back to UK, but he's come back to us. It's lovely. But Joanne,。
back to the Philippines. And September would see my last sermon before Sandra。
and I's extended break. We started the KFCi Kids Club.。
We haven't got a lot of kids at the moment, but we started our children's ministry.。
We started Alpha. We didn't have a lot of people on Alpha, but we did Alpha,。
and people came to Christ. We started a sermon series,。
Charge 1 and 2 Timothy. In October, very important, the Restore Summit,。
a dialogue on mental health and faith. People joining us from other churches,。
from Young Life, from YWAM. It was amazing. And then we had that wonderful。
mission service weekend where James and Jo were preaching together.。
It was lovely. November, I can only give November to Mo.。
I mean, Mo just took the show from me. I mean, like, our last G5 preacher,。
so many creative elements, including a hand-drawn sermon illustration。
and a self-written rap during the sermon. That was amazing.。
So December, Sandra and I returned. We started a Christmas Advent series,。
the Nativity scene. I gave my first sermon in three months.。
We had a Christmas Day service, including special performances。
by different clans. And only yesterday, we had a trilingual New Year's Eve series.。
Quite a year. But why am I excited by 2022? On this day, 1-1-2-2.。
Look at these verses. You've seen them before. Isaiah 43.。
"Forget the former things. Do not dwell on the past.。
See, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it?。
I am making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland.。
See, I am doing a new thing." My tradition in almost 20 years as a pastor。
has been at the New Year to preach a sermon which, as it were,。
looks back but looks forward. And in that 20 years, I have never been。
more convinced that the church has perhaps its biggest opportunity in history.。
You may remember Cameo, 52 weeks old, and it still applies.。
KFC, KFCI remains a multilingual, multicultural, multigenerational church。
in unity, community, with a heart for mission and evangelism,。
expressed in those five letters. So I sat down to pray about 2022.。
And what God showed me was very simple. God just showed me hands.。
Just look at your hands for a moment. God just showed me hands.。
And I believe He said to me, "This is the way that I want this。
congregation to move forward in 2022, and it's represented by hands."。
The hand is probably the most frequently symbolized part of the human body.。
It gives blessing. We just sang it, didn't we?。
It is expressive. According to Aristotle, the hand is the tool of tools.。
In general, it is strength, power, and protection.。
However, it can quite equally mean generosity, hospitality, and stability.。
And this is what I see. Firstly, hands linked together in unity.。
Can we see that one?。
Boom.。
So actually, just link hands with a person next to you.。
Hands linked together. Check if they're triple vax first.。
Hands linked together in unity. Hands linked together building unity.。
Secondly, I saw hands raised in an incessant worship.。
Let's all do this together. Raised in incessant worship.。
Hands reaching out, evangelistically driven.。
Let's reach out. Hands available, being outward focused.。
Hands that were anointed, healing our city.。
And lastly, let's just do this. Hands representing emotional health.。
And as we do this, we come to the theme, which is the theme for Gong Fo Church this year.。
The Holy Spirit has been speaking to us as a church.。
And our theme as a church for 2022 is this.。
Health for all, all for God.。
You're going to hear those words quite a bit over the next few months.。
So 2022, we see as a vision, health for all, all for God.。
And so I want to be a bit more specific about it and see what I see within that.。
So firstly, the unity. Hands together, linked together, building a unity.。
And my vision for this congregation is this, that every person who comes to this congregation。
would be in a small group community.。
Now, it might be clans, it might be sisterhood, it might be something.。
But that we would not have anybody who is not linked into a small group.。
Small group is where growth take it.。
If you're not in a small group, you need to get in one.。
Our clans will always be that thing which would be driving it.。
Sisterhood.。
And the good news is that we'll be launching something very soon for the men.。
It will not be called brotherhood.。
But I had a wonderful conversation with Josh Luke this week.。
And Josh is going to be working with me alongside me on this.。
And we believe as we look in the church around the world, the thing that's really missing,。
real men.。
Real men.。
So we're going to have a group here which focuses on what it means to be a real man.。
And family.。
I mean, we don't get many young people on a Saturday afternoon at 5.30.。
It's not a good time for families.。
But I've been speaking to Christina and to James.。
And we've got this vision.。
It's still an early stage now where we would love eventually to have a family service.。
We don't know where.。
We don't know when.。
But what we'll be doing this year is maybe starting a super clan for families as a pop-up。
shop, as a way of moving towards a family service.。
All ages, remember, is part of who we are.。
So unity.。
So important to us.。
That's why I put it first.。
Secondly, worship.。
Hands raised in incessant worship.。
I have a vision for worship.。
Not for a congregation that sees worship as a few songs at the beginning of the service.。
You know, as a sort of warm-up act for the preacher.。
But a congregation who believes in using all we are and all we have to praise God for all。
he is and all he does.。
I want to honour the worship team and particularly Paul.。
Paul has done an amazing job.。
In fact, actually, can we have a round of applause?。
This guy does amazing.。
He was doing trilingual worship last night and monolingual worship.。
But Paul and the whole worship team, I want to honour them week after week, what they。
bring to us.。
And Paul's idea was to start this thing called Restore, you know, where we could have a night。
where we could just all worship together.。
The good news, at the end of this month on the 28th, there'll be an opportunity for us。
to come together and just worship.。
But I just want to encourage us that worship is something that we are and not something。
we just do at the beginning of the service.。
Evangelism, hands reaching out, evangelistically driven.。
So yes, we were doing alpha, but alpha won't be the only thing that we'll be doing.。
Mission, we've now into a situation here where because we cannot do overseas missions, and。
the problem with overseas missions is a few people go overseas, right?。
And the rest of us stay here.。
Oh, we'll pray for you.。
Yeah, we do that, right?。
But actually, what we find with city missions is we can all do it.。
And my vision, again, would be that everybody would find a way to be able to be involved。
in mission in this city.。
We're going to be having a focus on the workplace, workplace and faith.。
I'm very pleased that Anthony Singh over there is going to be joining us as an intern, working。
this year and working specifically on the interaction between workplace and faith.。
Workplace and faith in this church, workplace and faith in the Church of Hong Kong, and。
the workplace and faith around the world.。
It's going to be a focus for us.。
Healing hands, anointed, healing our city.。
We live in a divided city.。
We're divided generationally, politically.。
There's even divisions in the church.。
My heart for this year, my commitment this year is to build bridges and not build walls.。
That's what gets me up in the morning.。
And on the subject of healing hands, we're going to be looking at ways to promote health.。
We'll be looking at programs like the Cleansing Stream program later in the year, which leads。
me to the subject of emotional health.。
This I believe is the number one issue in the church today around the world.。
One thing which COVID has actually exaggerated even is the mental health situation, the emotional。
health.。
And that is why Kong Fuk Church this year has decided that our slogan, our theme, our。
vision is health for all and all for God.。
You know, people who are emotionally healthy are in control of their thoughts, feelings,。
and behaviors.。
They're able to cope with life's challenges and boy, we're going to have some challenges。
this year, I know.。
They can keep problems in perspective and bounce back from setbacks.。
They feel good about themselves and have good relationships.。
Sandra and I took three months off, including quarantine, three months off earlier this。
year and it was extended leave.。
It came for me after a bout of clinical depression.。
I'd shared this with you before.。
But in the last two years, I've been going through some clinical depression.。
And I decided to read a book while I was away called "The Emotionally Healthy Leader."。
Some of you may have seen it, some of you may have read it.。
Pete Sokera was a guy we've met.。
But you know, as I read this book, do you know what I realized?。
I'm not an emotionally healthy leader.。
Our church is not an emotionally healthy church.。
Hong Kong is not an emotionally healthy place.。
And what I started to do is I started to say, "God, look, actually, I'm more emotionally。
healthy than that person over there."。
You know, ABC.。
Or we're more emotionally healthy as a church than that church down the road.。
That's missing the point.。
We are not to compare ourselves.。
And to start our year, to set the scene for what is ahead of us, I want to look just briefly。
at four characteristics of an emotionally unhealthy leader.。
And you might say, "I'm not a leader."。
Well, we all are.。
Because maybe that's another one of my visions, that we would all be leaders.。
I discovered that the deficit of emotionally unhealthy leaders impact virtually every area。
of their lives and leadership.。
However, that damage is evident, especially in four characteristics.。
And I want to briefly look at them.。
Number one, emotionally unhealthy leaders have very low self-awareness.。
They tend to be unaware of what's going on inside of them.。
And even when they recognize a strong emotion such as anger, they fail to process it or。
express it honestly and appropriately.。
They ignore emotion-related messages their body may be sending them.。
Stress-induced illness, weight gain, ulcers, headaches, or depression.。
They avoid reflecting on their fears, their sadness, or their anger.。
They fail to consider how God might be trying to communicate with them through these difficult。
emotions.。
They struggle to articulate the reasons for their emotional triggers, their overreactions。
in the present rooted in difficult experiences from the past.。
Number two, they prioritize ministry over marriage or singleness.。
This is so important here in Hong Kong.。
As your pastor, my prayer is that you fully embrace your marriedness.。
And also for those of you who are single, you embrace your singleness.。
I'll be honest with you, the prayer I've prayed the most since I've been in Hong Kong, young。
ladies come up to me, "Pastor, can you pray for a husband for me?"。
I say, "What time do you finish work?"。
They say, "9.30."。
I say, "You don't need me to pray."。
Those of you who are single, I'm saying, have got to learn to embrace your singleness.。
And those of us who are married have got to learn to embrace that.。
You won't hear this in many churches.。
I've got to say this.。
Now whether married or single, most emotionally unhealthy leaders affirm the importance of。
a healthy intimacy in relationships and lifestyle.。
But few, if any, have vision for their marriage or singleness as the greatest gift they offer.。
Instead, they view their marriage or their singleness as an essential or stable foundation。
for something more important, like building an effective ministry, which becomes their。
first priority.。
You know, you've seen it.。
Emotionally unhealthy leaders tend to compartmentalize their married or single life, separating it。
both from their leadership and their relationship with Jesus.。
For example, they make significant leadership decisions without thinking through the long-term。
impact those decisions could have on the quality and integrity of their single or married life.。
They dedicate their best energy, their thought and creative efforts to leading others, and。
they fail to invest in a rich and full married or single life.。
I want to give you a question.。
Can any of you spot Michelle in the congregation?。
Where's Michelle?。
She's not here.。
I tell you why she's not here.。
Today is her wedding anniversary.。
And I've told her, on her wedding anniversary, she needs to be with her husband.。
And that's the sort of thing I'm talking about, the sort of priority that we have today.。
"Oh, yes, I could take two hours off to come to church."。
No.。
I'm very serious about this.。
I'm just so sick of that friends in the church getting divorced and breakups and breakup。
relationships.。
This leads on to number three.。
We all do this.。
They do more activity for God than their relationship with God can sustain.。
This is so prevalent in Hong Kong.。
If I go up to someone in Hong Kong and say, "How are you?"。
What do they answer?。
"I'm busy."。
You laugh, but you should be crying.。
Shoot.。
Activity, activity, activity.。
Emotionally extended leaders, emotionally unhealthy leaders are chronically overextended.。
Although they routinely have too much to do in too little time, they persist in a knee-jerk。
yes to new opportunities.。
"Can you do this?"。
"Yes."。
Before prayerfully and discerning God's will.。
Now the reason I know this, I know this from personal experience.。
I am one of the biggest culprits.。
I'm preaching to myself here.。
The notion of slowed down spirituality or slowed down leadership in which they're doing。
for Jesus flows out of their being with Jesus is a foreign concept.。
If they think of it at all, spending time in solitude and silence is viewed as a luxury。
or something best suited for a different kind of leader and not part of their core spiritual。
practices or essential for effective leadership.。
Their first priority is leading their organization, team, or ministry as a means of impacting the。
world for Christ.。
If you were to ask them to write down a list of their top three priorities for how they。
spend their time as a leader, it's unlikely that cultivating a deep transformative relationship。
with Jesus would make that list.。
As a result, fragmentation and depletion constitute the normal condition for their lives and leadership.。
And number four, these are all related together, they lack a work Sabbath rhythm.。
Many unhealthy leaders do not practice Sabbath.。
We will be spending one week, I've got to tell you this, we will be spending one week。
concentrating just on Sabbath.。
A weekly 24-hour period in which they cease all work and rest, delight in God's gifts。
and enjoy life with him.。
And they feed their soul.。
A day off is not a Sabbath.。
If they practice Sabbath at all, they do it inconsistently, believing that they need to。
finish all their work or work hard enough to earn their right to rest.。
Now why am I saying all this?。
I'm sorry this is not tickle your ear type stuff, but this is what's really in my heart。
at the moment.。
I'm saying this because emotional health and spiritual health are inseparable.。
I've learned this truth the hard way through personal experience.。
And that's why I've spent so much of my vision 2022 talk on it.。
My prime vision for 2022, above all those other things I described, is an emotionally。
healthy church.。
As a worldwide, as a citywide church, as KFC church, we are only just beginning to realize。
that discipleship must include addressing the emotional brokenness that is part of every。
member of the congregation, including probably more especially us as pastors.。
Closer examination of our experience of imbalanced spirituality combined with the spiritual busyness。
of ministry leads us to discover that we've not allowed Jesus to penetrate to the core。
of our person and meet our deepest needs.。
So what's the answer?。
The good news is that we're going to be doing a journey together, all of us.。
And our intended destination is emotional health.。
As I said at the beginning, I believe it is the most important issue facing the worldwide。
church.。
Sandra and I speak to leaders all around the world on a regular basis, and this is coming。
up time and time again.。
This is the most important issue at the moment.。
And I'm going to spend the next few minutes, as it were, giving you a trailer for what。
you can expect.。
I want to start by asking the question, why do we need this?。
I believe that many of our church, our current church discipleship models do not address。
the issues of emotional and relational maturity that make up the core of human experience.。
Therefore, many Christians look just like those outside the church.。
And we have the same type of broken, failed relationships as unbelievers.。
Christians may be considered spiritually mature while not truly reaching emotional adulthood.。
The current discipleship models do not address this unbalanced spirituality.。
The training provided in essential areas of discipleship, such as prayer and Bible study,。
essential as they are, need to be supplemented by a new model that's based on Jesus's life.。
Our journey together is going to be rooted in Scripture, and it's going to be rooted。
in the life of Jesus, and will help us see what spiritual maturity looks like as it relates。
to emotional health, especially in loving other people.。
The church is God's instrument for showing His love, His hands to the world.。
It is also one of God's tools in developing spiritual and emotional maturity in His people.。
Integrating emotional maturity with a focus on loving well into discipleship is a key。
to meeting the purpose God has for the church, to be a reflection of His love for the world.。
So as go the leaders, go the church.。
God wants to penetrate and heal the lives of His people, not just the leaders.。
I want to share with you the biblical basis for a new paradigm of discipleship, and it's。
Jesus.。
Jesus is the model for how His followers should live and minister.。
This is universally understood as the basis for all discipleship models.。
Those models don't realize that Jesus, read the Gospels again, Jesus doesn't push His。
emotional life to the side.。
We will learn together over the next few weeks, Jesus was a human being who dealt with the。
spiritual, emotional, physical, and social aspects of His life.。
Jesus was a whole person.。
He freely expressed His emotions in the same way His followers must address every aspect。
of their humanity, not just the spiritual.。
One cannot be spiritually mature while remaining emotionally immature.。
I'll say it again, one cannot be spiritually mature while remaining emotionally immature.。
Don't worry, we're going to tackle this together.。
Together we will discover six important principles.。
I'll put them on the chart.。
I won't go through them today.。
We'll be discovering this.。
And I've come up with a key verse for our time together.。
Maybe we can read it together, Philippians 4.。
Ready?。
One, two, three.。
Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving,。
let your requests be known to God.。
And the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ。
Jesus.。
Philippians 4, 6-7.。
Thank you.。
This is what the next four months will look like.。
It's a sandwich.。
The bread is emotional health and the filling is unity.。
Starting next week, we will have seven sermons in our Emotionally Healthy series, "Health。
for All, All for God," addressing the key issues I mentioned with a biblical basis,。
with clan material to complement it.。
On February the 26th, we will start the "I Am" series, the one campaign.。
An eight-week sermon series on the seven "I Am" segments of John's gospel that Jesus said,。
together with a special small group study.。
And then two specials at the end.。
On April the 23rd, which is my birthday, in case you want to note that down.。
Good.。
Emotional health in the light of incarnation, in the light of Jesus being born.。
And then on April the 30th, emotional health in the power of the resurrection.。
I for one, are excited.。
I trust you are.。
And for those people watching online, I trust you are too.。
So your question, as I ask the worship band to come back, is how do I respond?。
And really, I'm going to ask you to respond.。
We're going to be taking communion in a moment.。
But before that, I want you to ask to respond by just...。
I want to bring back hands again.。
By just offering your hands to God, I'm going to pray for you.。
So let's just do that.。
This is the 1st of January, 2022.。
We can make a choice.。
We can live this year our way.。
We can come up with a list of things we want to do.。
Tick them off, bucket lists.。
Or we can say, "God, here I am.。
I'm available."。
Father, I ask you to come by your Holy Spirit, to take these hands, that these hands would。
reach out to those around me, that I would be an agent of unity.。
Take these hands of my whole body and, Lord, make me a worshiper.。
The worship would be not something I do on a Saturday afternoon, but with my whole life.。
Lord, take these hands, make them outward-focused to the people in our city that we need to。
reach out to.。
Lord, make them evangelistic.。
Show me, Lord, the people you want to reach for you.。
Lord, anoint my hands for healing.。
Lord, that I would be an agent of your love with everyone I see.。
Lord, that I would just be able to put my arms around the ones who are sad and discomfort.。
I would lay hands upon the sick.。
I would reach out to the poor.。
Reach out to the widows and the orphans.。
Reach out to those who feel disaffected in our city.。
Lord, I want to give you my emotions.。
I feel it's so important at the beginning of this year we give God our emotions.。
And I declare, Lord, I am not in the place that I need to be.。
This church is not in the place we need to be.。
Lord, help us as we journey together and discuss and learn and experience what it is to be。
an emotionally healthy church.。
And Lord, I recognize I cannot do any of this on my own.。
I need you.。
Holy Spirit, fill me afresh.。
Lord, we cannot live off last year's anointing.。
2021 is gone.。
This is a new year.。
Take my hands and use them for your glory.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
