It's great to see everybody today.。
We're starting a new series and it is our Advent Christmas series.。
When you think of Christmas, what's the first couple of things you think of?。
Shout it out.。
What's the first couple of things you think about?。
Trees, lots of trees.。
They especially grow in the winter, right?。
What other things do you think about?。
Huh?。
Heat?。
Food.。
Yeah.。
Party parties.。
Yeah.。
What else?。
Come on, shout it out.。
Beach.。
The beach in Australia.。
Yes.。
Okay.。
Yeah.。
Paul is definitely thinking about the beach in Australia.。
Definitely a different side of the world.。
Presents.。
Yes.。
Presents.。
And a lot of the different pictures we get about Christmas come from this image that。
we have, right?。
And it could come from our Hallmark cards, right?。
We see Mary in her beautifully styled hair.。
She just came from Cathy's salon.。
She just got a nice hair straightening.。
She's in her beautiful dress and baby Jesus is perfectly washed in his white crib.。
Joseph is perfectly styled hair in his perfect robe.。
And then these beautiful kings come with all their presents and gold.。
That's the sort of picture we might get of Christmas.。
It's a perfect picture.。
Christmas is perfect.。
It's beautiful.。
But is that the reality?。
Is that really Christmas?。
And today we're going to look at a specific person and her name is Mary.。
There's something about Mary.。
And the first thing we're going to look at, the first point is from unknown to favored.。
From unknown to favored.。
The angel Gabriel appears to her.。
Now it's been over 400 years since an angel or God has directly spoken to the people of。
Israel.。
And when does Gabriel usually come out?。
Who is Gabriel?。
Well, Gabriel is one of the head angels, right?。
With Michael and Gabriel, there was Lucifer a bit.。
He went a little, you know.。
Gabriel, do you know when he usually comes out?。
He comes out in dealings with messianic things.。
So with Daniel, he appeared to Daniel and told him about the prophecies that were to。
come.。
And now he appears, firstly in the chapter earlier, to Elizabeth, talking about John,。
how he is going to come and be born and prepare the way for Jesus.。
And now he appears to Mary.。
And who is Mary?。
What do we know about her?。
Well, we read six months, in the sixth month, angel Gabriel was sent from God to the city。
of Galilee, named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph.。
And so Mary, her Hebrew name was probably Miriam, was a very popular name back then,。
and she's from Nazareth.。
Now back then, Nazareth was just a very small town, maybe just like 50 to 100 people, maybe。
like a very small town in the territories.。
Has anybody heard of Mthongchoi?。
Mthongchoi, has anybody heard of that?。
It's a small town in the territories.。
And I know it, actually Kathy's been to it as well, because a couple of us went to visit。
the waterfalls there.。
It's a small little village.。
Actually, it's a hidden secret in Hong Kong.。
There's like seven waterfalls there.。
Vincent should go.。
Nazareth, it's in the middle of nowhere.。
It's a small little town.。
There's a picture of it on the next slide, right?。
In Nazareth, it's just a couple of houses, a couple of 50 to 100 people.。
And what was Mary's job?。
She was just a peasant girl, taking care of the farm, taking care of the livestock, nothing。
significant.。
What did we know about her?。
Well, she was a virgin.。
And we also know that she was betrothed or pledged to be married, pledged to be married.。
And we know that in Jewish customs back then, they usually married the girls off when they。
reached maturity.。
And so we can sort of calculate, oh, maybe she's in her early teens, right?。
Could be 13 or 14 years old.。
Anybody 13 or 14 here?。
I see some of my tightest kids are 13 or 14 and they're here.。
It could have been a teenage girl.。
It's not what we think about.。
Oh, Mary, she's middle-aged, mature, very ready for this task.。
No, it's a virgin girl, 14, working the farm.。
Just in the middle of nowhere, working the farm.。
And the Lord appeared to her through an angel.。
And let's see her response in verse 20.。
She was greatly troubled and said, at the saying, and tried to discern what kind of。
greeting this might be.。
And the angel said to her, do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.。
You have found favor with God.。
From an unknown girl in this middle of nowhere town with a small population, a peasant girl,。
from unknown to favored.。
And she was greatly troubled at this greeting.。
She was greatly troubled.。
And at the end, we can continue to see that she goes from fear to faithful.。
She goes from fear to faithful.。
Let's continue reading verse 34.。
And Mary said to the angel, how will this be?。
Since I am a virgin, how could I be afraid?。
Since I am a virgin, how could I have a child who is going to be the Messiah?。
How could this be?。
Since I'm a virgin?。
And the angel answered her, the Holy Spirit will come to you, come upon you, and the power。
of the Most High will overshadow you.。
Let's continue to the next slide.。
For nothing will be impossible with God.。
And Mary said, behold, I am the servant of the Lord.。
Let it be according to your word.。
And the angel departed from her.。
The second thing we see about Mary is that she goes from fear.。
What's going on?。
What's this greeting?。
Why am I most favored?。
How am I blessed amongst women?。
What is this greeting to a faithful girl, obedient servant of the Lord?。
Now back then, the Jews were subjugated under Roman authority.。
Servants were hired, right?。
They were allowed to work and they were paid.。
They had limited rights.。
Jews were known to be owned by their slave owners.。
They had no rights and they were considered property.。
Women back then were only basically housewives, mothers, and wives.。
In Jewish society, it was a patriarchal society, men were at the top, women had no legal rights。
either, and women were owned by their father and their husband.。
And so what Mary is saying here, I am the servant of the Lord.。
She's saying I am willing to serve the Lord, give up my rights, fully obey, fully follow。
the Lord.。
She doesn't understand how this might all be possible, but she is saying I'm willing。
to follow the Lord.。
She goes from fear to faithful.。
She goes from fear to faithful.。
The third thing we see is that she goes from virgin to mother.。
And how can this be, right?。
She said the angel of the Lord said to her, the Holy Spirit will come upon you and the。
power of the Most High will overtake you.。
Can you imagine being a 14, maybe 14, 13 year old girl and receiving this message and then。
all of a sudden you are going to be a mother, mother not just of any ordinary child, a mother。
of the Most High.。
Would there be some pressure?。
Was there any pressure when you were about to become mothers, mothers that are here?。
Was there any pressure?。
Or you were like, yeah, let's go, bring it on.。
Auntie Jackie is like, not just one, bring on two.。
Where is the second one?。
No pressure at all, no worries.。
There must have been some pressure that was there.。
And yet we know that back then, Jewish society, they understood scripture.。
They understood that the Messiah was to come.。
And this verse must have been on Mary's mind when the angel told her this.。
Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14, therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign.。
The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son and will call him Emmanuel.。
That must have been on her mind.。
I did some research and it said that Jewish girls back then knew of this verse.。
What a privilege it would be to be the mother of the Messiah.。
Now back then, the Jewish custom was arranged marriages.。
There was an engagement.。
The fathers would say, hey, yeah, this girl, she's becoming mature.。
Let's strike a deal.。
James, you got a nice son coming up.。
Let's strike a deal.。
Pastor James agrees.。
And they have an engagement, a formal agreement.。
Yes, your son will marry my daughter.。
And then there's some sort of meeting.。
It's called a betrothal or pledge.。
It's some sort of formal meeting where they say, yes, in a year's time,。
we will have a wedding and we will get married.。
And so which stage was Mary at?。
You guys remember?。
Was it the first one?。
No, it wasn't.。
The arrangement was already made.。
They were pledged to be married already.。
So you think about it.。
You've been pledged to a man.。
His name is Joseph.。
What does he do?。
He's a carpenter.。
He's a carpenter or a stone cutter or a wood maker or something like that,。
whatever they worked with back then.。
And you are going to be pregnant.。
What is Joseph going to think?。
Auntie Jackie, what is Paul going to think?。
Hallelujah.。
It's a little bit awkward.。
It would be awkward to explain to your parents.。
It would be awkward to explain to your fiance.。
And if we read-- let's read in Deuteronomy.。
Let's read this together.。
One, two, three.。
"If a man happens to meet in a town a virgin pledged to be married。
and he sleeps with her, you shall take both of them to the gate of that town。
and stone them to death."。
What is the cost of adultery or premarital sex?。
Death.。
It's not being stoned like high stoned, all right?。
It's being literally stoned to death.。
Not a pleasant thing.。
And so there was considerable risk of this teenage girl.。
How do I speak to my parents?。
How do I speak to my fiance that I am pregnant。
and that I am pregnant with the most high?。
She must have had real faith in God, in his message.。
And once she accepts that this is what the Lord has given her,。
the task to be pregnant with baby Jesus, she goes from silence to praise.。
From silence to praise.。
So six months earlier or a couple months earlier,。
the angel also appeared to Zachariah.。
And that was another promise that John the Baptist would come and prepare。
the way for a baby Jesus.。
And Elizabeth and Zachariah, they were very old.。
They were around 80 years old.。
And God gave them a baby at an old age.。
And so Mary takes a trip and goes to Elizabeth.。
Elizabeth is in Jerusalem.。
She's in Nazareth.。
So it's not a short trip back then.。
And what happens is that when they meet, John erupts.。
The Holy Spirit convicts Elizabeth.。
And the baby John in her belly.。
And there's sparks all over.。
And Mary sings this song.。
Let's just read the first two slides together.。
Or let's read it together.。
Let's read her song together, OK?。
One, two, three.。
And Mary said, my soul--。
let's read again.。
One, two, three.。
And Mary said, my soul magnifies the Lord.。
And my spirit rejoices in God my Savior.。
For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant.。
For behold, from now on, all generations will call me blessed.。
For he who is mighty has done great things for me.。
And holy is his name.。
And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation.。
Let's skip a slide and read the last one.。
He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy。
as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his offspring forever.。
And Mary remained in her three months and returned to her home.。
So she visits Elizabeth, who understands her because she was also given a promise.。
And Mary is excited.。
Elizabeth excited.。
The babies are excited.。
And she breaks out into song.。
It's like a Disney movie, right?。
Like, it's just a Disney--。
yeah, musical.。
And I'm not going to sing it for you.。
I know Mo likes to sing and rap.。
I won't rap it either.。
But let's look at this song that she sings.。
What do we see in this song?。
We see that it is very scriptural, very scriptural.。
Can you imagine, like, our tightest 14-year-old kids coming out。
and singing these songs, these type of songs?。
It would be amazing, very amazing.。
We see a lot of Old Testament scripture.。
Firstly, in verse 46, she says, "My soul magnifies the Lord."。
It's very similar to Psalm 34, verse 6.。
"O, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together."。
In verse 47, it says, "And my spirit rejoices in God my Savior."。
In Isaiah 45, it says, "There is no God apart from me, a righteous God and a Savior."。
In verse 48, "For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant."。
It's very similar to what Hannah said in 1 Samuel.。
She made a vow saying, "O Lord, if you would only look on your servant's misery。
and remember me, and not forget your servant, but give her a son."。
There's, if you look closely, there's around 15 different scriptural references.。
And what does that tell you about Mary?。
That she must have really paid attention in Titus Fellowship,。
when Pastor Johnny was talking about the Old Testament.。
We see Psalms, we see the Prophet Isaiah book being read out,。
we see Samuel being read out.。
She must have really understood the Bible or the Old Testament back then.。
She was scriptural.。
She was worshipping the Lord out of the joy that comes from her heart.。
And what comes out of her heart?。
Scripture, the Bible, the Old Testament, the laws, the Psalms.。
Beautiful.。
Beautiful.。
And lastly, we see she goes from deliverer to delivered.。
Deliverer to delivered.。
Now, there's many misconceptions or misunderstandings about Mary.。
There's a couple I would like to mention tonight.。
And some Catholics and some Orthodox sections of Christianity。
believe these things about Mary.。
And I would like to explain them to you.。
The first thing is the Immaculate Conception.。
Immaculate Conception.。
And this says that Mary is without sin.。
Mary conceived Jesus and Jesus had a perfect birth with a perfect mother.。
And that she is without sin.。
She has no original sin.。
And she lived a sinless life.。
That's the first sort of misunderstanding we have of Mary,。
or people had of Mary.。
Now, the Bible says, "For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God."。
It doesn't say, "For all have sinned except Mary."。
It doesn't say that.。
The second thing that people have a misunderstanding of is perpetual virginity.。
So she remained a virgin the rest of her life.。
Let's read Mark 6 3 together.。
One, two, three.。
"Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary and the brother of James and Joseph and Judah and Simon?。
And are not his sisters here with us?"。
And they took offense at him.。
Jesus had brothers and sisters according to the Gospels.。
And so Mary probably was not a virgin for the rest of her life.。
Okay.。
The next misunderstanding we have of Mary is bodily assumption.。
Bodily assumption says that she never died.。
She was raised.。
Who were the two people that were raised to heaven that did not die in the Bible?。
You guys, Elijah and Enoch.。
Apparently, some people think there's a third and it is Mary.。
And that is also a misunderstanding.。
And the last one that is also the most disturbing one is that he is a co-mediator with Christ.。
She is a co-mediator with Christ.。
And what that means is that not only did Jesus die on the Christ and he is the high priest。
and sacrifice for our sins.。
As you see in the next picture, Mary is also on there.。
She is dying with Jesus on the cross and she also takes part in this sacrifice.。
And obviously, we do not believe this.。
We believe that Mary was just like any human person.。
We believe she wasn't sinless.。
She was learning about God.。
She was learning to be a parent just like us.。
She was not sinless.。
She did not die with Christ on the cross for our sins.。
It is only Jesus because Jesus is God, the second person of the Trinity.。
It was the Holy Spirit that overshadowed and empowered her so that she would conceive,。
not the power of Mary.。
It was the power of the Holy Spirit working, overshadowing her.。
Jesus Christ died for our sins once and for all time.。
He alone can save us because he is fully man and fully God.。
Let's read this part of her song once again.。
And Mary said, "My soul magnifies the Lord and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior,。
for he has looked on my humble estate, on the humble estate of his servant."。
Who needs a Savior?。
Who needs a Savior?。
We all do.。
Because we have sin.。
We can't save ourselves.。
No matter how hard we try, no matter how hard we go and try to fix the things that are wrong。
with us, we still have sin.。
And Mary said this.。
Mary said, "In God, my Savior."。
She also needed a Savior.。
The lyrics of "Mary, Did You Know" say this.。
Did you know that your baby boy has come to make you new?。
This child that you delivered will soon deliver you.。
This child that you delivered will soon deliver you.。
Amazing, amazing song.。
We see Mary from unknown to favored by God.。
And favored by God, it doesn't mean, oh, you're gonna have a beautiful house on the peak。
and 10 cars and four children and send them all to abroad。
and they're gonna all live happily ever after.。
It doesn't mean that.。
'Cause we see Mary, she had some of the best, best times.。
She experienced the birth of Christ.。
Did she also experience some of the hardest times?。
Seeing her son beaten, scorned, humiliated, nailed to a cross.。
It's a very hard thing to see your child being favored.。
It means obeying the Lord in where He has called you.。
We see that Mary was favored.。
She was faithful to what God has called her to.。
She wasn't, as we see in the next couple of chapters, you know, she lost Jesus for a couple。
of days.。
She was also learning how to be a parent to a perfect child.。
She was learning.。
She was teachable.。
She was faithful.。
An incredible woman, incredible little girl who obeyed the Lord, who did what the Lord。
asked and was faithful to her task.。
And as the band comes up, I want to invite us to think about what has the Lord called。
us to?。
What has the Lord called us to?。
Are we faithful to what the Lord has called us to?。
The Lord asked Mary to conceive the Savior of the world, the Messiah in her womb.。
And the Lord also asks of us that we have the Messiah inside of us and we should share。
His light and His love to the world.。
Are we willing?。
What has God called you to?。
Are you willing to be faithful, obedient, to be favored and blessed by the Lord?。
Let us pray.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for the story of Mary, a beautiful, innocent girl, unknown。
but favored by the Lord.。
She was fearful at first at the message, but she stood in courage and in faithfulness to。
her calling.。
She went from silence to praise, praising you with the scripture that filled her heart.。
She went from virgin to the mother of the Most High.。
What an honor it was for her.。
We thank you for who Mary is.。
We thank you for her example of obedience, of faithfulness.。
We ask that Lord you would give us the courage to do the same.。
Bless us Lord this Christmas to spread your love and your light to those around us.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
