(silence)。
Actually, I just want to say thank you guys。
for having me here tonight,。
because it's such an honor to actually stand here。
and share with you guys.。
It's not my comfort zone,。
but I know God's standing here by His Holy Spirit,。
and He's prepared me to share a word in season for you.。
So I just want to pray over us at the moment,。
just to, Father, you just prepare our hearts。
just for the word that you have。
for everyone in this room tonight。
about your unconditional love。
that is beyond our understanding.。
It's supernatural, and it is amazing.。
We thank you again in Jesus' name.。
There should be a picture coming up.。
So if you can't see it,。
this was John's birthday in April,。
and we had a family brunch.。
There's one person missing,。
which is another mom in our family,。
and that was Sam, our eldest daughter-in-law,。
who was born in Hong Kong,。
but she had another engagement.。
But this is basically the Snell Groves.。
So we came with four, so we have two sons,。
and now we have 11 of us in Hong Kong.。
So Snell Groves around Hong Kong, you notice them.。
So actually, if you look up there,。
I don't know how many generations you can basically see.。
There's three.。
So there's three generations there。
with the love of a family running right the way through,。
through a father and a mother, which is us,。
and we've become grandparents。
to these wonderful grandkids here,。
who range from the age of eight to 16.。
So yes, we've got a whole 'nother generation ahead of us。
coming up and running.。
The love of the family.。
We've had our ups and downs,。
but you know, in the middle of all this,。
there's so many stories I can tell you,。
but I'll tell you them another day.。
And during through all this time,。
I know that my heavenly father was with me unconditionally。
as we walked through bringing up these two boys,。
and then the families that we're so proud of,。
and we're proud of our boys and their wives.。
The love is unconditional,。
and it's an unconditional love of the mother.。
And I can tell you now that these boys。
will always be on my heart.。
You know, the saying is that it's always a mother。
that holds the hand of a child,。
but the hand is only for a while.。
The heart is forever.。
So they're always in my heart as little boys,。
as probably like you are with your parents.。
And through this,。
God gives us a picture of God's love for us.。
Isaiah 66, 13, which should be on the screen, yeah.。
It's a mother comforts a child,。
so I will comfort you and you will be comforted.。
I have a great dad.。
And my mom died, passed away 28 years ago,。
and I'm only child.。
So my dad is very precious to me.。
He turned 90, sorry, 90 on Easter Sunday.。
And sometimes when I was growing up as a little girl,。
he was very, very strict.。
I have a bit of feedback coming there, go on.。
Good to get feedback, exactly.。
So with my dad, when I was a little girl,。
I can always remember him coming home。
from a really hard day at work.。
He really worked hard to keep us in a home.。
And he'd come home, he'd sit in his armchair,。
and he'd kick off his shoes.。
And as a little girl of about five or six,。
even a little bit older,。
I used to climb up on his lap and I used to sit there,。
and I'd have all these questions,。
and questions of our day together.。
And there was loads of questions.。
And as I'm asking, and he's answering,。
and he's loving this time with his daughter,。
but he was getting a little bit tired and angry.。
He'd been working from sort of 7.30 in the morning。
to 6.30 at night, standing up.。
It was just really tiring for him.。
And I could see him getting a little bit angry.。
Well, then my mum had come in the room.。
She'd get in the middle and she'd say,。
"Right, get to your room."。
And then she'd make sure that I'd stay in my room。
for another hour, to give dad a bit of peace and quiet,。
and then we'd have our tea together.。
That was like a feeling, I was okay with that.。
And just to say that my, don't get me wrong,。
but my dad actually was, he wouldn't hurt anybody.。
He wouldn't even eat a fly or anything like that.。
So, but we need to remember, like my dad,。
that human dads, they can be good, or not so good,。
but we're only human.。
And my dad obviously had to have his time of rest as well.。
So that little story was a bit like。
my mum coming in to rescue me.。
So there's a little bit of the unconditional love。
from my mum looking after me,。
but then giving dad that little time out.。
But we see that Father God has our backs。
in every part of our lives.。
We don't always see or feel that he's there, but he is.。
He knows us before our parents knew us.。
That's actually a mind-boggling thought.。
But, you know, he always is there.。
And I know that when I was a little girl, another story.。
When I was a little girl, I was about 10,。
and I didn't really know Jesus at that time.。
I heard of God, I believed if God was existed.。
I was at school with assemblies in school every morning。
and hymns and things like that.。
Well, where I lived, I went over to visit my auntie。
and on the back of her garden was this huge park area。
with a river and arches.。
And I was told never to go over there,。
never to go out alone.。
You never know who's about.。
Well, one afternoon I decided to go over there。
with my friend and explore.。
And we went down to the river。
and we went down to see the swans.。
And all of a sudden we could hear rustling in the grass.。
Now, I don't know who it was, if somebody was watching us,。
but did we run.。
I had one friend with me and we ran so fast,。
we headed for the little chapel。
that was at the end of the other side of this amazing park.。
Well, I sat in that, I can remember it now,。
I sat in that pew and I just said,。
"God, if you're there, just put your protection over me."。
And sure enough, I just believed at that moment in time,。
God sowed a seed in me,。
that the father's germinated that in my heart。
as I've been growing up.。
It's still growing, it's still forming in me,。
even from that moment.。
And I believe that it helped me to mother my children。
and it also to the Kingdom family,。
which now over the years I would never have foreseen.。
It's an amazing family that's worldwide.。
I could tell you many stories on that one too.。
But I'm not saying that all mothers have brought love。
and nurturing to their children.。
Some people say, "I don't have a problem with my dad,。
"but I do with my mum."。
(audience laughing)。
Yeah, I do hear that quite often actually.。
And whether we have difficulty opening our hearts。
to the masculine figure or a feminine figure,。
we really deep down want to enjoy that tender love。
that comforts and nurtures us.。
You know, love is a response and it is to love.。
And we only have to look at to nature.。
If we look on the screen,。
there should be the wonderful picture。
of all the little cutie things that we see.。
So we got the sheep and the lamb。
and we see the little ducklings.。
Where's mum?。
She's gone, disappeared.。
There's the chicks without the chicken,。
but then the horse with the foal.。
And basically what this picture says to me。
is that in creation,。
mums, whatever animal, whatever we see around us,。
and they have their youngsters,。
they will nurture those young ones.。
And they will feed them and they will look after them.。
And you know, I actually personally see God。
around in creation.。
So I don't just see these animals,。
I just see the smallest insect sometimes.。
Or you see the famous butterfly.。
Where does that come from?。
Of course, the caterpillar to the chrysalis。
to the butterfly.。
So there's a whole world out there that God created.。
And it was his love of setting it in motion from day one.。
So looking at these guys here,。
I'm sure that they only have that little time together。
and then they become adults.。
And I think that's what we see with a lot of animals.。
But for us as humans, our children are with us.。
And as I said, they're in our heart all the time,。
even though not physically with us.。
But I don't know if you see love around you.。
I definitely do.。
I definitely see it in lots of ways.。
And as a grandma, you look at your grandkids,。
but then you also look at other children when they're out.。
Because nurturing in my heart as a mum。
has allowed me to see children.。
You know, we've got Reuven and AJ down here。
and I've watched them grow up in the last few years.。
When they were little, now they're bigger.。
But I see them interacting with their parents.。
And I see that and I just thought,。
hmm, they're gonna grow up too quick.。
Really take the moment with them。
because every moment will never come again.。
So mums, new mums, nurture those babies.。
You might have to go nights of crying and whatever。
and feeding, but you know what?。
You'll never get it again.。
Not with that child, anyway.。
And it's important as we celebrate Mother's Day.。
I say, listen to this.。
We refer to God as father and we pray to our father.。
But did we know that God the father。
displays not only a masculine quality,。
but we see him to be having a nurturing heart.。
Or as a mother as well,。
is from the side of God's personality。
that enables us as a mother to be able。
to offer unconditional love to our offspring,。
no matter what the situation is.。
And it's always there.。
And as a mother,。
the whole is whole enough within herself.。
She's the one who teaches her children。
how to both love and be loved.。
As a human being, we have to be taught everything.。
Do you remember when you, maybe you don't remember,。
your parents definitely remember,。
how you learnt to walk?。
You might've crawled and pulled yourself on the sofa。
and had the wobbly steps along。
and then one day you stepped out on your own。
and you started to walk.。
Then the first word, was it mama or dada?。
Who knows?。
That you start to learn to talk.。
And then don't forget, you're not just fed on milk.。
You get old enough to have solid food.。
So you have to be fed and learn how to eat.。
So among other things, we also need to be taught。
how to love.。
So my eldest son that you saw earlier,。
who's now 46.。
When he was little, when he was probably about,。
let me see, probably about nine,。
I used to sometimes at the end of the day,。
long day, I'd put my legs up on the sofa。
and I'd sort of curl up with my legs bent.。
Well, he'd clumber over me and he'd curl up in my legs。
and he'd come up to me and he'd want that cuddle。
and he'd want that nurturing.。
And that sort of like taught me。
how to love the human being in a deeper way.。
There's another story I wanna share with you.。
As you know, we're connected with the Vine Church。
here in Hong Kong.。
And the senior pastor we've known,。
grown up for years and he got married。
and he tried for family for many, many years.。
And unfortunately, they couldn't have their own children.。
So he went for adoption and roll it forward.。
He adopted a beautiful little girl called Mia,。
but she was 16 months when they adopted her.。
And she was in mother's choice.。
Don't know, many of you may know that's an orphanage。
for unmarried moms in the beginning,。
but it's come through that the babies。
would go out for adoption.。
And it's well known around now.。
Well, Andrew had this little girl and they named her Mia.。
And I can remember him telling the story。
of when he first met her, which was amazing。
and tear jerking, I won't go into that one.。
But the first, they brought her home。
and the first few months was so, so difficult。
because this little girl had been in an orphanage.。
She'd had love, but she didn't have a love。
of a mother or father.。
She had a love of a whole group of people。
that were around her looking after her.。
But when they had taken her home,。
having had that moment where you get the official adoption。
and whatever down there, she was at home。
and it still took months and they're looking at each other。
and they're going, we really expected her to come.。
Wow, mommy, daddy.。
And that didn't really happen.。
And it took a few months and one day,。
Andrew was looking at Christine, his wife in the kitchen。
and Mia was playing around her feet.。
And all of a sudden she grabbed mommy's leg。
and she held on for dear life.。
And that was her saying, I feel loved and accepted。
and you're now gonna be my new mom.。
Well, that little girl now has grown up.。
She's in high school and she is amazingly loved by them.。
And obviously the father's plan all along。
was for them to adopt that child.。
So she was a special, special gift.。
So from those stories,。
it shows that God is loving us unconditionally。
no matter who we are, where we're at.。
And I'm not just talking about mothers in this one。
or indeed females here.。
You know, you men have been given feminine nature as well。
as a masculine nature.。
This is nothing to do with sexuality,。
but father put within men and women a tender longing。
and a tender heart of himself.。
It's important to recognise that men have the ability。
within themselves to express tender longings。
that come from femininity of God.。
The nurturing love, as I said before,。
is love is a response to love.。
We learn how to, as a response to being loved,。
particularly a kind of love known as storge.。
I think it's on the screen.。
It's a Greek word and the Greek words meaning。
family affection and it conveys tenderness and care.。
It builds the foundation of life.。
And now we see in Psalm 113 verse nine,。
he, God, it gives the barren woman a home,。
making her the joyous mother of children.。
Praise the Lord.。
Storge can also be shown by the wider family。
through siblings, if you have them.。
I had cousins, grandparents who doted on me。
like I was super superhero to them。
and to the wider church and that is us.。
And it's for us to be rooted and grounded in love too.。
He intended that for us.。
I'd like to explore the feminine image a little bit more.。
Woman, I believe, were made for nurture, tenderness,。
but she was made for lots more too.。
We can do many more things than just all that.。
We're strong, we can do what the guys can do.。
So, and God knows that.。
He has amazing things where he challenges us to step out.。
And he put within us a feminine,。
something that we see when a baby really responds。
to a feminine softness.。
Typically, when a father holds a baby,。
he gives the feeling of strength in his arms。
as he holds that baby.。
But also as a mother, you can receive nurture。
that will build up, not destroy,。
rather it will build you up in life.。
Feminine love will establish you to live in holiness.。
You can have a secure, a source of intimacy and belonging.。
Going back to Genesis,。
the man named his wife Eve。
because she is the mother of everyone who lives。
in Genesis 3, 20.。
Then God created mankind in his likeness.。
He created male and he created female and blessed them。
and God made them in his image.。
Then came the fall.。
Adam and Eve sinned and were driven out of the garden.。
Life as intended was broken.。
Now, a fallen masculinity and a fallen femininity。
entered into them.。
There was brokenness and they were distorted.。
But I need to tell you, you were conceived in God's heart。
long before you were conceived naturally.。
And there are wonderful miracles of healing in our lives.。
Even after the fall,。
and there is an amazing way that a mother comforts a child.。
A father,。
yeah, a father。
often comforts in different ways.。
An example there would be the famous story。
of the little kid that's out in the garden playing。
or he's out on the beach or he's running around。
and all of a sudden, mom and dad hear this,。
(screams)。
there's screaming and everything's, you know,。
everything's fallen in his life and so they run out。
and the father's the first partner to be there.。
And he bends down to the child and he pats him on the back。
and he says, "There, there, there, you'll be fine.。
"You're fine.。
"You can go out and go back to play.。
"You'll be fine.。
"No worries, you're fine."。
But what does mom do?。
The mother does something completely different.。
The mother swoops down and she scoops up the child。
in her arms and she holds them and she soothes them.。
She comforts them.。
There should be a picture up here。
of the mother nurturing the baby.。
But if we were not rooted,。
so the father loves you with a perfect love.。
If you are not rooted and established。
in this nurturing love, in the depths of holiness,。
we will always be searching for it.。
We will never be satisfied.。
We'll have a constant need for the father,。
not only expressed in the masculine,。
but expressed in the feminine.。
He not only loves you as a father,。
but he also loves you as a mother unconditionally.。
My prayer for you today,。
as that mother looks into that baby's eyes,。
is to receive unconditional love of the father。
with a mother heart and a father heart。
combined in one perfect love.。
I think as the band come up,。
I just would like to pray for you。
and pray for you to be able to be a mother。
and to pray for you.。
And I've had lots of thoughts during the day。
and I just want us to quieten our hearts down.。
And I just wanna invite the Holy Spirit just to come。
and just come into the room and come to us.。
If you're willing to receive what the father has for you,。
it's just, if you wanna place your hands out。
just in the air, it's like receiving a gift from the father。
through his Holy Spirit to you.。
Father, I just pray, Holy Spirit, come.。
I pray, Father, that we give permission for you。
just to touch our hearts and reveal your supernatural,。
unconditional love for each one in this room.。
That love that is always with us.。
It's a love that will always be with us.。
If we know you, you'll be with us.。
It's a love that will always be there。
to push us through the times of down times。
to high times to those in between.。
And he will show himself to you。
in an amazing way this weekend.。
As we celebrate the mothers that you've given to us,。
and the children that you've given those mums,。
and Father, I just pray, Father,。
this will be a special blessing.。
As we said, that little flower gift that we have,。
if we pray over that as we give it to our mums,。
that it will make such an amazing blessing on them。
through your Holy Spirit in them.。
And you know what?。
We only have to ask for your love.。
And Father, I ask for your love to fill us now.。
I pray that it will be so overwhelming。
that it will come into our hearts in an amazing way。
that we cannot explain it in the humanist.。
But you'll come into our hearts in a way。
that we know that you're real and that you're here with us.。
So Father, I pray that you just pour your spirit。
into every son and daughter in this room.。
And those that are watching online。
and those that are tuning in later,。
just, I just pray, Father,。
that you just show yourself in a new way。
with that unconditional love。
that you so desperately wanna give to your children.。
To know that you're our mum and our dad。
and one that will never, ever let us down.。
So Father, I thank you.。
You've been in this peace in this room.。
And I pray, Father, that you will bless and protect。
everyone in this room as we go from here.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
(laughs)。
