Thank you, John. There's going to be much more to come regarding that, and most of all。
just honouring John and Sandra. Now is not necessarily the day to do it because they're。
still going to be together for a little while yet. You know, John just said he thought he'd。
be here doing this for two to three years and then he'd be gone. And I was like, you。
know, I've been in Hong Kong for four years and I thought I'd be here in Hong Kong for。
two to three years. But the truth is there will be change. And I was praying to the Lord。
about this. I was like, Lord, is this something that you want Christina and I to do? Because。
we don't really need to do this. But if it's you, we will do it. And if it's not you, then。
we definitely won't. And then as I was praying, I really felt the Lord just going, well, James,。
if you take this group of people, people whom you love, and it's a group of, I don't know,。
60, 70, how would you feel if you grew that group to 30 people? Or 300 people? Or 10 people?。
Would it matter to you? And I had to get down on my knees and say, Lord, I don't know. I。
don't know. In fact, I don't know what I'm doing. John's been in ministry as long as。
I've been alive. Literally, that's true. You came to Hong Kong in '86, right? '87? I was。
born in '86. And so there are so many things that I don't know. And I keep saying this,。
James, people keep asking me as I'm leading young life, people keep asking, James, what。
are you going to do about this? What are we going to do here? And I was like, you know。
what? I have, quite frankly, I hope this doesn't worry you, but quite frankly, I do not know。
what I'm doing. But at the very same time, I know exactly what I'm doing. Because I want。
to keep to the simplest, purest form of what church is. And may the Lord have mercy on。
us as we go about that. It isn't about building church. It isn't about getting to a church。
of a different size. Another pastor friend asked me that exact same thing. Would you。
be happy if you took a church of 100 and you grew it to 30 people, but those 30 people。
loved the Lord? And then when you walked into the room, you felt life and you felt the Holy。
Spirit just moving in there. Would you be happy with that? Or would you want just a。
bigger and bigger and bigger group? And my answer is, all I want is not to build the。
church. That's not what Jesus asked us to do. Jesus asked us to make disciples. And。
so my prayer is that we would be able to do that. Whatever number the Lord gives us. And。
that might change in the form of, well, how do we get the young families in? English speaking。
families, their kids usually sleep a little bit earlier, not like the Hong Kong ones.。
Actually I was in Central Landmark last night for a dinner because my wife and kids are。
not around. So I'm going out and partying till 10 and I'm like, I'm so tired, I'm done。
guys. And then I'm walking to the MTR and I'm seeing these Hong Kong kids and these。
babies just wandering around. English speaking families don't do that. English speaking families,。
we eat at six, bedtime stories at seven and you're in bed by eight. Which means, if we're。
going to do an English speaking church and we want to serve from the womb to the tomb,。
we have to change some things. We don't know what they are right now and I'm not here to。
announce anything. But I want you to pray for us, pray with us. And if you receive anything。
from the Lord, ask and tell us. But I would say that in these next few months, that's。
what we're doing as a leadership team. We're going to get on our knees and we're going。
to seek the Lord, we're going to ask the Lord. We're not here to build a church, we're not。
here to build a church. You said you will build your church, we just need to make disciples.。
And you show us what you want us to do. Because the only thing that I really want is for a。
group of people, a gathering of people who are so devoted to the heart of Jesus. Devoted。
to what He cares about, what He wants us to be and that is all and nothing else. And we've。
just started a series and this is a nice little segue into what the series that you've been。
doing is, which is looking at the heart of Christ. And Pastor Johnny last week talked。
about a heart that touches. And it's my pleasure as we carry on that service to really talk。
a little bit more about that. A different side of Jesus. Because if we're to be a church,。
we're not just here to attend a service. That's definitely what I don't want. But how can。
we be a church, a people, a body that pursue His heart? Would you pray with me as we open。
up the word?。
Lord, we thank you. And once again, we thank you. We thank you for John, we thank you for。
Mary, thank you for their faithfulness, for their wisdom, for their leadership, but most。
importantly for their heart, for their love for you and for their love for people. But。
as we take this next step together into this new season, there is only one thing we ask.。
There's only one thing that we'll seek after. That we would dwell in your house all the。
days of our lives. We will gaze upon your beauty and inquire in your temple and we'll。
pursue your heart. And as we open up the word now, would you speak to us? Would your Holy。
Spirit move our hearts towards you? As we find out more about your heart, would you。
make our hearts more like yours? In Jesus' name, amen.。
Hey, so I haven't been here for a while. I realize I haven't done this. I've come back。
and Pastor Johnny's shaved his head and he's bald now. John's had short hair. I'm like,。
"George, you and I have started a revolution." I didn't realize I was such an inspiration。
to that many people. Well done, Johnny. It's pretty cold. It's pretty nice and breezy in。
the summer though, isn't it? Don't hide it. Be bold and courageous. Yes. Yes. Welcome。
to the club. You know what? I prefer that look to the kind of that long, greasy, dirty,。
homeless look you had. Yeah, you remember that one? The greasy, homeless look. That。
was not so cool. Oh, man. Welcome, Johnny, to the club. Never leave. Never leave. I can't.。
Oh, dear. Jesus had this heart to touch people and to。
really move, to go to those in need. When he announced himself to ministry in Luke 4,。
he opens up a scroll and he reads in the synagogue, Luke 4, and he reads from Isaiah and he says,。
"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me to reach a certain type of people." What kind of people?。
The blind, the oppressed, the captive, the broken. He's looking for those in need and。
he's saying, "I'm going to come and help you. I'm going to come beside you. You need。
saving. I'm going to come and be with you." That's his heart. His heart is to touch people,。
to look for people who desperately need some good news.。
Today, we're going to talk about a different kind of people that he's also looking for.。
He's talking to a woman at the well in John 4, a woman from Samaria, and he's confronting。
her. He's saying, "Hey, actually, you've not been too good with your relationships.。
You've had five husbands and now the one that you're with, you're not even married yet.。
It's not looking good for you." And then she realizes that and she talks to him about something。
else. She's like, "You're right. I've been looking for something. I've been looking for。
a relationship. I've been looking for a connection. I've not had it. Do you know why you Jews。
say that we can only worship there, but we can't go there and us Samaritans can only。
worship here? Tell me what that is about. Why can't we worship with you all?" And then。
Jesus says, "You're right. There's a time that is coming where people aren't going to。
be worshipping in this place or in that place because God is spirit and people will worship。
him in spirit and in truth. And the Father is seeking those kinds of people. He's looking。
for people who would worship him. 2 Chronicles 16, 9 says, "The eyes of the Lord are just。
scouring through and to and fro the earth, looking for people whose hearts are blameless。
towards him." God is looking for these kinds of people. In Luke 7, which is the passage。
that we're going to look at today, he finds someone like that. If you look at... Don't。
envy Eunice who's at the back in the slides right now because I'm going to be flying around.。
I told her about this and she's going to try and keep up. Anson's just laughing because。
she knows how hard this is going to be for her. But good luck. Eunice, I'm going to throw。
you a bone to start with the first one. Luke 7, verse 9. There we go. You get to stay in。
church. Everyone gets to stay. He says, well, let's do the whole 9. "When Jesus heard these。
things he marveled at him and he turned into the crowd that followed him and said, 'I tell。
you, not even in Israel have I found such faith. The Father is seeking for people who。
will worship him in spirit and in truth, but not even in Israel have I found a person like。
this who had this kind of faith.'" What is this kind of faith that we're talking about?。
What is faith? When I talk to you about faith, what do you think it is? Do you think about。
George Michael and the song that he sings, "Faith"? What is it to you? Of course, in。
Scripture we see, Hebrews chapter 11, the famous chapter on faith. Faith is what? Faith。
is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things unseen. So when you have。
faith in something, you're like, you know what? I can't see it, but I believe in it。
and I put my trust in it. And 2 Corinthians 5, 7 says, "I walk by faith and not by sight."。
So I'm living in a way where I can't see what's happening in the future, but it doesn't。
matter. I'm going to take the next step because God is going to be with me. God's got my back。
and I'm going to keep taking this step and I'm going to keep walking by faith. Ephesians。
2 said it's by this faith that we're saved. Romans 8 talks about this hope, which is often。
interchanged with faith, is this hope that you can't see. You don't hope in things that。
you can see. It's like, I don't look at Paul. I always talk about Paul in my sermons. I。
don't hope, "Oh, I really hope that Paul's going to come today. He's right here, so I。
know that he's here." So that doesn't require faith and hope. Well, he's at least embodied,。
but maybe not in mind, but he's right here. But if I have faith, I'm thinking, "He's not。
here yet, but I know, I know Paul will come to church and I know Paul will come on time。
because he's a punctual man." Until he got married and then things really went downhill.。
But I have faith in things that I cannot see. The question then becomes, he says, "I can't。
even find this kind of faith in Israel, but I'm looking at this other guy, this Roman。
officer, and he has that faith." And then it made me think, "Hey, if God came to Hong。
Kong, what kind of faith would he find?" If he said he can't even find this kind of faith。
in Israel, so he's looking for this kind of faith, if he came to Hong Kong, would he find。
this kind of faith? That's the question that I had. And then it got me thinking, actually,。
what kind of things do Hong Kong people put their faith in? Have a think. I mean, preaching。
to the choir here, you guys are at church, so I'm hoping, I'm guessing, you profess to。
have put your faith in Jesus. But if you look at Hong Kong, take a step back. The city that。
God's place is in. What do people put their faith in? Real estate. Yes, absolutely. Property.。
Just a box, just a shelter, and then it's all good. To stop you from the rain that suddenly。
keeps coming every now and again. The church too. Of course, I look around and I see education.。
We put our faith in education, right? The mission organisation I'm with is Young Life,。
and all the kids, they've been forced to put their faith in education. Even parents who。
are Christians will force their kids to do well at school. I mean, of course, it's good。
to do well at school. I'm not trashing school here, but we put our faith in education. How。
do we know that? Because before a child is born, a pregnant lady will go and try and。
register their baby into education. And when they come out, at one month old, they're trying。
to read the books to them, to teach them alphabets. And when they're two years old, they're trying。
to teach them how to interview. Right? I mean, if you took my children to go for an interview。
at two years old, you'd get nothing. You'd get nothing. But parents are trying to do。
that. This is not even a joke. Why? Because we put our faith in education. Why do we put。
our faith in education? It's because if you get your kids to go to a... If you get your。
kids to go to Bremer Hill, if you get your kids to go to DBS and to St Paul's co-ed,。
or the other schools, or CIS and HKS, ah, now we're talking. Because when we get the。
kids to these schools, we know, we have faith, they'll get a good education. And what does。
a good education mean? It means they get to go to a good university, an Ivy League university,。
a university in America, or a better university in the United Kingdom. And so you go... So。
you put this through... Yeah, the really smart ones will go to the UK, right, Vincent?。
(audience laughing)。
- I didn't know you had universities.。
- Oh, people like you. We don't usually tell people like you. So then we put our faith。
in education. But you finally now, you're an adult, you're working. What do you put。
your faith in? You put your faith in work. You put everything in work. Your job. You。
need your job. Well, in Hong Kong, rent is so expensive, you need your job. So you put。
your faith in that. I'll tell you what. What do you put your faith in? I'll tell you what。
you put your faith in. When things don't go your way, and you start getting worried and。
anxious, that'll highlight to you what you actually put your faith in. When you're trying。
to get that job, or when you're worried that you're gonna lose that job. I've got a dear。
friend who's a partner at one of the big four, he's worried he's gonna lose his job. I was。
like, "Ah, that's what you put your faith in. Because you think your job's gonna be。
the thing that keeps you safe." Or it's when your relationship... "Oh, maybe if I get that。
spouse, if I get that girlfriend, if I get that boyfriend, I need to keep this friendship,。
I need to keep this relationship, I need to keep this connection, because this connection,。
Hong Kong is all about connection, kwan hai, and you get that, oh, now I'm gonna put my。
faith in these people." But when those people start not... They don't reply to you, they're。
ghosting you, or they don't like you, or you have an argument, oh, it makes you feel horrible,。
because you put your faith in them. Real estate, we have the education to get the job, to get。
the money, so we can buy a tiny, tiny, small box to live in, and now we are safe. And what's。
next? We don't know what's next. We just stay in this box. We put our faith in these things.。
And what about the church? What about missions organisations like Young Life? They put their。
faith in just people, staff, paid staff, pastors, to come and preach the word, to come and shepherd。
the flock, to make you guys all strong. But we're gonna do all the work, then we'll run。
programmes for you, and then we'll do outreach things for you, and then we'll do all these。
things, and then we'll sing songs so you can worship God, because the rest of the week,。
you've completely ignored Him. But now, we're gonna be able to sing four songs, and you'll。
be able to worship God with all you have in these next 15 minutes. We put our faith in。
these systems, so we can help each other. But then we put our faith in buildings. We。
put our faith in all these things. Is that the kind of faith that God is looking for?。
Is it the kind of faith that God is looking for? We put our faith in earthly things, in。
earthly status, in earthly merits, in earthly institutions. Jesus finds a different kind。
of faith. And I wanna unpack this a little bit. It doesn't specify and say, "Hey, this。
is what faith is." This is what faith is. It means that when you're about to lose your。
job, you're not worried, because you know God is in control. Christina and I had this。
when we were still working in England, and I was a teacher, and she was working in the。
hospital. And we felt the Lord was calling us to quit our jobs, to go into ministry.。
We'd just had Reuben, and we were like, "But where are we gonna, how are we gonna pay the。
bills? How are we gonna do anything?" And then it came to that moment, and I've told。
some of you this before. It came to that moment where I suddenly realized, "Is God calling。
us to do this?" "I believe so." "Yes." "Then will He provide for us?" "Absolutely, yes."。
"Do I believe Him? If I don't, I might as well stop the whole Christianity thing altogether."。
Does that make sense? Because if we say that we're Christians, but then we say, "Oh God,。
we trust you, we love you, we worship you, we're good." But then we completely don't。
trust Him, and we fret about every job that we have, we fret about every relationship。
that we have, we fret about every investment and every property we have, then do we really。
trust Him? Do we really have faith? I don't think we do. Jesus finds a man who has faith.。
It's not the man that you would have thought. It's not a Pharisee, it's not a Sadducee,。
not well-respected people in the synagogue, it's not pastors. He comes in and He finds。
a guy who shouldn't have this kind of faith, but he does, and He marvels at it. He's saying,。
"I have not even seen this faith in Israel. What is that kind of faith?" Now, He finds。
it in a guy called a Centurion. Centurion is a Roman officer and looks over about 100。
people or so, but some of them actually got so high that they'd look after 400 or 500。
people. So this is a guy who's been placed in a town called Capernaum. Now, this is not。
Jerusalem, this is not Manhattan. This is just a side fishing town where he gets to。
chill out and live a good life, really. There's nothing really that's going to be that crazy。
that happens there. And Jesus, after preaching His Sermon on the Mount, so you see this?。
We've got in Luke 6, we've got the Sermon on the Mount here. The other version, of course,。
is Matthew 5-7. And He preaches, and after He preaches all this incredible sermon, He。
then starts putting things to action. And He goes to Capernaum, and then He enters there,。
and now a Centurion had a servant who was sick and at the point of death who was highly。
valued by Him. So He meets this Roman officer who is in this fishing village, and He finds。
the kind of faith that He doesn't even find in the people that He first reaches. As we。
look at this faith today, I want us to see what kind of faith the Centurion actually。
had, and is there anything that we can apply to our own lives, our own walk with the Lord.。
That's what we're trying to do. Is that good? Are you with me? So, the first kind of point。
that I want to make here is this. The Centurion's faith was not in earthly status. It was not.。
It was not in earthly status. Why? You see here, verse 2, Eunice, verse 2. Now, a Centurion。
had a servant who was sick and at the point of death, and here's the key word, who was。
highly valued by Him. This was a slave. This was a Roman officer who was in charge of a。
hundred people, a man with authority, and he had a servant that was sick, nearly dying,。
and this Centurion deeply cared about this slave. What does that tell me? He has a kind。
of faith that does not rely on earthly status. Does he need to care for this slave? No, and。
yet he does. And you may think, "Oh, well, okay, well, that's not too surprising. We。
should care for the people around us." We should, but do we? Thankfully, we don't have。
slaves anymore, but we can see. I said Jesus comes to help those who are in need, those。
who are vulnerable. What about the ones here in Hong Kong? Actually, forget do we highly。
value people in society who are of a lower status to us? Do we even see them? Do we see。
those old ladies pushing the cardboard boxes in the streets? Do we see the domestic helpers。
who are following families and children, who are raising the next generation of Hong Kong?。
Who's raising them? They are. Do we even see them? There's someone who says, "Actually,。
a measure of a person's character is how they treat people who are vulnerable and can't。
fight back." But so often, we have a very different perspective. We put our faith in。
who we are and where we are in society. "Oh, I'm actually just here." And we have a tendency。
where the people that are below us, we don't even see. We see them as an inconvenience.。
When I'm walking in the street, in tight streets like Wan Chai, and I see that old lady pushing。
that car with all the cardboard boxes, I'm like, "Oh, how do I dodge you? How do I walk。
past?" One time I was sitting there waiting for a friend for a coffee, and I saw this。
lady and she sat down and she was just tired. I was like, "Oh, I want to get to know her."。
So I budged up to her and she kind of freaked out a little bit. I was like, "Hi." I just。
wanted to get to know her. I wanted to hear her story. I was like, "Oh, have you been。
doing this for a long time?" She's like, "I've been doing it for about five, six years."。
Of course, do I want to do this? No. I have to do it five, six years? Oh, okay. I was。
like, "How come?" Well, me and my husband were in business together, but then my husband。
passed away. So I have nothing else to do. I was like, "Do you have children?" "Yeah,。
I've got two kids, but they don't look after me. They're on the other side of Hong Kong.。
I barely see them." I'm talking to her and I'm like, "There's a story there. There's。
a life there." Yet so often I ignore people who don't matter to me. In fact, not even。
ignore, I don't even see them. I managed to train my consciousness to completely avoid。
the people that don't help me in any way. Yet here we have a centurion who doesn't need。
to do this, yet highly values his slave, his servant. He does not put confidence in earthly。
status at all. What stops us? What stops us from seeing people who, what we perceive are。
beneath us? Because we put our faith in ourselves. We have to just keep everything to ourselves.。
We need to get people who can help us. It's called the poverty mindset that we have. It's。
the scarcity mindset that we have. I need to look after myself first before I can do。
anything else because I need to make sure that I am okay. I was so embarrassed last。
week. This month it was my birthday. I had some really generous good friends. They gave。
us a voucher to go to the Mandarin Oriental. I was like, "Oh, that's so good. That's。
so nice." We were going to stay in a hotel there, but then hotel prices have completely。
spiked since everything is normal. We couldn't afford to go to the hotel room anymore because。
we have to pay a lot more. We went to the buffet in the Clipper Lounge. Has anyone been。
to the Clipper Lounge? I come from England where when we go for buffets, Chinese buffets,。
the English people, the white people don't really know what to eat. They go to the food。
and they grab all the pizzas and the beer and the fries and they just fill themselves。
with carbs. I'm like, "What are you doing? The teppanyaki and the sashimi is right next。
to you." But they don't do that. But in Hong Kong it's different. We went to Macau recently。
and it's a fight. It's a dog fight. The moment the lobsters come out, everyone's。
just clamoring towards the lobsters. Chinese people know what food. George is looking at。
me just saying, "You're just judging me." I'm sorry, George.。
I don't mind shellfish.。
Oh, okay. I had that experience from Macau where I was like, "Man." Then I'm at。
the Clipper Lounge for the buffet for the very first time and likely the very last time.。
It opens at six and they're like, "Okay, you can go and get your food." I see just。
all the crab and all the lobster and all the sashimi. I'm like, "Oh my gosh." I'm。
the first one in the line. I was like, "Ruben, three dishes, three plates. Let's go."。
We just grab it all, grab it all. I'm like, "Christina, don't worry. I'm going to。
grab as many for the whole family for the rest of the year. We're going to do this."。
I grab it. I take it back. I'm like, "Ruben, you stay here. You wait here. I want to put。
these back and then I'm going to come and get some more plates." Then we just have。
a whole table of crab and lobsters. I'm like, "Thankfully, we managed to get it." Can。
you imagine if I wasn't in the front of the line? It would be a disaster. We eat the。
first round and we're completely stuffed. Then I'll go back and it's all full again。
because it's the Mandarin Oriental. It's not some cheap buffet. The waiter just keeps。
refilling it constantly. I was so embarrassed because I felt like I needed to do this because。
otherwise if I miss this, this will be gone. Those other stupid Chinese people will take。
all the food. I'm going to take it all first. I sat down. I was like, "I'm so embarrassed。
because the lobsters and the sashimi are all replenished back to full 10 minutes later."。
In fact, I realised it will never lack. It will just be there. We have a scarcity mindset.。
I had a scarcity mindset in that moment. Why? Because I put my faith in what I need to do。
myself. I put my faith in what I need to accomplish.。
There's another thing about this centurion that's interesting. He doesn't only just。
look after people who he doesn't really need to look after. He looks after people who are。
across political lines too. You see in verse 5, he says this. Actually, no. What actually。
happens is he hears about Jesus. He has a servant that needs to be healed. He sends。
his Jewish friends who are some of the leaders of the Jewish community. He sends them to。
Jesus and says, "Hey, can you tell this Jesus guy to come and help my slave?" This is what。
happens. The Jewish guys actually go to Jesus and say, "Hey," verse 4 to 5. He says,。
we'll start with verse 4. "When they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly。
saying, 'He is worthy to have you do this for him, for he loves our nation and he is。
the one who built us our synagogue.'" Are you kidding me? This Roman officer sends。
these Jewish guys to go and intercede for him to Jesus and then these Jewish guys are。
like, "Hey, this guy, he's a good guy. He loves us. He loves our people." To the point。
where he's generous and he built our synagogue. This Roman officer in charge of a hundred。
soldiers controlling and oppressing this Jewish people loves the Jewish people.。
To the point where he's like, "I'll give you the money and the resources to help you build。
the synagogue because I believe that you're onto something bigger than what I can see."。
He does not put his faith in earthly status. He does not put his faith in his own power.。
He's still occupying the Jews and yet he helps them. That's number one. He doesn't put his。
faith in that. Number two, he doesn't put his faith in earthly merit, in what he can。
do. It's fascinating. Verse four, the Jews are like, "He is worthy. Hey, he deserves。
this. He's a good guy. He helped us build our synagogue. Hey, I'll tell you Jesus, you're。
coming into our town. There's going to be a nice shiny synagogue. If it wasn't for this。
guy, there would be no synagogue. He deserves it. He's done a lot of stuff for us. Now you。
do some stuff for him." Verse six, what does he say? He sends these Jewish guys to talk。
to Jesus first and then afterwards, "For he loves our nation and he is the one who built。
us our synagogue." Verse six, "And Jesus went with them." So Jesus is like, "Okay, you say。
he deserves it. You say he's worthy. He's like, "I'll follow you." "And Jesus went with。
them. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends saying to him,。
'Lord, do not trouble yourself for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof.'"。
So his friends say he is worthy and he changes his mind and says, "I am not worthy. Actually,。
stop. I know you're on your way now. I'm freaking out. I've changed my mind. Actually, I do。
not deserve for you to be under my house, under my roof." He does not put his faith。
in earthly merit at all. He doesn't care what other people think about him. Other people。
are saying, "Hey, dude, you are worthy. You are good. You've done so much for us. Let。
us help you out with your slave. It's a little bit weird that you care for that guy, but。
it's okay. We're going to help you out here because you deserve our attention." He's like,。
"You know what? I don't. I do not. I am not worthy. You are worthy. I am not worthy."。
He doesn't put his faith in himself. He does not put his faith in his own CV. Isn't that。
interesting? Where so much of what we do here in this city is stacking our own CVs, putting。
our faith in ourselves, making sure that we can do it. Here's the point. We can't. I was。
talking to a friend yesterday who is in the real estate, and his family is one of the。
ones who builds all these buildings. He's like, "You know what? I just don't know if。
I can do it. I just don't know if I'm ... I feel like an imposter. I'm not worthy of this。
kind of stuff." I was like, "You are exactly right. You're not worthy at all." He's like,。
"But Pastor James." I'm like, "That's the point because you think you are supposed to。
be worthy. You think you're supposed to work your way to get into the good books, but you。
will never get into the good books by your own way." Isn't that what we think? Isn't。
that what we put our faith in, our own earthly merit? Imagine Jesus walks through the door。
right here. It's a reckoning because we know he's Jesus. We know he's here and he's going。
to be ticking off these names and going, "Okay, who's good? Who's worthy?" That moment, just。
have a think now. Are you unworthy or are you worthy? Why? I'm like, "Oh, well, if Jesus。
is coming in right now, well, first of all, I'm glad that I'm here rather than not in。
church. I was tempted not to come today because of the rain, but thankfully I'm here. Oh,。
I guess I've ... Yeah, my attendance has been pretty good, a solid 75% in church. Sometimes。
I do welcome. Sometimes I'm an ambassador. Sometimes I stay awake in service. Sometimes。
I lead worship team. I'm pretty good." How many of us would be standing or sitting if。
Jesus walks through the door? I don't know about you, but I would be face flat on the。
floor because the glory of the Lord is something else. The Bible says the glory of the Lord,。
the holiness of God. This is to a point where if we actually saw him, we could die. That's。
what he said to Moses. It's that intense. There's no way that we could sit here and。
just go, "Yeah, I'm a pretty good person." That doesn't happen. The apostle Paul says。
this in Romans 3. He says, "There's no distinction. There's no difference between George and I,。
even though our hairstyles are the same. There's no difference between good people and bad。
people. You're all bad. We all fall short of the glory of God." The centurion got that。
because he had every right to think, "Hey, I've got Jesus coming into my house. Come,。
Jesus. I'm a kind man. I want you to help my slave. Come, pour you some tea. We'll have。
a nice meal because I am worthy." No, he's like, "Don't come anywhere near me because。
I am not worthy." He doesn't put his faith in his earthly merits in the things that he。
does himself. That's the nature of the gospel. The moment we start thinking, "Oh, we can。
work there. We can get to a place where we deserve it. We can get to a place where we。
are worthy." That's when we've missed the point. That's the kind of faith that Jesus。
marvelled at.。
Finally, so, he doesn't put his faith in earthly status or connections. He doesn't put his。
faith in earthly merit. He also doesn't put his faith in earthly authority. It's interesting。
here what happens. He goes to Jesus. We'll do verse six again. "Lord, do not trouble。
yourself for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof. So stop. Don't come anymore.。
Therefore I did not presume to come to you. But say the word and let my servant be healed."。
Say the word. I don't need you to come anywhere near me because I'm not worthy. I'm just not。
ready for you. But you say the word and let my servant be healed. "For I too am a man。
set under authority with soldiers under me. And I say to one, 'Go,' and he goes. And to。
another, 'Come,' and he comes. And to my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it."。
He doesn't put his faith in earthly authority, but he knows that Jesus has a different kind。
of authority. Notice he doesn't say, "I too am a man with authority." He's not saying,。
"Jesus, I know you're a big boss in your world. I get it. I am too. Game, recognize game.。
But I know that you can do stuff that I can't quite do. But I'm going to need your help。
a little bit now. And just can you just say the word?" It's not that. He doesn't say,。
"I too am a man with all the authority that you have." He says, "I too am under authority."。
What does he mean? He means actually as a centurion, he's in charge of this town. He's。
in charge of these guys, but he also is under authority ultimately to Rome. The only reason。
he has this power and authority here is why? Because of Rome. Do you get that? So this。
is the reason why these people obey him. "I too am a man under authority. And so when。
I say to these, 'Do something,' they don't do it just because I'm who I am, not just。
because I'm a nice guy, but because they know the power and authority behind me." And he's。
saying to Jesus, "Hey, I get that. I get that because people listen to me because of。
my relationship with him. And I know you have authority. I know that you only need to say。
the word because you have a relationship with someone else that is beyond this world. I've。
heard it. I know about it. And because of that, I know that you don't even need to come.。
I would quite like to meet you, but I'm not ready for you yet. But say the word and help。
my servant." He doesn't put his faith in earthy authority at all. He realizes that Jesus has。
something else. In John 12, Jesus says this. Oh, I didn't put it down. Sorry. Don't worry,。
this isn't there. But I do need to read it because I haven't. John 12, 44. Jesus cries。
out and said, "Whoever believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever。
sees me, sees him who sent me." He says, "Hey, if you believe in me, it's because you believe。
the Father in heaven who sent me to come and save you." So when we trust in Jesus, it's。
like actually because we know who sent him, where he comes from, it's an authority that。
isn't of this world. The centurion got that. And yet so often we put our faith in the people。
around us, in the things that we do, in our CV, and in the authorities that we have here。
on this world. The centurion puts his faith in a completely different authority. I ask。
you again as I finish, where do you put your faith? It's an honest question, it's a simple。
question that requires a really simple and honest answer. Do you put your faith in yourself?。
Do you put your faith in your works? Do you put your faith in your church? Do you put。
your faith in the government? Do you put your faith in the economy? What do you put your。
trust and faith in? It's really interesting, when you're growing up, when you're young,。
you kind of just, you can take on everything. You live as though you're never going to die,。
because you can do everything. And then as you get older, and I've shared this before,。
it's, you know, the times that I've been in hospital where things have been completely。
out of my control, things when I lose loved ones, that you have no power to help them。
at all, it's in those moments, it's in those moments of fragility that you truly feel your。
humanity, where you're like, man, I put my faith in the wrong thing. In fact, this thing。
is never going to last, this body is never going to last, this hair is never going to。
stay. I put my faith in the wrong thing. It's when things don't go the way that we want。
to, that exposes what we truly put our faith in. And so this guy I'm talking to, who's。
in the one of the big four, he's like, oh, I don't know, I might lose this job, but I've。
got this other job that I might be able to get. I was like, it really doesn't matter。
which job it is, whether it's this one, whether it's that one, whether it's no job. Where。
do you put your faith? Because I tell you this, if God isn't real, then yeah, you need。
to work your butt off, you need to do everything you can, you need to scrounge the people,。
you need to clean whichever shoes you need to clean, because whichever part you need。
to clean to get the jobs that you need, because you can only trust in yourself, you can only。
trust in your relationships, you can only trust in that if God is not real. But, but,。
if God is real, then there's a high authority that you can trust in. Then you don't need。
to worry. When you have your interview, you've done your best, you don't have to worry, oh,。
am I going to get this job or not, am I going to be able to get this? You don't have to。
worry, because God is real. Does that make sense? It sounds so simple, I know. If God。
isn't real, then yes, worry and do all these things and put your faith in these things,。
but if God is real, it changes everything. It changes the way you deal with everything,。
even sickness, even losing loved ones, everything. Because why? Because you know that he is in。
complete control. Do we have that kind of faith? That's the faith that we need to have,。
that's the faith that saves. Why? Why are we able to have that kind of faith? Because。
Jesus, because Jesus didn't care about his status. And he came and laid his life down。
for us. In Philippians 2, we see this. Paul lays down the template for how we're to live。
in harmony. He says, "Do nothing out of selfish ambition or conceit." Each of you look not。
only to your own interests, but to the interests of others. Don't put your faith in your own。
things and how you're going to get things. Look after other people. You are free to look。
after other people. James, you are free to go to the clipper lounge and hand out all。
the crabs and the lobsters to all the other tables first. Do that first, because my banquet。
is never-ending. Don't put your faith in yourself and how many plates you can carry to the table.。
If God is real, if God is real, we don't need to do that. And I think most of us are here。
because we know that God is real. But our actions tell us otherwise. Our thoughts tell。
us otherwise. Because as soon as we leave here, we're worrying about our job. We're。
worrying about our friendships. We're worrying about the relationships. Because we've kind。
of just lost, we've forgotten that if God is real, that he provides, that he is good,。
that we don't need to worry about these things. Because Jesus, he didn't account his status。
anything. He didn't count equality with God, a thing to be grasped. But he emptied himself,。
taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of man and being found in human。
form. He humbled himself to the point of death, even death on the cross. He came and defeated。
death. And after that, he then resurrected. And what does he say after he gets resurrected。
in Matthew 28? It is all authority into heaven on earth has been given to me. Death has no。
hold on me and it won't have a hold on you. That is the unlimited banquet that we're invited。
to. Imagine how we would be if we didn't have that fear of scarcity, of poverty. Imagine。
how we would be, how you would live if you had that kind of faith, where even if you。
lose your job, even if you lose your loved one, you're okay. Because you know the one。
who has the complete authority now. And that person was willing to lay down his life so。
that you wouldn't have to trust in your works because you can now trust in his work, what。
he did on the cross. You still do your best with your works. You work as though you're。
working for him. But you don't have to put your faith in it because of what he did on。
the cross. And now he has the authority, he has the status. Therefore, God has highly。
exalted him to be the name above every name. So that every knee will bow and every tongue。
will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. He has that authority and he can say the word.。
Can we? Can we pray that the Lord would give us that kind of faith? So it doesn't matter。
whatever is happening outside, in the city, in the world, the stabbings that are happening,。
the bombings that are happening, or in our own lives, when our walls are falling apart,。
when we are genuinely worried about our job and how we're going to pay rent. Can we have。
that kind of faith where we're just saying, "Jesus, I trust in you." What's one situation,。
this is where I'll finish. What's one situation where you can surrender that to the Lord?。
What's the one situation where you are putting your faith in earthly merit? Where you are。
putting your faith in another person? Where you are putting your faith in another authority?。
What's one thing that you can just let go of and just say, "God, it's not anything to。
do with our worthiness, we don't deserve any of this, but because of you, I can trust you,。
so just say the word." It's interesting because when God says the word, it happens immediately.。
We are surrounded by people who just talk with no action. But when God does it, when。
he says, "Let there be light," and it happens immediately. God says the word and it will。
show you the power that he has, a power that is nothing, that we can't find anything like。
it in this world. Let's put our faith in that. Let's put our faith in Jesus. Can I pray for。
you? Lord, we spend a moment now and we come before you. Maybe we say those famous words,。
"Lord, we believe. Help our unbelief. Lord, we do want to trust in you. We do believe。
in you. We do think we have faith in you, but help our unbelief. We don't want to just。
believe in you. We don't want just to believe that you exist, but we want to believe you.。
We want to take you at your word and believe that you will do what you say you will do。
and that you are who you say you are." So Holy Spirit, can you just show us in this。
moment if there is anything that is in us that isn't of you? Anything else in this world。
that we put our faith in? Forgive us, Lord, for putting our faith in that thing or that。
person or that job. Some trust in chariots, some in horses, others in jobs, others in。
connections, but as for us, we will trust in the name of the Lord. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
