So one, two, three, let's all go together.。
One, two, three, let's all go together.。
One, two, three, let's all go together.。
He leads me besides the still waters.。
He restores my soul.。
He leads me in the paths of righteousness for His namesake.。
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,。
I will fear no evil.。
For you are with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.。
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.。
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.。
And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.。
Wow.。
Two weeks ago, I had a full medical.。
Now, when I mean full medical, I mean full.。
Everything that could be tested was tested.。
It took over five hours.。
Nervously, I waited for the results.。
Five days later, still no results.。
I want you to picture this.。
I'm in bed and the inevitable voice came to my mind.。
Just as I was trying to get to sleep.。
Why haven't you heard?。
Perhaps there is something seriously wrong.。
What is it?。
Now, fortunately, on this occasion, I had the answer.。
It had come in a book I had just read.。
A book written by Louis Giglio.。
A book with the unlikely title,。
"Don't Give the Enemy a Seat at Your Table."。
I was not having any of it.。
Now, Louis is actually an old friend.。
You see the picture up here.。
This picture was taken on 2008 here in Hong Kong。
when I was a young man, right?。
Sandra and I attended his first ever service。
at Passion City Church in Atlanta.。
And pre-COVID, if he was ever in Hong Kong,。
usually for a few hours layover,。
we'd try and grab a quick coffee together.。
By the way, the medical was all clear.。
But I had had to learn my lesson the hard way.。
As many of you will know,。
I've been suffering from mild clinical depression。
and quite recently have been on antidepressants。
and anti-anxiety tablets.。
Now, looking back, it had little to do。
with either COVID or political protests.。
And by the way, it had nothing to do with KFC.。
I just want to say that.。
But it had everything to do with 18 months。
of relentless noisy renovation by my next door neighbors.。
(Laughter)。
And me allowing it to dominate me。
rather than me dealing with it.。
In fact, I dealt with it very badly.。
And quite frankly, I lost it.。
If you want to know more, ask Sandra.。
But as I discovered in Louis' book,。
I realized I had given the enemy a seat at my table.。
And I'll explain this later.。
But let's move forward.。
I've got to say, I loved, I mean, absolutely loved。
our Women in the Old Testament series。
that we finished last week.。
And it was on the 22nd of May,。
Pastor James was preaching.。
He was preaching on Rachel and Leah.。
And he highlighted how envy, do you remember?。
Envy had taken control.。
It started from Rachel's original barrenness.。
And it caused any amount of problems。
and babies all over the place to wives and concubines.。
And that's how we got to get the 12 tribes of Israel.。
But then it hit me.。
I had a eureka moment.。
How often had I allowed envy a seat at my table?。
How often do we allow envy a seat at our tables?。
Having asked the question, I didn't like the answer.。
And for envy, substitute fear, worry, insecurity, anxiety,。
temptation, lust, or a hundred other things.。
And that was the very moment I decided to introduce。
this series to KFCI.。
And today is a sort of appetizer for a wonderful main course.。
And I hope it whets your appetite.。
But I need to tell you this evening, KFCI, it is time.。
I know I sound like the Lion King at Disney, right?。
It is time.。
It is time for us as Christians to win the battle for our minds.。
It is time to discover with the Bible,。
the Word of God is our weapon,。
how to break free from the chains of negative thinking。
and experience true freedom from unhealthy thoughts and emotions.。
And my friends, these nine words are possibly。
nine of the most important words that you will ever hear.。
They might just change your life.。
And those words are,。
don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
Let me repeat it.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
In fact, let's all repeat it.。
One, two, three.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
You see, the enemy is constantly seeking to fill our minds。
with destructive and harmful thoughts.。
Whether as I have mentioned, fear, worry, insecurity, anxiety, temptation, envy.。
It is all too easy for Satan to manipulate his way into a seat at the table。
intended for only us and Jesus。
and trying to make a home in our minds.。
It is an ongoing battle,。
but it is one we can win.。
In this series, we will share over 10 weeks。
some practical ways to overcome the enemy's lies。
and instead find God's peace and security。
in any challenging circumstance or situation.。
To set the scene, I've put up the 10 weeks.。
It's a spoiler alert, right on.。
But by drawing from Psalm 23 as a framework,。
what we're gonna do is we're gonna offer biblical insight。
onto how to cancel the lies that will wreck your lives.。
How to take empowering steps to live fully alive in Christ.。
How to stop the spiral of shame, temptation, and insecurity.。
How to restore peace and rest in your life.。
How to embrace the true purpose behind your journey。
through challenging circumstances.。
And how to break free from the endless cycle of destructive thinking.。
Does that sound good?。
That sounded good to two of you.。
That's good, excellent.。
It sounds good to me.。
You can find freedom from the war inside your mind。
if and only if you allow Jesus,。
the Good Shepherd, to lead the battle.。
We will learn together how to find encouragement,。
hope, and strength no matter what valleys you face.。
It's time to reject the lies and listen to the truth.。
Friends, you don't have to let your thoughts run wide.。
You don't have to allow the enemy to influence your thinking.。
You have power through Jesus Christ。
to take control of your thoughts and emotions.。
Jesus invites you to a table He has prepared for you.。
A table where the enemy is not invited.。
So let's take a realistic look at where most of us, if not all of us, where we are.。
Our minds spinning seemingly out of control with thoughts。
that are not only unproductive, but potentially destructive and harmful.。
And I need to tell you this evening, these thoughts are not from God.。
No, they're from an enemy.。
He's lurking, ready to seize any opportunity to lie His way into your mind。
and claim control over your life.。
I believe what we are going through together in Hong Kong at present is confusion.。
Confusion reigns over our city.。
We are a divided, isolated community.。
We don't trust each other.。
Depression and mental illness is rife.。
There are so many voices coming at us.。
And my research says that particularly our younger generation,。
our younger generations are confused.。
And one of the main things that they're hearing from authority figures,。
parents, teachers, society in general, is this,。
you're not good enough.。
You're not good enough.。
You're not as clever, beautiful, funny as your siblings, your friends.。
You won't be able to get a job, buy an apartment.。
You won't find the right person to marry.。
And we are hearing those voices in our head.。
Maybe like me, as I'm trying to go to sleep.。
Lauren Daigle in the first verse of the wonderful song, which we'll sing later,。
"You Say" says this, I'll put it on the screen.。
I keep fighting voices in my mind that say, I'm not enough.。
Every single lie that tells me I will never measure up.。
That is what today's generation are hearing.。
And I'm here tonight to tell you that you are good enough.。
And that just doesn't come from me.。
This is not the word of Pastor John.。
This is God's word for you.。
And God has other plans for you.。
Better plans where you can experience intimacy, rest and joy beyond your circumstances.。
I for one, I'm looking, looking forward to this journey.。
And James, Johnny, Michelle, and can I put a plug in for Paul?。
Paul will be our next generation speaker.。
We're going to be part of this series and they will be joining me.。
Are you excited about that? I'm excited, Paul.。
Now to do this, we're going to take a fresh look at Psalm 23.。
We read it earlier. It's possibly the most famous chapter in the Bible.。
It's read at weddings, funerals.。
It's on posters and bookmarks from the Elym bookstore.。
And one that we could probably all recite by heart.。
But if we are not careful, we can miss the power, the grit, the promise and the possibility of this Psalm.。
It was written by David, King David, who had experienced far worse situations than his next door neighbor's renovations.。
Life threatening situations and who had seen God deliver.。
This is not a quiet, soft, fluffy Kumbaya Psalm.。
This is a gritty Psalm from someone who had lived a life, seeing his whole future in the balance and seeing God come through.。
The invitation is powerful.。
And David opens with this line.。
The Lord is my shepherd. In fact, no, he doesn't. He opens with the Lord is my shepherd.。
Notice he doesn't say the Lord is a shepherd.。
But mine.。
I think David was proclaiming his personal connection with God.。
Certainly David knew he was talking about the God of heaven and earth, the ruler of the universe, the almighty and omnipotent one.。
But that very moment he was simply thinking, he's mine.。
It was Percival.。
And I want to challenge you whether you're here in the room, whether you're in the overflow, whether you're online tonight.。
If the Lord is not your shepherd, if you can't sing that, the Lord is my shepherd.。
I'm going to invite you to make a decision at the beginning of this 10 weeks.。
It will change your life.。
I will give you that opportunity before we finish.。
I'm very excited about next week when Pastor James will be taking a fresh look at a sort of remix version to use a musical term, as it were, of Psalm 23.。
He's going to lead us next week and indeed in all the messages to follow to see this famous chapter with new eyes.。
Be prepared.。
And the line I want to focus on this evening is this one. It's found in verse 5.。
"You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies."。
Now, if you and I were writing the Bible, I mean, we didn't write, but if you and I were writing the Bible,。
we would probably have written this verse a little bit differently.。
I would have written, "You prepare a table before me in your presence."。
Maybe a window seat.。
"And you scatter my enemies."。
But this table is in the presence of my enemies.。
Now, to help me, I've set up this table.。
I know you've been wondering about it since you came in tonight.。
And I need your help.。
I need you to use your imagination.。
I'll be honest with you. I wanted to prepare a lavish banquet for you.。
But I had fancy ideas.。
But thanks to Bonnie and Taobao,。
our reconstruction allows you to imagine a Michelin three-star set up with the finest wines,。
fruit, bread, and lots of goodies.。
In fact, it's so good, I think I want to take a selfie.。
I want to take one and post it on IG or Facebook or something.。
I've got a few in the background. That's lovely. Let's do one on this side. Good.。
One from the top. Yeah, that's lovely. Thank you very much.。
Good. But look, the analogy breaks down a little bit.。
For this illustration, you have to represent the enemy.。
Now, I just want to say you are not my enemy.。
In fact, the opposite. You're my friends.。
You're my friends.。
But please play along with me for the next 20 minutes.。
In fact, let's get the acting going.。
I know you've got masks on and things like that, but can you give me a sort of enemy growl?。
Can you ready? One, two, three.。
That was so good.。
What I want you to do now is to look at this table.。
There's just two seats.。
It was like the beginning of COVID, right?。
There were just two seats.。
One is obviously for me.。
But the other one is for the Good Shepherd.。
The one who wants to fulfill all my needs.。
Lead me in green pastures, by the still waters.。
The one who restores my soul.。
The one who leads me in righteousness and takes me through the valley of the shadow of death.。
I want you to get a picture in your mind.。
You've been invited to a banquet.。
Think of the most lavish banquet you've ever attended.。
I think it was Michelle's wedding when she was only allowed 40 people and you had the whole -- 20 people and you had the whole hotel, right?。
It was lavish.。
But you know when you go to these Hong Kong banquets, you go in and they say, oh, you're on the top table, right?。
But today, you're not only on the top table, it's just two people.。
You and the Good Shepherd.。
Your shepherd has prepared a table just for you.。
Now, I've got to say that this table did not mean that my enemies, right, would be removed from the equation.。
In fact, the table was set right in the middle of my enemies.。
I didn't need to earn my invitation.。
They didn't even ask me for my leave home, save app or take my temperature.。
I didn't have to show I am smart, vaccination proof.。
I didn't have to prove how good a Christian I am.。
How many services I've attended.。
How many times I've read the Bible from cover to cover.。
How many hours I spend in prayer every day.。
How much witnessing I've done this week.。
I didn't have to clear my name.。
I didn't need to work overtime to improve my chances of an invitation.。
My sole task is to concentrate on the Good Shepherd.。
The one who owned the table.。
My invitation was simply to put my trust in the one who wants to fulfill my needs,。
leads me in green pastures, by the still waters.。
The one who restores my soul, leads me in righteousness and takes me through the darkest valleys and threatening nights.。
The Good Shepherd would anoint my life with his favour and my cup would overflow.。
My promise, goodness, mercy and love would escort me every single day of my life.。
My destiny was set.。
I didn't need to be afraid.。
The Shepherd was on the table and he would see that I am going to dwell in the house of the Lord forever.。
I'm going to suggest that you spend these next 10 weeks reflecting on the truth of this Psalm.。
Now I know you've read this Psalm a million times before.。
I'm going to suggest this to you, that you read it daily.。
And you sit there with a pen and paper. Do you remember those? Pen and paper?。
Or the notes app, it's okay.。
And start to write down the thoughts that God gives you.。
I believe the practice of biblical meditation is sadly lacking in this hurried, busy environment we live in.。
Now biblical meditation isn't merely reading or studying God's Word,。
but musing and mulling over God's Word, whereby it grips our heart.。
In other words, its goal isn't to fill the head, but to improve your heart.。
We get our lessons from nature, from the cow.。
Do you know how many stomachs a cow has? Four.。
And when the cow chews on the cud, it chews on it in one stomach, then moves it to another stomach, etc.。
Really, my friends, you're not enemies for a moment, my friends, let it burrow into your soul.。
And can I make a suggestion?。
Now would be a really good chance, if you're not in a clan, to join a clan.。
Most of our clans will be looking at this passage over the next 10 weeks.。
But what this tells me is this, is that 1 Peter 5, 8 is 100% true.。
It says this, Peter says this, "Be sober-minded, be watchful.。
Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour."。
The fact of life is the devil is going to prowl around our lives.。
And actually, sometimes the closer we get to God, the more the devil is prowling around.。
Now, using this illustration, we cannot stop him prowling around our table.。
But you do have the choice whether you allow the enemy to sit down.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table is more than a helpful quote, a bumper sticker, a summer sermon series.。
My prayer for us at KFCI is that these nine words become a weapon and a weapon that leads to freedom.。
This is a story of a good shepherd who sees you and walks you, with you through the valley.。
It's about a God setting a table of nourishment and refreshment in the midst of trouble.。
This message lets you see how you don't need to let the thoughts in your head run wild.。
These words, "Don't give the enemy a seat at your table," are ultimately a message of victory.。
That's why we've chosen to do this series.。
It is different from our normal teaching series.。
But we want to help you, help you see that you have power through Jesus Christ to take authority over who sits at your table,。
over who influences your thinking.。
You can take back your freedom and control your thoughts and emotions.。
You don't need to be trapped by fear, despair, or rage.。
Your mind doesn't have to be stressed.。
You don't need to wrestle anymore with harmful thoughts.。
You are invited to an intimate relationship with the Almighty.。
The table He's prepared for you is one of peace, clarity, and abundance.。
You don't have to give the enemy a seat at your table.。
Come with us on this 10-week journey.。
And we can discover together ways to defeat the lies and find victory, peace, and security in the midst of any changing circumstance or situation.。
And I believe that you'll never look at Psalm 23 in quite the same way again.。
Mind my words, the devil wants nothing more than to crush you.。
If he can claim the victory over your mind, he will eventually claim victory over your life.。
But the message of Psalm 23 is that the Good Shepherd prepares a table for you.。
It is a table for two only and the devil is not invited to sit down.。
And I want to tell you, I'm in this battle with you.。
So are your pastors and leaders.。
I'm preaching this message to myself over and over again.。
And I'm confident our Good Shepherd will be glorified as He leads us in the battle for our minds.。
So let's go there together, me and you.。
It's time to take back what the enemy has taken.。
And I'm going to ask you to take a huge step here as I ask the band to come back.。
And we celebrate the body and blood of our Savior in the partaking of communion.。
I've deliberately kept the sermon a little bit short.。
Not just so we can do communion, but so we can do business with God.。
As the communion is being passed around, I want you to take hold of it.。
But firstly, we're going to sing a response song.。
I guess if everybody was in the room and there was no COVID, I'd tell you what I'd really like to do now.。
I'm not going to do it.。
I'd like to come around to each one of you, put my arms around you, and tell you what God really thinks of you.。
We're going to sing that song in a moment, the chorus, and it says this.。
You say I'm loved when I can't feel a thing.。
You say I'm strong when I think I'm weak.。
You say I'm held when I'm falling short.。
And when I don't belong, you say I am yours.。
I want you as we sing this song together to own it, to own those words.。
You've got a choice today.。
You can listen to all those voices, and they're going to keep coming at you.。
Or you can listen to God.。
This is my daughter, my son.。
I love you.。
I am yours.。
But before we do that, can we just close our eyes?。
I did promise you at the very beginning, and if you're online or in the overflow rooms, maybe you would want to do this.。
I just want to give an opportunity at the beginning of this series for anyone who is here, whether in person or online, to receive Jesus Christ as their Savior.。
So you'll be able to say the Lord is my shepherd.。
He's not somebody we read about in a book, somebody I hear about at church.。
He's not even in a way the supreme being of the universe.。
He is, but he's also my shepherd because I have a personal relationship with him.。
And if you today would like to take that step and ask him to come into your life, we'd love to pray for you.。
I just want to allow the Holy Spirit just to have his way amongst us.。
Just while every eye is closed, I'm only really speaking about the people in the hall that can't see everybody else.。
While every eye is closed, if you know today that you need to surrender your life to Jesus Christ for him to become your shepherd,。
I'm going to ask you to do one very, very simple thing just while every eye is closed.。
Could you just raise your hand so I can see your hand?。
Thank you.。
Thank you.。
Anybody else?。
Thank you at the back.。
I see that one.。
Good.。
Please don't go from here today until you've spoken to somebody.。
There's at least two people, we had two people in the room.。
Maybe more in the overflow, more at home.。
I think for the benefit of those, the shepherd leaves the 99 to go and take the one, right?。
Can we just pray together?。
Maybe that gentleman, that lady, can just pray this in your heart.。
Maybe repeat after me.。
Father God.。
Father God, I want you to be my shepherd.。
I thank you for sending Jesus to die for me.。
Jesus, I surrender my life and I receive your life.。
Be my shepherd.。
Draw close to me and fill me with your presence.。
All that I am, all that I have, I surrender to you now.。
In Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
I think it would be really good if we could sing this together.。
Stay seated.。
Just allow these words to seep into you.。
Make them personal for you.。
Then afterwards I'll come and lead you in a communion together.。
(gentle music)。
