Hello everyone, it's great to be on Zoom so I can get some interaction.。
You want to say hi in the chat box?。
I'm seeing people are responding.。
So today, during this sermon, it's going to be quite interactive.。
I will ask you some questions and feel free to type it in the chat box。
and I'm going to read them out as you answer them.。
So let's start.。
Today I'm just really excited because I want to share a message with you。
on how we can treat God as God.。
I don't know about you, but when we first learn about God,。
we learn that He's a loving Father and He gave us Jesus to take away our sins.。
Many a times, we kind of take Him for granted。
and after a while, we start using Him like a vending machine.。
And it's actually extremely offensive to Him.。
And so as much as He is a loving Father to us,。
He's also the Creator of the universe.。
He's holy and He's worthy of our absolute honor and respect.。
So today, I do want to go through the life of Japheth。
in the book of Judges together with you.。
And we'll go through quite a few chapters today, chapter 10, 11, and 12.。
So that way we can understand what are some of the pitfalls that we might have。
while we worship God because we can easily fall into the same pitfalls。
that we see from these characters.。
So today, it's a little bit of a heavier message,。
but it will bring us to really search our hearts to see if it's in the right place。
so that we can treat God as God and build a much more authentic relationship with Him.。
So let me give you some background first about these three chapters.。
Now there are a lot of verses, so we won't be able to read through all of them,。
but I do want to give you some background.。
All right. If you cannot see the screen, please let me know.。
All right. So at the beginning of chapter 10, we actually find an account。
where there are two short accounts of Tola and Jer.。
And they're actually judges that have served the Israelites for 23 years。
and 22 years respectively, but they only got six furs altogether.。
And they have then died. And then beginning in verse 6,。
we see a similar pattern, which we have been seeing in the Book of Judges.。
You should know by now, as the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord,。
they served a number of foreign gods and forsake God.。
So the author here actually lists out, I have listed it out for you,。
seven gods that they have been serving.。
And so God now is extremely angry and sold them into the hands of the Philistine,。
as well as the Ammonites. And the people were crushed and then they were oppressed now for 18 years.。
Now, the first question you can get ready with your chat box is,。
can anybody remember what the people of Israelites usually do when they are oppressed?。
What do they do? Let's see if I see any answers.。
When they're oppressed, what do they do? Cry out to God.。
All right, Agnes, Toby, Grace. That's right.。
They've been crying out to God. And what does God usually do?。
He usually, oh, you don't have to answer that one.。
So God usually answers to them, but silently he will raise up new judges.。
Now, interestingly, we find that in here, God actually breaks the cycle of silence。
because usually he just raise up a new judge without saying anything.。
Instead, this time God spoke back. And this is what he said.。
He said, "Did I not save you from these oppressors?"。
We'll see the list in a moment. "And you cried out to me and I saved you out of their hands.。
Yet you have forsaken me and served other gods. Therefore, I will save you no more.。
Go and cry out to the gods whom you have chosen. Let them save you in time of distress."。
And so we can see God is saying, "Sorry, guys, no go this time. You're on your own.。
Go to your God. Don't come to me when you're being oppressed."。
And so what we find is that God lists them out, which is breaking the cycle in a way。
because for previous judges that we have seen or previous chapters,。
he just replies to their cries and he raises a judge.。
But this time he's like, "Nope, you've been serving these people.。
I've already delivered you from these seven oppressors and you're still doing it."。
And what we see is that interestingly enough, he has raised seven judges up to this time.。
Now, I don't know about you, this 777, does it say anything?。
Well, if you were God, this is my question.。
If you were God, would you save the Israelites again?。
You can use the chat box now. No. Okay. I see a firm no.。
Anybody else? Of course. All right. Some people say, "Of course."。
Now, let's put it in perspective.。
What if it was your wife or husband or spouse who has been unfaithful to you for seven times?。
Is that going to be a yes or a no? That's a rhetorical question.。
You can answer it for yourself.。
But yes, I see that some people say yes, some people say no.。
Actually, I want to say for me, that's going to be a no.。
Maybe they won't even get through all seven times.。
But what we find here is that God is full of compassion and mercy.。
He continues to give Israelites a chance.。
And this kind of reminds me of a Bible verse in the New Testament, where Peter asked Jesus,。
he says, he asked Jesus, "How often should he forgive a brother who sinned against him?。
Was it seven times enough?"。
And Jesus said to him, "I do not say to you seven times, but 77 times."。
And here we can see that God is evidently patient and compassionate towards Israelites.。
It's very hard for humans to do it, but for God, he has this compassion for them,。
and he's still waiting for them.。
And that will bring us to our very first point, which is, since God loves us so much,。
don't use God, instead love him.。
Now, what we see here is that the Israelites only called out to God when,。
whenever they're desperately in need of his deliverance.。
Now, for 18 years, you know, it seemed like they didn't call out to God,。
and they just tried other gods.。
And at this moment where they cannot do any more things,。
because they've been oppressed to a point where they know they have to go back to God,。
it's almost like going to God as like a vending machine,。
where in times of trouble, that's the only time they reach out.。
And other times, they didn't want to be bothered with God.。
They don't want to serve him.。
And it's interesting.。
We would wonder, why is it -- why can't these Israelites just serve one God?。
What is this about serving all the other gods?。
Well, if we see what is the cost of serving God,。
maybe we'll kind of have an idea of why these people just can't serve God alone.。
Well, we see in Deuteronomy Chapter 11, it says there,。
"Love the Lord your God and always keep his mandate and his statutes, ordinances, and commands.。
And then the Lord will drive out all these nations before you.。
No one will be able to stand against you," it says in Deuteronomy.。
Now, what we realize is there is a price in following God.。
And the price is you've got to love him,。
and that you're going to have to follow his way of doing things.。
And obviously, the Israelites don't want to do that.。
They just want to live their path.。
They want to live their life doing their things.。
And so we're faced with similar challenges ourselves as the Israelites.。
They believe in God, too. They believe in God.。
They believe in him so much that he knows he's the one that will deliver them.。
But that's not enough for them.。
And so when everything's going fine, they just want to go off on their own.。
And that's the same with us sometimes.。
When we are going through peaceful times, we just go off and do our own things,。
and we don't spend time with God.。
And now I remember when it was earlier in my days where I used to attend church only,。
and actually at that time I was already baptized.。
I was in my early 20s.。
And I would go to God whenever I needed something,。
like if I needed to go to a certain school, or if I had a certain problem,。
or if I wanted to get a certain job.。
I prayed more desperately, and I would read the Bible more earnestly.。
I might even fast, you know, and just try to get him to do something for me.。
And then, you know, once the problems are solved, I would just go back to my normal life,。
which is I didn't quite read that much Bible at that time, and I also just did things my way.。
I didn't particularly think what he liked or how I should do so that I would be following his ways.。
And so it wasn't up until one point where I really thought,。
"Am I treating God as God, or is he just someone I go to for problems?"。
And once I begin to have that thought, I started to just say,。
"God, I really can't sit down for like an hour and spend time with you, and I'm really sorry,。
but I want to start maybe just two, three minutes either just doing a prayer or reading a devotional."。
And eventually, I got a devotional material where I just started reading one story a day,。
but I actually didn't do it every day either.。
You know, I think the frequency was like less than 50% of the time, I have to be very honest with you.。
But interestingly enough, when I started doing that, eventually, I think after a couple of months,。
God really started speaking to me through those two minutes or three minutes.。
And I started to feel like, "Oh, we're building a relationship."。
And I started reading more often, so it went from like less than 50% to like 70%,。
and it was gradually growing.。
And eventually, I actually got two devotional materials, and I also started reading the Bible。
because God was speaking to me, and I felt like I was building an authentic relationship with Him,。
and I was no longer just going to Him for problems.。
I mean, yes, I still go to Him for my more urgent and desperate problems now,。
but I feel like it's not out of using Him, but because He is my Father, and we have built this relationship.。
So this isn't being legalistic about spending time or doing this, meaning certain things,。
but really just wanting God and not wanting the gifts from Him.。
And so we need to treat God as God, and we can look, and we can't just look for Him when we're in trouble,。
we have to love Him, we have to build a relationship with Him.。
So now let's read on to Chapter 11.。
"And immediately after the Israelites cried out to the Lord, the people of Gilead,"。
which is one of the tribes, "asked, 'Whoever in the land can fight against the Ammonites,。
that person will be the head over the Gileads.'。
And there was a man called Japheth," which is our main character today,。
"who was a mighty warrior, except he was the son of a prostitute."。
So the elders and also his brother, his half-brother actually, kicked him out of the town,。
so then he would not take over some of the inheritance of the father.。
"Now eventually when the Ammonites made war, the elders of Gilead got so desperate。
that they went to him and said, 'Please just come back and be our leader.'。
And of course, you know, he was like, 'No, I'm not going to come back that easily.。
Are you going to be sure that I would be your head, or are you going to ask me to fight and then get rid of me?'。
And so they promised him that they will make him their head."。
And so what we find is that first he tried to approach the Ammonite king。
to see if he could talk them out of war or battle, but then he wasn't,。
and they were about to go to battle.。
And this is what was recorded in chapter 11, verse 29 to 32.。
"Then the spirit of the Lord was upon Jethed. He passed on to the Ammonites,。
and Jethed made a vow to the Lord and said, 'If you will give me the Ammonites into my hand,。
then whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace。
from the Ammonites shall be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering.'。
So Jethed crossed over to the Ammonites to fight against them, and the Lord gave them into his hand."。
Now this was a victorious, stunning battle, and Jethed actually captured another 20 cities.。
Then Jethed, when he has won this battle and he went back to his home,。
the first person that came out to meet him, can you guess who it is? It is his daughter.。
Now his daughter comes out with the tambourines and dancing, and he tore his clothes out。
because he's greatly distressed now, and he tells her that he had made a vow to the Lord.。
And his daughter actually understood what that meant, because at that time,。
other gods would have human sacrifices. And so they were really depressed,。
and his daughter said that she needed two months to mourn because she was still a virgin,。
and she will never know any man or be married or have children.。
And so after those days, she returned to Jethed, and he did what he vowed,。
which is having a human sacrifice at that time. And so this, you know, up to this point,。
I don't know about you, but I'm feeling like, oh, this is not a good story.。
And these records actually make us feel very uncomfortable, because as a reader,。
we can see that this tragedy can actually be avoided, and yet we sympathize。
for this innocent girl who didn't do anything wrong. Now, what is the author trying to tell us here?。
And so my question to you, and you can use the chat box, is,。
do you think that the author is trying to tell us not to manipulate or control God with our vowels?。
Now, can you let me know yes or no?。
The screen share has disappeared. Can you guys see my sharing?。
We can see. Okay, great. All right. Oh, yes, yes. All right.。
So I see a lot of people replying, saying that they think the author is trying to tell us。
just don't manipulate or control God. Oh, somebody said, I don't know. Okay.。
And so I wanted to tell you the people, all of you who said yes, you are very smart,。
because I thought like that, too. But that's when the but comes in.。
Is I thought about, you know, is this about God asking us not to control him,。
not to manipulate him with our vows and, you know, to sweeten the deal when we're desperate for something?。
However, at a closer look, we reveal that vowing or is not necessarily the question here,。
because do you remember someone by the name of Hannah?。
Hannah was a late was a wife of she was a wife in the Old Testament time where she desperately wanted a son,。
but she was not able to conceive. And so she prayed this vow to God, saying that if you give me a son,。
I will give him to you. And the Lord did answer her vow.。
And she did give her son to to the Lord all his life.。
And that is the prophet Samuel. And so looking at this, it seems like, wait a minute,。
I think God is kind of OK with vows. And if we look at Ecclesiastics, chapter five, verse four to six,。
we're going to see that it is reported that when you vow a vow to God, do not delay in paying it.。
Pay what you vow. It is better that you should not vow than if you vow and not pay.。
So apparently there seems to be like this this rule or this teaching from the Bible about what vows should be like.。
So more or less, we might be thinking, I think vows are OK, although the Bible did say if you were to vow,。
make a vow, then you are to repay it because it also says in Ecclesiastics that don't tell don't tell the messenger,。
which is the angel, that it was a mistake. Like, oh, I made a mistake.。
He says, don't say that. So it seems like God's OK with it.。
So, again, what is the author trying to tell us if it was, quote unquote, OK to have the vow?。
Well, the problem really here, I think that what the author is trying to say is that the problem is that he arrogantly vowed。
on something that he thought he would be willing to pay only to find that it was more than he signed up for.。
So this brings us to our second point, which is don't be arrogant, but humbly depend on God.。
Now, what does this mean? Well, we can't help but think that.。
Why is it that he had to say whatever, whatever that comes out of the door of his home?。
I mean, the word in Hebrew actually also means whoever.。
OK, so it's whatever or whoever. I mean, honestly, what did he expect to come out of his home?。
I mean, it's his wife or daughter. I mean, that was his only child.。
So either he really didn't like his wife and decided I'm going to scheme away to get rid of her.。
Or like, what was he actually thinking? And what we see is that at those time,。
they would have lived in something called a four room house, which means that there would be animals in there as well as human beings.。
So most likely he was thinking of sacrificing an animal.。
But, you know, he could have just been humble about his willingness to give up everything for God.。
And instead he could have just said something simple like when I come back with victory,。
I will burn an offering of a lamb or whatever to God.。
And that would have sufficed. But he didn't do that.。
So instead of being humble, he actually said he would give anything or whatever.。
And that's really overly being arrogant about how much it is that he's willing to give to the Lord.。
And now just on a side note, by the way, this is just for fun, is that if he actually knew the book of laws well,。
he would know that God is against human sacrifices in Deuteronomy chapter 18.。
And that even if he did make a special vow that is involving a person's value,。
he could have actually paid 30 shekels for a female in lieu of the vow.。
But anyways, it just shows that he doesn't really know his stuff.。
That's just a side note for your information.。
And now we might be actually for us, we might be very similar to Japheth as well.。
We may or may not say a vow to God, but in our hearts,。
we might arrogantly think that we're more spiritual than we actually are.。
I mean, why do I say that? Because we might overestimate our spirituality and make ourselves trapped into our words.。
And we need to be careful the words that we speak to God because we need to treat him as God.。
And so I want to share with you about how I was very arrogant at one time because I just finished a master's.。
When I first finished a master's degree in ministry at Agape, I just thought to myself, you know what?。
I'm on fire for God. I can do anything for him.。
So I pray this prayer, which I will never pray again, which is I said to God, I'm willing to do anything for you.。
Just send me out to whatever job you want within these two months.。
You know, I don't know how long it's going to take. Right. And I'm just going to go wherever you send me.。
So, you know, honestly, I was very, very. How should I say it?。
I was being very cunning because I was not sending out one resume. So I'm like, all right, God, I'll see how you can come up with a job for me.。
And then eventually someone asked me if I would translate at an event, which I said yes to.。
And after the event, the pastor came over and he actually works in an NGO.。
And he asked me, hey, would you like to work for my NGO? And I was like, oh, no, I prayed this prayer.。
I think I have to say yes. So I said yes. And let's just say, well, try not to guess which NGO or which pastor that was.。
But after like the first week, I already wanted to quit because they had four people there and I was already one of the four.。
And I used to work at a multi-billion, you know, a company that probably had 4000 employees.。
And they worked on like Chinese cultural things, which I was very, very unfamiliar with.。
Long story short, it was totally nothing like what I had expected. Maybe I was like Jeff that as well.。
I thought it would have been like a goat or a lamb that I had to sacrifice. I didn't think that it would be this much.。
And so just guess how long I stayed, guys. Two and a half years because I didn't dare to leave.。
And I just wanted to say that at that time, I overestimated what I could do for God.。
And I arrogantly thought that I was more willing to give things up than I really was.。
And I think for us also, sometimes our arrogance will may not come in like a form of a vow, but it might be something in our heart.。
For example, maybe when we're sinning in a certain area, we might tell God, God, we're so sorry. I'm so sorry.。
I'm never going to do this again. You know, I'm never going to do this again. Are you sure?。
And we might start promising him like, all right, if I do this again, take away this from me.。
Like this is something I really cherish. And, you know, we might, we are, we might be very authentic at that moment.。
But at the same time, it's an arrogant act for us to overestimate how much we can give for God.。
And so now even before coming to KSC, I actually prayed another prayer.。
And the prayer goes like this, Father God, please give me strength to do what you want me to do。
or allow me to be able to carry out what you or go to the, have enough faith to go to the places that you want me to go.。
Because I really don't dare to pray that prayer or say those things anymore.。
So let's treat God as God and humbly just depend on him.。
So let us continue now into Chapter 12. In Chapter 12, we'll only go through verse 1 to 7.。
And in this section, we see that the men of Ephraim, which is another tribe of Israel,。
they actually went up to Japheth and he, the men of Ephraim, threatened to burn down his house.。
We're like, why? Why are they threatening to do that? Well, that's because they claim that Japheth did not invite them into this victorious battle.。
And so because of that, they're going to burn down his house.。
Now, Japheth, on the other hand, says this. He says, "And when I saw that you would not come to save me, you being the men of Ephraim,。
I took my life in my hand and crossed over against Ammonite, and the Lord gave them into my hand.。
Why then have you come up to me this day to fight against me?"。
So here we can see that he's trying to tell the men of Ephraim, I did invite you. You didn't come.。
But in the text, it actually doesn't say whether or not he did invite.。
But what we see is that after this dialogue, without waiting, Japheth and his men fought against the men of Ephraim.。
And the author tells us that 42,000 of the men of Ephraim died.。
And that's basically wiping out their defense power.。
Now, at this turn of event, we don't know what to make of it,。
because God just delivered the people of Israelites from the Ammonites.。
And now they're causing for themselves civil war, which could totally be avoided.。
So what is it, again, what is the author trying to tell us here?。
All of a sudden, there's this insert of the men of Ephraim fighting against Japheth.。
And this actually brings us to our third point, because instead of celebrating what God is doing,。
actually both Japheth and the men of Ephraim, what they're trying to do,。
they just wanted to prove themselves as greater, better, more important.。
So they're exalting themselves instead of God.。
So my third point is don't exalt yourself, exalt God.。
Now, and this is very, very common, because as we read what Japheth said,。
he actually said, "I took my life and God gave the Ammonites to me in my hands."。
So it's more like he's focusing on how God has favored him, how God has been with him.。
And he's literally using God to say, "Hey, I'm the more favored one.。
I'm the one that is superior to you, and I am more and better."。
And whenever we exalt, whenever Japheth exalts himself like that,。
he's not able to have compassion for his brothers at all.。
Even if they were doing the wrong things, he saw himself to be the righteous one.。
And he's not leaving any room for his brother.。
Now, similarly, the men of Ephraim also questioned why Japheth didn't invite them.。
He's almost saying like, "Hey, you didn't invite me to this party,。
and I'm going to burn down your house."。
And, well, that's probably another way to say that I'm too important。
to not be in any winning battle.。
And this really allowed, you know, this just makes us think,。
what are these men thinking, you know?。
We just want to battle. Can't we just have a moment of peace?。
But we realize that when men and women, it just happens to be men here,。
wanted to exalt themselves, it actually blinds us.。
It's almost like we can't see the log that's in our eyes,。
and the only thing we could see is the speck in other people's eyes.。
Now, this is not so much talking about right and wrong.。
This is talking about how far will you go to prove that you are right?。
I mean, just because you're right doesn't mean you need to give people a hard time,。
and it doesn't mean that, well, for them, they killed 42,000 men,。
and it doesn't mean for you to, like, burn down another person's house.。
So it's a matter of how much compassion or mercy do we still have for our brothers。
when they "have wronged us" or we think they have wronged us?。
And when we exalt ourselves, we're never going to see that.。
When we exalt ourselves, we just see their flaws.。
But if we exalt God, then we're going to know that we are also sinners,。
and it is God that is the only perfect and right person.。
And so we begin to have the right perspective, and we humble ourselves,。
and we're able to extend that compassion and mercy to another person.。
And now, I mean, recently with a lot of things that happen in Hong Kong,。
I think it's not easy to do this because a lot of times, no matter what stance we have,。
it's easy for us to say our side is right.。
This is the way to look at things.。
And honestly, only God knows what is right,。
and He is the only one who can judge.。
But along the way, when we're trying to prove that we are right,。
what kind of measures will we take?。
Will we go all the way out?。
Are we going to wipe out--I mean, using this analogy, burn down people's house--。
are we going to wipe out 42,000 men?。
Or are we going to be able to say, "God is the only one who knows what's right.。
Even if I was right and someone was wrong, I can still have the compassion。
because I'm a sinner, and I do wrong things all the time too,"。
and be really having that right perspective and give it all back to God。
to be the judge and to be the one that is in control。
and exalting Him and all the works that He does.。
So today I just really want to just share one message,。
even though there are three points, which is just for us to reflect,。
are we treating God as God in our lives?。
I mean, are we using Him in the times where we want or where we need deliverance,。
when we need something?。
Is that the only time we go to Him?。
Do we want to build a relationship with Him?。
And if not, it's time for us to be challenged and think, "I need to change.。
I need to do something that's different because I don't want to keep using God anymore."。
And I'm sure that's all of us here wanting to build a more authentic relationship with Him.。
And also at the same time, we don't want to be arrogant.。
We don't want to overcompromise, thinking that we can tell God how spiritual we are。
and overpromise on things that we can't do, but instead we can just humbly just depend on Him.。
And whatever things that we are having a problem with, we can just tell Him that we need Him。
and we need to depend on Him.。
And thirdly, not to exalt ourselves because when we do that,。
it's easy for us to come into conflict with other people, demanding that to prove that we're right.。
And sometimes while we prove that we're right, we use extreme measures.。
We might badmouth someone.。
We might just hate them and we might even unfriend them and never talk to them.。
We might just go to the extremes to prove that we're right.。
But remembering that we're sinners and only God is the one that we can exalt。
will put us back into the right perspective.。
So today, I pray that it will be a chance for us to reflect as we look at Japheth。
and the different people in this story to really rethink just one question.。
Are we treating God as God or something else?。
And I strongly encourage all of us that we need to treat Him as God。
and for no other reason other than He is God.。
So right now, I want to pray for all of us as we close in this message,。
asking God to speak to us.。
Let's pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we just want to come before you and we just repent。
because there must be times when we just use you.。
There are times when we didn't care about building a relationship with you,。
but instead we just wanted you to help us with this problem or that problem.。
And Father, there are also other times when we just think we are so spiritual。
that we could give you anything only to find that it was such an arrogant act。
that we just needed to tell you that we need you and we can't do it。
and humble ourselves.。
And Father, we're really sorry for those times and we pray that you will help us.。
And Father, more than not, we fight with one another.。
And for what reason than to really exalt ourselves and to say that we are the one。
that's right, we are the one that's more important,。
when all along you are the only person that's right and important.。
And so Father, we pray that we'll continue to see ourselves as sinners。
that are being gracefully loved by you so that we could love other people as well.。
And Father, you are our God and today we come before you。
and we want to treat you as our God.。
And Father, we pray for your Holy Spirit to help us。
so that our lives is a way that we give you as an offering.。
And Father, we pray that your Holy Spirit will be a way that we give you。
so that your lives will be pleasing to you.。
