Alright, well, okay, what do we have here?。
Well I wanted to make lime soda, okay, but I only found lemon today, so it's lemon soda,。
okay, and I'm just going to add a little bit of water, a little bit more to it, and there。
we go, nice cup of mouthwatering, lime soda, lemon soda it is.。
Now who wants to drink a cup of this?。
It's not sake, okay, sorry for the confusion.。
Oh, there we go, JP, alright, but there's no drinking here, so afterwards, okay.。
Alright, save one for you, this is for JP, okay, there we go.。
Alright so what I'm going to do is I've brought something, and the reason I needed my mask。
on is because, well, it's one of a kind kind of thing.。
Never mind the, I mean, not doing magic up here, so, although it does seem like I am.。
So look at this, no, it's feces.。
Oh, poop, thank you, I love all this response.。
Oh, that's why I have to keep my mask on until later, okay.。
Let me just maybe use this tissue to help me a little bit, alright, don't ask who's。
is it, doesn't matter.。
Alright, okay, not a lot guys, not a lot.。
Look at this, this is the McDonald's, it's very little, okay, just a little bit, okay,。
not too much.。
Alright, just a, okay, I haven't dropped it, I haven't dropped it, I haven't dropped it.。
Oh, alright, alright guys.。
Alright so, now, again, anyone wants a cup of this?。
No, no, no, I've got another.。
Okay I'll save this one for you, JP.。
Anyone wants, come on, it's just one cup, it's okay.。
No, I'm up in the front row, no, okay, alright.。
Well this is exactly what, let's go to the next slide.。
So this is exactly what we are going to be talking about tonight.。
What is it?。
A little folly is dangerous, just a little bit.。
I mean I didn't put a lot in, but all of you are like, no, and I did waste some lime soda,。
but that's okay.。
If it gets the point across, it was well spent.。
Okay now I can take my mask off I think.。
Just FYI, it was satay sauce, okay.。
So don't worry, the aroma is still okay up at the stage right now.。
Okay so, tonight I really want us to get this one point across, which is a little folly。
can ruin everything, as you've just seen.。
No matter how much honor or glory that you have, just a little bit of stupidity, a little。
bit of foolishness, it's just going to ruin everything and be catastrophic.。
So today we're just going to look at that and see, well then how is it that we can live?。
Well when we need to be wise, and what does that look like?。
So we'll look at it together.。
So the first verse we see, "As the dead flies give perfume a bad smell, so little folly。
outweighs wisdom and honor."。
Now perfume is supposed to be a great scent, right?。
It's a nice sweet aroma and you spray a little bit on it.。
I'm sure the ladies like it a bit more than the men.。
And then you smell great, but you don't want someone to sniff you and say, "Oh, what's。
that smell?"。
Because there's a dead fly that could have been decaying inside of it, right?。
And so in the second verse it also says, "The heart of the wise inclined to the right, but。
the heart of the fool to the left."。
Now this is not like a physical checkout where we're going to see, all right, is your heart。
on the right side or the left side?。
But it's really saying how the wise and the foolish people can have a world of difference.。
They're going in different directions.。
And the wise are going for the right side.。
And right actually in the Hebrew means what is favorable, what is good.。
And so in verse three, we see that, "Even as fools walk along the road, they lack sense。
and show everyone how stupid they are."。
I actually quite love the Bible here because, I mean, I love the Bible everywhere, but here。
it actually says stupid.。
You're like, "Oh, so we can actually use the word stupid, which is great."。
But I think more of it is just showing that the word of God is trying to tell us that。
the people who lack sense, even when they walk around, they are already sending out。
the message, "I'm stupid, I'm stupid, I'm stupid," to everybody and you can't miss it.。
So recently, this month, there has been a number of doctors, right, you may have noticed,。
arrested.。
For what issue?。
Doing false COVID vaccination examinations, right?。
For the price of, I mean, I didn't know this, not because of my personal experience, but。
only because I read the news, $500 to $3,000 a piece.。
So from this February until now, I mean, they could have easily made millions, if not tens。
of million dollars.。
Now some of the patients were also arrested.。
Now studying medicine is not easy, right?。
And so they have already become professionals, they're doctors.。
And now they're going to lose everything.。
They're going to lose the money, they're going to lose their freedom, and they're going to。
lose their prestige.。
They lose everything because of one mistake that they made.。
And that's the kind of folly, the stupidity that they're going through.。
And now, why would somebody do this?。
Why do you think someone would choose foolishness over being wise?。
Doing bad instead of good, why do you think they choose that?。
Well, you know what?。
Because it feels good.。
It feels good to make money that's really fast.。
It feels good that you don't have to work hard for it.。
And it feels good even for some people to have the excitement of adultery, right?。
And it feels good to just be a potato couch and not do any exercise.。
So everything, all the reasons, maybe not all of it, but one of the reasons that people。
would choose to not do good and wise things is because doing bad actually feels quite。
good.。
And that's what we have seen from the beginning of the Bible, Adam and Eve, right?。
I don't think I need to tell you more about.。
And just one mistake and everybody needs to die.。
So I mean, I hope that every day we are not faced with such crucial decisions.。
But yet, Ecclesiastes chapter 10 is really telling us just a little bit of folly is just。
going to make everything go bad.。
Now, so we need to desire for what is good.。
Here in the second verse, it was telling us that the good, their heart inclines to the。
right, but the foolish people to the opposite side, right?。
Now the very first thing that we need is to choose good instead of feeling good.。
And we need to desire for what's good.。
Do you desire for what's good?。
I mean, most of the time we do until it's very uncomfortable for us and then we don't。
want to do it.。
So we need to overcome that.。
We need to discipline ourselves.。
Maybe it means sleeping early.。
I know I'm guilty.。
My mom's always like, "Why is your light still on?"。
And I'm like, "Oh, I'm just watching one more YouTube videos."。
And then what are we eating?。
We're choosing the fatty meats, right?。
Those are the good ones.。
And often we just want to do whatever it is that pleases our body instead of what is good.。
So interestingly enough, you know how many people want healthy body?。
Maybe many do, but actually not many people follow through with the action and the discipline。
that is required.。
And so here, if we're thinking about, okay, all right, so the Bible says a little bit。
of folly is dangerous, a little bit of bad is going to be catastrophic.。
What should we do?。
Choose good by desiring it and also secondly, doing it, actually doing it.。
I mean, I've heard many times, sometimes I send some links to people.。
I'm like, "Hey, this is good for you.。
You should try this out."。
And they always say, "Yeah, I already know this."。
I'm like, "Okay, are you doing it?"。
They're like, "Nah, not doing it."。
And so it's one thing to desire good for our hearts inclined to the right, but second to。
actually live it out so we don't communicate to people, "I'm stupid, I'm stupid, I'm stupid,。
I'm stupid," because we need to choose that.。
Now in verse four it says, "If a ruler's anger arises against you, do not leave your post.。
Calmness can lay great offenses to rest."。
Now here's a situation where a ruler is angry, but instead of being scared or throwing the。
towel and just, "I'm going to leave.。
I don't want to do this anymore."。
This person actually has calmness, has a kind of attitude that helps this person takes care。
of the situation.。
Now it's only human response, right?。
I mean, who likes it when someone...。
I mean, this person is saying there's someone angry, right?。
It's actually a ruler that's angry.。
Now who likes it when you see an angry person coming towards you?。
Husbands?。
Wives?。
Anybody?。
I mean, what do we do?。
As they're coming in, "Oh my goodness, I'm going to dodge.。
Where's the exit?。
I just want to leave.。
I don't want to confront it.。
I won't do anything."。
Now I don't have a problem with facing someone with anger, but I have the problem with the。
next part, which is staying calm.。
Staying calm.。
I mean, what is that?。
It's like, well, because when someone says it, you're like, "Well, I didn't do this.。
Somebody else did."。
Well, if you didn't do it, I wouldn't do it.。
And so what we find is that we either run away from the situation, okay?。
Or when we're facing it, we're so angry that there's conflicts and conflicts.。
So here it says that this person is using calmness, okay?。
Kind of an attitude, is negotiating, is listening, is compromising, is talking through things。
in order to solve the problems.。
And this is wise, and this will take away a lot of follies.。
I know a lot of marriages, they might break down because of why.。
You can't really practice this, can you?。
It's hard.。
But what we want to do is we want to purge all this folly out.。
Maybe it'll save your marriage.。
If we purge this foolishness out, maybe it'll save our job.。
We won't have to go to prison.。
Maybe we don't have to go through all these hardships with our jobs, our relationships,。
our study.。
And so these are the things that we must consider when we want to live a life that is wise.。
Now as we read on, we're going to see in verse 5, 5, 6, 7, actually the entire chapter is。
about foolishness and stupidity, so we're going to see more of it.。
So verse 5 it says, "There is an evil I have seen under the sun, the sort of error that。
arises from a ruler.。
Nobles are put in many high positions, while rich occupy the low ones.。
I have seen slaves on horseback, while princes go on foot like slaves."。
Now the next stupidity that we see is the wrong people are being put to do certain things。
that they cannot actually fulfill.。
Now fools are being put on high positions and the rich and low ones, slaves on horseback。
and the nobles on foot.。
And so there is a mismatch.。
And do you know that sometimes we can be foolish and we can have a mismatch as well?。
I mean, do we make all the time good friends or sometimes we make harmful friends?。
And do we go after a job that is satisfying or sometimes we go for jobs that are a mismatch。
for us?。
And we have to think about it.。
Are we putting the right people to the right things?。
So the second thing that we must do in order to purge this foolishness out is that we must。
be extra cautious.。
Now how can we be extra cautious?。
Well let's put the right people with the right things.。
Take the time to meet the right people and find a church that is going to help you grow,。
which is right here.。
And also you will try to do a job that is satisfying for you.。
You need to take the time to do that.。
You need to observe.。
You need to ask people around.。
And that's how it is that we can have the right fit.。
Actually I'm just going to add on.。
Now that I just see Agnes right here, I still remember when I first came to the job, this。
place requires like a number of references and I had interviews after interviews and。
I thought, "Oh my goodness, when is that going to finish?"。
And I mean it just shows the amount of diligence.。
And actually we need to do that too.。
If we're extra cautious, we're putting the right people with the right things at the。
right time.。
And so this is the kind of action that we can do in order to purge that fooliness.。
All right so let's read on.。
Verse 8 and 9.。
"Whoever digs a pit may fall into it.。
Whoever breaks through a wall may be bitten by a snake.。
Whoever quarries stones may be injured by them.。
Whoever splits logs may be endangered by them."。
Now people who dig pits know actually that there's a possibility to fall in it, right?。
And people in the past actually when they made these walls, there were stones and then。
they mixed it with motar.。
And so snakes could easily have been creeped in and it would have made a home for the snakes.。
And so what we see is actually that these are actually quite predictable things.。
These are not things that will never happen or we've never heard of them.。
But the thing is, if we are to be wise, then we need to take precaution.。
We need to think about what might happen.。
We just don't go about our day not thinking about the danger or the possibility of these。
negative things happening.。
But we take precaution and that way we're going to be able to live wise.。
Otherwise, you know, I've heard some people say, "Well, God didn't protect me because。
you know I was out doing this and something happened to me."。
But the thing is, did we do enough of a precaution to prevent what might possibly happen to us?。
And if we do, then we are being wise.。
Now let's read on.。
So verse 10 to 11, "If the axe is dull and its edge unsharpened, more strength is needed,。
but skill will bring success.。
If a snake bites before it is charmed, the charmer receives no fee."。
Now these two verses tell us something slightly different, okay?。
Because an axe is a tool that you would use if you were trying to cut a tree or, but however,。
it is unsharpened, okay?。
And even though the snake charmer might be present or around, but he doesn't come in。
time to charm the snake.。
So what does it say?。
Well, it means that more than just taking precaution, we actually need to be prepared.。
We need to be prepared.。
So if you're going to do that job, if you're going to use that axe, well, sharpen it.。
Well, if you're going to be the snake charmer, which I guess none of us are here, but whatever。
it is that you need to do, you need to think ahead, prepare for it.。
You don't just go there and, "Oh, it already happened?。
Okay, I guess you don't need me."。
And then I'll go.。
So planning ahead now.。
And then just like me, I mean, I'm planning ahead for the arrival of baby.。
Yes.。
I mean, I do the necessary checkups.。
I go to the hospital to make sure my file's in there.。
I mean, we would go about buying the strollers, the baby bottles, and just preparing for everything.。
I mean, hopefully no one waits to the last day, "Oh, I'm giving birth."。
Wait, there's no bed for the baby.。
So we don't do that because we prepare ahead of time.。
And we should do that with the things and decisions that we make as well.。
And so if we take extra caution with the things that we do, then we are going to purge out。
that stupidity, the falliness that the author is telling us.。
Now as we read on, we'll read the last section.。
Verse 12 to 15, it says, "Words from the mouth of the wise are gracious, but fools are consumed。
by their own lips.。
At the beginning, their words are folly, and at the end are wicked madness.。
And fools multiply words.。
No one knows what is coming.。
Who can tell someone else what will happen after them?。
The toil of fools wearies them.。
They do not know the way to town."。
Now essentially, we've read quite a few verse, you're like, "Okay, seems like there's some。
things to do with stupid talking and whatnot."。
And so essentially, these three verses actually means that fools don't know what they're talking。
about.。
And the words that they say, maybe many, I mean, just because you say a lot of things,。
which I do too, doesn't mean you're stupid.。
But it just means that when you say things and they actually are stupid, it has no meaning.。
And these people actually, when we see them, they are proud.。
How do we know that?。
Well, the first thing is their lips are harsh.。
And the second thing is they talk as if they know the future.。
They talk as if they know the future.。
And it says right here, "But no one knows what is to come."。
Now, interestingly enough, in these verses, verse 13, it actually says, "At the end,"。
so at the beginning, their words are folly.。
At the end, they are wicked madness.。
Now how is it possible that as we talk and talk and talk, we become wicked?。
What do you think this is saying?。
Well, it's trying to tell us that if we think we're able to know what tomorrow is going。
to happen and we speak as if we are God, that is evil.。
Now in James 4, 13-16, we won't read it together, but I'll tell you that what it talks about。
is that there's someone who actually boasts about what he will do today and tomorrow,。
and even next year.。
But the Bible says, "You don't even know what will happen tomorrow, so why boast these schemes?"。
And it actually says, "All such boasting is evil."。
Now the reason that the Bible is telling us that it's evil is because of not the words。
they say, but of their proudness and of their boastfulness.。
And so when we have this attitude that I know everything, I even know...。
For me, I can't even say, "Okay, three months from now, baby will come out."。
You know how I should say it?。
Like what the Bible says, "If the Lord wills, three months later, this might happen."。
Because we really don't know what's going to happen.。
And so for us, this brings us to our third point, which is we need to acknowledge God.。
If we want to purge all this foolishness, this out of our lives, we need to acknowledge。
God.。
We don't know what's going to happen tomorrow.。
We can't be prideful.。
And if we humble ourselves and leave room for God to know that everything's under His。
sovereignty, He's going to take care of it all.。
I mean, I can only plan and do my best, but you need to leave room for God.。
He can do still whatever it is that He wants.。
And so in verse 16 and 17, as we read on, it says, "Woe to the land whose king was a。
servant and whose princes feast in the morning.。
Blessed is the land whose king is of noble birth and whose princes eat at a proper time。
for strength and not for drunkenness.。
Though laziness the rafters sank, because of idle hands the house leaks."。
Now the author is trying to move away from everyday life to a ruler, a king.。
It is saying that this king, this king who was a servant, his sons, which are the princes,。
they're feasting in the morning time.。
And when we hear morning time, we know that it means they're doing self-indulgence, which。
means that they're just enjoying it over excessively for themselves.。
And then on the other hand, there is a king who is born of noble birth and his sons, how。
do they eat?。
They ate properly.。
I mean, not properly, like not spilling stuff, but they ate proper for strength and not for。
self-indulgence.。
And so what does this tell us?。
Well, in order that we acknowledge God, we need to actually be good stewards of what。
he has given us.。
Just because he has allowed you to be king, princes, or I mean, none of us are here, but。
we have a lot of resources and talents that God has given to us.。
And if we acknowledge that it's God who gave it to us, we're not going to be foolish.。
We're not going to like just use it for our own enjoyment only.。
We're going to consider what is proper and we're just going to use the right amount and。
we're going to consider what other people need as well.。
So we need to be good stewards.。
And in verse 19 and 20, it says, "A feast is made for laughter and wine makes life merry。
and money is the answer for everything."。
So there's the Bible quote, "Money is the answer for everything."。
Do not revile the king, even in your thoughts, but don't take it out of context.。
Do not revile the king, even in your thoughts or curse the rich in your bedroom, because。
a bird in the sky may carry your words and a bird on the wing may report what you say.。
And so here in these last two verses, we're like, "Oh, I'm not quite sure how it fits。
in with everything else."。
I mean, actually the entire chapter, you have this sense of not sure how it fits in with。
everything.。
But it seems like these king and princes who are of high power, they are actually affecting。
the society.。
They're using the resources in a way that it doesn't leave much for the other people,。
or they're just thinking about themselves.。
Now a lot of us, a lot of people actually, they might be quite angry with the rulers,。
with the princes.。
We're going to be like, "Why are they doing this?"。
And what would you do?。
Because there's nothing much you can do.。
So you just go to your bedroom and you start cursing them.。
And you start complaining, and maybe to your family members, "You can't believe, why would。
they do this?"。
And then it says, "Actually, don't do that.。
Don't do that."。
But it doesn't quite tell us, "Well, okay, well, the birds are going to report it.。
Okay, well, Twitter?。
Is it Twitter?。
I don't know."。
I mean, what is that, right?。
But it just means that actually as we have this attitude, it's just still going to flow。
out.。
If you're going to be cursing someone, we'll be holding grudges against the people that。
you feel like are unjust, it's just going to flow out.。
And at the same time, not only does it flow out, but you know what it means?。
It means that we think we're better than them.。
The only time we complain, curse, is because we think we're more righteous than someone。
else.。
But let's not do that.。
That's foolishness.。
Let's acknowledge God and let him be the judge.。
That's the last part of acknowledging God.。
I mean, it's not...。
The next slide.。
It's not easy for us to be able to live this life without any foolishness.。
But in this chapter, it actually gives us a lot of hope because if we are actually following。
God, if we only do or at least try our very best with the help of the Lord to do whatever。
it is good to desire for those things instead of our own feelings, it's going to be wise。
for us.。
Can we go to the next slide as well?。
And also, when we are extra cautious, when we put the right people with the right tasks,。
take the precaution that we need and we prepare ourselves, that we can purge away the foolishness.。
And lastly, when we fear God, acknowledge him, we leave room for him to do whatever。
it is that he wants, we're always remembering that he is the one in control, being good。
stewards.。
And even if we see things that we feel like we're doing better than others, we're leaving。
God to judge.。
Now, recently I'm getting a new helper at home to assist with the baby as soon as it。
comes out, it, I'm still calling it it right now.。
I have to say that she, not she, the helper, is wiser than myself.。
Now I almost let a little folly make a big mess.。
Now what happened was that after I've signed the contract with her, we needed to wait for。
her visa.。
And so meanwhile, she was staying in an auntie's place at a certain amount of money and she。
gets food and accommodation.。
Now I just thought to myself, well, since I have a room in my apartment, an extra room,。
why don't I just ask her to come and stay with us?。
Because I just thought, well, she's not working, I'm not going to pay her.。
And she's just going to stay there and the visa will come out, you know, everything is。
just going to be smooth.。
We're not breaking any laws, it sounds reasonable.。
And she's agreed to it.。
And then a few days later, I've spoken to her, I mean, a few days later after this spoken。
arrangement, she text me.。
And then she showed me a news of some Filipino helpers that were arrested and exported because。
they were working illegally at bakeries, bars and restaurants.。
Now I asked her, I said, well, are you worried?。
Are you worried that if you come over to stay with us that something similar might happen?。
And she told me that, oh, maybe it is best that she continues to stay at her auntie's。
place until her visa comes out.。
Now I've originally actually agreed that I would pay for part of that accommodation.。
Now she told me actually, don't worry about it because she has enough money from the previous。
employer who purchased a ticket for her to go back home, but she's not flying home.。
So she says she's got enough to stay at this accommodation.。
And also she says she's quite thankful that she will be working with us, a Christian family,。
because she's also a Christian.。
And so when I thought about this, I just realized that, you know, what I had done a little folly。
on my part could have been dangerous.。
But yet she was wise.。
You know what she did?。
She chose good instead of feeling good because it would have felt good if somebody else,。
I mean, if she stayed with me, then she wouldn't need to pay for accommodations, right?。
It would feel good towards her.。
But despite the fact that she would save money and also secure the job, right?。
Because who knows if visa is really going to end up coming or not.。
She actually desired for good to keep that boundary absolutely clean with her decisions.。
I mean, what's going to happen?。
If somebody actually caught us and then we said, "Oh no, she's not working.。
I'm not giving her money."。
How are we going to prove that, right?。
But she desired what's good and then she also executed it.。
But what I really liked was her attitude because actually she was having that calmness that。
we talked about earlier, which was she sent the article to me so that I would read it.。
And instead of, you know, how sometimes you want to bring up a situation and if you've。
got very frank and go directly into it, someone might feel offended, right?。
But she didn't do that.。
She's like, "Oh, I've seen this.。
What do you think?"。
And I just really admired her for the amount of good attitude that she had.。
And just to make sure that we wouldn't come off already at the beginning being misunderstood.。
And finally, just seeing that how she's taking that precaution to be extra careful so that。
even if somebody found out, even though we're not doing anything technically illegal, that。
it would still be clean.。
And lastly, I think she really acknowledged God, that she was a good steward of the money.。
I didn't expect her to say that, "Okay, I'm just going to use the flight money and it's。
okay."。
You know, for her to really come out and say that, I just have a lot of respect for her.。
And out of this, I really saw that a little folly can be dangerous.。
Now imagine if we went ahead with it.。
I mean, if nothing happened, it would have been fine, right?。
But if something awful had happened, she could have been deported, blacklisted, and I would。
have no helper.。
All because of a little folly, a little convenience.。
And recently, for me, there's all these kinds of things that would happen every day.。
For example, I was considering to go fly to Japan.。
And of course, me, my mom, my friends all said, "Okay, let's go, let's go."。
And so we were going to travel agents and everything.。
And finally, one of our friends says, "Hey, you know what?。
Thought about it.。
Let's take extra precaution.。
It might be dangerous going up high and coming back low."。
So I mean, just with our everyday life things.。
Even yesterday, okay, I was tempted.。
We were at a buffet and there was this toro sushi.。
Okay, so I had one.。
Wait, two, I think.。
I failed there.。
A little bit of folly.。
But what I wanted to say is, yes, sometimes, because we seem to get by with things, and。
we made it, and it makes us more risk-taking.。
Let's do this, let's do that.。
But think about it.。
There are big and small decisions.。
And I'm praying for protection for my toro yesterday, but I've almost sensed that I'm。
testing God.。
But what we really need to do, if we really don't want this dunk, ooh, it's floating around。
up here, in our lives.。
If that tastes sauce, don't worry.。
Let us not have even a little bit of foolishness.。
Let us purge that out.。
Let us live out this, choosing good, being extra cautious, acknowledging God in all we。
do, so that God can bless us with the plans that he originally has for us.。
And at the same time, we live for the glory of God.。
I mean, I can't imagine me going up on the news saying, "Oh, there's a pastor of a certain。
church illegally hiring a helper."。
There is no glory to that, for sure.。
And so, let us really allow Holy Spirit, every day with our decisions, to make wise ones,。
purge out every single foolishness that can possibly be there.。
So let's pray together and ask God to continue to help us.。
Yehevni, Father, we thank you for your word.。
We thank you that you are the one that is full of wisdom, and you are the one that blesses。
us with all good things.。
And Father, we just pray that as we live out this life, that we remember to acknowledge。
you, and that we remember that when we do all the things that we do, that, Father, it。
is not for ourselves.。
Because if we want to follow our own desires, it just means that we don't consider you to。
be our Lord.。
But if we do, and I believe that all of us who are here online, if we believe and know。
that you are our Lord, let us, Father, desire what you desire.。
Let us have that discipline to do what is good.。
Let us pay that extra precaution so that you can bless us.。
And let us always acknowledge you and fear you, because you are a God that is worthy。
of praise.。
And so, Father, we just pray that every day, if we're confused, that you speak to us through。
your Holy Spirit.。
Don't do this.。
Do that.。
Don't be mad.。
Say this instead.。
Don't be scared.。
Go boldly.。
And so, Father, we just, we're your children, and we await for you.。
Thank you so much for loving us and to guide us into a life that is just a great relationship。
that we can walk with you.。
Thank you, Father.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
