(silence)。
We're right in the middle of this series.。
Don't let an enemy, don't let the enemy。
a seat at your table.。
And last week, Pastor John did a great job。
of telling us that God has our back。
in the midst of different difficulties in our life.。
God has our back.。
In the midst of lies that attack our minds,。
God has our back.。
A lot of times, there is a battle in our mind.。
Who's been watching the Olympics nowadays?。
Who's been watching the Olympics?。
They say, well, actually, I don't know exactly。
what the stats are, but that physical part。
of doing the Olympic sport, it's probably maybe 70%.。
You gotta prepare yourself, you gotta diet well,。
you gotta train yourself, but 30%, or maybe more,。
it's a mental preparation.。
You gotta prepare yourself mentally.。
It's the battle of the mind.。
I remember one of the athletes, they said,。
how did you win the scoring goal?。
A reporter asked him, and he said,。
I envisioned it in my mind before I did it.。
The battle of the mind.。
I remember a student, his name was Jay.。
And a lot of times, people call up,。
hey, Pastor Johnny, would you talk to my son。
or talk to my friend?。
He's going through something.。
And so I talked with my friend, this friend's friend.。
His name was Jay, and I quickly learned。
that he was feeling a little bit depressed.。
He had recently broken up with a girlfriend,。
and he's feeling really down.。
And he couldn't eat.。
He was studying and he couldn't study.。
He was in university, and he couldn't study.。
And the thing is, he kept bumping into her at university,。
and that made her even more depressed.。
It got so bad to a point where he wanted to commit suicide。
just to get her attention.。
And when I started understanding what he was going through,。
I quickly learned that this girl。
had become an idol in her life.。
He had given the enemy a seat at the table of his mind.。
It was as if Satan put him in a box。
and took all the air out,。
and he was suffocating in his mind.。
We're gonna learn about four things today。
as we talk about the battle of the mind.。
The first is Satan's tactics.。
Number two, the spiral of sin.。
Number three, Satan versus spirit.。
And number four, the solution to sin.。
Let's read together as we look at Genesis 3,。
where it all started.。
Let's read together, one, two, three.。
Now the serpent was more crafty。
than any other beast in the field.。
And the Lord had made.。
He said to the woman,。
"Did God actually say you shall not eat。
"from any tree in the garden?"。
And the woman said to the serpent,。
"You may eat of the fruit of the tree of the garden.。
"But God said, you shall not eat of the fruit of the tree。
"that is in the midst of the garden,。
"neither shall you touch it lest you die."。
But the servant said to the woman,。
"You will surely not die.。
"For God knows that when you eat of it,。
"your eyes will be opened and you will be like God,。
"knowing good and evil."。
So we see here in this story,。
Satan's first tactic.。
And his first tactic is to lure us in.。
And these are my friends from Missaga in Toronto,。
and they came to visit.。
I know he's a fisherman, right?。
He's a fisherman.。
And what do you use as bait for a fisherman?。
What do you use?。
Worms or something really shiny and colorful.。
And it makes the fish feel as if it's a free lunch, right?。
Who likes free lunches?。
It depends who's paying, right?。
Depends who's paying, be careful.。
You got lured in already.。
Satan doesn't come in, knock on your door and say,。
"Hey, good afternoon.。
"This is what I want to tempt you with.。
"Number one, number two, number three, number four."。
He doesn't.。
He slides in through the side door when you're not looking.。
He slips in some thought, some temptation in your heart.。
And he lures and entices you just like fishing.。
The fishermen never advertise the hook.。
They only advertise the bait.。
They only advertise the bait.。
And we see here in this first story,。
Satan questions Eve's thinking.。
Did God really say you can't eat of it?。
Did God really say?。
And then he goes on to say, "Surely you won't die.。
"In fact, your eyes would be opened.。
"Your eyes would be opened."。
And that's what happens with Satan.。
He lures us in, makes it look as if there is no harm.。
And we've already begun the spiral of sin.。
Sin usually starts with a cause.。
Maybe we are weak in the flesh.。
We have a certain desire for chocolate,。
a certain desire for junk food.。
It could be other sins, a desire, a greed for money.。
Hong Kong struggles with a lot of greed.。
It could be lust, could be a number of things,。
the weakness of the flesh.。
The cause could be boredom.。
Just, you know, I'm bored, nothing to do.。
And all of a sudden, Satan slips through the side door.。
It could be something else.。
It could be we're going through something.。
Loneliness, depression, loss.。
We need something to fill that void in our heart.。
The cause occurs, and then the enemy is right there.。
And he lures us in, and he says,。
"This will satisfy your need.。
"Take a bite.。
"You'll be happy."。
The enemy always knows what we are struggling with.。
Are struggling with.。
We see the example of Jesus as well.。
The devil gives a thought,。
and we have a choice to entertain or discard.。
The devil said to Jesus, "If you are the son of God,。
"command these stones to become bread."。
Jesus was really hungry.。
40 days, hunger.。
And yet Jesus did not entertain the devil's thoughts.。
The devil said, "I will give you all of this,。
"all of these things,。
"if you worship me."。
The lust of the eyes, window shopping.。
We want what we see.。
The devil was trying to tempt Jesus。
through the lust of the eyes.。
And lastly, "If you are the son of God, throw yourself down."。
Jesus was challenging,。
the devil was challenging Jesus' authority。
and how he would go against God.。
It starts in our thoughts,。
the battle of the mind.。
And every time the devil said something,。
Jesus discarded what the devil said.。
And in fact, what did he do?。
He used scripture to counteract what the devil had done.。
Our thoughts often lead towards actions.。
If we're thinking about it,。
what are you guys thinking about now?。
What are you guys thinking about?。
Is it what you're gonna have for dinner?。
I just thought about it actually.。
(laughing)。
If we're thinking about it, yeah,。
I see some people thinking about it, yeah.。
Thinking about what restaurant,。
should I go on Eat A Go?。
Are there any deals out?。
What's open?。
What time is it?。
Will I make it in time?。
And then you start to do the action, right?。
Hey, let's go, come on, let's go, let's go.。
I'm hungry, I'm feeling this.。
Are you feeling it?。
Our thoughts lead to action.。
We start thinking about adultery。
and then we start thinking,。
oh, maybe adultery isn't so bad.。
We're willing to conclude that adultery might help us.。
Adultery might be beneficial.。
Adultery opens doors for us.。
It's the solution to our marital problems.。
All these are lies, every single one of them,。
the battle of the mind.。
And why is sin so tempting for us?。
Why is sin so tempting for us?。
Because it feels, it feels good.。
How long does it feel good for?。
Very temporary.。
The feeling just lasts for a moment.。
In Proverbs 14, it says,。
"There's a way of life that looks harmless enough,。
but then look again, it leads straight to hell."。
It leads straight to hell.。
Sinful pleasures are not lasting pleasures.。
Sinful pleasures do not honor God.。
Sinful pleasures don't provide peace or fulfillment.。
They're good for a second and then it's gone.。
Eve was eating this apple or this fruit.。
And as soon as she felt that fruit go down her throat,。
she had committed sin against God.。
And she quickly realized that she had committed sin。
and shame started to set in.。
We see in this spiral of sin, what happened with Eve.。
She had a cause.。
What do you think her cause was?。
Why did she, what do you think her cause was?。
I think maybe it would have been curiosity。
or maybe rebellion.。
The thought of being curious or rebellion。
led Eve towards letting Satan talk to her.。
And tempt her.。
Did God really say this?。
And so she touched the fruit and she saw it was good.。
It looked good.。
And so she went and ate of the fruit.。
And it says in, let's read it actually.。
"So when the woman saw the tree was good for fruit。
and that it was delightful to the eyes。
and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise,。
she took of its fruit and ate it.。
And she also gave some to her husband who also ate it.。
Then the eyes of both of them were opened。
and they knew that they were naked.。
And they sewed fig leaves together。
and made themselves lion's cloth."。
Satan's tactic number two is this.。
First, he lures you in.。
It looks good.。
It feels good.。
No one will be harmed.。
And then as soon as you eat of its fruit,。
as soon as you're tempted by sin and you sin,。
the enemy starts to condemn you.。
Condemn you.。
You're a failure.。
You're hopeless.。
You did wrong again.。
God hates you.。
You're useless.。
You're an idiot.。
You're done.。
God is angry with you.。
The battle of the mind.。
I think the first time I remember God,。
this happening to me was,。
well, I shared this story before。
and I'll just quickly recap it.。
I was shooting elastic bands when I was young.。
You know, shooting people.。
Who likes shooting elastic bands,。
threatening to shoot at people?。
Yeah, I like shooting.。
And apparently I was really good at it when I was young.。
And this newcomer kid who was probably like eight or 10。
or something like that,。
he came and we were shooting each other.。
And apparently I had nothing on my face。
or arms or anything,。
but he had some red marks show up on his arms。
and maybe his face or something.。
So I was really good at shooting.。
Apparently, you know, my parents missed out.。
They should have, you know,。
put me into Olympics for sharp shooting or something.。
They should have known back then, you know.。
But I got in so much trouble。
'cause this kid was new, right?。
And this kid was new and his sister brought him。
for the first time to church.。
And the pastor's son shoots the kid。
and there's red marks all over his face, right?。
And so how do you think I would feel?。
Well, I was probably crying.。
I was like devastated.。
I was like, "Oh no, this kid will never go to church again.。
"It's all 'cause of me and he won't like God."。
And I was so sad.。
And I was crying and my parents were, you know,。
kind of mad and angry.。
And then what happened was this.。
I felt I needed to hide。
'cause I was ashamed.。
I'd done something wrong.。
And my feeling was this,。
that I've done something so bad。
that my parents,。
my parents don't love me anymore.。
My parents don't want me anymore.。
I've not only destroyed my parents,。
but I've destroyed their reputation.。
I've destroyed their church.。
You see how it spirals?。
Me shooting this kid with elastic bands。
and having them red marks, I've destroyed my parents.。
I've destroyed their church.。
They can't be pastors anymore.。
And it's because of me.。
And I hid, I hid.。
I hid maybe for half an hour or, you know, an hour.。
And finally my parents called out.。
They're like, "Johnny, where are you?。
"Johnny, where are you?"。
Just like, you know, God in the Garden of Eden.。
And I came out and I pushed my dad.。
I pushed him.。
I was like, "Les mûrs, you don't want me anymore."。
You imagine just like an eight-year-old kid,。
you know, pushing Pastor John, right?。
And my dad was like,。
"When did I ever say that I never wanted you?"。
And that moment, it exposed the lies。
that were happening in my head.。
I had given the enemy a seat in the table of my mind.。
And it was brewing, right?。
From I've done something wrong。
to I've destroyed my parents' reputation。
to I've destroyed the church。
to my parents will never be pastors。
in this church ever again.。
This kid will never come to church.。
He'll never love Jesus.。
He'll never go to heaven.。
All these things were spiraling。
because I've let the enemy a seat at the table of my mind.。
And that's what Satan does.。
He condemns you.。
You've done this wrong.。
God doesn't like you.。
You've done this wrong.。
People hate you.。
He condemns.。
And condemnation is out of what?。
Is done out of hatred.。
But the spirit doesn't do this.。
The spirit convicts.。
And conviction comes out of a source of love.。
The spirit convicts us out of a source of love.。
Louis Giglio says this,。
"Condemnation comes from guilt.。
"Conviction is born out of grace.。
"Condemnation leads you to conceal your sin.。
"Conviction urges you to confess it.。
"Condemnation results in remorse.。
"Conviction calls you to repentance.。
"Condemnation prompts you to rededicate.。
"Conviction demands full surrender.。
"Condemnation is a path to future failure.。
"Conviction is a highway to real change."。
Real change.。
When Jesus was about to go,。
he promised that the spirit would come.。
And the spirit, when he comes,。
he will convict the world of its sin。
and of God's righteousness and his coming judgment.。
God convicts us.。
God disciplines the ones he loves.。
That's the difference.。
That's the difference.。
Yes, we will feel guilty.。
The Holy Spirit uses our guiltiness to sort of warn us,。
you know, like, this is, we're going down a bad way.。
Don't go there.。
We'll feel guilt.。
But after we've done this bad thing,。
if we continue to feel guilty and beat ourselves up,。
that's no longer from the spirit.。
It's from the devil.。
Beating us up in our mind, you're worthless.。
You're not good enough.。
God doesn't love you.。
Instead, you should listen to the spirit.。
God wants us to change.。
God is there for you.。
He's got your back.。
Jesus has died for your sins.。
There is hope.。
That is the Holy Spirit talking.。
Number four, the solution to sin.。
The solution to sin.。
How do we break this spiral of sin that we go through?。
Well, Louis says this, that we should firstly rededicate.。
And he sort of says, well, rededication is good.。
You know, we just came from several camps,。
Explorer Camp, Young Life Camp.。
And a lot of kids, you know, said, you know,。
I wanna dedicate my life to Jesus。
or rededicate myself to connect with Jesus.。
And that's awesome.。
But Louis says this, that the problem with rededication。
is that we keep having to do it.。
And it becomes habitual sin.。
We just keep falling over and over again.。
We fall, we confess, we rededicate.。
We fall, we confess, we rededicate.。
And it comes this cycle.。
And oftentimes, it feels hopeless.。
Louis says, it feels as if it's hopeless.。
Nothing's gonna change.。
Something's wrong with us or the gospel.。
It's not gonna work out.。
God didn't change me.。
Louis points out that this is the problem with rededicating.。
We just keep rededicating.。
We keep going through this cycle.。
So how do we break this cycle?。
What is the solution to sin?。
The first thing we need to do is we need to confess.。
And confess is agreeing with.。
And in this case, we are agreeing with God。
that we've gone the wrong way.。
As we go through this cycle of sin,。
we just need to confess.。
You know, as the enemy is tempting us,。
we need to just confess it.。
God, I have these thoughts.。
I don't want 'em.。
Please take 'em away.。
I confess them to you now.。
In the midst of this temptation,。
you just gotta say, God, I'm in this temptation.。
I confess this to you.。
Please help me in this situation now.。
The first thing we need to do is confess.。
And then the next thing is surrender.。
Surrender comes when we raise our hands and say,。
God, I can't do anything about this situation.。
But Jesus, you can.。
I'm not gonna hide anymore.。
I'm gonna open up my heart to your love and your solutions。
and trust the restoration work of the Holy Spirit.。
Surrender.。
I think over all these years, I've learned.。
I'm a person that is so determined sometimes.。
You know, when I put my mind to something,。
I wanna change it.。
I wanna do the best that I can, right?。
Whether it's competition in basketball。
or preparing for talks or something,。
I wanna do the best that I can.。
And I'm also a positive person.。
I'm a can-do attitude.。
That's why I can do all these different sports。
and connect with kids and, you know, do all these things.。
I believe I can do a lot of things.。
But in the midst of doing a lot of things,。
trying a lot of things, accomplishing a lot of things,。
I've also realized there are things。
that I can't change about myself.。
I have limitations.。
As much as I put effort and mental energy。
towards defeating sin, there are things about us。
that are so hard to change.。
And we can't do it on our own strength.。
'Cause if we could,。
we wouldn't need to rely on the Holy Spirit.。
And Paul even said, he had how many thorns?。
He had these thorns in his side,。
and he begged the Lord to take it away from him.。
And how did God respond?。
He said, "My grace is sufficient for you.。
"My power is made perfect in weakness."。
Surrender.。
As we surrender ourselves to the Lord。
in the midst of our sin,。
with things that we can't change about ourselves,。
we are connecting with the Holy Spirit。
and trusting and surrendering to him.。
The next slide is a cup.。
And I put this cup in because。
it's either you fill yourself with good things。
or you fill yourself with bad things.。
We are all filled by something.。
We're all filled by something.。
And Paul says this, Apostle Paul, not this Paul,。
but I'm sure he'll say it too.。
Whatever is good, whatever is beautiful,。
whatever is beautiful, amazing, good,。
think about these things.。
Fill your heart, fill your mind with the goodness of God.。
If you're filled with the goodness of God,。
what room is there in this cup?。
What room is there in this cup。
for temptation and for Satan to come?。
And that is why it's so important。
to allow the word of God to cleanse your mind,。
to sanctify your mind on a daily basis.。
'Cause we're so bombarded。
with our a thousand notifications a day,。
with advertisements everywhere,。
our friends talking, the news talking.。
And it's all this junk filling our minds。
consciously or subconsciously.。
And our cup is just so dirty.。
What will we fill our cup with?。
Is it the goodness of God。
or is it the lies of the enemy?。
I'm talking about my friend Jay again.。
So he's going through depression.。
He had broken up with his girlfriend.。
He even was like, I should just hurt myself。
so that I could get my girlfriend's attention.。
And I remember just like a period of months,。
I would just be checking in on him every day.。
I was like, hey, how are you doing?。
You doing well?。
Are you able to trust God more with your thoughts?。
Are you able to lay this down。
and give God, you know,。
let God fill this emptiness in your heart?。
And every day, I remember it was months.。
And it seemed like we weren't going anywhere.。
It seemed like it was hopeless.。
He wasn't changing.。
He was still depressed.。
He was still, you know, thinking about hurting himself.。
And he kept seeing his girlfriend at university.。
And it was just like,。
these things would go over in his mind。
over and over again.。
And then something happened.。
He started reading the Bible on a daily basis.。
And things started to change.。
Instead of filling his glass with his own thoughts,。
with his own desires, with the desires of the flesh,。
he started to fill his cup with the word of God.。
And he started to trust the Lord more and more.。
And there was a period where I saw that change.。
And he was no longer thinking about hurting himself.。
He started thinking about the things of God.。
Instead of thinking about who you're gonna call next。
on this phone,。
he started thinking about how God is calling him。
to do amazing things.。
There was a perspective change as he filled his cup。
and surrendered his life to the Lord.。
And now where is he?。
He's out connecting with people, telling them about Jesus.。
He's promoting, you know, church events to people.。
He surrendered to the Holy Spirit。
and being empowered by the Holy Spirit to do amazing things.。
From a kid who was depressed, wanting to hurt himself,。
girlfriend was the idol to a person。
who had committed his life to Jesus.。
And is now being empowered by the Holy Spirit.。
In 1 Corinthians 10, verse 14, it says this,。
"No temptation has overtaken you。
"except what is common to mankind.。
"God is faithful.。
"He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear.。
"But when you are tempted,。
"he will also provide a way out so that you can endure it."。
This is the promise of God.。
God, He will provide a way.。
He's got your back.。
Trust Him, surrender yourself to Him。
in the midst of temptation, in the midst of sin.。
Win the battle of the mind.。
Don't let the enemy have a seat at your table.。
So confess, surrender.。
The last thing is accountability.。
It says in James chapter five, verse 16,。
"Therefore confess your sins to each other。
"and pray for each other that you may be healed."。
There's something powerful。
in confessing our sins to each other。
as we keep each other accountable.。
Just like what Christina just said.。
You're checking your scuba diving equipment.。
When you're rock climbing,。
you're checking your harnesses and the knots and everything.。
You're checking each other.。
'Cause if you don't check it, something bad's gonna happen.。
Accountability.。
God created us to be in a community,。
to be in a family, to be in a fellowship,。
'cause we are stronger when we are together.。
And we have accountability.。
And that is the third solution to sin.。
I'm gonna invite the band to come up.。
And we're gonna respond in a song.。
And it's called "Lord, I Need You."。
And this applies to everybody in this room.。
Whether we're going through a really big sin。
or just small sin or something we're struggling with,。
we all need Jesus.。
We need to surrender ourselves to Him,。
confess our sins, surrender ourselves to Him,。
and to know that He will give us a way out.。
He has a solution, and He gave us the ultimate solution.。
And that is Jesus Christ on the cross.。
Let's pray together.。
Heavenly Father, we confess that we have gone our own way.。
We confess that we have sinned.。
We have fallen short.。
We have missed the mark.。
And Lord, we wanna surrender ourselves to you.。
And we ask that Lord,。
your Holy Spirit would be sanctifying us,。
making us more like you.。
Bless us, Lord, as we surrender ourselves into your hands.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
