I want to ask you a question.。
What gets you up in the morning?。
When a job interviewer asks you that question, what gets you up in the morning?。
You might be thinking to yourself, coffee.。
But that, according to experts, is the wrong answer.。
Interviewers who ask this question are looking to see what fuels your everyday life.。
We all have something that motivates us.。
And they are looking for you to help them understand what it is for you exactly.。
Researchers tell us the five best answers are, "What gets me up in the morning is the。
opportunity to learn something new."。
Or "What gets me up in the morning is the ability to make mistakes."。
Or "What gets me up in the morning is the ability to work with a team."。
What gets me up in the morning is the opportunity to compete.。
I love friendly competition.。
And lastly, what gets me up in the morning is the notion that every day is a brand new。
day to grow.。
Now if you're about to go for a job interview, take your phone out, do a screenshot.。
These are the right answers.。
But what gets me up in the morning is to be part of building the kingdom of God.。
Now that might sound a little bit weird or specific, but that one statement contains。
all the things that are dear to me, specifically the unity of God's church.。
I've been in this role here at KFCI for almost six years now.。
It's gone quickly, eh?。
And when people ask me why I took this position, my answer is simple, bridge building.。
In my 35 years in Hong Kong, I have witnessed so much division in the body of Christ.。
Denomination against denomination.。
Edges between Protestants and Catholics.。
Charismatics and evangelicals.。
International and local churches.。
Christians are wasting more energy fighting each other than fighting the real enemy.。
I've seen church splits and some people who seem to change church more often than they。
change their toothpaste.。
And to be honest, you can hear it in my tone of voice.。
It makes me sick.。
Which is why I prefer to build bridges and tear down walls rather than the other way。
round.。
I just wish people would see through the lens of the kingdom.。
There is one kingdom and there is one King.。
My job, my calling, my passion is kingdom building.。
Now you might say, surely, isn't it as a pastor to build the church?。
And you'd have a point.。
The church was precious to Jesus and it's precious to me.。
The church is precious to me and that's why we're having this series.。
But in that, I am guided by the words of Jesus.。
Matthew 6, 33, I'll put it on the screen, you know it.。
But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and all these things will be。
added to you.。
This is slap bang in the middle of the sermon of the mount as Jesus encourages His followers。
not to worry about the things of this world.。
Verse 31, asks some important questions.。
So do not worry saying, what should we eat?。
I bet some of you are thinking already, what am I going to eat for dinner tonight?。
I know.。
What should we eat?。
What should we drink?。
What should we wear?。
What Jesus was saying is do not equate your life to the level of the Hang Seng Index or。
the latest pair of sneakers, Johnny.。
Or the good looking guy or girl you've got your eyes on.。
We are to be kingdom seekers.。
That means submitting to the King, doing the will of the King and making Christ the King。
your first priority.。
But look at this.。
Jesus told Peter after Peter had declared that Jesus was the Messiah in Matthew 16.。
Jesus said this, "I will build my church."。
I will build my church.。
We've spent six weeks together on church together, looking at the early church and what it means。
to be a church together.。
We've looked at being steeped in the word of God, in prayer, in hospitality and community.。
And we have demonstrated them too.。
Who could forget James's amazing recital of the book of Philippians?。
The yummy dinner.。
And Johnny going around not with a glass of sake, but the whole bottle, you know.。
The moving group prayer that we had that week.。
And the need for a Paul, a Timothy and a Barnabas.。
We found the church that Jesus built still to be alive and ready to move forward in these。
challenging times.。
Let's face it, they are.。
Soon after Jesus died and rose from the dead, He did exactly that.。
He built His church and He has been building it since.。
And yet the danger of so many of us, and dare I say, especially us pastors, is for us to。
fall into the trap of believing it's our church.。
I know this.。
Look, when I ask people, I say, "What church do you attend?"。
They sometimes answer, "Oh, so-and-so's church."。
So-and-so being the name of the pastor.。
And I say, "So-and-so doesn't have a church."。
And we've been looking these past six weeks at what it means to be Christ's church.。
The one He birthed on the day of Pentecost.。
And what I need to do tonight is really look at these five words closely.。
I will build my church.。
In fact, just to wake you up, let's say it all together, shall we?。
One, two, three.。
I will build my church.。
Ten out of ten.。
Well done.。
Now, the first word, "I."。
Maybe you could miss it.。
It marks Christ's lordship.。
The first word in this statement is "I."。
This marks the unique position of Christ as Lord.。
Nobody else is in a position to say what follows this "I."。
Jesus is the only rightful founder and head of the church.。
Not you or me or someone else, no matter how eminent they are.。
It's the same "I" as in "I am the way, the truth, and the life."。
Who else can say that?。
The second word, "will."。
It marks Christ's authority.。
When Jesus says, "will," He expresses His authority.。
He says this in Matthew 28, 18.。
It's at the end of the Great Commission, isn't it?。
That Jesus came to them and said, "All authority on heaven and on earth has been given to me."。
His will is supreme, except for the will of His Father.。
Again, I'm speaking somewhat harshly, yet I hope appropriately.。
It's surprising how many believers in Christ proceed according to what pleases them.。
We're building a consumer culture into the church without bothering to ask if it pleases。
Christ and seeking their master's authority.。
Whatever is not according to His will is contrary to it.。
The third word, "build," marks Christ's work.。
When Jesus says, "build," He expresses His work.。
In the book of John, He says this, "My food is to do the will of the one who sent me to。
finish His work."。
He then goes on to say, "My Father is at work until now, so I am at work."。
My friends, promoting a dogma, a doctrine, a denomination is not the work of Jesus Christ.。
Only in helping to build the church Christ died for are we doing Christ's work.。
The fourth word, "my," indicates Christ's possession.。
The church's one foundation is Jesus Christ.。
I want to read it to you from Corinthians.。
No man can lay a foundation other than the one who has been laid, which is Jesus Christ.。
The church is His bride whom He loves.。
She belongs to no other.。
Ephesians 5, we have this at weddings sometimes, "Christ loved the church and gave Himself。
up for her."。
And lastly, number five, "church," marks Christ's call.。
When Jesus says, "church," He expresses His call to the world.。
Jesus calls everyone to His one true church.。
The called out people, the Bible calls them the Ekklesia.。
2 Timothy 1 says, "God has saved us and called us with a holy calling."。
That's the only way that we are being made into a true church.。
KFCI.。
In every word of that statement, I will build my church.。
We are brought to the realisation that Christ's church is what we should be restoring and。
establishing in the world.。
It is Christ's church that we have been discussing for six weeks, and it is Christ's church that。
is to be prayer-centred, Word-rooted, hospitality-driven, and community-based.。
Because when these things are present, there is a result.。
And what a result it is.。
The result is we grow.。
We read, didn't we hear, verse 44, "The church was unified, the church was magnified, and。
then the church multiplied."。
It had a powerful testimony amongst the unsaved Jews, not only because of the miracles done。
by the apostles, which are in verse 43, but also by the way the members of the fellowship。
loved each other and served the Lord.。
I tell you ladies, if I'd walked into the YMCA this morning when you were having sisterhood。
and I was a lady from outside the church and I could see the way that you were relating。
to each other and loved each other, as a lady I would say, "What's going on?"。
I want part of that.。
If you were taking your dog for a walk down Repulse Bay Beach this morning and you happened。
to witness the baptism, you'd say, "What's going on?"。
But really the love that we show for each other is the most important thing.。
That's why we've been talking about community.。
That's why we've been talking about hospitality.。
That's why Agnes came and gave us that testimony about inviting friends around her table.。
The risen Lord continued to work with them and people continued to be saved.。
I mean, what a church.。
The Christians you meet in the book of Acts were not content to meet once a week for services。
as usual.。
They met daily, they cared daily, they won souls daily, they searched the scriptures。
daily and increased in number daily.。
And it was not a five minute wonder.。
It was not the flavour of the month.。
Even if we dive forward into Paul's missionary journeys before he received what we call his。
Macedonian call to go to Europe.。
We read this in Acts 16, 5.。
So the churches were strengthened in the faith and grew daily in numbers.。
Their Christian faith was a day to day reality, not a once a week routine.。
Why?。
Because the risen Christ was a living reality to them and his resurrection power was at。
work in their lives through his spirit.。
Let me explore this a little bit more as I finish Acts 2.。
A chapter, if you remember when we started off, when the day of Pentecost came, they。
were all together in one place.。
Do you remember that?。
The final verses say this.。
Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles, praising。
God and enjoying the favour of all the people.。
And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved.。
I want to highlight three outcomes in these verses.。
First is we read everyone was filled with awe.。
I was actually going to use the word fear because the word for awe in verse 33 is a。
Greek word, it's phobos, which can mean fear, terror or reverence.。
We get our English word phobia from it.。
But fear definitely has a double meaning.。
I think so much of Hong Kong at the moment is gripped in fear.。
For example, we are encouraged to fear God.。
Fearing the Lord means to be in reverent awe of his holiness, to give him complete reverence。
and to honour him as the God of great glory, majesty and purity.。
Now note this, the early church took seriously the command to lay hands on the sick.。
And we read that they saw many signs and wonders.。
The modern church would do well to do the same, remembering that we don't heal anyone.。
I've never healed anyone.。
We pray God heals if he chooses to.。
If we pray for 99 people and nobody gets healed, what do we do?。
We pray for number 100.。
But the reality is the more we pray, the more miracles and healings we see.。
And that was certainly the case for the axe church, which is why Luke said everyone was。
filled with awe, which leads to my second F, which is favour.。
Verse 47 said that they enjoy favour, which actually is the same word as the word used。
for grace.。
People were amazed and favourable towards them.。
This should be the result of our witness, that people praise God and have favour towards。
the church.。
I remember leading a mission team in Bacolod in the Philippines in the 90s with ICM.。
We came to the house of a middle-aged man called Ignacio.。
Sandra remember this very well.。
She was blind due to a terrible motorcycle accident.。
The motorcycle exploded and it had burnt most of his skin.。
I wouldn't show you a picture because it was horrible.。
Our team prayed for him and by the grace of God, his eyesight was partially restored.。
He started to see things that he hadn't seen since his tragic accident.。
And after that, his eyesight continued to improve and he now lives and ministers in。
a mountain area in a colder climate.。
The thing was, it wasn't even me that prayed, but two or three members of our youth group.。
But the result mirrored Acts 2 and left everyone praising God and adding so much favour to。
ICM and their wonderful work in the slums in the Philippines.。
This brings out an important lesson.。
We are not to seek man's praises, but always point to the almighty God.。
But as we do so, the church should be looked upon with favour.。
But the best result of all and the best F of all is faith.。
Every day, more and more people were coming to faith in Christ and joining the church。
family.。
The result of this church family studying the scriptures together, doing life together,。
sharing meals and communion together, praying together.。
Is there something so unique, distinct and wonderful about them that others can't help。
come to faith in Christ?。
We heard this in the testimonies this morning at the baptisms.。
They could not help come to faith in Christ because of what they saw.。
Now it's not that they don't evangelise and witness.。
They do.。
But how they live positively influences their witness.。
I listened to one pastor this week.。
His name is Skip Heidzik, believe it or not.。
He said, "Our withness aids our witness."。
I'll say it again.。
Our withness aids our witness.。
My earnest prayer for KFCI is this.。
That we would become, that we would be known as a kingdom church.。
And in that connection, I want to just share some of the things which are on our heart,。
which will be happening in the next few months.。
I hope you'll get excited about this.。
The first thing is family, church is family.。
And I'm pleased to announce that from September, we're going to have a family gathering every。
day hosted by James and Christine and the family, Joe and Alex and others.。
Because it's very difficult on a Saturday afternoon.。
Have you noticed we don't have kids here, right?。
So what we're going to be doing in September is we're going to be starting a family expression.。
We don't know where that's going to go.。
We hope it may become eventually a service or something like that.。
But at the moment, it's a pop-up shop, right?。
We're going to start in September hosting a family gathering on Sundays for people with。
family, because families are important.。
When we started this church, it was nearly all young people, but the young people are。
getting older, they're getting married and they're having families and we're changing,。
right?。
And it's good.。
We want to be able to cope with the emerging market that's within us.。
So I am, I tell you what, I am so excited about this.。
You would not believe it.。
I know I get excited about a lot, but I'm so excited about this.。
If you'd like to know a lot more, go and speak to Bonnie or contact James and Christine,。
go to the welcome counter.。
But we are going to be doing this as a church and it's part of who we are.。
You say, "Oh, what happens about James preaching on a Saturday?"。
Well, James is going to be preaching at least every six weeks on a Saturday as well.。
So we're not going to be losing James, okay?。
He's going to be doing this as well.。
I don't know how he fits it all in 24 hours, but that's another thing.。
The next thing is this is going to really excite you.。
It's what I call 5G, raising up the next generation of preachers.。
You know, I'm getting old, right?。
And I'm not going to be here forever, but actually we've got people in this congregation。
who are not pastors, who actually we're going to give an opportunity to preach the Word。
of God.。
And we did it last year and the next slide will show you what we're going to do.。
This is really going to excite you.。
Next week, Bonnie will be preaching.。
She's going to have more people here than I am.。
I know that, right?。
I mean, the place is going to be packed, right?。
I know that.。
But Bonnie is going to draw these six weeks together and preach a sermon that she's done。
for her master's course.。
She's studying master's in theology at the moment.。
And she's got to...。
Look, I've got one advantage over you.。
I've seen it.。
This is going to be a great sermon.。
So please, next week, come out in force.。
Bonnie is going to be preaching on the 25th of June, next Saturday, at White Church.。
I'm excited.。
And then a couple of weeks after, I'm going to talk a little bit about faith and work。
in a moment.。
But Anthony has been working with me as an intern this year.。
He's finishing off his master's in Dallas this year.。
And his speciality is faith in the workplace and linking them up.。
And Antony and I are going to do a two-part series.。
So I'll do the first part and Antony will do the second part.。
So Antony will be preaching here on July the 9th.。
I just really want to encourage you, anyone who wants to know about what it is to be a。
Christian at work is there.。
And then after that, we're going to be doing a series in Ecclesiastes.。
It's a 12-week series.。
And I'm pleased to say that we've got Gabe, who's going to be talking.。
He's got the best chapter in Ecclesiastes 3.。
Go home and read it.。
It's amazing.。
And then Paul's going to be preaching.。
Now, Gabe and Paul both preached last year.。
They both knocked it out the park.。
Now why are we doing this?。
Because to us, raising up the next generation is important.。
It's more important for us than to have the pastor up here every week or to have a guest。
speaker every other week.。
We really want to do this.。
So please get behind this.。
We've got four of our people at the moment.。
If you think you should be G5, come and see me.。
And we'll keep doing it.。
The next one relates to our talk with Anthony.。
You know, for six weeks now, we've said numbers are being added daily.。
And no one's really said, "Well, where do I go daily?"。
It's not here.。
It's to your workplace.。
And Anthony and I have a real heart.。
There are people in this church like David Wong and others who have a real heart for。
faith and the workplace.。
So we'll be doing a two-week series after this series, actually looking at faith in。
the workplace.。
And I think you'll be very, very encouraged to that.。
And we're going to pray for all of you in your jobs.。
You know, we really want to encourage you as workplace ministers.。
Next thing is church with a mission.。
And obviously, we want to continue doing local mission trips.。
This year has been mainly local mission trips, you know, with feeding the poor and the masks。
and the rat tests and things like that.。
We want to continue doing that.。
I don't know how Philippines got up there, but we'll start an overseas mission trip as。
soon as we possibly can.。
And Johnny's just waiting to go.。
His leg's tapping already to go.。
That's why he's in the picture.。
Alpha course in the...。
I was just going to say, if any of you saw that baptism today and said, "How do I get。
baptized?"。
Go on the next alpha course.。
That's the way to start, right?。
So we're doing that in the autumn.。
And one thing, if I can mention, Julia has committed herself to KFCI.。
Julia is also a missionary and minister.。
She has a real heart for domestic helpers.。
And she said to me and Sandra, she said, "I want to come to KFCI on Saturdays because。
I want to keep my Sundays free for going out and ministering to the Filipino helpers."。
So it registered with us.。
Michelle's got behind it.。
So we're actually going to be looking at how we can reach out to this side of society that。
a lot of Hong Kong society ignores.。
So really watch this space.。
If you've got a heart for a minister, go and see Julia afterwards.。
She said, "Wave your hand, Julia," at the back afterwards.。
And we'll do this.。
But these are...。
I just want to get you excited about what we're doing.。
We're building a kingdom.。
But I want to ask you to be part of this.。
You know, I want to challenge you.。
I want to challenge you to be a kingdom builder.。
The beauty about the church in Acts, there's no superstar preacher or pastor or evangelist。
or there's no Joseph Prince or Brian Houston or anyone in the book of Acts.。
Time after time in the book of Acts, we use the word "they" or "all" or "every one of them."。
Church is not a place for passengers or observers.。
I'll say that again.。
I believe this intently.。
This church is not a church for passengers or observers.。
You can come once and have a look, but no, seriously.。
I want every one of you, every one of you to join me in building the kingdom.。
And I want you to do it right here and right now.。
Let's stop playing church.。
Let's get serious and build the kingdom.。
And I'm going to invite Michelle to come forward because she's going to do a little exercise。
with you that I think you'll enjoy very, very much.。
So all over to you, Michelle.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
