(silence)。
Father, we thank you.。
We thank you because you are here with us.。
We thank you that you are constantly working,。
even when we don't see it or don't feel it.。
Lord, would you be here tonight and move in our hearts?。
We thank you that Pastors John and Sandra。
have arrived in London safely.。
We pray for the next few months, Lord,。
that it would be filled with you, filled with you,。
and that you would refresh them and restore them as well.。
We also remember on this day, September 11th,。
just 20 years ago, Lord, when we were reminded。
of the depravity of man, the brokenness of this world,。
the darkness that surrounds us.。
And we pray, we pray, Lord, that you,。
the light of the world, will shine your light。
into the darkness and that you would give us hope。
and that you would bring hope to each and every one。
in this world.。
And it's in your name we pray, amen.。
Do you remember where you were 20 years ago,。
September 11th?。
Some of you maybe were not born yet.。
(audience laughing)。
Maybe, oh, I remember it well, in the womb of my mother.。
I remember, I was, I guess I was 15.。
I was 15 and it was, just after school,。
for me in England, my family had travelled。
to New York the summer before.。
And I remember just coming from England.。
England, we don't really have tall towers.。
And seeing the World Trade Center was the tallest。
of them all in my eyes.。
And I just remember just completely just overwhelmed。
by just, wow, the creation of man,。
how incredible man is.。
And I remember just opposite the World Trade Center,。
there was a great department store called Century 21.。
Those of you who are Americans would know that.。
Great bargain deals.。
And yeah, and then that day happened.。
I remember being at home, we'd just got home from school。
and just hearing about it.。
And just going, what on earth is happening?。
And then the next day we got to school,。
I heard that one of my friends,。
his father was actually in the building.。
And then, you know what?。
And this is where I feel bad.。
I remember feeling like, oh my goodness,。
my friend's dad is there.。
And then I don't remember anymore.。
I don't remember asking anymore.。
And I can only imagine what happened to my friend's life。
at that moment, but as a young teenager,。
it just completely flew by.。
And it made me question, though.。
It made me question back then.。
And for those of you who may be too young,。
just to give you a bit of a picture,。
it was a nightmare of a few weeks.。
It was a terrible time.。
Back then, there was racism, there was terrorism,。
there was violence, there was persecution.。
Yeah, it's about the same as now.。
And I remember asking the question,。
and actually, it ended up not being me。
that asked it properly.。
It was the great theologian, Will.i.am,。
and the Black Eyed Peas.。
They ended up penning a song in response。
to the incidents of 9/11.。
And what was the song called?。
Does anyone know?。
Where is the Love?。
One of my favourite songs.。
My brother and I would use to rap it,。
and we would know all the lyrics.。
In fact, I think I still remember some of the lyrics.。
My favourite verse was the third verse.。
I feel the weight of the world on my shoulders.。
As I'm getting older, people get colder.。
Most of us only care about money-making.。
Selfishness got us following in the wrong direction.。
Wrong information always shown by the media.。
Negative images is the main criteria.。
Kids want to act like what they see in the cinema.。
Something else, something else, something else.。
Whatever happened to the values of humanity?。
Whatever happened to the fairness in equality?。
Instead of spreading love, we're spreading animosity.。
Lack of understanding leading us away from unity.。
That's the reason why sometimes I'm feeling under.。
That's the reason why sometimes I'm feeling down.。
That's the reason why sometimes I'm feeling under.。
Gotta keep my faith alive till love is found.。
So where is the love?。
And I want to bring that up today,。
because that's the question of today.。
Where is the love?。
Seemingly all those things that happened 20 years ago。
are happening right now.。
And that's the question I wanted to focus on。
in the passage that Carmen so beautifully read,。
finished with this verse in verse five。
that I really wanted to focus the most on today.。
But before that, there's a question that I wanted to ask。
that builds on where is the love.。
And for me, the question that has been on my heart。
these last few weeks is where is the church?。
As the world is tearing apart,。
as globalisation shrunk the world,。
but now we are almost even more distanced from each other,。
where is the church?。
What should the church be doing?。
Where are we?。
We as the church, how should we be living?。
But yet, as the world is tearing itself apart,。
I've got to say, sometimes the church。
is constantly tearing itself apart as well.。
And then I'm wondering, what good are we?。
Where is the love in the church?。
And this is where we come to the word of God。
and we humble ourselves before the word of God。
because we say, God, we don't know.。
We've tried.。
We think we know.。
We think we've developed wisdom,。
but the wisdom of man is still nothing。
and is still compared, is foolishness compared to God.。
And then we ask ourselves, so how should we do church?。
And then I look into the word。
and I go into this book of Timothy.。
This book of Timothy, which was written by Paul。
probably in the 80s, 60s.。
And he wrote two letters to Timothy,。
one Timothy, two Timothy,。
and he wrote one to Titus as well.。
These were his young mentees and he was writing them。
and they're called the pastoral letters,。
the pastoral epistles.。
And really what one Timothy and two Timothy are about are,。
it's a church handbook.。
It's a church handbook and it's telling Timothy。
how to lead the church.。
What should the church look like?。
And it deals with very important topics.。
Now, you won't hear Timothy preach in church that often。
because it has topics that most of us preachers。
sometimes would like to avoid.。
It talks about money, it talks about sex,。
it talks about gender roles, it talks about authority.。
And yet I feel deeply on my heart。
as we ask the same question。
that Will.i.am asked 20 years ago,。
that we also need to turn it on ourselves。
and ask ourselves that question,。
where is the love?。
Where is the church?。
Where is the love in the church?。
And so we look at this book。
and we ask ourselves, God, show us,。
not just for KFCI, but for Kung Fu,。
not just for Kung Fu, but for the church of Hong Kong,。
not just for the church of Hong Kong,。
but for the church of the world.。
What does the church have to say in a time like this?。
And as we go through these few months,。
we're gonna go through one and two, Timothy,。
that's my encouragement to you.。
Ask yourself that question.。
Where is the church?。
And is there love in the church?。
Surely that's the one thing we should be known by.。
You look at Jesus in John 13,。
he says, I'm gonna give you a new commandment.。
If you forget everything else,。
I want you to remember what?。
Love one another.。
He prays in John 17, Lord, would they just be as one?。
Would they love each other?。
It's because only when they do,。
only when they are together and in harmony,。
will the world believe in me.。
And then Jesus sums up the whole of God's command。
in Matthew 22.。
Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and mind,。
and love your neighbour as yourself.。
Love, love, love.。
It's not just the black-eyed bees.。
It's not just the Beatles.。
It's everything.。
Love is the beginning and end of everything.。
And this is where we land on the verse。
that I'm gonna be focusing on today.。
1 Timothy 1, verse five says this.。
The aim of our charge is love,。
but issues from a pure heart,。
a good conscience, and a sincere faith.。
That's it.。
You see, as we look at scripture,。
Paul's gonna tell Timothy a whole ton of stuff.。
But he starts by saying, hey, as I charge,。
and he's gonna charge Timothy with a lot of things,。
not charge in the sense that Timothy's guilty。
and he's being charged, but he commands Timothy.。
He charges him to uphold truth.。
He charges him to serve.。
He charges him to lead.。
And as he charges him with all these different things,。
he says, the aim of our charge is love,。
that issues from a pure heart,。
a good conscience, and a sincere faith.。
And I wanted just to crack that open a little bit.。
What does that actually mean?。
What is the aim of our charge?。
What's the point of it?。
So there's two things I wanna do this evening.。
One is I wanna set the scene.。
As we look into 1 and 2 Timothy, I wanna set the scene.。
That's number one.。
And the second thing I wanna do is to set the goal,。
set the scene, and set the goal.。
Is that good?。
Are you tracking with me?。
So from here, first of all,。
I will start with setting the scene.。
Paul writes this letter to Timothy around the AD 60s.。
Let me tell you a little bit about Timothy.。
Timothy was actually a fascinating person for me.。
He's writing to Timothy right now,。
and Timothy is around my age, okay, 21.。
Okay, oh.。
You know what, you guys didn't laugh,。
which means you may have believed it.。
Wow.。
Vincent, welcome back.。
So he's writing to Timothy, he's about in his mid-30s,。
but he met Timothy a bit earlier than that.。
He met Timothy on his first missionary journey to Lystra,。
and that's probably where Timothy accepts Christ,。
and that was when he was very, very young.。
And then later on, on his second journey,。
he meets Timothy again, and we see this in Acts 16.。
He meets Timothy, and by then,。
Timothy's probably around 15 years old.。
He's a teenager.。
But Timothy is very well spoken of in the community.。
And so Paul takes him under his wing around 15 and says,。
"Hey, you come with me.。
"Come with me, and I'll mentor you."。
And Timothy becomes his protege,。
and he says in the very beginning of 1 Timothy 1,。
Paul treats Timothy like his son.。
He says he's my one true son in the faith,。
the one whom I am love.。
We are one mind, we are like-minded.。
That's Timothy.。
Timothy was very interesting,。
'cause not only was he a young pastor of a church,。
he was also a second-generation believer,。
probably one of the first.。
His parents, well, actually,。
his mother and his grandmother were of the faith.。
We see this in 2 Timothy, where Paul talks to Timothy。
and says, "Hey, I know you have a very sincere faith,。
"but I first saw it in your grandmother Lois。
"and your mother Eunice."。
And so we see here that he was a second-generation believer.。
Who here is a second-generation believer?。
I am, as in, who here has parents who are believers?。
Okay, not that many of us.。
So he was a second-generation believer, one of the first.。
He was also bicultural,。
bicultural because his father was a Greek。
and his mother was a Jewish Christian.。
So you've got this Timothy, this young man,。
who's very well-spoken, but he's young,。
and he's probably quite timid.。
Paul tells him, "They don't have the spirit of timidity,。
"but of courage, of power."。
So he's probably quite a quiet guy,。
but he's very well-respected.。
And so that's Timothy, and now Paul sends him,。
when he's in his mid-30s, to this church。
in this place called Ephesus.。
So now I want to tell you a little bit about Ephesus。
as I set the scene.。
Ephesus was this major commercial hub.。
Let me tell you a bit more about it.。
It was full of trade.。
The banking was already very established there.。
Lots and lots of trade, lots of money, lots of wealth,。
lots of people, lots of businessmen.。
Constantly, people would be coming through Ephesus.。
And then a lot of the city's trade。
was also influenced by the temple,。
and the temple worshipped the goddess Artemis,。
who was the goddess of fertility.。
So there were some things that I can tell you about Ephesus,。
was this was a city that was ruled by money, sex, and power.。
Money, sex, and power.。
And then these churches started to develop.。
Paul himself stayed in Ephesus for three years。
and looked after this church.。
Now, the churches there, at that time,。
they were still under persecution,。
so they were likely to be house churches.。
So they would gather in people's homes,。
maybe around 20 to 25 people.。
They would gather around。
and just be in their little churches.。
But here was the problem.。
As they were gathering around in these small churches,。
and with all these different people。
coming into this major commercial hub,。
all these businessmen,。
all these people of high social status。
coming into these small churches,。
there was this problem that was arising。
that the teaching was starting to deviate from the truth.。
This trying to deviate from the truth,。
they were starting to question, who was Jesus?。
There were people within the church。
that were starting to teach false doctrine.。
They were starting to teach,。
oh, is Jesus really who he says he is?。
Did the resurrection really happen?。
And so Paul sees this and he's like,。
okay, we need to sort this out.。
So Timothy, can you go to Ephesus and can you stay there?。
And I charge you to do all these things, to be this leader.。
Now, imagine this, and I feel this,。
as a young minister in a city。
ruled by money, sex, and power,。
going into a church that probably had those things。
infiltrated into the church.。
And people who were maybe very used to being listened to,。
who had positions of power in society。
were now coming into the church。
and expecting to be able to talk and to have their way.。
And so this young Timothy comes in,。
needing to confront them, needing to lead the church.。
The integrity of the church was in danger here.。
And so that's really setting the scene.。
That's who Timothy was, and he was writing to Ephesus.。
Of course, you don't need me to tell you。
that actually Ephesus is very similar to where?。
Hong Kong.。
And you're asking, okay, so what does this passage。
from 2000 years ago have anything to do。
with what we are living now?。
Well, as you can see, we are in the same place。
where you see the secularisation of church,。
where the way the world runs things outside。
is starting to seep into the church.。
Paganism, the corporate style of running things。
is starting to seep into the body of Christ.。
And yet God asks us the same question, where are you?。
Are you representing me?。
Are you my ambassadors?。
What does the church have to say about caring for the poor?。
What is the church doing as they look after the youth,。
the disenfranchised, the ones who have no hope?。
As we deal with all these things in society,。
where is the church and what are we supposed to do?。
And Paul reminds us here,。
there's only one thing that we really need to think about.。
The aim of our charge is love, love.。
The issues from a pure heart, good conscience。
and sincere faith.。
And you might be here saying, okay, well, fine.。
All you need is love.。
Okay, fine.。
What does that look like?。
As we do church together, as we hang out together,。
there's gonna be admin, there's gonna be logistics,。
there's gonna be all these things that we have to do.。
How do we love in the midst of those things?。
And there's really one question I want you to leave。
this call with this evening.。
And that is, where is the love?。
Or maybe to apply it to our lives is,。
what would love have me do?。
What would love, I'm borrowing that from a pastor。
in America called Andy Stanley.。
And it's a question that he would often ask himself。
whenever faced with decisions, whenever faced with needing。
to figure out what to do in a certain circumstance,。
he would ask himself this question,。
what would love have me do?。
That's the question I've been asking myself.。
I'll tell you recently, Christina and I,。
we got into a really big fight, married couples,。
do we get into fights every now and again?。
Yeah, I got into a big fight.。
And I remember that question popping up。
and just piercing through my heart.。
See, when two people are trying to live together。
and raise kids together and work together,。
no doubt there are differences in the way that you do things。
and where you wanna put your toothbrushes。
in a different place with the other person,。
the amount of times you wanna clean the toilet,。
no, this is the whole thing.。
I'm not here to just share all of my household problems。
with you right now.。
But I remember asking myself that question.。
It got to a point where it was like, you know what?。
It wasn't just what's the right thing to do.。
It was what would love have me do.。
And I would love for you to be able。
to leave this room today.。
Having that question in your mind,。
I think everyone here probably has something。
that they have to deal with。
or something that they are dealing with。
or someone that they are dealing with.。
I wanna ask you to think about that question.。
What would love have me do?。
Now, again, it's almost an abstract concept sometimes,。
but it can be very much simplified.。
But let's call it an abstract concept for now,。
this idea of love.。
And yet Paul breaks it down.。
Where do you get love from?。
It issues from a pure heart, a good conscience,。
and a sincere faith.。
And today I briefly just wanna break those three parts down。
so maybe you can leave here with a better idea。
of what love really is.。
And the first one is a pure heart.。
Love comes from a pure heart.。
Jesus talks about this in Matthew 5:8.。
"Blessed are those who are pure in heart,。
"for they will see God."。
But when we hear that pure in heart,。
we're not talking about someone。
who's fighting successfully the temptations of lust,。
of power, it's not quite just that.。
When he says, "Blessed are those who are pure in heart,"。
what they mean is that you are single-mindedly devoted。
to God.。
He's saying that if you are single-mindedly,。
tunnel direction, devoted to God, then you will see Him.。
And your love has to be that from a pure place,。
that we are loving Him wholeheartedly.。
There is no halfway house when it comes to loving God,。
at least there should not be.。
When we love God, it has to be with all our heart,。
soul, and mind.。
It has to be wholehearted.。
The totality of your affections has to be directed to God.。
Let me just stop there.。
No need to raise hands, but hey,。
how many of us declare that we love God?。
We sing songs and we,。
but do we really, truly love Him?。
With a pure heart, single-mindedly devoted to Him?。
When we sing the songs in church,。
do we truly mean them?。
Are we giving up ourselves completely to the Lord?。
And I think sometimes, and for those of us。
who have maybe spent so much time in church,。
we can go through the motions so easily.。
Just declare our love, but is it really a love。
that comes out of a pure heart?。
Jesus talks about this.。
He says, "They might be worshipping me with their lips,。
"but their hearts are far from me.。
"They may look good on the outside,。
"but inside, oh my goodness, they are so filthy.。
"They are so distanced from me."。
Brothers and sisters, do you have a pure heart for God?。
When you say you love Him, when you sing about loving Him,。
do you truly love Him?。
Have you given Him everything?。
That's the first thing.。
Love comes from a pure heart.。
The second one is this, a good conscience.。
A good conscience, the word conscience there in the Greek。
is synedesis, which means joint knowledge.。
It means having an awareness of right and wrong.。
And this was happening in the church at that moment,。
where we'll talk about it in the coming weeks,。
especially when it deals with false doctrine,。
Paul was saying that there are certain people in the church,。
in the church, not outside, in the church,。
who are teaching a false gospel.。
And what does he say in 1 Timothy 3, 4?。
He says, "Their consciences are seared.。
"They are liars.。
"They are liars."。
And when he talks about a leader in 1 Timothy 3,。
he's talking about a leader that needs to hold。
the mystery of the faith in good conscience,。
having full awareness of what's right and wrong.。
See, there were people in the church at that moment。
that were teaching, and they were basically teaching。
false truth, basically to control other people.。
Some of the things, and Paul talks about this in Timothy,。
he's saying, "Some of you are forbidding people。
"to get married.。
"Some of you are banning marriage.。
"Some of you are banning foods.。
"You're doing that because you are seeking control.。
"Your consciences are seared.。
"You are liars.。
"You don't have this conscience where you know。
"what's right from wrong anymore."。
You may stop there and just go,。
"Well, hang on a minute.。
"Conscience is a very individualistic thing.。
"Hey, what's right for me is right.。
"We're in that kind of society now, right?"。
But you see, that's our own,。
maybe a lot of us might be influenced。
by the modern way of thinking,。
maybe a Western way of thinking,。
which is our conscience belongs to us,。
that everything is just, only God can judge me.。
You can't judge me.。
Everything is about, everything can be determined by me.。
But you see, Paul wouldn't have written。
about conscience in such a way.。
The Eastern mindset, and maybe for those of us。
who are more Chinese will understand this,。
when it comes to good conscience,。
when it comes to right and wrong,。
it is also found within the context of community.。
It is also found in the context of community,。
believers together, interpreting scripture together,。
not just relying on the flesh of one person。
and then distorting it for their own good.。
But within a community,。
you determine what is right and wrong.。
That is how you have a good conscience。
because it affects, recognizing that what you do。
affects other people.。
Maybe the Western mindset is one of guilt.。
When you do something wrong, I feel guilty。
'cause I've wronged and it's all about me.。
But the Eastern mindset is different.。
It's about honour.。
It's about shame.。
When you do something wrong,。
yeah, you probably feel guilty,。
but you feel that shame,。
that I have brought shame on my whole family.。
I can't do that because it will be frowned upon。
in my community.。
And that's more of what the Apostle Paul。
would have understood it to be.。
So for us, it's important for us to gather in these places。
and to teach each other correct doctrine。
because it's here where we're able to live out the truth.。
It's here where we're able to maintain that good conscience,。
that awareness of what's right and wrong.。
So the question that we have to ask is,。
as we go about our way, as we make decisions,。
is our conscience clear?。
Are we glorifying God?。
And are we edifying and lifting up the body。
and building up the body of Christ?。
That's how you know you have a good conscience.。
And only then will you have the love that God demands.。
Conscience is tied in with love。
because it's about how we love each other,。
if we're just all determined by how we feel。
and we're not caring about other people,。
then is that really love?。
But true love is where we consider the interests of others.。
That's how we maintain our good conscience.。
And the final thing is sincere faith.。
Paul talks about this,。
that some people have shipwrecked their faith.。
This sincere faith is one that is without pretense。
or without deceit.。
It is sincere, it is genuine.。
2 Timothy 1, he says,。
"Hey, there's this sincere faith that I see in you, Timothy,。
"and it's great, young man,。
"but I didn't see it in you first.。
"I saw it in your grandmother, Lois,。
"and I saw it in your mother, Eunice,。
"and it's great and it's beautiful."。
But here's the thing about faith.。
For those of you who may be a second generation believers,。
even though it's passed down to you,。
you still have to be the one that embraces it yourself.。
It's only genuine when it's your own.。
You can't rely on your parents' faith.。
You can't rely on the faith of the friends around you.。
You cannot rely on your pastor's faith.。
Your faith has to be a sincere one。
that is genuinely your own.。
One of my favourite songs is "Help Me Find My Own Flame."。
'Cause I grew up, and my brother grew up in a church。
where our parents were very well-respected within the church,。
and everyone would look at us。
and just see us as being the good kids growing up in church.。
But at some point, both of us had to decide。
that this faith, are we sincere about this faith?。
Is it a genuine faith?。
Is it an authentic one?。
Do I truly believe in God?。
Do I truly love Him with all my heart, soul, and mind?。
Do I truly believe what the Bible says?。
Not just because my parents tell me to believe.。
Not just because it's something that I've done all my life,。
going to church.。
But do I truly believe that what happened in this book。
from Genesis to Revelation,。
do I truly believe that it existed?。
Do I truly believe that Jesus existed?。
That He really is who He says He is?。
Do I truly believe that He died and rose from the dead?。
That song that we sang, that it was finished on the cross.。
Do I truly believe in the power of the cross?。
Not do they believe,。
not do I know intellectually that it happened,。
but do I truly believe it in my heart?。
Because when you do, you complete this trio。
that contributes to love.。
When you have sincere faith added to a good conscience,。
added to a pure heart,。
you finally get the kind of love。
that Paul is charging Timothy with,。
that Jesus is commanding us to have.。
That kind of love.。
And you might ask this question to me,。
I'm asking it all the time.。
What would love have me do?。
How do I live the most lovingly in this circumstance,。
in this scenario at work, in this challenge in my family?。
How do I love?。
I struggle with love, with loving people.。
I struggle with loving my kids, with loving my wife,。
with loving my mother,。
and definitely struggle with loving my brother.。
Love, do you struggle with love?。
See, the thing about love is this,。
and this is where I'll finish.。
Jesus commands us to love God and love people.。
And he ties the two together.。
You can't love God, but not love people.。
You have to love God.。
And when you, sorry, when you love God,。
you have to love people, because that's his heart.。
So you genuinely have to do it.。
And when you love people,。
that is simply an overflow of your love for God.。
So maybe I'll finish with this question.。
For those of you who are struggling to love others,。
or maybe you're struggling to live out that kind of love,。
'cause it's hard, and it is,。
and the best things are never easy.。
But as you think about why is it so hard to love,。
I guess the first real question is,。
do you know what love is?。
And the greatest form of love。
is when Jesus gave his life for you.。
Do you truly believe that in your head。
and let it drop down into your heart?。
You only really appreciate Jesus' love for you。
if you really are aware that you needed saving.。
Because if you're not aware。
that actually that you need rescuing,。
then you're not really that grateful。
when your rescuer comes.。
So then it goes back and we rewind it back.。
Do you, are you aware of your own depravity?。
Are you aware that you fall short of the glory of God?。
You are so far, far worse than you ever dared even think.。
When you get to that point,。
when you realise how broken you are,。
that you on your own cannot do this,。
when you realise that,。
when you realise that without God,。
you are literally drowning underwater,。
then you will truly understand the love。
that God has for you,。
that he was willing to empty himself.。
He was willing to come down from heaven to earth。
to come and rescue you.。
So only when you truly understand how far short you fall,。
do you truly understand,。
do you truly embrace and appreciate how much you are loved.。
And once you appreciate how much you are loved,。
that God would rescue you,。
that God will rescue me,。
that will then fill your heart with the kind of love。
that will allow you to love other people.。
And so church, brothers and sisters,。
as we go about our way in life in this city。
that is very similar to Ephesus,。
as we meet people who are clearly struggling。
on loving each other,。
can we ask that question?。
Where is the love?。
Oh, that love is supposed to be in me.。
So I am going to live out that love.。
What would love have me do?。
That is the question of the day.。
What would love have us do as a church?。
And we're gonna be going into some very interesting topics。
in these next few months。
about how the church should handle。
a lot of different matters.。
But I never want us to stray too far。
from just focusing on those issues。
'cause Paul has said it here.。
The whole point of all those charges,。
the whole point of all those commandments is love.。
And we start there.。
That is the priority.。
When the world is asking us,。
where are you, church?。
What are you doing?。
About this, about this, about this, about this.。
We stick to what we need to remember, which is love.。
That's the priority.。
Did you know the word priority。
appeared in the English language。
about in the 14th century?。
And it only ever used to be singular, priority.。
Because you're only really supposed。
to only have one priority.。
But it was only in the 19th century。
where the English language started to evolve。
and it became priorities.。
And then suddenly we have all these other things。
that are vying for our attention.。
Oh, I should do this, I should do this, I should do this.。
Love is the priority.。
That should be the thing that fills our hearts.。
That should be the thing that determines。
everything that we do.。
Love.。
All you need is love.。
Let's pray.。
So Father, as we,。
as we come before you and we thank you for your word,。
that you use Paul to write to Timothy.。
And we pray that those charges。
would seep into our own life, our own church.。
Lord, that we would remember,。
that we would cling on to love.。
That you would remind us of what love really is.。
Lord, that you would reveal to us,。
for those of us who are struggling with the pure heart,。
that our hearts are just so distracted,。
that we are loving so many different things.。
I pray, Lord, that you would just give us the strength。
to be able to just love you with everything that we have.。
If all that we are,。
would you give us the strength to be able to love you。
with a pure heart, to search our hearts, test our thoughts,。
see if there's any offensive way in us。
and lead us on the path that is everlasting.。
I pray that you would grant us your spirit。
to help us discern and grant us a good conscience.。
One that would bring you honour,。
the one that would honour those around us.。
For those of us who have maybe deviated from the truth.。
Lord, that you would bring us back to your truth.。
To your love.。
And finally, Lord, we bow down before you。
and we come before you with a sincere faith.。
Recognising that we are far worse than we ever imagined,。
we're far more loved than we ever dared dream.。
We come before you with a broken heart,。
a contrite spirit.。
Recognising our need for you.。
For you.。
Our need for you, not their need for you,。
but our need for you.。
And we pray, Lord, that you would show us the way.。
That you would show us your heart.。
So we rest in your presence and we build our lives。
on that firm foundation that is love.。
May it not just be an abstract concept.。
May it not just be the words in a cheesy romantic song.。
May it be the kind of love that you showed us.。
And may we be given opportunities to ask that question.。
What would love have us do?。
Thank you, Lord.。
It's in your name we pray.。
Amen.。
(music)。
(music)。
