- Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time。
that we can read your word,。
that we can meditate on it and understand it.。
And I ask that Lord, your Holy Spirit would empower me now。
as I preach your word,。
that Lord, it may not be my words,。
but it would be your words, Father,。
that you would soften our hearts to receive your word now.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
All right, good evening, everybody.。
Hope you're doing well.。
And we finished 1 Timothy,。
and now we are on to 2 Timothy.。
And in 1 Timothy, Paul charged Timothy,。
who was a pastor, a young and upcoming pastor,。
to uphold the truth, to pray, to lead, to serve,。
to love others, and also to fight the good fight of faith.。
And now he starts off his second letter.。
And once again, he introduces himself, right?。
Paul, he's an apostle who he's talking to, to Timothy.。
He treats him like a dear son, right?。
And he blesses him with grace and mercy and peace from God.。
Paul is actually writing from jail in this second time.。
Has anybody been to Rome?。
I know you have.。
This is the second time.。
Has anybody been to Rome before?。
Anybody been to Rome before?。
Has anybody been to the Roman Forum there?。
Right around the Roman Forum is the prison。
that they believe Paul was imprisoned。
in his second imprisonment in Rome.。
And you can see it's a dark cave.。
It's not a nice place to live.。
It's kind of roomy actually for Hong Kong.。
But I still wouldn't rent it probably.。
Not enough light, I think.。
Although when you go visit it now,。
it's nicely lit up for you as you visit it.。
Paul was in his last days, before he was to be executed,。
before he was to be judged in Rome.。
And this was the condition he was living in.。
A dark, moist hole where food was dropped down to him.。
And where was Timothy?。
He was writing to Timothy and Timothy was in Ephesus。
as you see in the next picture.。
Ephesus was the New York of that day, right?。
That's where all the craziest,。
brightest things were happening at that time.。
Ephesus was the New York of those times.。
And so Paul is writing to Timothy.。
And how do you usually start off a letter?。
Or how do you usually start off an email?。
How do you guys usually start off?。
Hi, how's it going?。
It was really good seeing you last time.。
Thank you, Albert, for coming today.。
Yeah, Albert's waving.。
Paul does the same thing.。
He's like, hey, I wanna thank several things。
before I get started in this letter.。
And he says, I thank you firstly,。
for God whom I serve as my ancestors did.。
And so he's thankful for the Israelites。
that God had called them to be his people.。
The second thing he is thankful for。
is his personal relationship with Timothy.。
In verse four, he says he recalls the tears。
that Timothy had.。
I long to see you so that I may be filled with joy.。
They had a very close, deep, personal relationship.。
And the third thing that Paul is thankful for。
is the faith that Timothy had.。
And this faith was actually passed down。
from his grandmother to his mother, and now to him.。
And some of us were at Joe and Alex's wedding。
on Monday, and one of the great things。
that we remembered was Joe's father.。
He was a great man of faith,。
and that faith was passed on to James and Joseph.。
And they were able to celebrate that,。
that faith on that wedding day as well.。
And so now Paul goes into the heart of his letter,。
or the first part of his letter,。
and he says to guard, "Timothy, guard several things.。
The first thing is guard the physical gifts。
that the Spirit has given you.。
Guard your emotions.。
Guard the spiritual truth that I've passed down to you。
in the gospel.。
Guard your commitment.。
Stand guard."。
And when I think about guard,。
I really like to think about those guards。
that stand outside the Queen's Palace.。
Has anybody been there before?。
So, yeah?。
Has anybody taken selfies with those guards before?。
Michelle has.。
It's amazing, right?。
Michelle takes all sort of selfies with them,。
makes funny faces, and what do they do?。
Do they make faces as well?。
No, they are stone-faced.。
They, I don't know, look at something.。
I don't know what they're looking at.。
Stone-faced.。
They're emotionally blank, it seems,。
or focused, emotionally focused, mentally focused,。
committed to their, do their job。
of guarding the Queen's Palace.。
Although I watched that Netflix show,。
and it showed that somebody jumped the fence。
and stole something, right?。
So, I don't know.。
Maybe at night, they're not on guard.。
I don't know.。
But Paul tells Timothy to also stand guard.。
And the first thing he tells them to stand guard。
is as we read in verse six,。
"For this reason, because of your faith,。
"I remind you to fan into flame。
"the gift of God, which is in you。
"through the laying of hands."。
Fan into flame, the gift that has been given to you,。
the spiritual gifts that have been in you.。
Another translation is stir up, fan into flame.。
Who knows how to start a fire?。
Who knows how to start a fire?。
Paul knows how to start a fire?。
Okay, Paul, how do you start a fire?。
The traditional way.。
- Well, you can get some lint and spark,。
or just use a lighter.。
- Traditional way.。
- Traditional way.。
- Oh, just rub some sticks together.。
- Right, rub sticks together.。
And then what else do you do afterwards?。
- Rub more sticks together.。
- Right, okay.。
All right, rub more sticks together.。
And then eventually, there's a spark.。
And then Michelle's doing this,。
and it's not 'cause Philemon's beside him.。
And he's smelling, I'm joking.。
But you gotta fan into flame, right?。
Fan into flame.。
There's this combustion that happens。
between oxygen and this spark that happens.。
What happens when you're doing your barbecue?。
You know, Hong Kong people love those barbecues.。
And you leave the coal.。
What happens to it?。
Does it get eventually brighter and brighter?。
No, it starts to die.。
It starts to die down.。
And Paul is telling Timothy here,。
the gifts that you've been given,。
don't just stay, you know, and don't use them.。
Don't be passive and sit on the couch.。
He's saying fan into fame.。
Stir up, be active, not passive.。
The gifts, the spiritual gifts that you've been given,。
fan into flame.。
I'm reminded of that parable, that story that Jesus told,。
the parable of the talents.。
The master was gonna go away on a trip,。
maybe a staycation, all right?。
And on the staycation, he was like,。
"Oh, I should entrust my wealth to some of my servants."。
And to one he gave, how much?。
10, oh no, see, tricked you, five.。
To the other he gave, two.。
And to one, to the other one, he gave one,。
according to their ability, right?。
As the scripture says.。
And most people who have gifts or who have wealth,。
they start to invest it.。
And so do the ones that have been trusted with two。
and the one with four or five.。
And what happens is they multiply.。
They double what they've made.。
But there's one servant here,。
the one that's been trusted with one.。
And Jesus says, what was his emotion?。
He was afraid.。
And so what did he do?。
He dug up a hole and hid his talent.。
He hid his talent.。
And Paul is telling Timothy here,。
"Be like those servants who've been entrusted。
"with money, with talent, and multiply it."。
Stir up those gifts, use them.。
Fan into flame those gifts.。
Anybody grow up in Canada here?。
Canadian, Canadia, a couple people.。
In Canada, there's two main languages.。
Do you know what?。
It's not Chinese, Cantonese.。
(audience laughing)。
It's French, en Francais.。
Bonjour, ça va bien?。
Okay, Albert is slightly recalling those years.。
In Canada, you have to learn French。
because it's also the other official language.。
And I learned it from grade one to grade 10.。
I actually took it in grade 10 as well.。
So imagine spending probably, I don't know,。
an hour, an hour and a half, five days a week。
learning that for 10 years.。
You should say, "Well, Johnny,。
"your French should be amazing, right?。
"You should like, it should be better than your Cantonese."。
I actually don't remember any French.。
(audience laughing)。
I mean, Michelle could barely recount the numbers, right?。
(speaking in foreign language)。
She knows one, two, three.。
(audience laughing)。
What happens when we don't use our gifts?。
We lose it, we lose it.。
And my French is bad,。
even though I spent all those hours learning.。
And if we don't use the spiritual gifts。
that we've been given, we may lose it as well.。
And so Paul tells Timothy,。
"Fan into flame the gifts that you have。
"that's in you with the laying of hands."。
The laying of hands, it shows community,。
the body of Christ working together.。
It shows dedication as we anoint our pastors,。
our reverends to serve.。
The second thing that Paul tells Timothy。
as we continue in verse seven,。
"For the spirit God gave us does not make us timid,。
"but gives us power, love, and self-discipline."。
In other translations, it says,。
"God's spirit doesn't make you afraid of people."。
So this sort of tells us that possibly Timothy was timid.。
He was maybe a bit shy or a bit laid back.。
Maybe he was a normal, a person of normal courage,。
but he had so much work to cover, so much work to do, right?。
Sometimes ministry can be overwhelming.。
Maybe it might not have been just this church in Ephesus,。
but a lot of churches surrounding him.。
So he was overwhelmed.。
And so Paul is telling Timothy,。
"Don't be timid, don't be afraid,。
"don't be fearful,。
"because the Holy Spirit gives us power,。
"love, and self-discipline."。
We need discernment.。
We need discernment.。
Because sometimes we're afraid of things。
that God isn't telling us to be afraid of.。
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, right?。
But sometimes we fear things that we shouldn't be fearing.。
And these fears, they start to disable us, hinder us.。
Maybe we're afraid to start a ministry。
because we think, "Oh, we don't know if anybody will come."。
Sometimes we do that, right?。
Like, "Oh, should we start a ministry?。
"Like, oh, should we start Alpha this season?。
"Because we don't know if anybody's gonna sign up.。
"What if nobody signs up?。
"Then it's just me doing Alpha by myself。
"with my helpers, the three of us.。
"Should we start it?。
"I don't know, I'm afraid.。
"Maybe, oh, I'm afraid to serve。
"because, oh, I don't know if I'm good enough.。
"Maybe I don't wanna serve。
"because, oh, I don't know what other people will think of me.。
"What if I do a bad job。
"and people will look differently upon me。
"and look down on me?"。
Sometimes fears hold us back.。
Fears hold us back.。
And Paul is telling Timothy, "Do not be afraid。
"because the Holy Spirit gives us power."。
The power to save lives,。
the power to serve Him with His gifts,。
the power to love people.。
That is the central aim of ministry,。
to love people, to love God and His people.。
God also gave us the Holy Spirit。
for sound mind or self-discipline, as it says.。
Fear or distraction can take control of our ministry.。
That God's Spirit imparts steadiness, steadiness.。
So are we paralyzed by fear。
or are we courageous in faith?。
Are we paralyzed by fear or are we courageous in faith?。
One of the summer activities that we did。
in the Titus Fellowship。
was we went bouldering, indoor bouldering.。
Anybody been indoor bouldering before?。
It's quite popular nowadays.。
So you climb up and then there's these like really soft mats。
and you can just jump down or whatnot, right?。
Or down climb and then jump when it's a safe distance.。
But as some people climb higher and higher,。
they start to possibly be afraid, afraid of heights.。
And when they're afraid of heights, what happens?。
They start to panic and maybe they'll jump down。
or maybe they won't be able to climb the rest of the route.。
Fear paralyzes them,。
prevents them from doing what they can do.。
Are we paralyzed by fear。
or are we courageous in faith as we depend on His Spirit?。
The third thing that Paul tells Timothy。
as we read in verse eight here。
is that do not be ashamed of the gospel。
or the testimony about our Lord or of me, His prisoner.。
Rather, join me in suffering for the gospel。
by the power of God.。
He has saved us and called us to a holy life.。
The third thing that Paul tells Timothy to guard。
is the gospel, the spiritual truth.。
Don't be ashamed of the gospel.。
And Paul certainly wasn't ashamed, right?。
He was willing to go wherever God told him,。
even when it meant trial,。
even when it meant imprisonment.。
He was not ashamed.。
And he went so far as to say to Timothy here,。
"Join me in suffering.。
Join me in suffering for the gospel."。
And Paul's reasoning is this.。
It's because this gospel has saved us。
as we see in the next slide.。
Paul's reasoning is that this gospel。
has called us to a holy life。
and it has given us grace.。
And this grace came with the appearing of Jesus Christ。
which destroyed death and sin。
and has brought life, an eternal life.。
And that is why Paul is a preacher.。
He's preaching this gospel so fervently.。
That is why he's an apostle.。
An apostle is one that is called to go。
and take the gospel where it is not.。
An apostle is one that writes the word of God,。
has been given that gift.。
He's a teacher of the gospel as well.。
And Paul tells Timothy here。
to hold fast, to keep the gospel,。
hold fast to it。
because it is sound teaching.。
It is reasonable.。
It is truthful.。
And you hold fast to it.。
And as you hold fast to it,。
your faith is revealed。
and the love of Christ is revealed.。
As we see in the next slide here,。
guarding the gospel truth。
reflects our faith and love.。
As we guard the truth of God in our lives,。
we automatically reveal our faith.。
Automatically we reveal the love of God.。
As we go about standing up for the truth,。
we can't help but show the faith that we have。
in what God has done for us and to love others around us.。
Okay, the last thing that Paul tells Timothy in verse 14。
is to guard the good deposit that was entrusted to you.。
Guard it with the help of the Holy Spirit who lives in us.。
So Paul spent a lot of verses saying, guard the truth.。
The truth is so important。
because there were so many false teachers。
and so many false prophets, right?。
The truth is so important.。
How we are saved.。
It's not by works.。
It's through faith.。
And the last thing that Paul tells Timothy。
is to guard the good deposit that was entrusted to you.。
Now, what is this good deposit?。
What is this good deposit?。
Well, in other translations,。
the New Living Translation,。
it says through the power of the Holy Spirit。
who lives within us, carefully guard the precious truth。
that has been entrusted to you.。
So it could be continuing what Paul has been already saying.。
He's saying, guard the truth.。
And he's saying, before he was saying, keep the truth.。
And now he's saying, guard the truth as well.。
Other people could think it is possibly the Holy Spirit,。
right?。
In Ephesians, he says he put his spirit in our hearts。
as a deposit guaranteeing what is to come.。
All right, this deposit is our passport to heaven.。
Could be the Holy Spirit.。
In other translations, the New King James Version,。
it says this, the good thing which was committed to you,。
keep by the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.。
Or another translation says, guard the treasure。
that is entrusted to you with the help of the Holy Spirit.。
All right, let's have a wager here.。
What do you guys think it is?。
Who thinks it's the truth, the good deposit?。
Anybody?。
The truth?。
Okay, Florence, maybe Vincent.。
Oh, Bonnie thinks it's the truth.。
Yeah, okay.。
All right, more takers.。
Who thinks it's the Holy Spirit?。
Anybody?。
Anybody?。
Okay.。
Michelle, Albert.。
Okay, four, five.。
Okay, six.。
Holy Spirit.。
Who thinks this good thing possibly is the ministry。
or this treasure, this ministry that God has given Timothy?。
Anybody?。
Any takers?。
Ministry?。
No, no takers?。
Okay, who has no idea?。
Raise your hand.。
Who has no idea?。
No idea?。
Okay.。
Okay, and the last option.。
Who thinks it could be all of the above?。
Okay, Paul just like totally raises his hand。
like he won the lottery or something.。
(laughing)。
Me.。
I possibly think it might be all of the above.。
Paul is telling Timothy,。
the thing that you've been entrusted,。
what has Timothy been entrusted with?。
He's been entrusted with the truth,。
the pass on the truth, absolutely.。
He's been entrusted with the church。
that he's been given to pastor that church,。
with the congregation he is to serve.。
And he has been blessed with the Holy Spirit.。
That empowers him, that teaches him to counsel him.。
In the parable of the talents,。
Paul, just like how this master is saying,。
he entrusts his servants with precious things, right?。
Not garbage things.。
He's entrusting him with significant things.。
These talents are worth a lot.。
They mean a lot to the master.。
And I think likewise, Paul is saying to Timothy,。
God has entrusted you with so much.。
With the truth, with your ministry, with your church.。
He's given you the Holy Spirit.。
And so you must guard those things。
with the help of the Holy Spirit who lives in us.。
And so Paul, to recap, Paul is telling Timothy。
to firstly guard the physical, spiritual gifts。
that he's been given.。
Paul is telling him to guard his emotions.。
It's easy to be overcome by fear.。
But overcome fear through the Holy Spirit,。
the spirit of power, love, and self-discipline.。
We need to guard spiritual truth.。
'Cause in those days, there were so many false prophets.。
And today we also have many false prophets.。
We must also guard the truth.。
And lastly, Paul is telling Timothy。
to guard the things that have been committed to him.。
The truth, his church, the people he's mentoring,。
guard those things.。
And so here is some application.。
Paul tells Timothy to guard his spiritual truths.。
Are we using our spiritual gifts?。
Are we using our spiritual gifts?。
Or are we hiding it?。
Are we hiding it?。
Are you making up all sorts of excuses?。
Oh, I'm too busy.。
Oh, I have work.。
Oh, I have to take care of this and that.。
Or are we investing time to serve the Lord?。
The second thing is, are we overcome by fear?。
Are we courageous in faith?。
We need to seek discernment.。
Is this fear from God?。
Or is this fear from the devil,。
preventing me from serving God,。
paralyzing me from doing what God wants me to do?。
We need to seek discernment and surrender to the Holy Spirit.。
And we also need to reflect the truth。
and the life of Christ in our life.。
Every day, as we go to work, as we go to school,。
the media, everybody is telling you something different。
from what the truth is.。
We're bombarded every day。
with something other than the truth.。
And we need to protect the word of God.。
And we need to reflect that truth and life in our life.。
And lastly, what have you been entrusted with?。
What has God entrusted you with?。
Maybe it's the worship team.。
Maybe God has entrusted you with responsibilities at work.。
Maybe it's seminary.。
Maybe it's your schooling right now.。
Maybe God has entrusted you with friends and family。
who don't know Jesus yet.。
And He wants you to commit your life。
to sharing His love and His truth to them.。
Are you willing to stand on guard?。
Are you willing to stand on guard?。
And the last thing I think about when I'm standing on guard。
is Hong Kong's first gold medal.。
What's his name?。
What's his name?。
Cheung Ka-long, Edgar Cheung.。
Do you know what he was ranked in the world rankings。
before he went to win the gold medal?。
Do you know what he was ranked?。
10, good guess.。
Any other takers?。
He was ranked 19th.。
19th.。
He wasn't expected to win.。
That's like Canada winning the World Cup.。
Is Canada worth 19?。
Probably not even 19.。
Right?。
Probably 100 something, right?。
Canada's.。
This is what he said.。
"I thought to myself,。
"everyone was either an Olympic champion。
"or a world champion, and I was nobody.。
"That helped me to relax a bit.。
"At this moment, I still cannot believe。
"that I'm the champion."。
He was so, under so much pressure,。
and he had to relax himself.。
Timothy was also overwhelmed。
by all the ministry that he had to do.。
Maybe all the false teachers that were attacking him.。
He was also overwhelmed,。
but he was willing to stand on guard。
as Paul encouraged him.。
And Edgar Chan says, Cheung says this,。
"After winning, I told myself, I can't get complacent.。
"I'll continue to work hard to bring glory to Hong Kong."。
To bring glory to Hong Kong.。
Imagine if we as Christians。
are as committed。
to guarding Christ and his truth。
as much as Edgar is willing。
to devote himself to a sport of fencing.。
He dedicated his life,。
started from a young age to fencing,。
and eventually he worked so hard,。
even though he was the underdog,。
he won the gold medal.。
Are we willing to dedicate our life。
to guard the gospel truth,。
to stand for his truth,。
to use our gifts,。
dedicate our life,。
protect what has been entrusted to us?。
Are we willing to do that?。
And then eventually, we will also be champions.。
Champions for the Lord.。
To receive the crown of glory。
that Jesus has promised。
and Paul later talks about。
in the rest of the chapters.。
Let us take some time to respond。
as the band comes up.。
Are we willing to stand on guard?。
Let's take a moment to just think about。
what has God entrusted you with?。
Your gifts.。
Your ministry.。
The people around you.。
The truth, the Bible, gospel truth.。
God has entrusted you with these things.。
Are you willing to guard these things?。
To use these things, fan into flame?。
The gifts that you have been given.。
Surrender these things.。
Surrender your emotions, your fears to the Lord.。
Are you willing?。
Let's just take a moment to pray and seek the Lord.。
What has he entrusted us?。
(soft music)。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for this message.。
Paul's charge to Timothy,。
to guard his spiritual gifts.。
Not be fearful.。
To guard the truth.。
To commit himself to what he's been entrusted with.。
I pray that also for us.。
That the things you've blessed us with,。
it wouldn't just stay with us,。
but that we would pass it on to those around us.。
You bless us so that we could bless others.。
Could bless others.。
And they could know the truth.。
And they can know the light and life of Christ.。
Bless us Lord.。
Guide us by your Holy Spirit.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
