I get the privilege of closing this series as Peter closes his letter.。
The Book of 1 Peter contains so much.。
In a way, we haven't been able to do it justice.。
It might take a 10, 11, 12 week series and I look at every verse.。
But in another way, in a world that is devoid of hope, we have, and I must thank our speakers。
here.。
I must thank our speakers, James and Johnny, Michelle, and last week, Gabe.。
And James, 33.。
Our speakers have, I felt, clearly articulated the living hope that we hold as believers.。
Now, those of you who know me well, you know I like pictures and I've got another one for。
you.。
Okay.。
As I prayed for this sermon, as I prayed about the series, I was given the picture of God。
parting the Red Sea through Moses.。
Now let's look at this for a moment.。
The world at the moment feels like there are waves that are upon us.。
We've got COVID, we've got political uncertainty, we've got economic uncertainty.。
But God used Moses and he parted the Red Sea.。
Now there are two things about this.。
Number one, when God parted the Red Sea, it did not disappear.。
So actually, as we look at 1 Peter, as we look at what it is to have a living hope,。
COVID is still going to be there.。
Political uncertainty is still going to be there.。
Economic uncertainty is still going to be there.。
But what God is saying to us, and I believe he's using 1 Peter to do this, is I will use。
you.。
I will use this teaching for you to find a way through these things.。
The second thing which is very, very important, and I felt as I prayed about this, if you。
look in Moses' hand, he has a staff.。
Now if you did a general knowledge quiz today and someone said, "Who parted the Red Sea?"。
I guess 90% of people would say Moses.。
Moses did not part the Red Sea.。
God parted the Red Sea, but God used Moses.。
And God said to Moses two things, "What is in your hand?"。
"I just have a staff," he said.。
He said, "Raise your staff."。
And I feel that God is saying, "Church, look at what's in your hand.。
Don't look at what you don't have.。
Don't look at X, Y, Z church or ABC Christian and say, 'I haven't got what they've got.'。
What is in your hand?"。
And church, lift your staff.。
If you're able to at home, yeah, lift your hand, lift your staff, because God said, "I。
made a way through the Red Sea, and I am the living hope who will make a way through these。
difficult times."。
Now Peter has in his letter spent much of it addressing different groups.。
We've had husbands and wives, slaves and masters.。
And he begins chapter five by addressing us older people.。
He says, "Be shepherds."。
And for you younger people, that is everybody online apart from me and Joseph, he addresses。
the younger people to submit.。
But my aim tonight is to highlight a path through the Red Sea for us, all of us, now。
in 2021.。
And to do that, I want to pick up this letter at the point that Peter says, "Hey, all of。
you, let's read it."。
He said, "Yes, all of you be submissive to one another and be clothed with humility.。
For God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.。
Therefore, humble yourself under the mighty act of God, that he might exalt you in due。
time, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you."。
Now sorry, I've lost my file.。
As he closed this letter, Peter gave the church three important instructions to obey if they。
were to glorify God in this difficult experience.。
They are the same three that he gives us in 2021.。
Let's look at them.。
They are number one, be humble.。
Number two, be watchful.。
And number three, be hopeful.。
Let's look at them one at a time.。
Firstly, be humble.。
Peter said, "Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God."。
I want you to use the chat line now.。
I want you to say in a word or words, what describes to you being humble?。
What does being humble mean to you?。
Let's have some suggestions.。
Being grounded says Julian.。
Think higher of others.。
Serving others before self, Michelle.。
Thank you.。
Tony, don't take credit.。
Paul and Jackie have a serving heart.。
George, not thinking too highly of yourself.。
Charlotte, the same thing, not thinking of yourself too much.。
Listen before speaking, says Ken.。
Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God.。
Thank you, Sterling, seeing everyone higher or better than me and myself at the lowest.。
You don't need the rest of your sermon.。
You've just done it in the chat box.。
Now I always say in the Bible, when the word used is therefore, you have to ask yourself。
the question, what is it therefore?。
Now Peter had already warned the saints to be submissive and made the point, God can。
give that grace if and only if we humble ourselves before him.。
Proverbs 6 and 8 tells us that God resists the proud because God hates the sin of pride.。
It was pride that turned Lucifer into Satan.。
It was pride, a desire to be like God that stirred Eve to take the forbidden fruit.。
One John says the pride of life is an evidence of worldliness.。
My friends, the antidote to pride is the grace of God.。
And we receive that grace only when we yield ourselves to him.。
And the evidence of that grace is when we yield to each other.。
Submission is an act of faith.。
Can I say it again?。
Submission is an act of faith.。
We are trusting God to direct in our lives and to work out his purposes in his time.。
After all, there is a danger in submitting to others.。
They might take advantage of us, but not if we trust God and if we are truly submitted。
to one another.。
Now the key of course to this is in the phrase, I've highlighted it, in due time, that he。
might exalt you in due time.。
What does in due time mean?。
God never exalts anyone until that person is ready for it.。
First the cross, then the glory, first the suffering, and then the crown.。
Moses was under God's hands for 40 years before God sent him to deliver the Jews from Egypt.。
Joseph was under God's hand for at least 13 years before God lifted him to the throne.。
One of the evidences of our pride is our impatience with God.。
And Peter repeatedly tells us that one reason for suffering is that we might learn patience。
to government authorities in 1 Peter 2.。
That slaves submit to masters in 1 Peter 2.。
And that wives submit to husbands.。
Now I've upset all the women, I'm sorry, but that's what the Bible says.。
Now he commanded all of the believers to submit to God and to submit to each other.。
I want to hear, reiterate KFCI's commitment to all age ministry.。
I have to say my heart was so full last week when Gabe preached to us.。
Because so often there is a generation war in church.。
With the older people resisting change.。
And the younger people resisting the older people.。
Which is why our A in Cameo is for all age.。
The solution is I believe twofold.。
I put it on the screen.。
All believers, young and old, should submit to one another.。
And secondly, all should submit to God.。
The expression be clothed with humility is Peter's answer to the problem.。
Just as Jesus laid aside his outer garments and put on a towel to become a servant.。
So each of us should have a servant attitude and minister to each other.。
C.S. Lewis says this, I think it was similar to what you said, George.。
Humility is not demeaning ourselves and thinking poorly of ourselves.。
It is simply not thinking of ourselves at all.。
Indeed, we can never be submissive to each other until we are first submissive to God.。
And Peter quoted Proverbs 3.34 to defend his point.。
A verse that is also quoted in James 4.6.。
God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.。
I'm sorry I'm getting excited.。
It takes grace to submit to another believer.。
But here, Peter was referring to the words he heard Jesus say to him.。
For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled.。
Those who humble themselves will be exalted.。
One of the benefits of this kind of relationship with God is the privilege of letting him take。
care of our burdens.。
Unless we meet the conditions laid down in 1 Peter 5, we cannot claim the wonderful promise。
in 1 Peter 5, 7, casting all your care upon him for he cares for you.。
The word translated care means anxiety, the state of being pulled apart.。
I guess we all know how that feels at the moment when circumstances are difficult like。
now.。
It is easy for us to be anxious and worried.。
But if we are, we will miss God's blessing and become poor witnesses to the lost.。
I just want to pause there because I just sense in my heart that there are people listening。
tonight who really will identify with this.。
You feel anxious.。
You feel worried.。
But if we do, we may miss God's blessings.。
We need his inward peace if we are going to triumph in the fiery trial, triumph in the。
Red Sea and bring glory to his name.。
In 1 Peter 5, 7, we must once and for all give all of our cares, past, present, and。
future to the Lord.。
We mustn't hand them to him piecemeal, keeping those cares that we think we can handle ourselves.。
If we keep the little cares for ourselves, they will soon become big problems.。
Each time a new burden arises, we must by faith, we must by faith remind the Lord and。
ourselves that we have already turned it over to him.。
Now if anybody knew that from experience that God cares for his own, it was Peter.。
When you read the four gospels, you would discover that Peter shared in some wonderful。
miracles.。
Jesus healed Peter's mother-in-law.。
It gave him a great catch of fish.。
He helped him pay his temple tax.。
He helped him walk on the water.。
He repaired the damage that he did to the ear of Malchus.。
And he even delivered Peter from prison in Acts chapter 12.。
And it begs the question, how does God show his love and care for us when we give our。
cares to him?。
And I want to answer that by saying he performs four wonderful ministries on our behalf.。
Number one, he gives us courage to face our cares honestly.。
Number two, he gives us wisdom to understand the situation.。
Number three, he gives us strength to do what we must do.。
And number four, he gives us faith to trust him to do the rest.。
I want you to look at that slide for a moment.。
Some people give God their burdens and expect him to do everything.。
But my friends, it's important that we let him work in us as well as work for us.。
Can I just say that again?。
It's important that we let God work in us as well as work for us so that we will be。
prepared when the answer comes.。
Trust your burdens on the Lord and he will sustain you.。
Let's read on and find the second instruction.。
Be sober.。
I think that was for you, Michelle, after you had the communion wine.。
Okay.。
Be sober.。
Be vigilant.。
Because your adversary, the devil, walks around like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour.。
Resist him.。
Steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same sufferings are experienced by your brotherhood。
in the world.。
So here we have the second instruction.。
It is be watchful.。
He says in verse eight, be vigilant.。
Other versions say be alert.。
Now one reason that we have cares is because we have an enemy.。
As the serpent, Satan deceives.。
And as the lion, Satan devours.。
The word Satan means adversary.。
And the word devil means the accuser, the slanderer.。
Gabe told us last week that the recipient of this letter had already experienced the。
attacks of the slanderer and now would meet the lion in their fiery trial.。
And Peter gave them several practical instructions to help them get victory over their adversary.。
Now those of you who know me well will know I love words that start with R. So the first。
thing we're to do is this.。
We're to respect him.。
He is dangerous.。
Now this might surprise you to hear me say this.。
But no doubt Satan is a dangerous enemy.。
He is a serpent who can bite us when we least expect it.。
He is a destroyer and an accuser.。
He has great power, great intelligence, and a host of demons who assist him in his attacks。
against God's people.。
He is a formidable enemy.。
We should never joke about him, ignore him, or underestimate his ability.。
Peter says we must be sober and have our minds under control when it comes to conflict with。
Satan.。
Now a part of this soberness includes not blaming everything on the devil.。
Some people see a demon behind every bush and blame Satan for their headaches, their。
flat tires, or even their high rent in mid-levels.。
I heard a story of a lady who phoned her past a long distance to inform him that Satan had。
caused her to shrink three and a half inches.。
While I do have great respect for the wiles and the powers of the devil, I still feel。
we must get our information about him from the Bible and not from our own interpretation。
of experiences.。
My second R is recognize him.。
Scripture tells us he is a great pretender.。
I guess that's a cue for a song.。
Because he is a subtle foe, we must be vigilant and always on guard.。
His strategy is to counterfeit whatever God does.。
According to the parable of the tares in Matthew 13, whenever God plants a true Christian,。
Satan seeks to plant a counterfeit.。
One John 2 says he would deceive us were it not for the word of God and the spirit of。
God.。
The better we know God's word, the keener our spiritual senses will be to detect Satan。
at work.。
One John 4 says we must test the spirits and to know the false from the true and the true。
from the false.。
My last R and possibly the most important is that we resist him.。
This means that we take our stand on the word of God and refuse to be moved.。
Ephesians 6, the chapter about the armor of God, instructs us to firstly stand, then to。
withstand, and then thirdly to stand again.。
Unless we stand, we cannot withstand.。
Our weapons are the word of God and prayer, and our protection is the complete armor that。
God has given us.。
We resist him in the faith.。
That is our faith in God.。
Just as David took his stand against Goliath and trusted in the name of Jehovah, so we。
take our stand against Satan in the victorious name of Jesus Christ.。
Now a word of caution here.。
Never discuss things with Satan or his associates.。
We've made that mistake and we all know the sad consequences.。
Also never try to fight with Satan in your own way.。
Resist him the way Jesus did with the word of God.。
And Peter tells us never get the idea that you're the only one going through these battles。
because we are all facing the same trials.。
Church, we must pray for one another and encourage one another in the Lord.。
And just remember our personal victories will help others, just as their victories will。
help us.。
Had Peter obeyed these instructions the night Jesus was arrested, he would not have gone。
to sleep in the garden.。
He would not attack Malchus the servant and he would not have denied Jesus.。
He did not take the Lord's warning seriously.。
In fact, he argued with him.。
Not only did he recognize Satan when the adversary inflated his ego with pride, told him he didn't。
have to watch and pray, and then incited him to use his sword.。
Had Peter listened to the Lord and resisted the enemy, he would have escaped all of these。
failures.。
Both Peter and James give us the same formula for success.。
Therefore, submit to God.。
Resist the devil and he will flee from you.。
But before we can stand before Satan, we must bow before God.。
Peter resisted the Lord and ended up submitting to Satan.。
Let's read on and find the last instruction.。
"But may the God of all grace who called us to his eternal glory by Jesus Christ, after。
you have suffered a while, perfect, establish, strengthen, and settle you.。
To him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever.。
Amen."。
Now last instruction, isn't it wonderful that we get to it?。
Be hopeful.。
Repeat it to yourself.。
The book of 1 Peter started with hope and finishes with hope.。
Peter closed on a positive note and reminded his readers that God knew what he was doing。
and was in complete control.。
No matter how difficult the fiery trial may become, and I know that some of you have been。
going through fiery trials, no matter how difficult, a Christian always has hope.。
Peter gave several reasons for this hopeful attitude.。
Number one, we have God's grace.。
Look again at what our speakers have told us each week.。
James said our salvation is because of his grace.。
He said he called us before we called on him.。
Johnny said we have tasted that the Lord is gracious, so we are not afraid of anything。
that he purposes for us.。
Michelle and Gabe said his grace is manifold and meets every situation in life.。
As we submit to him, he gives us all the grace that we need.。
In fact, verse 10, he is described as the God of all grace.。
He has the grace in every time of need and we must stand in that grace.。
This is the end of our series.。
And the end of our series moves from grace to glory.。
We know we are going to glory.。
He has in verse 10 said he has called us into his eternal glory by Christ Jesus.。
James in week one told us this is the wonderful inheritance into which we were born.。
My friends, whatever begins with God's grace will always lead to God's glory.。
Okay, let's say that again.。
Whatever begins with God's grace will always lead us to God's glory.。
If we depend on God's grace when we suffer, that suffering will result in glory.。
Remember this.。
The road may be difficult.。
It might look like the Red Sea, but it leads to glory.。
And that is all that really counts.。
Our present suffering is only for a while.。
Our various trials are only for a season.。
But the glory that results is eternal.。
Secondly, we know that our trials are building Christian character.。
The Greek word translated makes you perfect means to equip, to adjust, to fit together.。
It is translated in Matthew 4.21 as mending nets.。
God has several tools that he uses to equip his people for life and service.。
And suffering is one of them.。
The word of God is another one too.。
He also uses the fellowship and the ministry of the church.。
Our Savior in heaven is perfecting his children so that they will do his will and his work.。
As I conclude the favorite word of my sermons, right?。
Peter uses three words to describe the kind of character that God wants us to have.。
Selfish means to fix firmly, to set fast.。
Christians must not be shaky or wobbly in their stand for Christ.。
Our hearts need to be established and this is accomplished by God's truth.。
The believer who is established will not be moved by persecution or led away by false。
doctrine.。
Secondly, strengthened means just that.。
God's strength given to us to meet the demands of life.。
What good is it to stand on a firm foundation if we don't have the power to act and settle。
is the translation of a word which means to lay a foundation.。
The house that was founded upon the rock withstood the storm.。
A believer who is equipped by God will continue in the faith grounded and settled.。
Colossians 1 tells us that.。
He will not be tossed to and fro and carried by every wind of doctrine.。
When an unbeliever goes through suffering, he loses his hope.。
But for a believer, suffering only increases his hope.。
Romans 5, I love this.。
Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings because we know that suffering brings perseverance.。
Perseverance, character and character, hope.。
Let me read that again.。
And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings perseverance。
and perseverance, character and character, hope.。
God builds character and brightens hope when a believer trusts in him and depends on his。
grace.。
The result is that God receives the glory forever and ever.。
So a reminder, be humble, be watchful, be hopeful.。
Now Paul always ended his letters with a benediction of grace.。
Peter closed this epistle with a benediction of peace.。
He said, "Greet one another with a kiss of love."。
I wish I was there to be able to do that for you.。
Greet one another with a kiss of love.。
Peace to you all who are in Christ Jesus.。
Amen.。
Peter opened his letter with a greeting of peace in 1 Peter 1 verse 2.。
And so the entire epistle points to God's peace from beginning to end.。
What a wonderful way to end a letter that announced the coming of a fiery trial.。
The church today is facing a fiery trial and we must be prepared.。
Remember the Red Sea.。
But whatever may come, Peter is still saying to each one of us, be hopeful, the glory is。
soon to come.。
We're going to finish the series as we started the series by singing that song, "Living Hope."。
I want you to look at every word as you sing this, as we conclude our series.。
And then Michelle will pray for us.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
