(silence)。
And we're taking this opportunity post Eta。
to do a short series on 2 Peter.。
2 Peter is actually very rarely preached in church.。
And as Michelle said, I don't think I can ever remember。
preaching anything from 2 Peter in the last 25 years.。
But it is an important book。
and it is an important book with an important message.。
And the clue came before Lent in 1 Peter 5.。
I wanna turn to it before we start.。
'Cause 1 Peter 5 said this, verse 8.。
Be alert.。
Be alert and of sober mind.。
"Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion,。
"looking for someone to devour.。
"Resist him, standing firm in the faith。
"because you know that the family of believers。
"throughout the world is undergoing。
"the same kind of sufferings."。
It is why we have called this short series,。
"Beware, but Grow."。
Beware means to look out, keep your eyes open, stay alert.。
I wanna tell you a story about a college professor。
who had a mysterious habit of removing a tennis ball。
from his jacket pocket as he walked into the lecture.。
He would set it on the corner of his podium.。
And after giving the lecture at the end of the day,。
he would once again pick up the tennis ball,。
place it in his jacket pocket and leave the room.。
No one ever understood why he did this。
until one day a student fell asleep during the lecture.。
(audience laughing)。
The professor didn't miss a word of his lecture。
as he walked up to the podium, picked up the tennis ball。
and he threw it.。
He hit the sleeping student squarely on top of the head.。
I'm much too kind to do that, I did it on his chest.。
The next day, the professor walked into the room,。
reached in his jacket and removed a baseball.。
No one ever fell asleep in class the rest of the semester.。
As your pastors here at KFCI,。
our heart for you is 100% in line with Peter's message.。
That's why I'm so excited to preach this message tonight.。
We want to protect you from harm.。
God has been speaking to us about being shepherds.。
And the main job of a shepherd is to protect their flock.。
At the same time, God has been speaking to us。
about being gardeners.。
Gardeners tend their plants and help them to grow.。
It is our desire to help you and to help this church grow,。
not necessarily numerically.。
And tonight I'm gonna use 2 Peter 1,。
especially the first 11 verses。
to explain how we can grow in the knowledge of Christ.。
Now I'm not talking about knowledge。
that enables you to pass an exam。
or get a theological degree,。
although there's nothing wrong with any of this.。
But our heart is, and hear my heart on this,。
not so much that you would know about Christ,。
but that you would know Christ。
and that you would grow in the knowledge of Him.。
And to illustrate that, I firstly wanna talk about。
the gift of knowledge, the gift, G-I-F-T.。
Now, if anybody in the early church。
knew the importance about being alert other than George,。
it was the Apostle Peter.。
He had a tendency in his early years to feel overconfident。
when danger was near and to overlook his master's warnings.。
Look at the Gospels.。
He rushed ahead when he should have waited.。
He slept when he should have prayed.。
He talked when he should have listened.。
He was a courageous but careless Christian.。
To be honest, I identify with Peter quite a lot.。
But he learned his lesson。
and he wanted to help us learn it too.。
And the lesson was in those four letters, G-R-O-W, grow.。
In his first epistle, you will remember,。
Peter emphasised the grace of God.。
We talked, didn't we, week after week。
about the grace of God.。
But in his second letter,。
his emphasis is on the knowledge of God.。
The word know or knowledge is used at least 13 times。
in this short epistle.。
As I said, this word does not mean。
a mere intellectual understanding of some truth,。
though that is included.。
It means a living participation in the truth.。
The best way to detect falsehood。
is to understand the characteristics of the truth.。
And what I wanna cover tonight。
is the three most important affirmations。
that Peter made about the true Christian life.。
And each one is a consequence of the previous one.。
You'll see this from the diagram.。
Peter says this.。
Firstly, he says the Christian life begins with faith.。
But the faith results in spiritual growth.。
And that thirdly, spiritual growth brings practical results.。
Have you got that?。
Let's take them one at a time.。
Firstly, the Christian life begins with faith.。
Peter called it like precious faith.。
It means our standing with the Lord today。
is the same as the apostle centuries ago.。
The ESV calls it a faith of equal standing.。
To those who through the righteousness of our God。
and Saviour Jesus Christ have received a faith。
as precious as ours is what Peter said.。
They had no special advantages over us。
because they were privileged to walk with Christ,。
see Him with their own eyes and share in His miracles.。
It is not necessary to see the Lord with our human eyes。
in order to love Him, trust Him and share His glory.。
But the first thing that we see very clearly is this.。
That this faith is in a person.。
Let me read it to you.。
Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ.。
To those who through the righteousness of our God。
and Saviour Jesus Christ have received a faith。
as precious as ours, grace and peace be yours in abundance。
through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.。
Faith is in a person and that person is Jesus Christ,。
the Son of God, the Saviour.。
From the very outset of his letter,。
Peter affirmed the deity of Jesus Christ.。
God and our Saviour are not two different persons.。
They described one person, Jesus Christ.。
This is one of the New Testament's clearest declarations。
of the divinity of Christ.。
A Saviour is one who brings salvation.。
And the word salvation was familiar。
to the people of that day.。
In their vocabulary, it meant deliverance from trouble,。
particularly deliverance from the enemy.。
It also carried the idea of health and safety.。
A physician was looked on as a Saviour。
because he helped deliver the body。
from pain and limitations.。
A victorious general was a Saviour。
because he delivered the people from defeat.。
Even a wise official was a Saviour。
because he kept the nation in order。
and delivered it from confusion and decay.。
And for us, it is easy to see how the title Saviour。
applies to our Lord Jesus Christ.。
He is indeed the great physician。
who heals our heart from the sickness of sin.。
He is the victorious conqueror。
who has defeated our enemies,。
sin, death, Satan, hell, and leading us in triumph.。
He is God and our Saviour.。
And in order to be our Saviour,。
he had to give his life upon the cross。
and die for our sins.。
And Pastor Michelle shared this with us。
very clearly last week.。
Now, these verses tell us that our Lord Jesus Christ。
has three spiritual commodities。
that can be secured from nobody else.。
Righteousness, grace, and peace.。
We cannot get these from anybody else.。
When you trust him as your Saviour,。
his righteousness becomes your righteousness.。
And you are given a right standing before God.。
You could never earn this righteousness.。
It is a gift of God to those who believe.。
Grace is God's favour to the undeserving.。
God in his mercy does not give us what we do deserve.。
God in his grace gives us what we don't deserve.。
And the result of this experience is peace.。
Peace with God and the peace of God.。
In fact, God's grace and peace are multiplied,。
the ESV tells us, towards us as we walk with him。
and trust his promises.。
So yes, this faith is in a person.。
But secondly, this faith involves God's power.。
Verse three,。
The Christian life begins with saving faith.。
Faith in the person of Jesus Christ.。
But when you get to know Jesus Christ personally,。
you also experience God's power through the Holy Spirit.。
And this power produces life and godliness.。
You see, the unsaved sinner is dead.。
And only Christ can raise him from the dead.。
When you are born into the family of God。
through faith in Christ, you become complete.。
God gives you everything that you will ever need。
for life and godliness.。
Nothing has to be added.。
God never has to recall any of his models。
because something is lacking or faulty.。
It's great to have some babies in church.。
I love this.。
And just as a baby has genetic structure。
that determines how they will grow.。
Thanks for the visual aids guys, by the way, it's fantastic.。
So the believer is genetically structured。
to experience glory and goodness.。
Other versions say glory and excellence.。
One day, we will all be like Jesus Christ.。
We have been called to his eternal glory.。
And we will share that glory when Jesus Christ returns。
and takes his people to heaven.。
But we should not wait until we get to heaven。
to be like Jesus Christ.。
In our character and conduct,。
he should reveal his beauty and grace today.。
And so this faith is in a person.。
This faith involves God's power.。
But this faith also involves God's promises.。
Verse four, through these he has given us his very great,。
very great and precious promises.。
So that through them you might participate。
in the divine nature.。
Having escaped the corruption in the world。
caused by evil desires.。
God's promises are great.。
They're great because they come from a great God.。
And they will lead to a great life.。
They are precious because their value is beyond calculation.。
If we lost the word of God,。
there will be no way to replace it.。
I thought about it, Peter's a little bit like Gollum。
in the Lord of the Rings trilogy.。
He must have liked the word, my precious.。
'Cause if we look at his epistles,。
he wrote about precious faith, precious promises,。
precious blood, precious stone, precious saviour.。
My precious.。
When the sinner believes on the Lord Jesus Christ,。
the Spirit of God uses the word of God。
to impart the life and nature of God within.。
A baby shares the nature of his parents。
and the person born of God。
shares the divine nature of God.。
The lost sinner is dead,。
but the Christian is alive。
because he shares the divine nature.。
The lost sinner is decaying because of his corrupt nature,。
but the Christian can experience a dynamic life of godliness。
because he has a divine nature within.。
Mankind is under a bondage of corruption,。
but the believer shares the freedom of growth。
that is part of possessing the divine nature.。
And because we possess this divine nature,。
we have completely escaped the defilement。
and decay in this present world.。
If we feed the new nature,。
the nourishment of the word of God,。
we will have little interest in the garbage,。
the laptop of the world.。
But if we make provision for the flesh,。
our sinful nature will lust after the old sins。
and we will disobey God.。
Godly living is a result of cultivating。
the new nature within.。
So yes, the Christian life begins with faith,。
but it doesn't end there.。
We will go one step further.。
Faith results in spiritual growth.。
I spoke about the gift of knowledge.。
Now I want to cover the growth of knowledge.。
Let me read it to you.。
For this reason, make every effort to add to your faith,。
goodness, and to goodness, knowledge,。
and to knowledge, self-control,。
and to self-control, perseverance,。
and to perseverance, godliness,。
and to godliness, mutual affection,。
and to mutual affection, love.。
My friends, where there is life, there must be growth.。
New birth, exciting as it is, is not the end.。
It's the beginning.。
God gives all His children all they need。
to live godly lives, but, and it's a big but,。
His children must apply themselves。
and be diligent to use the means of grace He has provided.。
I need to tell you today,。
spiritual growth is not automatic.。
It requires cooperation with God。
and the application of spiritual diligence and discipline.。
We've put up on the screen seven characteristics。
of the godly life, but we must not think of them。
as seven beads on a string,。
or even seven stages of development.。
The word translated add here。
really means to supply generously.。
In other words, we develop one quality。
as we exercise another.。
These graces relate to each other。
the way the branch relates to the trunk。
and the twigs to the branch.。
Like the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5,。
these qualities grow out of life。
and out of a vital relationship with Jesus Christ.。
It is not enough to let go and let God.。
You know, it's a popular thing, a petition.。
As though spiritual growth was God's work alone.。
Literally Peter said,。
"Make every effort to bring alongside."。
And we have a picture here。
of the father and the child working together.。
Seven qualities that result from faith,。
goodness, knowledge, self-control, perseverance,。
godliness, mutual goodness and love.。
It is impossible for fallen human nature。
to manufacture these seven qualities of Christian character.。
They must be produced by the Holy Spirit.。
Now to be sure, there are unsaved people。
who possess amazing self-control and perseverance.。
But these virtues point to them and not to the Lord.。
They get the glory.。
When God produces the beautiful nature。
of His Son in a Christian,。
it is God who receives the praise and the glory.。
Because we have this divine nature,。
we can grow spiritually。
and develop this kind of Christian character.。
And so my third point,。
the Christian life begins with faith.。
Faith results in spiritual growth.。
And spiritual growth brings practical results.。
Let's read on.。
Verse eight, "For if you possess these qualities。
in increasing measure,。
they will keep you from being ineffective。
and unproductive in your knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
For whoever does not have them is nearsighted and blind,。
forgetting they have been cleansed from their past sins.。
Therefore, my brothers and sisters,。
make every effort to confirm your calling and election.。
For if you do these things, you will never stumble。
and you will receive a rich welcome。
into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ."。
But the big question is,。
how can the believer be certain。
that he is growing spiritually?。
Peter gives three evidences here in verses eight and nine。
of true spiritual growth.。
Number one, fruitfulness in verse eight.。
Christian character is an end in itself,。
but it is also a means to an end.。
The more we become like Jesus Christ,。
the more the Spirit can use us in witness and service.。
Peter tells us that the believer who is not growing。
is ineffective and unproductive.。
His knowledge of Jesus Christ。
is producing nothing practical in his life.。
I need to tell you that some of the most effective Christians。
I have known are people without dramatic talents。
and special abilities or even exciting personalities.。
Yet God has used them in a marvellous way.。
Why?。
Because they are becoming more and more like Jesus Christ.。
They have the kind of character and conduct。
that God can trust with blessing.。
They are fruitful because they've been faithful.。
They are effective because they are growing。
in their Christian experience.。
These beautiful qualities of character do exist within us。
because we possess the divine nature.。
We must cultivate them so that they increase。
and produce fruit in and through our lives.。
That is why God has been speaking to the staff here。
about being gardeners, producing fruit,。
cultivating fruit in and through our lives.。
Secondly, vision.。
The unsaved person is in the dark。
because Satan has blinded his mind.。
A person has to be born again before his eyes are open。
and we can see the kingdom of God.。
But after our eyes are open,。
it's important that we increase our vision。
and see all that what God wants us to see.。
Nearsighted, if I take this off.。
Nearsighted is a picture of someone closing。
or squinting their eyes,。
unable to see at a distance.。
Jesus admonished his disciples,。
"Lift up your eyes and look to the fields.。
They are already white to the harvest."。
I say to you tonight, church, lift up your eyes。
and look outside this building here in Admiralty.。
The fields are white.。
For the harvest.。
You remember the Revelation series, dear church?。
I believe that some congregations today。
are like the church in Lydus here.。
They are so proud they have been made rich。
and increased with goods and they have need of nothing.。
And they do not realise they are wretched,。
miserable, poor, blind and naked.。
It's a tragedy to be spiritually nearsighted,。
but it's even greater tragedy to be blind.。
My friends, this church, KFCI, is a church with a mission.。
Let's cultivate gratitude in our hearts。
and sharpen our spiritual vision.。
Life is too brief and the needs of the world are too great。
for God's people to be walking around with their eye closed.。
And thirdly, security.。
The growing Christian walks with confidence。
because he knows, he knows he is secure in Christ.。
Peter pointed out the calling and election go together.。
You'll see in the text.。
The same God who elects his people。
also ordains the means to call them.。
The two must go together.。
Peter pointed out the election is no excuse。
for spiritual immaturity。
or for the lack of effort in the Christian life.。
In fact, Peter, as in verse five,。
uses the expression time and time again, make every effort.。
And whilst it's true that God must work in us。
before we can do His will,。
it is also true that we must be willing for God to work。
and we must cooperate with Him.。
Divine election must never be an excuse。
for human laziness.。
Can I say it again?。
Divine election must never be an excuse。
for human laziness.。
A Christian who is sure of his election and calling。
will never stumble,。
but will prove through a consistent life。
that he is truly a child of God.。
In fact, the growing Christian。
can look forward to an abundant entrance。
into the eternal kingdom.。
The Greeks use this phrase to describe the welcome given。
to Olympic winners when they return home.。
I believe with my whole heart,。
if we make a lavish provision to grow spiritually,。
God will make lavish provision for us when we enter heaven.。
Just think of the blessings。
that the growing Christians enjoy.。
Fruitfulness, vision, security,。
and heaven's best.。
All this and heaven too.。
The rest of 2 Peter 1,。
I haven't got time to talk about tonight,。
speaks about Christ's glory and the prophetic words.。
Peter contrasts the truth about Christ revealed by God。
with the falsehood of man-made myths.。
I believe that an important quality for a shepherd。
is to hear the voice of God.。
As your leaders, we are committed to hearing God's voice.。
A year ago, almost exactly a year ago,。
I felt God say to me,。
"Call a three-day fast for Hong Kong。
"and preach the book of Esther."。
Others had a similar call about the fast,。
and literally hundreds of thousands of Christians。
around the world fasted and prayed for our city.。
I remember one morning getting up early。
and speaking to 92 pastors in New York City。
about the fast that we're having in Hong Kong.。
But a word of warning,。
please test anything we or anyone else says。
that we claim is from God.。
Discern whether it is in fact from God.。
And Peter tells us this at the end of chapter one,。
"For prophecy never had its origin in the human will,。
"but prophets through humans spoke from God。
"as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit."。
And that's a plug for James。
because James will next week be speaking to us。
about Peter's warning on false prophets and false teachers.。
But I wanna conclude by saying, by repeating,。
the Christian life begins with faith.。
But that faith must lead to spiritual growth,。
otherwise it's dead faith.。
And dead faith is not saving faith.。
Faith leads to growth,。
and growth leads to practical results in life and service.。
And I would tell you that people。
who have this kind of Christian experience,。
are not likely to fall prey to false teachers.。
Could you stand up as I ask the band to come back, please?。
Even what the enemy meant for evil,。
he turns it for our good and for his glory.。
I'm gonna ask you all to do one very simple thing,。
it's really simple tonight, okay?。
And if you're in one of the overflow rooms,。
or even if you're sitting at home,。
maybe you could just get up for a moment.。
I'm gonna ask you, each one of you,。
to just take a step of faith.。
And what we're gonna do literally,。
I've worked out if we're socially distanced,。
and we all take a step of faith,。
we will still be socially distanced, right?。
So don't take two steps of faith, okay?。
Now, I think sometimes it's very important,。
sometimes to enact this, to say to God,。
"Look, I am willing, whatever it is,。
"to take this step of faith,。
"because I believe that this faith。
"will be the thing that leads me into your presence,。
"will lead me to your promises,。
"will lead me to the things that you have for me."。
And I believe as we do it together, as KFCI,。
God has got great plans for us.。
And I have to say, we've gone through this COVID period,。
we've gone through all this, and we're here tonight,。
and there are people online,。
and God has got great plans for us.。
But we have to take that step of faith together.。
So on the count of three, we're gonna do that,。
we're gonna take a step of faith,。
and then James is gonna lead us in this song.。
And let's declare it tonight.。
Even what the enemy meant for evil,。
you turn it for our good and for your glory.。
One, two, three.。
Father, we take this step of faith together.。
We believe, Lord, that faith leads to life.。
God, give us a life, Lord.。
There's a life that is following you.。
Lord, may we fulfil the destiny,。
the promise you have for each one of us as individuals,。
and us as a church, as we take this step of faith together.。
In Jesus' name, and everybody said, amen.。
Let's declare it together.。
