Good evening everyone. Welcome to KFCI online service. My name is Michelle and I serve as。
one of the pastors here. We're so glad that you've tuned in so that we can worship God。
together. Now today we're very excited because we are going to be listening to a sermon on。
how to cross the generations. Now many a times we do want to connect with people who are。
in different generations than we are, but we just don't know how. And yet we know that。
it is in God's heart for us to be united as one so that we can praise and worship Him。
together. Now before we get to that sermon, I do want to read for us from Psalm 145 verse。
1 to 5. So please follow along and see how God is speaking to you today. Psalm 145 verse。
1. I will exalt you, my God the King. I will praise your name forever and ever. Every day。
I will praise you and extol your name forever and ever. Great is the Lord and most worthy。
of praise. His greatness no one can fathom. One generation commands your works to another.。
They tell of your mighty acts. They speak of the glorious splendor of your majesty.。
Now let us turn our hearts to worship Him with music and with songs.。
[Music]。
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come quickly,。
your will be done, on earth as it is. In heaven, let heaven come to earth as it is.。
In heaven, let heaven come.。
[Music]。
Let's sing our Father.。
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come quickly,。
your will be done, we sing on earth as it is. In heaven, let heaven come to earth as it is.。
In heaven, let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
Let heaven come.。
[Instrumental]。
God I look to you, I won't be overwhelmed.。
Give me vision, to see things I could do.。
God I look to you, you're where my hope comes from.。
Give me wisdom, you know just what to do.。
God I look to you, you're where my hope comes from.。
Sing again, God I look to you.。
God I look to you, I won't be overwhelmed.。
Give me vision, to see things I could do.。
God I look to you, you're where my hope comes from.。
Give me wisdom, you know just what to do.。
I will love you.。
I will love you Lord my strength.。
I will love you Lord my shield.。
I will love you Lord my rock.。
Forever all my days, I will love you God.。
Sing God I look to you.。
God I look to you, I won't be overwhelmed.。
Give me vision, to see things I could do.。
God I look to you, you're where my hope comes from.。
Give me wisdom, you know just what to do.。
I will love you.。
I will love you Lord my strength.。
I will love you Lord my shield.。
I will love you Lord my rock.。
Forever all my days, I will love you God.。
Sing again I will love you.。
I will love you Lord my strength.。
I will love you Lord my shield.。
I will love you Lord my rock.。
Forever all my days, I will love you God.。
Hallelujah.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Forever all my days, hallelujah.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Forever all my days, hallelujah.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Hallelujah, our God reigns.。
Forever all my days, hallelujah.。
I will love you.。
I will love you Lord my strength.。
I will love you Lord my shield.。
I will love you Lord my rock.。
Forever all my days, I will love you God.。
Let's sing to God I will love you.。
I will love you Lord my strength.。
I will love you Lord my shield.。
I will love you Lord my rock.。
Forever all my days, I will love you God.。
Wow, that was a wonderful worship.。
And at this time I do want to share with you about some things that have been happening at KFCI.。
And also some other events that I think you'll be very interested in.。
So now let us watch KFCI announcements together.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Alarm sound]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
After a long day, do you feel empty and unfulfilled?。
There's more to life than this.。
Come join us at Alpha as we discuss life questions.。
Why are we here?。
Is there more to life than this?。
Does God have a purpose for me?。
Come join us and we will discover more.。
[Music]。
Fear and fear have creeped our city.。
As God's people, it is time to stand and fast for our city, our home, our people.。
This is a spiritual battle.。
The enemy wants to kill, steal, and destroy.。
But remember, our God is for us.。
Our God is for us.。
Let's stand to the gap of fasting and prayer to cover the city.。
Oh Lord, let faith arise.。
Let faith arise.。
In Jesus' name.。
[Music]。
As you've just heard from our announcements,。
we do hope that you come and join Alpha and also for the fast.。
Now, if you're new to our church or if you're visiting or haven't been connecting with us for some time,。
please use this time to scan the QR code and also really to let us know how you're doing。
and how we can pray for you.。
And at the same time, once we've received your information,。
we can reach out to you and give you some information about some upcoming events that are happening here.。
At the same time, we're very hopeful that we can meet in person very soon.。
So please watch for our latest update in our website.。
Now, at this time, we want to watch a video together in which we've interviewed a few people。
to get out their thoughts on what bridging the generations look like.。
Hello, church. We're here at KFCI. We've got Carmen with us today.。
Carmen, I just wanted to ask,。
what do you think is the most important thing to bridge the gap between the different generations?。
So understanding is the most important thing, which I think,。
because I love to have my thoughts to be understood by my parents。
and also maybe people who are older than me.。
I think, yeah, understanding is a very important one.。
Yeah, I think that's a great one, Carmen. Let's see what other people have to say.。
The most important part about crossing generations is acceptance.。
Because while you might not agree with the other person's views,。
you can accept them and love them despite of it.。
We have to care about the older generations and learn from them。
so that we can set an example for the youngest generation.。
To show Christ's love to our next generations.。
So we have to give them this kind of trust and respect and understanding.。
You need to have guts. If you don't have guts, pray to God and he'll give you wisdom.。
We all need the courage and step up to talk to them.。
We need all generations working together。
because the older generations have a lot of experience more than the younger ones。
and they're eager to listen and learn from the older generations.。
I firmly believe that united single-minded passion for the glory of God。
is essential for crossing generations.。
The worship of God, that is God getting the praise and honor that he deserves。
and us having our deepest wants and needs satisfied in him.。
I think that what crossing generations really means is。
understanding those differences and those different struggles。
and seeing how each generation tackles them in a different way。
and learning from that and learning from one another in that way.。
I strongly believe you need to be low.。
Now we're going to pray for the generations.。
And firstly I'd like to pray for the younger generation.。
Father God, we thank you, Lord, for the younger generation.。
We thank you, Lord, for the life that we see within them.。
We thank you for their vitality, for their zeal for you.。
I pray, Lord, that we as the older generation would recognize the gifts,。
the talents of our young generation and that we would empower them.。
Lord, that we would work together for your glory.。
And I just bless the younger generation of this church and this city。
to know their God, to know who they are, to know their identity,。
that they are sons and daughters of the living God.。
And as I pray for Bonnie, Lord, I pray for all of our young people.。
Lord, that each one of them, I call them now into the destiny。
that you have prepared for them.。
Lord, prepare them for the future.。
But Lord, use them in the present, in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Lord, just thank you for John, Lord.。
Thank you for so many others like him who are really passionate。
about reaching out to the younger generation, Lord,。
who are really ready to just teach and just equip the younger generation。
to allow them to move into their calling as future leaders, Lord.。
I just pray for the older generation, Lord.。
I thank you for their passion for you.。
I thank you for their experience, for their zeal,。
for their dedication towards you as your loyal servants, Lord.。
So Lord, I just pray for them.。
I pray that, yeah, Lord, that you would really give them the patience。
and the wisdom to keep leading this younger generation, Lord,。
to be able to pass on their years of service to us, Lord.。
And I also pray, Lord, that you would keep them and bless them.。
And just, yeah, Lord, just pour your blessings over them。
and their children and their children, Lord.。
I just pray all this in your wonderful name, Lord,。
and I pray this in the name of Lord Jesus.。
Amen.。
It's great that we've been able to pray.。
Our other prayer is that God would use us as a team,。
the younger generation and the older generation, together.。
And now we're going to pass over to Pastor James for our sermon.。
[Pastor James]。
Good evening, everyone.。
It's a joy to be able to bring you the Word today.。
And we are so missing everyone just being able to gather,。
and we are really, really close now.。
We're praying that in these coming weeks we will have a chance to just be together again.。
Today I'm going to be talking about how we cross generations.。
You know, coming to Hong Kong, one of the biggest inspirations for me。
has been meeting Pastor John and Pastor Peter,。
who have this vision to embrace this next generation.。
And this last year, the next generation have had a torch shone on them。
because the next generation are showing some of the feelings。
or the frustrations they have about their future.。
And we know that the next generation that is coming up in Hong Kong。
is in deep need of the Gospel, in deep need of hope。
and being told that everything is going to be okay.。
And so for us as a church, the question really remains is。
how do we serve this next generation?。
How do we cross generations in our ministries?。
And in my work with Young Life now, that is what it's all about.。
How do we introduce the next generation to Jesus Christ?。
And then for a parachurch, how do we work together with the church,。
all being a part of the body of Christ in solving this problem?。
For me, as we talk about how to cross generations,。
the first thing we need to think about is before we even get to the solution,。
we first need to understand the problem.。
And the problem is this.。
There is difficulty with doing next generation work。
because there is such a thing as a generation gap.。
The generation gap is there because generations are simply different.。
And they've always been different since the beginning of mankind.。
But they've been even more amplified now because of technology,。
because of globalization.。
So what we have now are generations are becoming so divided。
in their way of thinking and their way of acting.。
For example, we have a generation called the Baby Boomers。
who are on the whole born in between the '40s and the '60s.。
A lot of the current society's leaders are part of this generation.。
And this generation, the Baby Boomers, they come from a time。
where things were not so good in Hong Kong,。
when Hong Kong was still making small steps。
into becoming this big city that it is right now.。
But these Baby Boomers have something very interesting,。
is that in this kind of maybe poorer beginning,。
they have learned to get it done.。
They are called the Get It Done Generation.。
They work hard.。
The mantra of this generation is survival and community.。
Things were tough, so it's all about surviving.。
It's all about function.。
It's all about efficiency.。
And it's all about community, sticking together.。
So they would trust leadership.。
They would trust authority.。
They would put their trust in establishments.。
So that's the Baby Boomers.。
And then from the Baby Boomers, you move into what they call the Gen X.。
And this is actually only a very small decade.。
It fits snugly in between the Baby Boomers and the Millennials.。
And these guys have started to learn to become a bit more independent.。
They're a bit more ambitious。
because their parents have maybe paved the way for them.。
And then you reach this big group, which is the Millennials,。
born in the '70s all the way up to the '90s.。
And this group are very different from the Baby Boomers.。
If the Baby Boomers were about survival and community,。
the Millennials are about authenticity and vulnerability.。
They're about finding their own identity, their own calling.。
It's a lot more about feeling.。
It's a lot more about their own personal ambitions.。
They don't trust establishments as much.。
They don't trust institutions.。
Their trust in leadership is not the same as the Baby Boomers.。
And their language is different.。
If the Baby Boomers were more about honouring and respecting,。
the heart's cry of a Millennial is to be listened to and to be loved.。
And so even between these few generations, you see there are differences.。
And then you go further now into Gen Z,。
and the next one's called Alpha, which is the last decade.。
And these children are born into a society where technology is at their fingertips.。
They are used to talking more to Alexa than to their friends.。
They are used to using smartphones and smart devices.。
And they are in a completely different generation as well.。
So the question is this.。
How does a church do cross-generational work。
in a way that is able to kind of serve all the different generations?。
It is not an easy task, and I'm not going to be able to give you the answer,。
even within this sermon.。
But as I look through Scripture, as I look through the Word of God,。
there are some principles that I've found that are so key,。
so key for the body of Christ to be remembering。
as we head into cross-generational work.。
And I want to share three of them with you today.。
The first one is this.。
Whilst we're doing cross-generational work,。
the first thing we have to remember is that the church exists for all generations.。
There's a quote that I really love, and it says this.。
"There is a human tendency for each generation。
to believe and act as though the church exists for them."。
There is a human tendency for each generation to buy into the idea。
that the church was built for them, so everything is about them.。
The worship is tailored to their musical preferences.。
The sermons are preached in a style that is good for them.。
And when it's not, they get upset.。
The first key to doing cross-generational ministry is to remind everyone。
that we are all part of this generation.。
The people that are on this planet right now,。
the people that are in our churches right now,。
are all part of this generation,。
and we are all different parts of the body of Christ.。
1 Corinthians 12 talks about this, that there are different parts to the body,。
and I believe that is the same for the different generations.。
The diversity there is what makes it beautiful.。
Maybe someone in a generation who really values honour and respect and authority。
has so much good to bring to a church community,。
just as much as someone who maybe values more ambition and individuality and creativity.。
We all bring different parts to the body of Christ.。
We need to remember that all generations are part of this.。
You see, the problem is if you just focus on one generation,。
there's two real dangers that happen.。
One is the generation that you're targeting ends up thinking that this is all about them.。
And the other is the generations that you're not targeting feel neglected, feel left out.。
But if the church, imagine a church where people of all ages。
embrace the mission to serve each other, regardless of age,。
bringing what they have, their experiences, their upbringing, their personalities,。
bringing it into the body of Christ and allowing God to create this masterpiece, this mosaic,。
that includes all the different generations, that is the first key.。
We are all in this together.。
There is no next generation and previous generation.。
We are all this generation. That's number one.。
Number two is this.。
In that diversity, unity is only achieved through humility.。
Humility is the key.。
Now, what does that look like?。
Because when we have so many people from so many different ages,。
the diversity is incredible.。
The only way we can get everyone together and to stay together is if everyone remains humble,。
if everyone is open to the other's differences, to the other's preferences.。
Philippians 2 talks about this.。
Paul says, "If you have any encouragement in Christ,。
if there's any participation in the Spirit, be of the same mind, the same love, be of one accord.。
Consider others more significant than yourselves. Put their interests first."。
What does this look like?。
It looks like someone from one generation going to another saying,。
"Hey, this isn't really my musical style, but I know it's your jam,。
and I'm willing to go with it, and I'm willing to follow it because I love you.。
Because I love you, I want to put your interests above mine."。
And then it's the other person saying, "Look, I don't like this kind of style of preaching,。
but I know that it speaks to you.。
I'm willing to accommodate this and have this within our church。
because I want to build up the body of Christ as one."。
It's humility.。
You see, if we want true unity, there has to be diversity.。
Pastor John has said time and time again,。
if we are just all the same people just gathering together,。
that's not really unity, that's uniformity.。
That's what he said.。
If we want true unity, it's different people coming from different generations。
with different preferences all getting together.。
And the only way it works is humility.。
It's someone looking across the aisle and saying,。
"You are worth it. I love you just as I love myself,。
and I'm willing to put you above me."。
That is the key here, and that ties in with the first one.。
It requires all generations to be humble.。
It requires the people who are yearning and desiring to be listened to and loved.。
So also recognize that there are people here who actually,。
their way of expressing love is through honor and respect and provision,。
and it just looks different.。
It's being aware of the problem so we can find the solution together.。
We obtain unity despite diversity through humility.。
The final one is this, and this is where I want to dive a little bit。
into the scripture as we talk about this.。
If we are to really want to do cross-generational work,。
the key thing here in this final point is this.。
We must invest and empower young leaders.。
We must.。
You see, there's this tendency in our culture here,。
which is a very autocratic, hierarchical culture。
where you have to earn the right to be heard。
and you have to essentially do your time before you become a leader.。
But the problem is if we want to do cross-generational work,。
we need to pick out some of the young leaders,。
the young promising leaders now, and invest in them and empower them。
and also to take a risk on them.。
We've all been there where we're trying to teach someone younger than us something。
and they're just not doing it as well as we can,。
so we end up doing it for them and we don't let them do it.。
But then they don't learn, and by the time they do learn, it's too late.。
They're disillusioned, they're frustrated, their gift has gone to waste.。
If we are to do effective cross-generational work,。
we have to identify, invest, and empower these young leaders now.。
And a great example of this is in scripture.。
It's in the man Timothy.。
See, Timothy, we all hear about, because maybe the most famous passage。
is the one that Paul writes to Timothy as a mentor writing to a mentee。
and saying, you know, 1 Timothy 4.12,。
"Don't let anyone look down on you because you are young."。
Set an example.。
And so we know that Timothy was a church leader who was relatively young,。
maybe in his 30s when he was leading a church,。
when Paul was writing to him about this.。
But if you rewind even further, if you rewind the story。
all the way back to the time where Paul first meets Timothy,。
I find some really interesting things that happen.。
In Acts 16, Paul goes on his missionary journey.。
He goes to Derbe and he goes to Lystra.。
And when he reaches there, he meets this young man called Timothy,。
who was likely just a teenager at the time.。
Timothy was extremely interesting.。
He was the first second-generation Christian.。
He was also bicultural.。
His mother, Eunice, was a Jew.。
His father was a Greek.。
And what happens in those first few verses in Acts 16 is we see Paul。
meeting this young man, this young teenager, this boy, Timothy.。
And Timothy had a good reputation.。
That's what it says in the Scripture there, that he was of good repute.。
He was a "guide."。
He was going to the church and he was probably top of his Sunday school class,。
doing well, but he was still a young man nonetheless.。
And then you have this apostle Paul coming in from a different place,。
reaching this little town, and from there he identifies this young man, Timothy.。
And then what does he do?。
He invests in him and he empowers him.。
He looks at this young man and says, "You come with me to minister together.。
You may be young in age, but I see something in you,。
and I want to take you with me.。
I want to take you under my wing and do this."。
That is what we need to do.。
We need to look at some of the young people and we need to say,。
"How can I invest in you?。
How can I pave the way for you so that you can become an effective minister。
and a devoted believer and follower of Christ in your own right?。
How can I let you start making decisions?。
How can I let you make mistakes yourself so you can learn from them?"。
It's willing to give up this fear of making mistakes,。
fear of looking bad, and fear of shame, but this is saying,。
"Hey, the next generation, the young people are important,。
and they'll be wanting to serve across the board.。
We need leaders across the board."。
And you see, with Timothy, it's interesting.。
It wasn't only the Apostle Paul and outside coming in to invest in him.。
It was also his mother and grandmother in 2 Timothy 1 and 5.。
We see that.。
Paul's writing to Timothy much later on now, and he's saying,。
"I saw a sincere faith in you, Timothy,。
that I first saw in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice."。
So what we see here is that not only are church brothers and sisters,。
church leaders such as Paul, willing to invest in someone young like Timothy,。
but also it starts within the home that Timothy himself was invested to。
by his grandmother and his mother.。
"It takes a village to raise a child" is the quote that we often hear.。
"It takes a whole church community to raise a leader."。
We need to be committed to investing and empowering the young people。
because they are the ones that are going to be the future of this city as well.。
But they won't survive, and they won't do well if those of us who are more experienced,。
more mature, more wise, more weathered,。
they won't do well unless this group of people chooses to invest。
and pour into these people and to give them opportunities and to give them chances.。
That is how we start doing cross-generational work.。
And I truly believe that we are entering into a new norm in this city.。
What we knew before may be changed when we come out of this pandemic,。
and there are going to be new ways, and God we know is moving in this city。
in new and mysterious and beautiful ways.。
My prayer, our prayer as a staff here, is that our church, the body of Christ,。
will be mobilised and will be committed to serving the people of all generations。
and being willing to follow God's guidance and his spirit in doing this.。
So my prayer to you, brother and sister, is as you receive this word,。
start thinking and start praying to God.。
Who are the people that God has placed in your life, whether younger or older?。
Who are the people that he has placed in your life who you can start reaching out to,。
who you can start investing into?。
And remember, some of these people will make you feel uncomfortable.。
Why? Because they're different. They're younger, they're older,。
they have different backgrounds, they're from a different class maybe.。
But the goal here is if we're to do cross-generational ministry,。
we have to be willing to be comfortably uncomfortable,。
because that is what Christ did for us, that he would leave heaven's throne,。
remove the comfort from himself, come into a world, become completely uncomfortable,。
and then to subject himself to death on a cross, to lay his life down for us,。
and to die, but then to rise again so that we can identify with his death and his resurrection.。
And if we truly believe that, and if we truly do that,。
we will then be on to a great start in how we lay our lives down for those in our church, regardless of age.。
Bless you.。
James, that was an incredible message.。
After a message like that and a subject like Linking the Generations,。
there's only one song we could go out with.。
This was a song that was written just about eight weeks ago,。
but a song which has gone out all around the world and has been blessing generations in every nation.。
I want you to join in tonight to sing this for you to be blessed,。
and for your children and your children and your children's children to be blessed as we worship together.。
[Music]。
The Lord bless you and keep you,。
Make his face shine upon us, be gracious to you.。
Lord, turn his face toward you and give you peace.。
The Lord bless you and keep you,。
Make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you.。
The Lord turn his face toward you and give you peace.。
Amen, Amen, Amen.。
The Lord bless you and keep you,。
Make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you.。
Lord, turn his face toward you and give you peace.。
Amen, Amen, Amen.。
Amen, Amen, Amen.。
Amen, Amen, Amen.。
[Music]。
Amen, Amen, Amen.。
May his favor be upon you in a thousand generations,。
in your family, in your children, in their children, in their children.。
May his favor be upon you in a thousand generations,。
in your family, in your children, in their children, in their children.。
May his favor be upon you in a thousand generations,。
in your family, in your children, in their children, in their children.。
May his presence go before you and behind you and beside you,。
all around you and within you.。
He is with you, he is with you in the morning, in the evening,。
in your coming, in your going, in your weeping and rejoicing.。
His for you, His for you, His for you, His for you, His for you!。
Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen!。
Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen!。
What an amazing service about crossing generations.。
Let us pray to the Lord now that He would bind us together.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are the head of our church.。
And we thank you that Lord you have blessed us as the body.。
That Lord you would connect us together from generation to generation.。
Help us Lord that you would bind us through the Holy Spirit.。
That we would cross any barriers that are in our way.。
So Lord we can expand your kingdom on earth.。
Lord bless us as we go that we can empower younger leaders.。
That Lord we can encourage one another and learn from one another.。
In Christ's name we pray, Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
