Hello again. Hello, hello. So we're going to jump into some scripture today and we're。
going to go through, we're carrying on with the book of Judges and I wanted you to turn。
to Judges 17 and 18. It's a strange piece of passage here and I'll confess to you, actually。
I wasn't even massively sure that I recollected the story that I'm about to read to you. It's。
likely that you won't have heard of this, a sermon on this passage before. So John 17。
and 18 is really about a guy called Micah and last week and the week before we had Pastor。
John Lee and John go through the great or at least the famous judge who is Samson and。
now we've ended up at this strange impasse in the book of Judges where the writer keeps。
telling us in those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in。
their own eyes and these next two chapters that I'm going to go through, I'm not going。
to have us read all of it together, but these next two chapters and the story that it tells。
is really quite a peculiar and rather ridiculous story and my prayer is that as we go through。
this as Michelle prayed, maybe quite appropriately, I hope you understand what's happening in。
this story and also the message that is coming from it as well. And I want to tell you a。
little bit about this story and you can follow along if you like as I kind of cite different。
verses here. And it's about a guy called Micah. Micah and he is a man who lives among the。
hills and the name Micah means who is like God. But Micah is a bit of an interesting。
man and the story starts straight away with saying that he stole money from his own mother.。
He stole 1100 pieces of silver and then he hears his mother cursing whoever stole this。
money. She didn't know it was him or really actually maybe she did, she was pretending.。
So she utters this curse out to him and says all the bad things that will happen to this。
person who stole this money. So he then confesses and then he says, "Oh mum, it was me."。
So chapter 17 verse 2 he says, "He said to his mother, 'The 1100 pieces of silver that。
were taken from you about which you uttered a curse and also spoke it in my ears, behold。
the silver is with me. I took it.'" So you have a grown man here who steals money from。
his own mother, hears her cursing and then goes to confess and gives it back to her.。
What's even more strange is that mum hearing her son confessing then says, "Oh," verse。
2 at the end, "Blessed be my son by the Lord." So she somehow praises him for stealing money。
and having the honesty to give it back. And then she says, "Oh thank God for my son who。
does this. I'm going to use the money that he gives to me to dedicate to the Lord." But。
he doesn't, she doesn't do the full thing either. When she gets the 1100 pieces of silver。
back she uses 200 and she uses it to make a carved image and a metal image. And so what。
ends up is in their house there is this shrine. He's basically creating for himself his own。
little tabernacle. He has a shrine, they've made an ephod and household gods and idols。
around. What's even more then, he ordains one of his own sons. So this tells you Micah。
is not a young, young, young man. He is a grown man and he ordains one of his sons to。
become the priest. And 17 verse 6, the writer reminds us here again, "In those days there。
was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes." And as if the story。
doesn't get even more just lame and weird, then a young man from Bethlehem is journeying。
and he walks around and he's a Levite. And he comes and he's looking for a place to stay.。
And so he goes past Micah's house and Micah meets him and goes, "You're a Levite." And。
I'll tell you a bit more about what a Levite was supposed to do. "You're a Levite. Why。
don't you come and stay with me? If you come to stay with me then I'll give you money."。
So 17 verse 10 says, "Micah said to him, 'Stay with me and be to me a father and a priest。
and I will give you 10 pieces of silver a year and a suit of clothes and your living.'。
And the Levite went in." So as he meets this Levite who's just journeying around looking。
for a place to stay, Micah takes him in and then Micah is now extremely chuffed with himself.。
Why? Because he's like, in verse 13 it says, "Now I know that the Lord will prosper me。
because I have a Levite as a priest." You see, the Levites were the tribe that were。
appointed, specially appointed and anointed to be the priests of Israel, to teach the。
Israelites how to worship and to teach them about God. So now Micah meets an OG priest.。
He meets a young man who's like, "If I have this guy in my house, my worship is going。
to be legit. It's going to be good and God will now bless me." Strange, right? But then。
it carries on getting even more weird in chapter 18. Again, 18 verse 1, "In those days there。
was no king in Israel." And now the writer talks about the tribe of people of Dan. Now。
the Danites, they were given a piece of land but unfortunately over the 300 years they。
weren't successful at kicking out the previous residents. In fact, they had stayed so they。
did not have any land of their own. So these Danites were also going around looking for。
a piece of land. And as they're walking around into the hills, they walk past Micah's house。
and they bump into the Levite who they would have, apparently they'd have seen before.。
And so they say, "We recognize you. Aren't you a priest?" And the Levite says, "Yeah,。
I'm living here now. This is my job. I basically just serve this one family and be their priest."。
And so these five guys from the tribe of Dan say, "Hey, could you ask God for us whether。
he'll be able to find us some land?" And then the Levite says, "Go. The Lord has his eye。
on you and go." And eventually they walk and they end up at a place called Laish. And they。
see that Laish is a good place. It's not really heavily guarded. It is a good place to live.。
So they head back home to their tribe and they gather 600 people and say, "Hey, we found。
a land called Laish. Let's go and invade it and let's capture it and take over it." As。
they're walking back to Laish to capture it, they stop by Micah's house and they're like,。
"Hey." The five guys that were there before, they were telling the rest of them, "Hey,。
this house is a bit strange. There's actually a priest there and there's loads of idols.。
You know, the owner of that house, Micah, he used a lot of money to make a shrine and。
an ephod and lots of idols. Why don't we go and ransack that place and basically burgle。
it and then we'll take all those idols and we'll take them into our own land." So they。
go up to the house, 600 men stand at the entrance. The five guys who were there before walk up。
to the house and start taking all the idols. The Levite priest is like, "Whoa, what's going。
on? Why are you coming to steal stuff?" And they tell him to keep quiet. "In fact, why。
don't you come with us? You know, it's better to be a priest to a whole tribe and clan than。
to just one house, right? Why don't you just come with us?" And then 18 verse 20 says,。
"And the priest's heart was glad and they left together." So they just make off and。
they head towards Laish. Micah comes home and finds that his house has been burgled,。
his priest is gone, and then he sees them from afar so he chases after them. When he。
gets them, he says in verse 24, chapter 18, "You take my gods that I made and the priest.。
What do I have left? What am I going to do?" And the people of Dan warn him, tell him,。
"Keep quiet, otherwise you'll get killed." And so Micah, seeing how strong they were,。
they leave. And pretty much that's the end of the story.。
Now I don't know about you, but as I was looking through this story, I thought it was a rather。
peculiar one about a guy called Micah who steals money from his mum, gives it back because。
he gets a bit scared, and then hires a Levite, and then eventually loses that Levite and。
all the idols that he made. And that's pretty much it. And as I'm looking at this story,。
I'm thinking, "What on earth is going on here?" There are so many stupid moments here. There。
are so many people doing strange and ridiculous things here. What do we have to learn from。
this? And I realised as I look at all the actions in this story, that really what we。
see here are a tonne of wrong motives everywhere. That there are wrong motives that lead to。
the wrong actions. And my question then is, how can we learn from this? How can we look。
at some of the motives that governs the people and the way they lived, and make sure that。
we don't have those same wrong motives in our hearts? And I want to split it into three。
separate things first. You know what? One second. My kids are screaming and I need to。
tell them just to be a little bit quiet. Give me five seconds. Anyway, moving on. So, the。
three wrong motives that we have. The three wrong motives I want to share with you today。
are one, the wrong motive for repentance. And then the wrong motive for service. And。
finally, the wrong motive for worship. Repentance, service and worship. We see all of them in。
this story. And they all are seemingly good things, but what we see is that these actions。
are driven by wrong motives and that's where the problem is. And I want to start with the。
first one. The wrong motives for repentance. You see, Micah here steals money from his。
own mother and then confesses when he hears her cursing the person who steals his money.。
And it makes me think, actually, this isn't really true repentance. He's not confessing。
because of his desire to be better. He's confessing because he's heard the curse that his mother。
uttered. And he's afraid of the consequences that he's facing. So, it really wasn't just。
because he was feeling guilty and that he shouldn't have done it, but he was afraid。
of the consequences. And it makes me think sometimes whether we have treated God and。
Christianity in the same way, that we believe in God or that we go to church, not necessarily。
because how good it is, but only really because we're afraid of what the bad things could。
be. And there's a temptation sometimes to treat Christianity as a bit of an insurance。
policy. I want to be a Christian because I don't want to go to hell. So, it's an insurance。
policy in the sense that, oh, you know what, we should do this because we really don't。
want to have any of that, so we're going to kind of stick to this. But really, that isn't。
real repentance. In fact, that motive is completely wrong. You see, we don't follow Christ. We。
don't believe in God just because we want to avoid bad things. But sometimes we have。
that, right? Or sometimes we say, oh, I really should go to church because I'm afraid of。
what the people will think if I stop going to church. I really should do my devotions。
today because if I don't, God maybe won't be so kind to me. Maybe he won't bless me.。
But you see, true repentance is recognising that we're going in the wrong direction and。
wanting to turn around, to strive for a new direction. It's not wanting to avoid hell,。
but rather it's wanting to pursue heaven. See, that would be the right motive. But sometimes。
we have these wrong motives where we are trying to avoid the bad things. And in some ways,。
we've got it wrong. And you know, Micah, it looks strange what he's doing. And it's a。
bit of a lame story. But Micah, the name means who is like God. And really, it's an ironic。
name because what we're seeing here is Micah, as we see as the story goes, he himself, in。
some ways, is trying to assume the role of God. And you can see it in his heart that。
he is not truly recognising his own sin. And he's not truly repenting. And the question。
really is what is sin? You know, this passage here, and the writer here in this book is。
always saying, in those days, there was no king. Everyone did what was right in their。
own eyes, implying that it wasn't right. And it wasn't right in God's eyes. And sometimes。
we have this idea of sin and evil. That it's something that's kind of like maybe the Joker。
from Batman. Or maybe it's someone who just murders thousands of people or is very violent。
or there is lusting or rape. And we have all these big words when we think of sin. But。
actually, sin isn't just those things. Sin can actually happen in the very ordinary.。
Actually, this story here, there isn't really a climax. It's just a bit of a lame story。
about people having wrong motives. So what we see here is that sin can just be a very。
ordinary thing. It can look very lame. Really, what sin means is that we have missed the。
mark. We have got the wrong motives. We're thinking in the wrong way. We have fallen。
short of God's highest. That is sin. Sin is making ourselves God, thinking that we're。
in complete control. And we see when we think we're God, when we think that we're in complete。
control of our lives, then we're not truly repenting. Because we aren't truly understanding。
that without him, we are nothing. We're not understanding the true depravity of ourselves.。
And in some ways, the book of Judges is highlighting to us the depravity of man. When we think。
we have got everything right, and Proverbs says this, don't think that you're wise in。
your own eyes. Fear the Lord. But what we have with Micah in his repentance, he's not。
fearing the Lord necessarily. He's just fearing bad things. And there is that difference.。
There is a wrong motive for repentance. And the second one is this. There is a wrong motive。
for service. You see, this Levite, so he is specifically anointed to be a priest. That。
was their role, to lead the nation, to teach people how to serve God, to love God, to teach。
them how to worship him and to perform the rituals in the tabernacle and in designated。
cities across the land. But you see, this Levite ends up sojourning and looking for。
a place to stay. Why? We're not actually sure. We don't know. But what we can know is actually。
if the Levites were specifically supposed to be priests, to be serving the Lord, they。
would have been supported by the other tribes. But we see here that Israel as a nation was。
falling short in their worship when a priest is not being looked after. So he's leaving。
home because he's got no money and he's going around looking for somewhere else to serve.。
The problem is we're seeing that his heart, his wrong motives for service are on show。
as well. Because why? As soon as he reaches a house that will give him money, that will。
give him a place to stay, he accepts it. See, Micah says here, "Stay with me and be to me。
a father and a priest and I will give you ten pieces of silver a year and a suit of。
clothes and your living." So as soon as someone says that, he's like, "Sure, I'll stay there.。
I'm looking for stability. I'm looking to be cared for." But you see, that wasn't the。
role of a Levite or a priest. They're not supposed to lead worship. They're not supposed。
to do their priestly duties in someone's home. They're supposed to do it in designated cities。
around the land. They're supposed to be leading worship services at the tabernacle. But this。
Levite in some ways you could say he sold out. He said, "Okay, I'll come and be your。
private priest. I'll stay with you. I'll condone you making idols. I'll speak on behalf of。
God even though God's not speaking through me." And so what we see here are there are。
wrong motives for service when we are not aligned with God's heart. We see here, and。
actually this speaks to me very strongly as a pastor. Because as a pastor and as leaders。
of the church, there's this temptation to just please the people around you. To go in。
some ways to, there are times where it feels as though we are wanting to just serve the。
people that we're at and actually take our eyes off God. But you see, if we are to truly。
serve we have to have the right motives. And I think sometimes, I don't know about you。
guys, growing up in a church or just in that kind of culture, you want to serve, you want。
to be in leadership, but not because you really love God, but just because of how that can。
help you in your own personal circumstances. How you can be respected more if you're seen。
as a leader in the church. How you can be admired and followed more if you are doing。
these acts of service. But what we see here is that when we have the wrong motives, things。
can turn upside down very, very quickly. See, this part convicts me because as a pastor。
and for me as a church, my prayer, and I know that the church is supposed to be almost the。
keeper of the standards for society around us. We're supposed to be the moral gatekeeper.。
We're supposed to show those around, outside, what God's highest really is. But often we。
sell out to the highest bidder. We sell out to the people who give us the most praise。
and we end up wanting to do what makes them happy. When really the church and its leaders,。
and this is including us, all of us here, those of us who are a part of the body of。
Christ, we have a special duty in this society that we live in. And that is to show God's。
highest and how do we live by God's standards in a world that thinks it is doing right in。
its own eyes. So it makes me question, what are my motives for serving? What am I really。
doing? Am I really doing it out of a love for God? And am I truly abiding to what God。
has asked of me? Or am I simply doing it because people are asking me? Micah asked me to stay。
in his house. Oh yeah, sure, I'll do it, even though it goes against God's laws. Oh, this。
group of people are now asking me to go with them. Oh, maybe I'll go with them just because。
they like me. Is that really what it is? And so my question for all of us really is, what。
are your motives when it comes to serving? When it comes to being leaders in the church。
or being leaders in your communities, what are your motives? I mean, of course, the Levites。
example is a bit maybe far-fetched and a bit lame for us to even comprehend, but I think。
there are parallels in our own lives, in our own acts of service, where we are doing more。
things for the approval of man. Galatians 1.10 talks about this. Are we doing things。
to seek approval of man or of God? And so for us, it's very important for us to really。
search our hearts and ask, what am I doing this for? What are my motives for service?。
And then the final one here, which is the most important one, is the wrong motive for。
worship. So we've had the wrong motives for repentance and the wrong motives for service。
that we've seen in Micah and we've seen in the Levite. But now the big one, what we see。
here is that Israel as a whole and all these characters, the one thing that they've got。
wrong is worship, the wrong motives for worship. You see mum here forgives Micah for stealing。
money and says she's going to dedicate it all back to the Lord. She doesn't. She gets。
1,100 pieces of silver back and she only uses 200 pieces. And instead of dedicating it in。
the correct way, she ends up using those 200 pieces to make metal and carved images. If。
she truly understood the laws and truly understood God's heart, she would know that they're not。
supposed to worship images. They're not supposed to worship images in the middle of the tabernacle。
should be nothing because God says nothing in this world, nothing that you can create。
can represent me. So what they've actually done here, they've had a wrong motive for。
worship and you can see this later on. Micah 17, sorry, chapter 17, verse 13, when Micah。
said, "Now I know that the Lord will prosper me because I have a Levite as priest. I have。
someone that God has said should be a priest to be a priest in my own home. So now I know。
that the Lord will prosper me." What's he done here? He has had the wrong motive for。
worship and he has reduced God. He thinks that he can almost bribe God. As long as he。
has someone that God has anointed to lead the worship, he thinks that's enough for God。
to be pleased with him and to prosper him. So what we see here is that Micah and his。
mum have reduced God. They've put him into a box. They think that if they do the things。
that are right, that they can trick God into blessing them. My question really here is。
if they have a wrong motive for worship, what about us? Who is the God that we're worshipping?。
Do we think that we can also box God into the comfort of our own homes? I can imagine。
when Micah built the shrine and the ephod and all the idols, he must have sat back one。
evening and just looked at his place in the living room, sat on his sofa and gone, "Look。
at this. Look at this amazing shrine that I have built for God. And now I have my own。
Levite priest stood right in front of me. I have the real original thing that I'm paying。
for and he's here. God, are you not happy? Does this not mean that you will bless me。
even more?" But I wonder, and of course, I don't think any of us have a shrine of God。
and have hired a priest to be living in your own homes with you, but I wonder whether we。
have boxed God. I wonder whether we have reduced God to a point where we think God Almighty,。
creator of heaven and earth, Alpha and Omega, is actually just waiting for us at the Far。
East Finance Centre on a Saturday evening, that we can do life the rest of the days,。
however we want, because we know that God will be there when we turn up at 5.30 or maybe。
sometimes we're late. We'll be there at 5.35, 5.40 and God Almighty will be there waiting。
for us. Have we restricted God to just be in one area? Have we got the idea of worship。
wrong, where we think that we can create things to worship God in order for him to bless us,。
in order for us to simply tick a box? You see, Micah and his mum and the Danites who。
stole these images, they thought these images would be useful. They thought that having。
these things would allow them to prosper. But again, that's not the motive for worship.。
Just because you have these things doesn't mean that your worship is pure. And that's。
why God is saying, don't worship the things of this world. Don't create anything, even。
if you think it represents me, don't create these things because I am so far above these。
things. And let us not worship and obey him simply because we know that by doing that,。
we then get some good things. That isn't the point of worship. You see, Micah made all。
these idols and he hired a priest to run his own personal religion. When they got stolen,。
he asked, what have I got left? Isn't that such an empty spiritual condition? When we。
build these things in our lives and that we say that they're a testament to our relationship。
and admiration for God. But when our lives start to crumble around us, when these things。
fall apart, then we're like, oh, what have I got left? My life is so empty. That's why。
God says, do not put your faith, do not worship things that are created in this world. All。
those things have the ability to corrupt you, consume you. But you see, the problem is this.。
You know, it's funny, as you see the Israelites being freed from Egypt and then going into。
the wilderness, throughout all this time, they're talking about the promised land. They're。
talking about getting to this promised land full of milk and honey, where life is going。
to be great. But they get there and we see through the book of Judges that it is anything。
but great. Why? Because they have no king. Because their motives for worship are wrong.。
They think, they still have this transactional relationship with this God where they think。
if as long as they do these things, he will then bless them with these things. And you。
see, when you head down that line, it is so easy to adopt the practices of the world,。
the idols of the world. You see, some of them seem like harmless habits. Actually, the fact。
that he even spent money on these pieces of gold and metal and these ethos that they wore,。
it implements, it tells me that he's trying. He thinks what he's doing is right. But in。
reality, he's missed the mark. Sin is us missing the mark and missing God's highest. And you。
see, these habits, they often seem harmless. I don't know about for you. Sometimes for。
us who have been in the church for a long time, doing these things week in, week out,。
and just making sure these things are done. There's the worship, there's the slides, there's。
the message, there's all these things. Ah, it's all done. It's good. God must be pleased.。
But all the while, we have neglected our own hearts. All the while, we've neglected what。
the true purpose of worship was. What is really worship? You see, in the Old Testament, whilst。
we're here, we know the very first just description of the word worship is Abraham in Genesis。
22, telling his helpers, you wait here, I'm going to go up the mountain with Isaac, and。
we're going to worship there. And how's he worshipping? He is willing to sacrifice everything.。
The word worship is proskuneo, and it means ascribing worth. It's saying, if I worship。
this thing, I'm saying that it is more worthy than anything else. It is of the highest worth.。
I'm willing to sacrifice everything I have for this thing. And God's saying, I'm the。
only one that you should worship. Don't put any idols, don't put any images in replacement。
of me. But you see, the thing is this. The throne is to be left empty, but not forever.。
Because in Scripture, if we fast forward to the New Testament, to Colossians in 115, we。
see that there is an image that is coming, that is worthy of our worship, that is worthy。
to be praised. And Colossians 115 says this, he is the image of God. Jesus Christ is the。
image of the invisible God, for by him all things were created, whether thrones or powers。
or rulers or authorities. God's saying, don't put anything else there, because soon, one。
day, there will be someone there who will be worthy of all your worship. And this person,。
of course, is Jesus. Jesus modelled to us and showed us what true sacrifice was like,。
what true worship was like, that he was willing to give himself up for us and to show us what。
pure worship is like. And he's showing us that we need to search our own hearts, that。
we need to give him our all, that we don't withhold anything from him, that we give him。
everything. You see, we see in this story here are just humans doing things that they。
think are right by their own standards, but still holding things back, only doing things。
because they think it makes sense, because this will help benefit them, because this。
will help prosper them. But true worship, Jesus showed us this, true worship is laying。
down our lives for the one whom all things were created for, God himself. And so the。
question really for us is, and I came across this quote the other day, the question that。
we have to ask ourselves when we're searching our own hearts, searching our own motives。
is not what have I already given, but rather, what am I holding back? What am I still holding。
back? I don't know about you, but if you look at your life and you're thinking, actually,。
you know what, I'm doing these things, they're good things. I am giving this to God. I am。
doing this thing to God. I have repented. I've repented when I first turned to Christ。
20 years ago. I'm still serving in the church. I'm still doing these things. I'm still giving。
money to the church and doing this, that, the other. The question really isn't what。
have we given? The question really is, what are we still holding back? When we get that。
in our minds, when we understand the magnitude of God, then we will start to understand who。
he is. And when we start to understand who he is, then we will finally have the right。
motive for repentance because we'll realise that we can't get anywhere near him because。
he's that pure. You know, Peter, when he first meets Jesus, what does he say? "Depart from。
me, Lord. Get away from me because I am a sinner. Just don't." In the face of holiness,。
Peter just crumbles and just wants to hide away. Moses did the same thing when he's getting。
near the glory of God. When we truly are up close and personal with God, we will truly。
realise how far we fall short. And that is what leads us to repentance because we're。
saying, "God, what I am is not enough, but I want you. I want all of you. I want to pursue。
you." That is the true and good motive for repentance. And then that should then overflow。
into our service so that we serve not because we want to look good or maybe even just satisfy。
our own conscience. "I'm doing these things which makes me a good Christian." No, we do。
these things because we have this love for God and that flows into a love for people。
and service. So we need to check our own hearts that we are even doing service for the right。
reasons and for us then to have a true and good motive for worship, recognising who he。
is, recognising that he is our King. This book of Judges is just constantly saying,。
"Israel had no king." And what it's really saying is God is supposed to be the King.。
If we truly grasped that God is our King, then we would have the right motives for worship.。
And I want to finish with just this question for us as we worship and as we go into breakout。
groups to share and talk more is, let us search our hearts now. What motives do we have that。
dictates the way we behave? What motives do we have? And that's where Psalm 139 comes。
in. "Search my heart, O God. Test my thoughts. See if there is any offensive way in me."。
That, praying that prayer in the Psalms, that is what is going to separate us from the people。
in the book of Judges. Because we're not really any better than them. Even though it looks。
like they're doing very silly things, we're not really any better than them. But what。
will separate us is when we remember to look to God and say, "God, you are our King. And。
I repent and I serve you and the people around me and I worship you with all my heart, soul。
and mind." So my question is this, what are your motives in life? Let's pray.。
So God, we come before you and we ask you to search our hearts and test our thoughts.。
But it's so easy to measure our standards or our levels of Christianity based on the。
world standards of how productive we are and how effective we are. And we are constantly。
living to seek the approval of man. But God, we bow before you and we remember this story。
of Micah, his mother, the Levite and the Danites, who were trying to do things right in their。
own eyes, to get the right idols, to get the right people, to get the right shrine, but。
missing the mark. And I pray, Lord, humbly and sincerely that you would show all of us。
the way. That we would not miss the mark, but rather that we would understand your heart。
for us and how we should live now. Take us back, Lord, to the heart of the heart of the。
national prayer. Thank you.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
