And thank you, Hank, for reading that.。
Now I was trying to get a wise man to read the passage, and I think we did get one.。
Now good evening.。
So I'm just really glad to be here as we continue this series.。
And as we've just read, it's about the wise man or the magi, or sometimes if I mistakenly,。
I would say Maggie.。
So anyways, if you'll hear all those, we're referring to the wise man.。
But before we start, I do want to ask you a few questions, okay?。
Which is, now, if we were to think of a wise man in the movie Star Wars, okay, which character。
would it be?。
Now I want to give you a hint, okay, which is it's not Darth Vader, okay?。
Now who would it be if you were to choose someone, a character?。
Huh?。
Yoda.。
Yes, it's Master Yoda.。
Let's get him on, Master Yoda.。
And he is this green-looking, small alien, and yet he possess this power that he's able。
to train all of the master Jedis.。
But nowhere do we know where he came from, and he's classified as the unknown species.。
All right, another chance if you didn't get the first one.。
So what about in the movie Matrix?。
If we were to find a character that would resemble the wise man or wise woman, who would。
it be?。
Now I also have a clue for you, and that is not Agent Smith, okay?。
All right, if you're laughing, that means you know what I'm talking about, but does。
anybody have any idea who the wise person is?。
Yes.。
So the Oracle, I heard it.。
Good job.。
This is a collective wisdom here, okay?。
So it is the Oracle, the one on the right.。
And she possessed the power to tell the future, or she knows what's going to happen, of course。
up to the free will of that person.。
All right, the next question.。
And of course we don't know much about her either, but that she helps the people to fight。
against this matrix.。
So the last chance if you didn't get the first two.。
Now who would be the wise man in KFC?。
Okay, all right.。
Okay, don't answer that one, okay?。
There are too many.。
That's the answer.。
And so when we talk about wise men, we tend to think of someone kind of mysterious.。
We don't know much about...。
This picture comes to mind, right?。
But somehow they possess some sort of power or knowledge that's beyond the average population.。
So this is the kind of wise man or the magi that we're also looking at today.。
Now the magi that we were looking at, we saw that they possessed this power and they were。
able to see what the stars meant.。
They were able to link it together with the birth of the King of Jews.。
And I believe that, and also with many scholars, we're going to show here the prophecy by Balaam,。
which is in Numbers 24, 17, where it says that, "I see him, but not now.。
I behold him, but not near.。
A star will come out of Jacob.。
A scepter will rise out of Israel."。
Now we believe that he was able to connect that star with his astronomic knowledge and。
see that it is the King of Jews.。
And yet he is not a Jew himself, at least not set by the Bible, but he's just someone。
who came from the East.。
And as far as we know, it's probably about 900 miles away.。
Now what does that mean?。
How long is 900 miles?。
Anybody know?。
How many hours of drive is that, 900 miles?。
Driving at the speed of 65 kilometers an hour.。
If you're not speeding, you'll get there within 14 hours of drive.。
So it actually took them about several months to get there.。
And so in this story, as it unfolds, we see that they were looking for this infant Jesus,。
and then where would they go?。
It actually was quite logical for them to go to Jerusalem because that was the city。
of the royalties.。
That's where even King David was born.。
So it's natural for them, if they're looking for the King, to go there first.。
But instead of finding Jesus, they found King Herod and alert him that there is this King。
who was born.。
And so as the story unfolds, Herod tells him by asking all the priests and the teachers。
of law, where would he be?。
And we know from the prophecies that he's going to be born, or he was born, in Bethlehem.。
And so they head out, and the star reappeared, and eventually landed in the home where Mary。
was with Jesus.。
And they bow down to him, and he served, and they gave homage to him, really just to praise。
him and to give him these gifts.。
So this is kind of how this story started.。
And eventually, then they've received a dream from the angels telling them, "Don't go there.。
Don't go back to Herod, but instead, go to another route."。
And Joseph also received a dream from the angels telling him to flee with Mary and Jesus。
to Egypt.。
And so after King Herod found out, what did he do?。
He killed all of the infants around the age under two years old in Bethlehem.。
So we kind of have this setting.。
I just wanted to make sure that we're all on the same page about what's happening.。
Now the very first thing that I do want to say is that today we're going to focus on。
how these wise men had worshipped God in a way that maybe you and I haven't, and for。
us to have a glimpse.。
So when I say the word "worship," I mean, what do you think of?。
How do we worship?。
What is worship?。
Anyone?。
Throw some answers out.。
How do you...。
Huh?。
- Praying.。
- Praying.。
Okay, thank you, Jackie, all the way from back there.。
What about up front on this side?。
What else?。
- Praises.。
- Praises, okay, singing songs or going to church.。
So we'll see the slide where we see that there are different ways and we picture what worship。
is like.。
However, today we're going to see it quite differently than from what these magi, these。
wise men are showing us.。
And the very first point that we want to go to is that it is important for us to worship。
God as a priority.。
Now they have done so in a few ways, okay?。
The first way that they have set God as a priority was as soon as they saw the star,。
they head out to find this newborn.。
Now think about it.。
If you and I were in their shoes, even with all the expertise that we have, we're looking。
at a star and I've looked at many stars and they all look pretty much the same, okay?。
And how do they with certainty know that this is the star of the newborn king?。
I mean, when we look up, does it have an arrow that says, "This is it," and it's got a title,。
Star of the King of Jews?。
Probably not.。
So there might be some doubt, you know, is that really the star?。
But anyways, let's say for argument's sake, let's say they're 100% sure this is the star.。
So they start heading out.。
But won't you and I, if we were them, start to have doubt?。
Are we really going to find this infant?。
I mean, it's miles and miles away and we're not sure if we're going to be robbed along。
the way or killed.。
And I mean, when we get there, we will really find him?。
So the first thing that I want us to look at is that we need to prioritize God over。
any doubts that we have.。
Maybe sometimes there are doubts in your life too.。
Maybe situations are not exactly how you want them to be.。
But will we be able to, like the wise men, just not to fear, but then to take a risk。
with God, knowing that when we prioritize him, even in the midst of doubt, I mean, even。
if they didn't find him, they were willing to go all the way to find Jesus.。
Will we, in the midst especially of our trials, have this priority?。
And the second thing is he prioritized his time.。
Now think about it.。
It was a few months worth of travel.。
I don't know about you, but I think they would have their own family, maybe a job.。
And these are most likely religious leaders or political leaders, and they have their。
duties to perform.。
And what did they do?。
They put down everything, their entire timetable.。
And it's also a question for us to think about.。
I mean, do we put down our timetable?。
I mean, do we go through the business of our day, and eventually we get to nighttime and。
we carve out that two minutes that we pray to God?。
Or do we carve out the best of our timetable, putting everything aside to ensure that we。
have quality time with him?。
And the third thing that we see is that the wise men prioritize God before anyone.。
Now think about it.。
When they were about to travel back, they would have gone back to Herald.。
But instead, because of what the angel said, they did not go back to Herald and went another。
way.。
But think about it.。
They have actually risked their lives to do that because Herald is a king.。
And if he knew that these wise men have played him, he could easily send out troops or soldiers。
to go after them.。
And yet, the wise men were willing to prioritize God first.。
And that's something for us to think about.。
Do we prioritize what God says, or do we care more about what people think of us?。
Do we care more about whether or not we'll get fired at our job or get higher grades。
or other benefits?。
And that's something for us to think about.。
So the first one I really want to share is that we need to prioritize God in our worship.。
Whether it's our time, whether it's people that we care about, or rather it's in those。
moments where we have doubts.。
We still need to prioritize him.。
Now as we read on, we see that as the wise men went and they went to Bethlehem, they。
saw this house and there was an infant, a toddler, because Jesus was most likely not。
in his baby stage, but closer to a year old or a year and a half.。
And what we see is in verse 11 it says, "On coming to the house, they saw the child with。
his mother Mary, and they bowed down and worshipped him.。
Then they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold, frankincense, and。
myrrh."。
And now at seeing Jesus, they didn't walk in and start sitting down and having a cup。
of tea and chat with Mary, how are things going?。
They don't see themselves at the same level, but what they did immediately was they bowed。
down because this is the king that they have been searching.。
This is the king of Jews.。
And so immediately also they brought out the gifts that they have for Jesus.。
Of course my question to you and also to me is, what about us?。
When we go to worship God, do we have this kind of reverence for God?。
I mean, one thing is, I mean, how on time do we come for worship?。
Okay, don't answer that, you know it yourself.。
Or how willing are we to give to God?。
Do we give the treasures that we cherish the most?。
Or instead, do we not even have a gift?。
Maybe many a times we don't have a gift for this king.。
What do we have for him?。
Do you know?。
We have our troubles, our issues, things we can't take care of, our health problems.。
That's what we bring to him.。
We're not bringing him any gift.。
Well, sometimes we do.。
And so that's also for us to think about.。
Looking at the wise men, they went all the way, not with their problems, but with gifts.。
And this baby Jesus, he's a toddler.。
He's not going to perform miracles and they're not doing anything.。
But really just to praise him.。
And you know, these three kinds of items, these gifts that they have, is fit for someone。
very special.。
It's fit for a king.。
It's fit for a savior.。
It's fit for God.。
Now let's look at that.。
So the first thing is gold.。
Okay.。
Gold as we know is the ultimate, most valuable element in those times.。
And so they're presenting the most precious thing to him.。
And really many scholars also say that this might symbolize the identity of who Jesus。
was and is, which is the king.。
Jesus is the king.。
And so they brought gold for him for this particular identity.。
And the next thing is, is frankincense.。
Now frankincense is a rosin from a particular tree.。
It was actually an imported good.。
Okay.。
And what it was used for is that it's burnt incense during the worship.。
And so this particular gift was made for God.。
So it's really worshiping him as the God of the universe.。
And the last thing is myrrh.。
It is actually used for the embalmment of dead bodies.。
And many say that it probably represented the suffering and the death and the resurrection。
of Jesus.。
And what that meant was that they were worshiping him as a savior.。
That identity.。
Now, rather or not, these wise men knew what they were presenting.。
We don't really know.。
But what we do see is that these are great gifts.。
And what about us?。
Today, what do we have prepared for Jesus, for God?。
What about you?。
And sometimes, you know, I think for myself, you know, when I tithe, I might forget this。
week's tithe and I might write it for next month instead or the month after that.。
But how many of us actually prepare our checks, maybe even before our paycheck comes, and。
they're ready to tithe their first fruits, their best part of it to God?。
Or when we talk about serving God or volunteering, how many of us are like, "Yeah, the church。
needs that and I'm going to serve there next week."。
Yes, the vesters clapping.。
Right?。
Or we're like, "Oh, you know, think about it.。
Maybe if no one goes, you know."。
And like we're serving God if it's like out of pity.。
Or maybe because you don't want to see that announcement anymore.。
And then you go and serve, right?。
But look at these wise men.。
They were not like that.。
They were traveling all the way.。
They were prepared to give what they have to God.。
And so let us be reminded of that as well.。
And there's a great expression that John Piper eloquently puts together.。
And I want to share that with you.。
And it says, "The gifts are intensifiers of desire for Christ himself."。
In much the same way that fasting is, when you give a gift to Christ like this, it's。
a way of saying, "The joy that I pursue is not the hope of getting rich with things from。
you.。
I have not come to you for your things, but for yourself.。
And this desire I now intensify and demonstrate by giving up things in the hope of enjoying。
you more, not things.。
By giving to you what you do not need and what I might enjoy, I am saying more earnestly。
and more authentically, you are my treasure, not these things."。
And we should really look and reflect, what are we giving to God?。
Are we looking at him as if he's our treasure or the leftovers?。
We need to really think about that.。
And this actually nicely brings us to our third point, which is we need to worship God。
for just who he is.。
Now up to this point, when we looked at the entire story, there was nothing else, and。
I mean nothing else that these wise men wanted other than one thing, which is to worship。
God.。
They did not go to him with a disease that they have, and they did not go trying to become。
richer, and they did not go trying to get anything, but only to worship God.。
Now I want to share with you about maybe two months ago, I was having lunch actually with。
Pastor Peter, and he was sharing with me about a testimony.。
And it was about a young lady, she's about to graduate from school and she lives in Canada.。
And so she was trying to get a job before she would graduate.。
Many students do that to make sure that they secure a spot.。
And so she applied and of course she got a job from the National Bank of Canada, which。
is a good job.。
And so she signed it, signed the offer and was ready for it.。
And as she was still continuing the rest of her study, another offer came in, and it was。
from Morgan Stanley in the States.。
So it was a great opportunity for her to explore and kind of just find out more about how it。
is to work at a more prestigious bank and to have that experience.。
And so as I was listening, I kind of interrupted and I said, "Oh yeah, of course take the Morgan。
Stanley job because she hasn't started yet, right?。
This would be like great for a youngster, go for it."。
Of course, Pastor Peter did not say that.。
He was like, "Oh," and then I told her to stick with her original job.。
I'm like, "Oh, okay."。
But the reason being is because he said as she had signed that offer, it was already。
some sort of agreement and she should try to honour that, try to honour that signature,。
try to honour it for God.。
And I was, "Yeah, okay."。
And so as the story unfolds, when she first signed it, it was in 2019, okay?。
And then she was studying until the May of 2020.。
And of course, as we all know, COVID hit.。
And so all of her friends that have signed up to work in the States, everything was put。
to halt and they did not have a job.。
On the other hand, because she had honoured God and listened to Pastor Peter, I'm glad。
she did not ask me, you know, but maybe God would have given me something to give her.。
And so she had her job and everything was fine.。
So listening to that, I was very motivated myself.。
I'm like, "Oh yeah, I got to go out there and then I got to do everything honouring。
God.。
Oh yeah, I'm so ready for it."。
And so the next day, I was still ready for it the next day.。
I still am.。
And so the next day, I happened to have dinner with, well, I happen to have dinner with Philemon.。
I mean, we have it all the time.。
But we happened to go to Sky 100.。
We're going to show this, yeah, which is on top of ICC, okay?。
So we're just enjoying ourselves and see Cafe 100.。
And you know what we do kind of like tourists now, because we can't get out of Hong Kong,。
right?。
So we go to the souvenir store.。
Ha ha, souvenir store.。
So I was there and it was around like a Halloween time, okay?。
And you know, ladies, I'm not sure I can speak for all ladies, but just looking around for。
some good stuff.。
And so looking at some Legos, you know, I like cute stuff.。
And there was one where it was Cinderella with the theme of a Halloween.。
Yeah, there we go.。
That's what it looked like.。
And I was like, "Oh, this is so cute."。
But remembering the story or the testimony that Pastor Peter said, and I was like, "Okay,。
I should try to, you know, my best, give my very best to God, honor Him as much as I could."。
And so I felt like as a Christian, not to mention a pastor, buying a Halloween, like。
this, all right, might be a little bit too much.。
So okay, I offer the second best.。
It was something else.。
Don't worry about that one.。
And so I'm like, "Okay, I'll get something."。
So feeling quite good about myself, you know, came honoring God.。
And after we paid, you know, as I was just walking away and about to get to the cafe。
where we'll eat, you know, I have this thought.。
I was like, "Did I worship God because of God alone?。
Or did I worship God because I was hoping for His protection or His blessing, just like。
that testimony I heard?"。
And I, you know, I struggled a little bit as I was walking away, and if I have to be。
very truthful, I have to say that I was worshiping God, but with the intent that maybe when I。
do it, something good will happen.。
Maybe I'll be protected.。
And I, you know, as I think, I'm like, "Okay, if the testimony had been different, if she。
gets signed on and calamity happened," and I was like, "Okay, maybe I won't be as motivated。
to do it."。
And just that thought about the purity in our worship makes us or made me have another。
thought.。
When I say I worship God, is there somewhere down deep inside of my heart somewhere that's。
actually wanting more from Him, some sort of blessing, some sort of protection?。
But look at these wise men.。
They wanted nothing but Jesus to be in His presence to worship Him because He's the King,。
He's the God, and He is our Savior who gave us Jesus and that He would die for us and。
wipe out our sins.。
Is that not enough for us to worship Him, but to have other agendas?。
Now I'm not saying that we cannot pray for our needs, okay?。
I don't want us to stop asking God for things because He is our Heavenly Father and He even。
told us to ask for things.。
It's okay to ask, but it's also a question that we need to think about in our heart.。
Are we just doing certain things so we can kind of get some benefits?。
And if we are, we need to be very careful.。
That kind of worship might not be as pure as we'd like to think.。
And so it's very easy for us to find out, you know, which is like when we read our Bible。
or when we go to church or when we pray, when we think we're doing things that God likes,。
following His path, you know, do you have that sense that, okay, you know, I've done。
all these, I've been the good kid, not the Santa Claus, but you know, God will then look。
after me.。
And you're like, well, how do I know if I do that?。
Well, just flip it over, okay?。
Just reverse it.。
If something bad happened, do you think, oh, did I miss reading my Bible?。
Did I not pray?。
Did I cheat someone and hence this is happening?。
Because if you do, then maybe when you were doing those things, you were hoping to have。
some other benefits.。
But let us be reminded by the wise man that when we worship Him, it's just because He。
is almighty God, because He's the creator, because He loves us, because He's ready to。
give everything that He has for us.。
And there's no greater reason to worship and to praise Him other than just who He is.。
And so I challenge all of you and for myself also, that when we look at the wise man, let。
us worship Him by prioritizing Him above everything.。
Rather you have doubts, rather you're a very busy person, and just not worry about what。
other people think or say.。
Just prioritize Him.。
He is your priority.。
Second thing is be prepared to give Him.。
It's not about taking things from Him if you want to worship Him.。
It's about giving with gladness, with thanksgiving, and with your gifts, things that are important。
to you.。
And thirdly, really, let us worship Him for just who He is and nothing else.。
Don't mix it in with a little bit of your own agenda, but entirely just for God, because。
He's worthy.。
And so today just allow us to reexamine our heart and let our worship be from our hearts。
to Him, as pure as it can be.。
Let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for just who you are.。
You're the God Almighty, the glorious one, and you're the one who loves us so much that。
you gave us Jesus.。
And Father, help us as we mature in our Christian walk, that Father, maybe before we went to。
you with problems and issues, but let us now go to you in your presence to worship you。
because of who you are.。
Let us prioritize you.。
And Father, help us in our weakness.。
Help us during the times when we have our own desires and wishes.。
Let us be fulfilled by you and you alone.。
Help us have the right heart to worship you.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
