(silence)。
- Hello, hello, is that coming through?。
All right, very good.。
Okay, so when I was young, I loved board games, all right?。
But there was one game which I loved above all else.。
It was the game to rule all games.。
And it is, of course, the one and only Monopoly.。
(audience laughs)。
I hear the groans.。
All right, so when extended family was around。
and everyone agreed to settle in。
and play Monopoly for a long haul,。
this was, to me, was like going to Disneyland.。
I loved it.。
I would terrorize my cousins who would have to hide from me。
and I would run around looking for them,。
saying, "Who wants to play the best game in the world?"。
And they would just hide in fear.。
Mel even got me this classic edition。
because I love it so much.。
And here you can see us both just really enjoying a game,。
both having such a great time.。
Now, there was only one problem with Monopoly.。
It wasn't my strategy and skills.。
I was great with that.。
But it was the fact that after we had played,。
the money I had amassed was useless anywhere else, all right?。
I had a portfolio like you would never believe.。
I had property, hotels, cash to the wazoo,。
but it was useless anywhere else.。
I couldn't even get a bag of lollies, all right?。
So it was like the shopkeeper didn't even know who I was.。
The wealth I had amassed was useless.。
And what did I actually do with that wealth while I had it?。
Well, according to various family and friends' accounts,。
I turned people against me.。
But when I was playing, nothing beyond that game mattered.。
I could have used that game while I was playing。
so that when the game had finished,。
I would be in more favour with those others around me.。
It might have been a less exciting game,。
but afterwards I would have had better results。
and better standing amongst family and friends.。
Now, in this parable, we see Jesus tell the story。
about this man, this unrighteous steward,。
who uses his position and his resources。
with his future in mind.。
Jesus uses this illustration to paint the picture。
of how we as followers of him。
should be using worldly wealth and resources。
with the kingdom of God in mind and eternity in mind.。
Now, this parable is quite a well-known one。
and also one that can leave us scratching our heads。
as to what it is like Jesus is actually telling us to do。
or what it is he is approving of and what he is commending.。
On face value, we may come away with the impression。
that Jesus is okay with this master's dishonesty。
and even commending it.。
Now, it is important for us to address this。
because it is not misunderstood。
as an endorsement for dodgy money practices,。
but we don't want to get too bogged down in this aspect.。
So in verse one, we see that this man is accused。
of wasting his possessions.。
Now, the Greek word used here is actually the same Greek。
that Luke uses in the parable of the prodigal son,。
which John preached last week.。
Now, this word he uses to describe。
how the prodigal son uses his inheritance money,。
meaning to squander or to waste.。
So we can say he wasn't just some manager。
who was bad at his work and needed more training,。
but he was abusing his position and wasting money away.。
Now, in verses five to seven, we see the manager's plan。
that is supposed to help him have security。
in his soon unemployment.。
So summoning his master's debtors one by one,。
he said to the first, "How much do you owe my master?"。
He said, "A hundred measures of oil."。
He said to him, "Take your bill and sit down quickly。
and write 50."。
Then he said to another, "And how much do you owe?"。
He said, "A hundred measures of wheat."。
He said to him, "Take your bill and write 80."。
Now, this also seems a little bit dodgy to his master, right?。
Now, while that may be a possibility,。
there are some other likely possibilities and explanations.。
One which many commentaries put forth。
is that this money he was discounting。
was actually from his own commission, okay?。
A very generous commission, granted.。
(audience laughing)。
But, and that may seem crazy,。
but was given some of these margins,。
but is similar to how some tax collectors could operate。
in a very free, unregulated manner.。
It may have also come from interests。
that would have been charged,。
something that was illegal to do to fellow Israelites,。
according to Deuteronomy, but was practiced anyhow.。
Or it could have been a combination of any of these things.。
Okay, but what this can paint then。
is that rather than the steward。
who further cheats his master for selfish gain,。
is actually sacrificing his own commission,。
what will be his last paycheck for the foreseeable future,。
at a time when he clearly needs it。
so that he can have a longer term provision and security.。
It then begins to look a lot more like an investment.。
Now, while it's important for us to address this,。
it's not what we wanna get bogged down with.。
Jesus uses this to paint a larger picture。
and a larger point.。
It is not the larger point in and of itself.。
Now, these interpretations would just serve。
to make Jesus' point stronger.。
Now, this illustration was also likely。
much more easily digested。
for those who were hearing it in real time.。
Much like if someone now talks about buying a house,。
we know that involves a mortgage, a deposit,。
taxes, lawyers, et cetera.。
We aren't going to go into the details。
of all those little things。
every time we use buying a house as an analogy.。
So then, what is the master commending in verse eight?。
Well, his shrewdness.。
Now, we need to take a minute with this word shrewd.。
It's a word that can give us a bit of a funny feeling.。
Like it can mean like, we can think of it as cunning。
or maybe a bit too frugal and tight,。
the kind of person you don't really wanna go。
for a meal or drinks with,。
the kind who's nowhere to be seen when the Maidan comes.。
(audience laughing)。
So let's try and get rid of that feeling.。
And what is the word?。
The original Greek, which we often see translated。
as shrewd, shrewdness, shrewdly,。
really has the meaning prudently,。
practically wise, acting with forethought.。
And Jesus here is not commending any possible dishonesty。
in verses five to seven.。
And he's certainly not commending the dishonesty。
in verse one, but he is commending his shrewdness.。
He is commending his ability to act wisely。
in preparation for his future.。
Likely at some cost of sacrifice,。
he is commending that his plans was well thought out。
and meant to bring about a desired result.。
The master is commending his shrewdness.。
Now we need to understand that the lesson then。
is not to make money in whatever way you can,。
so then you can use it for the kingdom of God.。
This is where we can easily get trapped。
in the pursuit of money,。
convincing ourselves it's for a noble cause.。
I hate to tell you this,。
God doesn't need your money actually as much as you think.。
Don't get too much relief in that by the way,。
but he is much more interested in our hearts.。
Our money can be a reflection of that,。
but it is often also a guide for our hearts.。
In Mark 12, there is a story of a widow。
who throws in two small copper coins。
while others are throwing in large amounts.。
And Jesus looks at the widow and commends her,。
for while these other people were giving。
from a place of wealth, she was giving all that she had.。
Now, if it was just a matter of increasing。
the dollar amounts that we give,。
Jesus would be commending those who gave plenty。
and ignoring her.。
But he recognises that she is putting God above her money。
in such a significant way.。
So why use this character。
of the dishonest steward in the parable?。
Now, Jesus uses this shady character。
to help make clearer the comparison。
and the rebuke that we see in verse eight.。
"For people in this world are more shrewd。
in dealing with their own kind。
than are people of the light."。
So even this squanderer can get his head together。
and be shrewd in his planning for what is coming。
and for his future.。
Yet us Christians often aren't wise。
in planning for our future, which is one of eternity.。
Even this unrighteous man is wise enough。
to use his resources to get people on his side.。
Yet followers of God can't show the same wisdom。
in using their money for kingdom purposes.。
Jesus uses this broken man。
to show us Christians in this rebuke,。
if he can get it, why can't you?。
So verse eight is also really where we get。
to the key of what Jesus is saying.。
Someone who doesn't believe in eternity。
for what will plan for what they value most.。
You know, that might be a nice house, car,。
good family, travel, experiences, whatever that may be.。
They'll make sacrifices, learn skills,。
invest time, money and energy。
so that they can attain and enjoy these things。
that they value.。
They'll research the best loan plans.。
What are the best holiday destination?。
What's the cheapest way I could do this?。
Now we do this also, but then to us Christians furthermore,。
what do we, or what are we supposed to value the most?。
That is God and his kingdom.。
We wanna see the kingdom of God here as it is in heaven.。
And we also wanna spend our eternity in heaven with God.。
We know that our lives go beyond this world.。
And we know that our actions aren't just meant。
to get us nice things, but can have eternal consequences.。
So we can take lessons from those who live in such a way。
for their earthly goals.。
And if they can do that, surely we can live in such a way。
for the kingdom of God, which is so much greater。
than anything they may be living for。
or anything we may have here.。
Now, so how much does our use of money。
and our resources reflect this?。
How much does our planning and forethought。
reflect our value in the kingdom?。
Do we sit down intentionally and think about this?。
Okay, I'm currently making this much money I've worked out,。
I can put this much towards helping the poor.。
Does our planning and wisdom into how we treat。
our resources in a God honoring way,。
match that of our planning and with planning。
that goes for a holiday.。
And let's review who Jesus is talking to in this parable.。
Let's look at verse one again.。
"Jesus told his disciples."。
This setup is key.。
Who Jesus is talking to in this parable is key.。
And many other parables are directed towards Pharisees,。
those trying to trick Jesus。
or those who wanna learn how to become followers.。
But not that many are directed to the disciples.。
We see later in verse 14,。
that Pharisees were in the vicinity and heard this parable,。
but this is specifically directed to the disciples,。
to those who had signed up and said,。
"I wanna be a follower of Jesus."。
So if you're a Christian,。
while all the parables relate to you。
and are for you,。
this parable that Jesus speaks is directly to you.。
Consider how important of a lesson this is。
that Jesus is telling.。
Now, these disciples that he's speaking this to,。
are the ones who will start his church。
and advance his message after his death and resurrection.。
And Jesus talks about our worldly wealth。
and wisdom in using it.。
He is saying this to the followers of the church。
that we are a part of today。
and that we are continuing on today.。
So I just wanna make sure we get the significance of that,。
how important it is,。
because how we use our worldly wealth and resources。
is not secondary,。
but actually foundational to our following of Jesus.。
It's not secondary,。
but foundational in our following of Jesus.。
So we don't have a choice in ignoring this.。
So then what about these disciples?。
Did they take this on board?。
Well, let's evaluate.。
In Acts 2, in describing the fellowship of the disciples,。
we read this and let's read this out together.。
I'll take this in, one, two, three.。
They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching。
and to fellowship,。
to the breaking of bread and to prayer.。
Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders。
and signs performed by the apostles.。
All the believers were together。
and had everything in common.。
They sold property and possessions。
to give to anyone who had need.。
Every day, they continued to meet together。
in the temple courts.。
They broke bread in their homes。
and ate together with glad and sincere hearts,。
praising God and enjoying the favour of all the people.。
And the Lord added to their number daily。
those who were being saved.。
An amazing picture of church.。
And let's look at verse 45.。
They sold property and possessions。
to give to anyone who had need.。
Now, this was an integral part of who they were。
and their ministry.。
In Acts 6, later on,。
we see they had a daily distribution of food。
and the men who oversaw that。
were to be full of the spirit and wisdom.。
They were good stewards of what they had。
and there was an intentionality to what they were doing.。
It wasn't an afterthought or mere obligation,。
but an integral part of who they were.。
And in their faithfulness in this,。
as well as in the other areas,。
we see that they had the favour of all the people。
and the Lord was adding to their number daily.。
We see a very real example of what Jesus says。
in Luke 16, 9,。
in using worldly wealth to gain friends.。
And note how it is that they use their wealth.。
Now, this passage is often applied to all sorts of resources。
such as our time and skills, et cetera.。
Now, while these are applicable,。
it is important to recognise that。
at the heart of this passage,。
it is talking about our money,。
which includes our possessions.。
Because as we look at the verses following,。
Jesus keeps bringing it back to this.。
In verse 9,。
use worldly wealth to gain friends for yourself.。
11, if you have not been trustworthy。
in handling worldly wealth,。
who will trust you with true riches.。
Similarly in 12, with property and property of your own.。
And it cannot be as clear as in verse 13,。
the big knockout punch,。
you cannot serve both God and money.。
Now, verse 11 says,。
if you have not been trustworthy in handling worldly wealth,。
who will trust you with true riches.。
If God sees we are poor in handling worldly wealth,。
why would he entrust us with kingdom matters,。
which are of so much greater value?。
Similarly, if the world sees our handling of worldly wealth,。
and it is just corrupt and selfish,。
why would they care what we have to say。
about Jesus and eternity?。
And think about what a shame that is.。
Because if I'm selfish with my money,。
does that change that Jesus is good。
and that he has saved us?。
No.。
But it does make me a poor representative of that.。
And why would anyone trust me。
with what I may say about salvation and eternal life,。
when I handle worldly wealth so poorly,。
and in a manner that doesn't point to a life beyond this one?。
Now, I wanna make a distinction here.。
Often when we hear handling wealth poorly,。
we think of things such as not having。
adequate retirement plans and things of that nature.。
Now, having that is good。
and something we should employ wisdom in.。
But when it is talking about handling worldly wealth。
in this context,。
is much more to do with our generosity,。
our use of money as though there is a life beyond this one.。
When people criticize Christians。
for being hypocritical in this area,。
it's not a critique of our poor performing MPFs。
or stock portfolios.。
It's about greed, hoarding, not caring about the poor.。
So is there a some way we can get out of doing this right?。
Now, this topic is really unavoidable in the Bible.。
The fact that we have to walk with integrity in this area。
is not really up for debate.。
What about if I just am better in other areas to compensate?。
You know, I'll serve more, I'll be kinder, all those things.。
Well, yes, do those things.。
But no, we can't get out of these.。
Jesus warns us in verse 13。
that we cannot serve both God and money.。
We simply can't have it both ways.。
Even if we could attain perfection。
in every other aspect of life, it still wouldn't work.。
And if we did think that we found a loophole,。
actually we are the ones that would lose out from that.。
1 Timothy 6 verse 10 says,。
"For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil.。
Some people eager for money have wandered from the faith。
and pierced themselves with many griefs."。
Now look at the focus.。
We don't just avoid a love of money。
because it's harmful to other people, which it is,。
but it's harmful to you.。
But you will pierce yourself with many griefs.。
And this verse shows it can be a real trap。
in which people also lose their faith.。
It's for our benefit more than anyone else's。
that we understand this.。
And we see this in the parable, the way Jesus lays it out.。
This parable is not only directed to us, but it is for us.。
It's for our benefit.。
We need this more than God does.。
We need to let go of our love of money。
much more than God needs our money to continue His ministry.。
And the benefit is twofold.。
Not only are we saved from grief caused by our love of money,。
but also in how we receive from our generosity.。
Now this message isn't even emphasising give money。
and then we can be able to be a blessing to others.。
In this parable here,。
the tenants of the field were blessed for sure。
by the discount, but the steward was really bringing。
about his own longer term provision.。
And we also will be welcomed。
into eternal dwelling along with others.。
In 2 Corinthians, it says, remember this,。
"Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly。
and whoever sows generously will also reap generously.。
Each of you should give what you have decided。
in your heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion。
for God loves a cheerful giver."。
The biggest beneficiary of any generosity。
that you may have is not the person。
you are generous towards.。
It's not God as though you were doing Him some big favour.。
It's you.。
You're the biggest beneficiary of your generosity.。
It's the best investment any of us can possibly make.。
Let's look at what Jesus says in verse nine.。
And I tell you, "Make friends for yourself。
by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails,。
they may receive you into eternal dwellings."。
A great note here as well is,。
how did the steward's plan work out by the way?。
Actually, we don't know.。
We don't know how the steward's plan worked out。
if those tenants helped him.。
There's no guarantee that his investment。
in those tenants paid off.。
There's no guarantee with our earthly investments.。
But the difference for us is that we know。
that Jesus can guarantee us that what we give Him。
and how we live for Him will seem like nothing。
when we are with Him in heaven.。
And so what is this unrighteous。
or in some versions, worldly wealth?。
The word describing the wealth。
is the same to use to describe the steward.。
Now, this is not an endorsement to attain money。
in whichever which way you can.。
But this wealth just belongs to the world.。
It has no righteousness to it.。
It doesn't come with us into heaven。
and it has a great potential to corrupt and destroy us.。
And as verse nine points out, it will fail.。
One way or another, even on earth, we can lose it.。
The steward's plan, while shrewd,。
doesn't guarantee his security.。
But even if all goes well here,。
our money fails in granting us eternal life.。
There's no amount of money we can attain。
that will get us eternal life.。
So we should use it while we are here。
and have it to help advance God's kingdom.。
And the money we are so proud to have here。
is as silly as monopoly money, where we are going.。
It's like if I had taken all my monopoly winnings。
to an interview for bank manager at HSBC,。
bragging about how I owned all the green。
and the dark blue and how I had hotels.。
And this was my credential as to why I'm so significant。
and will be such a great bank manager.。
It's laughably silly.。
And while that money is extremely relevant。
while playing the game, it's irrelevant thereafter.。
Now, what we have in this life is monopoly money.。
We are best to use it to advance the kingdom of God。
that we may be welcomed into eternal dwellings.。
All right, so how do we do this?。
I want to give some practical ways to do this.。
And as we go through, this isn't a message of guilt.。
I don't want you to just go away with just,。
"Paul told me I need to give more money."。
Now, that may be true.。
That may be true.。
But what is more important is we shift our understanding。
of money into its rightful place.。
A worldly thing, a potential tool,。
which also has tremendous ability to corrupt us,。
but that we can use also in advancing God's kingdom.。
And that we want to treat with wisdom and intentionality。
that we ourselves and others may benefit.。
So the first point is tithing.。
Now, I'm referring to giving of 10% to the Lord.。
Now, this, as Christians, to be honest,。
is not really generosity.。
This is a baseline of giving.。
All right, we see some verses such as in Leviticus,。
"A tithe of everything from the land,。
"where the grain from the soil or fruit from the tree。
"belongs to the Lord.。
"It is holy to the Lord."。
And in Deuteronomy, we see,。
"Be sure to set aside a tenth of all。
"that your fields produce each year."。
Now, while there is some conversation。
to be had around a mandate in this sense in the New Testament,。
the standard of generosity in the New Testament。
is actually much higher, requiring all of ourselves.。
So actually, tithing is a really great place to start。
if you haven't already.。
And there is nothing better than this。
for building in the habit of giving。
and the reminder to ourselves。
that all of our money and things actually belongs to God.。
It comes from the Lord and it belongs to Him.。
So then putting that back to the kingdom of God.。
And we often think to ourselves,。
"If we win the lottery。
"or if I just become super rich very quickly,。
"then I'll become super generous."。
But this typically isn't true.。
And Jesus even says this in verse 10,。
"Whoever can be trusted with very little。
"can also be trusted with much.。
"And whoever is dishonest with very little。
"also will be dishonest with much."。
So we need to build in giving as a habit.。
Now, following on from that, we get to being generous.。
There are countless verses on being generous.。
This is actually the world's easiest fact check.。
Just Google Bible verses about being generous。
and then just spend the whole night reading through.。
So be generous with your family and friends。
and with those spreading the gospel.。
One example being in Philippians 4,。
Paul commends the Philippians for helping him with his needs.。
And then of course, being generous with the poor.。
Many of these countless verses。
specifically mentioned helping the poor。
and also caring about them.。
Some examples, Proverbs 14, 31,。
"Whoever oppresses a poor man insults his maker,。
"but he who is generous to the needy honors him.。
"Whoever is generous to the poor lends to the Lord。
"and he will repay him for his deed."。
In Deuteronomy,。
"For there will never cease to be poor in the land.。
"Therefore I command you,。
"you shall open wide your hands to your brother。
"to the needy and to the poor in your land."。
And in Matthew,。
"And the king will answer them,。
"Truly I say to you, as you did to the least of these brothers,。
"you did it to me."。
And on and on and on.。
Now imagine the favour。
that people would have towards the church。
if we live this out.。
And many of these verses still show。
that you will reap the reward for your generosity.。
We do actually need this reminder,。
not because we want to cultivate selfishness in our giving,。
but actually we recognize that we are weak and selfish。
and that we need this reminder。
that this is actually good for me.。
So it's good to remember that this is for our benefit.。
But the other reason we need this reminder。
is to keep our pride out of it.。
Keep our pride of saying,。
"Oh, I'm such a generous person."。
Or to even to use how generous we may be。
to put ourselves above others.。
Our goal is not to be like the Pharisee who prays,。
"Thank you God that I'm such a good person。
"and not like that tax collector.。
"I fast and I tithe."。
And also consider Matthew 6, 1,。
"Be careful not to practice your righteousness。
"in front of others to be seen by them.。
"If you do, you will have no reward。
"from your Father in heaven."。
Our generosity is not to become just another status symbol。
that we chase and idolize.。
And so we want to be intentional in this.。
Give freely, but with purpose.。
Look at what is effective in helping those in need.。
Organizations that are doing this well.。
We want to approach this with excellence。
and not just as a tick the box.。
We need to actually care.。
And lastly, I want to lay down this challenge.。
Plan for this.。
We want to grow in our wisdom。
and our intentionality in this.。
The steward had a plan.。
He thought about it and then he carried it out.。
Now we are actually coming up to the perfect time。
to do this practically.。
April 1st, exactly two weeks away。
is of course the start of the next financial year.。
So let's make a goal.。
So let's make a goal sometime in the course。
of the next two weeks to sit down and think about。
and go through what our lives look like financially。
in relation to the kingdom of God.。
Treat it like an audit.。
Treat it as though you were researching to buy a house。
or go on a dream holiday.。
Get into the nitty gritty of it.。
Ask, am I being a good steward?。
Using my money shrewdly in ways。
that can advance the kingdom。
and am I investing in my eternal dwelling?。
We can remember this as thinking of April 1st,。
not as April Fool's Day,。
but April Wisdom Day.。
- Yeah, that sounds good.。
- So yeah.。
So,。
though we can remember it,。
we can remember it.。
And hopefully that one will stick with you for years.。
So,。
decide on a timeframe to keep coming back。
and revisiting this question.。
This may be monthly, quarterly,。
or at the very least, make this annual.。
And make it memorable,。
such as the first Tuesday of each month or April 1st,。
which is also known to some as April Wisdom Day.。
(congregation laughing)。
If you're a family, do this together.。
And God loves when we can give joyfully.。
2 Corinthians says,。
"Each of you should give。
what you've decided in your heart to give,。
not reluctantly or under compulsion,。
for God loves a cheerful giver."。
So pray through this,。
asking for wisdom and help and guidance in this area,。
because it's imperative that we get this right.。
As we wrap up, and as the band comes back up,。
we need to remember God actually is much more concerned。
with our heart than our money.。
He wants us to have a heart toward the kingdom and eternity.。
And He knows that this is such a strong area for us。
where we can harden our hearts and struggle.。
But this is also such an effective way。
of pointing our hearts toward Him。
and surrendering to Him。
and for also for others to then see Him.。
So remember the root of why we are doing this。
to begin with, and what, or more accurately,。
who gives us that ability?。
It is for the one that though He was rich,。
for our sakes became poor,。
that we may become rich.。
He is our strength in this, and He is our reason.。
And it is by His grace that we are saved.。
We don't come from this as we are such generous people,。
but we follow Jesus' example,。
considering what He gave for us。
and how much greater it is what He gave for us。
than what is required of us.。
Since what we have is not really ours anyway,。
we're mere stewards.。
So let's be wise, thoughtful, and generous。
with how we treat our worldly wealth,。
not for our own glory, but for His.。
Let us pray.。
Thank you, Lord, for all You've done for us,。
all You've blessed us with,。
and all You continue to do for us, Lord.。
We pray, ask You now that You would protect us。
from the love of money and from our pride.。
Ask that You help us in being generous with each other。
and with those in need,。
and be generous with what You have given us.。
And we ask, Lord, for Your wisdom in how to deal。
with the wealth that we have in this world,。
and that You would help us to honour You。
with what we have.。
Pray this in Your name, amen.。
