My talk this evening as we kick off a brand new series is "Serving Satisfies Me."。
You're going to hear this next expression a lot.。
I've put it on the screen.。
Saved people serve people.。
Let me repeat that.。
Saved people serve people.。
You don't have to be saved to serve, but I maintain that you do have to serve if you。
are saved.。
I'll tell you where I'm going with this.。
January 7th, 2023 was a difficult day for me to preach my first sermon of the year here。
at KFCI.。
Firstly I was in the UK.。
It was literally days after Sandra's father had died and we were busy clearing out his。
house and arranging the funeral.。
My sermon was on video.。
I actually filmed it myself.。
Bonnie tidied it up and added the slides.。
If you remember, God gave me, I believe, three words.。
You remember this picture.。
Us, you and them.。
A reminder by us, I referred to the pastors of the church.。
There is a call for us pastors to be ready for all that God wants us to do as a church.。
By you, I refer to the congregation of our churches.。
That means recognising that all of you, all of you are gifted.。
That means us equipping you.。
That means proper training to allow you to be effective ministers of the gospel.。
And by them, I refer to the community.。
Those outside of our church buildings.。
That means us being aware of the needs in our society.。
That means us being willing to get up of our church seat and do something about it.。
That means being trained and equipped to be able to do this effectively.。
Now Gong Fuk Church's vision for 2023 is this, equipping the saints, serving the community.。
Equipping the saints, serving the community.。
In response to this, we launched a five-week sermon series on equipping the saints with。
Johnny, James, myself, and you remember Pastor Seth.。
But we were only at half-time.。
And the half-time refreshments, as it were, were the One Campaign and the Parables of。
Luke.。
But the point is, it is good to be equipped.。
Indeed, very good.。
Indeed, essential.。
But only if equipping leads to service.。
Only if equipping leads to service.。
That is the 2023 vision of Gong Fuk Church.。
And this is vital as we as a church, as the big church, make preparation for our Gong。
Fuk Community Centre and the exciting opportunities to serve Hong Kong people emanating from the。
Southern District.。
And we'll be sharing more about this in the coming weeks and months.。
But remember, save people, serve people.。
And yet, many people talk about coming to church to be fed.。
You've heard the expression.。
They will feel they will be fully satisfied if they are fed.。
As I prayed this week, there's a picture on the screen.。
I sense a picture of a hiker.。
I think I was influenced by us being in Moi Wo last week for three days.。
Now this hiker had a rucksack full of food and provisions for the hike.。
But instead of that, he decided to eat and drink them before he started the walk.。
He was more worried about being fed than about the purpose of his journey.。
KFCI, church is not all about me.。
Jesus didn't come to be served, but to serve.。
When we follow Jesus as our leader and forgiver, we should serve others just as Jesus did.。
After all, save people, serve people.。
I told you to hear that a few more times.。
Jesus was the ultimate example of service throughout his life.。
And our response to his love and grace should be lives spent serving him.。
I don't know about you, I find that I can twist the idea of service to be more about。
me than it is about the attitude of serving.。
One of the things I've noticed about serving in our current culture is that we tend to。
have an approach that's really more about us than it is about who we're serving.。
It's not a great look.。
Let me explain.。
I've put the headline up, "Selfish Serving."。
Often the narrative in my mind goes something like this, "I can't serve because I don't。
have the time.。
I don't know how to serve them.。
It's difficult.。
It's uncomfortable.。
I don't like doing it.。
I'm really tired.。
I don't think I have the energy to do this and that."。
The problem with all of those statements is those statements are about me and what I get。
out of the act of serving.。
It's a backwards relationship.。
Ultimately, serving should be a sacrifice.。
When serving is not a sacrifice, is it really serving?。
Is it really satisfying?。
We're going to talk tonight about serving the Lord Jesus Christ as a person saved from。
our sins by his blood, as a person filled with his life-giving spirit as being fully。
satisfying.。
I want to look at a few verses from a famous story in John 4.。
We know it as Jesus and the woman at the well.。
The background we read is that Jesus was tired.。
He was fully human and he sat down by a well.。
We read, "When a Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, 'Will you give me。
a drink?'"。
Now this was all wrong.。
Jesus, a Jewish man, talking to a Samaritan, talking to a Samaritan woman, talking to a。
Samaritan woman with a past, talking to a Samaritan woman with a past who was there。
in the midday to probably avoid being seen by the village gossips.。
But you know it was not about a drink he needed.。
It was all about what she needed.。
We then witness a most, I can only say, a bizarre conversation about a drink that Jesus。
didn't really want from a woman who didn't think he should be asking her, leading to。
a discussion which interplays between the water from the well and this thing called。
living water.。
She says, "I don't know what this living water is, but it sounds like I should have some."。
Let's read a few verses.。
The woman said to him, "Sir, you have nothing to draw water with and the well is deep.。
Where do you get that living water?。
Are you greater than our father Jacob?。
He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock."。
Jesus said to her, "Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever。
drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again.。
The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal。
life."。
I guess what I'm saying is that the spring of water welling up to eternal life has to。
result in three key things.。
Firstly, it needs to result in love.。
The Bible tells us, doesn't it, you should love the Lord your God with all your heart,。
your soul, and all your mind, and wait for it, and love your neighbor as yourself.。
It has to result in growth.。
Through all the things that we spoke about in January, remember unity, community, word。
and witness, and last but not least, it has to result in action.。
Truly I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these, my brothers, you did it。
to me.。
You did it to me.。
Yes, save people, serve people.。
Jesus said that if she drank the water from the well, she would be thirsty again in no。
time, especially in the midday humidity, and we knew that today in Hong Kong, didn't we?。
But Jesus said if she drank this living water, she would never go thirsty again.。
No wonder she ran to the city and proclaimed to them, "Come and see a man.。
Could this be the Christ?"。
This leads me to the passage that Bonnie read earlier.。
We know it as the feeding of the 5,000.。
It's actually the only miracle that is recorded in all four Gospels.。
But the custom of the time was to count heads of household, and Scripture tells us there。
were 5,000 men with additional women and children.。
So the final tally could be closer to 15,000 or even more.。
It is Mark 6, 13 to 44, and begins with the disciples returning from a mission trip and。
giving a report.。
I know Johnny will be taking a team off to Cambodia in a couple of weeks' time, and one。
of the highlights of the mission trip is when they come back with their report, right?。
What happened?。
We read in verse 30, "The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all they had done and。
taught."。
So many people were coming and going as a direct result of this outreach.。
Many had been saved, many had been healed, that Jesus said, "Come away by yourselves。
to a desolate place and rest for a while."。
For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat.。
It must have seemed like paradise to the disciples, you know, down time after a mission trip.。
You know what it's like, right?。
I understand this.。
You put your feet up and at last can have a sleep.。
But the crowd just grew and grew and grew.。
The disciples weren't worried at first.。
They were resting on the boat.。
They were ready for 40 winks.。
But hold on, verse 32.。
"And they went away into a boat to a desolate place by themselves.。
Now many saw them going and recognized them.。
And they ran there on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them."。
Uh-oh.。
Now read on.。
"When he went ashore, he saw a great crowd and he had compassion on them because they。
were like sheep without a shepherd.。
And he began to teach them many things.。
And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, 'This is a desolate place。
and the hour is now late.。
Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves。
something to eat.'"。
Now there is an interesting Greek word that is used here for compassion.。
I love this word.。
Splagnitzai.。
It literally means to be moved as to one's bowels.。
A compassion in the most innermost place in my gut.。
The only time it's used in scripture other than regarding Jesus was the Good Samaritan.。
The disciples were thinking, "What a time!。
Jesus, what a time to have Splagnitzai!"。
Now wait for it.。
It gets worse.。
"But he answered them, 'You!。
You give them something to eat!'"。
Now on the face of it, the disciples' requests had been reasonable.。
They were tired.。
They were in a desolate spot.。
There was no Fairwoods or McDonald's there.。
Notice I didn't use KFC for obvious reasons.。
It was dark and the crowd was staying as long as Jesus was preaching.。
It sounded sensible and reasonable to stop the teaching and send them off for food in。
a nearby village.。
Reasonable.。
But Jesus' response sounded anything other than reasonable.。
He said, "You!。
You give them something to eat!"。
Prompting the disciples' somewhat sarcastic response.。
"Should we go and buy 200 denarii of worth of bread and give them to eat?。
That's half a year's wages!。
You want us to spend that much on bread for the crowd?"。
Then look at this.。
It's on the screen.。
He said to them, "How many loaves do you have?。
Go and see."。
And when they found out, they said, "Five and two small fish."。
Then he commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass.。
They sat in groups by hundreds and by fifties and taking the five loaves and the two fish,。
he looked up to heaven and said a blessing and broke the loaves and gave them to the。
disciples to set before the people.。
And he divided the two fish among them all.。
And they all ate and were satisfied.。
And they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish.。
I guess it's fish pie tomorrow, right?。
And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.。
Now some points here.。
It's a familiar story, I know.。
But at the same time, there's some lessons here about serving.。
Number one is this.。
Everyone is hungry.。
In this story, the disciples were hungry.。
They had no leisure even to eat.。
The crowd were hungry.。
He said, "Send them away into the surrounding countryside to buy themselves something to。
eat."。
Hunger here equates to lack of satisfaction.。
The crowd have left their home.。
They've left their food on the shelves because of Jesus.。
He was preaching.。
He was teaching.。
He was healing.。
The crowd had skipped meals because they were hungry for Jesus.。
They could go for days.。
Even the last month or so, we've seen congregations in places like Asbury just going on for days.。
Just because they were hungry for Jesus.。
God has created a hunger, a hungry man that only he can fill.。
So everyone is hungry, especially Johnny, by the way.。
Second point is you are invited to a miracle.。
You're invited to a miracle when you serve the Lord.。
You get front row seats to see unmet needs met by Jesus.。
This is grace.。
Verse 37, Jesus said, "You give them something to eat."。
This was a bit like our schedules here in Hong Kong.。
The disciples were maxed out.。
People in Hong Kong are so busy.。
People wear their busyness like a badge.。
I often ask people, "How are you?"。
You know what they reply?。
"I'm busy."。
Not the question.。
We can be so busy that we can miss the miracle.。
My third point is really three words.。
Blessed, broken, and given away.。
They're all in one verse here.。
They find the little that they have.。
In this case, it was five loaves and two small fish.。
I want to read it again.。
And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing。
and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the people.。
And he divided the two fish amongst them.。
This represents for us a pattern of what he does for us.。
You say to me, "Pastor John, I've so little to offer.。
I can't sing, play music.。
I've never preached a sermon.。
I've never led anyone to Christ."。
Well, I've got news for you today.。
Just as Jesus used a little boy's packed lunch to feed the multitudes with baskets left over,。
you offer him what you have and he will bless, break, and give away.。
Let's look at those three.。
Bless.。
Jesus blessed the bread.。
We read that.。
Jesus blesses us.。
Breaks.。
This is so important.。
Jesus broke the bread.。
Jesus breaks us.。
This is very hard, but so important that Jesus breaks us so that we're ready to be given。
out.。
And then thirdly, he gives away.。
Jesus gave the bread to his disciples.。
He will use us to feed the multitudes with his love.。
Can I just expand that broken bit for a moment?。
As I said earlier, God breaks things in our lives.。
We all have things that God needs to break in our lives.。
Attitudes, bad habits, secret sins.。
But he also breaks our heart for things.。
What breaks your heart may be different to the things that break my heart.。
Don't we sing, "Break my heart for what breaks yours, Jesus."。
But when your heart breaks for them, it invariably means that Jesus wants you to do something.。
You'll have the privilege over the next few weeks to hear people who God has broken their。
hearts for the poor, for refugees, for those who are without sight, for the orphan and。
the unborn child.。
I'll tell you more in a moment.。
God is not looking for your excuses.。
I believe for everyone that's here, God wants to do something extraordinary in your lives.。
He wants you to offer him your ordinary.。
He will add his extra and make it extraordinary.。
I've put it on the screen.。
He takes our ordinary, he gives the extra, and he makes it extraordinary.。
My friend, over the next two months, and obviously after that as well, we want to encourage you。
to give what is ordinary for you.。
This is what we have in store for you.。
I've put the schedule up.。
What we'll be doing is this, is that every other week I'll be sharing from this series,。
and the intervening weeks we'll have some champions here.。
Next week, my birthday party week, just saying, we'll have Dr. Susanna Hoy from the Hong Kong。
Christian Network for the Poor.。
Those of you who don't know her, Pastor Peter is part of their advisory board.。
It's going to be a real treat for us to hear Susanna here next week.。
In three weeks' time, we have Green Matonga from Branches of Hope.。
She's working with the refugee and asylum seeker program there.。
Again, someone we as a church support.。
In five weeks' time, we're having Joyce from New Sight in Congo, just to have a look at。
what happens when we look at people who've, she's a Hong Kong lady and she's gone overseas。
to Congo, and she's dealing with people who have no sight in Congo.。
That's going to be quite incredible.。
And then lastly, Ali Amarwa, heirs from Mother's Choice, is going to be talking about the unborn。
baby and the orphans.。
Each champion will come and will be sharing ways that we can be involved practically.。
But I hear you say, "How do I get started?"。
Well, it's as simple as one, two, three.。
Number one, start where you are.。
Let me give you a place to begin.。
It starts where you are.。
Pick one household.。
I use the term household because I want you to think beyond just one person.。
This might be a co-worker.。
It might be another student in class, maybe someone or a family that lives in our apartment。
building.。
Just pick one household of someone disconnected from a church and where you see a need that。
can be served.。
Remember, we're talking about five loaves and two fish, something small.。
Don't wait passively for someone else's need to drop into your lap.。
Make an intentional decision tonight to pick one household of someone you know who is disconnected。
from a church.。
It starts there.。
Number two, pray for opportunity.。
Start regularly bringing the person or people of this one household before God in prayer.。
Remember, during Lent we started off the prayer for all, praying for five people.。
Continue to do that.。
Find someone who is on your heart.。
Continually pray for them.。
Particularly be praying for an opportunity to surface where you can serve the needs of。
this household.。
You're just praying for an opening to get into this person's life in a way that can。
help.。
That's all.。
Thirdly, and this is important, pursue relationship.。
However God answers that prayer for an opportunity to serve the needs of someone else in my community,。
take that as an opportunity for relationship.。
I've said this before about serving others.。
Nobody wants to be treated as a project.。
They want to be acknowledged as a person.。
You look for ways to bridge your actions of service into moments of relationship.。
Pursuing relationship communicates something.。
It tells someone else that they matter to you.。
In pursuing a relationship, I open the door for sharing to someone else that God loves。
them and that they matter to God.。
Because I love God, they matter to me too.。
God himself has provided all we need to follow him.。
He has revealed himself to us through his word so that we can know God and we can love。
God.。
He has established his church as a place in which we grow relationships of accountability。
to hold one another up in faith.。
And he has placed before us opportunities to meet the needs of those in our community。
so that we can share God's love and grace.。
Yes.。
Save people.。
Love people.。
But can I finish with a word of caution?。
Can I finish with a word of warning?。
Doing a sermon series on serving will not make us a serving church.。
Having guest speakers will not suddenly make us a serving church.。
Having a community centre does not suddenly make us a serving church.。
What we need, and we need it desperately, we need a culture shift.。
As I look out on this congregation, what we need to move away from is the same people。
who volunteer for everything while everyone else looks on.。
I'll say that again.。
I mean it when we ask for volunteers.。
We get volunteers but it's the same people.。
I want to give you a spoiler alert.。
How about that?。
Next week we will be sharing some simple opportunities for service.。
Nothing difficult.。
We'll be sharing.。
What I'm expecting is this.。
I'm expecting all of you to sign up.。
Yes, all of you.。
As you can tell, I'm restless about this.。
I am passionate for long-term change.。
As I ask the band to join me, we're going to be singing "There Must Be More Than This".。
And my friends, there is.。
And we are going to discover this together.。
My question is, will you join me on this journey?。
Let's please stand.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
