(silence)。
- Hello everybody, it's so awesome。
to be able to speak to you tonight about Samson.。
And we are well underway in our theme of the book of Judges.。
And we've gone through chapter one and two,。
we went through Ehud, Deborah, Gideon,。
and all these other amazing Judges.。
And today we are talking about Samson,。
the victory on Jawbone Hill.。
Now to start off, it's gonna be a little bit interactive,。
get ready on the chat.。
Who likes riddles?。
Anybody likes riddles here?。
Okay, so what we're gonna do, this is the first riddle.。
Okay, you can type the answer in the chat。
and maybe we'll have a prize for those who win, all right?。
I see Mark and Veronica getting ready.。
What has a face and two hands, but no arms or legs?。
So what has a face, if we can go to that slide there.。
Oh, very good, Mark, you're so good, you got it, very good.。
Okay, here's the second one.。
What five letter word becomes shorter。
when you add two letters to it?。
What five letter word?。
Wow, Hanani, wow, you guys are so good, all of you.。
You guys are our riddlers, all of you.。
And the reason why I wanted to start with a couple riddles,。
hello gets shorter, I guess, maybe, helloer.。
The reason why I wanted to start off with the riddle。
is because Samson was not only known for his strength,。
he was also known for his riddles.。
And so we're gonna start off Judges chapter 13.。
And how do you think Judges chapter 13 starts off?。
Actually, it starts off in exactly the same way。
as most of the chapters,。
that Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord.。
So the Lord delivered them into the hands。
of the Philistines for 40 years.。
And so we see in the book of Judges,。
this continuous cycle, right?。
That there's peace and then Israel sins.。
They get caught up in their neighbors.。
Oh, I see my neighbor has a nice idol。
or my neighbor has this or that.。
I wanna become my neighbor.。
And they fall into sin and they start to worship other gods.。
And what happens is God punishes them。
and sends people to oppress them.。
Just like this time,。
the Philistines were oppressing Israel.。
And then usually what happens。
is there's a time of repentance, right?。
They say, "Sorry, God,。
we can't endure this suffering anymore.。
Lord, please help us."。
And then God sends them Judges, right?。
Like Ehud, like Deborah,。
like the people that we've been going through。
all these weeks.。
But however, this week is a little bit different.。
Israel did not repent.。
If you notice in chapter, in verse one there,。
Israel did not repent,。
but yet the Lord still delivered them,。
delivered them, sent them a deliver.。
And that's because God wanted to deliver them。
out of the hands of the Philistines and their corruption.。
And slowly their gods would be influencing。
the way they talk and their thinking and their beliefs.。
And God wanted to take them away from that.。
And so God sent a deliverer.。
And we see in verse two, as we continue to read there,。
"A certain man of Zorah named Menorah。
from the clan of the Danites。
had a wife who was childless, unable to give birth.。
The angel of the Lord appeared to her and said,。
"You are barren and childless,。
that you are going to become pregnant。
and give birth to a son.。
Now see to it that you drink no wine。
or other fermented drink,。
and that you do not eat anything unclean.。
You will become pregnant and have a son。
whose head is never touched by a razor。
because the boy is a Nazarite,。
dedicated to God from the womb.。
He will take the lead in delivering Israel。
from the hands of the Philistines."。
And so this angel of the Lord appeared。
to Samson's father, Zorah, and his wife.。
And chapter 13 continues with this amazing dialogue。
between the angel and Zorah and his wife.。
And these are just amazing parents.。
They were like, "Wow, we're gonna have a child.。
How can we take care of this child?"。
And they were like, "God, can you send this angel,。
this man of God back to us。
so that we can learn how to take care of this child?"。
And the angel of the Lord,。
they didn't know it was an angel at first,。
came back and he said to them, "You will become pregnant.。
Your wife must do all that I have told her.。
You must not eat anything。
that comes from the grape wine, nor drink any wine。
or fermented drink, nor eat anything unclean.。
She must do everything I have commanded."。
The woman gave birth to a boy and named him Samson.。
He grew and the Lord blessed him.。
And the spirit of the Lord began to stir him。
while he was in Mahana, Dan,。
and between Zorah and Eshtetl.。
All right, so we're gonna learn a couple things today。
about Samson the Nazarite.。
And we're gonna see five aspects of his story.。
Firstly, we're gonna see Samson's vow and then vice.。
He goes through some, everybody has their own vices.。
He goes through a period of affliction。
and then he has revenge and retaliation.。
Now, if you wanna remember these sort of points,。
you can remember VAR.。
I know some people don't like VAR for certain reasons。
because some goals are prevented.。
If you know what VAR is,。
you can have a Google of that if you don't know.。
And so VAR, the first one is vow, Samson's vow.。
Samson was a Nazarite.。
And what does it mean to be a Nazarite?。
Well, we see here that a Nazarite means to be separated。
or consecrated in special service for God.。
We see that in Numbers 6, verse 1 to 21.。
And what does it involve?。
It involves three restrictions, three restrictions.。
The first is you can't drink, okay?。
I know some people like their wine。
and this was one of the restrictions.。
You could not drink.。
Secondly, you could not cut your hair.。
I know, I'm sorry, Kathy,。
it wouldn't be good for your business, right?。
(laughs)。
If everybody was a Nazarite,。
it would not be good for the hairstylists.。
The last thing is you could not touch a dead body,。
human or animal, human or animal.。
And this is actually very similar。
to the vow of a high priest.。
The high priest also had these restrictions。
that they could not drink and similarly cut their hair。
or touch the unclean.。
And we see this in the book of Leviticus.。
If you look through the book of Leviticus,。
the high priest also has these certain。
similar sort of restrictions.。
And so we go to the story now.。
Let's look at the map of Israel.。
So Samson is in Zorah, okay?。
So Zorah is in the middle here.。
I don't know if you can see that.。
That's where the red line starts.。
Yeah, right there where the mouse is.。
And Bonnie's doing an excellent job there.。
So he is born in Zorah and he's gonna go to Timnah。
where he meets a certain woman.。
And later he will be going down to near the Mediterranean Sea。
and there's gonna be a battle there。
and we will continue and see the story.。
So we went through Samson's vow。
and then now we're gonna go through Samson's vice.。
And so we will continue to read in Judges chapter 14.。
"Samson went down to Timnah and at Timnah,。
"he saw one of the girls,。
"one of the daughters of the Philistines.。
"Then he came up and told his father and mother,。
"I saw one of the daughters of the Philistines at Timnah.。
"Now get her for me as my wife.。
"But his father and mother said to him,。
"is there not a woman among the daughters of your relatives。
"or among all our people that you must go to take a wife。
"from the uncircumcised Philistines?。
"But Samson said to his father,。
"get her for me for she is right in my eyes."。
Now, if you see the highlighted text there,。
what Samson saw, he wanted.。
He saw the daughters of the Philistines.。
He saw this woman and he said,。
"She is right for me in my eyes."。
And so he wanted to marry this woman.。
And so they arranged a marriage。
and the parents went down to Timnah.。
And when they were on their way to Timnah,。
there was a lion.。
A lion came and rushed after them.。
I don't know if you've been hiking before,。
if you were hiking and then,。
oh no, there's a snake or oh no, there's a wild dog。
and you're all of a sudden alarmed, right?。
And you wanna run away, but Samson does not run away.。
And we see here in the next slide,。
then the spirit of the Lord rushed upon Samson。
and although he had nothing in his hand,。
he tore the lion in pieces as one tears a young goat.。
You see in the picture here,。
Samson just tearing the lion, the jaws of the lion apart.。
Now, this painting, lovely painting is by Giordano.。
I don't think it's related to the Hong Kong fashion,。
but Giordano was a painter。
and he painted this picture of Samson and the lion.。
And so he went away, he killed the lion。
and then on his way back,。
somehow he was traveling back and forth.。
He saw the lion again and within the lion,。
what did he see within this dead carcass?。
There was honey, there was bees flying around, right?。
And imagine there's honey in a dead carcass,。
who would eat it?。
Honey from a dead carcass, anybody raise their hand.。
Mark, is that a hand up?。
No?。
I don't think anybody would really wanna eat honey。
from a dead carcass, right?。
But what he saw, he wanted.。
And yeah, exactly, Michelle, you don't wanna eat it, right?。
As much as you love honey in your tea.。
But he wanted what he saw。
and honey gave his mouth pleasure。
and he loved the sweet stuff and he ate it。
and he gave some to his parents without telling them。
that it was from a dead carcass.。
And so because he ate from this dead carcass,。
the honey from this dead carcass,。
he violated one of the restrictions.。
And what was that restriction?。
That you could not touch a dead body.。
And so Samson violated that.。
Next, he goes to his wedding banquet, right?。
And at a wedding banquet,。
you have feast and you have drinking。
and there the riddler within Samson comes out。
and he says to his guests。
and all his companions that were there,。
"If you can answer this riddle,。
"I will give you 30 garments and 30 clothes."。
Back then that was like amazing, right?。
It'd be like, oh, if you get this riddle,。
imagine if you were at Ben and Fanny's wedding, right?。
And you were just like,。
"Hey, I wanna give you guys a contest," right?。
Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding.。
It's a weird contest, but the groom says,。
"I wanna give you guys a contest.。
"I will give you 30 LV and 30 Gucci, right?。
"If you can answer this riddle。
"and at the end of seven days, if you can't answer it,。
"then you have to give me 30 linen garments and 30 clothes."。
And so this was the riddle.。
Out of the eater, something to eat.。
Out of the strong, something sweet, right?。
And that was obviously the lion, right?。
And so we see in verse 18 what will happen next.。
And so the Philistines that were there。
and celebrating at the banquet,。
they were stumped, right?。
I don't know.。
I don't know exactly how to answer this.。
I don't wanna lose 30 linen garments.。
I don't wanna lose, I don't wanna lose face, right?。
I wanna win, right?。
And so they go to his wife,。
this woman who is gonna marry Samson.。
And we're like, "How could you give us this shame?。
"We're gonna lose this contest, this riddle.。
"We're gonna lose it."。
And so they keep nagging and threatening his wife.。
And then his wife goes to Samson and like,。
"Oh no, Samson, you brought me such shame.。
"Like how could you do this, right?。
"In front of my own family and people and relatives,。
"how could you do this to me?"。
And he keeps nagging Samson day after day after day.。
And Samson just finally gives in and was like,。
"Finally, okay, I'll tell you the answer.。
"I haven't even told my parents。
"that I will tell you the answer."。
And so we see in verse 18 what happens.。
Before sunset on the seventh day,。
the men of the town said to him,。
"What is sweeter than honey?。
"What is stronger than a lion?"。
Samson said to them,。
"If you had not plowed with my heifer,。
"you would have not solved my riddle."。
And so at that time,。
then the spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon him。
and he went down to Eshkodlin,。
struck down 30 of their men,。
stripped them of everything。
and gave their clothes to those。
who had explained the riddle.。
Burning with anger,。
he returned home to his father's home.。
And Samson's wife was given to one of his companions。
who attended the feast with him.。
So we see Samson's vice.。
His vice was he goes after what is in his eyes.。
What he sees,。
he sees that beautiful girl。
and he wants that beautiful girl.。
He sees the honey and is like,。
"Wow, it's so sweet.。
"Wow, I want that."。
Right?。
And then he disobeys the Nazirite vow.。
And what happens?。
He also responds in anger.。
Right?。
He either wants with,。
he wants, he's a hedonist.。
He wants what his eyes see.。
He wants that taste of honey.。
And then he also has an anger issue.。
Right?。
And so that was Samson's vice.。
The next thing we see is Samson's affliction.。
His wife betrays him.。
Right?。
That wouldn't be very nice.。
Would you like your wife to betray you。
on your wedding banquet?。
That wouldn't be very nice.。
And then what happens afterwards?。
His father-in-law gives his wife over to his best man.。
Talk about drama.。
Days of our lives, right?。
This is crazy.。
His wife is given to his best man.。
His father-in-law betrays him.。
And so we see next Samson's revenge.。
He's angry and he goes down。
and causes,。
he kills all these people just to get the clothes。
for these Philistines.。
And next, what does he do?。
He catches 30 foxes.。
30 foxes.。
Has anybody caught a fox before?。
Yeah?。
Is it popular in the UK?。
I don't, I know they do fox hunting,。
but it might not be that easy, right?。
To catch foxes.。
Well, maybe he was also a beast master or something.。
I don't know.。
How do you catch 30 foxes?。
He must've been really fast。
or he must've had some bait or something, right?。
But he catches these foxes and ties them by the tail.。
And then he puts a torch,。
lights a torch between their tails.。
And he sends them off into the Philistines'。
grain and orchids.。
And of course, all of their grain is just on fire, right?。
And all their food is on fire.。
It's just, it's destruction everywhere, right?。
And the Philistines are like, how did this happen?。
Who is responsible for this?。
And the people were like, Samson is responsible.。
And so the Philistines go to the Israelite territory。
and attack the Israelites.。
And the Israelites were like, why are you attacking us?。
Like, we are under your rule and we accept it, right?。
But then the Philistines said to them,。
we only want one person and that is Samson.。
We want revenge on what he has done to us.。
And he's destroyed our crops and attacked our people.。
And so the Israelites went to Samson。
and was like, bro, what you doing?。
Bro, what you doing, man?。
You're causing all this conflict.。
And it's affecting us.。
The Philistines are our rulers.。
What are you doing?。
And so Samson was like, okay, I'll do as you guys say.。
You guys can bind me and take me to the Philistines.。
And so Samson was bound by straw and the hands。
and he was delivered to the Philistines.。
And as soon as he saw the Philistines,。
what happened?。
We see in the next slide.。
Then the spirit of the Lord rushed upon him。
and the ropes that were in his arms。
became as flax that has caught fire.。
And his bonds melted off his hand。
and the bonds melted off his hands.。
And he found a fresh jawbone from a donkey。
and put out his hand and took it.。
And with it, he struck a thousand men.。
Once again, this is artwork from Giordano,。
sponsored by Giordano today.。
And he took that jawbone。
and just totally destroyed a thousand Philistines.。
What a crazy battle it must've been.。
A thousand on one.。
You would have thought the Philistines。
would have had a better strategy.。
You know, a thousand to one,。
maybe have a better formation or I don't know,。
maybe track them somewhere.。
Like a thousand to one and he has a jawbone?。
Come on, right?。
But the spirit of the Lord was the one that empowered him.。
The spirit of the Lord,。
we see that empowering in his life several times.。
And so what can we learn from the story of Samson today?。
What can we learn?。
The first thing is that just as God called Samson。
to be a Nazirite, the Nazirite vow,。
consecrated, separated for the service of the Lord.。
God has also called us for those who are in Christ Jesus,。
who have confessed him to be Lord and Savior.。
God has called us to be his holy people, right?。
God has also told us that we are to be his light。
and his salt, to be a city on a hill.。
God has called us to be his people.。
I believe that for all of us,。
God has a general calling。
and God also has a specific calling for you.。
It might be a specific calling to go and work。
in the financial field.。
It could be a specific calling to work in high school。
or to reach a certain group of people.。
I remember when I was 14 and at church,。
we have the summer camp and during summer camp,。
we have a dedication night.。
The first dedication is dedicating ourselves to the Lord,。
to be our Lord and Savior.。
The second is to live for Christ。
and the third one was to go into full-time ministry.。
I wanna devote my life to become a pastor or a missionary。
and when I was 14, I felt the Spirit of the Lord。
come into my heart and I was so emotional.。
I felt him calling me and saying,。
"Jesus has given up everything for me."。
What is my response?。
What is my response?。
And my response was like,。
if Jesus has given everything for me,。
I should give everything to the Lord as well。
and I stood up and said,。
"I am willing, Lord, to go wherever you call me。
"and if it's to be a pastor or to be a missionary,。
"I want to obey your calling."。
And I didn't know at that time what it would be like,。
what my journey would be,。
but I was willing to obey the Lord and his calling.。
And so what is God's calling for your life?。
God has a general calling for us。
to go and share the gospel, to be his light,。
to be his holy people,。
but God may also have a specific calling for you。
to reach a certain people group,。
to work in a certain vocation,。
to go into full-time ministry.。
What is God's calling for you?。
The second thing we learn from the story of Samson。
is that we can choose.。
We have a choice.。
Samson chose his vice,。
his vice of his eyes.。
He sought after what he saw with his eyes.。
He was a hedonist.。
That we can choose victory over sin.。
We can choose victory instead of vice.。
And there are so many temptations in our life today.。
Satan tries to throw so many curve balls at us。
to steer us away from God, to following God.。
Just like Israel, they were like,。
"Oh, Philistines have this God.。
"They have this ruler.。
"We want this, we want that."。
They were influenced by that.。
And it's so easy to be influenced by our culture。
and the people around us.。
But instead of choosing our vices,。
we all have weaknesses.。
We can choose victory over sin.。
We can choose victory over sin.。
And the third point is this,。
that the spirit of the Lord empowers us.。
The spirit of the Lord was working when Samson was born.。
The spirit of the Lord was working when the lion came.。
The spirit of the Lord came upon him。
when he defeated the people, the Philistines with a jabba.。
The Holy Spirit empowers us.。
We can't live the Christian life on our own strength.。
We need the Holy Spirit.。
And that's the gift of the Holy Spirit.。
If you have confessed Jesus to be your Lord and Savior,。
you have the Holy Spirit inside of you.。
You have God inside of you.。
That's so amazing.。
And this Holy Spirit convicts us of our sin.。
It guides us in the way we should go.。
It empowers us to do things。
immediately more than we can ask or imagine.。
God has commissioned us to go to the ends of the earth,。
to share the gospel, to make disciples of all nations.。
Are you willing to be empowered by the Holy Spirit?。
Surrender to him.。
So the third point was commission.。
And the last thing is this,。
that God can make good out of evil.。
God can make good out of evil.。
Samson wasn't really a good judge, right?。
Like he just went after his temptations.。
He responded in anger.。
These things are not what the Lord wants us to do, right?。
But God made good out of evil.。
God made good out of evil.。
He used Samson as a way to have deliverance。
against the Philistines.。
And we see this throughout history,。
that God uses the weak things of this world。
to shame the wise, to shame the strong.。
You know, Apostle Paul had conflict。
with the other disciples, other apostles, right?。
It was Silas, right?。
Or Barnabas, he had conflict with them.。
You know, Silas wanted to take Mark,。
but Paul was like, "Mark, you know,。
he deserted me on my last missionary trip.。
I don't wanna take Mark."。
And so they had conflict with each other and they split off.。
But God still used their conflict for good。
to share the gospel in different places in minor Asia.。
God can make good out of evil.。
And even if we fall, and we will fall sometimes,。
God is like a GPS, right?。
Who's used the GPS before?。
Sometimes it can be quite annoying, right?。
Please make a U-turn,。
or it's usually in a British accent, right?。
Please make a U-turn.。
Turn left here.。
No?。
Okay, you can switch languages, I think, or accents.。
But the GPS always tells you where you've gone wrong.。
It says, "Take a U-turn here.。
You've gone the wrong direction."。
It sends you another route.。
Terrible English accent.。
Yes, James, your accent is much better.。
(laughs)。
And God is like that.。
He's always pursuing us.。
Just like the song we sang,。
God is rushing after us.。
He's pursuing us.。
And God is like a GPS.。
And this is from Francis Chan,。
that God is like a GPS.。
And the next thing is,。
not only does God make good out of evil,。
he is working even when we don't see it.。
God is working in miraculous ways.。
For our good, he works for the good of those who love him.。
And he wants you to fulfill your calling, glorify him,。
to choose victory over vice.。
He wants you to go out to be commissioned。
with his power and authority。
and the power of the Holy Spirit。
to make disciples of all nations,。
go to the ends of the earth.。
And he wants you to know that he is in control.。
Even in 2020, when everything seems like it's a mess,。
or even right now, maybe you feel isolated.。
Maybe you feel like things aren't going the way。
that you want it to.。
God is still working.。
He loves you.。
He cared for the Israelites.。
He cares for you.。
And he wants you to pursue him.。
Let's pray together.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for the story of Samson.。
And even though he did not do a lot of good things,。
you still used him to make good out of evil.。
I pray, Lord, that we can learn from his mistakes.。
And instead of choosing our vices, we would choose victory.。
That we would choose to be empowered by the Holy Spirit,。
to surrender to the Holy Spirit,。
and to know that you are in control.。
Even in the midst of this virus,。
even in the midst of social distancing, you are in control,。
and you have what is best for us.。
Bless us, Lord, as we respond in song.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
