(electronic clicking)。
Hello, and welcome back to SPAN TV,。
and it's time for another NAS face-off.。
Slight difference this time.。
I know you guys are probably sick of the Synology。
versus QNAP, QNAP versus Synology videos I do,。
so we're trying to phase in more and more brands。
and get the brands interested,。
and more importantly, to give you a better understanding。
of which NASes you should get。
for your individual media setup.。
So, as you can tell from the title,。
this comparison is going to be。
between the WD MyCloud EX2 Ultra,。
WD's latest NAS there, the 2-Bay,。
and we're gonna face it off against。
Synology's own latest 2-Bay cost-effective NAS,。
Synology's DS216J, a very popular NAS indeed,。
and it's a NAS a lot of people,。
a lot of you guys out there are asking us。
to compare other units against.。
Now, there's no denying they're part。
of the cost-effective bracket of NAS.。
That is to say that you're not paying a huge amount,。
but what you get, you do get quite a lot of features.。
So, you can forget about things like Plex Media transcoding。
and high-end 4K surveillance,。
and the big, big, and virtualization。
would be an absolute joke on these two NASes,。
to be perfectly honest with you,。
but at the same time,。
there are lots of things these NASes can do,。
and if you are sticking towards the more traditional,。
old-school ways of using NAS file backup,。
media streaming, DLNA, the occasional image backup,。
then these NASes might be right for you,。
but of course, you don't know which one's,。
you know, it's better of the two,。
which one better suits your needs.。
So, what we're gonna do is we're gonna break down。
the pluses, the minuses,。
and give you a better understanding。
which one deserves your data.。
So, straight away, probably one of the more important factors。
for a great many of you is, of course, cost.。
I can tell you right now that the WD MyCloud EX2。
arrives at span.com, available now for, nice plug,。
£123 without the VAT and without drives.。
However, this unit can be purchased with drives,。
and those are WD drives installed at WD MyCloud system.。
And suitably, those drives are reduced in price as well.。
So, if you do buy this unit pre-populated with drives,。
you will find those prices are lower。
once you've installed the hardware, the hard drives.。
Whereas the Synology DS216J arrives at £119,。
so it's the cheaper of the two.。
However, it should be stated that you can't purchase。
this unit pre-populated in the conventional sense.。
You can buy this unit from vendors,。
including span.com, again, subtle plug,。
with drives inside.。
Now, install the drives for you at no additional cost,。
but of course, the drives will still work out。
more expensive on the whole once installed in the Synology。
as they would be if they're pre-installed,。
pre-populated in the WD, so do bear that in mind.。
So, yes, the Synology is the cheaper of the two,。
but once you start looking at these devices。
with the hard drives installed,。
the WD will work out a pinch cheaper,。
particularly given that you will be installing。
most likely in this day and age,。
and the popularity of them, WD Red NAS hard drives.。
Anyway, the drives that are installed in this device.。
So, for the price round, I'm gonna give this to the Synology。
with that extra caveat.。
Now, they're both 2-Bay NASes.。
Neither of them can be expanded in the conventional sense。
with an expansion, but you can attach USB drives.。
We'll get to that later on about ports.。
With regards to the hardware,。
the MyCloud EX2 arrives with a Marvell Armada 385 chip,。
and that's a dual-core 1.3 gigahertz CPU,。
and the unit also arrives with one gigabyte of DDR3 RAM.。
The Synology DS216J, as mentioned in other videos,。
arrives with the Marvell Armada 385,。
exactly the same kind of chip,。
but a lower frequency, being a dual-core 1.0 gigahertz chip.。
So, a lower CPU of the two,。
and also arrives with half a gig of DDR3 RAM,。
as you can see on the screen.。
So, straight away, the WD MyCloud does have a higher spec。
with regard to those two,。
probably the most conventionally understood areas of hardware.。
It's got this lot of little thing。
about build quality and OS,。
but when it comes to those two staples of CPU and RAM,。
then these two factors in the WD give it superiority,。
and I've got to give this round to the WD.。
So, if we look at the rear of these two devices。
on the screen right now,。
'cause the front's only got some LED lights for you there,。
and a button, you can see that both of these units。
arrive with two USB 3.0 ports and a gigabit LAN port,。
and they've both got ventilation on the rear.。
But I've got to say,。
there's a little bit more ventilation throughout。
on the WD MyCloud.。
Additionally, the drives,。
once you try to install them in the two ones that you j,。
you have to dismantle the unit ever so slightly。
to slide those drives in,。
whereas with the WD MyCloud EX2,。
there is a little bit more of a hot-swapping ability there。
with the drives sliding through the two,。
but I don't advise hot-swapping on this device as such.。
But just for those ports and the physicality。
and the ventilation through the device,。
and the fact that the WD MyCloud,。
I know you can't really tell on the screen there,。
is quintessentially smaller.。
If you look at the unboxing video for both,。
you can see that they are smaller, the WD.。
I've got to give this round also to the WD,。
which is surprising even to me.。
Now, both of them have got their own software on board,。
the NAS software on the Synology, the DSM 5.2,。
whereas WD have got their own native OS on there,。
but it's not updated anywhere near as much,。
and straight away, in terms of software,。
louder rumble you're gonna hear in the video.。
The software options, the bigger and better software options。
are, is superior on the Synology,。
but we'll get to that more later on.。
And they both use an EXT4 file system internally.。
Now, with regards to use, the WD is nowhere near as diverse。
as the Synology in terms of apps and ability.。
It handles, it should be said, though,。
it does handle traditional NAS needs,。
as mentioned earlier in the video, very, very well,。
and in many respects, superior to the Synology.。
The DLNA media sharing, it communicated with my PS4。
a lot better than the Synology.。
It sort of popped up immediately and integrated。
and accessed those directly, and the files were distributed。
a lot quicker and automatically better than in the Synology,。
where I had to create directories first.。
As a media server, they're pretty much even,。
and as a mail server, even still,。
but as a download server, the Synology was a little better.。
I think it just gave more license to do more things。
as a download station.。
But the WD did hold its own very, very well.。
As an image backup for you Apple Time Machine users。
out there, both of these units are completely compatible。
with Apple Time Machine.。
However, the WD lets you create those images。
with the Apple software, whereas with the Synology,。
they're phasing out the Apple Time Machine app。
in their app store, and slowly but surely,。
as many of you may have known about the DS216J。
in previous reviews, that the image software。
that the Synology comes with is becoming。
just more compatible with Apple Time Machine.。
The Apple Time Machine app is slowly disappearing。
from the app store, but apart from that,。
the units are very, very similar indeed.。
Last quick mention, the WD My Cloud arrives。
with a Plex Media app available to be installed.。
Now, they both have that, but you have to kind of install。
it externally with the DS216J via the DSM PC。
and get the installation file and install it.。
Now, neither of these units can transcode,。
as I've mentioned earlier in the video,。
but just because that Plex Media app。
and the way it was running things,。
and of course that hardware behind it,。
software-wise, if you're going for just traditional means。
for your NAS use, go for the WD.。
Those small jobs, you know, you want them done well.。
You don't need them quickly.。
If you were looking at quickly,。
you wouldn't have been looking at budget NASes like these,。
these cost-effective NASes, but between the two of them,。
for those core NAS needs, I've got to give this。
to the WD, with the caveat that the Synology。
has a huge app store by comparison.。
You can do far more diverse things with it.。
There's Torrent, other FTP, other mouse server options.。
There's music sharing apps that you wouldn't get on the WD,。
and of course, educational apps as well,。
but they can be a little temperamental。
and they are mixed among beaters.。
With that phasing out of Apple Time Machine,。
it has put a lot of people off, but it has to be said,。
it does hold its own, and if you're looking。
for things outside of the traditional means。
of using a NAS, slightly more experimental by comparison,。
then definitely go for the Synology.。
So in many respects, for me, the WD did win。
in terms of use in the traditional sense,。
but overall, it's got to be a draw.。
Now, wrapping this comparison up,。
we can say they've both got two years。
of manufacturer's warranty, so if there's any hardware。
problems whatsoever, both respective manufacturers。
will cover you for that two-year period.。
Now, for power consumption, the WD utilised 14.1 watts。
whilst in access, and 4.22 watts whilst。
in hard drive hibernation, that is low power。
not being used idle, whereas the Synology utilised。
14.85 watts whilst in access, and 6.95 watts。
whilst in that hibernation standby,。
whatever you want to call it.。
So, less power was utilised by the WD,。
which I found a little bit surprising to be honest,。
'cause I thought Synology had really trimmed things down。
with the 216J.。
Nevertheless, I've got to give that round to the WD as well,。
and again, I'm as surprised as you are by this comparison.。
Finally, let's talk about read and write speed,。
with such similar chips, and not much of a difference。
between them, apart from the frequency and the double RAM,。
you'd think the results would be very similar indeed,。
and do you know what, they're not that far off.。
The read on a WD MyClad EX2 was 116 megabytes per second,。
and the write was 118 megabytes per second,。
where on the Synology, the DS216J,。
it was 112 megabytes per second read,。
and 97.6 megabytes per second write,。
and a lot of that is to do with that CPU。
and that RAM being lesser than its contemporary.。
So, straight away we can see the read and write,。
or upload and download, however you want to call it,。
was superior on the WD.。
So, here we are at the end of the comparison,。
it might not come as a huge surprise to tell you。
that I'm gonna put my weight, surprisingly,。
behind the WD MyClad.。
I've always put the WDs and the Seagates。
behind the Synologies and the QNAPs.。
Their software never seemed quite as user-friendly,。
and if you're completely new to NAS,。
I've always thought you would find a very smooth transition。
with the Synology, but that said,。
I'm doing a video very, very soon。
that really goes through the WD MyClad software,。
and you will see they have made drastic improvements。
to that OS, and the UI is considerably better.。
And not just that, but given the hardware。
and what you're spending and what you get,。
and not forgetting earlier in the video,。
the fact that if you buy the units pre-populated,。
they do work out cheaper overall,。
and to you people that have come。
to a cost-effective NAS video, that must be important.。
That's why the WD MyClad, for me,。
is the better NAS of these two.。
That said, if the needs you have for NAS are ever-growing,。
and you're looking for a NAS to really push the boundaries。
of network-attached storage on a server,。
then do give the DS216J a look.。
Those extra apps, the software being more fluid,。
and the fact that of the two, I would say。
that the Synology will sync much better。
with you Mac users than the WD.。
That isn't to say that it won't work with Mac,。
but you'll just feel it vibe better in the way it works,。
and the way the OS feels is far more Mac-appropriate,。
then definitely give it a look.。
So, I hope you enjoyed this comparison.。
If you're interested in purchasing。
the WD MyClad EX2 Ultra, or the Synology DS216J,。
do visit span.com now to purchase or ask questions.。
If you want to keep your thumb on the NAS Pulse Air,。
or I'm smashing that mug, the NAS Pulse,。
then do check out nascompares.com.。
And lastly, if you enjoyed this video,。
don't forget to click like and subscribe.。
