(silence)。
- Excited to be back here, to be able to share with you.。
I'll give you one minute on the family gathering。
that we're doing, that we're starting tomorrow,。
and really praying that the Lord would use it.。
It started really with Christina and I,。
and then with Joe and his dear wife Alex,。
who have become parents as well three weeks ago,。
really asking ourselves, how do we disciple our children?。
How do we disciple our family?。
And how do we disciple not just our biological children,。
but also our spiritual children?。
How do we live as a family together,。
that's devoted to one another,。
to actually walking with one another?。
And so that's why we're doing this,。
and it's a family gathering, of course,。
it's child-friendly, but it's not exclusive。
to just people with children either.。
But rather it's, how do we explore,。
how do we invest in what it means to be children of God,。
to be a family together?。
To not just do church on a, just do 90 minutes,。
one day a week, but to do more than that.。
What does that actually mean?。
So that's what the family gathering's about.。
Feel free to come and ask us any questions.。
So we've been in the UK for this long time,。
and I forgot how hot it is outside in Hong Kong.。
I also forgot how cold it is inside as well,。
with all the air con.。
So those two things were really quite a shock to us.。
And there's one question that I always dreaded。
when we got back to Hong Kong.。
Those of you who visit home will probably hear it a lot,。
especially these last few months,。
or sorry, these last few years.。
The question we got all the way was,。
hey, how's Hong Kong?。
(audience laughing)。
Right?。
And then you're like, I don't even know where to start.。
I haven't seen you for three years,。
I haven't been outside of Hong Kong for three years.。
I don't even know how to appropriately describe to you。
how's Hong Kong, right?。
Just seen so much.。
In 2003, we were in England when SARS happened.。
2014, we were in England when Occupy Central happened.。
Who would have known that in the short three years。
we had there, we would have both of those events,。
but enlarged on steroids during our time here.。
And we've just had so many different things。
that we've had to work around our head.。
Just all the events that have happened,。
and then it's just not even Hong Kong anymore.。
It's the world, right?。
You look at the news,。
you look on the other side of the world,。
and you look, man, how's the world?。
It's hard.。
And as a believer, it's particularly hard,。
because we have all these tensions。
that we have to hold, don't we?。
We have all these paradoxical tensions。
that we have to hold.。
At the beginning of the year,。
our family and I, we were like, you know what?。
It doesn't really matter what's happening outside.。
The one thing that matters the most。
is how we are on the inside,。
how thankful we are on the inside.。
So every night, our family and I, the four of us,。
we went to Muji, we bought a book each,。
and we would do our gratitude book.。
And every day we would think of one thing。
to be thankful for, and we would write it down.。
Because it's so hard.。
As a believer, how do you make sense of this world,。
still be grateful, still be filled with gratitude,。
but also still acknowledge that you're grieving,。
that you've lost things, you've lost freedom,。
you've lost time with family,。
you've lost things that you wanted to do,。
you've lost your career, whatever it might be.。
So you have grief, and you have gratitude.。
How do you hold those things together。
as you see this world seemingly tear itself apart。
or just falling apart at the seams?。
And then we have to rejoice, even in suffering.。
When things are not going well,。
when things are not going the way we want,。
yet somehow this book tells us,。
and if this book is to be believed,。
this book keeps telling us you must rejoice.。
Rejoice in the Lord.。
Again, I will say, rejoice.。
How do you rejoice?。
Through suffering.。
How do you turn sorrow into joy?。
These are the paradoxical tensions。
that we as believers have to face, right?。
These are the things that we deal with every day,。
and I'm sure that you deal with them too.。
One thing that I've realized going back to England。
and seeing my old friends and the simple life that is there,。
I realized that for me,。
life has stopped being black and white.。
I think as you age, as you gain in wisdom,。
suddenly it's, oh, things are not so black and white anymore.。
There's much more of a gray area that we're dealing with.。
And so then really the question is, what then?。
As we're stuck in this world, in this city, with this world,。
how do we as believers act?。
What is it that we should do?。
You guys have been going through。
this book of Ecclesiastes.。
Admittedly, I think Gabriel said this too,。
is it's a complicated book, not one of my favorites.。
It's confusing.。
There's so many layers to it,。
and it's just, he's talking about different things。
and going from different places.。
Of course, it's part of this genre called Hebrew wisdom.。
And the kehelet, this preacher,。
Ecclesiastes, Ecclesia is this gathering.。
So this is a gathering of wisdom almost that he does.。
As he gathers his wisdom, he then starts sharing it.。
And the first half of the book。
that you guys have just been through。
has been him basically making observations.。
He's treating it as like a scientific experiment。
as he looks at the world and he's seeing all these things.。
And he's making all these observations。
in this first half of the book。
up until the end of chapter six.。
And then in the second half, he starts dropping dimes.。
He starts dropping wisdom on how to deal。
with the observations that he just made.。
Chapter six, at the end, he asked this question.。
It's not on the slides there.。
It says, "For who knows what is good for man。
"while he lives the few days of his vain life,。
"which he passes like a shadow?"。
For who knows what is good for man?。
He's basically asking the same question I just said.。
As we live in this world, as we see all these things,。
so what?。
So what?。
What does that mean for us?。
How should we live?。
What is a good way for us to live?。
And as we look at chapter seven,。
the title is "How to be Better Off."。
As we look at chapter seven, I think he tackles this。
as he drops these nuggets of wisdom.。
What he actually does,。
he's actually trying to tune our attitude.。
He's trying to tune our approach。
and our perspective to life.。
And hopefully, as we tune our perspective to life,。
we will know how to deal with life.。
So that's what he's doing.。
He's targeting, he's attacking our perspective,。
our approach on things.。
And the first thing he does is he attacks。
or he tunes our perspective on two things,。
life and death.。
Life and death.。
Let me show you the verses.。
A good name, chapter seven, verse one.。
A good name is better than precious ointment。
and the day of death than the day of birth.。
It is better to go to the house of mourning。
than to go to the house of feasting.。
For this is the end of all mankind。
and the living will lay it to heart.。
Sorrow is better than laughter。
for by sadness of face, the heart is made glad.。
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning,。
but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.。
He's saying it's better to be at a funeral。
than to see the birth of a baby.。
Isn't that interesting?。
'Cause no one would say,。
"Oh, I'd love to go to a funeral this week."。
No one would like to say that.。
He's tackling life by talking about death.。
And death is a topic that none of us。
really like to talk about.。
Chinese culture especially, and I've talked about this,。
we despise, we're terrified of death, right?。
Everything that we do is geared towards avoiding death.。
And every way we describe something,。
something to its extreme,。
we're always talking about death.。
And I've said this before,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Everything is safe.。
Because there's something about death。
that we don't know what to do with,。
because we need to control.。
We need to control,。
but yet we don't know how to control death.。
We don't know what to do with it.。
Let me tell you about two kings.。
One of the kings is a guy called Louis XVI in France.。
He also did not like death.。
And he actually forbid people。
from mentioning the word death in his presence.。
So you were not allowed to.。
You'd have to just work around it,。
or just avoid the topic altogether.。
He didn't like it.。
There's another king called Philip II of Macedon.。
Macedon is the ancient kingdom of Macedonia.。
He had the opposite approach.。
He wanted to be reminded of death every day.。
He hired a servant to tell him every day at daybreak,。
"Philip, one day you will die."。
That was the job.。
Imagine being that servant.。
What a great job.。
You clock in at 7 a.m., you finish at 7.01,。
and then you have the rest of the day.。
"Philip, one day you will die."。
Reminds me of my daughter, actually.。
My daughter, who's growing in age and observational skills,。
she looks at me practically every day now, right?。
And she says, "Daddy, you're getting old.。
"You don't have any hair."。
Like, practically every day, she'll remind me of that, right?。
And so Philip II had this servant remind him,。
"Philip, one day you will die,"。
to remind him of his mortality,。
to remind him that life isn't all there is,。
that there is more to that.。
Alan Iverson, one of my favorite basketball players,。
would say, "I play every game as though it's my last."。
And so he had this mindset that,。
"Who knows what will happen?"。
And just to go back to Philip II of Macedon,。
this mindset of being reminded every day,。
"Philip, one day you will die,"。
his child was then Alexander the Great.。
And it's interesting, isn't it?。
Because death is an interesting thing.。
And I can say I've had an interesting relationship。
with death myself.。
Growing up, I was also afraid of death.。
In fact, there was one point,。
I've shared this story before maybe to some of you,。
as a teenager who was trying to figure out life。
and living completely in the present,。
my dad dragged me aside one day and said,。
"James, I have this feeling that one day I will die early.。
"The Lord will take me to heaven early."。
And he made me promise him to be true to my calling always.。
And from that day on, I was always thinking about death.。
I remember, so I used to work in McDonald's when I was 16,。
I remember him driving me to McDonald's,。
he was dropping me off there to go to my shift,。
and then he was actually doing a work trip,。
so he had to go.。
And in that moment, as I got out of the car。
and said goodbye to him, I was like,。
"Oh, this could be the last time I see my dad."。
Always, have you had that?。
Do you know when you say goodbye to someone。
and you're like, "Oh, this may be the last time."。
I don't know, maybe when you get older and older,。
maybe that becomes more and more common.。
But I had that feeling.。
And then what is in just that work trip,。
it was, "Oh, they're not home yet.。
"I'm just gonna sit outside。
"and just wait to see if they're back yet."。
And I had this relationship.。
And every time my mind was blank and not thinking anything,。
the word death would pop into my mind.。
It would just always be there.。
And I was terrified of it.。
One year later, he actually did die.。
After a trip to Hong Kong, we went back to England。
and had dinner, and then just at the dinner table,。
just whilst eating, he fell off and that was it.。
He was gone.。
And I'll tell you, that did one thing for me.。
It actually freed me, almost, from that fear of death.。
'Cause it's happened now.。
Do you know when your worst fear has happened?。
We spent three years avoiding COVID,。
we go to England.。
And then we caught it.。
I caught it, I went to a work trip to New York,。
so I caught the latest strain, the US strain.。
Well, got back to home, oh, caught COVID.。
I remember Paul telling me when he caught COVID。
that he had the worst sore throat he'd ever had.。
And I was like, "You're just weak."。
And then,。
and then I had it,。
and then it was just the worst sore throat I've ever had.。
I mean, I've always known that genetically,。
Paul and I are very similar.。
But for me, it was like, "Oh, we've had it, we've had it."。
And then suddenly you're not as scared.。
Suddenly it's like, "Oh, I've had it already."。
Death is an interesting one.。
So I wanna ask you, what's your relationship with death?。
'Cause he says here, "It is better to be at the day of death。
"than at the day of a birth."。
What does that mean?。
That means, are you prepared?。
Are you acceptant?。
Are you embracing the fact that you will die?。
For older people, maybe you're better at this.。
For younger people, you live as though you won't ever die.。
Can I share something with you。
that's really sad and really morbid?。
Every single person in this room will die.。
The person you're sat next to right now will die.。
How much do we think about that?。
But it's only when you think about that。
do you then get a better perspective on life.。
Because we've watched the movies where,。
actually, Chinese, again, shows you about death.。
All these TVB legend series are all about。
finding that medicine, the (speaks in foreign language)。
Am I right?。
And then I can live forever.。
And then we've watched the movies。
of the people who do live forever。
because they're immortals in some way。
or vampires in some way,。
and they're pretty, pretty grumpy.。
They're not happy at all.。
Just because you live forever。
doesn't mean you'll live a happy life.。
In fact, it's death.。
That's that expiry date that gives your life meaning,。
that suddenly makes the days that you have valuable.。
How in tune with you, are you, with your own mortality?。
That you know that one day you will die.。
You only get that when you go to a funeral.。
When you meet a young baby,。
you forget about it altogether.。
But one day, all of us will die.。
The Psalmist in 90 says, "Teach me to number my days."。
The Apostle Paul says, "To live is Christ, to die is gain."。
To get to that point where you're like,。
you know what, our amount of life on Earth,。
whether it's 10 years, 20 years, 90 years,。
100 years, 120 years,。
I think the latest oldest man in the world。
is 128 or something.。
All of that is still here.。
And then the rest of eternity is all of this.。
We've heard the two most important days in your existence。
are today and that day.。
Today, living in the present right now,。
and that day, the moment you meet your creator,。
the moment you walk through death's door。
and you realise that it's not all the end,。
in fact, it's only just the beginning.。
And that's why Paul can say,。
"To live is Christ, to die is gain."。
My desire is to depart and be with Christ,。
for that is far better.。
Because he had the right perspective on life and death.。
What about you?。
Do you live as though today is your last?。
Now, you can't really live as though today is your last,。
practically speaking.。
That cannot happen, right?。
Because if you did, then you wouldn't go to work,。
you wouldn't do your laundry,。
you wouldn't pay your taxes,。
and then you'd be in trouble the next day。
when you wake up and you're like,。
"Oh man, this is not my last day.。
"I'm in trouble now."。
So practically speaking,。
you can't live as though every day is your last,。
but can you live as though eternity is real?。
Can you live with eternity in mind?。
That actually, everything that I do today。
has earthly significance,。
but also has eternal significance.。
That every decision I make,。
whether it is to do the laundry,。
has an eternal significance.。
How I approach life,。
my perspective towards life and death is so important.。
And so we can be heavenly minded and earthly good.。
So that's the first thing he tackles.。
This perspective on life and death.。
What is your relationship with life and death?。
The second one is, he has an attack on our perspective。
on prosperity and adversity.。
And I'm gonna skip a few verses here。
'cause we won't have time to go through all of them.。
Verse 14 says this.。
In the day of prosperity, be joyful,。
and in the day of adversity, consider.。
God has made the one as well as the other,。
so that man may not find out anything。
that will be after him.。
In my vain life, I have seen everything.。
There's a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness.。
Oops, sorry.。
A man can't multitask, sorry.。
In my vain life, I have seen everything.。
There is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness,。
and there is a wicked man who prolongs his life。
in his evil do.。
So there's no guarantee.。
But somehow, some of us treat the faith like that, right?。
If I read my Bible, if I wake up, if I pray,。
if I go to church, then I'm a good person,。
and then blessings will come upon me.。
Then I will live a good life.。
God is for me, not against me,。
so therefore he will help me find a parking space today.。
And everything will be good today.。
And my wedding day will be sunny。
because I'm a righteous person, right?。
But yet, Scripture says very, very clearly,。
Kohelet observes that's not true.。
Matthew 5.45 says,。
"It rains on the righteous and the unrighteous."。
We're all subject to the humidity here in Hong Kong,。
whether you're righteous or not.。
The sun shines on the righteous or the unrighteous.。
It doesn't make a difference。
because the Christian faith, the perspective,。
isn't about whether you get a good life or not。
because that's this bit here.。
The Christian life is this, the whole of this.。
And it's a different thing。
because when you remember that,。
then it changes the way you approach。
prosperity and adversity.。
It's important because Kohelet here is saying,。
have a level-headed approach to life.。
Peter says, "Be sober."。
What does that mean?。
Don't get so drunk and high on the things of life。
and also don't drown your sorrows。
when things are not good.。
Have a level-headed approach to things.。
My dear brother and Alex, they recently had their baby。
and of course, every parent of newborns will know。
how tiring it is, how much of a rollercoaster it is,。
how much you realize。
that you are completely out of your control.。
I remember our two kids。
and you know the one thing I learned when we had our two。
was that there will be good days when you sleep,。
when my wife sleeps, gets to sleep five hours in a row。
without being interrupted.。
There will be good days but they will never last。
because in a few days' time, there will be bad days。
because there's a growth spurt, there's teething,。
there's colic, there's all these other things。
and there will be bad days.。
And then on the bad days, I remind myself,。
the bad days will also never last.。
Parenting life is just like this.。
There's good days and there's bad days.。
As a believer, how do we approach that?。
Every time something bad happens,。
we're like, "God, why me?。
"Why did I not get that job?"。
Right?。
"Why is it raining today?"。
Can you imagine?。
God's like, "No, I never promised that.。
"In fact, I told you the opposite.。
"I said, in this world, you will have trouble."。
Romans 5, it says, "It's suffering that is gonna be。
"the thing that brings out endurance。
"and then brings out character and then brings out hope."。
James 1, "It's counted all joy when you meet trials。
"of various kinds because it's that testing of your faith。
"that will make you steadfast, it will make you perfect。
"and lacking in nothing."。
I told you, I am your shepherd.。
You shall not want.。
I'll lead you beside still waters, green pastures.。
I will lead you in the right path.。
That's verse three.。
And then he says, "Even though I walk through the valley。
"of the shadow of death."。
Wait a minute, you just said you would lead me。
in the paths of righteousness for your namesake.。
And then the next verse,。
"I'm walking in the valley of the shadow of death."。
What?。
But that's what the shepherd said.。
I will lead you on the right path。
and the right path is the hard path.。
Adversity.。
How do you approach adversity?。
Are you shocked, devastated。
when you realise not every good thing is happening to me?。
Kohelet here is saying, "Hey, have a different perspective。
"on adversity and prosperity."。
One of my favourite, Allen Iverson is a good player。
that I really liked.。
Steph Curry is one of my absolute favourites.。
And on his shoes with his Under Armour deal,。
he puts Philippines 413.。
"I can do all things through him who strengthens me."。
What a great passage, "I can do all things,。
"all my dreams, my American dream,。
"the house in the suburbs, the wife, the life,。
"the kids, the job, the money.。
"I can do all things through him who strengthens me."。
That is not what that passage is about.。
Because if you just rewind just a few verses,。
he's saying, "Not that I'm speaking of being in need,。
"for I've learned that in whatever situation。
"I am to be content.。
"I know how to be brought low, I know how to abound.。
"In any and every circumstance, I've learned the secret。
"of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need.。
"I can do all things through him who strengthens me."。
That's the context of it.。
That's the perspective of a believer.。
Are we adverse to adversity?。
Are we prone to chasing prosperity?。
Where's your mindset in that?。
Be sober, approach life with a level head.。
And so you, I say, "Okay, I'm coming to the end now.。
"You talked about perspective of life and death.。
"You talked about perspective on adversity and prosperity,。
"but I want some practical advice.。
"What does my day look like today?。
"What does my day look like next week?"。
As you see all these things, Kohelet, preacher,。
gatherer of wisdom, you see all the things that happen,。
you see that it's like this, how do we live?。
What is something practical that we does?。
And he goes through a few verses。
that I will just fly through a little bit,。
but he does give some practical advice.。
In verses five to 10, he talks about this.。
And see if I can fly through a few of them for you.。
Verse five, "It is better for a man to hear the rebuke。
"of the wise than to hear the song of fools."。
He's saying, "Don't be flattered."。
When you live life, if you want some practical advice,。
here it is, don't be flattered.。
Don't surround yourself with people who will agree with you.。
Don't surround yourself with people。
who will only tell you the things that you want to hear.。
Don't be easily flattered, that's number one.。
And then he carries on.。
"Better is the end of a thing than it is the beginning,。
"and the patient spirit is better than the proud spirit."。
Be patient, be patient, don't be impatient, don't be angry.。
Why?。
Because when you're impatient, you are not loving.。
What?。
But 1 Corinthians 13 says, "Love is patient."。
So if you're being impatient, you're actually not。
being loving and you're not trusting in God.。
Gabriel preached on this, Ecclesiastes 3,。
"There is a time for everything."。
You recognize that God is in control of everything。
in all the timing.。
So when you are being impatient, what are you doing?。
You're not trusting in God, right?。
You're not loving Him in the way that you should,。
so don't be impatient.。
And then he carries on.。
Oh, verse 10, "Say not, 'Why were the former days。
"better than these?'。
"For it is not from wisdom that you ask this."。
Don't be proud and discontent.。
Who's ever said that?。
The good old days, this is not like the good old days.。
Hong Kong has changed so much.。
This Hong Kong is nothing like the Hong Kong of the '90s.。
Don't we say that?。
Oh, young people these days, they're idiots.。
(audience laughing)。
Right?。
He says, "Don't say that."。
Why?。
Because you're being prideful.。
Because you're being discontent with what it is.。
Because nothing new is happening under the sun.。
So stop making your comments from your rose-tinted glasses.。
Because here's the problem.。
When you start comparing these days to those days,。
that comparison breeds discontentment.。
That discontentment breeds resentment.。
It's pride.。
Don't do that.。
We all love those elderly women or men。
who are just so gracious and gentle and patient,。
even though they've been through everything.。
They've seen all the financial crises.。
They've been through the wars.。
They've seen everything,。
yet they are just so patient with us.。
You don't hear them saying, "The good old days."。
They don't make it like this anymore.。
Because they have the right perspective.。
And Kohelet's asking us to have that perspective.。
And I'll finish here.。
Because again, if you look at chapter seven,。
please, when you go home and look at it,。
he jumps around and bounces around in lots of places.。
He talks about perspective,。
then he gives a few wisdoms, droplets of wisdom,。
and then he just carries on。
with some more perspective issues.。
And then he finishes this chapter。
with something which is interesting,。
because he's talking about how to be wise.。
And then towards the end of it, from 16 onwards,。
he's actually, "You know what?。
This whole wisdom thing,。
it's not really what it's cracked out to be."。
He says, "Be not overly righteous。
and do not make yourself too wise.。
Why should you destroy yourself?。
Be not overly wicked, neither be a fool.。
Why should you die before your time?"。
And then he's, so he's basically attacking wisdom.。
He's like, you know what he's actually saying here?。
Avoid extremism.。
Don't be too conservative and rigid,。
but don't be immoral and go all the way to this side either.。
Avoid those extremes.。
Going to the States,。
and actually anywhere in the world right now,。
we see how polarized everything is, right?。
Republicans and Democrats and conservatives and liberals。
and all these other colors。
that we're using to identify with a color,。
and everyone's just going to the extremes.。
And Cohen is here saying, "You know what all those are?。
Those are all earthly wisdom at best.。
At best, they are earthly wisdom."。
Come back away from the sidelines and into the middle.。
Jesus, when he assembled his 12 avengers, disciples,。
he's chose them from all along the spectrum,。
and he caught them into the middle.。
And he was the most radical leader ever。
because he realized, he had the perspective。
that these sections here, these divisions here。
are not important here.。
They are not important.。
They are earthly wisdom at best.。
And Cohen here is saying, and he says this in verse 20,。
which I think I do have,。
"Surely there is not a righteous man on earth。
who does good and never sins.。
All this I have tested by wisdom.。
I said I will be wise, but it was far from me."。
He's like, "I've tried.。
I've asked for wisdom.。
I have seen everything.。
And if it's to be believed,。
some people believe this is Solomon,。
the wisest man that ever lived,。
who asked God for wisdom and got it.。
But he said, "I've tried.。
I've got everything, all the wisdom, all the observations,。
and it's still so far from me.。
It has still eluded me.。
You can't get it.。
There is nothing."。
And then he finishes with this really depressing statement。
towards the end, "See, this alone I found,。
that God made man upright,。
but they have sought out many schemes,。
that God made us this way,。
but then we have sought out many schemes.。
We have gone another way."。
So that's why he says in verse 20,。
"Surely there is not a righteous man on earth。
who does good and never sins."。
Why?。
Because we may have wisdom,。
but sometimes we don't act on it.。
Solomon, the most wise man ever.。
Have you seen how he ends his life?。
Have you seen how many,。
have you heard how many concubines he had?。
Everyone knows one wife is more than enough.。
That wasn't very wise.。
Because it's one thing knowing what to do,。
and then it's another thing actually doing it.。
And he says, "You know what?。
I've seen it all.。
You can't even get that kind of wisdom."。
Romans 7, that's what he's doing,。
and that's what we are.。
"For we know what we should do, but we don't,。
and we know what we shouldn't do, but we do.。
Every time I try doing something good,。
sin is right there with me."。
And what does Paul say?。
"What wretched men we are.。
What wretched men we are."。
And that's what Kohelet here is saying.。
He's like, "You may just even give up。
that search for wisdom.。
I've been everywhere.。
I've seen everything.。
I can't find it.。
I don't know where it is."。
We are not capable of attaining that wisdom。
and acting on it.。
There is no one who is upright。
and no one who ever sins.。
And it's interesting for us,。
because as a species, as a race,。
we're trying to improve ourselves over the years,。
whether it's technology, science, medicine,。
all these things, we're trying to improve our lives.。
We're trying to extend our lives.。
And yes, maybe the quantity of our days are extended,。
but the quality, are we really that much wiser?。
Is this world really that much better。
in our pursuit for wisdom, in our pursuit in science,。
in our pursuit in all these things?。
Are we still in the same place?。
In fact, in those pursuits,。
aren't we also bringing the end of the world closer?。
And that's Kohelet's observation.。
BC, and this is where I'll finish.。
He said he'd seen everything.。
He said he'd seen every man。
and there was no one who's upright.。
But who didn't he see?。
Because he lived in a time in the Old Testament。
where he didn't get a chance to see one who was upright,。
who was perfect.。
And as we sang earlier, that King,。
that King from heaven, who came to earth,。
he was upright.。
He did have wisdom and he did live it out.。
Of course, that person is Jesus.。
Kohelet was a wise man.。
He made so many observations。
and they're all good practical advice.。
And unfortunately, he makes these conclusions。
which are not wrong.。
But then if you fast forward, as the story continues,。
he would know, and I'm sure he finally got to meet。
there was one who was wise.。
There was one who was truly perfect, who did never sin.。
1 Corinthians 1, many years later,。
Paul talks about this issue of wisdom.。
He says, "Where is the one who is wise?。
"Where is described?。
"Where is the debater of this age?。
"Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?。
"For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom,。
"but we preach Christ crucified."。
And Jesus himself, Jesus himself is the wisdom of God.。
He is the one who is upright.。
He is the one who is wise.。
So if you want any practical advice on how to live,。
if you want any practical advice on how to be better off,。
look to Jesus.。
Find your answer in Jesus.。
If you are struggling with your perspective。
on life and death, look to Jesus,。
because he came and he defeated death。
so that people like me are no longer afraid of death,。
because I know what it really just is.。
It's just here.。
If you are struggling with your life。
and there are challenges and there is adversity,。
or you are also blessed with prosperity,。
and you're wondering, "What do I do?"。
Look to Jesus.。
Jesus is the only one who is wise.。
Focus on this book.。
This book, all these chapters from before,。
point to him.。
He is the wisdom.。
He is the power of God.。
He is the very thing we need to navigate this world。
that is so gray, that is so up and down,。
that is so messed up.。
Focus on him.。
Jesus is the centre and the answer to everything.。
Find him and the answers will be there.。
Let's pray.。
(footsteps)。
Father, we come before you with broken hearts,。
because we look at this world and we see so much suffering.。
We see so much death.。
We see so much adversity.。
We see so much prosperity that is blinding the eyes。
of those who have it.。
But we come before you and we ask you to once again。
turn our sorrow into joy, our suffering into rejoicing.。
And we wait for you and we take heart。
because we know that you have overcome the world。
despite all its troubles.。
So let us not grow cynical.。
Let us not grow prideful.。
Let us approach life and death,。
adversity and prosperity through your lens.。
Every challenge we face, let us bring back to you.。
Every victory we have, let us boast only in you.。
Every day we live, let us live for you.。
We live today for that day.。
We thank you.。
In your name we pray.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
