(Applause)。
Awesome!。
And so we're starting this road toward Lent,。
and Lent is a time that we just want to calm down,。
we want to slow down.。
As we head towards Easter,。
we want to head towards our Creator,。
and we want to offer more and more time towards Him.。
And so Lent is often the time where we start to think。
to give up something.。
Some people might give up, I don't know, Instagram,。
some people might give up meat,。
as they prepare themselves to understand。
what Christ also went through.。
That He Himself gave up the most precious thing,。
and which was His life.。
And so we're entering into a series of parables,。
and the first parable we're going through today。
is the parable of the Good Samaritan.。
And so you saw in the video there, great video,。
we're doing the one app together,。
and it's going to lead us towards Lent.。
And so as you saw in the video,。
this story started with the Pharisees, right?。
The teachers of the law, and they were questioning Jesus, right?。
They were threatened by Jesus, His authority,。
His miracles, His power.。
They wanted to sort of trap Him.。
And this one person, maybe he was actually curious,。
or maybe he actually wanted to trap Jesus,。
but how can I inherit eternal life?。
And Jesus says, "What do you think?"。
Well, it's great, you know, just dialogue, right?。
He said, "Well, what do you think?"。
Well, you gotta love the Lord, our God,。
with all our heart, mind, soul, strength, everything.。
And then we gotta love our neighbor as ourselves.。
And Jesus asks, well, He asks, "Who is my neighbor?"。
And so Jesus says this story.。
Now, we don't know if it was a made-up story,。
but it was also very common back then。
that people would travel from Jerusalem to Jericho, right?。
And the Israel team, did you guys walk from Israel to Jericho?。
Did you guys do that walk? No? Too far of a walk?。
Okay, too far of a walk.。
Well, as you see, the walk is not very foresty.。
The walk is quite barren, actually, quite barren.。
And as you see in the next slide,。
it's also, the elevation is quite high.。
So Jerusalem is approximately 800 meters higher than Jericho, right?。
Jericho obviously was known for, you know,。
that big walled city, right, that was destroyed.。
And so, as you see in the next slide,。
it's around a seven and a half, seven hour walk。
from Jerusalem down to Jericho.。
Anybody wanna do a seven and a half hour walk?。
Yeah, okay, Hanani wants to do it. Very good.。
It might be quite hot in Jerusalem right now, quite hot.。
Like the Hong Kong summers, maybe not as humid or maybe just as humid.。
So they would know exactly what Jesus was talking about,。
walking from Jerusalem to Jericho, not uncommon.。
The thing about this place was that it was very barren.。
There was mountains and different hills and valleys among the way.。
And so it would be easy for people to hide。
and also to attack you, right?。
And so I don't know if you've watched some of these TV shows。
like Walking Dead or Mad Max or something like that.。
You know the apocalypse, right? They love that.。
There's no like police system in the apocalypse,。
the zombie land, you don't know who's there, right?。
Have you guys watched some of these TV shows?。
So they're taking a stroll through this new territory,。
they don't know, they see somebody there。
and then somebody pops up and robs them.。
Yeah, they're easy targets, they don't know where they're going.。
They don't know who, this new place, they don't know.。
And in the same way, this new place, well that's not new place,。
but this place was known to be possibly places where you could get robbed.。
Alright? It was a desolate place,。
there was nothing really between Jericho and Jerusalem。
and people could run away, rob you and run away。
or they could hide and wait for you to come.。
And so on this particular, in this particular story,。
Jesus is talking about this person that is taking a walk。
from Jerusalem down to Jericho.。
And he is robbed, he is beaten, he is stripped。
and he is left there, left for dead, left for dead.。
And there's three characters that come.。
And so the first character, who's the first character?。
The priest, okay? The priest.。
And so what do we know about priests back then?。
Well, they had to be direct descendants of Aaron.。
Aaron is the brother of Moses and Aaron was the first priest.。
Okay? And so imagine in this society,。
the theocral society,。
society where God is the head,。
the priests were very important.。
They had a lot of power, they had a lot of responsibility,。
they were highly respected.。
And the high priest was the leader among the priests.。
And the high priest, once a year, had the responsibility。
of going into the Holy of Holies to get atonement for Israel.。
The Holy of Holies is the very special place within the temple.。
And if you were not pure and holy before the Lord,。
what would happen to the priest?。
You would drop dead.。
And so the priest, imagine the church, within this church,。
imagine the church is the city or the country.。
Who is sort of leading the country or the church?。
It's the senior pastor.。
And so in the same way, the high priest was like the senior pastor.。
And so let's look at the diagram of the society back then,。
the cultural society back then.。
So the priests were sort of the hierarchy.。
And under the priests were the Levites.。
And under the Levites, as you see, the Levites,。
the priests and the Sadducees were another sect of priests。
that focused on another thing.。
And then on the other side were the Pharisees,。
where they were the lawyers, the laws.。
They knew the laws very well.。
And you look at the next slide.。
So the priests were sort of the most important。
or had the highest position in society.。
And then it was the Levites, and then it was the Jews,。
and the Samaritans were the lowest in the society.。
Okay, so next, the Levites.。
Who were the Levites?。
They had to be born of the tribe of the Levites, yes.。
And so they could study their way。
and possibly gain higher and higher position。
within the Levite system.。
And so, for example, you had the senior pastor or the pastors,。
which are sort of the high priest or the priests, right?。
And the Levites would be sort of the workers within the church.。
So the Levites would help build the church,。
they would help clean the church,。
they would help carry the ark,。
they would help in different rituals within the temple.。
And so this was the role of the Levites.。
They were the second, sort of the second highest position。
within that society.。
And so both of them were very important.。
High, respected people within society.。
And then the third character in this story is who?。
Who is the third character in this story?。
The Samaritan.。
Now, do you remember a couple of weeks or a month ago,。
I talked about a Samaritan woman, right?。
And Jesus had an interaction with the Samaritan woman.。
And in this story, I outlined the different difficulties。
that Jesus faced with interacting with this woman.。
Firstly, Jesus was a man, and not just any man,。
he was a man of respected, he was respected like a teacher.。
The Samaritan was an outcast.。
But what is more important is the relationship。
between Jews and the Samaritans.。
Do you guys remember what the relationship was?。
Were they best buds?。
Were they like Americans and Canadians, best buds?。
No, they weren't, right?。
They were sort of like modern day Israel and Palestine,。
they didn't like each other.。
They were fighting with each other.。
Israel looked, Jews looked down on Samaritans.。
Why did they look down on them?。
Because they were impure.。
They were intermixed, they were interbred。
with their enemy back then, which were the Assyrians.。
And so they looked down on the Samaritans.。
And religiously, the Samaritans also were not allowed。
into the temple, not allowed into Jerusalem,。
because they were considered impure, right? Impure.。
And so this Samaritan in this story was the same.。
He was considered an outcast, he was impure.。
He was a half Gentile and a half Jew.。
And so they were looked down upon by the Jews.。
So there's three people in this story.。
The priest walks by, right?。
The Levite walks by and sees this man,。
half dead, stripped, beaten.。
And then the Samaritan also comes and walks by.。
And so a lot of the times, we look at this story。
and the classic thing is to say, "Who are we in this story?"。
Are we the high priest and the Levite,。
as you see in the next slide?。
Who are we in this story?。
Are we the high priest?。
Are we the Levite in this story?。
Or are we the Samaritan in this story?。
Well, in some occasions, well, honestly,。
we are all three in some situations.。
We are all three in some situations.。
The high priest and the Levite,。
they are known to be of high position,。
highly respected, religious, they're looked up upon.。
But yet in this situation, we see in the next slide,。
they act selfishly.。
They act selfishly. How are they acting selfishly?。
Well, they see this person, half dead, right?。
They don't know if this person is alive.。
And so back then, if you touched a corpse or a dead person,。
what would happen to you?。
You would become unclean, unclean.。
And you would need to go through a period of quarantine, okay?。
14-day quarantine in a hotel.。
No, I'm just joking, right?。
You would have to separate yourself from the temple。
or from serving for a period of time。
because you would become unclean.。
And so they were selfish.。
They were looking out for themselves.。
They didn't want to go through this body.。
They want to jeopardize their own status。
or their ability to serve in the church or in the temple back then.。
And also, they had the idea of self-preservation.。
Self-preservation.。
What were they worried about?。
What would they possibly be worried about?。
Being robbed, right?。
Well, if this person is robbed,。
maybe the robbers are nearby,。
and they're staking out me, the next person who is coming.。
So possibly, they are trying to just walk pie quickly, right?。
Not get hurt, not get robbed, get out of this situation,。
arrive to their next destination safely.。
Self-preservation.。
They didn't want to go down there and help this person。
in fear that somebody might attack them.。
And a lot of the situations, we've also been through that, right?。
We might have walked by the street。
and seen some homeless people who needed help.。
And we're like, "Oh, we don't have time.。
We're going to church.。
We don't have time.。
We're late for our church meeting."。
Or somebody is asking us for food,。
and we just sort of look the other way,。
and pretend we don't see them.。
And unfortunately, we've been there.。
We've been there.。
I used to drive in Toronto,。
and as I drove towards the downtown area,。
there was this one traffic light.。
And this one traffic light, there would always be beggars。
that come out to ask you for money。
when you stopped at that traffic light.。
They would take their cup and be like,。
"Hey, do you have money? Do you have any?。
Do you have money? Knock on the next car.。
Do you have money?"。
And I knew.。
And I knew.。
So I would have granola bars.。
I would have fruit ready to give to them。
because I knew they were coming.。
And so sometimes they would take it.。
Sometimes they were like, "Oh, no. I don't want it."。
And that's their choice.。
So I sort of prepared for these people.。
I knew they were coming, and I wanted to help them,。
and I wanted to give them some food。
and see if they would take it.。
But a lot of times, people might ignore them.。
A lot of times, people might ignore them.。
And I remember this one story.。
One of my friends was sick in the MTR, right?。
And she was so sick to the point。
where she sort of fainted and passed out.。
And what do you think people did in the MTR?。
What do you think people did in the MTR?。
They ran away.。
They ran away.。
They thought she had COVID.。
They had some sort of disease.。
They were separating themselves, right?。
Like she had some sort of magic force field around her.。
And then eventually what happened was。
the MTR people came and helped her。
and got her to the hospital and helped her.。
But this is sort of like what was happening here。
with the Levites and the high priest or the priest.。
They saw this person.。
They didn't know what this person had.。
Maybe they had COVID.。
No, they didn't have COVID back then.。
And they wanted to run away.。
They were self-preservation.。
They were focused on self-preservation,。
and they were focused on themselves.。
They didn't want their status。
or their reputation to be ruined, right?。
And so next, what happened?。
There was a Samaritan that came by.。
And the Samaritan wasn't focused on himself.。
This person wasn't focused on his own selfishness。
and self-preservation,。
but he was focused on being selfless.。
He saw this person and helped him,。
went to him, bandaged him up,。
brought him onto the donkey,。
and took him to a place of sanctuary, of recovery.。
And at times, we are also like this Samaritan person, right?。
We've gone through some times。
where we've went to the Mongkok area。
to hand out sandwiches,。
hand out food boxes to the poor, to the needy,。
people that are living in those walkways。
or those tunnelways in Hong Kong.。
And we've gone out, we've lended our hand,。
we've prayed for these people.。
We've gone out weekly to hand out sandwiches to these people.。
And so the classic understanding of this parable is,。
who are we?。
Are we the priest? Are we the Levite?。
Or are we the Samaritan that goes out mercifully。
to help those in need,。
to help our neighbor?。
Who is our neighbor?。
Our neighbor is the person that is in need, right?。
Helping those that we see,。
the people around us that are in need.。
There's another sort of side to this story.。
There's another side to this story.。
And it's not looking at who are we。
as the priest, as the Levite, as the Samaritan.。
But it's to understand that in fact,。
we are the victim.。
We are the victim in this story.。
Have you thought about it?。
That you are the one that is beaten,。
robbed, stripped in this story.。
You are the one that is left half dead.。
Can you imagine? You are that person.。
And we are in need of a good Samaritan.。
We are in need of a good Samaritan.。
Who has robbed us?。
Who has beaten us?。
Who has stripped us?。
Who has stripped us?。
Who has left us helpless?。
Ultimately, it is a three-letter word.。
It starts with an S.。
Sin.。
Sin has left us beaten, broken, stripped, and helpless.。
A month ago, we went through the testings of Jesus, right?。
How He went through all the testings of this world.。
The temptations of this world.。
The temptation of the flesh, our hedonism.。
The temptation of our eyes, materialism.。
We see it and we want it.。
The temptation of our pride, egoism.。
And yet, Jesus was that person。
that went through all these temptations,。
and yet, He was without sin.。
He held that weight.。
That weight of temptation.。
And yet, He did not drop that power bar.。
He did not.。
He was without sin.。
And we went through that ultimately,。
the testing of our flesh is lust,。
gluttony, sloth, pride.。
Lust leaves us sexually impure, right?。
We have unrestrained sexual craving,。
and that leaves us impure in the eyes of God.。
Gluttony leaves us physically broken。
because our physical body is not working。
the way that God has designed it.。
We are becoming overweight.。
We are stuffing ourselves with things,。
overindulging ourselves.。
Sloth is in the same, but in the opposite direction.。
We are becoming lazy and lack of effort.。
This leaves us broken.。
It could leave us financially broken。
because we become lazy and raft.。
It could lead to things that we do out of raft.。
Broken relationships.。
Hurting ourselves even.。
This leaves us to brokenness.。
Greed leaves us to desire things excessively.。
And ultimately, that leaves us broken, empty.。
We search for money, money, money.。
We search for materialism, materialism.。
And ultimately, these things leave us empty.。
And some of you have been through it.。
You've gone to the highest peak financially.。
And at the end of it, money comes, money goes.。
You've gone through all the money,。
all the materialism in the world,。
all the bags, all the watches,。
all the shoes in the world.。
But at the end of it, it's emptiness.。
It's emptiness.。
And there's envy, which leaves us broken。
in our relationship with others。
because we're jealous or we envy what other people have.。
And it leaves ourselves broken.。
And finally, there's pride.。
Pride leaves us ultimately broken。
because we believe we are right.。
And we believe we are right over God.。
We are right over God.。
And so sin beats us, strips us,。
leaves us helpless, half dead.。
We are physically broken, materially broke.。
Mentally, we are broken, depressed.。
And we have broken relationships.。
We are the victim in this story.。
We are the victim in this story.。
I had a friend.。
And you know how most gentlemen are, right?。
They don't talk about their issues.。
You guys like that?。
Don't talk about their issues, right?。
You put up, "I'm a 'Tai Lam Yin'," right?。
"Tai Lam Yin."。
It's hard for them to talk about issues.。
And so when he called me,。
and I was like, "Hey, I really need to talk."。
I was like, "Oh, what's up?"。
Right?。
And he was emotionally and spiritually very low。
because he was reading scripture。
and God convicted him of all the sin。
that he had been going through.。
He was in a past church,。
and he didn't stay at that church。
because there were so many relationships。
that he had conflict with.。
And instead of solving those conflicts,。
he just wanted to escape.。
He escaped, and that left broken relationships.。
And he recalled all the bad things he said。
to his sister and to his family。
and the hurtful things that he said.。
And he was like, "I'm so broken.。
"Spiritually, I'm broken.。
"These relationships are broken,。
"and I have not faced any of the issues。
"that I've gone through."。
And he's like, "I don't know where I'm heading。
"in my future, and all I'm doing。
"is just going after my flesh。
"that my human wants,。
"and I'm not placing God first,。
"and I'm feeling broken inside."。
He's feeling broken,。
and he was like this man。
that was beaten, stripped,。
left for dead, robbed.。
He was like this person.。
I recall another friend。
that I spent time with this week,。
and he was telling me about his family.。
He married a girl,。
and now they have a son.。
But this woman goes through sort of bipolar。
and goes through different mental illnesses,。
and she has fits of rage。
where this relationship has become abusive.。
She's very abusive,。
calling him names every day。
and taking it out on their son,。
taking it out on him.。
And sin, the brokenness of this world。
has caused brokenness in this family.。
And now he doesn't know what to do,。
but he thinks the only thing to do。
is separation。
because of the abuse in this family。
of his wife onto him。
and calling him names。
and taking it out on his son.。
There's brokenness in this family.。
It's left him robbed, beaten, broken,。
not knowing what to do.。
And he's lost faith in God.。
He's like, "Johnny, I don't believe in prayer anymore.。
"I don't believe in prayer anymore.。
"I'm so broken.。
"I've been in this relationship, marriage,。
"for five years,。
"and I've been trying to fix it.。
"I've been praying to God,。
"and I'm just so desperate.。
"I don't know what to do anymore."。
Broken, beaten, physically broke,。
materially broke, mentally broken,。
broken relationship.。
My first friend needs a good Samaritan.。
My friend who's in this marriage。
needs a good Samaritan.。
We need a good Samaritan.。
And Jesus is that ultimate good Samaritan.。
Let's read this passage together one more time together.。
Can you read for me?。
One, two, three.。
"But a Samaritan, as he traveled,。
"came where the man was,。
"and when he saw him, he took pity on him.。
"He went to him and bandaged his wounds,。
"pouring on oil and wine.。
"Then he put the man on his own donkey,。
"brought him into an inn,。
"and took care of him.。
"The next day, he took out two denarii。
"and gave them to the innkeeper.。
"'Look after him,' he said,。
"'and when I return, I will reimburse you。
"'any extra expense that you may have.'"。
The first thing that this Samaritan person did。
was he did what?。
He came to where the man was,。
and he saw him.。
He saw him.。
Many times, we're walking on the street。
and there's a beggar, there's somebody really dirty,。
and we don't even want to look at that person.。
The priest and the Levite,。
they didn't even want to look at this person,。
whether he was alive or dead.。
They didn't know.。
They just wanted to go along the way.。
But this Samaritan, good Samaritan,。
looked upon that person.。
There is acceptance.。
There is love.。
There's sort of acknowledgement。
that this is an actual person.。
And in the same way,。
as we are beaten, broken, robbed because of sin,。
who looks at us?。
Who looks at us?。
Jesus is looking at you.。
Jesus is looking at you.。
In your state, in your brokenness,。
He sees you.。
He sees you and He's coming towards you.。
Jesus is the good Samaritan,。
accepting us, acknowledging our situation.。
The next thing the Samaritan did。
was He took pity on this person.。
And Jesus also knows our situation。
and He has compassion upon us.。
Whatever we are going through,。
the sin that we're struggling through,。
Jesus understands.。
He has compassion upon you.。
He has compassion amongst us.。
What's the next thing the good Samaritan did?。
What did he do?。
He bandaged up that person.。
Jesus is a good Samaritan。
that is also looking to heal us.。
Sin has left us wounded。
and Jesus has come, ultimately,。
paid the ultimate price for us。
to be healed of our wounds.。
He used oil.。
He used oil and wine.。
Oil signifying cleansing,。
the coming of the Holy Spirit.。
Oil, right?。
Anointing of the Holy Spirit.。
Oil, healing oil.。
The Holy Spirit also guides us,。
heals us, leads us.。
Wine signifying cleansing.。
The good Samaritan used wine。
to cleanse the wounds.。
The alcohol within it.。
Jesus comes with forgiveness.。
The wine represents His blood。
shed for us on the cross.。
And there is forgiveness.。
The wine represents the forgiveness of sins。
and He paid two denarii.。
Two denarii for the innkeeper.。
Jesus leads us, ultimately,。
to sanctuary,。
to heaven,。
to a better place,。
a place where we one day。
be fully healed.。
And what did He say?。
The good Samaritan, what did He say?。
He will return.。
He will return.。
And Jesus also says He will return.。
There is hope.。
Jesus will one day come back.。
Jesus will fully heal us, restore us.。
There is hope.。
There is hope.。
There's hope for my friend。
who is going through all。
these spiritual, physical, mental brokenness.。
There is hope for my friend。
who is in this marriage,。
in this family, and doesn't know what to do.。
There is hope.。
There is healing.。
Jesus has not given up on them.。
Jesus is with them.。
Jesus sees their need.。
Jesus sees their moments of need,。
their desperation, their brokenness.。
And Jesus is there waiting for them,。
wanting to heal them, forgive them,。
give them the Holy Spirit,。
and give them hope.。
Do we need a Savior today?。
Do you need a Savior today?。
As the band comes up,。
I just want us to have a moment。
of reflection here.。
Jesus is the Good Samaritan,。
the ultimate Samaritan,。
Good Samaritan,。
who has come to save us.。
He knows your need.。
He knows what you're going through.。
Maybe tonight you come with a heavy heart.。
You're dealing with issues.。
You're dealing with problems in your life.。
Maybe there are some things that you've done。
and you can't forgive yourself.。
But Jesus sees you.。
Jesus is coming towards you,。
and He wants to heal and forgive you.。
Maybe you're coming with other issues,。
issues with family, with work,。
whatever it might be,。
Jesus understands,。
and He wants to be your Savior.。
He wants to be your Savior.。
Is there anybody here tonight。
that is in need of a Savior?。
Maybe you've come here for the first time。
or the hundredth time,。
and you haven't asked Jesus。
to be your Lord and Savior.。
Would you be willing to surrender yourself,。
surrender your brokenness,。
surrender your sin,。
surrender your issues,。
surrender your problems to Him tonight?。
He is your Good Samaritan.。
He comes with acceptance,。
compassion, healing,。
forgiveness, and hope.。
Is there anybody here。
that's in need of a Savior?。
I'm going to say a prayer,。
and I want all of us to pray this prayer,。
to ask Jesus to be our Savior.。
Repeat after me.。
Dear Jesus,。
I admit that I am broken.。
I'm broken and robbed by sin.。
I need a Savior.。
I thank you that you are the Good Samaritan,。
that you died on the cross for my sins,。
and on the third day,。
you rose again to prove。
that you are conquer, victorious, victorious。
over sin and death.。
I now invite you。
to be my Lord and my Savior,。
to give me healing and hope.。
In Jesus' name I pray, amen.。
