(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(soft music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
(upbeat music)。
- Oh, even watching that bumper just totally fires me up.。
How are you today?。
KFC, what an absolute privilege and honor。
to be standing here on a stage in Kansas City。
in the United States and 12,500 plus kilometers away you are。
and we are together as one.。
I just think that is phenomenal.。
My name is Dan Diebel and seriously,。
I'm just pumped to be with you today。
and to be united around this one singular passion。
that you have and that we have.。
Basketball.。
Yeah, I've done a little research on you。
and I know that's one of your passions.。
We're going crazy right now.。
This is a series of time for us called March Madness。
where everyone is just watching basketball all day long。
and I've got this friend, his name is Ryan Hoover.。
We've been friends for over a decade now。
and Ryan was a standout basketball player。
at one of our premier universities here called Notre Dame。
and then he went on and played for 13 years。
in mostly in Italy and as he and I have been kind of,。
you know, talking throughout the years,。
he told me this story once.。
He said this, he said, "What was really odd。
"and sometimes challenging playing in Italy,。
"one is nobody quite knew how to pronounce his name."。
They didn't quite have a frame of reference for Ryan.。
The only frame of reference they had。
was the movie "Saving Private Ryan"。
which was translated in Italian as "Il Soldato."。
So that's what they called him.。
They called him Il Soldato for his kind of sweet J。
and his fiery tenacious spirit。
and that's what we've started to call them too, Il Soldato.。
But here's what he said.。
He said, "Playing in Italy, particularly in this one league。
"in this one town, the media after every single game。
"would score him on their own scorecard.。
"They would give him a grade on various kind of things。
"and then they'd publish it in the paper the next day."。
And here, I want you to just see,。
here's an actual scorecard for the team。
that he was playing on and if you can see at the very bottom。
is my friend Il Soldato, Ryan Hoover.。
If you look at the top, top right-hand corner,。
the guy there, Buzzi Thornton, he got a score of 41.。
That's pretty high.。
And my friend Ryan Hoover, Il Soldato, got only a four.。
Now what the media didn't know。
was that he had a defensive assignment that night.。
He was supposed to shut down their top scorer。
but they didn't know that.。
They're just scoring against their scorecard,。
giving him a four when actually in the locker room,。
the coach is probably giving him。
something higher than Buzzi.。
Do you see the challenge of what's going on here?。
Number one, as Ryan told me, he goes,。
"Look, like the media really had never played。
"much basketball, at least professionally."。
So that's a problem, right?。
To give a scorecard as if you're the judge and jury。
when you'd never actually played.。
But secondly, the media wasn't in the locker room。
to know what the assignments were,。
to know what the game plan was,。
to know what the scorecard of the coach was.。
So just imagine the tension。
that that would create among the team.。
Am I going to play for myself。
to get the media scorecard grade,。
which is gonna be published。
to receive the public kind of affection and approval?。
Or am I gonna seek to please my coach and his scorecard?。
And am I gonna be a team player。
and go after what is really winning?。
Does that sound familiar to you?。
Do you feel actually as a human being,。
and perhaps as, or most particularly as a Jesus follower,。
the tension of asking this question,。
what scorecard am I really using in my life?。
'Cause the fact of the matter is,。
you and I, at birth, we are handed a scorecard in life.。
And we're rated by the world,。
we're rated on where you live,。
what kind of job you have,。
the kind of possessions you own,。
the size of the diamond on your finger,。
the things that you have the freedom to do.。
Basically, no matter what continent you're on,。
every culture has kind of different status symbols,。
different kind of rating systems,。
but it always seems to come down to possessions,。
to maybe your investments portfolio,。
it might come down to your resources, your connections,。
and we are scored every single day.。
And if we're honest about it,。
it can drive us crazy inside.。
The constant comparing, the wondering if I'm failing,。
the wondering if I'm measuring up,。
am I getting far enough in life?。
I mean, it can just wreak havoc in your mind。
if we rate ourselves according to the scorecard of the world。
and here's what I love.。
What I love about being a Jesus follower,。
and every time I open the scriptures。
and every time I listen to the Holy Spirit,。
you know what I hear?。
I hear our Father in Heaven saying,。
I keep a different score.。
I keep a different score.。
So we're in this series called the One Campaign,。
sharing in it together, and what we're really doing。
is we're looking at the life of Jesus。
through the Gospel of Mark,。
and we're looking at all these different moments。
and encounters where he just flips everything upside down.。
He basically says to his disciples over and over,。
give me your scorecard, come here, give it to me, all right.。
And he just rips it to shreds and says,。
now, let me give you the new game plan.。
Let me give you your new assignment.。
Let me give you your new scorecard.。
So here's what I wanna do.。
I want us to kind of go through the section of Mark。
that we're all in together,。
and I want us just to look at how Jesus。
begins to give a new scorecard to his disciples.。
And it takes a little time for them。
to kind of like figure it out,。
but we're gonna look at seven different moments,。
and we're gonna actually compare and contrast。
via whiteboard here the scorecard of the world。
with the scorecard of Jesus.。
And it starts in Mark chapter nine,。
so go ahead, grab your Bibles if you have 'em.。
Otherwise, we'll have 'em here right on the screen for you.。
But right, in Mark chapter nine, here's what's going on.。
The disciples are having an argument, all right?。
And they're jockeying for power.。
This is probably a succession moment.。
Jesus just described that he's not gonna be around forever,。
and then it's all of a sudden, hmm,。
well, who will be in charge then?。
And so here we come in verse 33, chapter nine.。
They came to Capernaum.。
When he was in the house, he asked them,。
what were you arguing about on the road?。
But they kept quiet.。
I love this, because on the way,。
they had argued about who was the greatest.。
Sitting down, which is a sign of,。
this is the coach coming out onto the court,。
bringing his stool, and everyone huddles up,。
huddle up, all right?。
Sitting down, Jesus called the 12 and said this.。
Anyone who wants to be first must be the very last。
and the servant of all.。
We're building the scorecard, right?。
The scorecard, the scorecard of the world, right?。
And by the way, we love the world.。
God loves the world, but it's just we contrast。
the systems, the ethos, the values of the world。
compared to the scorecard of Jesus.。
What do we say?。
Well, we see that according to the ways of the world,。
winning comes by being first.。
And Jesus goes, uh-uh, uh-uh.。
Winning comes through being last.。
Now, I don't know about you in Hong Kong,。
but I can tell you for us in America, this is really hard.。
This grates against our individualistic, right,。
just go for it spirit.。
What's Jesus saying here?。
He's going, this is the path of self-absorption.。
Now I'm calling you to not be about yourselves,。
but to give yourself away.。
That's what he's saying.。
Scorecard item number one, winning comes,。
Jesus says, through being last.。
Let's look at another moment.。
Let's just move to verse 38.。
Now, John and the other disciples,。
they see something going down and they don't like it.。
They go to Jesus, teacher, we saw someone。
driving out demons in your name.。
And we told them to stop because, and get this,。
he was not one of us.。
Oh man, there are places in our life and in our world。
to have really strong convictions,。
to say, here's just because of,。
I'm trying to be grounded in the scriptures,。
and I go, I can't join you in this,。
but there's also this danger of us versus them, right?。
And that's what's going on.。
And so what does Jesus do?。
He says, don't stop 'em, right?。
And then he goes on, verse 40,。
for whoever is not against us is for us.。
I can just guarantee, this is not what the disciples,。
they've just been handed this whole scorecard,。
all their life, right?。
Which says, you win by competition.。
And I might add division, right?。
Dividing us versus them.。
And Jesus is like, no, actually,。
if they're not against you, they're for you.。
You win by commonality, commonality, right?。
Let's meet people where they are.。
And where they're doing good stuff,。
let's not constantly just divide and sequester,。
let's join 'em.。
Where the king was breaking in, let's join 'em.。
It's beautiful.。
Jesus is just already ripping。
their old scorecard to shreds.。
Why?。
Because he says, I keep a different score than you,。
and the ways of the world.。
Let's jump to a third movement.。
This gets really dicey, because at that time,。
even still like today, there's all these cultural issues,。
and this one is about divorce.。
And there was a big kind of debate。
between two different rabbinical lines of thought.。
One is that it was pretty hard to divorce your wife,。
and the other is, it's really easy to divorce your wife.。
Why?。
Because if you go back, Moses gave us。
this certificate of dismissal,。
and so we should be able to divorce our wives。
for about anything.。
So they bring this question to Jesus.。
And I love what he does.。
He does this, I mean, he just does this。
like beautiful coach move.。
He doesn't really answer their question.。
He goes beyond their question。
to the origin of design and creation.。
Look with me, verse six, chapter 10.。
But at the beginning of creation,。
God made them male and female,。
and he goes on to just ground marriage。
in God's deep heart.。
And so there's this cultural scorecard, right,。
that says, well, marriage can end in dismissal.。
And Jesus flips it all around and says,。
marriage begins in dignity.。
And I'm just gonna share, I'm having cognitive dissonance。
whether I've, oh, dismiss, dismissal,。
that dismal, dismiss, ah, I know what I did wrong.。
Dismiss, oh, and I still don't know。
if I'm spelling that right.。
Having major issues right now in my brain.。
Oh, but for the grace of God, go I.。
Do you see what Jesus is doing here, though?。
He is absolutely ripping up the scorecard,。
saying, I keep a different score, let's keep going.。
People were bringing little children to Jesus。
for him to place his hands on, right?。
But the disciples rebuked them.。
They're like, man, kids, until they can be。
like working on the farm or working in the kitchen,。
until they can be productive,。
they really have no sense of value to us,。
so don't hassle the rabbi with the kids.。
And Jesus rebukes them, and he says,。
let the little children come to me,。
and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God。
belongs to such as these.。
What is Jesus saying?。
He says, I keep a different score.。
How does status and access come?。
Well, the world would say it comes through hierarchy, right?。
What does Jesus say?。
Status and access to all these important things。
comes through humility, humility.。
Let's keep going, let's keep going.。
The next one, this rich, this guy who's got tons of doubt,。
he comes up to Jesus, but you can tell。
he's got rattle in his soul.。
He's got all these things,。
but something feels really unsettled for him,。
and he's hoping to assuage that vacuous thing。
that he's feeling in his spirit.。
So he comes to Jesus very respectfully,。
falls to his knees, and says,。
what must I do to inherit eternal life?。
And they have this interesting conversation。
about, well, have you fulfilled the 10 commandments?。
He said, yes, since birth, since I was a little kid,。
I've done all these things,。
and that's when Jesus looks at him, and I love this,。
and loved him, one thing you lack, he said.。
Go sell everything you have and give to the poor.。
He goes on to say, and you will have treasure in heaven.。
Jesus is gonna look, I keep a different score.。
You could have all the riches in the world。
and be impoverished, or you can empty yourself。
on behalf of the poor and be rich.。
And what is he saying in this moment?。
The goal, according to the world, is prosperity.。
But the goal, according to the kingdom of God。
and the heart of the Father, is generosity.。
Let's keep moving.。
This is just so good.。
I mean, the contrast is just so thick.。
The sixth movement.。
Now, there's another argument by the disciples.。
Surprise, surprise.。
We all have, we can be really,。
what we say here in America, dense sometimes.。
It takes us a while to really reorient ourselves.。
So there's another argument, right?。
There's two brothers, James and John.。
They wanna sit at the right hand and the left hand of Jesus.。
When he enters into their kingdom, they pull him aside.。
They have this private conversation。
in a different gospel.。
They actually invoke their mom to do their bidding.。
It's really a mess.。
And the other 10 hear about it.。
And they get really upset, indignant, the scriptures say.。
And that's when Jesus calls another timeout,。
timeout, timeout, grabs a stool, brings it on the court.。
Everyone has to huddle up here.。
And then he says, "You know that those who are regarded。
"as rulers of the Gentiles, lord it over them.。
"And their high officials exercise authority over them.。
"Not so with you.。
"Instead, whoever wants to become great among you。
"must be your servant.。
"And whoever wants to be first must be slave of all.。
"For even the Son of Man did not come to be served,。
"but to serve and to give his life as ransom for many."。
And Jesus says, look, we lead, not positionally.。
With our titles and our thrones and our corner offices,。
we lead sacrificially, he says.。
We give ourselves away.。
The last moment we might be familiar with。
because we saw it in the opening sermon。
of this entire series.。
They're entering into Jericho.。
There's a loud buzz because Jesus is there.。
There's a blind man who's the son of Timaeus.。
His name is Bartimaeus.。
And he's sitting by the road and he hears the buzz。
and he starts crying out 'cause he hears that it's because。
of this rabbi named Jesus who has the power to heal.。
And he just starts crying out,。
Son of David, have mercy on me.。
Son of David, have mercy on me.。
And everyone starts telling him,。
be quiet, be quiet, be quiet.。
We would say here in America, shut up, shut up, shut up.。
And they're pushing him away.。
And Jesus says, bring him to me.。
And then the disciples go to him and say this powerful,。
three little words, it's just so beautiful.。
It's actually framed our entire one campaign series together.。
Cheer up, on your feet, he's calling you.。
And this man gets healed.。
Jesus says, what do you want me to do for you?。
He says, I wanna receive sight.。
And he's healed in that moment.。
But think about that moment.。
This man is so desperate.。
He's off to the side.。
He's probably just inhaling the dust that's being kicked up。
from all the feet that are just trampling。
to jockey themselves to Jesus by access, by power,。
by all these things.。
And he's just crying out and he refuses to stop.。
And Jesus, just like he saw the rich young ruler,。
he hears this man.。
And what do we learn about this?。
In this very moment, we learn that in the world scorecard,。
some people are expendable.。
But in the scorecard of Jesus,。
here's a word we've been using a lot.。
Everyone is essential.。
Born with the image of God, made with the dignity of God.。
Now I want you just to look for a moment at this list.。
The world says it's gotta be about you.。
You gotta be on top.。
It's about dividing and conquering through competition.。
It's about dismissing others in marriage。
or any other relationship.。
It's about hierarchy.。
Where are you in the pecking order。
and on the rungs of the ladder?。
It's about prosperity, right?。
Just gain, gain more, right?。
As if you think it's gonna fill yourself up.。
It's about positional power。
and it's about seeing other people。
through a value rubric of some are more valuable。
all the way to others are expendable.。
This is the scorecard that you and I,。
that we're handed every single day in our lives.。
And we have a decision to make.。
Are we gonna live by that scorecard?。
And I bet if you thought through your work life,。
if you thought through your government system,。
like we do here,。
basically pick your sector, pick your industry,。
pick your habitat, pick even in your home.。
And frankly, it's very sad,。
but we can even see this played out in the church, can't we?。
And where does this lead?。
Where's the scorecard lead?。
On a playground, it leads to bullying.。
In a boardroom, politicking, power plays.。
Geopolitically, war.。
Socially, injustice.。
If left to its own devices, to its furthest extreme,。
genocide.。
Because the scorecard is based on power.。
Richard Foster, the great Quaker writer in his book。
that was at least once titled Money, Sex, and Power。
writes this about power.。
He says this.。
"Power can destroy or it can create.。
"The power that destroys demands ascendancy,。
"it demands total control.。
"It destroys relationships, it destroys trust,。
"it destroys dialogue, it destroys integrity.。
"And this is true whether you look through the macrocosm。
"of human history or the microcosm。
"of our own personal histories of you and me,。
"and even what happens in a marriage,。
"and even what happens between siblings,。
"and even what happens in a home or in a heart."。
What scorecard are you using for your life?。
Because I look at the scorecard of Jesus,。
and would you look with me here?。
It's like, would you like to live in a world。
where everyone says, how can I give myself away。
to the service of others today?。
Would you like to live in a world where everyone says,。
hey, if they're not against you, then let 'em be for you.。
Like, let's seek out commonality with conviction.。
Would you like to live in a world where everyone。
was just seen as a baseline of dignity,。
and if every marriage stayed that way and lived that way?。
Would you love to live in a world。
where in the corporate space, there was a sense of humility。
versus what we describe as the smartest guys in the room?。
Would you like to live in a world。
where people weren't just trying。
to accumulate wealth for themselves,。
but they felt this sense of beautiful responsibility。
to give what they have away to others, a generous world?。
Would you like to live in a world。
where leaders lead sacrificially,。
and they don't lord it over you?。
They go, how do I serve, how do I give myself away?。
Would you like to live in a world。
where everyone is essential?。
I do, and that's the invitation of Jesus for you and for me.。
When he rips up your old scorecard, he says,。
here, take this, and as we live this way,。
what happens as the spirit of God。
who forms and shapes this in you and me,。
well, what happens?。
Well, there's more love, the Bible says.。
There's more joy, there's more peace.。
There's greater patience, there's self-control,。
there's gentleness, forbearance.。
All the beautiful things that exist in heaven。
all the time today break into your life and my life,。
and if we look over,。
history, human history, particularly the last 2,000 years,。
and say, who's led this way?。
Who's led this way?。
The early church led this way.。
They'd go through trash heaps to find babies。
that had been abandoned,。
and they'd bring them, nurse them back to life,。
and take them in as their own.。
They were advocates for the outcasts,。
for the disenfranchised, the women, poor.。
They broke through hierarchy and status,。
hierarchy and status and layers to care.。
More modern examples as we go throughout history,。
Father Damien, who literally went to the lepers。
and brought the love of Jesus.。
Hudson Taylor, who brought the love of Christ to Asia.。
Jackie Pollinger, who with $10 in her pocket。
arrived in the walled city in Hong Kong。
to care for opium addicts.。
Martin Luther King, who all the pressure。
was to just like fight, fight, fight,。
and he's like, no, nonviolence,。
and bring the love of Jesus.。
Nelson Mandela, after years and years of apartheid,。
when everyone's crying for revenge,。
says, no, we're gonna seek reconciliation.。
William Wilberforce leveraged his status。
and his power to see the abolishment of slavery.。
Mother Teresa in the slums of Calcutta,。
saying, Jesus, how can I bring your scorecard。
to the expendable, to those who have been dismissed?。
Dave, a business partner here in Kansas City,。
a business friend of mine, who has a lot of money,。
a lot of status, and a lot of employees,。
and he says to them, let me be your assistant.。
What do you need?。
I wanna serve you.。
April, who came alongside quietly,。
without telling anyone, she's a mom,。
she lives in a very nice part of town here in Kansas City,。
but there was a man in our church named Steve。
who's confined to a wheelchair,。
can barely even lift himself up with his arms,。
can barely even shower, take care of himself,。
and lives alone.。
And so every other week, she just quietly goes across town。
to his apartment, cleans it, cooks me a meal,。
cooks meals, helps him with the things that he needs.。
See, that's winning.。
That's living by a different scorecard.。
I just wanna ask you, I just wanna say this.。
What from this scorecard of the world。
do you just need to see eradicated from your life?。
And I'll share with you for me right now.。
I have the privilege of being。
one of the teaching pastors here,。
but I also have started a business in the last year.。
And I'm being challenged right here.。
I'm being challenged, but okay,。
what scorecard am I gonna live by?。
What is the challenge for you?。
And conversely, what do you want to experience more of。
from the scorecard of Jesus?。
And we would just simply say, Holy Spirit,。
whatever that is, Holy Spirit,。
would you gift me with more of your humility?。
Would you gift me with more of the ability。
to see commonality?。
Jesus, would you gift me with a generous spirit。
by your spirit?。
Whatever that is, we just simply ask him for it.。
And maybe, maybe you're going,。
maybe you're going, aren't we skipping a step?。
Maybe you thought that this was the only scorecard。
available to you in your life.。
You didn't even know this whole other world。
and opportunity exists.。
You didn't know that Jesus actually wants to be your coach.。
And if that's the case,。
and if when we describe this kind of world,。
and then I asked you, would you like to live in that world?。
Would you like to experience those things?。
Would you like to have this true in your home,。
in your marriage, at your place of work?。
And if something rose up in you,。
then I would just tell you this,。
it's time to change teams.。
It's time to have a new coach.。
His name is Jesus.。
And he looks at you and he goes, you're not a four.。
Like on every single mark, he goes, because of me,。
my life, my death, my resurrection, you're a 10.。
You're a 10.。
That's my scorecard for you.。
I've already pre-scored you at the cross.。
And man, there's so much beauty there.。
So much freedom there.。
And actually, I want you to hear from my friend Ryan Hoover,。
who also lives here in Kansas City.。
We get to hang out in our small group.。
We call it an A2 community.。
We meet every Wednesday morning for prayer together.。
And graciously, he's decided to join me.。
So I wanna bring out Il Soldato.。
So KFCI, would you please just give him a warm welcome?。
Well, Ryan Hoover, thank you so much。
for joining us here today.。
- Yeah, Dave.。
- Yeah.。
Well, so man, there's so much we could talk about,。
but what I haven't yet shared。
is that right before you switched your scorecard,。
you went to Hong Kong to play in an All-Star game.。
And just for fun,。
what was the level of talent out there in Hong Kong?。
- Well, I don't really remember much。
about what led up to that time,。
but I think in my mind,。
I thought America was the best in basketball,。
which I think we are,。
but I was really surprised by the level of talent。
and the competition that we faced when we got to Hong Kong.。
- So you kind of just lackadaisically entered the court。
and all of a sudden you're like,。
"Oh, I better bring my A game."。
- Yeah, exactly.。
- Well, what's also interesting to me about that time,。
this is 1997, it's the summer of 1997,。
and it was just months before。
you ripped up your old scorecard。
and you took the scorecard of Jesus.。
You gave your life to Jesus.。
Describe that moment,。
and maybe even what was leading up to that for you?。
Like the time of living by this old world scorecard,。
what was that like?。
- Yeah, I think just growing up,。
I had the dream and I had goals that I was going after。
in terms of getting a college scholarship。
and playing basketball.。
It was based around that,。
and it was about just being the best at what I was,。
and I was obsessed with being the best shooter in the world,。
and every day I approached it like that,。
but it was about me,。
and it was about me reaching my goals,。
and that's really all I cared about.。
I didn't really have an awareness of what else was there,。
so I kind of just went in with every opportunity。
just going after it like that.。
- And for all of us in our lives,。
whether it's basketball or business。
or whatever our pursuits,。
at some point we kind of come to,。
we get in touch with that emptiness maybe,。
or we come up against to the limit of ourselves,。
and we don't quite have the answers。
that we thought that we did,。
and we go, "Is there something more?。
"Am I missing something?"。
Did that happen for you?。
- Yeah, interestingly enough,。
that's how God grew me and drew me to himself,。
was through the game of basketball.。
So what had become my God and my idol,。
he used it to draw me to himself,。
and then I experienced him in a real way,。
and his authority and his availability。
became an experience for me,。
not that I heard stories about other people。
or that I read in the book or the Bible。
that I was taught, but it became real to me,。
and it was interesting that it was。
through the game of basketball,。
and it was around the time that I was in Hong Kong.。
- Well, and you grew up in a church,。
so you knew Bible stories and things like that,。
but you were invited into something more,。
and can you describe that?。
I know you were with a group called Athletes in Action,。
which was kind of a professional ministry。
of professional basketball players who loved Jesus,。
and it was actually, you said yes,。
but not even quite knowing what you were signing up for。
at the time, right?。
- Yeah, I just wanted to play basketball.。
It was another opportunity for me。
to play against good competition and hone my skills.。
So yeah, it was just interesting how God used。
that opportunity with Athletes in Action.。
I went to Shanghai a couple months later。
after my experience in Hong Kong,。
so I got another Asian experience,。
and it was another one that kind of helped me to grow,。
not only on the court, but off the court,。
and then I joined a tour with Athletes in Action。
back in the US where we played the college teams,。
and that was when I came to the Lord,。
and I was with a group that helped me process。
what I was going through as I was still going after my goals.。
I was still going after my dreams,。
but now in a new way with a new scorecard.。
- Yeah, I love it, 'cause you were in between contracts.。
Sure, I'll go play, and if we talk about Jesus。
with folks during halftime, that's fine, right?。
But then it was the relationships of the guys on this team。
that just started asking you questions。
you couldn't quite answer, right?。
- Yeah, and I just, I had to ask myself the hard questions,。
and then finally I just went to the Lord,。
and I said, "What's going on?"。
And I wrote a letter and everything,。
and I experienced Him in a real way,。
and my path took a whole new route after that,。
and as you talk about the scorecard, it was the same thing.。
A lot of these things on this side started popping up,。
and I became aware of my selfishness and my pride。
and my, a little bit of arrogance, you know,。
that started to shift, and it's still shifting.。
- Yes. - Still in my life today.。
You know, as I transitioned out of basketball。
into the business world, I still deal with these things,。
you know, in terms of that, and God continues。
to make me aware of my weaknesses。
and His power through my weakness,。
and so, yeah, it's a consistent work in progress,。
you know, it's ongoing.。
- Well, and what I love now is that you're giving。
your life to others, and yes,。
this is why we need the Holy Spirit, right,。
just to say, would you continue to purge。
the old world scorecard from us。
and empower us to live in a new way?。
But bro, I see that in you every day as your close friend,。
and I see how you're giving yourself away,。
and you today are working with professional athletes。
on basically this very thing.。
You had shared a story about a very famous athlete。
within the NBA named Wayne Simian,。
and we have his permission to share the story,。
but can you just kind of share,。
as you're working with a player today in Spain,。
a story that Wayne told you that really connects here?。
- Yeah, I think it resonates with a lot of us。
like high-pressure athletes, you know, like goal-driven,。
so what happened was what you showed earlier。
on the scorecard was what the media does,。
but in the game, there's an actual stat sheet。
that tells rebounds, assists, turnovers,。
steals, points, all the stats of the game,。
and a lot of times, what us players do。
is we go right in the locker room,。
and the first thing we grab。
is we wanna see the score sheet.。
We wanna see the stat sheet.。
We wanna see how we did.。
- How did you do?。
- Yeah, exactly, so our eyes go right to us, right?。
And I think that's natural.。
If you ask any pro athlete, that's probably how did I do?。
And so what that causes is if you have a bad game,。
if you have a good game, there's good feelings,。
and you're happy, and you win, and all that,。
but if there's a bad game, you can kinda go in the dumps,。
and what one of my friends, Wayne Simeon, said was,。
"I stopped going into my locker when I sat down.。
"I didn't grab the stat sheet.。
"I grabbed a note card that had all the truth。
"in the scripture about who I am in God's view."。
- Wow.。
- And so he changed the stat,。
like literally changed the stat sheet.。
- Scorecard switch. - And he picked up。
this scorecard and started going to the truth.。
I am the light of the world.。
I am God's child.。
I am his son.。
I am a heir.。
I'm a co-heir with Jesus,。
and he started just going down the scripture。
of this scorecard and the truth in the scriptures,。
and I think that kinda raised my awareness。
to what I was doing as a player, and I'm still doing,。
and how I can shift into that,。
and I think a lot of players,。
that would resonate, that story, and it has,。
as I've been talking to other pro players.。
- Yeah, and I think whether you're a business leader,。
whether you work at home, wherever we are, we can relate.。
We all have a scorecard,。
and that's the first thing that we go to,。
and that's the invitation for all of us.。
I love that you wrote a letter, you said.。
Did you write that to God?。
I know you got baptized later.。
Was that letter written to God?。
- Mm-hmm, yeah.。
I wish I still had it, but I think it was just empty,。
basically just the confession。
of how I'd been living my life,。
and what I wanted.。
I wanted more of him, and less of what I'd been going after,。
and so, yeah, that relationship took on a whole new meaning,。
and it continues to grow day by day.。
- Well, I know God still has that letter.。
We'll get to see it in the kingdom one day, my brother.。
- Yeah. - Yeah.。
Hey, would you just join me in saying thank you to Ryan。
for sharing his story?。
So, thank you so much, Ryan.。
- Thanks for having me.。
It was a pleasure to be here.。
- Awesome.。
Well, as Ryan transitions,。
let me just go ahead and give his email out。
so that you can send your complaint。
about his preference for American basketball.。
I really wanna say sorry for that, Hong Kong,。
but isn't that a beautiful thing, though?。
A real-life story of someone who has learned。
and is learning how to say,。
"Jesus, you keep a different score,。
"and it's a radical score, and it's filled with grace,。
"and where I might feel like a two in my life,。
"you say I'm a 10,。
"where I might feel like I'm a negative 18,。
"you say, hey, listen, you can't score any higher。
"because of my love for you."。
Jesus looks at you,。
just like he looked at the rich young ruler.。
Jesus hears you if you're feeling trampled。
by all those passing by,。
and he says, "You're essential.。
"You were born with the dignity。
"since before the foundations of the world.。
"You're a 10 in my heart."。
And that's why I went to this place called Planet Earth,。
that's why I surrendered my life.。
All the things that Jesus did are right here.。
He said, "I'm gonna go last.。
"I'm gonna seek solidarity and commonality with you。
"as human beings, being fully God and fully human,。
"and I'm gonna give my life away,。
"and I'm gonna abandon the grave on the third day."。
Why?。
Because you are essential.。
All that I have created and called good and very good。
is essential, and I'm taking it back for good.。
That's the invitation.。
The call of Jesus, I'm keeping a different score,。
and it's time to change teams.。
So cheer up, O church.。
On your feet, he's calling you to a new scorecard,。
because that's the new way that we win.。
In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit,。
we say and pray together, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
