(silence)。
Can you believe it's the middle of November,。
2020 is nearly gone and you go into the shops now。
and you see Christmas decorations, things to buy.。
During Christmas time I particularly think。
a lot about England.。
There's much more of an English Christmas vibe,。
well there's a lot more of a Christmas vibe going on。
in England.。
Hong Kong just has lots of nice big trees。
and decorations inside the malls, right.。
But when I'm thinking about England and the Christmas,。
I think the Christmas we had before we came to Hong Kong,。
we went to a place called Litchfield Cathedral。
to watch the snowman, an orchestral performance。
of the snowman.。
It was a wonderful time, it just makes me think,。
oh, just Christmas is so nice.。
But as I was thinking about the different,。
actually England is full of big, beautiful churches.。
I don't know if you've been to England。
and you'll see all these huge cathedrals。
and these are just such beautiful pieces of architecture.。
And as I was preparing this message here,。
there was one that really popped into my mind.。
And when I went to study in the University of Leeds,。
there was one near the main entrance of the university,。
near the Parkinson building.。
And it was again, a beautiful building。
and they're everywhere, even in the small villages。
and towns and cities.。
And I walked past it and then you know what the name。
of this church building was, what was outside?。
A nice big sign, the name of the church was,。
not St. Peter's, not St. Andrew's, it was Halo.。
And I'm like, oh, that's an interesting name for a church.。
I mean, I guess it's kind of religious,。
but that's a bit weird.。
And it turns out this wasn't really a church anymore.。
It was supposed to be a church,。
it was a church at the beginning,。
but now it was a nightclub.。
That had appropriately called themselves Halo.。
I guess if I was an unbeliever and I'd acquired。
a church building to run my nightclub,。
Halo is a pretty cool name.。
And then it made me think, there are so,。
and those of you from England will know,。
there are so, so many churches, church buildings,。
sorry, in England, that are no longer housing churches,。
but they are housing nightclubs and community centres。
and all these different things.。
And as I was looking at this passage today,。
it really reminded me of that church building。
that is now called Halo.。
This idea that there's a church that was the body of Christ。
that had this reputation for being alive, but was now dead.。
And as I read through this passage today,。
my prayer for all of us is as we read through this letter。
to the church in Sardis from Jesus Christ himself,。
that we will take heed from some of the things。
that he tells this church,。
because this church hit home into my heart.。
I'd love to read it to you now first.。
Revelation chapter three, verse one to six.。
And to the angel of the church in Sardis,。
write the words of him who has the seven spirits of God。
and the seven stars.。
I know your works.。
You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead.。
Wake up and strengthen what remains and is about to die,。
for I have not found your works complete。
in the sight of my God.。
Remember then what you have received and heard.。
Keep it and repent.。
If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief。
and you will not know at what hour I will come against you.。
Yet you still have a few names in Sardis,。
people who have not sold their garments。
and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.。
The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments。
and I will never blot his name out of the book of life.。
I will confess his name before my father。
and before his angels.。
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says。
to the churches.。
This is the word of the Lord.。
Actually, before I continue, can I pray for us?。
As we dissect and look at these verses here,。
my prayer is that the Spirit of God。
will really be speaking into our hearts.。
Let's just pray again.。
God, as we were singing to you。
and as we were worshipping you,。
that final song and those lyrics,。
just, "Yet not I, but Christ in me."。
And Jesus, I know that these words that you wrote。
to the church in Sardis are the words。
that you are speaking to us right now,。
both as a body and as individuals.。
And so I pray that your Spirit will continue。
to speak into our hearts and that we won't just listen,。
thinking that this is for somebody else.。
But Lord, that we know that this is from you,。
not me, from you to us, to all of us.。
We thank you for this chance to go through this.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
So Sardis was an interesting kind of city.。
It was a former royal town.。
It was found, it was in a valley,。
but it was at the top of a little steep spur in the valley.。
And it was a very wealthy town.。
It had a reputation for being a very wealthy town.。
King, many kings had stayed there,。
but it was also invaded by many different people.。
But there's really not much else we know about this city.。
Now, the other churches,。
out of the letters that Jesus writes,。
we know quite a bit of context.。
With Sardis, we don't know much.。
The only thing we know about Sardis。
is that it was invaded quite a few times.。
So it was captured by foreign nations.。
And another is that within the church,。
there wasn't really any false teaching.。
There wasn't any false heresy like the other churches had.。
And another thing was,。
they also didn't really have any persecution.。
They were actually quite a comfortable church.。
So these are some of the key factors。
as you look at this church in Sardis.。
But what's interesting is,。
there's no false teaching, there's no persecution,。
yet it is the most damning of them all。
in terms of the letter, in terms of the rebuke.。
Jesus, we talked about the poo sandwich last time,。
where it's constructive feedback,。
where you have a bit of encouragement,。
then you have the really bad stuff,。
and then you have an encouragement。
just to finish at the end.。
With Sardis, there is nothing.。
It is just bad, bad, bad, bad, bad.。
And this is a church that we know really know nothing about.。
So what that is really interesting。
as we look at this passage.。
And it starts off, verse one.。
"And to the angel of the church in Sardis write。
"the words of him who has the seven spirits of God。
"and the seven stars."。
That really here is referring to Jesus is the one who,。
and it is Jesus' spirit that is speaking.。
It's the complete Holy Spirit。
is speaking to this church in Sardis.。
It is practically the same as the other ones。
where it says the one who holds the stars,。
the one who holds the lampstands,。
who walks amongst the lampstands is saying here,。
the Holy Spirit is speaking to this church.。
Jesus talked about this, John 16, eight.。
"And the Holy Spirit will come into the world。
"and convict the world of sin and righteousness."。
The Holy Spirit is coming to this church。
and telling them what they are doing right and wrong.。
And then it starts.。
"I know your works."。
We've seen that before.。
Jesus is saying, I know what you guys are doing.。
You are good people.。
You have good programs.。
You have good outreach initiatives.。
You are doing good stuff.。
I know that you have works and I know what they are,。
but you have the reputation of being alive,。
but you are dead.。
And I wanted to share the four observations。
that I have with you first.。
I'll list them all first so you know where we're going。
so you can track a little bit easier.。
And the four observations I had。
from these six verses is this.。
The first one is this.。
Reputation is not reality.。
Reputation is not reality.。
Number two, remember what you have received.。
That's what Jesus is telling them.。
Number three, repent or be removed.。
And finally, he does finish on a positive note.。
Reward awaits the resilient.。
So if you were to sum these six verses down,。
I know I'm not really doing much.。
I'm just going from six down to four,。
but this is essentially what Jesus is saying.。
And we'll start with the first one.。
Reputation is not reality.。
And he says here, you have the reputation。
of being alive, verse one still, but you are dead.。
Have you ever based some of your decisions on reputation。
and then been left disappointed?。
In England, this happens more if someone tells us,。
hey, there's a nice restaurant。
that you should go and try and eat.。
It's got a good reputation.。
And then you go and it's like, oh, it really wasn't that nice.。
I should have gone to Nando's.。
(audience laughing)。
Right?。
'Cause Nando's isn't the best, but it's just safe.。
But that's England.。
In Hong Kong, most restaurants are quite nice.。
Reputation, though, is not reality.。
What Jesus is saying here is,。
you guys are known for being alive.。
You guys are known for being righteous.。
But I can tell you that is not the reality.。
People think that you're alive, but I know you are dead.。
People see on the outside and think you're doing well,。
but I know on the inside, you are not doing well.。
Now, can you just imagine if you were this,。
if you were in this congregation in Sardis,。
this former royal town, comfortable, no persecution,。
you're doing a decent job, it's a comfortable life,。
but you know that you're not alive.。
You know you're just doing things just for the sake of it.。
You know that's just how you've been doing.。
But then Jesus himself tells you,。
I know you, I see through you.。
Wouldn't that just send shivers down your spine?。
Jesus said this to the people that he saw,。
Pharisees, Matthew 23, he says,。
you guys are busy cleaning on the outside of your cup,。
but the inside of your cup is dirty.。
I ask that to myself.。
How much do we, do I get engrossed with。
how I present myself to other people?。
What reputation I have?。
Reputation is so important here, right?。
Especially in a city like Hong Kong.。
And yet Jesus is saying, your reputation is not reality.。
And this is a question that all of us believers。
have to ask ourselves.。
What are we like on the inside?。
Are we people of integrity?。
Where we are the same when we're on our own,。
and we're the same when we are around other people?。
Recognizing that Jesus sees straight through us,。
and us as the church.。
Well, first of all, we have to ask ourselves,。
what kind of reputation do we have?。
Right, it might not even be a good one.。
This church had a good reputation, what about ours?。
Jesus desires for us to be known as people who follow him,。
as people who love one another, who strive for unity.。
Do we have that reputation?。
Before we even think about reality,。
that's the first thing that we really have to go for.。
And that starts with us as individuals.。
So I ask you, brothers and sisters,。
how are you doing inside?。
On the outside, you guys look great, you really do.。
And you're in church, so therefore reputation.。
We know that you're believers, we know that you love God,。
but what about on the inside?。
What are you like on the inside?。
What am I like on the inside?。
Because it is so dangerous if we look clean on the outside,。
but are dirty on the inside.。
It is dangerous for us as believers to be operating in that。
because it's hypocritical.。
It's dangerous for leaders, for church leaders,。
to be on that.。
And actually, church leaders, recently we've seen,。
we are just humans.。
And if we serve just on empty tanks,。
then we're just as bad as the rest.。
It's important for us to have reality checks。
on where we are at.。
It's also dangerous because it actually causes,。
if we don't do a reality check on ourselves,。
we are prone to sleepwalking.。
Sleepwalking, does anyone sleepwalk here?。
I used to sleepwalk, I used to sleepwalk,。
especially when I was a kid.。
It's actually quite terrifying sleepwalking, right?。
Well, not for the person who's sleepwalking,。
it's actually quite leisurely,。
but for the person, people who watch other people sleepwalk.。
So growing up, my brother and I,。
we used to share a room together。
because he was scared of the dark.。
He's still afraid of the dark right now.。
So we had to share a room.。
And there was one evening, my mum and dad saw me get up。
and run around the house looking for my brother.。
And of course, in England, we have houses。
so we can actually run around.。
You can't really run around in Hong Kong apartments.。
So I was running around up and down the stairs,。
up and down the stairs, shouting, "Hey man, hey man."。
That's a Chinese name, He-Man.。
"Hey man, hey man."。
And then my mum, having known that this had happened,。
we were prone to this, she would let me be,。
'cause apparently you're supposed to let people be, right?。
Let them carry on sleepwalking.。
So she'd try and gently prod me back to go into bed.。
But I'd keep running around the house.。
And I can imagine this being really scary.。
Another friend of mine sleepwalked as well.。
I mean, we should have got together.。
It would have been fun.。
But he did something a lot more devastating.。
He walked into his parents' room。
and then stood by his mum's bed, thought it was a toilet.。
(audience laughing)。
And then relieved himself and then went back to bed.。
And so the mum's face would go, "What are you doing?"。
(screaming)。
(audience laughing)。
Amazing, but anyway, I didn't do that.。
I was just running around like a madman.。
Of course, my brother was just in my room。
and he was right next to me,。
but I was just running around looking for him.。
But I wonder how many of us。
actually are spiritually sleepwalking.。
How many of us are running around in life。
looking for something?。
We know there's something inside us that is empty.。
We know that we should be filling it with something,。
but we're just running around looking for it。
when all along it's been Jesus.。
When all along he's been right there,。
but we are spiritually asleep.。
We are sleepwalking.。
Are you spiritually asleep?。
Are you sleepwalking?。
Have you been in the faith for that long。
that actually you just don't remember when it first began?。
And actually you don't really care where it's going.。
You kind of know where it's going.。
You know you're supposed to be going to heaven。
at some point, but now you're just kind of wandering.。
Spiritually sleepwalking.。
That's a dangerous place to be in.。
That's a useless place to be in.。
You see, the church of Sardis didn't deviate。
from sound teaching, but it was sound asleep.。
And Jesus is saying, "Wake up."。
Sorry, some of you, I've actually just woken you up.。
Wake, hi, I'm still here, sorry.。
Wake up.。
You are spiritually asleep.。
Wake up.。
You see, this church didn't have any false heresies.。
But in some ways, actually a lot of commentators said。
that actually this church was content with being mediocre.。
In fact, to actually even have false heresies。
at least assumes that you had an enthusiasm for truth,。
that you were eager to learn something.。
You were just being misled.。
This church didn't even have that, so they didn't even care.。
So they didn't even have the enthusiasm。
to entertain heresies.。
Another thing is, they also didn't have any persecution.。
Why? Because their convictions weren't deep enough。
to be intolerant to the people outside.。
So therefore, the people outside are like,。
"There's no point in persecuting that group.。
"They are just a cozy, easy, lazy bunch of believers。
"that basically make no impact in the world.。
"Leave them alone."。
So this church was not in a good place.。
It was spiritually asleep,。
which is akin to being spiritually dead.。
And that's why Jesus says, "Wake up."。
Wake up.。
It goes, verse two, "Wake up and strengthen what remains。
"and is about to die, for I have not found your works。
"complete in the sight of my God."。
You see, I preached a couple of weeks ago。
on the church of Ephesus that had lacked,。
that had abandoned the first love.。
And Christina and I, we were in a Bible study today。
talking about amongst believers。
who'd believed for a long time,。
just talking about our first love,。
that they'd abandoned the first love.。
So the church of Ephesus lacked love.。
The church of Sardis lacked life.。
Both are crucial.。
The church of Ephesus had the head knowledge,。
but it had failed, it had stopped,。
and didn't let it drop down into the heart.。
The church of Sardis barely had the head knowledge, kind of,。
but didn't let it go into the heart。
and also didn't let it go into the limbs.。
It didn't spur them to action.。
So they were dead.。
And Jesus is saying, "Wake up, wake up."。
This week, there was some big news。
that I believe really affected the financial markets.。
There was a company that announced。
that they had found the vaccine.。
Pfizer announced that the vaccine is on its way,。
was fast-tracked, and it's 90% accurate, is that so?。
Let me know how it goes if anyone takes it.。
(audience laughing)。
As a biology teacher, I was thinking about,。
I mean, 'cause we've been talking about vaccines。
for a long time, feels like we won't be able to fly,。
truly, until we have this vaccine.。
But how do vaccinations work?。
Vaccinations work by injecting a weak or a dead version。
of said virus into your body,。
so that then your body,。
because it's only a weak or dead version,。
learns to tolerate it, learns to battle it,。
and learns to kill it, and it has the memory cells。
so then in the future, it'll have the antibodies,。
so when you do get exposed to the real thing,。
it now knows how to tackle it.。
That's how a vaccination works.。
Then I started to think,。
I wonder how many of us have injected ourselves。
with a weak or dead version of Christianity。
that stops us from experiencing the real thing.。
How many of us think that we have Christianity,。
but it's actually just a weak or dead version?。
Now, the problem with just having this weak or dead version。
is you cannot upgrade.。
You cannot just say, "Oh, I'm gonna move from,"。
or you can, but not naturally from this path.。
You have to get rid of the fake or the weak。
or the dead version of Christianity。
before you can truly experience the whole of it.。
But how many of us here are blocked。
because we have a weak or dead version of the faith?。
That's a question that only you can ask yourself,。
and that's a question that only you can get answers from。
between you and God.。
How many of us are spiritually dead,。
spiritually sleepwalking?。
Jesus is telling us,。
it doesn't matter what people think about you,。
whether people think you're still a Christian,。
whether people still think you're a leader,。
what matters is that I know。
that your reputation is not reality.。
So wake up, oh sleeper, rise from the dead,。
and Christ will shine on you.。
That is what Paul says to the church in Ephesus.。
Clearly, it's a problem.。
That is the first one, reputation is not reality.。
And then it carries on at the end and it says,。
oh, these key words here before I move on.。
For I have not found your works complete。
in the sight of my God.。
I have not found your works complete.。
When we see the word complete,。
whether it's downloading something on the computer。
or uploading or doing whatever, any kind of process,。
the word complete tells us whatever we wanted it to do,。
it is now done.。
It has fulfilled its purpose.。
But Jesus is looking at this church inside。
and saying, you guys are doing lots of works,。
but God is saying that your works are not complete.。
You are not doing what you're supposed to do.。
You are sleepwalking, you are running around in circles,。
looking for something, but you'll never find it。
because you're sleepwalking.。
So wake up, reputation is not reality.。
Number two, remember what you have received.。
Verse three, remember then what you received。
and heard, keep it and repent.。
Remember what you received.。
This is the same message as the church in Ephesus.。
Remember how you got here.。
Remember how you got into this church.。
Remember your first love,。
why you are even here in the first place.。
Remember that because what is the biggest problem。
in humanity, in us humans?。
Forgetfulness.。
Because forgetfulness leads to ungratefulness.。
Ungratefulness leads to ungodliness.。
Because for us, if we forget how far away we were,。
how blind we were, how broken we were,。
then we won't truly understand how much love。
he extends to us.。
And we see this as we look in scripture all the time.。
As we look in the Old Testament,。
we see the Israelites time and time and time again,。
forgetting, forgetting, forgetting.。
They learn a little bit, they burn themselves,。
they remember, and then they forget.。
And then they're just trapped in these vicious cycles。
of forgetfulness.。
So Jesus is saying, remember what you heard.。
Remember what you received.。
That's why anniversaries are so important.。
That's why communion is so important for us as a body.。
We're saying, together, Christ, we remember what you did.。
We need each other to remember what Jesus did for us.。
Remember what you have received.。
That you are not sat here。
because you did something great yourself.。
God did not choose to love you。
because he thought that you were。
particularly worthy of his love.。
Everything that we have is because we received it。
through grace as a gift, and it was free.。
And Jesus is saying, remember what you received.。
That is incredibly important if we are then。
to do the next thing, which is repent.。
Time and time again in these letters,。
Jesus says, repent.。
Not just change your mindset,。
not just make a few amendments.。
Jesus is saying, do a U-turn,。
turn from your old ways and repent.。
Or what?。
Repent or be removed.。
Jesus in these letters is pretty harsh。
because each time he will just say, you repent,。
or in this one here in verse three,。
repent if you will not wake up, I will come like a thief。
and you will not know at what hour I will come.。
The first letter, Jesus says he'll remove that church。
from the lampstand, shut them down.。
Here he says, I will come like a thief。
and you won't even know it hit you.。
This isn't the second coming though, by the way.。
This isn't Jesus saying, I'm gonna come again。
because by that one, it doesn't matter。
whether we're awake or asleep.。
Jesus is coming and we have no choice in the matter.。
But this one, Jesus is saying, if you don't wake up,。
if you continue sleepwalking, I will shut you down.。
Jesus is reminding this church,。
church, you are the lampstand, but you're not the light.。
I'm the light of the world.。
The role of the church is to lift up the light.。
But if the lampstand isn't doing its job,。
Jesus is saying, I will remove that lampstand,。
I will shut you down.。
See, it sounds harsh, but you know,。
Jesus is giving this church。
and he's giving us a wake up call.。
He's giving us a wake up call。
because we are sleeping, but in his grace。
and in his patience, he isn't shutting us down just yet.。
And he's giving us a wake up call.。
Now, 2020 has been the most terrible of years。
for most people, but from a spiritual sense,。
I am grateful for it because it provides us with what?。
A wake up call.。
Have you received the wake up call from this year,。
from 2020, as God removes all the comforts。
and all the things and all the routines。
that you had put in place to keep your life comfortable?。
Have you heeded his wake up call?。
This wake up call is super important.。
Actually, it's wake up calls that defined each moment。
in my life.。
At 17, when my father passed away, boom, wake up call.。
What are you doing here, James?。
What are you living for?。
At 23, I was in hospital for a month。
without eating anything.。
I came out incredibly skinny,。
just completely malnourished.。
But I remember during that month。
that I was in the hospital,。
I was never closer to God in that time then.。
Why?。
Because he was giving me a wake up call.。
The things that you think that you are aiming for in life。
at that point, God's saying,。
"I could take it away just like that."。
But in my wisdom, in my love,。
I'm allowing you to continue to live.。
So carry out your purpose.。
Your work is not complete yet.。
My next wake up call when I was 25, 'cause I got married.。
That's a big wake up call, isn't it?。
27, when I have my first child.。
29, when I have my second one.。
And then I'm in hospital again for another month.。
It's as if I don't learn.。
Because I'm forgetful.。
Are you forgetful?。
Those moments in your life。
where you're super close to God,。
where you start doing the spiritual disciplines,。
where you're doing all these things,。
and then slowly but surely, it just dwindles and forgets.。
And Jesus says, "Wake up,。
"because I could come like a thief."。
And I want you to wake up, repent, or be removed.。
Sardis, this church in Sardis would have known。
about this wake up call.。
I mentioned that it was invaded a couple times.。
In 500 BC and in 200 BC, it was invaded by enemy nations.。
How?。
In the most peculiar way.。
The enemy wanted to capture the city, the citadel.。
And so it planned and strategized.。
And at nighttime, they crept up to the citadel,。
and they realized the door was open.。
And so they just walked in and took over the city。
while all its residents were sleeping.。
This royal town that was relying on its reputation。
from the past was complacent.。
And that was 500 BC.。
And you'd have thought they'd learned.。
But just a few hundred years later,。
the same thing happened again.。
A group of 10 to 12 people went in, crept in,。
and the door was open again.。
And this city that was comfortable。
but complacent was captured.。
They were sleepwalking.。
So Jesus, knowing that context, was telling them,。
you've been here before.。
This is not a drill.。
You know that this kind of stuff can happen.。
In fact, in 17 AD, it does happen,。
but in a different way.。
They had an earthquake, which completely you can't control,。
which decimated the whole town.。
So they know things can happen.。
2020, fast forward to today,。
we know that things can happen.。
We know that the plans that we make。
may not actually happen.。
Proverbs 16, nine, that as we plan our steps,。
it is God who determines.。
It is God who establishes them.。
The book of James talks about this.。
Let's not say where we're gonna go tomorrow。
as though we're in complete control.。
We are not.。
We are but vapors in the wind.。
We could just disappear just like that.。
But that's not to say that we live in fear all the time.。
I had that.。
Actually, after my dad died suddenly,。
I had that fear all the time.。
Any moment, we could go.。
That's it.。
Any moment, we could go.。
Like, you could go, I could go.。
Everyone's gonna die.。
I had that mindset.。
That's not to say that we need to hold that mindset。
because we also believe in a good God。
who is in complete control,。
that nothing happens without him saying yes.。
What he does want us to do is to continue living today。
as though eternity is coming.。
And that is our role,。
to point the people of this world。
into the kingdom of heaven,。
to point them and turn their eyes to Jesus.。
That is why we exist.。
That is why we live and breathe.。
And if we don't do that,。
if we don't repent from following the old ways of the world,。
if we continue to conform to the passes of this world,。
Jesus is saying to his church, to us,。
you could be removed.。
So for us, it requires us to do a reality check,。
to do an audit of our own lives.。
Jesus says this,。
"Wake up and strengthen what remains,"。
'cause he knows that there is something there.。
Just like I'm looking at you thinking。
there is something there inside you。
that if it can be activated,。
the body of Christ would be better for it.。
God would be glorified in a better way.。
Many of you know that Christine and I,。
we transitioned into another role.。
We've been working with an organization called Young Life。
that goes into schools and universities。
to spread the gospel, to reach the unreached,。
to present them with the good news,。
because it is news to them.。
And that is our main mission, and that's what we do.。
But there's another group that really is on our hearts.。
It's preaching and sharing the good news。
to those within the church.。
Because we recognize the church,。
the church, the bride of Christ,。
we're not in a necessarily healthy state,。
but we are sleeping, we are sleepwalking.。
We have a reputation for being alive,。
but we're actually dead.。
And so the onus is on all of us as individuals。
to do checks on ourselves.。
Are we walking with God?。
Are we committed to completing works。
that are complete in the sight of God?。
So it's been pretty bad all the way until now,。
but there is a final nice point,。
and the fourth point is this.。
Reward awaits the resilient.。
And it says this, verse four.。
Yet you have still a few names in Silas,。
people who have not soiled their garments,。
and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.。
The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments,。
and I will never blot out his name out of the book of life.。
I will confess his name before my father。
and before his angels.。
That's the only bit of positive thing that is going on here.。
There are some of you, a few of you in this city。
have not soiled your garments.。
It's like a Chinese parent praising their kid.。
He's like, I can't say that you're good。
because there's something about me, I can't say it,。
but all I'll say is, not bad.。
That's all I can say.。
You're not bad, (speaks in foreign language)。
that's all I can get out.。
And in this church, almost Jesus is saying that,。
there's not that much good I can see,。
but all I'll say is, there's a few of you.。
There's a few of you who haven't messed this up.。
Now it's interesting because the other letters。
is often the majority are doing quite well.。
You've kept to the good teaching,。
you're doing your good works,。
but there's a few of you who have strayed away.。
This time it's flipped.。
The majority are asleep, but the minority are awake.。
And I think that's this kind of place。
that we find ourselves in right now here in Hong Kong.。
Do you recognize, do you know that we as believers here。
are the minority in this city?。
What's the percentage, John?。
I think it's 5% of Hong Kong are believers, 5%.。
Doesn't that break your heart?。
That there are people outside。
who do not know what they were made for?。
There are people wandering the streets,。
toiling, working super hard,。
but they don't know what they're doing it for.。
Doesn't that put more onus on us as the 5%。
to live out our faith,。
to not be sleepwalking at the very least?。
Because there is a whole majority out there。
that do not know God.。
Yet a few of you remain who have not sold your garments.。
And here Jesus gives the final encouragement.。
The reward awaits the resilient,。
even though you are minority.。
And I'm looking at you brothers and sisters,。
and I know that you are minority in your family.。
I know that you are the minority in your workplace。
or in your universities or in your schools.。
I know that you feel as though you are the minority。
and Jesus is here, is encouraging you.。
Say, you may be the only believer in your family.。
You may be the only Christian。
that's trying to uphold godly values in your workplace.。
And He's saying, remain resilient.。
Hold on, I see you.。
I know you're there, I know what you're doing.。
Keep fighting the good fight, keep running the race,。
because there is a reward that awaits you。
if you are resilient.。
I think there's someone in this room tonight。
who needs to hear that even though you are the minority,。
that God is gonna use you massively.。
Just like a little bit of salt can change。
how a whole piece of steak tastes.。
Just like how a little bit of a light in a room。
can completely change a dark room.。
You, brothers and sisters, are called。
to be the salt of the earth and the light of the world.。
And you may be a minority, but the encouragement is this,。
there is a reward that awaits you.。
So keep running that race, keep fighting the good fight.。
And what will you get in return?。
You'll get to walk with me in white, for you are worthy.。
The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments。
and I will never blot out his name.。
You get to walk with him.。
This is Jesus' promise and encouragement to you,。
that you will be able to walk with him in white.。
Why white?。
What's the whole point of that?。
It's just like a wedding dress,。
it's like a bride standing before her groom。
in a white wedding dress.。
It's a sign of purity,。
it's a sign of righteousness and holiness.。
And Jesus is saying, if you don't soil your own garments,。
I will clothe you in white.。
You will be presented to God as blameless.。
Your name will be written down in the book of life。
and it will never be blotted out.。
Which is probably an important message to the church,。
to the people of Sardis,。
who probably because of all the captures。
had different royal names being blotted out,。
but he is saying, I will never blot out your name。
and you will be clothed in white with me.。
So remain resilient, remain resilient, wake up.。
Remember what you received and heard, keep it, repent,。
turn away and you will get a reward.。
And here is the key word.。
Jesus says, you will walk with me.。
Even if you're the minority, you will walk with me.。
I am the one doing great things,。
I am the one making all things new,。
you just have to walk with me.。
But you see, there's a problem.。
Sometimes when we are the minority,。
not only do we get weary。
and just completely go back into our own shell,。
the other thing is we just think we're gonna fight。
and win souls for Jesus.。
And we're gonna do everything for him.。
Jesus, you stay back there,。
I am gonna go and fight this battle。
and do what I can for you.。
Jesus is saying, no, walk with me, don't do things for me.。
Jesus is calling them not out to action necessarily,。
Jesus is calling them in to his presence.。
Because that's the only way that we will stay awake.。
Not the maybe the new term now of being woke,。
that is different.。
Not completely different,。
but this idea of just being aware。
that Jesus is in your life。
and that he may call you to speak。
into racial, economical, political issues.。
But the key isn't those things,。
the key is being close to him, to walking with him.。
Because if you walk with him,。
you will be clothed in white,。
you will be righteous, you will be blameless.。
So my encouragement to you is if you are a minority。
or if you are struggling to hold on,。
Jesus sees you, Jesus sees you,。
so keep on that path, keep going.。
For those of you who are sleepwalking,。
I'm saying, wake up, wake up.。
Because Jesus is calling you into his presence。
and calling you into action.。
There is no time and no space。
where we can be spiritually asleep,。
especially at such a time as this.。
And the final verse that we keep seeing。
over and over again, verse six,。
"He who has an ear, let him hear。
"what the Spirit says to the churches."。
He who has an ear, everyone here has an ear.。
So Jesus is speaking to all of us here.。
But why do we have to trust him?。
Why do you have to commit to following him。
and hearing these words?。
Because he can be trusted.。
He says here, "The one who conquers。
"will be clothed thus in white garments."。
We can trust him because he conquered,。
because he was the one that conquered death,。
because he was thought to be dead,。
but is now alive.。
He had a reputation for being a rebel,。
for not submitting to authorities,。
for threatening to overthrow the Roman Empire.。
But instead, the reality was he submitted himself,。
sacrificed himself, and ended up ushering in。
a completely new kingdom that was not of this world,。
that outlived the Roman Empire.。
That is why we can trust him.。
That is why we need to take heed of what he says.。
We need to remember what he did for us.。
And then we need to repent and choose to follow him.。
And we know that there will be a reward.。
Why?。
Because of what he did for us.。
See, our works were incomplete,。
but Jesus, he came to this earth,。
and he finished it by declaring three words.。
It is finished.。
And by carrying out his purpose,。
his work was complete, and we, he had one job.。
We had one job to do, and that was to save all of us.。
And he did it via the cross.。
And he got his Father in heaven,。
opened up the heavens and declared,。
"This is my Son, with whom I am well pleased."。
The words every Chinese child yearns to hear。
from their parents.。
Because his works were complete.。
And his reward was now that his name is above every name.。
That even though he shed his blood,。
that he wore the crown of thorns,。
he now has white garments and robes.。
And the key is that he now offers those garments to you.。
That he is saying,。
"It doesn't matter what you've done in the past.。
"I've dealt with it.。
"It is gone.。
"It is complete."。
It doesn't matter how sleepy you've been in your life.。
He has the power to speak life into you.。
It doesn't matter if you feel as though your life。
is just a valley of dry bones.。
Scripture tells us that the Spirit of God, Jesus himself,。
has the power to speak life into you.。
And that is my encouragement to you today.。
Church of Hong Kong, Church of Kung Fu, wake up.。
Arise, O sleeper.。
Rise from the dead and Christ will shine on you.。
And we all know that there is a 95% majority out there。
that their souls depend on us waking up。
and sharing that good news with them.。
Brothers, sisters, are you awake?。
Let's pray.。
Jesus, we come before you and we hear this wake up call.。
We know that you see every aspect of our lives.。
You know that we are prone to sleepwalking.。
We are prone to chasing for things, meaningless pursuits.。
Or you know our inactive state.。
And we come before you and we repent.。
We remember that you did not call us to a life。
of just comfort, of complacency.。
But that you've called us to be active parts of your body.。
So we pray that your spirit will strengthen what remains。
and is about to die.。
Lord, I know that there are people in this room。
who are clinging on for dear life。
in their own spiritual lives.。
And I pray, Lord, that your spirit will strengthen。
what remains, that you will help them rise up again,。
Lord, that you will shine on them.。
That you will remind them that this is a gift。
that they can receive.。
There is nothing that they need to do。
other than open their arms to you.。
Lord, because you were the one that conquered death.。
And Lord, because of your grace,。
you shared our victory with us.。
You were the one that was dead, but was then alive.。
And because of that, we who are dead can also now be alive.。
(gentle music)。
So we declare together as one body,。
albeit the minority in this city.。
We declare with everything that we have。
that Jesus, you are alive.。
And that we rejoice.。
And we allow that fact head from our heads into our hearts。
and then spur us into action in our hands and feet.。
We as a body desire to be woken up。
and to follow you.。
And it's in your precious name we pray, amen.。
(piano music)。
