Now, we're going to move into our sermon segment, and we're going to do this slightly differently.。
And the title for today's talk is Tracing Our Steps As We Walk Ahead.。
Tracing Our Steps As We Walk Ahead.。
And we're actually going to do it as a group effort, remembering the early church that。
there wasn't heavily reliant on maybe just one person bringing the word.。
In the gatherings that defined the early church, we're recognising that we are all part of。
the body.。
We all have different gifts, and we all have different things to bring to edify the body.。
And what a great opportunity to give this a go during a season like this and Chinese。
New Year, where we all get to bring something slightly different.。
And I titled this Tracing Our Steps As We Walk Ahead.。
And I want to share with you a little story.。
Last week, I went on a spiritual solitude retreat, and I went all the way to the New。
Territories. Hands up who has been to the New Territories recently.。
For those of us who live on Hong Kong Island who think that Kowloon is far, then you don't。
know a thing. New Territories is even further.。
My family are from a place called Yuen Long. So I went there, and I went to stay overnight。
in a place called Tin So Wai. Tin So Wai. Actually, it was a hotel that my family used。
to stay at when we used to visit back here.。
And I woke up the next day, and then I decided just to go for a walk, just to see where the。
Lord was taking me.。
And I looked on Google Maps, and I saw a seafood fishing village nearby. So I thought, "Oh,。
well, why don't I walk there?"。
And so I started walking there. And as I was walking down the road in this place called。
Lau Fau Sam, and as I was walking towards there, I started getting these childhood memories。
flashing back in my mind.。
I started recognising the roads that I was walking along. And I was like, "Oh, I've been。
here before, but I'm not entirely sure why or what I was here for."。
And then as I kept walking, it dawned on me that actually this is the place where my grandparents。
were buried.。
And so then I was like, "Oh, well, I'll just keep walking." And then eventually I found。
the place where they were actually buried.。
And then, of course, it was a Buddhist temple. So I walked in, and then they were all on。
the wall, huge wall, and I had to walk around.。
It took me probably a good hour to find the picture of my grandparents. And I told my。
mum, "Oh, look what I found." You know, I found my grandparents. And she was like, "Oh,。
actually, your great-grandparents are also nearby. So why don't you go and find them。
as well?"。
And then another half an hour later, I found them as well. And as I was reflecting on this。
journey, and I was just sitting there in this Buddhist temple, and I was like, "Wow, I've。
come a long way, or my family have come a really long way."。
You know, just thinking back that actually my family were from China, from a county called。
Bao'an. And then eventually my great-grandparents moved to Hong Kong, settled in the new territories。
in Pingshan. And then from there, that's where my grandparents started to really kind of。
just settle down here.。
Then my dad, I'm sure I've told you guys about my dad before, he was a high school dropout。
in Yuen Long, couldn't cut it, got sent away to Taiwan. And that was when he met Jesus.。
And then he came back and then we ended up in the UK.。
And then fast forward all these years, now I, as their grandchild, or as their great-grandchild,。
and sat there under the picture of my grandparents, and my great-grandparents, but this time as。
a Christian minister.。
And I was thinking, "Wow, what a journey that my family has been on."。
And as I traced my steps, all I could see was God's hand. All I could see was God's。
faithfulness and God's goodness, and just this, His working for His glory.。
And I thought, "What a great thing to talk about as we look and reflect on Chinese New。
Year."。
And there's really three questions that I've been asking myself when I've been thinking。
about us and the Chinese culture.。
There's one, where did we come from?。
Two, where are we right now?。
And three, where are we heading?。
So as we figure out what we're doing as a culture, as a people, as a nation, it's so。
helpful to trace our steps first, to see where we've come from, and then to recognise where。
we're at, and then to figure out where we should be heading.。
And those are the three questions I wanted to really address with us today, and also。
ask these lovely people around me.。
The first question is, where did we come from?。
At least in terms of our spirituality, our faith.。
One of the earliest dynasties in the Chinese culture is the Shang Dynasty.。
And the Shang Dynasty, I think, is the second one on record.。
And the Shang Dynasty, they actually worshipped ancestors, and they treated them as demigods。
almost.。
But they also worshipped, ultimately, an OG ancestor, if you will, the ultimate ancestor。
at the very, very beginning of time.。
Did you know that?。
And do you know what they called this OG ancestor?。
This original ancestor?。
Shang Di.。
Song Dai.。
And that's who they worshipped.。
They worshipped this force, this being called Shang Di.。
And then of course, the Chinese culture has taken lots of different journeys from there.。
It's gone from worshipping one being almost, to then worshipping many, many.。
Now the Shang Dynasty actually existed in 1500 years before Confucius or Buddha were。
even born.。
So this was way before then, but of course, Confucius was born, and Buddha, and then religions。
from India started coming in, and then they went from worshipping one thing to worshipping。
many, many things.。
They worshipped all these different things.。
And then as time progressed, the Chinese culture eventually, maybe in the last century, have。
declared, especially in the mainland, that they are a culture that doesn't worship any。
god.。
Cantonese is "mǒ sān lèng", there is no god.。
And so we've gone from one god to many gods to no god.。
And it makes me think, wow, what an interesting story that God is writing in all this.。
And that's where we come from.。
And where are we right now?。
Christianity is growing fast in the Chinese culture.。
God is clearly moving.。
We look at Hong Kong, we look at the churches here, we look at all the things that are going。
on.。
We can say with certainty that God is alive and well, and that he is moving.。
And there's so much in our Chinese culture that is good.。
There is so much of it.。
And actually, it's one of the questions I want to ask all of us here is, where can you。
see God in our Chinese culture?。
And I want to have you think to yourself, where did you come from?。
And actually, where are you right now, culturally, spiritually?。
The Chinese culture is steeped with just great things like honour, like integrity, like perseverance.。
It's all in line with the teachings of the Bible.。
Yet, of course, as mankind has progressed, as the Chinese, as a people, we have progressed,。
we have also deviated from the ways of God as well.。
And there are many, many things that are now not of God within our culture too.。
Things that strike fear into us, things that cause us to envy, things to fill us with pride,。
putting our faith in the wrong kinds of things.。
And so I think that's part of where we're at right now.。
And my question really is, how are we to maintain an appreciation for our culture whilst also。
still honouring God and not compromising our faith?。
Chinese New Year is full of rituals and things that we have to do when we visit friends and。
family, when we meet younger people and we're forced to give them money, which I think is。
totally not of God and not evil, which is why we are resisting from giving these people。
red pockets.。
Because it's just, I ask myself, is this really of God?。
Only joking, I'll give them something.。
No, you can leave now.。
But that question remains.。
For those of us who are fully Chinese and fully Christians, how do we live out our faith。
in a way that both honours our culture, appreciates our culture, but also honours and loves our。
God and doesn't compromise in our faith?。
These are fascinating questions.。
And finally, where should we be heading?。
Now we've evaluated where we came from and maybe some of the tensions and struggles that。
we have, what should we really be doing?。
As God is moving in our people, what should we be doing?。
How should our hearts be changed?。
How should our mindsets be shifted?。
And I was really just thinking about this and praying about this.。
I was led to a book in the Bible that I thought actually has something very interesting to。
say to us.。
And that book is one that we're very familiar with.。
It's 1 Peter.。
We just went through it and we probably went through it way too fast because there's so。
much good content there.。
But there's this passage that I wanted to read to us today, just to allow it to really。
seep into our minds and our hearts again.。
And I'll read it to you.。
And of course, Barney's very kindly put it on the screen for us as well.。
1 Peter chapter 1, verse 14.。
As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance.。
But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written,。
you shall be holy for I am holy.。
And if you call on him as father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds,。
conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were。
ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things。
such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without。
blemish or spot.。
And you look at this passage and you actually think about actually the context in which。
this was written.。
Peter writing to these new believers, seeped in the cultures that they were in.。
And he's asking them and saying, hey, as obedient children, don't conform to these passions。
of your former ignorance.。
Verse 17, you are to live out a new way of life now.。
Why do they have to live out a new way?。
Why do they have to now be holy?。
Again, verse 17, because and if you call on him as father, that is why.。
You see, in the ancient world and actually very much in the Chinese world, the father。
is the one that has the say in the household.。
Whatever the father says goes.。
Everything is dictated and determined by the father.。
And Peter saying here to these believers, hey, you have a new father now.。
You're going to ask yourself that question.。
Who's your daddy now?。
It isn't the ways of the world.。
It isn't the idols of the world from the past.。
You have a new father now.。
And because of that father, that must impact the way you live.。
It means that there are new rules to live by now because of this father.。
And so because of him, you have to transform.。
You have to remind yourself, verse 18, knowing that you are ransomed from the futile ways。
inherited from your forefathers, knowing that you were ransomed.。
You know, I always have this question, how is God redeeming the Chinese culture?。
How is he redeeming it?。
Like, one of the things that we have now fallen short on, how is God redeeming it?。
And I realised, I think I was asking the wrong question.。
Because actually, God, I don't think, redeems a culture.。
He redeems us from the culture.。
Do you get that?。
He's not necessarily focused on the cultures, which are all man-made, but he seeks to redeem。
us from our cultures, from the things of man.。
Because now, because of the blood of Jesus, we now belong to his house, his home, his。
kingdom, his culture.。
He has redeemed us from the world's culture and brought us into his family.。
See, Jesus entered at a time where the most prominent and most powerful culture that has。
ever been on this earth was right in its prime.。
And have you ever wondered, why did Jesus choose that moment to come into this world,。
to invade the world, and to set up his throne and to start something, start a kingdom, start。
a revolution that ended up outliving the most powerful empire, outliving, outlasting the。
Roman culture?。
You see, Jesus came to this world not to necessarily dethrone the cultures of this world, not to。
necessarily dethrone the kingdoms of this world, but rather to show a new way, show。
that his way is even higher, and that the economies of this world are flipped upside。
down when it comes to the kingdom of heaven.。
And he ended up starting something that was so much more transformational.。
You see, God placed us here in our culture, I believe, to appreciate it, to honour it.。
There are some beautiful, righteous things about the way that we live, but we're also。
needing to be careful in remembering that we are in this world, but we are not of this。
world, that we have been redeemed from the things that are not of God within our culture.。
Romans 12, 2 says this, "Don't conform to the patterns of this world, but be transformed。
by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what。
is good and acceptable and perfect."。
You see, for us as believers, and I feel strongly about this, is we as believers, we need to。
test ourselves constantly, check our hearts, and ask ourselves, what about our faith?。
What about our lives has been influenced by the world?。
You know, there's a lot of talk about this, and recently I read a book called Pagan Christianity,。
which really forced me to think, where do the traditions, where do the practices that。
we have inherited come from?。
Are they really of God?。
We all need to ask the question, why do we do what we do?。
Is this righteous?。
Is this holy?。
Is this of God?。
Because we have a Father in heaven now.。
You see, the problem is, and I feel as though we all maybe have been guilty of this, is。
Christianity did convert the world, but I also wonder if the world ended up converting。
Christianity as well.。
Maybe there are parts of our lives, maybe there's a part of our faith, our own mindset,。
our own psyche, that has been converted, that has been influenced by the world.。
And God is calling us again and telling us, know that you were ransomed from your futile。
ways inherited from your forefathers, and I know for sure I have futile ways in my life.。
I know for sure that I chase perishable things.。
But reminding myself at this time of year that God has redeemed me, redeemed from that。
culture, from that way of thinking.。
And so I wanted to really open that up to ask my lovely brothers and sisters here some。
of those questions.。
And actually it's a great and fun way for us to get to know each other a little bit。
about where we come from.。
And so the first question I want to do is direct to Florence over here.。
Florence, where do you come from?。
Where do your family come from?。
My family came from, so I came from my mom and my dad, who, surprise.。
Great.。
But my dad is from Maoming, which is around the Guangdong region.。
And then my dad should be fact-checking this and I'm saying the wrong things.。
And my mom is from Laozhou, which is around the Guangxi area.。
And then they both, as in my grandparents were from there, and then they escaped from。
China to Hong Kong.。
And then here we are.。
Okay.。
So it's your grandparents that moved?。
Yeah.。
Okay.。
They moved.。
Yeah.。
Brilliant.。
And that's almost your cultural heritage.。
What about your spiritual heritage?。
What's the journey as you trace your steps?。
Where did that come from?。
Yeah.。
So my grandparents, they weren't Christians and I think some of them turned to other Buddhists。
or quite didn't think that there was a God.。
And then, but my dad's grand, no, my dad's dad, when he first came to Hong Kong, he actually。
was, went to a Catholic church who then helped him a lot with just being, approving his like。
degree to be able to teach.。
And as he met the church there, the father who was there, he got to know God.。
So that was where we kind of first crossed paths with the Lord and the Lord has been。
gracious and revealing more to him just personally in our own family.。
Wow.。
You know, I find something that's really fascinating about us believers here in Hong Kong is that。
so many of us are actually first, second or maximum third generation believers, maximum.。
And actually it doesn't take us tracing our steps too far back to find when God entered。
our family and when God was in, when Jesus was introduced to us, which is maybe different。
from the States where some of the pastors that I follow are seventh generation pastors.。
So all their lineage comes from pastors.。
It's just a, it's a different kind of experience and history that we have.。
You know, that's fascinating.。
Paul, where do you come from?。
Well, this is a little bit different.。
So I was born and raised in Australia.。
So my mum is first generation Australian and then with English and Scottish descent.。
And then my dad is born Swiss and then moved to Australia when he was like early twenties.。
So that's, I'm first generation Australian on one side and second on the other side.。
Oh, I see.。
And what about your, what about your spiritual heritage?。
So I grew up in a Christian home.。
So I was going to a church in Australia since basically I was born.。
And then, but my mum and dad both like growing up in Australia and in, and in Switzerland,。
they were kind of around church, but they weren't necessarily from like Christian families。
themselves.。
So they're kind of both first generation as well.。
And then, yeah, so that's my spiritual heritage.。
Oh, thank you.。
Thank you.。
And is this so Julian, what about yourself?。
In terms of cultural heritage, I come from an immigrant Chinese background.。
So Malaysian Chinese, and that can be traced back to my great grandfathers who immigrated。
from Southern China to Malaysia in search of a better life there.。
And then my grandfather and my father were both born and raised in Malaysia.。
And then my dad moved from Singapore here.。
So I was born and raised here.。
So that's my cultural heritage.。
In terms of spiritual heritage, I can trace that back to my grandfather as well.。
The church had a strong missionary presence in Malaysia at that time.。
So he came to faith through, I think it was the Assemblies of God actually, through what。
they were doing there in Malaysia.。
And then my dad also came to faith as a young teenage boy through the Brethren Church.。
So I can trace my spiritual heritage back just three generations as well.。
Oh, interesting.。
And of course, as I hear a story like that, I'm filled with appreciation for missionaries.。
We see in the Book of Acts, all these apostles and missionaries who, facing persecution,。
scattered, but didn't stop, didn't give up, didn't hide, didn't try and conform to the。
patterns of this world.。
But they couldn't help themselves but share the gospel.。
And I feel as though all of us are beneficiaries of these spiritual giants, some we know of,。
some we don't know of, who actually, if it were not for them being so committed to spreading。
the gospel, we may not even be here as children of God.。
I think that just fills me with praise for how God uses people to work.。
Absolutely.。
Absolutely.。
Christina, what about you?。
Where did your family come from?。
Well, I only just discovered that both my parents' grandparents came from Bao'an.。
Bao'an is a province in Guangdong.。
Guangdong, yeah.。
And my grandparents moved to Hong Kong in search for a better life.。
And then my parents, so my dad grew up in Genting and my mom grew up in a place called。
Lei Ji Wo.。
Yeah, it's a little island.。
And they both moved to the UK in their teen years.。
And then funnily enough, I came back.。
Very quickly then, I wanted to ask just maybe just the first thing that pops to mind.。
What is it about the Chinese?。
Let me rephrase this.。
Where do you see God in the Chinese culture from your angle?。
Where do you see God in the Chinese culture?。
I think I see God in how in the Chinese culture, there are also very specific roles for the。
family and there's also just like a sense of duty to the family.。
And in my family, my mom's side is a very traditional Chinese culture.。
So then they really valued a lot of that.。
And also just in the value of family, which is a huge thing in the Chinese culture.。
You want to gather for all the "Tunin Fa" and all the winter solstice.。
It's just the thing.。
And all these are just values that God has as well for us to be family and treasure all。
that.。
Are there any downsides to actually to some of those features?。
Would you say that actually it is a godly thing, but has ended up maybe not being so。
godly?。
Yeah.。
Yeah.。
And I can see that just in the very traditional areas of the heritage from my mom, where in。
the duty, there was a lot of just a lot of shame when you couldn't achieve that kind。
of duty or a sense of feeling that you have to be able to do certain things in order to。
get a reward or to in order to feel loved, where it's pushed to the extreme where we。
don't recognize the drive of just doing that thing will be for love or where even though。
there are roles in the family where the women would be supporting the men in their work。
that went very far on that spectrum of patriarchy where the women didn't have opportunities。
to study to be a part of just to take on more of the things and they could where, yeah,。
where in Christ where the love would redeem that.。
Yeah.。
That's great to hear.。
And Paul, what about you as a, as someone who's kind of learning about the culture?。
What is it?。
What is it about the culture that you where you see God is clearly working?。
One thing that comes across strongly to me, and I think especially at KFCI is just humble。
service that comes across a lot, whether it's like from people my own age, but also some。
of the most successful people I've ever met are willing to just serve in ways that are。
in their, in their line of expertise and also not as well.。
So I think that that takes real humility and willingness.。
And one other thing I'd say is also just the high value on sort of education.。
It means that people when they really, they really want to know about what they believe。
in so that that desire to really understand the scripture, understand what, what it is。
they believe is, is I think really a lot more, a lot more prevalent than in maybe some other。
cultures.。
Yeah, that's great.。
And yeah, I think there is this, there's maybe built into our cultures and maybe the way。
we were raised is this thirst for knowledge, this thirst for being taught to fill, to fill。
our minds with, with good stuff.。
And actually that is good.。
But then of course, when it comes to our own kind of humanity, there's always that risk。
where we, where we, where we yearn and thirst for knowledge.。
And actually scripture talks about this, Psalm 27.。
You know, the one thing I ask for, one thing I seek is to, of course, be in his presence,。
gaze upon your beauty, but also inquire in his temple.。
I think that's such a good thing to have.。
But maybe the things that we neglect are the being in his presence, the gazing upon his。
beauty.。
And those are the things that maybe we as a culture struggle with a little bit more.。
Yeah.。
And then here, what about you guys in terms of, as you, as you know, the Chinese culture。
well, are there some things where you think, you know, I really wish God would be bigger。
in this dynamic, in this setting.。
Is there anything that really pops out to you guys?。
How can, how can God really redeem us from certain parts of the culture?。
Well, this is me just thinking off the top of my head, bouncing off what are you guys。
think, but yeah, we, we know how to grind.。
We have a great work ethic, right?。
So you know, I, for one, am the benefactor of so much hard work that, you know, my father。
put in, my grandfather put in, and, you know, forging a life and a household in Malaysia.。
So there's, there's that, there's that strength of our culture that again, has that dark side。
that I think you just alluded to James, where we, and I think maybe in some ways I've inherited。
this, we have a trouble with sitting still and just appreciating what's good around us,。
being present.。
And there is just that constant instinct to just keep working, keep working, keep working,。
like what's next?。
What's next?。
You know, how can we provide for others?。
But you know, there's a, there's, I think there's a real sense in which the Lord wants。
us to enjoy Him and to enjoy what He, what He's placed around us as well.。
That just, just that ability to be still and to, you know, to take a step back.。
Thank you.。
Something we've inherited for, for us in our culture.。
That's really good insight there.。
And actually that ties in with, you know, maybe your experience, Christina.。
I think, yeah.。
I think growing up, culturally I've always been shown or taught to show respect and honor。
in your parents and to obey, right?。
And I would say that that's probably translated into my faith where like, okay, this is Father。
God.。
How do I respect, honor and show obedience to God?。
And almost to the point where I idolize the doing of that and forfeit the, you know, the。
relational aspect of being with God and being at the foot of, you know, Jesus, you know,。
to learn about who He is and what He would actually like me to do in my life.。
And I think that's, that's also reflected and tied into the way I relate to my, my dad。
as well.。
You know, so it's, yeah.。
Yeah.。
And of course in this new year where it's the year of the ox, the ox known as the one。
that represents hard work, resilience, actually shout out to Andrew Garner at the Vine that。
John was part of as well.。
Actually, he reminded us of the fact that actually Jesus or the way the scripture talks。
about the ox or the Jesus' yoke is easy.。
It's not hard work.。
And actually we can't get there ourselves.。
We actually have to rely on Jesus.。
And maybe there's so much in our culture which is like, no, we can do this.。
We have to do this.。
And of course I can see the Aussie is.。
Someone else can do it.。
Someone else.。
So the Aussies don't quite have that same kind of thinking.。
But we have that.。
But that is completely contradictory to what the gospel is saying, that we are saved by。
faith and faith alone.。
And actually it's Jesus who does His work in us.。
And sometimes we try, we work so hard to be the one that pleases both man and God.。
And actually that shouldn't be the way.。
And so maybe we're talking here about when we're looking at ourselves as Chinese Christians,。
maybe that's where we've got it the wrong way around.。
That actually we should be Christians who are Chinese.。
Maybe what we're saying is actually our identity as children of God should be first and foremost.。
And then it's the fact that we are then made in this culture is a secondary factor.。
And as we accept Jesus into our lives, as we recognise God as our Father, things should。
change for us.。
Julian, you had something that was interesting to share about that as well, right?。
That's right.。
That's right.。
As I touched on, I have a more plural background with growing up here in Hong Kong, but my。
parents are from Malaysia.。
So I identify with the label third culture, Kay, which some of you might be familiar with,。
where you have a sense of both belonging to multiple cultures, but at the same time feeling。
a bit alienated from each one because you don't quite fit perfectly into one mould.。
So that's a dynamic I've just been aware of throughout my life.。
But I think as a result of that background, I particularly appreciate places in Scripture。
that talk about how the kingdom of Christ transcends cultures.。
So the passage I wanted to share with all of you tonight was from Revelation 7, which。
is the Apostle John's vision of the new creation and what that's going to be like when Christ。
comes again.。
And so I'll just read from Revelation 7, verse 9, starting from verse 9.。
After this I looked and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation,。
from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the。
Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud。
voice, "Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb."。
So as I was just reading that again, I'm struck by maybe the fact that, yeah, that picture。
of the kingdom resonates with me, how Christ came to save both Jew and Gentile.。
He broke down the cultural hostilities between them then, and he's capable of breaking down。
those same barriers today.。
So I think I just appreciate that more as maybe, yeah, with my particular background。
and how my true identity, as you said, James, is as a citizen of heaven.。
That's how Paul would phrase it.。
That's where we're going.。
That's where we're journeying towards.。
Well, at the same time, just the final thought, just appreciating what you said about how。
we're Christians who are Chinese.。
So what I find really interesting about that passage is I just get a real sense that the。
gospel and Christ's kingdom transcends cultures, but it doesn't erase cultures.。
You can see how those nations are still somewhat distinct in their features, and that all comes。
under Christ's kingdom.。
So I think for me personally, that's meant that I've felt more happy to more recently。
to get to know my roots more, to improve my Cantonese, to work on that side and understand。
where I've come from.。
And that's all good and well and part of the Christian life as well for me, I would say.。
Guai jiang.。
Guai jiang.。
Hey, just on that, before I wrap up, as I gave you guys a few days to just mull and。
think about this, for you to share with our church family here, were there any passages。
of scripture or words from God that really resonated in your heart or maybe you felt。
as though God was speaking to you about that really ties in with what we've just talked。
about in terms of what does God have to say about the way we live?。
Yeah, I have something to share.。
And the passage is from Ephesians.。
For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing.。
It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.。
For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand。
that we should walk in them.。
And just as I was reflecting on my entire family's journey throughout all of these generations,。
and just the redemption God has had on just a completely broken family where they wouldn't。
even talk together on my mother's side, to now, yesterday, just sitting together at the。
dinner table, seeing gifts exchanged, to see that God's grace is able to redeem all of。
us.。
And it's not any of our doing.。
It's the gift of God, not a result of our works.。
But also in this time to not forget beauty and also the duty that there is, and how there。
was a duty to the family, there was a duty to provide and to just do what they can for。
the family, much like our family of God.。
And all of this is also just, yeah, we are God's workmanship created in Christ so that。
we can walk in them.。
So that there is that, yes, that there is a lot of grace for us and where we fall and。
where we are unable to just be there.。
But God also calls us so that we can continue to walk in his work and he will supply us。
in his will and his kingdom.。
Thank you.。
Praise God.。
Thank you for that.。
Christina, anything that really struck your heart?。
Yeah, I think it's very similar to the lines of Flora.。
I've been studying Ecclesiastes and it's very sad and it's like, "Oh, woe is me," and all。
that kind of stuff.。
But something struck me that was different this time.。
Let me read it.。
Ecclesiastes 5.18, it says, "Behold, what I have seen to be good and fitting is to eat。
and drink and find enjoyment in all the toil with which one toils under the sun the few。
days of his life that God has given him.。
For this is his lot.。
Everyone also to whom God has given wealth and possessions and power to enjoy them and。
to accept his lot and rejoice in his toil.。
This is the gift of God, for he will not much remember the days of his life because God。
keeps him occupied with joy in his heart."。
And that has just, yeah, just warned me so much because as an ox, year of the ox, and。
I think a part of the environment.。
That means she's 24 years old, by the way.。
I think cultural background and also family background, working hard is something that's。
a must.。
That's so ingrained in me.。
But here, actually, while Ecclesiastes is so much about vanity and things like that,。
everything is like chasing after the wind.。
This is saying, "Hey, eat, drink, and be merry."。
Eat, drink, and be merry.。
And yeah, I just want to encourage all of us to do that.。
And whilst working hard is great, we should do that, but we should also enjoy the things。
that God has blessed us with.。
Thank you.。
And Paul?。
Yeah, I mean, mine is almost more like an encouragement, actually.。
So to go back to what I was talking about before, which really stands out to me is that。
humble service.。
So Galatians 5, 13 stuck out to me.。
"For you were called to freedom, brothers, and only do not use your freedom as an opportunity。
for the flesh, but through love serve one another."。
I have a translation that says, "Humbly serve one another."。
And over this as well, the thing that also stuck out to me in this, this passage is talking。
a lot about how that church was to actually help people to come and know God.。
And actually that humble service and that love is really powerful and really, it moves。
a lot and it goes a long way.。
So that's my kind of encouragement, and to say that, that comes through and to continue。
on.。
Thank you.。
Thank you so much for that.。
Hey, and actually I've really cherished being able to just have here, you guys just bring。
something that God's placed on your heart and share what's been, he's been talking to。
you through his word.。
But I just wanted to wrap up here and maybe, I asked three questions at the beginning.。
I asked, where did we come from?。
Where are we right now?。
And where are we heading?。
Maybe I want to finish by turning those questions to you.。
And those questions, and I would love for you to ask yourself and really, and reflect。
on and then take before the Lord and ask him as well.。
And those questions are the same, but maybe instead of we, we switch it around to have。
the word I.。
And maybe ask yourself, where did I come from?。
As you look back on your own life, as I did, as I went on that journey from Tien Tso Wai。
to Lao Tso San, as I walked, as I reflected on where I came from, as I sat beneath my。
grandparents' picture, recognizing the story that God has been writing on my life, my question。
to you is, where did you come from?。
Now, I'm not talking necessarily just about cultural heritage, but about your spiritual。
heritage or just your life in general.。
What has God been doing in your life?。
Because one of the great things about moving forward is also remembering that we need to。
look back to be grateful.。
Gratefulness is so key, it's such a key theme in scripture.。
It's such a key part of our own faith and our own maturity.。
As you look back, can you see God's hand in your life?。
Can you see the faithfulness that he's shown you, the goodness that he's poured out on。
you?。
And then from there, really the next question is, where are you right now?。
Where are you right now?。
When it comes to your faith, when it comes to how you as an individual, as a child of。
God, how do you interact with the culture around you?。
Are you more culture rather than Christian?。
Are you more Chinese rather than you are Christian?。
Or does your faith really come first and foremost at the top of your list in terms of priority?。
Recognizing that actually people will look at you differently if you are first and foremost。
Christian.。
1 Peter 4, Gabriel preached on this.。
There are those who knew you from the past won't understand your new way of life, won't。
understand why you aren't joining them in doing the things that they do.。
But still recognizing that you have been ransomed, you have been rescued and redeemed from the。
things that are not of God.。
But it's interesting, 1 Peter also says, even though we stand out from them, even though。
we don't do the things that they do, 1 Peter 2, verse 12, says this interesting passage,。
keep your conduct among the Gentiles honourable so that when they speak against you as evildoers,。
they may see your good deeds and glorify God.。
So even though we may not do all the things that the world does, maybe there are traditions,。
maybe there are things that our families will be doing over this weekend, but maybe we don't。
want to do.。
But Peter is also saying here, keep your conduct honourable.。
Be righteous, but don't be a jerk about it.。
Follow Jesus, but don't stamp on the people around you either.。
Keep your conduct honourable.。
And maybe the final question is this, where are you heading?。
Where are you heading?。
Considering your past, considering where you've come from, considering where you are right。
now, all the things that you're holding in balance, all the tensions that you are experiencing,。
where does God want you to head?。
Because often when we're asking God, where do you want us to go, where do you want us。
to go?。
It's helpful to look back, to see how far we've come, that actually we're not where。
we used to be.。
Now we're not where we want to be, but we're definitely not where we used to be.。
And it gives us encouragement, it gives us hope that God is still working in our lives,。
and gives us maybe a little bit of a hint as to what he is planning for us.。
Because we are all uniquely made to be in the unique family and work and education settings。
surrounded by the people that we're surrounded by.。
God has a very clear and unique calling on all of our lives.。
And it's up to us to really spend time with him to find that out.。
And remembering, and finally, as you trace your steps, as you remember the unique place。
that you are in right now, and the unique place that God is calling you to.。
That his call for us is not to redeem the culture, but to be redeemed from the culture.。
To stand out, to be a blessing to those around us.。
And recognising none of that is easy, because people look at you strange when you don't。
conform to the patterns of this world.。
But also remembering that Jesus set us that example in how to step into a culture.。
And he stepped into the most powerful one, which maybe has lots of parallels with the。
ones that we've got right now.。
He stepped into that, not to condemn it, but to save it.。
Not to condemn it, but to save it.。
In fact, he sacrificed himself for that culture and ended up rescuing all of us.。
He stood out and he was different.。
And he ended up giving up his life so we wouldn't have to.。
So we could live a life that is abundant.。
So we could gain a true abundant life.。
So this Chinese New Year, my encouragement to all of us is, as well as sharing blessings,。
is eat, drink, be merry.。
Don't spread COVID.。
Stay positive, test negative.。
Don't enjoy the blessings that God has given you, but remember to also stand for the things。
that Jesus stood for in the most honourable and loving way.。
Because in him, we have a new father now.。
And this father in heaven allows us, compels us to play by new rules.。
And these rules give life.。
We are Chinese.。
Most of us are Chinese.。
But we are now first and foremost, children of God, citizens of heaven.。
May that be a blessing to all of you.。
Let me end with a word of prayer before Paul leads us in a song of response.。
Let's pray.。
Father in heaven, we come before you.。
As one day we all will, all tribes and all tongues.。
And recognising it doesn't matter what race we are, what culture we come from, but that。
we are all your children.。
And you paid for us with a price, a large one.。
You died as a ransom for many.。
And now we are free.。
Free not to conform to the patterns of this world, but to love this world.。
So Lord, we pray that you will give us wisdom on how to navigate the challenges that we。
face living in a culture such as this.。
But may we appreciate and honour all the things that are of you that we find in this world。
around us.。
And may we also in love stand for truth to those things that are not of you.。
And as we end with this song, we remember that we are all your children.。
We are united.。
Just as it says in Corinthians 12.。
That we are all of the same love and the same mind and the same spirit.。
We are all part of the same body.。
We are one.。
And may the world see our unity and believe in you.。
And it's in your son's precious name that we pray.。
Amen.。
