It's so good to see you human beings!。
Isn't it good to be together again?。
Actually, you know what, who are we kidding?。
We've had people on the MTR for a good few weeks now.。
Has it surprised you when you suddenly see all these people on the MTR again?。
It's kind of like moving to Hong Kong all over again.。
And I was like, "Whoa, social distancing, bro!"。
But it's really good. It's really good to be here to see everyone.。
I pray that you've all been well.。
Last week, Pastor John started us on a new series called "Dear Church."。
"Dear Church," looking at the book of Revelation.。
And today I get the honour of going through the first letter。
that Jesus writes to the first church He wants to talk about.。
The book of Revelation really is the revelation of Jesus Christ.。
You see, I can't do it. OK.。
Let's just move this aside.。
The revelation of Jesus Christ to the Apostle John.。
To us.。
You know, the whole book, the whole Bible is basically pointing towards what?。
Pointing towards Jesus.。
Jesus is central to God's rescue plan for us.。
And we see here now in Revelation, is Jesus revealing Himself.。
And it looks nothing like we expected.。
Jesus looks nothing like we expected or had prepared ourselves for.。
In fact, we sang a little about it.。
That He will return.。
And it looks very different.。
And if you look at Revelation 1, you'll see a very, very different Jesus。
to the lovey-dovey, teddy bear Jesus that accepts us and forgives us.。
And so we now start in Revelation 2, and He writes to a church in Ephesus.。
Ephesus is an interesting city.。
It's described as Asia's supreme metropolis.。
It wasn't the official capital, that was Pergamum.。
But in some ways, Ephesus was the economic, political and spiritual capital.。
Maybe very similar to New York.。
Everything was there. Everyone was there.。
Every business was there. All the money was there.。
All the religions were there.。
In fact, the main, the chief cult that was there。
was a cult that worshipped the goddess Artemis.。
And so John writes and receives this vision from Jesus。
to tell to the church of Ephesus.。
And as we look through this letter,。
as we look through all the letters in the next few weeks,。
what I want us to do is, as we look at what Jesus says about this church,。
is ask ourselves, "Is that us?"。
Can we see any of this in us?。
And then what are we supposed to do about it?。
Jesus, as He goes through these different churches,。
He gives what, in England, we would call good constructive feedback.。
It's called a poo sandwich, where He starts off with something good,。
then He moves into something less good,。
and then He finishes off with a bit of encouragement at the end.。
And as we look at this constructive feedback that Jesus gives these churches,。
I ask you to look into your own heart.。
I look into my own heart.。
And we, as a church, ask, "Is Jesus saying this to us right now?"。
And so this is the first one.。
And we're going to look at it.。
And you can turn there.。
Actually, we've got it on the screen.。
And it's Revelation 2, verse 1-7.。
And I want to go through each verse.。
I haven't got three points today.。
We've got seven verses, so we're just going to go through it one by one.。
Okay?。
So the first verse is this, and I'll read it to you.。
And it says this, Chapter 2, verse 1.。
"To the angel of the church in Ephesus write,。
'The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand,。
who walks among the seven golden lampstands.'"。
So Jesus reveals to John in a vision, and He tells him to write this down.。
And He sends a message to the angel of the church in Ephesus.。
And He says, "The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand."。
What are the seven stars?。
If you look at the end of Chapter 1, you'll see, verse 20,。
"As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand,。
and the seven golden lampstands,。
the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches,。
and the seven lampstands are the seven churches."。
So He's holding the angels, and then, here's the key sentence,。
He walks among the seven golden lampstands.。
This is my first observation.。
Jesus walks amongst the church.。
Jesus knows the church.。
He writes to the church and calls the church by name.。
And He knows the church, and later we'll see, He knows the works of the church.。
He knows all these different things.。
And the first observation is that Jesus knows the church.。
Jesus knows us.。
I want to ask you, how do you feel if I told you that Jesus knows you,。
and is walking amongst you?。
How would you feel if Jesus was sat right here?。
Can you just pause for a moment and just imagine。
if Jesus Christ Himself was sat on this chair?。
How would you feel?。
What would you be thinking?。
What would you think about that you've done this last week?。
What would you be thinking about what you need to address and do now?。
You see, Christine and I, we entered into full-time ministry a good few years ago,。
and we dedicated our lives to spending our time to talking about Jesus,。
to doing work for Jesus, to serving Jesus.。
You know, I'll confess to you, sometimes I forget that He's next to me.。
I forget that He's walking beside me.。
I fail to acknowledge His presence, His existence in my life.。
How about you?。
For those of us who have grown up in the church,。
who know all this stuff, who know how to talk about Jesus,。
who know how to serve Jesus and do all these things,。
how aware are we of Jesus' presence in our lives?。
KFCI, how aware are we that Jesus is walking amongst us?。
Who walks among the seven golden lampstands?。
He's actually walking with us.。
He is here right now, and He knows us.。
I don't know about you, that gives me a little bit of an uneasy feeling.。
Because Jesus is actually right here.。
He's actually seeing what I'm doing.。
He actually knows what I'm thinking.。
He actually knows, He can see how I'm treating other people.。
Jesus knows us.。
Jesus is walking amongst the church.。
Verse 2.。
"I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance,。
and how you cannot bear with those who are evil,。
but have tested those who call themselves apostles and none are,。
and found them to be false."。
This is the model church that we in Hong Kong revere.。
A church, Jesus says here, "Hey, I know your works.。
I know your good works.。
You guys do good stuff.。
You do good Bible studies.。
You do good prayer groups.。
You do good outreach.。
You do good 101s and 102s and 103s.。
You do good things.。
I see that.。
I see you, church.。
You are good."。
Then He says, "I know your toil.。
I know it's not easy.。
I know that you guys are diligent.。
You are hard workers.。
Things are not easy outside.。
What was not easy?。
The church in Ephesus was stuck between two big, big powers,。
the Roman Empire and the temple.。
And it was hard, but still they were doing good work.。
They were hard workers.。
Does this sound familiar?。
Does this sound like a church that we here in Hong Kong strive to be?。
That we do lots of good stuff, that we work hard?。
Isn't it natural to us that that's what we do?。
And so Jesus is saying to this church in Ephesus,。
"I see you.。
I see you're doing these things.。
What else do I see?。
And your patient endurance."。
As I said, it wasn't easy at that time.。
The patient endurance really represents a persistence in faith.。
So this church had gone on for a couple of generations now.。
The early church fathers, the ones who maybe spent time with Jesus himself,。
or spent time with Paul, they had now gone.。
And now the church was filled with people, their children,。
their children's children, their children's children's friends,。
and all the people had just joined the faith.。
And things were not easy.。
In fact, they were very hard.。
But yet they showed patient endurance.。
That meant that even in the midst of the tough times,。
even in the midst of not seeing where the hope was,。
where the future was, they were still committed.。
And Jesus saw that.。
So this was a resilient group.。
This, right now so far, is a good church.。
Right?。
It's a good church.。
It's one that we all, in some ways, strive to be.。
And how you cannot bear with those who are evil.。
So not only was it hard working, not only did it have good programs,。
it also was committed to the truth.。
It wasn't compromised.。
Ephesus was full of different people, different distractions.。
And yet it remained true to the biblical truths.。
It stayed and it could not bear with those who were evil.。
It did not tolerate sin.。
And we'll find out later, there were groups of people within the church。
who did compromise,。
who started to take advantage of the newfound freedoms,。
who then started to basically twist the faith to serve themselves,。
to satisfy their own desires.。
Yet here we see the saying,。
"How you cannot bear with those who are evil.。
You did not tolerate sin and you stuck with the truth。
and you were committed to the truth."。
Still sounds good.。
Still sounds like an A+ kind of church.。
"But have tested those who call themselves apostles。
and are not and found them to be false."。
Here again, they are committed to the truth.。
They tested the false apostles.。
They tested false preaching.。
During that time, there were different groups.。
There were the Nicolaitans, which we'll read a little bit more later.。
There were the Gnostics,。
who were starting to kind of preach a twisted gospel,。
where if you got it, you got it.。
You're in the secret club.。
If you are elite, you will get it.。
And they were starting to twist the gospel.。
They would twist what the scripture was teaching.。
But these guys, the church in Ephesus remained true.。
They stayed and were committed to the truth.。
How did they test the apostles?。
That meant that one, they were knowledgeable in the word of God。
and that they were also tight-knit,。
that they would be in community.。
They would talk and pray and wrestle with。
the things that were out there,。
the distractions that were out there.。
And they would test them against the word of God.。
And they would see that those were false.。
They were committed to the truth.。
Still, what an admirable trait to have.。
What a great church to be a part of.。
And it carries on.。
"I know you are enduring patiently。
and bearing up for my name's sake,。
and you have not grown weary."。
Again, that patient endurance.。
Why? Because there was persecution.。
Brothers and sisters in the church were falling like flies.。
And yet they would still hold on, knowing that this was true.。
Can you imagine how much conviction。
they would have had to held to the truths in their heart。
when things weren't going well?。
See, they had this faith passed down to them。
from their fathers and from their forefathers.。
And yet here they were, clinging on to doing the right thing,。
running the right programs, and sticking true to the word,。
even when it did not serve them well.。
Even when it would have been easier just to tell the Romans,。
"You know what? It was all for a bit of fun.。
It was quite a good little thing. Don't worry about us.。
We're not going to threaten your power here."。
And just left it. They didn't.。
They held on to it. They were patiently enduring。
to the point where they did not grow weary.。
Did not grow weary. Are you weary?。
Let me tell you, I am weary.。
This last year has been quite a wearisome year.。
But it's interesting.。
When times are tough, when there is suffering,。
that's when our true convictions are revealed or exposed.。
I don't know about you.。
This last year for me, with all the tough things,。
and Christina and I, we realized that we're really not that good.。
That we really weren't that strong.。
That the things that we thought we put our faith in, we didn't.。
We keep saying we trust God, but actually,。
this last year has shown us every time there's an opportunity to be angry,。
every time there's an opportunity to be frustrated,。
we take the bait.。
And we realize we're not as strong as we were.。
That the truths that we said, that we declared, that we believed,。
we kind of believed.。
But when it came to it, when the going got tough,。
our inner self was exposed.。
What about you? Are you weary?。
See, it's interesting.。
During a time like this, these people here,。
they were going through persecution.。
They were getting hunted down, driven underground,。
yet they were patiently enduring.。
The persecution that we face now, if any,。
was nothing like what they faced here.。
Now, I don't know how you feel about the future of Hong Kong,。
and we're not going to talk too much about this,。
but what if there was one day that we were persecuted in the same way that this was?。
Where would you stand?。
How committed to truth are you?。
If it meant that it would cost you your life.。
If it meant it would cost me my life.。
How committed to truth are you?。
Are you as committed as these people here?。
This morning, I got sent an article from, written by, I think, Sydney Anglicans.。
And it was talking about how, you know,。
I won't name the country or the government here,。
but there's a country that has been tweaking and rewriting the Bible。
to serve its own purpose.。
Has been twisting certain stories so that when it's taught,。
it would basically serve the needs of that country instead.。
In some ways, that is a form of persecution that these guys faced.。
They were testing against false teaching.。
Now, and then I thought about this myself.。
We're lucky enough that we have the Bible in our hands,。
and we know that it's the true one.。
We have it on our phones. We have the ESV app. We have the Holy Bible app.。
What if that was taken away?。
What if we didn't have access to that anymore?。
I think then we would find out how grounded in truth our lives really are.。
So that when we look at stories that may be tweaked by mankind with selfish desires,。
we would be able to see it.。
We would be able to test it.。
And it convicted me.。
Because I think there'd be parts of the Bible, if someone tweets,。
I would have no idea that they tweaked it.。
Is that the same with you?。
But this church here, they were committed to the truth.。
This was a good church.。
And so persecution is a huge threat to the church right here and now.。
But there's something that's maybe even more threatening to the church.。
And I recently heard a speaker, an apologetic speaker, talk about this.。
That actually modernity is an even bigger threat to the church than persecution.。
What's modernity?。
It's what we have in this modern age right now.。
It's social media, it's consumerism, it's materialism.。
These things are even more threatening to the church right now.。
Why? Because it makes us think that all we have to do to get to heaven is turn up to church.。
It makes us think that none of our lives really have to change.。
As long as we turn up to church, we will get where we want to be.。
That we don't really need to live out our faith the rest of our lives.。
That we can still live comfortably.。
That we can still indulge in the desires of this world and still be okay.。
That we can have other gods around.。
We can have other idols.。
We can climb. We can have other ambitions.。
We don't need to fully follow Christ and that will be enough.。
You see, that is a much bigger threat to our church than persecution is right now.。
In fact, I think this year, of not having church taken away from us,。
really has forced us to evaluate what we place our faith in.。
What is the most important thing to us?。
I've been watching the NBA finals recently.。
My team is in the finals, which is why I'm talking about it.。
It's called the Los Angeles Lakers and their best player is LeBron James.。
And he's pitched up against his old coach and arch rival Pat Riley.。
And they both have a saying.。
I think LeBron got it from Pat Riley when he was being coached by him,。
which was "Keep the main thing the main thing."。
Keep the main thing the main thing.。
And I realise that's the same for us.。
When trials come, when suffering comes, do we even know what the main thing is?。
Do we know why we are here?。
Are we rooted in truth? Are we committed to Christ?。
Because when those trials come, that's what's going to be put to test.。
And this church passed.。
In the face of modernity, in the face of all the challenges that we face in this world right now,。
how are we doing?。
Are we committed to the truth?。
You see, the church, us, we have to be different to the people outside.。
We know the truth, so it must impact the way we live.。
So the way we love people, the way we work, the way we study,。
the way we interact, the way we do anything should be different because we know the truth.。
Because we've had the gospel planted in our hearts.。
We should be different.。
And there's another way we should be different.。
And that's what? In the way that we love.。
So not only should we be committed to truth like this church here, like this A+ church here,。
but we must also be different in the way we love.。
And that's where this church fails.。
And that's where Jesus has something to say against them.。
The next verse, verse 4.。
"But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first."。
This is the bad bit.。
"But I have this against you, this A+ church that has all these good works,。
that works hard, that patiently endures, that holds on to the truth, that tests false teaching.。
I have this against you. You have abandoned your first love."。
Wow.。
The main thing was not necessarily truth.。
The main thing was not necessarily works.。
The main thing was love.。
And you abandoned it.。
And abandoned is a strong word.。
Another version uses forsaken.。
You've left behind. You've ran away from it.。
"I have this against you. You have abandoned your first love."。
Have any of us here abandoned our first love?。
Pastor John talked a bit about this earlier.。
Do you remember the time when you first encountered Christ?。
When you first fell in love with Jesus?。
How did it make you feel?。
What did it make you do?。
How did it change your life?。
Are you still there right now?。
It's hard, right?。
It's hard to keep that kind of thing going.。
In some ways it's the same as relationships, the same as married life.。
Alex and Kara, you got married recently, so maybe that first love is still fully there.。
This month, it's Christina and I's 10 year anniversary.。
This month.。
Oh, thank you. That's good. Thank you.。
I was going to take her around the world and do everything and splash out.。
But because of COVID, we're going to go to Mong Kok.。
And Christina will tell you, actually we've been married for 10 years, but we've been dating for 20.。
And I remember in the early days where you'd receive a letter or you'd get an SMS or even better, you get an ICQ.。
Oh, only old people will recognize that one.。
I said, oh, she messaged me.。
Oh, she put an X at the end of the message.。
Two X's. Capital X. She misses me.。
I'm going to see her again.。
And now it's like, oh, you again.。
Why are you still here? Don't you have some place to be?。
And many of you here are married for even longer.。
And you will know that to even maintain that kind of enthusiasm and that passion, it takes work.。
And if you're not careful, if you abandon that first love, if you forget why you were here in the first place, you run into some problems.。
How did Jesus know that they had abandoned their first love?。
You see, it's quite a hard thing to judge, right?。
How did he know that they'd abandoned their first love?。
They were doing good works. They were doing good Bible studies.。
They were going to BSF. They were running outreach programs.。
They were doing all the right things.。
How did he know that they had abandoned their first love?。
A lot of commentators would say that the way he knew, or the way that they had lost their first love was because they stopped loving each other.。
That was it.。
You see, loving God and loving people comes hand in hand.。
If you realize that you're not loving people as much as probably because you've stopped loving God,。
that they are so close and intertwined together.。
And if you love God, you can't help but love people.。
And actually, the Apostle Paul, when he writes to this church in Ephesus in the book of Ephesians, chapter 1, verse 15,。
he gives thanks for the love that they had for each other.。
And now we see how far they have fallen. They have forgotten their first love.。
They have abandoned their first love.。
It's down to us to not abandon our first love.。
Another question.。
So that's how Jesus knew that they had abandoned their first love, because they'd stopped loving each other.。
But why did they stop loving each other?。
How did that happen?。
How do we stop loving each other?。
My guess is pride.。
You see, it's really interesting.。
When you first meet Jesus, you encounter His holiness and His purity and also His love.。
And you also are reminded and shown your own depravity, your own weakness, the depth of your sin.。
Peter, when he first meets Jesus, goes down on his knees and says, "Depart from me, Lord, because I am a sinner."。
And so maybe it's the same for you.。
When you first met Jesus, you realised the depth of your sin.。
And it's only when you realise the depth of your sin do you get to appreciate the depth of His love.。
Because unless you know where you've gone wrong, you won't know how good He is to you.。
It's very hard to sing, "How great is your love" or "How great are you, God," if you think you're quite great yourself.。
So then what we have here is then pride.。
And why do I know that?。
They are so committed to all the other things.。
They are so committed to knowledge, to truth.。
But maybe that's where the problem lies.。
Because you see, you remember from the beginning.。
You first meet Jesus and you realise and you're on the ground.。
And you just don't actually...。
The apostle John here at the very beginning, chapter 1, verse 17,。
"When I saw Him, I fell at His feet as though dead."。
That's the first exposure, that's the first encounter to the holiness of God.。
But then you realise, "Oh my goodness, He loves me.。
I'm allowed to be here."。
And that gratefulness, that release, that you're forgiven, suddenly just completely opens up a whole new world.。
And yet the problem is then, after that, you start committing to good things.。
"Oh, you know what? Now I'm saved by Jesus. I'm going to start going to church.。
I'm going to start going to clan. I'm going to start going to BSF."。
And suddenly what happens? These are all good things, by the way.。
Slowly, you start to feel better about yourself, which in some ways is not a bad thing.。
But then as you accumulate more knowledge, you start thinking, "You know what? I'm not so bad myself.。
I'm pretty good. I'm a decent person."。
And whilst that in itself is not a terrible thing, the risk is you start thinking,。
"Hmm, maybe my debt for my sin isn't that much."。
And the problem then is that you start thinking, "Hmm, how much does God really need to love me?。
I'm pretty easy to love."。
And then you have this pride. And then suddenly you think, "Oh, look at them.。
Oh, you see, I'm so much better than them. I'm doing all these different things.。
I'm doing so many works. I'm toiling away. I am patiently enduring. And look at them."。
I think that's where the problem lies.。
As we go on this journey, as we accumulate more knowledge, as we go on this path, which are all good things,。
you see, the Paul talks about this, that knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.。
And so that's where this church has gone wrong.。
And I wonder whether it's where we have gone wrong.。
We have been so engrossed with living a Christian life, engrossed with learning Bible verses,。
engrossed with forming our views on predestination and eschatology,。
that we have not allowed the main thing to still be the main thing.。
Love is the main thing. And it's so important for us to remember that.。
So I wonder whether church, and actually for us in Hong Kong, for us as Chinese people, we love to learn.。
We love to accumulate knowledge. We love a good expository sermon.。
We love a good Bible study in Leviticus.。
But I wonder whether even though it is a good thing that we have put it as the very top thing,。
when the very, very top thing is to love.。
Jesus' final prayer before he leaves was that we would love each other.。
His final declaration was that you will be known as my disciples if you love each other.。
That is the key. And maybe that's where this church went wrong.。
And this is where, for me, I'm trying to remind myself, this is not where I go wrong.。
Let's carry on.。
Verse 5.。
So Jesus doesn't leave them there.。
So he gives them some good stuff, then he gives them the really bad stuff,。
and then he shows them how to address this.。
And he gives them three very simple points.。
He says, "Remember, repent, and do."。
Remember, repent, and do. What does remember mean?。
Remember means think back to when you first met me.。
Your first state, when you realised who you were, how lost you were, how you were in darkness.。
But I came to you. Remember that.。
Because when you remember that, you remember the depth of your sin.。
And then you will realise again the depth of my love.。
And then you will be compelled to love others.。
So remember. It's the same as married couples who have maybe lost our way.。
It's go back to why we got married in the first place.。
What was the thing that I loved about you the most?。
And so you remember that.。
For us as a church, we remember why we came to this church in the first place.。
What drew us here? Why did God call us here? What has he called us to do?。
Remember. To look back and remember.。
And to see how far we've fallen.。
And what's the second step? To repent.。
Repent is to turn away. To realise that you've taken the wrong way and turn away.。
Just like this church, they were all good things.。
And actually many, many things start with the right intentions.。
They start with love.。
The early church fathers, when they put these Bible studies and these services。
and these teachings and prayer groups in place,。
they were all done out of love.。
Because they loved Jesus and they loved each other.。
So they put these things in place so that they can show each other more love.。
Yet somewhere along the line, they took a wrong turn.。
And mankind has this uncanny ability to corrupt anything that starts with good intentions.。
That even though it was started right, somewhere along the line,。
whether it's ourselves or someone we pass it to, eventually we lose our way.。
And Jesus is saying, "Go back. Remember. Then repent. Turn around and head back that way."。
And what's the best thing to do after that? Is do.。
Do the things that you did at first.。
Married couples, start talking to each other again.。
Start asking each other questions about how their day has been.。
What kind of food they like the most. Or just anything new.。
Do those things. Go out on dates. Talk to each other. Spend time with each other.。
And do the things. Find new hobbies.。
As for the church, go back to the things that are the most important.。
What are the main things?。
How are the ways that you can show love? Go back to those things.。
Remember, repent and do.。
I think that's a message for us as well.。
Remember how you got here at the beginning.。
Remember the darkness where God plucked you out from.。
And then repent and realise that you've made a mistake.。
God is gracious like that. His mercy is on you every day.。
And then do. Live it out again.。
It's important to live it out because if not, the consequences are severe.。
What are the consequences? The end of that verse.。
If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place unless you repent.。
If you don't do these things, if you don't remember, repent and live it out,。
what will Jesus do? Remove the lampstand.。
All these churches that made it into the Bible,。
these seven churches that Jesus writes to, all the ones that Paul writes to,。
they made it into the Bible. These were good churches.。
I haven't been to Israel or to the Holy Land myself, but for those who have been,。
they tell me that if you go and visit these churches, what do you find? Rocks.。
These churches made it into the Word of God, made it into the Scriptures,。
yet they did not survive. They ceased to exist.。
It makes me think, what right do I have to even think that a church like ours, KFCI, will exist forever?。
What Jesus is saying here is, if you cease to exist for the purpose that I have called you for,。
you will cease to exist.。
It makes me think that if we do not honour why God has placed us here,。
if we do not truly reflect His love, we could be gone.。
And not because, OK, one way we could go is because if we stop loving each other,。
we'll just self-destruct and then the church will disband. That has happened before, right?。
Another way, so Jesus is saying, if you don't stick to the main thing, which is loving,。
you will cease to exist.。
But He's very prepared to do it Himself. He says, here,。
if not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place.。
I will do it because you're not reflecting me to the world.。
What's the main argument against us as Christians, why believers don't want to come into the church?。
That you're no better than us. That you're a bunch of hypocrites.。
That you argue within yourselves.。
Why on earth would I want to come into you when I can get all the argument I can have outside?。
You guys are the same. And you read all this stuff. And you're still the same.。
That's my conviction. That's where I feel that I need always to work on, to remind myself.。
That this is why we were placed here, to love. And if we cease to fulfil that, we may cease to exist.。
See, we come to KFCI thinking that it's been around forever and that it will exist forever.。
But that's not the case. Things change. But the body of Christ should remain.。
Our love for Him and our love for each other should remain.。
That is the key takeaway for me. Let's carry on. Verse 6.。
"Yet this you have. You hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate."。
So Jesus, after doing that bad bit, after that threat of "I will destroy you all,"。
he then says, "But you guys still do some good stuff."。
The Nicolaitans were a heretical sect that had made compromises and arrangements with pagan society。
to basically say, "Hey, we have newfound spiritual freedoms. That should allow us to do whatever we want to do.。
So let's try and do both. Let's try and appear to be godly and holy,。
but let's also still indulge in everything that we want to indulge in."。
And that was that group. And so Jesus is saying here to them, "Hey, Church of Ephesus,。
but you are still doing a good job. There are so many temptations out there,。
so many distractions, so many compromises, but yet you guys have remained faithful to me.。
You still do not tolerate sin. You cannot bear with evil. So you are doing well."。
You see, interesting word here, "You hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate."。
So he's saying that, well done. Not that they hate the Nicolaitans.。
Remember, they hate the works of the Nicolaitans.。
That reminds me of a common saying, "We're not supposed to hate the sinner.。
We're supposed to just hate the sin."。
Again, this is part of what we as a church should have in terms of our identity and our ethos,。
is not to look outside and go, "Those guys are sinners. God will judge you.。
And because of that, I hate you."。
And there's this cancel culture now that we have where we disagree with one thing that person stands for,。
and we dismiss them entirely, and we just declare ourselves free to not need to love them anymore.。
But here, Jesus is saying, "I respect what you do, Church of Ephesus,。
because you hate the works of the Nicolaitans."。
And that is our calling as well, that we hate the things of this world,。
but we don't hate the people of the world.。
That our job is to love those who are still indulged in darkness, who are still indulged in sin.。
Our job is to love them just like Jesus loved us when he plucked us out from darkness as well.。
It is not our place to judge their political stance. It's not our place to judge their sexuality.。
It is not our place to look down on them because of their race.。
But it is our job to love them, regardless if we disagree with anything that they do.。
That is our calling as a church, to love, to keep the main thing the main thing.。
That is the most important.。
And finally, "He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.。
To the one who conquers, I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God."。
And he finishes this, and he finishes this with the Isletters very similarly as well.。
"He who has an ear, let him hear."。
Jesus said this when he was alive. You see in the Gospels. What does it mean?。
It just means everyone, listen up.。
It's the part where the preacher goes, "If you don't get anything from my sermon, listen to this."。
Take it seriously. Listen.。
"He who has an ear," and everyone here has ears, at least I think so.。
Everyone has an ear. Listen to what the Spirit is saying to the church.。
Take heed of this advice. Take it seriously.。
Put into your mind what I'm saying right now.。
So the one who conquers, and it is a battle. It isn't easy to love.。
Why is love even a commandment?。
We're not commanded to eat food. We're not commanded to go to the toilet.。
We're not commanded to sleep. We're commanded to love because it's the hardest thing to do.。
It's the one thing that Jesus says time and time again.。
The greatest commandment is to love God and love people.。
And he commands us because he knows how hard it is and that we will forget.。
Love these people. Choose to love these people.。
Listen to me and choose to find your first love again and love God and love people.。
And if you choose that, you are basically choosing the tree of life.。
In the Garden of Eden, if you remember, there were two trees.。
There was one tree of life and there's another tree of knowledge of good and evil.。
And Jesus is saying, "Choose me."。
Choose me in every decision that you make, whether big or small in your life, every single day.。
Choose me. And if you choose me, you will be with me in Paradise.。
And how do you choose him?。
You choose to love him and love the people around him with any opportunity that you are given.。
Brothers and sisters of KFCI, this letter to the Church of Ephesus, I believe, can also be a letter to us.。
I think it also can be a letter to you, to me, to not abandon our first love.。
To remember that is the main thing.。
Keep the main thing the main thing.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we thank you that you loved us enough to sacrifice your Son for us.。
And Jesus, we thank you that you chose to come to this earth to show us how to love.。
And Spirit, we thank you for being so gracious to us that you would speak this message to us.。
And we who have ears commit to listening to you.。
That we will not rely on our good works or our resilience, but that we rely on you, our love for you.。
And may that spur us on to loving those around us.。
So we spend just a moment now reacquainting ourselves with you.。
And maybe it's quite appropriate as we haven't spent any time together for these last few months,。
that as we sit here together, as a community, as a family,。
we embrace all the good feelings about being together again and that we look to you together。
and choose not to abandon our first love.。
That we remember what brought us here in the first place and that is you.。
So while some of us may have come to church this evening to see friends, to sing songs,。
to listen to a message, the truth is we should have come here to see you.。
And we remember that you walk amongst our church, you walk with us here.。
And we are comforted by that fact that even though the world outside around us is swirling of uncertainty,。
you Lord are here with us and that your love for us is so deep and so wide,。
there is nothing we can do to be separated from it.。
So we humble ourselves before you now.。
We thank you for your grace.。
We celebrate that we are forgiven and we commit to loving you all the days of our lives.。
And we pray this in your precious name. Amen.。
