And we're continuing our series called Charged, the books 1 and 2 Timothy.。
And we're right in the middle of it.。
So far, Paul has charged Timothy, who is a young pastor in Ephesus, to love.。
He's been charged to uphold truth, as we see in the next slide.。
We've been charged to pray.。
And then last week, we've seen how James has led us in the charge to lead.。
And today we are looking at chapter 4 of 1 Timothy, and Paul's charge to Timothy is to。
serve.。
And so we're going to look at a couple of things.。
To serve, we need to beware and to be watchful.。
To serve, we need to be training and be diligent.。
We need to be setting an example, and we also need to have devotion to the Word of God.。
And so the first thing that we see that Paul tells Timothy is that he needs to beware and。
watchful.。
What do we need to beware and watchful for?。
Well, there are those that will leave the faith, those who will depart, right?。
And some will, you know, be departing because of deceiving spirits.。
Some will depart because of false teaching.。
I'm going to show you a photo, the next slide here, and it's of my high school fellowship.。
I don't know if you guys see me.。
You guys see me?。
Anybody find me yet?。
You see me with these curtains, as James calls them?。
I'm on the top.。
Apparently, I like to climb things back then as well.。
This is my old high school fellowship.。
And you can guess, how many people do you think are left from that fellowship, from。
high school and stayed into our university fellowship?。
Actually, only three of us, right?。
And I actually did a study of why are our students leaving the Chinese churches in Toronto.。
And some left because of theological issues.。
They don't really agree with, you know, the theological issues of the church.。
Some had leadership issues.。
Oh, they didn't think, oh, they were treated fairly in the church.。
Some others had other priorities, right?。
Some, you know, think that school's more important or they got into work or something else had。
more priority.。
Some didn't come to church anymore because of loneliness or lack of relationships.。
People will leave the church.。
And Paul is warning Timothy, some people may depart.。
And some of the reasons that these people depart is because of deceiving spirits or。
false teachings.。
I remember just last year, one of the students was telling me about how he joined a Bible。
study on HKU campus.。
We see the next slide, a lovely partnership we had with ICF.。
Bonnie is in it.。
And we did some partnership and we connected with some of the students, had banners and。
handed out some goods.。
One of our students connected with a student and asked him to join a Bible study.。
And so he joined this Bible study thinking, yeah, it's good.。
You know, we're joining a Bible study on campus.。
Must be a good thing.。
And slowly as he got into the Bible and he came to several sessions, he found out that。
this study was actually a part of a cult, a cult that suggested that these people needed。
to work for their salvation, that their salvation was not by faith.。
And Paul is also warning Timothy of certain false teachings back then.。
As we look in the next slide, he tells Timothy that these people are insincere liars whose。
consciences are seared, who forbid marriage and require abstinence from food that God。
created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.。
And so firstly, Paul is talking about the ancient practice of branding.。
They used to brand criminals.。
They used to brand animals.。
As you see in the next slide, you know, they used to brand horses, you know, by searing,。
you know, maybe their skin.。
And so Paul is saying that these people have been seared in their conscience.。
And what does that mean, that they've been seared in their conscience?。
And that means that their nerve endings, the nerve endings in their consciences that used。
to tell them, oh, this is wrong, or this is what God likes, has now been burnt and that。
they are dead to the feelings towards God.。
Marriage is a mandate, a biblical mandate.。
And all things, Paul says all things are permissible, right?。
Not everything is beneficial, but all things are permissible.。
Paul also had, Peter also had a vision in which unclean foods were now not unclean.。
They were allowed to be eaten.。
And so Paul is saying that these people are going against the biblical mandate of marriage。
and that also foods are allowed to be eaten.。
And so that was one of the false teachings that they had back then, that Paul was warning。
Timothy about.。
And Paul goes on to say that everything created by God is good.。
And nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving.。
God created marriage, God created food to be good things that we are to enjoy and we。
are to partake in.。
And so Paul continues, and he also says that not only are we supposed to be aware of these。
things that are happening, those that will depart, those that will depart because they。
are deceived or false teachings that will occur.。
He also warns us to be watchful.。
This passage is like a chiastic system.。
Do you guys know what chiastic system is?。
It's like it's written in A, B, C, and then it reverses C, B, A.。
And so the first thing that Paul tells Timothy is to beware.。
And the last thing that Paul tells Timothy in this chapter is to be watchful.。
What is he to be watchful of?。
He's to be watchful of his life, of his doctrine, and to be persevering in his ministry.。
Paul wants Timothy to be ministerially self-aware, to examine and to guard his heart and his。
soul so that he's not a person that is just acting outwardly, right?。
But that he, his outward actions is matched by his inward desire to serve and to love。
God.。
And so he says in verse 16, "Keep a close watch on yourself and your teaching."。
So we need to, as servants of the Lord, as we are serving the Lord, we need to watch。
ourselves.。
Is our life in balance?。
Are we taking care of ourselves physically?。
Are we watching our emotional needs, our mental needs, and our spiritual needs?。
A lot of people get burnt out, right?。
Because of their serving too much or their giving too much, and they're not watching。
themselves.。
And Paul is telling Timothy, "You need to watch your life carefully."。
And he needs to also watch his doctrine, right?。
He just warned Paul in the beginning of the, of the scripture that he needs to watch of。
false teachings.。
And now Paul is watching, telling Timothy to watch of his own doctrine.。
We can't just give, we can't just give without taking care of ourselves.。
And we need to make sure that when we give, we are giving according to the doctrine that。
God is teaching in his word.。
So the first thing that Paul heeds Timothy is that he needs to beware and to be watchful.。
The second thing that Timothy is being warned of is to be training and to be diligent.。
What is he to be training in?。
He's to be training in godliness.。
And let's look at the verses that were just read, right?。
Godliness is valuable in every way.。
Maybe training is, has some value, but godliness is valuable in every way.。
Godliness is the path towards eternal life and happiness.。
This is the first real command he tells Timothy here, you know, train, you need to be training。
just like an athletic person is training for the Olympics.。
He needs to be training for godliness.。
I don't know if you've heard of the 10,000 hour rule.。
Has anybody heard of the 10,000 hour rule before in which you need to be training 10,000。
hours in order to master any skill?。
Obviously you need to be practicing in the right way, right?。
Not in the wrong way for 10,000 hours.。
So that means eight hours a day, five days a week, 44 weeks in a year.。
And eventually, hopefully you'll master that talent in guitar or, you know, being a doctor。
or architecture, or I don't know, what does JP do?。
JP does board games.。
You need to be doing that 10,000 hours in order to be able to master anything.。
And so we also need to be training in our godliness to be able to be servants of the。
Lord that he has called us to be.。
We need to be training.。
We need to be diligent.。
Paul tells Timothy in verse 10, for this, we end, for this end, we toil and we strive.。
Ministry is not always easy.。
Ministry can be hard sometimes, right?。
There can be tough, there can be tough soil.。
There can be tough times in which there are no fruit.。
And Paul is telling Timothy that he needs to labor, right?。
And there will be ups and downs of ministry.。
And we need to be aware of that.。
Paul is telling Timothy to be diligent, to be committed, to be engaged.。
Jesus was fully engaged and committed in his ministry when he was on earth.。
Paul was also fully committed.。
You know, he was beaten, he was stoned, he was kicked out, and yet he was still committed,。
so committed to the gospel.。
And Paul is telling Timothy to do the same thing.。
Be diligent, be committed, be engaged so that people will see your light and see the light。
of Christ.。
The third thing that Paul is telling Timothy as a servant of the Lord, that what he must。
do is to set an example.。
Now Paul first charged Timothy to come into ministry around 50 AD.。
And we know that because that's when, you know, Acts chapter 16, we see that.。
That's when Paul first enlisted Timothy as a teenager.。
And so when first Timothy was written, he was probably around 30 years old, which was。
around mid 60 AD.。
And so Paul was probably just around 30.。
And so imagine Paul telling Timothy to lead church, this church in Ephesus, and some of。
the surrounding churches as well.。
And he's only 30 years old.。
And so there's going to be people that are older than him, right?。
And so he's telling Timothy to set an example in your speech, in your conduct, in your love,。
in your faith, and in your purity.。
He tells, let's read verse 12 together in the next slide.。
Let no one despise you in your youth, but set an example for the believers in speech,。
in conduct, in love, in faith, and in purity.。
Until I come, devote yourself to public reading of scripture, exhortation, and teaching.。
Paul is telling Timothy, I support you in leading the church.。
So don't let anybody look down on you.。
That's what the NIV says, or in EIV here, ESV here, it says, don't let anyone despise。
you.。
Paul is giving Timothy a vote of confidence, right?。
Just like Pastor John gives us, you know, the pastoral team here, a vote of confidence。
to go and serve, right, us, Michelle and Pastor James to serve together.。
He's great at encouraging us.。
Paul is also telling Timothy, don't let anyone despise you because of your youth, because。
he has to teach against false teachings, right?。
And some of the wrong things that the people are doing at the church.。
And so he's giving Timothy a vote of confidence.。
He's telling Timothy that he needs to set an example in his speech, right?。
His speech is to be humble, not, you know, so commanding, always, you know, being aggressive,。
or it has to be seasoned with salt.。
He's telling Timothy that in his conduct, it has to be above reproach, that he has to。
be loving all people.。
He has to set an example in how much he has faith in God.。
And he has to set an example in his purity, in his integrity.。
I remember when I first went on a mission trip, it was to the Czech Republic.。
And I went with a bunch of people in my church.。
And I was actually the youngest person, all right?。
We went over to a small little town called Lito Měžice, and we went to teach English.。
We went to play sports with some of the high school teams there.。
And we were playing basketball against some of the high school teams.。
We were playing football against some of their football teams.。
And I was the youngest person, but I was also the most athletic person in our team.。
And so I had to lead our team, even though I was the youngest person, I was still in。
high school back then.。
I had to lead some of the older guys, let's partner together so that we can be a team,。
so that we could put up a fight against these well-trained high school students, high school。
Czech football and high school football and basketball team.。
And so I had to step up.。
And you know, I wasn't that confident back then.。
But over time, over a couple of those days, I had to grow in confidence.。
And people on my team were supporting me to go and lead us as we played against these。
other teams.。
And so Paul is telling Timothy that he needs to set an example.。
And so when we serve the Lord as well, we represent Christ.。
And we also need to set an example.。
The last thing that Paul is telling Timothy is that he needs to be devoting himself to。
the word of the Lord.。
Now Paul is telling him that he needs to have public reading of scripture.。
Back then, they used to read the scriptures out loud, right?。
They didn't have, we all have our technology back net right now, right?。
We have our phones, we have all these different versions of the vones of the scriptures on。
our phones.。
But back then, they didn't have the scriptures, it was in scrolls.。
And so reading the scriptures was really important.。
Jesus also read the scriptures out loud in the synagogue.。
So Paul is telling Timothy, he needs to focus on the word of the Lord.。
And when we're reading it, not only that, we need to also preach and teach so that people。
would understand what it means.。
And so when we're serving the Lord today, we need to make sure that what we are doing。
is ultimately preaching and teaching the word of God.。
And our foundation is the word of the Lord.。
And so Paul's charge to Timothy to serve comes with some responsibilities, as we see in the。
next slide, that we need to beware, beware of false teachings, beware of those who are。
deceiving.。
We need to be watchful of our own lives.。
We need to be watchful of our doctrine.。
Paul's charge to Timothy is that he needs to be training, just like an athletic competitor.。
He needs to be training in godliness.。
We need to be diligent in our serving.。
When we're serving, we need to be setting an example for our believers in speech, in。
life, in love, in faith, and in purity.。
We need to be devoting ourselves to the word of the Lord.。
The word of the Lord has to be our foundation in our service.。
The next slide shows us this saying, "The more we serve, the more we must reflect Christ."。
The more we serve, the more we must reflect Christ.。
Because Christ is the one who has authority.。
We represent him.。
We are his ambassadors.。
And so whether we are ambassadors in our usual service, whether we are clicking PowerPoint。
or to being on the worship team or to service leading, to preaching, we must reflect Christ。
in all that we do, especially when we are serving.。
And the more we serve, the more we must reflect Christ.。
In our society today, there are so many different people, right, that seek after money, that。
seek after power.。
But what Paul is charging Timothy and what he's charging us today is that we need to。
be godly men and godly women.。
Godly men and godly women must stand up and serve in our churches, in our societies, in。
our schools.。
Yes, you know, me, Michelle, James, John, we are called to be pastors full-time.。
And I believe that you are also a pastor to somebody, whether it's to your fellow students。
at school, that you are a pastor to the people around you at your workplace, whether it be。
your schools, your financial companies, your hospitals, your students that you're teaching,。
your architecture firms, your government places, you are a pastor to somebody.。
And Paul's charge to Timothy is the same charge to us today, that we need to serve.。
And in order to serve, we need to be godly men and godly women.。
And it doesn't mean that we'll always be perfect.。
I'm not perfect.。
You know, none of us here are perfect.。
But we need to be depending on the Holy Spirit to sanctify us, to cleanse us, to make us。
more like him.。
And so I'm going to end on two questions today.。
The first is, are you willing to serve?。
God has called each one of us to participate in this amazing body of Christ together.。
And it's not just for us to sit down and do nothing, not for 20% of the people to do 80%。
of the work.。
No, he wants each one of us to participate in the body of Christ.。
And he's not looking just for, you know, the older people to serve.。
No, he's looking for the younger people as well, to step up, to set an example, to become。
godly men and godly women.。
Are you willing to serve the Lord?。
And in what areas do we need to prepare ourselves in order to serve him more?。
Is it in the word of God, understanding the word of God more?。
Is it being more watchful and beware of false teachings?。
Is it that we need to send an example or be more diligent in our training to become godly?。
Are you willing to serve the Lord?。
And if you are, are you willing to train and to work to become a godly man, godly woman。
that God has called you to be?。
Let us pray together.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for this calling that you've given to Timothy to be a servant,。
to serve, to be diligent, to be training, to be watchful, to set an example.。
And I pray for us today as well.。
You have called us to serve wherever you have called us to, whether it's our schools, our。
homes, our companies, our workplaces.。
Prepare us, Lord, that we would be your light and your light would shine through us.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
(upbeat music)。
