- Good to see everyone.。
So good to see you all.。
Hope you're well.。
I say hope you are well because I know that these few months have been anything but easy,。
right?。
Anything but easy.。
As John mentioned, we began the year January 1st.。
He preached a new thing, a new season.。
And then we were really excited actually to go into the series on emotional health, thinking,。
"Wow, this is a great topic.。
It's a cool topic.。
It's a very trendy topic to talk about."。
But little did we know that we had to start that online.。
And then 15 weeks later, and today the 16th week, we're back.。
And we've been through the whole series on emotional health.。
We went through all the 7 IMs.。
And for some strange reason, other than God, we're back at emotional health again, and。
back with me sharing about it.。
But before I start, I just wanted to...。
I think everyone should give just a pat on your own backs, just to say, "Well done.。
You made it through these few months."。
It's really something.。
Actually, today I also wanted to just give a shout out to even just the pastoral team.。
It's something that I've really become more aware of in these recent months is actually。
for pastors and people who are in ministry, it's extra hard.。
When we're there to care for people who have been placed in our care, our flock, but when。
things are getting hard to the point where you almost can't even care for yourself.。
And so I wanted just to give a shout out to even the pastoral team here, to Bonnie, for。
all the work that she's been doing online.。
Just doing this stuff online is just...。
And of course, Pastor Michelle and Pastor John have gone through just a few months of。
just health or family issues and just all these challenges that no doubt all of us have。
faced.。
And just the fact that you guys are here, and especially John, just your leadership。
and just the season.。
Thank you for that.。
Of course, Johnny made it back.。
He's alive.。
He's real.。
I was beginning to think that he was a figment of my imagination.。
But of course, Johnny, he had to really go through a really tough few months in Thailand。
where he was just swimming and he looks Thai right now.。
But don't worry.。
Also thank you to you.。
I was praying for you every day that the Lord would judge you for being away.。
But seriously, I'll start really with a confession.。
The title of today's topic...。
I'm just going to quickly just try to see if this remote works so I'm not caught off.。
Brilliant, it does.。
Emotional health in light of the incarnation.。
John gave this topic and I'm just like, "Wow, what is this topic?。
Emotional health."。
And actually, I can confess to you, on the whole, I've been a fairly simple kind of guy.。
Keep me fed, keep me happy, keep me exercising, give me some sunshine.。
I'm okay.。
But I'll tell you, these few months, I think they nearly broke me.。
I think the burden of everything that went on these few months, waking up every day,。
looking at the news, looking at people tear themselves apart or just go and tear other。
countries apart, I couldn't get over it.。
If mental health is how you process your thoughts in your mind, emotional health is how you。
process your emotions.。
And for the first time ever, I felt as though I was going through a tunnel that I've never。
really been through before.。
I don't know if you felt this way.。
Because not only has it been just over three months since we've been in person, it's coming。
up to the mark where it's been three years since all the unrest of the city started.。
The city, this is really all I've ever known in Hong Kong in these last three and a half。
years.。
And someone was just sharing with me, "Oh, you know, in the summers, the barbecue pits。
by the beaches get really busy."。
And I'm like, "You know what?。
I don't think I've even been here when the barbecue pits have been open.。
I don't think I've ever seen anyone in the barbecue pits.。
I thought they were just for decoration."。
And I think to a certain degree, I think I found this challenging.。
And so today I wanted to share with you really just what I went through and how really in。
light of the incarnation, I managed to get through this.。
Because there's a gap.。
When you're talking about emotional health, for me, the issue was I can't process these。
emotions because it feels like there's a gap.。
Do you feel that?。
There's something missing.。
Every day you wake up, you just can't seem to get a hold of.。
It's funny.。
We spent this afternoon, Christina and the kids, they were doing a jigsaw puzzle.。
We got given two jigsaw puzzles over these last few months.。
One was a basketball player, Steph Curry, and the other was a footballer, Lionel Messi.。
And they spent the whole day doing the puzzle until...。
This is like every jigsaw puzzle person's worst nightmare.。
You do it all apart from one piece.。
And we couldn't find it.。
We still can't find it.。
And we were looking around everywhere in the house.。
And actually, I shared with them, actually, this was an example I was going to give because。
I think life is a jigsaw puzzle.。
And actually, we're on this search.。
Of course, these last few months, these last few years have been a puzzle for sure.。
One that no one can ever seem to solve.。
And yet we're all missing this piece.。
We're all missing this piece, but we can't seem to find it.。
And we definitely can't find it within ourselves.。
That's for sure.。
I don't know if you've spent any time searching into your own heart these last few months.。
I have, and I can't find the answer there.。
And then it's then when I started to realize that actually the answer isn't anything in。
this world.。
That gap.。
Emotional health gets challenged when our expectations and our reality aren't matching.。
We're hoping for this to happen.。
We're hoping for all these things and our plans to come to place, to pass, but yet they're。
not happening.。
And how does that make us feel?。
We struggle.。
We struggle to process those emotions.。
And then we try and scramble, we try and make the best of a bad situation, don't we?。
And then we end up just trying to fit pieces around.。
We fit pieces around, but there's always that one...。
Do you remember that little childhood toy where it's kind of like that little puzzle。
where you shift things, it's like a grid, and the plastic pieces that you keep shifting。
to try and complete the picture.。
But you've always got that one gap, because you need that gap to shift things, but there's。
always that one gap.。
And I was beginning to feel the same.。
And then I look at scripture and I see in Ecclesiastes 3 it says, "God plants eternity。
into the heart of man."。
And I was thinking, maybe that's the peace, that we're all created with this one little。
piece inside us that is missing, that only God can fulfill, eternity in the heart of。
man.。
John 17 3, Jesus says, "May they know his prayer before he died.。
May they have eternal life.。
What is eternal life?。
That they may know him."。
That is eternity, that we would know him and we're missing that piece.。
A couple of weeks ago I shared a paraphrase of C.S. Lewis' quote, which is, "If nothing。
in this world can satisfy us, then maybe there's that one piece of us that nothing in this。
world can satisfy, maybe it's because we weren't made for this world, that there is something。
else."。
And I see this, and I see John the Baptist, who amongst many other things, he was emotionally。
healthy.。
He said, "My joy is complete.。
My jigsaw puzzle is complete."。
How did John the Baptist, this crazy man, get so emotionally healthy?。
Because his eyes were always on something else.。
He would say, "Behold, the one who takes away the sin of the world.。
I must decrease, he must increase."。
It's all about him.。
When you look to somewhere else, beyond yourself, then you have a chance of finding that final。
missing piece.。
But we spend so much of our times looking inwards.。
I don't think we've ever been more narcissistic than we are now, and yet we are more sad,。
more depressed, suicidal than we've ever been.。
Surely that tells us that looking within is not the answer.。
We have to look beyond.。
We have to look up.。
So emotional health in light of the incarnation is where we start to look at Jesus.。
The incarnation is basically God becoming man, right?。
And we spend a lot of time looking at the divine element of Jesus, his divinity.。
He is God after all.。
But we forget that he is fully God, but also fully man.。
Not half God, half man.。
Fully God, but fully man, human.。
He was born, he grew in stature and wisdom.。
He was hungry, he was thirsty, he was tired, he died.。
These are all very human traits.。
And then I was thinking, well then, what is it about his humanity that can give us some。
insight into our emotional health?。
What is it about the incarnation that will allow us to see the way in getting healthy。
again?。
How to process our emotions in the right way?。
Jesus experienced all the same emotions and yet he was healthy.。
So how did he do that?。
And so today that's what we're going to look at.。
We're going to unpack what the incarnation is.。
When I was reflecting and praying on this, there's only really two things I felt as though。
the incarnation was really showing us, at least specific to this topic.。
And this is this.。
Through the incarnation, I believe that Jesus was wanting to tell us, show us, that he knows.。
He knows.。
He knows what we're going through.。
He knows our feelings.。
He knows our angers.。
He knows our anxieties.。
He knows our worries.。
Jesus knows.。
That's the first thing I think the incarnation is showing us.。
And the second thing, he wants us to know him.。
So one, he knows us, and the second is that he wants us to know him.。
Is that okay?。
I'm just going to unpack those two points.。
So the first point really is this.。
Through the incarnation, we find out that Jesus is telling us that he knows us.。
He's identifying with us so we can know that he knows.。
God Almighty himself.。
From Genesis, "In the beginning was the Word."。
In the beginning of John.。
In the beginning was the Word.。
And then eventually, John 14, it says, "And the Word became flesh and dwelt among men."。
The creator of everything becomes a creature.。
The creator of everything becomes a creature.。
That word there, "Word," it actually means, is "logos," which means "eternal word."。
So this word that was there at the beginning, the eternal one, becomes temporal.。
The creator becomes a creature.。
The eternal one becomes a temporal.。
Pause.。
Do we get that?。
That God himself became man.。
I think we take that, I think I take that for granted sometimes.。
"Oh, Jesus, he became a man."。
God himself became a man.。
And many of you know I'm a Disney fan.。
And I'm just going straight to segue there really nicely.。
One of my favorite films, I have many favorite films.。
Never believe a pastor when they say, "This is my favorite Bible verse," because we have。
many.。
And don't believe me when I say it's my favorite Disney film.。
But one film is called "Brave."。
Has anyone watched "Brave?"。
Great film about a little ginger Scottish girl, Merida.。
And she's having this argument.。
She just has a fractured relationship with her mum, and all she wants is her mum to see。
her perspective.。
And then, of course, many things happen in the film.。
And her mum turns into a bear.。
Like human turns into a bear.。
And then she ends up, and of course the whole story ends up, they reconcile because they。
gain a new perspective.。
She knows, she understands.。
Another one of my favorite Disney films of all time is completely underrated.。
It's called "Brother Bear."。
Has anyone seen "Brother Bear?"。
You see, that's a real disappointment because it really is low-key underrated.。
Okay, actually, maybe I watched it many years ago.。
But it is really quite good.。
Again, the same.。
This pack of hunters, this family of hunters, and one of the characters, Kenai, they're。
out in the woods hunting.。
And then, unfortunately, one of their brothers gets killed.。
And then Kenai is filled with just anger and wants to avenge the death of his brother and。
goes after this bear.。
Again, magical story happens.。
Kenai himself turns into a bear.。
And then he ends up befriending one of the bears.。
And there she ends up killing this little bear's mother.。
And it's, again, bear with me.。
It's a crazy story.。
But through that journey of stepping into some of the shoes, they got to experience。
and know that angle.。
Now, of course, I'm not relating and associating God Almighty himself with a Disney film necessarily.。
But it gives us a little glimpse that when he was God and became man, it allowed him。
an insight that actually really comforts us.。
And that is that he knows.。
That through the incarnation, we find out that Jesus himself knows.。
He knows.。
Hebrews 2, verse 17 says this, "Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in every。
respect."。
So God Almighty ends up becoming a human with all these human desires and all these human。
needs.。
He has to go to the toilet.。
He has to feed himself.。
He has to sleep.。
He was made like us in every respect.。
Can you just imagine the humility that Jesus had to be willing to put himself through this?。
The creator signing up to be a creature.。
The eternal one signing up to something that has a sell-by date.。
That was the humility of Christ.。
The Philippians, we see this.。
In Philippians 2, he says, "Do nothing our selfish ambition will conceive.。
In humility, consider others more significant than yourselves.。
That each of you look not only to his own interest, but to the interest of others.。
Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus."。
Jesus did this.。
He considered us more significant than themselves.。
He looked at our interests, and he was the one that was God that became flesh so that。
he could identify with us.。
Think of an adult who talks to a kid, an adult who loves children.。
How do they talk to this child?。
They would scoop down, right?。
Sometimes even crouch down like this.。
To get to the same level of the child, to show that child, "I see things from your perspective.。
I care about what you see and what you're thinking."。
That's what God Almighty did for us.。
Through the incarnation, we find out that he knows.。
And I hope that brings some comfort for you to start with today.。
If you're someone just like me that has gone through struggles with emotional health, one。
of the biggest challenges with emotional health is feelings that no one knows, right?。
That you're on your own.。
Be encouraged then that Jesus had that same feeling.。
Psalm 22 says, "God, why have you forsaken me?。
Why have you turned your back on me?。
Do you even know?"。
So the first thing I'd like to encourage you with is if you are going through challenges。
in your emotional health, and I truly believe all of us are to a certain level.。
There is no way you get through these three years, at the very least, without some kind。
of trauma that is lying underneath.。
And so if you are, the first thing that we can learn from the incarnation is Jesus knows.。
But I don't know whether you know that he knows.。
We treat him as such a distant God sometimes, right?。
Okay, final film reference.。
One of my favorite films of all time, serious, not joking, is Good Will Hunting.。
Anyone watch Good Will Hunting?。
So good.。
It shows your age, but so good.。
It's about this genius called Will, who lots of trauma, lots of baggage.。
And there's this one scene with Robin Williams, and it says, "Matt Damon is Will."。
And there's just one scene with Robin Williams, who's a psychology professor in a college,。
and he just counsels him.。
And there's this one scene where, of course, the doctor sees all the struggle, and Will。
just kind of has this just very smart kind of like surface image that he has.。
But then there's one bit where just the doctor just hones in and say, "Look, it's not your。
fault."。
And then Will's like, "I know, I know, I know, I know.。
It's not my fault."。
He's like, "No, it's not your fault."。
And then he proceeds for the next few minutes just repeating that.。
It's not your fault, it's not your fault.。
And it's a really touching scene, because finally he cracks Will in a good way, because。
he gets through to him.。
But I think sometimes for us, we treat Jesus so far, he's just there, and he's God Almighty,。
he was on the cross, he died, oh, boo-hoo.。
And then he rises again, woo-hoo, he rises again.。
But we don't relate to him personally.。
But through the incarnation, we see that Jesus is identifying with us.。
He's crouching down to our level, and he's saying, "I know.。
I know what you've been through.。
I know what you're going through.。
I know what your worries are.。
Cast your anxieties onto me, because I care for you.。
I know.。
I think like you in every respect, so I know."。
I think that's a powerful message.。
I think that's the one that we need to constantly remind ourselves, that Jesus Christ himself,。
he knows.。
And final verse here, you've heard me share this, it's one of, again, Hebrews 4:15, "For。
we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, because。
he knows, because he identifies with us."。
And I pray this next prayer very often, Psalm 139, "Search my heart, O God, test my thoughts,。
see if there's any offensive way in me."。
And I don't know if you pray this prayer.。
It's a really helpful way for me to kind of just open myself up to the Lord and just surrender.。
And I was praying this prayer in these few months.。
I was like, "God, there's something in me that's just not right.。
There's a piece that's missing.。
I'm just struggling with all of this.。
I'm waking up, and I'm just feeling I don't want to even get out of bed.。
I don't know what this is.。
What is it?。
Just search me, Lord.。
Is there anything that is in me that is offensive?"。
And then I came across, well, I didn't come across, I suddenly was reminded of the beginning。
of this chapter that I thought, "Wait, wait a minute."。
So the end of the chapter is this verse, "Search me, O God."。
But the beginning is this, is, "O Lord, you have searched me and known me.。
You know when I sit up and when I rise up.。
You discern my thoughts."。
So that bit at the end seems a little bit strange.。
Does it not?。
The whole Psalm 139 is, "Lord, you've seen me.。
You searched me.。
You know when I rise.。
You know when I go to sleep.。
You know everything."。
And certainly at the end, you say, "Lord, search me."。
Wait, you already...。
But then there's a reminder that that little bit at the end has nothing to do with whether。
God knows or not.。
It's to do with us.。
It's to do with us surrendering to Him because He already knows.。
Would we just admit that?。
Would we be open to that?。
Would we accept?。
Would we embrace it?。
So before I go on, I actually wanted just to pause even just for two minutes here and。
allow all of us just to spend a moment just to reflect on this.。
So actually, if you would allow me to just lead you in this little bit, invite you just。
even just to close your eyes.。
Just for a moment, just for a couple minutes.。
Don't worry, I'll still be here when you open your eyes.。
I want to invite all of us just to reflect on the last few months, the last few years,。
even the last decade, whatever it may be for yourself.。
Reflect over every battle that's happened in your own mind, with your own family, at。
work, in this city.。
Reflect on every blessing that you've had, all the good things you've been trying so。
hard just to keep going, keep your head up, be strong for your family.。
But do you know that Jesus knows?。
Have you been hurting secretly away from Him, thinking that actually He doesn't know, that。
maybe you're too embarrassed or ashamed of the things that you're going through in your。
own mind, but actually today the message for you is whatever you're going through, whatever。
grief that you are holding onto or experiencing, whatever trauma that you have experienced,。
Jesus knows.。
And I want to just read that one 39 to you.。
And I pray that the Holy Spirit would just allow that truth to wash over your heart.。
Wash over how you feel about yourself.。
Wash over how you're even feeling about this city.。
Psalm 139, a Psalm of David.。
"O Lord, you have searched me and known me.。
You know when I sit down and when I rise up.。
You discern my thoughts from afar.。
You search out my path and my lying down.。
And I'm acquainted with all my ways.。
Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it all together.。
You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me.。
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me.。
It is high.。
I cannot attain it.。
Where shall I go from your spirit?。
Or where shall I flee from your presence?。
If I ascend to heaven, you are there.。
If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there.。
If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there,。
your hand shall lead me and your right hand shall hold me.。
If I say, 'Surely the darkness shall cover me and the light about me be night.'。
Even the darkness is not dark to you.。
The night is bright as day.。
For darkness is as light with you.。
For you formed my inward parts.。
You knitted me together in my mother's womb.。
I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.。
Wonderful are your works.。
My soul knows it very well.。
My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in。
the depths of the earth.。
Your eyes saw my unformed substance.。
In your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me when as yet。
there was none of them.。
How precious to me are your thoughts, O God.。
How vast is the sum of them.。
If I would count them, they are more than the sand.。
I awake and I am still with you.。
Search me, O God, and know my heart.。
Try me and know my thoughts.。
See if there be any grievous way in me and lead me in the way everlasting.。
This is the word of the Lord.。
Thank you everyone.。
I encourage us to spend time allowing the truth of Scripture to wash over our minds。
and our hearts during a time like this.。
Knowing that Jesus identified with us and He knows.。
And if we would allow Him, if we would open ourselves up to Him, He would lead us to the。
way everlasting.。
What is that way?。
What is that eternity?。
Knowing Him.。
And here's the second point.。
I've only got two today, so bear with me.。
Not only does He identify with us to show us that He knows, the second is He also thinks。
that isn't enough.。
Just because we get to know that, "Oh, God Almighty knows our troubles," that's not enough.。
That won't help us solve our problems until we realise who He is.。
So the second part of the incarnation is that He is revealing Himself to us so that we can。
know Him.。
Because when we realise who He is, our problems suddenly get smaller.。
And we realise how big He is, how mighty He is, and suddenly the challenges that we face,。
they just shrink.。
They just get smaller.。
In Mark 4, there's this scene where Jesus has done His teaching and then He says, "Guys,。
let's go to the other side of the lake."。
Do we know this?。
And then He said, "Let's go to the other side of the lake."。
But He's setting them up because He knows a storm is coming.。
So they get into the lake and they go all in, the disciples who are obviously very good。
with boats, they're used to all this.。
They get in the boat, Jesus takes a nap because He's about to show them something.。
He's about to reveal Himself to them.。
What happens?。
A big storm happens.。
A big storm happens and then they're panicking.。
People who usually know how to survive on the water suddenly are panicking.。
They go to Him and say, "Teacher, what are you doing?。
Do you not care about us?。
We're going to die.。
We are going to die.。
Do you not care?"。
And so then He wakes up and then He says, "Peace, be still."。
He rebukes the wind and the waves and they just calm down completely.。
What's that story about?。
What did Jesus, why did Jesus lead them into that lake to show them this?。
Was it just that, "Oh, Jesus, God Almighty will calm every one of your storms if you。
would come to Him."。
Is it that?。
Is it simply just, "Hey, we invite Jesus into our lives, into our boat.。
He will be our genie that will zap away all the storms and He would just take them all。
away."。
That's not what that story was really about.。
The story was simply to show, because if it was just to avoid storms, He could have just。
avoided not taking them to the lake.。
Right?。
That would have been a much easier way.。
"Hey, there's going to be a storm there.。
I know because of God.。
So hey, let's go this way."。
No, that wasn't it.。
So it wasn't just about the storm, getting them out of the storm.。
What was it about then?。
It was about, "I am the one who can calm any storm, that I have the power to do this.。
Just know me.。
Keep your eyes on me rather than on the storm because I am bigger than any of those things."。
So on one hand, the incarnation just shows us humility, this gentleness about Jesus,。
that He's willing to come down to our level.。
But the second part of the incarnation is that He's revealing Himself to us in all His。
glory and through that we get to see who He is.。
And once we realize who He is, our storms become nothing.。
Does that make sense?。
That is what Jesus is doing.。
And if we go back to those passages, that first one, oh, before that, Jesus we know。
here is God Himself.。
He is the radiance of God.。
He is the exact imprint of His nature.。
He is God Himself.。
Colossians 1.15 says this, "He is the image of the invisible God."。
God, knowing that we mortal beings do not understand, cannot understand Him, gives us。
a visual aid.。
He gives us Jesus Himself.。
He says, "Hey, you're going to really struggle with this because my thoughts and my ways。
are so much higher than ours.。
I'm invisible.。
You don't get it.。
Here's something that you do understand.。
Here is a man.。
You get that."。
And then He's actually God and He's revealing Himself.。
And what does it say?。
"The Word became flesh and dwelt among us, but more."。
And now through this Word that became flesh, we have seen His glory, all the glory, and。
full of grace and truth.。
So He's revealing Himself to us.。
As He is coming and stepping down from heaven into earth, He's showing us that He is filled。
with grace and truth.。
Of course, we know lots of descriptions of God in the Bible, right?。
Maybe my favourite is 1 Corinthians 13, which is read at many weddings, many funerals.。
Love is patient, love is kind.。
For me, that represents God because God is love.。
So those are great traits of God that we see.。
Yeah, and at least specifically in this passage, "The Word that became flesh dwelt among us。
so that we have seen His glory, filled with grace and truth."。
What do grace and truth really mean?。
We always hear the words grace and truth.。
What do they mean?。
Grace and truth in the Hebrew, in their original, the root of it really means unfailing love.。
Grace means unfailing love and truth means this faithfulness.。
Let's break down each word a little bit just so we know.。
Of course, we hear grace all the time, it's this undeserved favour that we get from God, right?。
Grace sometimes is described as getting something that we don't deserve.。
That's grace.。
It's amazing.。
So that's grace.。
It is getting something that we don't deserve.。
It's this favour that we get from the Lord.。
And we see examples of Jesus giving grace everywhere in the Bible, wherever He's walking.。
He goes to a wedding and He turns water into wine, that's grace.。
When He sees a lame man, that lame man begins to walk.。
A blind man gets to see.。
A bleeding woman has her bleeding stopped.。
That is all an example of God's grace because it's Him giving us something that we don't deserve.。
So when Jesus is filled with grace, He's filled with compassion, He is slow to anger.。
He needs you to know, He doesn't need you, He wants you to know this about Him.。
As you struggle with your mental health, as you struggle with your emotional health,。
He is filled with grace and truth.。
When you don't deserve it, when you are feeling the most low, He is right there.。
He knows and He wants you to know Him, that He is filled with grace and truth.。
Second word, truth.。
The root of that word is reliability because truth is trust.。
Can you trust in something?。
Is it reliable?。
Does it have your back?。
Jesus is filled with grace and truth because He has your back, you can rest assured.。
You don't need to be anxious because when He says something, it happens.。
We see that, right?。
There's some people who say, "Hey, I'll be there, I'll do that for you."。
And of course, they never come through, they won't do it for you.。
But when God does it, He does it because you know the moment He says it, it happens.。
Let there be light.。
So God is good for His word.。
He's a promise keeper.。
He's a covenant keeper.。
And He wants you to know that about Him, especially as you go through valleys, especially as you。
go through dark times, that He needs you to know that He has got your back.。
That is even more important than us knowing that He knows what we're going through because。
we need to know who He is.。
And He will allow storms to happen into your life.。
He will allow these things to happen and He will continue.。
And I don't think they're going to stop until He comes back.。
But we as believers need to hold on to that, that Jesus, through His incarnation, revealed。
Himself to be filled with grace and truth, telling you that He has got your back.。
Psalm 23 has this just beautiful image.。
"Lord is my shepherd, I lie beside still waters, and chilling and napping, I trust in Him."。
Verse 3, "And He leads me in paths of righteousness for His name's sake."。
Don't really know what that means.。
It just means He leads me on the right path.。
It's so nice and it's all for Him.。
That's verse 3.。
What's verse 4?。
"Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death."。
Wait, you just said that you're going to lead me down the right path and now you've led。
me down into the valley of the shadow of death.。
"But I will not fear, for He is with me.。
His righteousness staff, they comfort me."。
So Jesus allows us to go through storms.。
Jesus allows us to go through the valleys of the shadow of death.。
But He wants us to not only know what He knows about us, but that we need to know Him.。
We need to cling on to Him.。
That He is the one who's true and that He is the one who has our back.。
And it's the same thing in the Hebrews verse.。
Oh, I just did something.。
Did I just do something?。
Huh?。
Wow.。
I think the Lord is telling me to finish up soon.。
Okay.。
Okay.。
He's telling me that I need Him.。
Okay, I'm going to finish this very soon.。
Can we go back?。
Oh, yeah.。
Oh, no, no, stop, stop, stop.。
There.。
Okay.。
Five, ten minutes, maybe, max.。
Done.。
Okay.。
So not only is He filled with grace and truth, this passage in Hebrews says, "Therefore,。
He had to make like His brothers in every way."。
So He knows who we are.。
So He knows what we're going through.。
He identifies, He feels, He sees, He sympathizes and empathizes.。
So He might become a merciful and faithful high priest.。
So not only is He filled with grace and truth, He's also merciful and faithful.。
If grace is getting something that we don't deserve, mercy is the other side of that coin,。
which is holding back something that we do deserve.。
Judgment, punishment.。
He's showing us mercy.。
We deserve that, but He's going to hold back.。
He's going to show us mercy.。
Got that?。
So grace is getting something that we don't deserve, all this favor.。
Grace and mercy, two sides of the same coin.。
What is that coin?。
Love.。
And so through the incarnation, we get to see that Jesus is a merciful.。
And again, faithful is the same as the word truth.。
He's reliable.。
He's good for it.。
When He says it will happen, it will happen.。
When He says He's got your back, it will.。
When He says He will be with you till the end of the age, He will be with you till the。
end of the age.。
Sit tight because it's not going to be good.。
Don't lose heart.。
This world, you will have trouble.。
Take heart.。
But I will be with you and I've overcome the world.。
He is good for it.。
I don't know about you, but that helps me.。
That helps me as I sit there wallowing in my own pity and everything.。
I force my eyes back onto Jesus, seeing that He is the one that fulfills His promises,。
that this is not the end of the story, that cheesy quote, "Everything will be all right。
in the end, and if it's not all right, it's not the end."。
And I keep my eyes on that because He's good for it, because He's filled with grace and。
truth.。
He's merciful and faithful.。
But how do we know that?。
How do we know He's got our backs?。
How do we know that He is good for His word, other than of course that He spoke the universe。
into existence?。
We also know, because the final point which I'm going to squeeze in, I promised you two,。
but really you're getting more than you paid for here, is not only does He identify with。
us, not only does He reveal Himself to us, we know that He can be relied on.。
We know that He can be trusted because He also suffered for us.。
He suffered for us on our behalf so that we could be with Him.。
And that is why we know He has our backs.。
That is why we know we can cling on to the very end, because He's the high priest.。
He's the merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation。
for the sins of the people, because He Himself has suffered when tempted, He's able to help。
those who are being tempted.。
Just take you back a little bit to the Old Testament here.。
The high priest in the Old Testament would be someone who stands between God and the。
people.。
And basically knowing that people are messed up, that they always anger God because they're。
always doing stupid things, that the high priest's job was to offer regular sacrifices。
to appease the wrath of God, to basically reconcile, to be atoned for the sins.。
What does the word atonement mean?。
At one.。
It's reconciling so that two parties can be at one, reconciled together.。
Does that make sense?。
And so that's what a high priest would do in the Old Testament, offer regular animal。
sacrifices so that God and His people can be at one, atoned.。
But Jesus Himself now is the high priest in the New Testament.。
He is merciful and faithful.。
He knows everything you're going through because He's gone through it.。
And He is now your high priest.。
And instead of an animal sacrifice, He offers Himself.。
And He suffered for us so that we could be with Him.。
That is how we know He's got our backs.。
Because He's been through the tunnel.。
He's been through the tunnel and He's been forced to pick Himself or God.。
He knows what it's like to have to pick Himself off the ground when He's sweating blood and。
look to God and still force Himself to say, "God, Your will be done, not mine."。
He knows, as the scripture says, Hebrews 4 says, "He's been tempted in every way."。
Now this isn't saying that Jesus has experienced every single temptation known to man.。
I don't know whether He's stood outside a KFC while He's been on a diet before where。
He's had to kind of restrain Himself from fried chicken.。
He hasn't done, He hasn't faced every single sin, every single temptation.。
That's not what it's saying.。
But what that means, what that phrase means is that it's representing, it's symbolising。
the unwavering firmness and faithfulness that Jesus had towards God.。
But what is sin?。
What is temptation?。
It's basically choosing anything but God, right?。
But Jesus went right to the very end and He got to choose Himself and save Himself or。
to obey the Father.。
And so when He has been tempted by everything, He has suffered and when He was tempted, that。
is what it was.。
And in that moment, in that garden of Gethsemane, on that cross, He had a struggle, but then。
He chose God.。
With you and I in mind, He chose God.。
The last things He thought He'd say was, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they。
do."。
That is why we know that He has got our backs.。
That is why we know that whatever we're going through in our emotional health, whatever。
tunnel we're going through, however far the end of the tunnel looks, we can know that。
not only does He know, but His desire is for us to know Him and that He will be there at。
the very end.。
That is it.。
Because of that, we get to draw near to the throne of grace with confidence.。
That we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.。
And He knows that we are in a time of need.。
But whatever we're going through, we don't have a high priest who doesn't sympathise。
with our weaknesses.。
How good are we at coming to Jesus, to His throne, with all our shame, with all our mistakes,。
with confidence?。
Because if we do, we will find the grace that we need and the mercy that we need.。
Why do we know that?。
Because He did what we couldn't do so that we could have what we could never have had.。
In Jesus, we gain everything.。
We get to live life to the full.。
We get to be healthy again.。
And one day He will come back and He will transform our lowly body to be like His glorious。
body.。
But until then, there is a peace.。
There is.。
There's nothing we can do about it.。
But let's cling on to the incarnation.。
Let's cling on to what happened when the Word that was there at the beginning became flesh。
and dwelt among us.。
What that shows us, what that affirms in us is what we're going through.。
And let us find that grace and mercy and help in our time of need.。
Let us open ourselves up now as we worship in response.。
And let's declare, "Lord, I need you."。
Lord, I need you.。
Let's pray.。
Lord, I need you.。
Lord, I need you.。
Lord, I need you.。
Lord, I need you.。
Lord, I need you.。
Lord, I need you.。
Lord, I need you.。
Jesus, we come before you now with confidence, well, with as much confidence as we can muster,。
to your throne of grace.。
And we open up our hearts to you, where we know where we will be met with mercy.。
We will find grace to help us in our time of need.。
Jesus, we thank you that you were the word that became flesh, that you dwelt among us,。
and that we get to see your glory filled with grace and truth.。
We thank you that you know every single one of our challenges, that you know that we walk。
through a valley of the shadow of death, that we are in a storm even right now, even within。
ourselves.。
And yet you, Lord, are with us.。
You calm the storms.。
Your rod and your staff, they comfort us, they bring comfort.。
So I just want to spend a bit of time now just to pray for any of our brothers and sisters。
here.。
We've been struggling with emotional health.。
If that is you, I just invite you now just to open up your hands, just open up your heart,。
even just physically, just open up your palms and accept the invitation the Lord has when。
he says, "Come to me, all who are weary," recognizing that he knows, he knows what you're。
worried about.。
He knows what the struggles are that you're facing.。
He knows that you don't know what tomorrow holds.。
But do you know that he holds tomorrow?。
Do you know that he still sits on his throne?。
Not any of the world leaders, Jesus sits on the throne.。
Do you know that?。
And that he is with you, that he is the light in your salvation, he is the stronghold of。
your life, that surely his goodness and mercy will follow you all the days of your life,。
even when you don't feel it.。
So would you turn your eyes to him?。
Would you look upon the goodness of the Lord?。
Would you wait for him?。
Would you be strong?。
Would you let your heart take courage and wait for him?。
And my God will supply every need of yours according to the riches of his glory in Christ。
Jesus, forever and ever.。
Amen.。
