(man speaking off mic)。
- Up there, right?。
- Is that it?。
- Yeah, I'll try to look there sometime.。
(laughing)。
- All right, let's do this.。
(guitar playing)。
(man speaking off mic)。
- Does it help, like, when you're like,。
right on top of like, when it's like,。
when it's in and out,。
'cause you can just like, play towards that.。
(man speaking off mic)。
- Well, I have to come on top of it.。
- We got the countdown.。
Do you want me to sit down or stand up?。
Does that make any difference?。
Bonnie?。
Do you want me to stand up and welcome him or sit down?。
(guitar playing)。
(man speaking off mic)。
(guitar playing)。
(man speaking off mic)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
(guitar playing)。
- Good evening and welcome to KFCI Online.。
Maybe this is not the way。
that we would have anticipated this evening,。
but can I just encourage you。
that the Holy Spirit is here with us。
and the same Holy Spirit that is here with us tonight。
is with you in your home.。
I just wanna encourage you to enter into the fullness。
of what God is doing tonight。
from the comfort of your home.。
Maybe get yourself a coffee,。
make yourself comfortable now,。
and join in as we worship together.。
The words will be on the screen.。
Let's sing this together.。
King of Kings.。
♪ In the darkness ♪。
♪ In the darkness we were waiting ♪。
♪ Without hope and without light ♪。
♪ 'Til from heaven you came running ♪。
♪ There was mercy in your eyes ♪。
♪ To fulfill the law and prophets ♪。
♪ To a virgin came the word ♪。
♪ From a throne of endless glory ♪。
♪ To a cradle in the dirt ♪。
Let's sing praise the Father.。
♪ And praise the Father ♪。
♪ Praise the Son ♪。
♪ Praise the Spirit ♪。
♪ Three in one ♪。
♪ God of glory ♪。
♪ Majesty ♪。
♪ Praise forever to the King of Kings ♪。
To reveal.。
♪ To reveal the kingdom coming ♪。
♪ And to reconcile the lost ♪。
♪ To redeem the whole creation ♪。
♪ You did not spice the cross ♪。
♪ For in even in your suffering ♪。
♪ You sought to the other side ♪。
♪ Knowing this was our salvation ♪。
♪ Jesus for our sake you died ♪。
♪ Praise the Father ♪。
♪ Praise the Son ♪。
♪ Praise the Spirit ♪。
♪ Three in one ♪。
♪ God of glory ♪。
♪ Majesty ♪。
♪ Praise forever to the King of Kings ♪。
♪ And the morning that you rose ♪。
♪ All of heaven held its breath ♪。
♪ Until the stone was moved for good ♪。
♪ For the Lamb had conquered death ♪。
♪ And the dead rose from their tombs ♪。
♪ And the angels stood in awe ♪。
♪ For the songs of all who'd come ♪。
♪ To the Father are restored ♪。
♪ Then the church of Christ was born ♪。
♪ Then the Spirit lit the flame ♪。
♪ For this gospel truth of hope ♪。
♪ He shall not kneel, he shall not fade ♪。
♪ By his blood and in his name ♪。
♪ In his freedom I am free ♪。
♪ By the blood of Jesus Christ ♪。
♪ Who has resurrected me ♪。
♪ Praise the Father ♪。
♪ Praise the Father ♪。
♪ Praise the Son ♪。
♪ Praise the Spirit ♪。
♪ Three in one ♪。
♪ God of glory ♪。
♪ Majesty ♪。
♪ Praise forever to the King of Kings ♪。
Let's sing again, praise.。
♪ Praise the Father ♪。
♪ Praise the Son ♪。
♪ Praise the Spirit ♪。
♪ Three in one ♪。
♪ God of glory ♪。
♪ Majesty ♪。
♪ Praise forever to the King of Kings ♪。
♪ Praise forever to the King of Kings ♪。
Let's pray together.。
Dear God, we lift up our city to you.。
We lift up all of these unknown,。
all the fears that we have to you.。
Because we know that you are a Lord who is victorious.。
We know that in this world we'll have tribulation,。
but we can take heart because you have overcome the world.。
And this is the victory that has overcome the world,。
our faith.。
And who is that overcomes the world。
except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God.。
So God, we thank you that with your Son,。
we are now victorious and we can sing that.。
Even if we don't know the future,。
we know that you're before and you're behind us.。
And though our fight, we might not see immediately。
how it will end, but we know that it will end with you。
reigning victorious over every obstacle that there is.。
Let's sing together,。
our fight.。
♪ Our fight is with weapons unseen ♪。
♪ Your enemies crash to their knees ♪。
♪ As we rise up and worship ♪。
♪ When trials unleash like a flood ♪。
♪ The battle belongs to our God ♪。
♪ As we cry out and worship ♪。
The victory is yours.。
♪ The victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
What hell.。
♪ What hell meant to break me has failed ♪。
♪ Now nothing will silence my praise ♪。
♪ As we cry out and worship ♪。
♪ The walls of the prison will shake ♪。
♪ The chain breaking can't rise to save ♪。
♪ As we cry out and worship ♪。
♪ Whoa ♪。
♪ The victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
♪ Your name's unshaken Lord ♪。
Let's sing you roar like thunder.。
♪ You roar like thunder ♪。
♪ Nothing can take a God oh powerful ♪。
♪ Oh powerful ♪。
♪ We pull down heaven ♪。
♪ With shouts of praise ♪。
♪ God oh powerful ♪。
♪ Oh powerful ♪。
♪ You roar like thunder ♪。
♪ Nothing can take a God oh powerful ♪。
♪ Oh powerful ♪。
♪ You pull down heaven ♪。
♪ With shouts of praise ♪。
♪ God oh powerful ♪。
♪ Oh powerful ♪。
♪ You roar like thunder ♪。
♪ Nothing can take a God oh powerful ♪。
♪ Oh powerful ♪。
♪ We pull down heaven ♪。
♪ With shouts of praise ♪。
♪ God oh powerful ♪。
♪ Oh powerful ♪。
♪ The victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
♪ You roar like thunder ♪。
♪ Nothing can take a God oh powerful ♪。
♪ Oh powerful ♪。
♪ We pull down heaven ♪。
♪ With shouts of praise ♪。
♪ God oh powerful ♪。
♪ Oh powerful ♪。
♪ The victory is yours ♪。
♪ You're riding on the storm ♪。
♪ Your name is unfailing ♪。
♪ Though kingdoms rise and fall ♪。
♪ Your throne withstands it all ♪。
♪ Your name is unshaken ♪。
- So a big welcome to those of you。
who may have joined us since the service started.。
Welcome to KFC Online.。
It's great to have you with us.。
And we haven't much in terms of notices tonight,。
but what we can tell you is that next Saturday the 24th,。
we will also be online and live streaming.。
And obviously what we'll do is we'll keep you posted,。
we'll keep you in touch with developments here.。
Basically everything this week is happening online,。
whether it be Bridge or Summer College Program,。
and indeed our service next Saturday.。
Please stay safe, won't you?。
And now we're gonna pray for Hong Kong.。
And I'm gonna ask Pastor Johnny to come and to pray for us。
and to introduce Michelle.。
- Thank you, Pastor John.。
Let's take some time to just quiet our hearts。
and come before God and ask him for our help.。
That we could pray for our city and pray for Hong Kong.。
Lord, we come before you and we know。
that there is this third wave in Hong Kong right now,。
that the infections are getting worse and worse,。
but we believe that God, you are with us,。
that you are sovereign.。
Lord, we ask that you would be with the medical staff。
and the team in the hospitals,。
that you would give them wisdom。
to know how to take care of the patients,。
you'd give them energy,。
give them knowledge of the virus and how to help people.。
Lord, I pray that you give our leaders in this city。
wisdom to know how to contain it,。
the rules and the regulations that will follow。
to help slow the curve down.。
Lord, we pray for the people in this city, Father,。
that they would be able to, yeah,。
be vigilant to wash our hands and keep our masks on。
and stay at home so that we can prevent this virus。
from getting worse and worse.。
Lord, amongst, even though all these things are happening。
in the midst of this storm,。
we still want to praise you and worship you,。
that you are God over this virus,。
you're God over our city,。
you're God over our hearts.。
And we want to acknowledge that you are God, Father.。
And Lord, we want to pray for Michelle。
as she comes up and speaks your word.。
Lord, empower her through the Holy Spirit.。
Bless her that the words that comes out。
will not go back void, Father, according to your word.。
Bless us, Lord, tonight as we listen to your word。
in Christ's name we pray, amen.。
- Good evening, everyone.。
Good evening, everyone.。
It's so glad, I'm so glad to be here。
to be speaking with you tonight.。
Now, I just want to show you this.。
I was gonna wear this tonight。
when you were all here to prevent the virus from spreading,。
but apparently you are now one screen away,。
so this will not be needed.。
I will just put this on the side.。
This is a situation where we're least expected,。
but we're glad that everybody is taking precautions.。
So I'm really glad tonight to be speaking with you。
on a message on how we can partner with God.。
Now, I don't know about you,。
but I've been facing problems every now and then,。
and I think it's just part of life。
that we have problems and troubles.。
But the thing is, how is it that we can partner with God。
so that he can help us in those situations?。
And for some of us, we might be going through a hard time。
because we have a relationship problem,。
or we might not be able to find a job,。
and we're having a financial problem.。
And for other people,。
we might be having problems in our family,。
and every now and then we might come into a crisis,。
and we just want to call out to God.。
But how is it that we can work with God。
so that God can work through us。
and that we can see his miracles?。
So today, we're gonna find out the secrets。
on how to do that.。
Now, we're gonna be studying Judges,。
chapter four and chapter five.。
Now, chapter four and five,。
they're actually telling the same story,。
except in chapter four, it's a narration.。
So it tells us a victorious battle。
that God has fought for the people of Israelites.。
Now, chapter five is where Deborah, the judge at that time,。
sings a song of victory。
because of this great battle that God has performed.。
So today, we're gonna look at both of them。
so that we can draw the details from both chapters。
and get the full picture.。
Now, so it all started in chapter four,。
where we find that Israelites, again,。
the people there were doing things。
that were evil in the sight of the Lord.。
And so the Lord gave them over to their enemies,。
the Canaanites.。
And now there was a king called King Jabin,。
and he lives, now I think I'm gonna try to use this,。
he lives right here at Hazar, okay?。
He lives very north.。
And now he has a commander, a military commander.。
His name is Seseira,。
and he lives right here in Haroshi Hagumi.。
And so what we find is that they are powerful。
because they have 900 chariots of iron。
and a very, very great army.。
Now, the Israelites,。
because the Lord has given them over to their enemies,。
has been oppressed by them for over 20 years now.。
And so there were cruelties and they were oppressed。
in such a way that the roads all along here,。
they were robbers and that people would just take plunders。
from the Israelites.。
And at the same time, the villages were no more,。
meaning that they were unwalled villages。
and people had no crops and had no agriculture at all.。
So that was a time of great oppression.。
And what we find is that God has Deborah being the judge,。
and she sits here, there is a palm tree named after her.。
It's called the Palm of Deborah.。
And it actually is situated between Bethel and Ramah.。
We're gonna find that these will actually come into play。
where the geographic of things are.。
So we're just gonna learn a little bit。
about where everything's happening.。
So now in this situation,。
we find that for some reason, a woman was the judge.。
And so she calls out to the Israelites military commander,。
and his name is right here.。
So what is it that we, so Deborah here,。
she calls out and she says,。
"Barak, you are our military commander, come.。
"Come because I have a word that I need to tell you."。
And so let's read it together.。
Here it says, "She sent and summoned Barak,。
"the son of Abinoam, and from Kadesh, Naphtali,。
"and said to him,。
"Has not the Lord, the God of Israel, commanded you?。
"Go, gather your men at Mount Tabor,。
"taking 10,000 from the people of Naphtali。
"and the people of Zebulun.。
"And I will draw out Seseira, the general of Jabin's army,。
"to meet by the river Kishan。
"with his chariots and his troops.。
"I will give him into your hands."。
Now from these two verses,。
we can see that it was all God's plan。
to deliver the people of Israelites.。
And there was a great game plan.。
I mean, if we look at this,。
we see that this area is where the battlefield would be.。
And what we find is that Deborah tells him,。
"This is the game plan, okay?。
"God has it all written out for you.。
"All you need to do is carry it out。
"because God already said。
"that he will give your enemies into your hands."。
And this is what they were supposed to do.。
They were supposed to gather men from Naphtali and Zebulun。
and then travel to Kadesh.。
And then they're gonna go to Mount Tabor。
where they're gonna fight with Seseira,。
the general of the enemy,。
and they're gonna come here to this point。
where the Lord will give them over to the Israelites.。
Now this all sounds great, right?。
So now if you are Barak, what would you be thinking?。
"All right, I just got a word from God。
"and now I even got a confirmation from the judge, Deborah,。
"and she's also a prophetess.。
"So I think it's gonna be a sure win.。
"But somehow, Barak didn't really react like that.。
"So let's read and see how he reacted."。
And he said, "If you will go with me, I will go.。
"But if you will not go with me, I will not go."。
And she said, "I will surely go with you.。
"Nonetheless, the road on which you're going。
"will not lead you to glory,。
"for the Lord will sell Seseira into the hand of a woman."。
So Deborah rose and he went with Barak to Kadesh.。
Now what we find is that for some reason,。
even after the confirmation from God,。
it was not enough for Barak to take actions.。
Now there is something very, very different。
about Deborah and Barak, right?。
We can find a few differences.。
One is a male, one is a female,。
and one is a military general,。
while the other one is a prophet and a judge.。
And we find that there's also something very critical。
that sets them apart.。
And do you know what that is?。
I can't really hear you from across the screen,。
but I'll give you the answer.。
It is faith.。
It is faith that sets them apart.。
So I wanna bring us to a very first point,。
is that if we want to partner with God,。
if we want Him to be in our lives。
and help us with the situation that we're going through,。
we must have faith in God.。
Now as we said earlier,。
we found out that Barak actually realizes。
what God's word was,。
but he thinks that it's not good enough.。
God's word alone for Barak was not good enough.。
He needed more,。
and even a confirmation was not enough for him.。
He needed even more.。
What did he need?。
He needed something that he could see with his eyes.。
He needed visual evidence.。
Now on the other hand,。
we see that Deborah believes in God。
and believes in His words alone.。
And she also risks her life,。
because when Barak says,。
"Will you go with me?"。
She said, "Okay, I'll go with you,。
"but you just won't get the glory."。
So she puts her life at risk for God's word.。
And also, she doesn't need physical evidence.。
Now what we notice is that there are these two people,。
one with faith, that's Deborah,。
Barak without,。
and we're asking ourselves,。
why is it that these two people。
under the same circumstances,。
they've been oppressed in the same ways,。
but one has faith and one doesn't?。
Because if we find out why,。
maybe it will also help us have faith.。
'Cause we hear people talk about。
have faith in God all the time,。
but how is it that we can do it?。
Now the Bible doesn't specify,。
but we can look at the clues and find out。
what makes Barak not courageous。
and what makes Deborah having all this faith.。
Now let's have a look,。
because in previous verses,。
we already saw that it said that the people of Israel,。
how did they do?。
They did evil in the eyes of the Lord.。
What else did they do?。
Because they did evil,。
the Lord sold them to their enemy, King Jabin.。
And when the new gods were chosen,。
war was at gates.。
So what is it that we realize is,。
Barak, who is part of the Israelite,。
has gone through this experience,。
where yeah, they prayed to God,。
but they were doing evil at that time.。
And because they did evil,。
God gave them into their enemies.。
And so they've been experiencing this God。
that's not fighting for them,。
but they've been experiencing a God。
that seemed to be distant and leaving them alone.。
And so what we find is that,。
Barak, having done evil,。
experiences a Lord that sells them to their enemies.。
And because of that,。
they have no faith in God and his words.。
Now on the contrary,。
we're gonna find that Deborah is not the same,。
even though they were under the same situation.。
But remember, Deborah,。
she is actually a prophetess and a judge.。
What that means was,。
she had access to the book of laws,。
and she would know what is it that God likes,。
and she would live by them.。
Now how do we know that she lived by them?。
Well, let's see,。
remember how Barak reacted?。
He actually said that,。
"If you go with me, I will go."。
What is that saying?。
That's saying that Deborah has such a good reputation。
of God's presence with her,。
that he's willing to even risk his life.。
So her reputation is telling us。
that she has been following God,。
and God's presence was apparent in her life.。
And at the same time,。
we also saw from scripture。
that it actually told us。
that she was able to judge the men of Israel,。
and men and people of Israel were actually going to her.。
So it means that because of the presence of God in her life,。
she was also able to teach people about who God was,。
and how they should live their life.。
So in here, we also see that in chapter five,。
it says, "I, Deborah, arose as a mother in Israel."。
Now what do mothers do?。
Mothers discipline their children,。
they bring them to the right path.。
And so here we see that the reason that Deborah。
has so much faith is because she has been doing good,。
she has been doing things the way。
that God wanted the people to do.。
And not only that,。
she teaches other people to do that。
when she judged for them.。
And we also see because of that,。
the Lord has been with her,。
and it was apparent, so apparent,。
that people saw the presence of God in her life.。
And because of that, she has faith in God.。
And so faith is like a muscle that we have,。
that we can exercise.。
And if we are also like Deborah,。
if we choose to be like her,。
we can also exercise our faith muscle.。
And we can do that by following what God says.。
And whenever we follow what God says,。
and God's goodness comes into our life,。
we actually gain more faith.。
And if we store up so much faith,。
that when crisis come into our lives,。
we would have enough faith to just believe in God's word.。
And so from this we see the very first thing。
that we as partners of God need to do。
is to have faith through doing good.。
Now, another thing that we looked at is,。
we haven't looked at,。
we're going to look at now,。
is that as they were moving north,。
because Deborah was going with Barack,。
to north to have this battle.。
We realized that in chapter five,。
it actually tells us that she calls on。
to the different tribes.。
Because as she moves from here, Ifram,。
all the way up to where the battlefield is,。
that along the way,。
they were singing a song to let people know,。
come on out, come on out,。
because the Lord is fighting for us.。
We need you, come on out.。
But we realized that not all of them responded to God.。
And not all of them responded to Deborah and Barack's song.。
So I have highlighted for us。
that all of the one in Magneta,。
they're the ones that responded to their calling.。
And the ones in blue are the ones that didn't.。
And they were too busy tending their flocks,。
too busy fighting off other enemies,。
and or just simply for no reason.。
And the Bible tells us so.。
And so it brings us to our second point.。
If we want to partner with God,。
the very thing that we need to do。
is we need to also take on our responsibilities.。
Now we have responsibilities just like these tribes.。
When God is fighting for us,。
we have a responsibility to react.。
We have a responsibility to respond to his call of action.。
Now, I know that a lot of times,。
we just want to sit on our couch。
and wait for God to do things for us.。
But God is not here.。
He's not in the business of cultivating。
a lot of lazy Christians.。
But he is in the business of partnering with us.。
Think about this.。
I mean, God can just send a plague down,。
and immediately, all the enemies would be gone.。
Why spend so much time gathering people?。
And it's not even a lot, it's 10,000 people.。
So why is it that he's doing so much?。
It's because he wants our partnership.。
How easy it would be for him to just do that.。
Now we have a Cantonese saying that。
when you go to someone for dinner。
and you want to bring something,。
we usually bring a chicken or something。
for the dinner buffet, right?。
So there's a saying that someone will bring the chicken。
and I will bring the soy sauce, okay?。
Which means that this is pretty much what's happening.。
Even though this is a partnership that we have with God,。
but really, he's bringing the chicken.。
He's doing all the work,。
but he just wants us to participate, bring the soy sauce.。
And so when we partner with him,。
it's important that we take on our responsibilities.。
And if we do that, we're gonna see God acting out for us.。
And so this is a saying I really like,。
which is we can't do anything if God is not here,。
but God won't do anything if we're not here.。
Okay, I'm gonna say that again.。
We can't do anything if God is not here,。
but God won't do anything if we're not here,。
because God wants our partnership.。
This is a relationship that we have with him.。
And so the third thing that I wanna tell you。
is that while we partner with God,。
this is my favorite point, by the way.。
My favorite point is the third point,。
because I get to see the salvation of the Lord.。
This is the part where after we've put in our faith。
in what God said, and this is the part。
where we even took on our responsibilities。
and did what we were supposed to,。
God has the battle, and he's gonna deliver us,。
because he knew how the ending would be。
even before anything happened.。
So the third part for us to really partner with God。
is just to see how he's gonna save us,。
and it's so awesome to watch that.。
And in this situation where the tribes were fighting。
at the River of Kishon, what we find。
is that all of a sudden, even though。
the River of Kishon in that time of the year。
was a small stream, okay, but all of a sudden,。
there was a cloudburst in a month。
that rain was unheard of, and all of a sudden,。
the heaven rained, and what we find。
is that in this verse we see,。
from heaven, the stars fought.。
From their courses, they fought against Cicera.。
The torrent Kishon swept them away.。
The ancient torrent, the torrent Kishon,。
marching on my soul.。
And so what we see here is that。
the Lord actually opened up the sky,。
and it started to rain in a season。
that rain was impossible, and not only。
like a few drops of rain, it was a torrent.。
It was enough that the ground that the chariots were on。
became muddy, and that the wheels。
were all stuck in the mud, and it can no longer go.。
And so the Israelites were able to take the lives。
of those army and their enemies.。
And so what we find here is that God。
is here to fight for us, because he loves us,。
and in any situation, he wants to be a part of our lives.。
He wants to take care of our problems,。
but it's not all the time that we。
are actually partnering with him.。
A lot of times, we're just on our own.。
So I just want to share a quick story。
about an event that happened last week.。
So last week, I was told, at least my mom tells me,。
that there's some family businesses。
that I need to take care of.。
And I was like, okay, well, this is not something。
that I really am looking forward to.。
The reason being is because the task required。
that I would need to talk to much older men,。
and they were a lot craftier than I was.。
And I was definitely not looking forward to it.。
And so I actually sat down,。
'cause I have two sisters, and they're not in Hong Kong,。
and so it's just me and my mom, all females.。
And so I was thinking to myself,。
all right, what kind of guy friends do I have?。
Maybe I'll ask that person to help.。
Nope, maybe that person, nope.。
And so I went through a list of people,。
and I realized they didn't quite fit,。
as in it wasn't quite right for them to help me.。
And so I suddenly remembered these two chapters,。
because I was also preparing for this sermon.。
And I asked myself, Michelle,。
what is it that you're depending on?。
Are you depending on human beings, people?。
Are you depending on people。
who are more skillful than you are?。
Or are you gonna depend on God and God alone?。
And I just remembered, I said, yes,。
of course, God and God alone.。
And suddenly I just started to remember。
that God loves me so much.。
Not that I forgot, but it was a very deliberate thought。
that God loves me so much that he's gonna provide for me.。
He's gonna open the ways for me.。
And so the next day, even though I was a little bit scared,。
I texted the people that I needed to talk to,。
and 'cause I thought I need to fulfill my responsibility.。
I need to do, I need to act in a faithful way。
after I know and have faith in God.。
I still needed to do something.。
So I texted them and we had a chance to meet up。
and negotiated on some terms.。
And surprisingly, I have to say surprisingly,。
that God delivered.。
He delivered just like the way he delivered。
the Israelites because they were supposed to be。
these old fox, but then they were like sheep somehow.。
And at the same time, they agreed to pretty much。
all the terms that I wanted to,。
which is very, very surprising for me.。
So you see, the story actually didn't end here。
for the Israelites, but I wanted to use my story。
to share with you that when we put our faith there,。
when we also act on it, that God will open doors。
in a way that we least expected.。
And when I say least expected,。
want us to continue on the story where we see。
that Seseira was actually one of the only men。
that got away from that event,。
when God gave them a victorious battle.。
And he was the only one that ran away。
and he went to a tent.。
And this tent was owned by a lady called Jael.。
Now Jael was actually supposed to be a family ally。
of the Kenyanites, but God used her in a way。
that helped the Israelites to get rid of this general.。
Now, how did he do it?。
So he asked, he asked Jael if he could take cover。
in refuge in her tent.。
And so she says, yes, and she says,。
"Turn around so I can cover you with this rug."。
And then he asked, "Could I have some water?"。
And she says, "Yes, have some milk."。
They were curdled milk.。
And then he says, "If anyone asks for me,。
"just say that there's no one here."。
And she's like, okay.。
So she goes to her toolbox and she actually takes out。
a peg and also a hammer.。
Because in those days, women actually put up。
and they took down tents.。
So she had these tools in her female toolbox.。
And so she took it over and actually while he was sleeping,。
she has assassinated him.。
And so what we find is that who would have imagined。
that the outcome of Seseira would be。
in a woman's hand other than God?。
And who would have thought that this turn of events,。
which seems so unpredictable and impossible to happen.。
And that's the point that I wanted to get,。
is that when we look towards God for the victorious battle,。
he will open the skies like he did for the Israelites,。
just for you.。
And he's gonna have a chain of events。
that doesn't even make sense and it's impossible.。
How would a female kill an assassin, a general?。
That's impossible.。
And yet she just took out some random tools。
and completed the job.。
So I just wanted to say that God loves us。
and he wants to help us with every single situation.。
And if we too will fight alongside with God,。
and if we will partner with him,。
putting our faith in him, exercising our faith muscles,。
and if we will take on the part that we are responsible for,。
we will see God delivering us in our situations.。
Now, those situations may not happen。
exactly the way that we have hoped or we'd like,。
but we do know that God is in charge.。
And if he is in charge, he's able to bring us。
to an outcome that is for us and not against us.。
And so what does that mean for us today?。
Well, if we wanna train up our faith muscles,。
we can start off by remember what Deborah did.。
She did good.。
And when she did good, she saw God and she got more faith.。
And so we can just read a passage from the Bible each day。
or even a verse and we'll say, you know what?。
Father, I'm willing to follow that passage.。
I'm willing to live that out today.。
If it says, forgive your enemy,。
and I have someone I really hate from work,。
I'm willing to do that.。
And if you say to forgive, and I'm fighting with my spouse,。
I'm willing to reconcile that day and that moment.。
And the more we do it, the more faith we build up.。
And so when things happen,。
like maybe we're facing coronavirus now。
and we're very nervous about it,。
or maybe you're looking for a job now and you look out,。
you're like, this is the hardest time to find a job.。
What shall I do?。
And in those moments, if we also act on it,。
take on our responsibilities,。
maybe we'll send out a resume every day.。
Maybe we'll even write a unique cover letter for each one.。
Or maybe for those of us who want to protect ourselves。
from the virus, then we're gonna take。
as much precautions as we can.。
And this is a time where when we take on the responsibilities。
and we do our best, we're gonna see God fighting for us.。
So friends today, I just wanted to encourage you。
because I've had so many instances。
where God and I partnered together.。
And again and again, he delivered me.。
And I just wanted to say that he's no longer a God。
that's far away that I can't reach.。
Through all these things that God and I have been together,。
actually, he's very, very close.。
He's so close to me that in each of my day,。
I can tell him my struggles and he would guide me。
to do what is good, what is good for me.。
And so I just wanted to encourage you.。
If you took nothing away today,。
that if there's one thing that can build your faith muscle,。
and that would be read a passage a day and act on it.。
Build your faith so that when that faith grows to be so big,。
that you're able to believe in God's word。
in whatever circumstances that you have.。
Maybe the circumstances that you're facing。
is as big as the 900 chariots of iron.。
And maybe that thing has been with you for over 20 years。
and you can't seem to get rid of that problem.。
But you know what?。
Our God is much more powerful than that.。
He can take care of all those things.。
He can open up the skies for you.。
And he's willing to have this unexpected chain of events。
just to help you.。
So friends, really want to encourage you。
that we'll take faith in him.。
So let us pray together for the God of the universe,。
our friend to help us.。
- Dear Heavenly Father, just want to thank you。
for being a God that never forsakes us.。
Even when we did not follow your ways, Father,。
you were compassionate and you would find ways。
to reach out to us again.。
You would give people like Deborah,。
you would give the Bible to us.。
You would give friends and church to bring us back。
so that even if we fell away from you, Father,。
that you would bring us back.。
And so Father, today we just pray that you would help us。
to build our faith muscle so that we have so much faith。
in you that whenever we're faced with crisis and troubles。
in our lives, that we will not look onto those trouble,。
but we'll look onto you, God, and say that。
you're always our help, you're always our friend.。
Father, help us so that we can partner with you.。
We just can't wait to see the works。
that you will do for us.。
Thank you, Father.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
- Let's respond in song.。
Whom shall I fear?。
You hear me.。
You hear me when I call.。
You are my morning song.。
Though darkness fills the night,。
it cannot hide the light.。
Whom shall I fear?。
You crush the enemy。
underneath my feet.。
You are my sword and shield.。
Though troubles linger still,。
whom shall I fear?。
I know who goes before me.。
I know who stands behind.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
The one who reigns forever,。
he is a friend of mine.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
My strength.。
My strength is in your name,。
for you alone can save.。
You will deliver me.。
Yours is the victory.。
Whom shall I fear?。
Whom shall I fear?。
I know who goes before me.。
I know who stands behind.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
The one who reigns forever,。
he is a friend of mine.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
And nothing formed against me shall stand,。
'cause you hold the whole world in your hand.。
I'm holding on to your promises.。
You are faithful.。
You are faithful.。
And nothing formed against me shall stand,。
'cause you hold the whole world in your hand.。
I'm holding on to your promises.。
You are faithful.。
You are faithful.。
You are faithful.。
I know who goes before me.。
I know who stands behind.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
The one who reigns forever,。
he is a friend of mine.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
I know who goes before me.。
I know who stands behind.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
The one who reigns forever,。
he is a friend of mine.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side.。
Let's just take a few moments。
as we draw our service to a close.。
We've sung those words,。
"I know who goes before me.。
I know who stands behind.。
The God of angel armies。
is always by my side."。
As Pastor Michelle told us,。
it's a partnership.。
I just sense as if God is reaching out。
his hand to you,。
as it were beyond the computer screen.。
He's saying to you now,。
"Will you take my hand?。
Will you come in partnership with me?"。
I don't know what you're going through in your life,。
but what I do know,。
if you would just reach out your hand tonight。
and take the hand of the one。
who is the God of angel armies,。
he is faithful.。
He will be faithful to you as he was to Deborah。
and the Israelites.。
So let's pray together as we close the service.。
Father, I thank you for meeting us tonight.。
Lord, meeting us in that difficult situation.。
Meeting us in the things that we have to face.。
Father, would you take my hand?。
Would you lead me to your side?。
May I know your presence with me。
tonight and always.。
May the blessing of God Almighty。
Father, Son, and Holy Spirit。
be upon us and our loved ones。
this night and for always.。
My friends, thank you for joining us tonight.。
God bless you.。
Just remember this week,。
everything will be online,。
whether it be Klans or Bridge or SCP.。
And next Saturday, we'll be back live streaming here again.。
Please join us as we start to look at the story of Gideon together.。
God bless you.。
Stay safe.。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
