Good evening everybody. I said at the beginning of the year as I announced the Gong Fuk Church。
theme for 2023, equipping the saints and serving the community, that quite possibly our series。
on serving was going to be one of the most important in our church history. I believe。
our focus has begun to be shifted from ourselves to the world outside, to the poor, the orphan,。
the refugee and those who need the church to be the hands and feet of Jesus and not。
just a mouthpiece. You remember I talked about the need to go from us to you to them. It's。
left me with a dilemma. How do we follow that? The talks that we have received over the last。
couple of months from Susanna, from Green, from Joyce and Alia last week broke my heart.。
They've led me to ask myself, what exactly is the gospel? What exactly is the gospel?。
The gospel is a term thrown around, often thrown around in Christian circles. In order。
to explain the gospel to others, it's important to understand what it is exactly. So let's。
unpack it quickly. The word gospel in Greek, euangelion, literally means good news. And。
it is mentioned over 90 times in the Bible. Broadly speaking, the gospel is the whole。
of scripture. The mega narrative of God's plan to restore humanity to himself. Specifically。
speaking, the gospel is the good news about Jesus. And yes, I could have kept singing。
that song all evening. That was amazing. Speak the name of Jesus. The story of who he is。
and what he did. But today's churches have taken this term gospel and often taken it。
to mean a meeting where we invite people to make a decision for Christ. After all, euangelion。
is a Greek word from which we get our English word evangelism. And certainly for me, when。
I became a committed Christian over 40 years ago, I became obsessed in getting people to。
make decisions to accept Jesus. My life was evangelistic. And I was a true evangelical。
in that sense. Feeding the poor, visiting the sick, caring for widows and orphans were。
clearly there in my Bible. I understood them. I supported them. But to be truthful for me,。
they were only there as a means to get someone to pray the sinner's prayer. In truth, my。
life was about decisions rather than discipleship. Can you see the difference here? Decisions。
and discipleship. I realised I'd put the term gospel in a box. I'd pigeonholed it. Yes,。
I got the bug for the gospel, but I wasn't looking at the whole picture. I decided to。
look to Jesus and the way he interacted, interacted with a wide variety of people. He was the。
complete picture. He was not just a soapbox preacher. It was rather like wanting to see。
Hong Kong from an eagle or a drone's perspective rather than a wild boar or an iPhone camera。
looking up at the Far East Finance Centre. As I began to look to Jesus, I was led to。
the very first time it was recorded that he spoke in church. It was in Nazareth, his hometown.。
We read, he opened the scriptures at the passage that Bonnie read for us so beautifully from。
Isaiah 61. I really wanted her to read the whole chapter. Now, interestingly, every time。
there is a first in scripture, it is good to take note of it because often the Holy。
Spirit is laying down a special foundation or a principle or a doctrine. I believe this。
is the case of Jesus' first recorded sermon, which is found in Luke chapter four. He said。
this, "The spirit of the Lord is on me because he has anointed me to preach good news to。
the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the。
blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favour."。
In verse 21, the bit that he didn't get from Isaiah, Jesus said this, "Today, this scripture。
has been fulfilled in your hearing." So the Lord Jesus affirms that he is the one that。
Isaiah and all the prophets wrote of. He announces the salvation of God. He uses the word here,。
euangelia style. They write something like that, you tell me. It's a long word. It looks。
like a Thai word actually, but it's a Greek word. And it comes from euangelion. And it's。
for the expression to proclaim good news. The gospel is the good word of God to us.。
It reveals the good God to us and the good Christ. And what we will see over the next。
12 weeks is that the good news, salvation, is more than a prayer at an evangelistic meeting.。
Let me say, important that is, and please don't stop doing it. You can't read through。
the gospels without seeing how much Jesus cared about hurting people. Can I say that。
again? You can't read through the gospel without seeing how much Jesus cared about hurting。
people. Just look at how he preached. He always started with the hurt, poverty, blindness,。
brokenness, imprisonment. You can tell a lot about a preacher by the way he addresses pain.。
Jesus addresses it constantly. Why? Because he came to share the good news with hurting。
people. When people approach Jesus, they always came for one of three reasons. A need, a hurt,。
or a question. Jesus did not turn them away. Jesus did not turn them away. He never told。
them that they shouldn't have come for more, they should come for more doctrinally correct。
reasons. He just met their needs. In fact, he declared in his very first sermon, which。
we read earlier, as he started his public ministry, that was why he came to earth. And。
as a preparation for our series, I want to look at the background to this passage in。
Luke. The spirit of the sovereign Lord is upon me, he's anointing me to preach good。
news to the poor. Now notice the last line of this, "To proclaim the year of the Lord's。
favor." It's easy to miss that line, but it's critically important to understand God's heart。
for hurting people. When God created the nation of Israel, he established the year of the。
Lord's favor, which is called the year of Jubilee. It was a year when every debt would。
be canceled, every prisoner would be let go, every slave would be free, and all land that。
had been bought in the previous 50 years would revert back to its previous owner. But here's。
the interesting thing about the year of Jubilee. In the entire history of Israel, do you want。
to guess how many times they celebrated it? In the entire history of Israel, the children。
of Israel never followed it, even once. This angered God. In the book of Jeremiah, God。
told Israel he was sending the whole nation into captivity because the people hadn't obeyed。
this. And while they were in captivity, Isaiah wrote the words that Jesus preached in this,。
his first sermon. So as Jesus reads Isaiah's words in the synagogue in his hometown, he。
was boldly proclaiming this, "I, I am the day of Jubilee, when everyone's sins and debts。
are wiped out." I want to put this into context by looking at where it falls in scripture。
and where it falls in the life of Jesus. If we go through Luke's gospel, what we'll see。
is that Jesus had been baptized by John the Baptist in the River Jordan, as shown in Luke。
3. I'll put it on the screen. Now when all the people were baptized and when Jesus also。
had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were open and the Holy Spirit descended on。
him in bodily form like a dove and a voice came from heaven, "You are my beloved son.。
I am well pleased." If we just move down to chapter four, we see this. And Jesus, full。
of the Holy Spirit, remember he'd been baptized, returned from the Jordan and was led by the。
Spirit into the wilderness for 40 days, being tempted by the devil. He was tempted by Satan。
for 40 days. And then we read, if we turn our fingers down a little bit to verse 14。
and 15, "And Jesus," this is after 40 days, "returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee.。
And a report about him went out through all the surrounding country and he taught in their。
synagogues being glorified by all." Let me just put this in summary. He was baptized。
in water and in the Spirit in the river Jordan. He was led by the Spirit to be tempted by。
the devil in the desert. He returned in the power of the Spirit to begin his ministry。
having overcome the temptations. I want to look at this a little bit more closely. And。
I want to use the Father's affirmation of Jesus, "You are my beloved Son. With you,。
I am well pleased." In Luke 3.22, to get down to some truths that affect every one。
of us. During Jesus' baptism or graduation, his heavenly Father identified three foundational。
truths that were essential to Jesus' public life and ministry. He acknowledged his pleasure。
that his Son had succeeded in understanding and applying these to his life. It appears。
that these three factors were central to Jesus' preparation. It may also help us understand。
why it took Jesus 30 years to prepare for a three-year ministry. Ten times as long sharpening。
the axe than the time actually spent cutting down trees. Let's look at what appeared to。
be the three primary foundation stones of Jesus' life and ministry. They're all in verse。
22. Number one, "You are my Son." Jesus had come to learn who his Father was and what。
his true identity and value was from his Father's perspective. Number two, "Who my love." Jesus。
had a tested and proven knowledge of his Father's love. His relationship with his Father was。
secure. It was not based on performance. Hong Kong parents, it wasn't about how many grade。
A's he scored. Just saying. "With you, I am well pleased." Jesus had learned that his primary。
purpose and motivation for life and ministry was bringing joy and glory to his Father above。
anything and everyone else. And remember, my friends, this was before Jesus had done。
any ministry. It gets interesting. Immediately following this occasion, Jesus was affirmed。
by his Father and anointed for public ministry. We read he was led by the Holy Spirit into。
the wilderness to be tempted by the evil one. Now the interesting thing here, the feature。
is exactly what the temptations were targeting. Satan always does this. In the Garden of Eden,。
God has said to Adam and Eve, "You can eat of any tree apart from this one." What did。
Satan say? Did God really say? That's the way he tempts us. Did God really say that。
to you? And Satan, the deceiver, the father of lies, is trying to undermine the Father's。
declaration over Jesus. God says, "You're my son." Satan says, "If, if you're the son。
of God, tell these stones to become bread." God says, "Whom I love." Satan says, "In。
effect, throw yourself down. If God loves you, he'll send his angels." God says, "In。
you, I'm well pleased." Satan says, "All this I will give you if you will bow down。
and worship me." He was saying, "In effect, forget your purpose. Forget the cross. I can。
give it to you now." Shortcut. Satan questions Jesus' identity, his relationship with his。
Father, and his purpose in life. And by doing this, tempts Jesus to prove his sonship and。
significance. He pressures him to take things into his own hands by not waiting for his。
Father's leading or provision. But Jesus, my hero, according to Scripture, "Man shall。
not live by bread alone. Do not put the Lord your God to the test. Worship the Lord and。
serve him only." He shows he is secure in who he is. He's confident of his Father's。
love and is focused on pleasing his Father above all else by choosing to not give in。
to this temptation in spite of his life-threatening thirst and hunger. Accepted, secure, significant.。
His beloved child whom he loves in whom he is well pleased. And my friends, this is so。
important. I'll tell you why. Because then, and only then, is he able to declare, "The。
Spirit of the Sovereign Lord is on me because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to。
the poor, etc." As he returns to Galilee, we read, "In the power of the Spirit." Can。
you see what happened? He was led by the Holy Spirit into the desert. He came out of the。
desert in the power of the Holy Spirit. Now, the first four books of the New Testament,。
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, are collectively known as the four gospels because these four。
books tell us about Jesus Christ, his birth, his life and teachings, his crucifixion, and。
his resurrection. Our 12 sermons over the next 12 weeks will be taken from these four。
books. Now, in a sense, these four books are good news because they culminate the story。
of the Old Testament. They're fulfilling the promise of the cross and resurrection。
that's found in the 39 books of the Old Testament. The anticipation of a rescuer and longing。
for a messiah has been the dominant theme for centuries, marked by failure and captivity.。
Yet in another sense, these gospels are good news because they record for us the story。
of the greatest life ever lived. They're not just biographies, although they do give。
us the necessary details of Jesus' life. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John are also witnesses。
to us, telling us that the word became flesh and lived among us to bear our griefs, carry。
our sorrows, and forgive our failings. But most of all, we see in the gospels the true。
story of Jesus as he lived out his mission to reveal the Father to us. In John chapter。
1, the apostle John makes a dramatic statement about why Jesus came. "No one has ever。
seen God. The only begotten Son who is at the Father's side has made him known." Jesus。
came to show us the Father, whose love for the world could only be satisfied by offering。
his Son as payment for our sin and brokenness. And Jesus has declared the heart of the Father。
by showing that heart. And that's what we're going to be seeing week after week over the。
next three months. John 14, 9 says this, "Whoever has seen me has seen the Father." But what。
did people who lived alongside Jesus see? That is what we're going to be exploring over。
the next 12 weeks. What we'll see is this, Jesus values people. The gospels share story。
after story in which he restores, comforts, transforms, and challenges people in an intimate,。
individual way. Our series is called Seeing the Heart of Christ. It tells the stories。
of 12 personal interactions that Jesus had with hurting people and how he dramatically。
changed their lives. By exploring the rich texture of these stories, we'll see the greatness。
of Christ's love as well as your deep need for him. In response to his example of compassion。
and mercy, you can't help be motivated to love and care for others. This series, I believe,。
will draw you closer to the Lord Jesus and help you understand the heart of God.。
So this is what we're going to be looking at one by one. Next week, Johnny's going to。
be here and be talking about a heart that touches Jesus and a leper. The horror of a。
disease that was seen as a walking death, compounded by that person being declared unclean,。
untouchable, and he would have to enjoy his fate alone in solitary confinement. We will。
see what happens when one leper came to Jesus at the beginning of his ministry with the。
desire to be made clean. The week after that, James will be here with a heart that marvels.。
We're going to be looking at Jesus and a centurion. This centurion is concerned about his servant。
who is lying at home paralyzed and from a position of authority, adopts one of humility。
and approaches Jesus in faith that Jesus will answer his cry. Then Michelle will speak to。
us on Jesus and Mary Magdalene. Mary Magdalene was a woman with a past, the subject of gossip。
and ridicule. But then she meets Jesus, who is not going to remind her of her past, but。
show her a way to a different future. And then we have Paul. It's great to have Paul's。
parents in tonight. Very welcome. Paul's going to be speaking about Jesus and two daughters.。
We will watch unfold a story of Jairus, a desperate dad whose daughter was dying, a。
desperate woman who'd been bleeding for 20 years, and a dramatic rescue that came to。
them both after meeting Jesus. And James will share with us a heart that confronts Jesus。
and a Pharisee. We will see that true confrontation comes from a caring enough for the person。
and comes from a deep sense of our own spiritual frailty. Jesus's interaction with the Pharisees。
was always done with love and genuine care. I'll speak the week after about Jesus and。
the Canaanite woman. Here we'll see a tension of a woman, a foreigner, persistently shouting。
out for Jesus's help and his disciples persistently calling for her to be sent away. Jesus demonstrates。
his love for the marginalized and responds to her persistence. The week after that is。
Jesus and a blind man. Johnny will speak to us. We will see an unconventional way of Jesus。
dealing with a blind man that the disciples brought him. As we look at Jesus's authority。
of a physical and spiritual blindness. And then we welcome back Gabe the week after.。
Jesus and a hurting dad. Story of a demon possessed boy. Jesus, whilst not ignoring。
the boy, focuses on the pain of the father. This characterizes the love of Jesus for hurting。
people. Michelle will then talk to us about Jesus and a tax collector. Famous story of。
a rich despised tax collector, Zacchaeus, we all know him, whose life took a 180 when。
Jesus decided to call him down from the tree and go to his home for tea. The week after。
that I'll speak about Jesus and a guilty woman. The story of the woman caught in adultery。
and Jesus' response to her is a wonderful example of this thing we call grace. I'll。
be focusing on that that week. Johnny will be talking the week after that, a heart that。
values Jesus and a man born blind. This is a special one for me and the Israel team.。
Remember we were at the pool of Siloam a few years ago where this actually happened. And。
as I was sharing at the pool of Siloam, we suddenly got a crowd come around us and we。
end up praying for everybody. Do you remember that? But we look into this special story。
of a person born blind and the special meaning behind his encounter with Jesus. And then。
James will conclude our series by talking about Jesus and Pilate. Pilate, what's he。
doing here? He was facing pressure from all sides, the crowd, the authorities, his wife,。
his conscience. We will see how Jesus in his final hours reacted whilst maintaining his。
caring heart. Now I've given you the next 12 weeks, but what does that mean for us?。
What does it mean for us today? Jesus came to help hurting people, whether they're in。
debt, whether they're in bondage to sin, whether they're imprisoned or all three. As we see。
Jesus interacting with the hurting people of his day, we see he is not just relieving。
people's pains and struggles. We will see in every case something of the father and。
the father's love that Jesus is declaring. Those same broken people God came to heal。
2000 years ago are here today and Jesus wants us to serve them. You remember a couple of。
weeks ago I talked about Jesus and the washing of the feet. I want to repeat a verse. For。
I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. Are。
we as individuals, are we as a church, are we as a city following Jesus' example by hurting,。
by helping hurting people? Jesus' heart for hurting people is a reflection of the heart。
of the father. My friends, that really is good news. As I ask the band to come back,。
may we be the ones who can sing, "The spirit of the sovereign Lord is on me now to love,。
to speak, to heal, to preach. The spirit of the sovereign Lord is on me now giving life."。
Let's all stand.。
[Applause]。
[End of Audio]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
