(audio cuts out)。
Open up this word.。
Actually, what did you think。
you were coming here for this evening?。
Were you just kind of filling in a gap。
just before your reservation?。
Or is this just what you do,。
or your parents tell you to come, whatever it might be?。
I think when it comes to church, for me,。
I'm getting this deeper and deeper sense。
of gratitude and reverence as to we're coming here。
because we're gathered here for Him.。
We're gathered here for Him,。
and it's not even the speaker, the sermon,。
or the great songs that we just sang.。
We're gathered here for Him.。
And do you recognize that?。
Do you truly believe that?。
Is that what you're here for?。
Is that what you're hungry and thirsty for?。
This can't just be a routine thing,。
'cause if it's just a routine thing,。
and you're sitting here just because。
your dinner reservation is at 7.30,。
then actually, I don't think it'll be any good for you.。
But if you come expectant for the Holy Spirit。
to speak into your life,。
if you come being ready to be pointed to Jesus。
and to be embraced by the Father's love,。
I think then the Lord has something for you this evening.。
Amen?。
And now we've been going through,。
you've been going through parables.。
I love parables, stories.。
Jesus was the greatest storyteller.。
He chose to use stories because it's through the stories。
that we get to remember things.。
We watch movies for the same reason.。
We get to see these stories lived out,。
and we kind of resonate with them,。
and we remembered them.。
And now we're like, "Oh, mustard seed.。
"It's about that."。
And then so Jesus uses stories,。
and He also uses it in them to help those。
who are really genuinely hungry for Him to get something.。
Because we all know what it's like to be spoon-fed。
and forced just morals and teachings and Bible verses,。
and you remember them just for that second,。
and then you don't live them out anymore。
because you've forgotten about them。
because you didn't go and get it yourself.。
So Jesus tells stories。
so that the people who really want to,。
the people who have a soft and open heart,。
will then go, "Okay, Jesus, what is that about?"。
And of course, with stories,。
there's always a moral to the story, right?。
That you think, "Okay, so that's what it's about."。
And so that's why He tells stories,。
and I love this story here.。
It's only a short one.。
I was gonna read it,。
but it looks like the video already read it for me.。
This is an interesting one because Jesus starts the story,。
and actually, the one just before,。
the parable just before was talking about prayer.。
He's saying, "You need to be persistent in your prayer.。
"You can't just give up after one trial.。
"You've gotta be persistent.。
"It's gotta be a continual relationship."。
And then He does, He jumps into another parable,。
another story, and He starts with saying,。
"Two men walk into a bar."。
Well, this is not two men walk into a bar.。
He says, "Two men walk into a temple."。
And He basically contrasts two men,。
the Pharisee and the tax collector.。
Now, you and I know these two men fairly well,。
or at least what they represent.。
And today, we're gonna go through this passage,。
and we're gonna see, actually,。
Jesus, what were you actually talking about here?。
And what I'm gonna do,。
because there's only really six verses,。
what I propose that we do is actually,。
we go through these six verses one by one.。
As we go through them, we'll glean what we can。
from actually what is the bigger picture at play here?。
What is Jesus talking about?。
What's the context in which He's talking from and to?。
And after that, we'll draw out some practical applications。
just before we go and eat,。
so hopefully that we can remember them,。
and actually really be able to apply them to our lives.。
Is that good?。
So let's go.。
Verse nine, He says this.。
This is the word of the Lord.。
"He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves。
"that they were righteous,。
"and treated others with contempt."。
Thank you for putting that up.。
I totally forgot to do this.。
I need to remember.。
Okay.。
So, I love this, because in other passages,。
we have to first figure out what the context is.。
When Paul writes a passage, we've got to figure out,。
oh, what is the context?。
Who's he writing to?。
Why is he talking to them about this?。
But here, Luke goes out of his way。
to tell us who he's writing to.。
He makes it very clear.。
He's saying, "He told this parable。
"to those who trusted in themselves。
"that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt."。
We're told the audience.。
We're told the context.。
What's the context?。
He's talking to people who are proud.。
We're talking to people who are prideful here,。
and you're looking at yourself,。
okay, well, this is a good context,。
and of course, at the very end,。
if we just fast forward to the end,。
for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled,。
and the one who humbles himself will be exalted.。
So, we know this is about pride,。
but then, why don't we just say,。
hey, guys, stop being prideful.。
That's it.。
End of sermon.。
Let's pray.。
Let's go.。
There's more to it.。
And so, as we look at this, we look at, okay,。
people who trusted in themselves,。
people who actually are, hmm, I think I can do it.。
I think I'm a good person.。
If you keep pulling that all the way back to the end,。
this is Adam and Eve.。
Adam and Eve didn't trust God.。
That's the original sin, right?。
What is the original sin。
that has led to all these other sins?。
The original sin was,。
God, I'm not sure I can really trust you.。
I think I'm gonna trust myself.。
I think I'm gonna eat the apple.。
I think I wanna know the difference。
between right and wrong myself.。
I'm gonna trust in myself,。
and that they were righteous.。
We don't use that word that much anymore, right?。
What context do we use the word?。
When was the last time you heard the word righteous,。
apart from the pulpit?。
The word righteous is often used in a negative tone.。
That person is so self-righteous, so stuck up,。
so full of themselves.。
But of course, that's not what the word righteous。
wants to bring out, the original meaning.。
If you were to search it in the dictionary,。
it would be to be morally right, or just, to be good.。
And so then you think, oh, well, actually, I'm good.。
I'm a pretty good person.。
But that's actually just half of it.。
The problem here is, these guys that he's telling the story。
to trusted in themselves and thought they were righteous,。
so they were self-righteous,。
because they didn't really understand the true,。
the deeper spiritual meaning of the word righteous,。
which is, if you are to be righteous, as the Bible says it,。
it is to be right in the eyes of God.。
It is to be right in the eyes of God.。
How does the Bible describe righteousness?。
It is an attribute of God.。
It is perfection.。
It is the holiness of God,。
and you cannot attain it yourself.。
The problem is, these people he's talking to。
have decided they can trust in themselves,。
that they can declare themselves good and perfect.。
What does that mean?。
They have severed their own connection between them and God.。
They're like, God, we know you're up there,。
but actually, I think we're gonna not trust you.。
I think we're gonna trust in ourselves, thank you very much.。
And so they've completely severed that connection there.。
And then it carries on.。
And then it says that they were righteous。
and treated others with contempt.。
Pride, here's the danger of pride.。
And we're gonna be talking about pride this whole evening.。
Not only does it sever your connection with God,。
it severs your connection with others.。
You're treating others with contempt now.。
They're looking down on other people.。
So that's what he's talking about here.。
And here's the problem.。
The whole Christian faith is about。
how do we love God and love our neighbor?。
The whole nature of grace is one of,。
it's almost, it's paradoxical.。
How do you receive grace?。
You must be willing to give it.。
Jesus, in his sermon, Matthew 5, said,。
"Blessed are those who are merciful,。
"for they shall receive mercy."。
So if you're not merciful, then you may not receive mercy.。
When he teaches them how to pray,。
later in that sermon, he says, this is how you pray.。
Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.。
At the very end, he finishes, and we all ignore it。
because it's not as catchy as,。
yours is the kingdom forever and ever, amen.。
It's forgive others as you have been given.。
'Cause if you don't forgive others, what will happen?。
Your Father in heaven won't forgive you.。
Grace is paradoxical in its nature.。
In order for us to receive it,。
we must be willing to give it.。
So pride is dangerous.。
That's what he's talking about.。
That's the context.。
Verse 10, he goes, this is his version of two men.。
Now we hear this, right?。
We hear the two men walk into a bar joke.。
Two men walk into a bar, an Englishman, an Irishman,。
and then goes the joke that really ridicules the Irishman。
because they're perceived as being not as smart,。
whatever it might be.。
Or the two kinds of people memes that you see online.。
There are two kinds of people in this world,。
those who are married and those who are happy.。
Those kind of...。
(audience laughing)。
Happily married, by the way, okay?。
It's just, that's a joke, okay?。
It's a joke.。
Christina, it's a joke.。
Okay.。
There are two kinds of people in the world,。
those who love to talk and those who hate to listen.。
Okay, so Jesus is kind of, but we remember those things。
because they bring about a contrast between two people,。
right?。
And so he goes, "Hey, let me tell you something.。
"Let me tell you a story."。
Two men walk into a temple to pray.。
There's the Pharisee and there's the tax collector.。
We are familiar with these two people。
because we've heard about them.。
If you've been in church for a certain amount of time,。
you will know that these two people,。
they represent certain things.。
The tax collector is a sinner.。
He betrayed his people to get more money.。
He worked for the enemy to collect money。
and to take a lot for himself.。
So we know the tax collector is not a good man.。
The Pharisee, we also know is not a good man.。
There's songs about not being a Pharisee。
and not being a Sadducee.。
So we know that the Pharisees are a bunch of stuck up people。
in the church that actually Jesus。
was very much pushing against.。
But here's the thing.。
When Jesus was telling this parable,。
the listener at the time, the readers at the time,。
may not have thought that。
because they don't have the benefit of us。
having studied the gospels for all these years.。
So in some ways, we need to understand。
what they were thinking when Jesus was telling the story,。
'cause then we can understand。
why Jesus was telling the story to them like this.。
Does that make sense?。
So he says, "Two men walk into a temple to pray,。
"a Pharisee and a tax collector."。
We know both are bad guys.。
We know both are fall short.。
But for the people listening,。
they would have been like, "Ah, the tax collector.。
"Oh, bad guy, we hate tax collectors.。
"A Pharisee, oh, influential guy,。
"rich guy, disciplined guy, knows his scripture well,。
"keeps the law, has a lot of power, looking up to him."。
That's what a Pharisee would have been perceived.。
I don't know, what's the modern day?。
Two men walk in, if I start telling you a joke of some sort,。
and it's two men walk into a church,。
it's a pastor and a, what's an occupation。
that doesn't offend people if I say it?。
Oh, that's... (audience laughing)。
Two men walk into a church,。
a pastor and a used car salesman.。
Like, sorry, or insurance salesman or banker.。
I'm only saying that 'cause John used to be one.。
You get what I mean?。
So straight away, if you're sat there,。
you're like, "Okay, two men walk into a church,。
"a pastor and a used car salesman."。
You go, "Oh, please don't be offended, used car salesman.。
"I love you, though I do not trust you, absolutely."。
You straight away think,。
"Okay, I think I know where he's going with this, right?"。
And so that's what these people are thinking.。
"Okay, he's trying to show us something。
"about the tax collector that we need to learn,。
"because surely a Pharisee is a very good person."。
And he says, "These two people go in and they pray."。
And then it carries on.。
I am terrible, terrible with the slides.。
Sorry, by the way.。
Thank you very much for paying attention more than I am.。
I'm just gonna give up now.。
I'm gonna leave it there.。
Verse 11 to 12.。
The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus,。
"God, I thank you that I am not like other men,。
"extortioners, unjust, adulterers,。
"or even like this tax collector.。
"I fast twice a week, I give tithes of all that I get."。
And so this guy is basically saying,。
"Hey, thank you."。
Now, first of all, he separates himself.。
He stands by himself.。
And you saw in the video,。
he stands in a prominent place in the temple,。
then he says, "God, thank you."。
By the way, that's the only time he talks to God.。
"God," he starts, and then he says,。
"Thank you for how amazing I am.。
"Thank you, God, that you made me so good."。
And he separates himself completely from everyone else.。
Now, separates himself just enough。
so that other people can still hear him talking.。
And so he's like, "I am so glad, God.。
"I am so glad that you didn't make me like that.。
"I am just so proud that you made me the way I am."。
Now, just before I continue to stamp on the Pharisee,。
let me tell you something.。
There is something that's actually good about them.。
The origins of where the Pharisees even came about。
is a group of people who looked at society,。
looked at culture, and were like,。
"We cannot keep following all this.。
"Paganism is overtaking our culture.。
"Hellenistic beliefs are taking over our culture.。
"Gnosticism is taking over our culture.。
"We must stand firm.。
"We must know the truth.。
"We must live the truth.。
"We must memorize the truth.。
"We must live this way.。
"We must be holy.。
"We must be set apart."。
Those are good things, right?。
And so they're saying, "We must be different."。
You know what we must be?。
We must be in this world,。
but we must not be of this world.。
Pharisees, fellow Pharisees, gather together.。
Let's keep to ourselves because we know the truth,。
and we need to live by it to the highest standard。
we possibly, possibly can.。
That's pretty good, right?。
So they are good intentions.。
But then somewhere along the line,。
and this happens with all of humanity, all of us do this.。
We start off with good intentions,。
and then it slowly, slowly just starts to go down.。
We start off here, and then suddenly。
our hearts start to get hard.。
And before you know it, what was good intentions。
in the first place now have become,。
their hearts have become hardened,。
and they've become obnoxious.。
They were supposed to be set apart,。
but now they've set themselves above.。
That's the problem.。
And that's what pride does.。
Pride looks at other people,。
and then he starts talking to himself,。
and he starts saying, "Hey, I have so many things。
"I'm thankful for, God, because of the way you've made me."。
He's not talking to God at all.。
He's saying, he may have started off saying God,。
but then he's really talking to himself.。
He's talking for himself, by himself, to himself.。
This is all about him.。
Now, the good thing is, this is where I do remember,。
the good thing is, I'm glad he did that,。
because I'm not sure God really had that much to say to him.。
D.L. Moody has this thing that says,。
"God has nothing to say to the self-righteous."。
And so actually, it's very well。
that the Pharisee isn't talking to God,。
because I don't think God is talking to him,。
because God only talks to the people。
who are willing to listen,。
who humble themselves to be wanting to hear his voice.。
But the Pharisees here, they are completely going one way.。
He's saying, "I am so disciplined.。
"I am so disciplined.。
"I fast twice a week."。
Do you know how often they actually needed to fast?。
Once a year, once a year.。
The holiest Jewish day, the Day of Atonement, Yom Kippur.。
They needed to fast once a year.。
And he's like, "But I'm fasting twice a week."。
My math isn't great,。
but that means I'm doing 100 times more。
than what I'm supposed to be doing.。
Aren't I amazing?。
Tithing, I'm tithing on everything.。
They were only supposed to tithe。
off the food that they got, the crops.。
But he's like, "God, I'm not even just tithing my food.。
"I'm not even just tithing my shake shack.。
"I'm gonna tithe everything.。
"I'm gonna tithe my salary.。
"I'm gonna tithe my house.。
"I'm gonna tithe any income that I get.。
"I'm gonna tithe my children.。
"I'm gonna tithe everything,。
"because I am so generous, God.。
"I'm more disciplined than any。
"of these other people down here.。
"I'm more generous than all these people here."。
That's what he's saying.。
But God doesn't have anything to say。
to the self-righteous.。
And then we go to the tax collector, verse 13.。
Oh, sorry.。
But the tax collector,。
but the tax collector, standing far off,。
would not even lift up his eyes to heaven,。
but beat his breast, saying,。
"God, be merciful to me, a sinner."。
We have one guy who walks into the temple to pray,。
and he stands right in the middle,。
separates himself from the other people.。
He says, "God," and then just blurts out his whole CV。
of how amazing he is.。
There's another guy, the used car salesman,。
who comes into the temple,。
but he can't even look up.。
Now, you're supposed to be standing to pray.。
That was the common thing back then, to stand and pray.。
But he gets into the temple,。
but he can't even look up, so he looks down.。
And more than that, he starts beating his breast.。
I don't know if you've done this.。
I tried this as I was practicing and preparing this sermon.。
It actually hurts quite, everyone try it, gently, though,。
especially if you're nearly turning 70.。
Just do it really gentle.。
(audience laughing)。
All right, just do it over, he can't hear me.。
There you go, beating.。
Why is he beating his breast?。
Why is he beating his chest?。
When have you beat your breast?。
When you are in absolute despair.。
When your heart is just so overcome by guilt and shame,。
just completely broken, you're like,。
"Oh, I am such a wretched sinner.。
"I am such a wreck."。
Can we understand a little bit。
of what the tax collector's going through here?。
He didn't actually need to go to the temple.。
Judging by who he is,。
he knows that every time he walks around。
in anywhere in that vicinity,。
he's gonna be looked upon and judged upon.。
He doesn't need to be there, and he's not a good person.。
Let's not suddenly turn him into an angel.。
He's a tax collector.。
He knows he's a sinner,。
but he's so overcome by his own guilt.。
He doesn't just stay at home,。
he's like, "I have to do something,。
"but I don't know what to do,。
"so I'm gonna drag myself.。
"I'm gonna climb up those stairs to the temple.。
"I'm gonna stand there, but now I'm here.。
"I don't even know what to say.。
"I don't even dare look up,。
"so I'm just gonna beat my chest."。
That's the desperation that he has.。
He's like, "I am a sinner.。
"I have no, have you been there?"。
Where you're just like, "I am at my end.。
"I don't know how I can save myself.。
"I need help."。
But then you get there, and you come to church,。
and everyone's raising their hands and jumping around,。
and you're just like, "I can't.。
"I can't, I'm just, have you been there?"。
That's what the tax collector is.。
And then he says, "Be merciful to me, a sinner."。
He doesn't say any more than that.。
He doesn't have any CV worth sharing.。
He just says, "Be merciful to me, a sinner."。
Now, when he says, "Be merciful to me,"。
he's actually, in the original language,。
it's not just, "God, would you just show me mercy?。
"Would you just look away?。
"Actually, would you just make an exception for me,。
"lower the bar so that I can step in today?。
"Lord, can you just let me off the hook?"。
That's not what he's saying.。
The original, the original meaning of this is。
not just, "Show mercy to me," it's, "Be merciful to me."。
It's, "Apply atonement to me.。
"Make me right.。
"God, be merciful to me.。
"I am a sinner, and I can't do anything to save myself.。
"I know I need saving.。
"Would you apply atonement to me?。
"I am disconnected from you,。
"and I don't know how to get back.。
"But would you reach down and apply atonement to me?"。
"Be merciful to me and save me."。
That's what he's saying.。
He's saying, "I need to be saved, but I don't know how.。
"And I know you can do it, and I can't.。
"So would you be merciful to me, a sinner?"。
That's what he's saying.。
And then we reach, really, the final,。
the central axiom of this little parable here.。
Verse 14, he says, "I tell you this.。
"I tell you, this man went down to his house justified,。
"made right, right in the eyes of God,。
"rather than the other.。
"For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled,。
"but the one who humbles himself will be exalted."。
Now, we're not just talking about Pharisees anymore.。
He's saying everyone.。
Everyone who humbles themselves will be exalted,。
will be justified, will be saved.。
And those who declare themselves,。
who trust in themselves, who think they're righteous,。
who think they're good, they will be humbled.。
The whole point of this is humility.。
And he's saying, "Anyone who comes to God。
"with a lowly heart, emptying himself, God will fill.。
"But anyone who comes with pride, you will be humbled."。
Another D.L. Moody quote says this.。
"God sends no one away empty,。
"except those who are full of themselves."。
God sends no one away empty,。
except those who are full of themselves.。
'Cause why does he need to do anything?。
The Pharisee doesn't need anything from God.。
In fact, it sounds like God needs to interview with him.。
But if you humble yourself,。
if you recognize that you actually need to be filled,。
if you recognize that you actually need to be saved,。
then we're talking.。
The problem here is this, and Spurgeon says this.。
"The greatest enemy to human souls。
"is the self-righteous spirit,。
"which makes men look to themselves for salvation."。
There was a quote earlier that I forgot to share.。
Actually, self-righteousness is the devil's masterpiece。
in letting you think better of yourself,。
that you think you are good enough.。
That pride, that is the most toxic, dangerous thing。
that we can have as the church.。
When we say, "We're good, we're good, we're doing all right.。
"We don't need a savior."。
But the whole point is that we do.。
The whole point is that we do.。
So what we humble ourselves is what we're saying here.。
Final one, "There is no pride so dangerous,。
"none so subtle and insidious as the pride of holiness."。
There is no pride as toxic as self-righteousness.。
And so we know that.。
And so yes, we can go away and we can say,。
"Okay, well, I will try not to be prideful."。
But what are we actually really gleaning from this。
that we can actually apply?。
As we look at how the Pharisee prays,。
as we look at how the tax collector prays,。
as we think about why Jesus told the story。
in the first place, what can we really glean from it?。
And I think there's a couple of things。
that I think would be helpful for us.。
The first thing is this.。
You or me, we should not be the focus of our prayer.。
We should not be the focus of our prayer.。
Have a think right now when you pray,。
when you pray on your own or when in a small group,。
what are the things that fill your mind?。
What are the things that you talk about?。
God, Father, God, thank you.。
And I've got all these things I need to request of you.。
God, can you help me live a more comfortable life?。
Can you help me get the job that I want to have?。
Can you help me be rid of this illness already。
would you help me find a spouse?。
Would you help me do this?。
Would you help me have things go smooth。
and your timing is always good so it's working out?。
Because I really want to get on that holiday,。
completely healthy with all my work done。
and so I can have a really nice ski trip.。
When you pray, are you the focus of your prayer?。
Or is it him?。
Jesus teaches them how to pray.。
And he says, our Father in heaven,。
hallowed be your name, your kingdom come,。
your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
There is nothing about personal requests.。
There is nothing about personal bragging there at all.。
It is all about him.。
We should not be the focus of our prayer.。
A theologian describes this parable,。
what Jesus is talking about.。
This Pharisee is basically glancing at God。
and contemplating himself.。
Do you do that?。
Do I do that?。
I think I often do.。
I'm so engrossed in my own personal circumstances,。
my own ambitions, my own desires,。
I glance at God and I'm completely contemplating myself.。
Where does that come from?。
Where does that come from?。
Why do we have that?。
I think ultimately it's because we want to live a life。
that looks good to everyone on the outside.。
Just like this Pharisee who walks at the temple。
and wants to show everyone how holy and how good he is.。
His prayer and his worship is completely focused on him.。
It's all about look at me.。
There's someone who said there are two kinds of people。
in the world, those who walk into a room and say,。
"There you are."。
And there are those who walk into a room and say,。
"Here I am."。
The Pharisee is the one who walks in and says,。
"Here I am."。
We are now in a culture where it is all about look at me.。
Look at me.。
Look at everything that I do.。
Look at my CV.。
I want you to accept me.。
I want you to admire me.。
I want you to adore me.。
Everything, I want you to just focus on me.。
9th of February, 2009,。
it's the day that mankind, we as a society,。
changed and not for the better.。
9th of February, 2009.。
Do you know what that day is?。
What happened that day?。
That was the day that Facebook invented the button like.。
(audience laughing)。
Like.。
Like.。
Ooh, like.。
Ooh, like.。
And now it's ooh, love.。
Ooh, ha ha.。
Ooh, and then they invented poke.。
Do you remember poke?。
That was annoying, wasn't it?。
I'm so glad that's disappeared now.。
Poke, poke you.。
Stop poking me.。
Poke, poke, stop poking me.。
Poke.。
Like.。
Before that, may it be we shared things about our lives。
on social media because we wanted to share with people。
just the stuff that we do in life.。
And then people comment on them and go,。
oh, that's so nice.。
And then the like button came.。
And now we share posts to get the likes.。
Now we share posts to get those comments.。
You look on social media now,。
and we all live on social media.。
Depending on your age will determine what app you're using,。
but we're all on social media.。
And you're all doing this, and we're all doing this,。
and we're all seeking approval.。
I'll tell you, I'll post something and I'll be like,。
ah, how many people liked my post?。
How many people responded to my story?。
How many people loved my story?。
Love it.。
Like, like.。
Look at me, look at me, look at me.。
How many of us have posted something,。
posted a bad picture of ourselves?。
Like really terrible.。
And actually, just as I said that,。
you two have posted a pretty ugly picture of yourselves.。
Respect, respect.。
But we don't, because we all want to show our best side.。
We all want to have the right angle,。
the right filter.。
Everything needs to be right.。
What we say in the caption has to be smart,。
and clever, and cool, and hip, and right.。
The latte that I'm drinking has to be perfectly lit,。
so when I share it, people will see how cool my life is.。
Right?。
Everything, and the people that I'm doing selfies with,。
everything is look at me, look at me.。
If we keep going back, what are we actually saying here?。
That need for approval.。
That need for the like.。
What are we saying here?。
We're craving attention.。
We're craving attention, why?。
Because we don't realize how much God loves us.。
It's like a child just crying out for the parents' attention.。
Hey, look at me, daddy, look at me, daddy, look at me.。
We say that.。
We act in a way to seek approval,。
because we don't believe our Father in heaven loves us,。
and is looking at us, and adores us.。
And so we go and find attention。
anywhere and everywhere else.。
But if we understood that,。
if we understood how much the Father loved us,。
that we don't need to seek anyone else's approval but his,。
I think we would stop doing things for show.。
I think we would live in a way that is completely free,。
because we know our Father in heaven loves us.。
I think some of us are more susceptible to this.。
Don't know how many of you love。
kind of like the personality tests。
and those kinds of things,。
and the Enneagram test is one of them.。
And I don't know too much about it now.。
I stopped looking at it,。
but I remember that when I did the test,。
I was an Enneagram three.。
Anyone want to know what an Enneagram three is?。
You do?。
The Achiever, the Achiever.。
And what I got out about personality tests was,。
if you're an Enneagram three, you're an Achiever,。
it means that you really care。
what other people think about you.。
So actually, you can take that one,。
you can keep that one every time I'm talking to you.。
I'm hoping that you like me.。
And so when I'm unhealthy, that's all I'm trying to do.。
I'm trying to get approval, trying to get compliments,。
trying people to like me.。
So when I'm, I've done this before.。
When I posted something up and I go back and see,。
I just want to see how many likes there are.。
I want to see who's liked my picture.。
I want to see why.。
So then I just want to be liked.。
That's when I'm unhealthy.。
But when I'm healthy, I realize, gosh,。
God loves me so much.。
He's always looking at me.。
I don't need any attention from anywhere else.。
So the focus of my worship,。
the focus of my prayer is not to show you guys。
how good I am, but it's just to tell him how good he is.。
Because I know that he's looking at me.。
We should not be the focus of our prayers.。
Now, Jesus talks about this,。
'cause he says in his sermon on the mountain again,。
he's saying, "Hey, when you do good things,。
"don't let your right hand know。
"what your left hand is doing.。
"When you're praying, don't stand on a street corner。
"and speak loudly with long words.。
"Your father who sees in secret knows.。
"You've already had your reward if you get all that.。
"You get all that manly praise.。
"So don't do that."。
And then he's saying to the other guys,。
and the gospel is saying,。
"Hey, you guys are just cleaning the outside of your cup,。
"but the inside is completely dirty.。
"You are worshiping me with your lips,。
"but your hearts are far from me."。
Your prayer, my worship, who's the focus?。
Are we glancing at God and contemplating ourselves,。
or are we truly freed from that need。
for approval from others?。
And are we focusing on the only one who's good?。
People often say there's two kinds of people in the world.。
There's good people and there's bad people.。
The movies seem to tell us that.。
There's the hero and there's the villain.。
The truth is, it isn't quite that simple.。
If anything, there are only two kinds of people。
in the world.。
There are lots and lots of bad people,。
and there's only one good person, Jesus.。
He should be the focus of our worship and prayer,。
not ourselves.。
The second thing is this.。
We should not compare ourselves to others.。
This Pharisee looks across at the tax collector and say,。
"God, I'm so thankful I'm not like him.。
"Dodged a bullet there.。
"Thank you for that, but I'm gonna take it from here now。
"and be the best person that I can be,。
"the greatest you ever lived,。
"but thank you that I didn't start off like him."。
Comparison is a dangerous thing.。
Comparison is a very dangerous thing, and we all compare.。
Studies say that we start comparing。
when we're seven years old.。
And I told you this story before.。
Reuben arrived when he was six when we came to Hong Kong,。
and then shortly after he turned seven,。
he'd look at me and go,。
"Daddy, why do people's cars open like this?。
(audience laughing)。
"That is so cool.。
"I've never seen that before.。
"Why does ours, wait, why don't we have a car?"。
(laughing)。
And I was like, "Oh, man, here we go."。
And comparison is dangerous, why?。
You'll never get out, you'll never get away from comparing。
without putting someone down and lifting someone up, never.。
Compare anything, even with like a neutral heart.。
You're basically saying, "Okay, which one's better, which?"。
You're asking for something to be put above。
and something to be placed beneath.。
It's the pride that it leads to,。
and it's a very dangerous thing.。
That's why we're told, when we're focusing on our life,。
just focus on the prize.。
Paul says, "I press on towards the goal。
"of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.。
"I'm not looking at anything else."。
Do you remember sports day?。
For those of us who used to run in the long distance。
or the short distances,。
what are you told to do by a PE teacher and your parents?。
Don't look to the side, don't compare.。
Keep your eyes focused on here,。
'cause the moment you look here,。
you'll realize where they are, and it'll distract you.。
So comparison is a bad thing, do not compare.。
And we all fall short of this.。
Now, I don't think any of us are here like,。
"Oh, when I come to church, I look at some people。
"and I go, 'Oh, that person is so bad.。
"'They worship in such a weird way.。
"'They worship with their arms crossed, that's weird.'"。
I'm guessing that none of you do that.。
But then, actually, are there things that we,。
even as a church, are guilty of?。
This Pharisee is guilty of comparing in the temple.。
Do we have temple comparisons in this modern day?。
We do.。
Society is becoming more and more polarized in every way,。
and it's seeped into the church, right?。
There's all these different kinds of Christians now.。
There's evangelical Christians, there's charismatics,。
there's Presbyterians, there's liberal,。
there's conservative, there's progressive.。
I lose track of all the different names that we can have。
for different type of Christians, right?。
We've got the Presbyterians looking over。
at the charismatics and going,。
"Oh, those guys just worship with their heart,。
"and they're just all feely,。
"and they're singing choruses a hundred times,。
"and just never stop singing.。
"Finish the song already!"。
And you're not using your brain at all,。
and you're praying as though everything will happen,。
that God will grant you your request to everything.。
And then the charismatics are looking over。
at the Presbyterians and going,。
"You guys don't even use your heart at all.。
"You're just stone statues,。
"and you just filled your head with knowledge,。
"and you're praying as though nothing will ever happen."。
Of course, both those sides, forgive me, both sides.。
But we see, we look at that and go,。
"Oh, that church is so liberal,。
"that church is so conservative,。
"that church is so this, that church is so that.。
"Aren't we doing that?。
"That church sings this kind of music.。
"Oh, that church does this kind of theology."。
Every time we start comparing,。
what we're doing is we're trying to find a place。
where we can say we're superior and they're inferior.。
And that's the pride.。
That's the self-righteousness.。
That's us trusting in ourselves.。
That's saying, "Hey, we've got the right theology.。
"We've got the right way of worship.。
"We've got the right way to reach young people.。
"We've got the right way to reach old people."。
And you don't.。
Comparison is a dangerous thing, brothers and sisters.。
Don't compare.。
Our worship, our prayer does not need comparing.。
We're all beautifully made in very different ways,。
and we all worship in different ways,。
and we all process God and worship Him。
in very different ways.。
The Apostle Paul, 1 Corinthians 14 says,。
"I worship with my mind and I worship with my spirit."。
We as a church, can we stop comparing?。
It's the whole mission of one church, right?。
Can we stop comparing?。
Can we just say, "We are made so beautifully different."。
We should not compare.。
Because Scripture tells us we need to look at others。
and go, "You're more significant than me."。
That's what Scripture is telling.。
But instead, we look at them and go,。
"Oh, out of our own insecurity,。
"we're trying to find their flaws."。
That's what we're doing, right?。
'Cause we don't feel that good about ourselves,。
but we're looking at other people and go,。
"Oh, well, they're even worse.。
"That makes me feel better."。
We should not be the focus of our prayer.。
We should not compare ourselves to others as well.。
And finally, we should not trust in ourselves.。
(baby crying)。
He's talking to a group of people。
who trusted in themselves, right?。
I was having lunch recently with someone, a dear friend,。
and we go for lunch a lot.。
And I'll say, "Hey, imagine if Jesus。
"walked through the door right now, how would you feel?。
"What would you do?"。
He's like, "Well, I feel pretty good about myself.。
"But I don't think I've done anything majorly wrong.。
"I don't think I've cheated, I've not killed anyone,。
"paid my taxes, I'm pretty good.。
"I've not done any major sins."。
I'm like, "Do you think that's gonna be enough?"。
He's like, "I think so."。
And I'm like, "I don't know,。
"I don't think it's gonna be enough。
"because we're not justified by our works."。
Today, literally today, as I was walking back home,。
the security guard shouts out to me,。
"Hey, Dan San, Mr. Tang, I heard you're a pastor."。
I said, "I am."。
He's like, "You don't look like a pastor."。
(audience laughing)。
I was like, "What does a pastor look like?"。
Only just today when I walked in,。
someone said I look more like a triad than a pastor.。
(audience laughing)。
Thank you, Paul.。
(Dan laughing)。
Just watch yourself.。
(audience laughing)。
And then he started talking to me,。
and then we had this 20-minute conversation。
with my security guard.。
And he was like, "Oh, well, oh yeah, yeah,。
"I believe in Jesus.。
"And actually, my primary school teacher told me this.。
"I went to a Catholic school."。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Like, good people go up there, bad people go down here.。
End of story.。
He's like, "Oh yeah, but I believe in Jesus,。
"and I believe that he lived and he died.。
"I get that, but yeah, good people up here,。
"bad people down here."。
And I said, "Oh, well, if it's good people up here。
"and bad people down here,。
"then why did Jesus have to die?。
"Because then you just, you'd be good,。
"and you make your choice, and you go here.。
"What was the whole point of Jesus dying?"。
He's like, "Hmm, I don't know.。
"Why is that?"。
I said, "Because I don't think any of us。
"will ever be good enough."。
Because we're talking perfection, right?。
We're talking the righteousness of God up here.。
You'll never reach that.。
Mother Teresa never reached that,。
because there's bound to be some flaw in all of us,。
because that's not it.。
We're not justified by our work,。
so we can't trust in ourselves.。
There's a pastor here that says this.。
"I believe that a great number of people。
"are going to die and go to hell。
"because they're counting on their religiosity。
"in the church instead of their relationship with Jesus。
"to get them to heaven.。
"They will give lip service to repentance and faith,。
"but they've never been born again."。
Doesn't that send chills down your spine?。
When I ask you, "Hey, how confident are you in Jesus?"。
You're like, "Oh, well, I've been going to church.。
"My attendance this month is 75%.。
"Pretty good, no fail.。
"I don't know if it's enough.。
"Oh, I've been donating to charities.。
"Pretty good, no, I don't know."。
Because it's not about that.。
The apostle Paul had the greatest CV, right?。
He had the greatest CV in Philippians 3.。
He says, "I was circumcised on the eighth day。
"of the people of Israel.。
"I was a Hebrew of Hebrews.。
"As to the law, I was a Pharisee.。
"I knew everything.。
"I followed all the laws.。
"I disciplined myself in every way,。
"more than any other people.。
"As to zeal, I persecuted the church.。
"As to righteousness under the law, blameless."。
And then he says the secret,。
"But whatever gain I had, I count as loss。
"because of the surpassing worth。
"of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord."。
That's the thing that matters.。
It's not what you do, it's who you know.。
And it's only Jesus that will get you in.。
Good people go down here, bad people down here.。
That is wrong theology.。
'Cause it doesn't work like that,。
because you will never be good enough.。
Jesus says only one person is good.。
And he says, "Be perfect for your Father in heaven。
"is perfect."。
Now, if you're confident that you're gonna be perfect,。
then good luck to you.。
But for the rest of us, we need a savior.。
We need someone to save us.。
So do not trust in yourself.。
And it's not how you look on the outside.。
Can you tell from this Pharisee,。
his perception of righteousness and of sin。
was completely external.。
The way he fasted, the way he donated,。
the way he did everything, everything was external.。
But what he didn't realize was that God looks at the heart.。
One of my favorite books of recent times。
is called "The Boy, the Mole, the Fox and the Horse."。
Fantastic book.。
And it has just, for those who don't like reading,。
if this is the book for you,。
there's like six words on each page.。
Okay?。
"The Boy, the Mole, the Fox, the Horse."。
Incredible, my daughter absolutely loves it.。
Written by a Christian, goes to HDB in London.。
Incredible.。
And if you really, really can't even read six words。
on a page, it's on Apple TV.。
30 minute cartoon.。
It's incredible.。
And it says this one thing, I think I've got it actually.。
Isn't it odd?。
So I think, I can't remember which character。
was talking to which, but it says this.。
Isn't it odd?。
We can only see our outsides,。
but nearly everything happens on the inside.。
We can only see our outsides,。
but nearly everything happens on the inside.。
The Pharisee had an understanding of sin。
and righteousness all external.。
He didn't realize everything was internal.。
The way we go about our faith is all about sin management.。
My dear friend who was like,。
I think it'll go okay if Jesus comes in.。
He's thinking where the floor is.。
Sin management, I'm not doing these things,。
I'm gonna be okay.。
But that's what Christianity is about.。
Christianity isn't about sin management,。
it's about striving up here.。
It's about our heart.。
It's about heart transformation。
as opposed to behavior modification.。
We should not be the focus of our prayer,。
we should not compare ourselves to others,。
and we cannot trust in ourselves.。
What Jesus is saying here is,。
those who think they are good won't get in.。
Those who know they're wicked, they will.。
Those who think they're good won't get in.。
Those who know they won't, they will get in.。
That's what he's saying.。
Let me finish here.。
When I shared with you what the tax collector said,。
be merciful to me, a sinner.。
Apply atonement to me, make me right.。
I can't make myself right.。
Apply atonement unto me.。
Connect me back with you again, only you can do it.。
That word there only happens twice in the New Testament.。
One time is right here,。
and another time is in Hebrews 2.17.。
Therefore he had to be made like his brothers。
in every respect so that he might become。
a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God。
to make propitiation for the sins of the people.。
To make propitiation, to make right, to apply atonement.。
That's the only other place this word comes up.。
To be merciful.。
It's saying, what he's saying here is,。
not God, would you lower the bar so I can hop in?。
He's saying, would you help me?。
I am in deep need of atonement.。
Would you come and save me?。
Would you come and save me?。
When you truly understand then what happens next,。
that's what frees you.。
Because how does he save you?。
Jesus becomes the sinner for you.。
For God made the one who knew no sin to be sin。
so that we would receive what?。
The righteousness of God.。
Jesus became the sinner and took all of our sin。
and paid all of our debt。
so that we would have atonement applied onto us.。
That we would be made right in him.。
At the end of the day,。
there are only two kinds of people in the world.。
Those who are saved and those who are not.。
Those who think they're good。
and those who know they are wicked.。
Those who think eternal life can be earned.。
And those who know that it's a gift.。
Those who seek God and people's commendation。
and those who seek forgiveness.。
Those who are still dead in sin。
and those who are dead to sin.。
There are only those two kinds of people.。
And you might be, well,。
how do I get from one side to the other?。
I am still dead in sin, but I want to be dead to sin.。
How do I do that?。
There's only one way.。
Jesus.。
Jesus is the only one who can apply。
that atonement onto you.。
He was the only one who was perfect,。
that was sacrificed so that all your debt would be paid.。
When you truly understand that,。
then you will have no pride.。
And this week is the perfect week to reflect on this.。
The cross.。
The cross is the only way you can turn。
from this kind of people to this kind of people.。
And the cross is the only way。
that's gonna help you go across there.。
He is the way, the truth, and the life.。
All you need to do is humble yourself before him。
and say, "God, I need to be saved."。
I'll finish with this quote here.。
"Every time we look at the cross,。
"Christ seems to say to us,。
"I am here because of you.。
"It is your sin I am bearing.。
"Your curse I am suffering.。
"Your debt I am paying.。
"Your death I am dying."。
Nothing in history or in the universe。
cuts you down to size like the cross.。
All of us have inflated views of ourselves,。
especially in self-righteousness,。
until we have visited a place called Calvary.。
It is there, at the foot of the cross,。
that we shrink to our true size.。
Brothers and sisters, this week, there is no better week.。
Would you find yourself at the place called Calvary?。
Would you allow the cross, the message of the cross,。
to speak into your life, to shrink you to your true size,。
so that you can truly understand。
your deep need for a savior,。
and that there is hope, that you can be dead to sin.。
You don't have to remain to be dead in sin.。
You just need to say, "Be merciful to me, God.。
"I am a sinner, and I need you."。
And when that moment comes, you receive that grace.。
It doesn't matter how many times you fail.。
His grace will remain.。
And that is the art, the true art, of losing yourself.。
So your worship and your prayer won't be about you anymore.。
It'll be completely about him.。
My prayer for all of us is,。
would we allow him to really clean us from the inside out,。
and that we would stop thinking just from the outside in?。
That we would allow his Holy Spirit to be in us,。
and allow us to be made right in him.。
Righteousness of God.。
Would you join me in prayer as we respond?。
Jesus, we know that in truth,。
there are many kinds of people in this world,。
there are not just two.。
And we are all types of sinners, but sinners we are.。
Thank you, Lord, that you did apply atonement to our sins,。
that you did become a sinner,。
so that we would be the righteousness of God,。
that we would be made right in God's eyes,。
that we would be justified.。
Jesus, we know that you are the answer to our sin.。
We know what your cross can provide for us.。
So we humble ourselves before you,。
just like the way you did.。
You, Lord, who, though it was in the form of God,。
did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped,。
but you emptied yourself,。
taking the form of a servant being born。
in the likeness of men.。
And being found in human form,。
you humbled yourself by becoming obedient。
to the point of death, even death on the cross.。
Lord, you humbled yourself for us.。
And therefore God has highly exalted you。
and bestowed upon you the name that is above every name,。
so that at your name, every knee will bow。
and every tongue will confess that you are Lord.。
You were humbled and now you are exalted,。
and we follow your lead.。
Save us, Lord.。
Wash us, clean us from the inside out.。
Lord, we want to lose ourselves in wonder and awe of you.。
And every time we fail, we recognize that you,。
your grace remains for us.。
Lord, we concern ourselves less with behavior modification.。
We concern ourselves more with heart transformation.。
We lay down our pride, our self-righteousness.。
We declare, once again, we do not trust in ourselves,。
but we trust in you.。
In your name we pray.。
(upbeat music)。
