Thank you, Bonnie, for that scripture reading. I love all the energy as Bonnie was reading。
it. Good evening, everyone. It's great to be seeing you here online with us on Zoom。
or on YouTube. And so we've been going through this series of the seven I am's and we're。
looking into the Good Shepherd tonight. Now, Jesus makes a very direct statement that he。
is the Good Shepherd. And throughout this passage, he actually said that he would lay。
down his life for them for more than five times. Now, the verse right before that, the。
very first verse that we read was in 10. And he said that the thief comes only to steal。
and kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life and have it to the full. And。
we've also seen the other version where it says abundantly as well. Now, the word full。
and abundant, really, it doesn't mean this little bit, you know, sometimes we feel like。
our life is, you know, it's okay with Jesus a little bit, but there's a big chunk that。
sometimes it's not going that well. But the scripture says that Jesus came that our life。
may be full and abundant. My very first question to you is, is your life overflowing, full。
of life and abundance as much as it can be? Or is your life not quite fulfilling? Or wishing。
that you had more or maybe worse, you see no point of living or you don't even see the。
purpose in life. And like something's missing and problems somehow just seems to pile up。
one after another. Now, if that's the case, then maybe it might be that the thief has。
come into sneaking into your life, stealing your joy and peace, killing your self-esteem。
or hope or destroying the relationships in your life. So hence, unless we understand。
what Jesus is trying to reveal to us as the good shepherd and let him lead us, we're not。
going to be able to live a life that is fulfilling and abundant as he promised. And this fulfillment,。
I want to stress again, isn't getting like everything that we want, but it's a fulfillment。
that God has intended for us. So let us tonight understand what Jesus means and how, because。
he is the good shepherd, can lead us into this fulfilling life that he promised. Now。
in this passage, we see four characters, the thief or also known as the wolf, and there's。
the good shepherd, the hired shepherd, and then the sheep. Now the thief or the wolf。
is Satan, this world, the lust that we have and the false teaching that is just trying。
to devour us. And the good shepherd is Jesus who gives up his life for us, for his people.。
Now the hired shepherd are leaders that are not totally committed. And finally, the sheep。
represent men. And there are some in the sheep fold, meaning that those who believe in Jesus,。
and there are some that are outside who hasn't believed in Jesus yet. And Jesus is here saying。
that he will guard his sheep, his men against the evil one. So another question, this is。
a bit more interactive. How many people think if you're a Christian, the enemy will not。
come and get you? Can you raise up your hand? I mean, with my limited zoom, I think I can。
only see a few people. But I don't think anybody's hand is up as far as I'm scrolling around.。
And that is correct. I mean, just because you're a Christian, it does not mean that。
the enemy will not come at you. Actually, in fact, because you belong to Jesus in his。
pen, all the more the enemy will come and try to get you. He will climb the walls, and。
he will sneak up just when you least expect it. So all of us actually, Christians or not,。
are prone to the deception and temptation of Satan. The lust that we have in our hearts,。
the prideful thinking. And these things actually pull us away from living a full life. Now,。
for example, you might feel jealous or angry at your coworker, because he seems to just。
know how to please and flatter the boss without doing much work, and he gets promoted. While。
you do all the work, and you never get promoted. Or you feel resentful and hold grudges against。
someone who has wronged you. And you might feel anxious or discouraged, because you're。
still not dating yet or married yet, and you've wanted to for many years. Or you might be。
misunderstood or betrayed or hurt by someone that you love. Now, while the enemy at those。
times wants to climb through the walls, and to get you, he's trying to steal your joy,。
kill your faith, destroy your relationship, or even your life. But what does Jesus say?。
In verse 11, he says that, "I am the good shepherd." The good shepherd lays down his。
life for his sheep. Now, unlike the hired hands, he will not flee when trouble comes.。
He will not abandon his sheep. But instead, the good shepherd is here to stay, to protect,。
to care for his sheep, even at the expense of his own life. Now, Jesus laid himself down。
on the cross for us, so that our sins will no longer be counted for, and the wrath of。
God has been satisfied, and we're able to reconcile with God. And so he loves us to。
the point of death, and is pointing towards the cross, which he will go up for us. Now,。
what more will he withhold from us? And he meets us where we are. So this brings us to。
our first point, that the good shepherd protects us with his life when we're under attack.。
I mean, how is it that we can have this fulfilling life, abundant life, is to know that whenever,。
if we are ever under attack, Jesus is going to be right there, and he's going to crush。
your enemies. And so when Jesus says he's the good shepherd, he meant what he said.。
And when we're being eyed by the wolf, our enemy just wants to snatch us. When the enemy。
wants to fill our hearts with hatred, anger, frustration, hopelessness, greed, selfishness,。
pride, and rather it's like, in our study, if you're still studying, or at our job, with。
our relationships or our health, do we run to him as a refuge and savior? And if we do,。
we can have this abundant life. And I remember when I was young and younger, sorry, I'm still。
young. But I remember when I was younger, and my sisters would give me a hard time every。
now and then, I would always cry and go to my mom or dad. And I remember my dad, he would。
always ask me, did anyone bully you today? I should have feel so safe when he asked me。
that. Because if my sister did, oh, for sure, they're going to get it real bad for my dad.。
And as we grew up, of course, we should grow and become independent. But spiritually, we。
are never independent. Because we are struggling against, not with the flesh and blood, as。
Ephesians 6.12 tells us, but we are against the authorities, against the powers of this。
dark world, and against the spiritual forces of the evil in the heavenly realm. So we must。
fight against the spiritual realm by depending on God. And so if we want to live this fulfilling,。
abundant life, we must remember that the spiritual warfare belongs to God. And so when Jesus。
says that he is the Good Shepherd, and he lays down his life for us, unlike the hired。
worker, a few things he mentions, number one is that it's because we belong to him. Jesus。
owns us, our lives belong to him. Belong means that he's our master. He's ultimately responsible。
for us. I mean, have you ever seen a cub who's under attack? Oh, the mother lioness fiercely。
pounds on any predator and will fight to her last breath for the cub. Why? Because the。
cubs belong to her. Now in the same way, when we're being eyed by the enemy, and he wants。
to touch us, Jesus will not stand there. He's not going to flee. He will get the enemy for。
us. And he will rescue us and fight for us. And he will not abandon us, nor forsake us,。
because not only was it an order from God, but we belong to him. And most of all, he。
cares about us. And that's why he's going to protect us. Now, some of you who have children。
or are married, when your child or spouse is in need, you will go to them right away.。
Or on the flip side, if you're still living with your parents, you know that whenever。
you need help and you shout out for them, they will come for you. And so the first thing。
in order for us to live this abundant life is to know that whenever our joy is being stolen,。
or we're under attack by the enemy, we no longer need to live for ourselves. But we。
can go to the Father, and he is going to get the enemy back. And he will restore the joy。
and the peace and love and all the fruits of the spirit that Jesus had intended for you.。
So run to the Good Shepherd, tell tale the worst of the enemy to the Good Shepherd,。
and he will fight for you. Remember, your enemy is not the person or the situation that。
you're in. It's the evil works of the devil, the sins within us, the selfishness or the。
pride. So ask God to help you to fight and to restore that. Whatever it is, don't fight。
it yourself. Give it to the Good Shepherd, and he will fight for you. And when you have。
trouble, turn to him. Of course, you can talk to a friend or have some distraction. I like。
to distract myself with some shopping or TV or self-help book and those are all good things,。
except they don't get to the spiritual warfare. So we must know who our enemy is, and we're。
fighting a spiritual warfare. And so go to God, he is our Good Shepherd, and he is our。
answer. And as we read on in verse 14 and 15, Jesus says that I am the Good Shepherd.。
He says it again. I know my sheep and my sheep know me, just as the Father knows me and I。
know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. Now this word "know" in Greek,。
in this context, it actually means a few things. To have knowledge in, to recognize,。
and to have a close acquaintance with. And so Jesus is describing here a relationship between。
him and the sheep, or man in this case. And it means that both sides have knowledge of each。
other. Both Jesus knows his people, and his people knows of Jesus. Rather it's the character,。
the personality, or the desires. And here also means to recognize, meaning that even if there。
are many people here, that you would always recognize that this is the voice of the Lord.。
Not that, not this, but that particular voice that belongs to the Lord. And to have close。
acquaintance is to have a relationship with them. Not just like I'll see you once a year,。
I mean we do have some of those friends. And if you have Facebook and you have over a thousand。
people, I mean those are not close acquaintances, but the people that you spend time with,。
people that you know, those ones you really know. So recently I've spent some time with some new。
friends, and we begin to share our hearts, our ups and downs, and we laugh together. I really。
feel that they're not just someone I know a little bit, but my close acquaintances. And we share life。
together. So to know someone is to have that person as your close acquaintance, involve them。
in your life, and you actually are involved in their lives too. So this brings us to our second。
point. That the way that we can live a fulfilled and abundant life is that we need to have a close。
and intimate relationship with Jesus, our Good Shepherd. Here Jesus is saying that He's the Good。
Shepherd. He knows His sheep, and His sheeps know Him, just as He knows the Father. Now that's a。
very intimate kind of knowing. And you know, for us ladies, you know, when we go to the bathroom。
together, I know this is an analogy that maybe the girls would get it more than the guys.。
Now when we go to the bathroom together, right, and I've done that before with my mom, and there's。
probably like 20 stalls in there. And you never quite know when you're finished or the other。
person's really done. I know the ladies are resounding a little bit more to this. And so。
what we usually do is we kind of say, "Hey, are you done?" You know, and you know, so there I was,。
I remember many times where I would just say, "Mommy," and then miraculously my mom would respond.。
And I must think there must have been like over 10 mothers in one of those, you know, not one of。
those, in 10 of those stalls, right? And how is it possible just with two syllables she's able to。
recognize me? Well, it's because we've been involved in each other's lives so much. And this is the kind。
of intimacy we're talking about. I mean, not one where we go to God every now and then when we have。
a problem or two, you know, not one where we read the Bible like once in the blue moon or like。
once a month or something like that. It's a kind of intimacy where we're spending life together.。
We're doing life together. And interestingly, in verse 15, he says that and he will lay down。
his life for his sheep. I mean, at first, I mean, he's talking about knowing his sheep and he's。
describing this relationship that he has with his father. And to add on this, he even points out。
that he will die and lay down his life for the sheep. I mean, how can you know someone to death?。
Is that what Jesus means here? Well, I don't think that's what he means. It means that you're so。
close with someone that you would even be willing to die for them if that's what they need. So it's。
describing a kind of relationship where it's so intimate that you begin to willingly give up。
yourself for the other person. And because Jesus is the good shepherd, he is so intimate with us。
that he's already willing to give up everything for us. Now, the question is, are we there yet。
in this relationship? And that's really a question for us to ponder on. And we know from the Bible。
that God knows us. But it's really a question of, do we know him that well? And are we his。
acquaintance or is he our acquaintance only? And so spending time with him and allowing him to be。
a part of our lives every day is the key to this fulfilling and abundant life. It's not about。
getting the things we want and solving the problems. That's not how we get an abundant life,。
but it's to have him with us all the time, sharing life with him. And if we do this,。
we will have an abundant life. And so for those of us, you know, who are feeling like we're missing。
something, we're not happy all the time. Well, we need this intimate relationship.。
Now, as we read on in verse 17 and 18, he says, "The reason my father loves me is that I lay down。
my life only to take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I。
have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. This command I received from。
my father." Now, this is an interesting twist as Jesus has been talking about him and his sheep。
and how he is their good shepherd. Now, somehow he seems to redirect us and talk about the father.。
He talks about why the father loves him. Now, for those of us who might have grown up meeting。
the approval of our parents through our performances, it's easy to read into this。
verse and thinking, "Oh, Jesus was loved by God because of what he did." But the father does not。
love Jesus any more or any less because of any works or obedience from Jesus. And we know that。
because during Jesus' baptism, God said that, "You are my beloved son, whom I am well pleased."。
So, he didn't have to do anything to earn it. His identity was where it was all founded, this love.。
So, then what does this verse mean then? Because it does say, "The reason my father loves me is。
that I lay down my life." Well, this is an expression that God loves what Jesus has done for。
him. And the father is pleased with what he is doing, just like our parents loves us regardless.。
But when we cook a meal for them or get flowers for them, they love our thoughtfulness and our。
loving gesture. So, in a similar way, Jesus is willing to lay down his life, surrendering to God.。
In essence, Jesus is saying that he's willing to lay down his life for his sheep, whom God loves.。
He is doing something that the father likes and the father loves him in return. And it's actually。
speaking of this loving relationship between Jesus and God. And Jesus is willing to do all that,。
God tells him. He's willing to surrender. And what's so good about this good shepherd is that。
he's not just laying down his life, "Well, because God told me to, all right, I guess I'll have to。
lay down my life." No, but he makes the father's command, whatever is in God's heart, his very own.。
And he ends up genuinely loving his own sheep, because these are the sheep that the father loves.。
Jesus loved those that the father loves. And we have a Chinese saying, "Oi Wu Cap Wu," right?。
For those of you, okay, I'm going to explain that in a moment. It means that you love someone so much。
that you are going to love the people they love. You are also going to love the passion they love.。
So, this brings us to our third point. That in order to have a fulfilled life and an abundant。
life, we cannot be thinking about ourselves. We cannot be living for ourselves. Instead, we need。
to surrender to the father. This is the third key. And Jesus, the good shepherd, shows us that with。
his own submission to the father, he does what the father pleases. And he becomes the father's heart.。
He cares for the sheep. And this is a model that we need to follow as well. And the good shepherd。
is pointing us to the same direction. Because as the good shepherd not only understands the father,。
but becomes his father's heart, making it his own, so too, as his followers, we must do that。
in order to live out this abundant life. And so, the question to all of us is, do we surrender to。
the father? Do we take our father's heart and make it our own? Or are we still living for ourselves?。
Are we doing what the shepherd, the good shepherd, is showing us? I mean, when we're bogged down by。
our own situation, whether it's schoolwork, relationship, or kids, I mean, do we continue。
to still do what the father wants? Or are we so beaten up or absorbed that all we can think about,。
or all we are, is to be consumed by those situations? Now, recently, my life has been。
undergoing a lot of stress. And sometimes it seems impossible to solve it. And as the situations。
unfold, and I really contemplate about how is it that I can go on? How is it that I can solve。
the problems that are in front of us, in front of me? And I realize that I need to turn to the。
father and for Jesus, all the more for help. I mean, I'm just a human being as well. And I get。
anxious and worried and even depressed sometimes, just thinking about the situation. But I have。
been telling myself, I must run to the father. I must run to my good shepherd who cares about me.。
And I begin to set aside more time to fast, to pray, and to do devotionals for longer periods。
of time. Now, this is not a competition of time. But it's really a sense that I need him more than。
ever. Because I know that he protects me from my enemy. When my enemies try to devour me,。
I know that he cares and he protects. And when I run to him, I can feel the sense of safety and my。
joy begins to come back. I need not to hang on to my emotions, but to hang on to the truth。
that Jesus is my good shepherd and he will protect me, laying down his life. And even though I might。
talk to my friends and I speak to counselors, that when I wake up and I try to spend my first thoughts,。
I pray to God, telling him, God, I need you today. I depend on you. Please help me to continue today.。
Protect me against the evil one. And as I spend time journaling the things that I believe God is。
telling me and studying his words, I begin to know him more. And throughout the day, I mean, to be。
to be telling you the truth, I still get anxious. And I do end up, you know, maybe talking to some。
people about my issues. But I invite him to be with me, praying through the day. And sometimes。
it's so frequent that I can't even tell if it's my own thoughts or if I'm praying or a mix of both.。
But it's like I'm doing life with him. I'm inviting him to be with me. And I sense that。
my relationship with him continues to grow more intimately. He's my friend, my teacher, my guidance.。
And he calms me down. And because of this relationship with my good shepherd,。
I find strength to keep on going, even when I feel discouraged. And I believe that this is the。
kind of relationship that Jesus wants us to have. Having him as our friend, to be guided by him,。
to trust him with all our situations. And at times, you know, when I'm so absorbed with my。
own situation, I seem to hear still a voice that says from God, keep serving other people. And。
really, you know, I talk back to God and I say, really, I can still do that even when I feel like。
a mess? And he seems to be telling me, yes, yes, keep caring for those who are suffering, because。
I care about them too. And so I try to, with God's strength, to be obedient and I lay down my issue,。
maybe for an afternoon or an evening, and I minister to those others who are also suffering.。
And afterwards, I feel an immense sense of fulfillment. Those people also tell me that。
they feel better. And I believe that it's because God is helping me to surrender and to continue to。
do his will anytime. And that, my friends, I do know that are the keys to live an abundant life.。
Now, it's not that we won't have any more problems. That's not what the Bible verses says.。
But to have a fulfilled life, an abundant life, to live our life to its fullness,。
is to depend on Jesus, our Good Shepherd, who protects us, to build such an intimate relationship。
with him, that your heart and mind begins to merge with his. And then start to do things,。
not for ourselves anymore, even though our situations is very well present in our lives,。
but to press on to do the things that he wants, to surrender to him, so that we don't have to。
focus on the temporal, but to surrender ourselves to God and look into eternal.。
So, my friends, the Good Shepherd has shown us the way that we can and should run to the Father。
in our times of trouble, to build an intimate relationship with him, so much that we're bonded。
with him, to gain strength and to know his heart and to let his heart become ours,。
and to surrender ourselves in response, focusing on the eternal. And that, my friends,。
is a full and abundant life. And a lot of times, it's not easy for us to do that.。
But if we're willing to, I believe that the Good Shepherd is going to lead us to a place,。
to a kind of joy, peace, self-control, a kind of fulfillment that we never understood before.。
So, let us run to the Father. Let us run to the Good Shepherd. Rather you have burdens in your。
heart or heartbreaks, or rather you're just walking through your everyday life, have him,。
your Good Shepherd, leading you the whole time. You are not alone. Jesus, God, and the Spirit。
that he has given us is always with us. Let us pray together. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you。
for being our Good Shepherd, that in times of trouble, you will fight for us. You will not。
let the enemy touch us, because you love us, you care for us. And Father, we also pray that we'll。
continue to grow and have this intimate relationship with us. Mold us, change us, teach us,。
guide us, allow our hearts to be changed so that it will be more like yours. And allow our lives,。
Father, to always surrender, not doing what we want to do, but doing what you want to do,。
because eternal matters and the temporary will pass. Father, thank you so much for giving us。
Jesus, the Good Shepherd. It is good to be known and to be known. In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
