I feel quite emotional about that.。
Michelle was right, Hong Kong is our home.。
I do feel we've had words of prophecy over us that actually we're going to go to be ambassadors。
for Hong Kong.。
A lot of people are talking a lot of nonsense about Hong Kong and everyone sort of saying,。
"When are you leaving?"。
I feel that God has ordained us for this season to go overseas and really be ambassadors for。
Hong Kong.。
So please keep us in your prayers and we will keep you in our prayers definitely.。
Well, we reached the end of our journey today.。
Ten weeks of self-examination, ten weeks of practicing not giving the enemy a seat at。
your table.。
To be honest with you, I'm going to miss it.。
I'm going to give you an LOL moment though.。
Bonnie is not going to miss having to set up the table with Taobao fruit every week.。
But I just want to give a great thanks to Bonnie for week after week after week.。
I think she said to me on week two, "We don't need to do the fruit in the table anymore."。
I said, "Yes, we do."。
And she's done it faithfully every week.。
Thank you so much.。
But maybe today is not the end.。
Actually today is the beginning of our journey.。
I'm going to focus on some key biblical truths and I'm going to give you some seeds.。
We are going to together, we're going to plant something today.。
And I'm going to share an exercise where every day this week, you will share with yourself。
and hopefully with others a biblical truth.。
And I'm going to encourage you to learn some memory verses.。
Do you remember that when you were at Sunday school?。
Now question, why do kids learn memory verses at Sunday school and we don't as adults, right?。
We've got out the habit of it.。
Maybe we need to restore the habit.。
I used to love doing, send them to song.。
You sang a song and then you actually learned the Bible verse.。
And we had a singer in the UK, James may have heard of him, called Ishmael.。
His name was actually Ian Smale, but he called himself Ishmael.。
And all he did was take scripture verses and put them to song.。
And he had one, it just went like this.。
The song went like this.。
Hebrews 11 verse six, "Without faith it's impossible to please God."。
That was the end of the song.。
But you know, it may not have been a great song, but I've never forgotten since that。
time what Hebrews 11 verse six.。
And for those of you who are Sunday school teachers, who are teaching kids memory verses,。
keep on doing it.。
And for us as adults, can we start doing it?。
Can I have amen to that?。
I believe that my seven seeds for seven days will grow into a beautiful garden.。
It will change our flawed mindset that has enabled the enemy to gain a seat at our table。
into a mindset that leads to life.。
Now to enable us to do this, I need to ask us all a telling question.。
And we need to be honest with ourselves with the answer.。
Are you stuck?。
Are you stuck with a thought or an attitude?。
Somehow you can't get it out of your mind.。
Are you stuck with a faulty concept of who you are?。
Are you still stuck with a gripping temptation that you can't seem to break free from?。
You know what God wants from you, yet you know it's difficult to get your mind off the。
path that leads to less than God's best plan for your life.。
Now here is the brutal truth.。
The battle for your life is fought and won in your mind.。
God wants you to take control of your life in Jesus' name through the power of the Holy。
Spirit.。
And it's actually down to having a right thinking.。
That's what this series has all been about.。
And because God is in the story with us, we are ultimately in a story of victory.。
Yet we can still be tripped up and sidetracked along the way.。
We can give the enemy a seat at our table, but we don't need to.。
Romans 8 verse 6 gives a great summary of how we don't need to let the enemy sit down.。
I'm reading this one from the NASB.。
It says this, "For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the Spirit is。
life and peace."。
I love the imagery of a mindset.。
We can have a new mindset, a new way of thinking, and I wanna answer the important question。
how?。
But first, are you ready for a new mindset?。
I want to show you a mindset that leads to life.。
You can see it on the screen.。
I wanna show you that your mindset can be different.。
Your thoughts can be different, and your life can be different because your mind is set。
on Christ.。
God is with you.。
He is on your side.。
He has established a beachhead of victory through Christ.。
But we have to play our part.。
The way you go about stopping the enemy from sitting at your table is by winning the battle。
for your mind.。
It means replacing old harmful thoughts with new life-giving thoughts, and new life-giving。
thoughts will lead to changed behavior.。
Victory begins in the mind.。
Now one way of thinking less about the devil or the evil that you are trying to avoid and。
thinking more about God and the truth you're aiming to embrace is by memorizing Scripture.。
Imagine your mind is a garden.。
Seeds can be dropped by birds or float in the wind, but you as the gardener are responsible。
for what grows there.。
You have the power to water good seeds, to cultivate the good seeds, and pull out the。
weeds from the seeds you don't want growing there.。
But how?。
Look at Romans 12.2.。
Then you will be able to test and approve what God's will is.。
His good, pleasing, and perfect will.。
Actually what Paul is saying here is you reap what you sow.。
If you sow negativity, fear, pride, unclean thoughts, I could go on, that is what you'll。
reap.。
Everybody, do yourself a favour.。
Go home tonight, switch on your computer and check your history.。
I dare you to do that.。
That is what you are sowing into your mind.。
Whose websites are you trusting your spiritual growth to?。
Think of who you hang out with, the company you keep, and their conversation.。
Is it uplifting?。
Or are they a bunch of complainers, cynics?。
Is their talk wholesome or is it leading you down a slippery slope?。
The way to renew your mind is to wrap your thoughts around Scripture.。
Full stop.。
You can take control of what you think about.。
Scripture helps you plant good seeds in your mind.。
As these seeds take root and grow, they will help you remove the destructive weeds that。
the enemy tries to plant on your mind.。
Now we get to the exciting bit.。
Seven seeds.。
I've called this the mindset that leads to life.。
Seven seeds for seven days.。
Number one, tell yourself the truth and number two, memorise the verse.。
And I'm suggesting that you take one thought and one verse per day.。
Or maybe you take one thought and one verse per week for seven weeks.。
Either way, plant and begin to cultivate these seven thoughts in your mind right now and。
personalise it for yourself.。
There's good news.。
You're going to be given a card.。
You will never forget this series.。
The yellow, right?。
You will be given a card that you'll be given during the final song at the end of the service.。
Take this with you.。
If you're listening online, we will post this online as well.。
And this could be so valuable for you.。
And if you need to take one for someone, if there's one over, take one.。
So what we're going to do is we're going to look at the next week.。
And firstly, we're going to look at Sunday, tomorrow.。
You get up tomorrow morning.。
The first thing I want you to do is to tell yourself a truth.。
And the truth is this, I am in God's story.。
Not too difficult, right?。
In fact, let's repeat that together.。
Ready?。
One, two, three.。
I am in God's story.。
Well, that's five of you.。
That's really good.。
No, it's fantastic.。
No, you did very well.。
The story of who you are is part of God's larger story.。
The story is bigger than you.。
Ultimately, the story is not about you.。
But you have been invited into the story of God's great glory and grace.。
It's all about Him.。
But you have a seat at His table.。
Before you were formed in your mother's womb, God knew you.。
Jesus, the good shepherd, guides you always.。
And according to Psalm 37, 23, the Lord makes firm the steps of those who delight in Him.。
So firstly, plant this thought in your mind.。
I am in God's story.。
And memorise this scripture.。
I think you'll be familiar to many of you.。
Let's read it together, shall we?。
Go to the next slide.。
Got it?。
The next one.。
That's it.。
Right, ready?。
Okay, all together.。
One, two, three.。
"For I know the plans I have for you," declares the Lord.。
Plans to prosper you and not to harm you.。
Plans to give you a hope and a future.。
Not too difficult to memorise that one, right?。
I think most of you know it.。
Because you matter to God.。
But ultimate meaning will not come from putting the spotlight on you.。
Your life will have the greatest significance when you choose to make it about the one who。
welcomed you into His never-ending story.。
I know Mondays, a lot of us don't fancy getting up Monday morning, workday, right?。
Monday morning, the alarm goes off.。
Oh, it's too early.。
Okay, wake up Monday morning and tell yourself, "I am fearfully and wonderfully made."。
Can we try that one?。
One, two, three.。
I am fearfully and wonderfully made.。
Your birth was not a random act.。
God made you with intention and God made you wonderfully.。
Isaiah 43, one says, "God has redeemed you and knows your name."。
So plant this in your mind.。
I am fearfully and wonderfully made.。
You know, I think I told you a few weeks ago, my younger sister is 18 years older than me.。
And for many years, the family joke was, I was the family mistake, right?。
But I'm not.。
I am fearfully and wonderfully made.。
And memorize this scripture together.。
It's found in Psalm 139.。
Let's all read together.。
Yeah, good.。
One, two, three.。
"For you create my inmost being.。
You knit me together in my mother's womb.。
I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made.。
Your works are wonderful.。
I know that full well."。
You're not the maker.。
You are made.。
God is not created in your image, how you think he should be.。
But you are created in his image.。
He decided that he wanted you in his universe.。
He imagined you and he fashioned you.。
You are not accidental, incidental.。
You are divinely crafted.。
Plant this seed every day and in time, you'll have an oak tree providing shade for you and。
those around you.。
You will begin to believe that you are who God says you are, unique, special, valuable.。
Okay, we guess better with Tuesday.。
It's getting better, right?。
So we have Monday out of the way.。
Tell yourself, "My life has purpose."。
Very easy, right?。
Four words.。
One, two, three.。
"My life has purpose."。
You were born for a noble reason.。
God has good things for you to do.。
He has called you to live for what matters.。
So plant this thought in your mind and memorise this scripture from Ephesians 2.。
One, two, three.。
"For we are God's handiwork, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared。
us in advance for us to do."。
Random things are random, but created things have purpose.。
There is just one you.。
There's just one me.。
Thank goodness you say.。
You have a unique calling, a reason for being.。
Something to do in God's story that is important and needed.。
You know, we don't have to be 007 James Bond to have a special assignment, right?。
You have a special assignment.。
Do not buy the lie that you are expendable.。
God put you on earth for a purpose.。
Your life matters to Him and to those He is positioning you to serve.。
Okay, we come on to Wednesday.。
The truth is this, the cross has the final word.。
Can we say it all together?。
The cross has the final word.。
What Jesus did on the cross defines your life.。
It gives you victory over death.。
We've been singing about it.。
You're identified with Christ.。
You're a brand new creation.。
You are not unwanted, unlovely or worthless.。
You are wanted by God, made in the image of God and worthy of Christ's love because He。
has chosen to place worth upon you.。
Your identity was born in the death, the burial and the resurrection of Christ.。
And wasn't that wonderful last Saturday morning when we celebrated that at the beach.。
Do not let anyone try to convince you of anything that wasn't demonstrated to you when Christ gave His life for you.。
You are forgiven.。
You're made whole.。
You are holy in Christ.。
You were born into a new family.。
You are woven into divine plans and purposes.。
Gone.。
Your guilt is gone.。
Free.。
You are free.。
So plant this thought in your mind that the cross has the final word and memorize this。
scripture from 2 Corinthians.。
Ready?。
1, 2, 3.。
"Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation.。
The old has passed away.。
Behold, the new has come."。
As we get on to Thursday, talk about us serving.。
The truth is I serve at the pleasure of the King.。
Can we say that together?。
I serve at the pleasure of the King.。
You know the work of Jesus Christ transforms your work.。
You don't merely work at a job.。
Charles, you don't just work at AIA.。
You serve Jesus Christ, the King of Kings.。
In the light of this truth, here is a new personal vision for you.。
It's a statement you can remind yourself each day.。
I am dispatched by the Holy Spirit.。
I'm on kingdom assignments to be light in a darkened world so that others can see Jesus.。
If you look at your work that way, you'll see it in a completely different light.。
So plant this thought in your mind and memorize this scripture together from 1 Peter 2.。
Ready?。
"But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God's special possession,。
that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light."。
So we're on to Friday.。
Jesus is Lord and Jesus is my Lord.。
Can we say that together?。
Jesus is Lord and Jesus is my Lord.。
Our God is stronger than anything, higher than anything and worthy of all praise.。
Your God is the great King.。
His kingdom is forever.。
His plans are unassailable and sure.。
So plant this in your mind.。
Jesus is Lord.。
It's not just Jesus.。
It's not enough.。
Jesus is Lord and Jesus is my Lord.。
And memorize this scripture, Philippians 2.。
Ready?。
1, 2, 3.。
"Therefore God exalted Him to the highest place and gave Him the name that is above every name,。
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth,。
and every tongue acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father."。
Amen.。
Okay, next Saturday, just before you come back here again with our new teaching series,。
the truth is this.。
My God turns evil into good.。
Can we repeat that one?。
My God turns evil into good.。
Life doesn't always work out the way you hope.。
We are living on a broken planet.。
Just read the news headlines.。
But no circumstance can hinder the seeds we've just discussed from being cultivated in your mind.。
No hardship or disappointment or disease or divorce or darkness or desert can stunt the growth of godly thoughts。
from becoming mighty trees in your way of thinking.。
So plant this thought in your mind.。
My God turns evil into good.。
And memorize this scripture from Romans 8.。
I think we all know this one.。
1, 2, 3.。
"And we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God,。
to those who accord according to His purpose."。
KFCI.。
God has spoken these truths in His Word.。
If we can start here, if we can plant these in our minds,。
if we can keep nurturing them until the Word takes root and grows and produces a crop,。
it will change your life.。
It will change this church.。
And I believe it will transform our city.。
The garden is your mind.。
Where you are growing a transformed person by planting God's Word.。
And that person is sitting at the table.。
The place of fellowship with the Good Shepherd.。
Where you don't want to give the enemy a seat.。
Where you want to enjoy a meal with the Lord and it's not plastic fruit from Taobao.。
Don't be scared.。
Jesus, the Good Shepherd, guides you all the way.。
I now want to wrap up 10 weeks in less than 10 minutes.。
Scripture is clear.。
Jesus lives in you.。
And when Jesus lives in you, your slate is clean.。
You are set free from condemnation.。
You're given a new life and you're placed into a new family.。
You have a relationship with God through Jesus.。
Christ's work on the cross got you out of death.。
So now your life can be lived, fully surrendered to Him.。
You are alive in the Spirit, alive by the Spirit, alive for Christ, alive in Christ,。
so that He might be glorified.。
This is not a negotiation.。
This is a call to completely surrender to Jesus.。
You are completely open, completely available to Him.。
He has given you a new identity.。
Your call is to make Him known to the world.。
I don't know about you.。
I want to set my mind on Jesus.。
[Sobbing]。
I want to constantly fill my mind with Scripture.。
I don't want to waste my time.。
I don't want to get off track.。
I don't want to give the enemy a seat at my table.。
I want to set my mind on the Spirit and daily surrender to Him.。
God has made a way for you and me.。
And it's not by having our own way.。
It's by entering into the process of making Christ known in the world.。
I know I want God to move in a supernatural way in my life.。
I don't want average.。
I don't want the easiest path.。
I want to know God intimately, deeply.。
I want my life to defy explanation.。
And I'm thinking, this is the life that you want too.。
This kind of life can be yours.。
One that is fully dependent on the power of the Holy Spirit。
and is activated by you stepping forward in faith.。
Too often, we want to see miracles first before we take a step.。
"Okay God, you do something great and then I'll take a step."。
"Give me all the right words first and then I'll take the microphone."。
"Give me all the money first and then I'll start with what you called me to do."。
"Give me the spouse I need and then I'll step into the unknown."。
But the fullness of the life that Jesus provides becomes evidence to us often。
when we move and we act upon his leading.。
When we open our mouth and speak.。
The steps we take in faith activate the power of the Spirit.。
Just as I'm speaking now, I've just got a picture of a beach and a seafront.。
Too many Christians are sitting on a beach waiting for the sea to come in.。
"I haven't heard from God yet. I'm just going to sit here."。
When God is saying, "Put your foot in the water."。
"See what the water is like and I'll take you."。
That will activate the power of the Spirit.。
That's your call today.。
Don't give the enemy a seat at your table.。
You can win the battle for your mind.。
Don't give in to sin, despair or darkness.。
Take every thought captive.。
Bind every thought that doesn't come from God.。
Fill your mind with goodness and the richness of Scripture.。
Memorize with Scripture.。
This is just a start but start with this.。
Memorize the Scripture and become as Michelle told us,。
the DJ of your mind.。
Letting thoughts of God consistently fill your heart and life.。
My friends, surrender your life completely to Jesus。
and He will lead you to green pastures and quiet waters.。
He will lead you through dark valleys because you don't ever need to fear.。
You will not be in want because Jesus will restore your soul.。
Jesus will lead you to a table in the presence of your enemies。
but there's nothing to worry about because your head is dripping with anointing.。
Your cup overflows with abundance。
and goodness and mercy are following you all the days of your life.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
