- Good evening, everyone.。
And good morning to those who will be watching tomorrow morning.。
I'm just so thankful tonight that I get to share on the topic,。
"Take Every Thought Captive,"。
and so that we can really align it with God's heart.。
It's one that's really big on my heart。
because I believe that I've struggled so much with it。
and yet because of God, I've overcame it.。
And sometimes I might fall into it again,。
but I know for certain that I have the tools because of Christ。
that I can overcome it again.。
So let's start off.。
How many thoughts do you think we have in one day?。
Anyone want to take a wild guess?。
How many thoughts?。
A hundred.。
Okay, anyone want to give more than a hundred?。
A hundred thousand, wow.。
Okay, somewhere in between that range, okay,。
is actually 6,000 thoughts.。
We have 6,000 thoughts according to Queen's University,。
their study shows.。
Now, if we're awake for about a good 16 hours,。
that would mean about 6.25 thoughts in one minute.。
So just within this one minute,。
6.25 thoughts just flew by in your mind.。
So my other question to you is,。
how many of you think you can actually control what you think?。
Now, I'm going to take a poll again, okay?。
We don't have a QR code for this,。
let's do it the old-fashioned way.。
If you think you have control over your thoughts,。
you can put up your hand like this.。
If you think you have control over your thoughts sometimes,。
you can kind of go like this.。
And if you think you don't,。
just keep your hands on your lap, okay?。
All right, one, two, three, show of hands.。
All right, we've got like one of this。
and about a good handful of these.。
And some of those,。
I don't think you have control over your arms, right?。
So just keeping it down there.。
Yeah, so what we do find is,。
do we or do we not have this ability?。
Now, according to the Bible,。
actually the title kind of gives it away。
'cause it says take every thought captive.。
So according to the Bible, we can,。
we have the ability to,。
but you are actually all correct。
when you either put up your hand this way,。
this way or this way。
because our experiences tell us otherwise.。
Sometimes it seems like we can。
but sometimes it seems like we can't.。
And maybe for some of us,。
we've never even thought about what we thought of.。
So all of those were correct。
because those were your experiences。
and yet the truth tells us。
that we can indeed capture every thought。
and make it obedient to Christ.。
So tonight we're gonna talk about。
why we even bother to do that。
and what does it really mean to capture。
and then make it obedient to Christ。
and how we're gonna do that.。
So just three things.。
And so the,。
so the very first thing that we wanna look at。
is a few verses, few, when I say few today。
it will be a little bit longer, but stick with me.。
It will be from Numbers chapter 13 to 14.。
Now, before that, I wanna give you。
a little bit of a background on what happened, okay?。
Some of you may already heard this and know it,。
but I do wanna say it for those。
who might be here new or are not very familiar.。
So in Exodus, we see that the Israelites。
have been slaves for 400 years.。
And in Egypt, and so they're calling out to God,。
"God, save us, we don't wanna be slaves anymore."。
And God hears their prayers and sends Moses。
to help them by being their leader to lead them out.。
Now, Pharaoh, do you think he would want these people to go?。
No, okay, yeah, no, he doesn't.。
Why not?。
Because this is like cheap labor, right?。
Who wants cheap labor to go?。
No one wants them to go.。
So God then performs these 10 miraculous signs。
or miraculous ways to save them.。
Of course, it's miraculous to the Israelites,。
but they're actually plagues to the Egyptians.。
And so after 10 of them, Egypt's almost wiped out.。
And so Pharaoh says, "Oh, yes, please go.。
"We don't want you here anymore.。
"You're causing more trouble than good."。
And so they leave, and of course,。
the Egyptians change their mind, chase after them,。
and we hear the famous story about how God parts the Red Sea。
and they walk through it on dry ground.。
And then as the Egyptians go through,。
the waters come back, and then they all die.。
So we were thinking, all right, everything from now on。
is gonna be smooth sailing, right?。
Not quite, because the Israelites are in the desert now,。
and they're grumbling like, "Oh, there's no food, no water."。
And so they travel to this promised land。
in which God has promised to their forefathers, okay?。
So, so far, I think some of you have heard these before.。
And so we arrive to Numbers chapter 13 and 14,。
where they have arrived at pretty much the border。
of where the promised land would be.。
And so Moses sends out 12 spies,。
and he decides that let's gather some information,。
survey the land, so then we will know what's happening.。
So after 40 days, these are the accounts,。
and there were 10 spies, so he sends out 12.。
10 of them said, "The people who live there are powerful,。
"and the cities are fortified, very large.。
"We can't attack those people.。
"They are stronger than we are.。
"The land we explore devours those living in it.。
"All the people we saw are a great size.。
"We seem like grasshoppers."。
And so on the other hand, we still got two other spies,。
the famous Caleb and also, what's the other one?。
Joshua.。
But Caleb says something first, and he says,。
"We should go up and take possession of the land,。
"for we can certainly do it."。
Now, having heard these two accounts,。
now we have the rest of the Israelites,。
which were about 2 million people, okay?。
So they're listening to these accounts,。
and this is what they say.。
"They grumbled against Moses and Aaron,。
"and the whole assembly said to them,。
"'If only we had died in Egypt or in this desert!。
"'Why is the Lord bringing us to this land。
"'only to let us fall by the sword?。
"'Our wives and children would be taken as plunder.。
"'Wouldn't it be better for us to go back to Egypt?'。
"And they said to each other,。
"'We should choose a leader and go back to Egypt.'"。
And then Joshua, hearing this, Joshua and Caleb says,。
"Wait, wait, wait, wait!"。
And then they're like, they tore their clothes,。
because that was a way for them to express。
how deeply sorrowed they were.。
And then they said to the entire Israelite assembly,。
"The land we passed through and explored is exceedingly good."。
So obviously very different than the other account.。
And it says, "If the Lord is pleased with us,。
"He will lead us into that land,。
"a land flowing with milk and honey,。
"and will give it to us.。
"Only do not rebel against the Lord。
"and do not be afraid of the people of the land,。
"because we will swallow them up,。
"and their protection is gone.。
"But the Lord is with us.。
"Do not be afraid of them."。
Now, after hearing this,。
do you think the Israelites were pumped up?。
Yeah, let's go take the land.。
No, they weren't.。
And instead, this is what happens.。
But the whole assembly talked about stoning them.。
Now having all this, you know, God's not dead, right?。
He's not deaf either.。
He can hear everything.。
And so God appears to all of Israelites,。
and then He tells Moses,。
"I'm gonna destroy them."。
And he's so disappointed.。
And Moses pleaded with God, "Please forgive them."。
And God forgave them.。
But nonetheless, God made up His mind。
about what would be their outcome.。
And to the Israelite assemblies,。
the whole of Israelites,。
which was about two million people, He said,。
"Not one of the man who disobeyed me。
"and tested me 10 times."。
Now 10 times, not really an exact number,。
but meaning many times here.。
"Will ever see the land I promise。
"on oath to their forefathers.。
"No one who has treated me with contempt。
"will ever see it.。
"In this desert, your bodies will fall.。
"Every one of you, 20 years old or more,。
"who has grumbled against me.。
"Your children will be shepherds here for 40 years,。
"suffering for your unfaithfulness。
"until the last of your bodies dies in the desert.。
"For 40 years, you will suffer for your sins。
"and know what it is like to have me against you.。
"I will surely do these things。
"to the whole wicked community。
"which has banded together against me.。
"In this desert, here they will die."。
Now, I purposely didn't skip these verses。
by just telling you the outcome。
because I wanted you to see the words。
that come out of the mouth of God。
and how much that he detested it.。
Now, to the 10 spies, remember the 10 that went,。
this is his verdict.。
"These men responsible for spreading the bad report。
"about the land were struck down。
"and died of plague before the Lord."。
So these 10 died literally right there.。
Now, of course, a very favorable verdict。
to Joshua and Caleb, God said,。
"Because my servant Caleb has a different spirit。
"and follows me wholeheartedly,。
"I will bring him into the land he went to。
"and his descendants will inherit it.。
"Not one of the Israelites will enter the land I swore,。
"except Caleb and Joshua."。
Actually, when you read this account,。
I don't know about you, but I have a shivering feeling。
because you see, God had intended。
for every one of the Israelites。
to enter into his promised land,。
but not everyone made it.。
Only two out of how many?。
Two million, okay, so this is a very, very odd,。
this is very low percentage.。
And what does that tell us?。
You know, if we don't think right,。
we're not going to live right.。
And if we're not gonna live right,。
we are not going to enter into God's plan for us.。
And so this brings us to our first point.。
Why do we need to take every thought captive to Christ?。
Because our thoughts determine our destiny.。
Now, sometimes we have this idea, you know,。
oh, God has everything planned out, so you know what?。
I'll just kind of wing my way through,。
whatever I do doesn't matter,。
because I will eventually get to whatever it is。
that God wants me to have.。
But according to this account, when we see it,。
it doesn't seem to suggest this way.。
This actually tells us that some people made it。
into God's intended plan, and some people didn't.。
Now, I don't know about you,。
but I definitely want to be one of those who made it。
to the promised land, whatever it is that he has in store for me.。
So this is why taking every thought captive is important.。
So let's look at what it means to do that.。
But notice in 2 Corinthians,。
earlier when we looked at the verse, "Take captive,"。
which in those days, if they had read it in Apostle Paul's time,。
they would be thinking about war.。
So when you take captive of someone, it means to imprison them,。
meaning that person would not have any freedom,。
they would not have a say in terms of what they could eat,。
where they could go, what they would be able to do.。
And that's what it means to take captive.。
Now, in a similar way, that's what we want to do with our thoughts.。
But how does that work?。
Because it's easier if it's a physical person.。
I can just hold on to James.。
Maybe not him, he's stronger.。
I've got to find someone not as strong as me.。
Okay, maybe I'll go to the kids' room.。
You know, hold on to him, right?。
But what about our thoughts?。
How do we do that?。
And so this brings us to our second point,。
that in order to take captive of every thought,。
we first need to catch the wrong thoughts.。
So we need to identify what the wrong thoughts are.。
In order to capture it.。
Now, if we looked at the earlier account, right,。
remember what the ten spies were like.。
We'll look at what they said, right?。
They said, "We can't attack them.。
They're stronger than we are.。
And the land that we exploit is devouring the people in it.。
We're like grasshoppers."。
I mean, what is it that you see about these people?。
Is that they're pessimists.。
I might even call them extreme pessimists。
because they over-exaggerate.。
Because imagine if that person had been like a grasshopper,。
then their opponent would have to actually be like 15 stories high.。
So obviously we don't see anybody that tall.。
So what we see is this, if we have pessimist thoughts,。
they're actually wrong thoughts that will lead us to wrong beliefs.。
And I mean, sometimes we might think of it,。
like everyday life, we have a lot of thoughts going on.。
And it might be that we might think, "This can't be done.。
This is never going to work."。
Or if I'm a newcomer, or even if I'm an old comer,。
I come in, no one says hi to me.。
So I'm thinking, "You know what?。
No one likes me."。
And if it keeps going in a pessimistic direction,。
"No one ever likes me.。
Why do I, I shouldn't even live on."。
You know, so it's like a spiral of negativity that we go in.。
So catch it.。
That's the first wrong thought, first type of wrong thought.。
And the second one that we see is from the Israelite assemblies.。
I mean, what do we see them like?。
They said, "If only we had died in Egypt."。
So they would rather die in Egypt than to try to get this land。
that they're about to go in.。
"Why does the Lord bring us here?。
Wouldn't it be better for us if we're back in Egypt to be slaves?。
Why don't we just get another leader and let's go back?"。
What kind of people are these?。
Well, they're faithless and grumbling ones.。
I don't know if you know any of them around,。
but they're not fun to be with because they grumble about everything.。
You know, you can do a very nice, you know,。
you can finish, you know, a nice meal with 10 dishes,。
and they might be the one that says, "Wait, this one doesn't have enough onions on it."。
Right?。
Or like if you--it might be something small,。
like maybe if we miss the minibus or, you know, we're like,。
"Oh, why did our neighbors come out at this--the same time。
so I can't press the elevator fast enough to catch this bus?"。
And they seem to like blame stuff on like just everyone.。
Okay?。
And they grumble not against--not only against people,。
but notice they also grumble against God.。
"Why did God let this happen?。
Why did God let me meet that person?。
Why did he bring me to this job?。
Why did he give me this child?"。
You know?。
Okay, hopefully none of you think that way.。
Not a parent yet, so I can't say much about that.。
And so this is another kind of wrong thinking, grumbling.。
Okay?。
And also faithless.。
Instead of what?。
Bringing the issue that we have to God,。
we actually bring the issue against God.。
We're saying that--they're saying that God's against us the whole time.。
So now that we know what the wrong thoughts are,。
of course we turn to the right thought.。
And you know who they are, Caleb and Joshua.。
Now look at them.。
They said, "We should go up, take possession of the land,。
and we can certainly do it."。
And they said, "The land is exceedingly good."。
And this is a true account,。
because those spies actually brought back some abundant fruits.。
Okay?。
So unlike the other account, which was untrue.。
And if the Lord--notice, I love how they put the Lord into the equation。
in a positive way.。
"If the Lord is pleased with us, he will lead us.。
The Lord is with us.。
Do not be afraid of them."。
And you know, when God gave his verdict about them,。
I really liked how he said it.。
He said they had a different spirit.。
A different spirit.。
And these people, you know, whenever they're faced with challenges,。
they're able to bring it to God.。
They say, "God will deliver us.。
He will provide a way.。
He's going to get us a solution.。
Somehow he's going to make us be able to go through it."。
And these are the people that if we happen to be on those wrong thoughts,。
you know what?。
Which means that we have a different spirit than they do,。
sometimes we kind of want to stone them.。
Don't you?。
Because you might be like, "Oh, everything's so hard," you know?。
And then they say all these positive things, and you're like,。
"I can't stand you."。
And that might be because we're in a different spirit,。
which means that we have colliding thoughts.。
But these people are the people that we need to learn from.。
And, all right, so now you know why, because it will cause our destiny。
if we don't take captive of our thoughts.。
And now that we know what we need to take captives of,。
which are these wrong thoughts.。
All right, so I know I'm doing these things,。
but what am I going to do about them?。
All right, this is where we continue on to see how we can bring them。
obedient to Christ.。
It really, you know, if I have to make you think of an image,。
it's kind of like catching butterflies.。
Okay, I know, I don't know where you guys are now, but just go with me.。
Catching butterflies, right?。
So you caught it, what are you going to do with it?。
You are going to put it in a confined space,。
I mean, unless it was just for the fun of catching it,。
but you're going to put it maybe in an aquarium,。
somewhere where you're going to keep it in a confined area.。
And this is exactly what we're going to do with our thought.。
Instead of letting it continue on,。
remember the spiral of negativity or those grumbling, you know,。
we can go on all day thinking those negative thoughts, right?。
So when we capture it, we're going to confine it.。
And the moment is like saying, wait a minute,。
I don't think God wants me to think this thought.。
I don't think it's even biblical.。
And that's the moment you've actually imagined with me.。
That's the moment you actually caught it.。
Okay, so now you're going to put it into a spot, right?。
That's God's word.。
So we're going to go to our third point,。
which is after you caught the wrong thoughts,。
then focus your thoughts on God.。
Now, how do you do that?。
Well, by looping your thoughts with God's truth over and over,。
then there's no easier way for me to put it。
than to call it a godly brainwash.。
I don't know if you've ever done that,。
but it's a godly brainwash of truth.。
Now, Louis Giglio likes to call it DJing your thoughts,。
and I think both of them work.。
And so what we can do is to open the Bible or to read it,。
to listen to a sermon or to read a book full of biblical truth。
where we then, instead of being influenced。
and dwell in that negativity,。
we are starting to influence those thoughts.。
And we will then be putting it obedient to Christ.。
And so next time, when you're going through。
and you caught that thought, you have to turn it to God.。
And now I want to turn to Psalm 3。
to give you kind of an example of how King David,。
when he was being chased by his son,。
now not to have fun,。
his son wasn't chasing him to play tennis with him.。
He was chasing him so he can take over his throne and to kill him.。
He was in such a distressed moment.。
Maybe if we were grumbling, we would say,。
"God, why did you ever let me have this son?"。
or "Why did you even make me king?"。
Or if we're really negative, he might say,。
"Why make me king so then I would die in my own son's hand?"。
That would be a negative thought.。
But in here, he does not.。
And I want to share with you how he does it。
by not brainwashing for him.。
He's already taken it in, so it's part of him.。
And so I didn't put out verse 1 and 2,。
but verse 1 and 2 said,。
"Lord, how many are my foes?。
How many rise up against me?。
Many are even saying, 'God will not deliver me.'"。
This is where it turns.。
This is where he puts his thought in obedient to Christ.。
He says, "But you, Lord, are a shield around me,。
my glory, the one who lifts my head high.。
I call out to the Lord and he answers me.。
The Lord sustains me.。
I will not fear, though tens of thousands assail me on every side.。
Arise, Lord, deliver me, my God.。
Strike all my enemies on the jaw.。
Break the teeth of the wicked."。
See how he does not dwell on the negativity.。
It's not that he doesn't have this problem, okay?。
His son is still trying to kill him.。
But he turns his thought to God and he says, "But you."。
He doesn't look at the situation.。
He turns to God for who he is, his character,。
and how he has the ability to deliver him.。
And that's what we need to do.。
When we focus our thoughts on God,。
we will please him and he will lead us into his plans。
as he was pleased with Joshua and Caleb.。
Now I want to share a personal example with you.。
As I shared, I think, some months ago,。
that in the past I had broken up with an eligible bachelor。
when I was around 29 years old.。
And I got quite depressed and pessimistic。
to the point where I thought to myself,。
I'm never gonna find anybody to be with。
that would love me and be as good to me.。
And all the Christian guys that are leftover,。
not leftover, sorry.。
I mean, that are not taken.。
(congregation laughing)。
Obviously, these are lies, right?。
You know that.。
That are not taken.。
Kind of not my type, you know.。
And so these negative thoughts would just come and come。
and would cloud me to an extreme point。
where I became just so hopeless.。
I really remember looking out the window and thought,。
you know, why bother?。
There's nothing good left for me.。
You see how that spiral can go down.。
It was so sad.。
But at the same time, I was like, but I'm a Christian.。
If I commit suicide, not sure if I make it to heaven.。
You know, you have that, it's a Christian struggle.。
And knowing my faith, you know,。
the little ounce that I still had,。
I did not, but I prayed the prayer.。
I'm not sure if some of you have ever prayed it,。
which is, God, please take me home.。
'Cause you can't do anything actively about it,。
but you would pray that prayer。
'cause you're in such a distressed moment.。
And so I still remember at that time,。
I probably grumbled to God as well.。
Like, why didn't things work out for me?。
I've been a Christian for so many years.。
You know, why don't you just make it smoother for me?。
Everybody else is smoother.。
And so I would grumble against him.。
And I'm not saying that we can't have any emotions.。
Please don't feel like we can't even talk to God,。
'cause that's not what I want you to take away.。
But instead of grumbling, remember, add God.。
Bring your issue to God.。
It's a very, very big difference.。
And so I was so weak at that point.。
Remember I said, oh, you can open your Bible to read。
or things like that.。
I wasn't even able to do that.。
So what I did, I guess it's another promotion for YouTube, right?。
We said the goodness of YouTube.。
Gotta have a song on that.。
Is that I landed on sermons by Joyce Meyer,。
one of my favorite preachers.。
And she just had these motivative sermons。
where she spoke the truth so well and so powerfully.。
It helped me.。
She told me that God loves you.。
God has a plan for you.。
And your story's not over yet.。
And there's more to come.。
And God's powerful to say,。
you're the head and not the tail, above and not beneath.。
And even though those scriptures,。
they're truly scriptures, but she spoke them out.。
And that was when it gave me power.。
It was almost like, not almost,。
it was the moment when I captured those thoughts。
and it was in obedience with God.。
And I had this surge.。
I'm like, oh, yes, I can do it.。
And guess how long it lasted.。
(audience laughing)。
One hour.。
(audience laughing)。
And all those wrong thoughts came back and I'm like,。
oh, I'm never gonna make it.。
And then I'll be like, okay,。
let's press the sermon again.。
And oh, I'm charged.。
So I'm like, it's just like a rollercoaster ride。
where I'm like, oh, I'm dying.。
Oh, I'm charged, I'm dying, I'm charged.。
And to a point where I'm like, oh my gosh,。
I think I'm just gonna,。
my head's just gonna explode or something.。
But there was, you know,。
the frequency then began slowly to increase.。
So instead of one hour apart, you know,。
slowly it was two hours apart。
before I needed an extra dose of God's truth, right?。
And then before I know it, it's three hours, four hours,。
half a day, one day, one week, a week and a half.。
And maybe I fall back to two days and, you know,。
it bounced back and forth.。
And eventually one month, two months, a year.。
And now I just listened to it to get more knowledge,。
not for the boost.。
And what do I wanna say?。
Well, you see, I could have died in that moment.。
Not that I, I don't think I actually would have,。
but what more was, I could have withered away,。
which meant that I can just continue to live on。
being a weakless Christian going like,。
oh, my days, oh, let's go to work, you know.。
I could have continued the rest of my life like that,。
couldn't I?。
But because of God's grace and how he taught me,。
take captive of those thoughts, the wrong ones,。
make them obedient to Christ.。
And he used that method to help me.。
And for you, it can be other things.。
It doesn't have to be that.。
It can be like listening to KFCI sermons。
over and over again, right?。
And whatever it may be,。
we need to make it obedient to Christ.。
And when we do, I mean, my life has turned around。
and I believe just like in Numbers chapter 13 and 14,。
yours will too, yours will too.。
And really, I believe I walked into God's plan.。
I mean, I'm standing here today,。
which I don't think I could have。
if I continued with those negative thoughts,。
with those grumbling and faithless thoughts.。
But when we begin to think right,。
do you know what's the most important thing?。
Is that we please our God.。
That's what it said.。
Remember what Joshua and Caleb said?。
If God is pleased with us,。
he will lead us into that land.。
And I wanna say with your faithful thoughts,。
if you make it obedient to Christ,。
following him in terms of just。
repeatedly thinking about his goodness,。
thinking about how he's gonna deliver you,。
slowly let that become your belief。
that pleases God.。
And I don't know, when you please God,。
I don't know where he's gonna take you,。
but it's gonna be far, it's gonna be good.。
It's gonna be that land flowing with milk and honey.。
And I wanna be there and I want all of us to be there.。
All of us, not two out of 2 million,。
but all of us.。
And so my friends, I don't know what issues。
you're facing right now or maybe in the future.。
Is it getting through exams and thinking,。
oh, I'm never gonna make it, it's so hard.。
Am I gonna pass this year?。
Or is it getting careers so that it can be something。
that you like and also has a stable income?。
Or is it to find a godly boyfriend or girlfriend?。
Or is it to want a harmonious relationship。
with your spouse or with your kids?。
Or maybe it's getting your family members。
to come to church, that might be a hurticle.。
A hurticle, what is that?。
(laughs)。
Hurdle.。
And did I just make up a new word?。
(audience laughs)。
Or is it to have your unbearable co-worker。
and how to deal with it?。
Or is it to have better health?。
Whatever it is, take Psalm, one of those prayers。
and just say, yes, I'm facing this problem。
and then say, but you, my God,。
is the one who protects me, is the one who lifts my head,。
is the one who will make a way for me,。
is the one who loves me.。
And if you do that, I believe that it will please God。
and God will lead you into his plans。
and you will fulfill it and you'll see the promised land.。
Not see it, 'cause a lot of people see it.。
You'll be in the promised land.。
And sometimes, I just wanna make another note,。
it might not be a big issue.。
Start with the smaller ones.。
Remember my missing the minibus example?。
Start with the smaller ones.。
You don't have to be in a devastating situation。
I don't want you to be in.。
But try to catch the small ones.。
When you make a mistake, you're like,。
oh, I can never do anything right.。
That's the moment you catch it.。
Or when you feel like, oh, that co-worker。
or that friend just did this to me.。
Why did I even meet them?。
That's the moment you catch it.。
They're just small things, but start with those.。
And then our faith will continue to grow.。
Because when we think right。
and have the thoughts that God wanted us to have,。
what will we need to fear?。
There's nothing to fear, because we know who is with us.。
It is the almighty God.。
He is with us.。
Whom shall we fear?。
So I really pray, this is my prayer,。
that all of us enter into the land of milk and honey.。
Let us pray together.。
Dear heavenly Father,。
we thank you so much for your goodness.。
You're our God.。
You're the one who saved us,。
who has given your son, Jesus Christ, to us.。
You will not withhold anything good from us.。
And Father, we pray that in all circumstances,。
no matter how big, how small, how challenging it may be,。
so challenging that we feel like we cannot overcome,。
that Father, in that moment, help us take our thoughts captive,。
know what the wrong thoughts are.。
Help us, Father, to repeatedly proclaim who you are。
and how good you are to us.。
And Father, we know you are with us the whole time.。
And we just want to thank you.。
You're the awesome God.。
You are with us.。
We shall not fear anything that is ahead.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
