We get to worship together.。
We get to hear God's word together.。
And we get equipped to go into the world.。
So please join with us in the way that you feel comfortable as we worship God with all。
our heart, soul, mind and strength.。
Let the King of my heart be the mountain where I run,。
the fountain I drink from, oh He is my song.。
Let the King of my heart be the shadow where I hide,。
the ransom for my life, oh He is my song.。
You are good, good, oh.。
You are good, good, oh.。
You are good, good, oh.。
You are good, good, oh.。
Let the King of my heart be the wind inside myself,。
the anchor in the waves, oh He is my song.。
Let the King of my heart be the fire inside my veins,。
the echo of my days, oh He is my song.。
You are good, good, oh.。
You are good, good, oh.。
You are good, good, oh.。
You are good, good, oh.。
You're never gonna let, you're never gonna let me down.。
You're never gonna let, you're never gonna let me down.。
You are good, good, good You are good, good, good。
You're never gonna let me down You're never gonna let, you're never gonna let me down。
You're never gonna let, you're never gonna let me down。
You're never gonna let, you're never gonna let me down。
You're never gonna let, you're never gonna let me down。
You are good, good, oh You are good, good, oh。
You are good, good, oh You are good, good, oh。
(Instrumental)。
Jesus, what a Savior What a brother, what a friend。
Lifter of the lonely God, You meet me where I am。
Jesus, what a Savior What a brother, what a friend。
Lifter of the lonely God, You meet me where I am。
Your heart, it knows No borders, no walls。
You're constantly moving towards me With open arms。
I've never known a love like yours I've never known a love like yours。
I've never known a love like yours Never known a love like yours。
Sing Jesus。
Jesus, what a Savior What a brother, what a friend。
Lifter of the lonely God, You meet me where I am。
Your heart, it knows No borders, no walls。
You're constantly moving towards me With open arms。
I've never known a love like yours I've never known a love like yours。
Hallelujah。
Hallelujah, Hallelujah What a beautiful way You've shown us。
Hallelujah, Hallelujah What a wonderful Savior。
Hallelujah, Hallelujah What a beautiful way You've shown us。
Hallelujah, Hallelujah What a wonderful Savior。
I've never known a love like yours I've never known a love like yours。
Jesus, what a Savior What a brother, what a friend。
Lifter of the lonely God, You meet me where I am。
You're constantly moving towards me With open arms。
I've never known a love like yours I've never known a love like yours。
Next week is the first week of May. And yes, we'll still be online, but with a difference.。
I know how much we've enjoyed worshipping together online.。
And next week, we will join with all the international churches in Hong Kong for one combined service.。
And you'll be able to watch it at our normal time of 5.30 on a Saturday afternoon.。
Join us for One Church Hong Kong.。
Hi KFCI. So some of us have been preparing some care packages to hand out to the poor, the needy.。
And we've contacted the Christian Concern for the Homeless Association to just partner up with them and see what kind of supplies we can,。
or what kind of care and help we can provide for them, especially in this time of the epidemic.。
So if you'd be interested, we have outreach opportunities with them on the 12th of May, which is a Tuesday night from 7 to 9.15 p.m.。
at Sham Shui Po or Cheung San Lan. If you're interested, just let me know. Email KFCI@conflict.org so I can just get you guys in touch.。
Hey guys, last time we talked to you about an exciting opportunity that we're going to be starting.。
Alpha. And once again, Alpha is a course that we're going to be doing online through Zoom, where your friends can know more about Jesus.。
We can discuss some of the life tough questions and have some good spiritual discussions together.。
I hope you'll scan the QR code and join us and invite some of the friends that might be interested.。
Now we're going to pray and pray for the church and especially our service, joint service next week.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you that even though things in this world are vulnerable, people are vulnerable, people are sick because of the virus,。
that Lord, you are still sovereign. You are still in control.。
And we ask that Lord, you would empower those who are in charge to make the right decisions,。
that you would empower those medical workers to make the right decisions to help people.。
And I pray that Lord, those who are sick will be able to draw strength from you and turn to you.。
And Lord, we pray for the churches in Hong Kong, that Lord, that they would be pillars of light to be a city on a hill for this time.。
I pray for our joint service next week, that as we gather together, that Lord, you would unite us as one to worship you,。
to pray for our city, to pray for each other and to encourage each other.。
In Christ's name we pray, Amen.。
And now, let's pass the time to Pastor James.。
Hello KSCI, it's a joy to be able to bring you the word today as we finish off the series on Jesus as King.。
Through these last few weeks, we've been going through and exploring Jesus' kingship through the book of Matthew.。
And today, we look at the final topic, the King's request.。
Last week we had the resurrection at the beginning of Matthew 28, and today we finish this chapter and the whole book on the Great Commission.。
You see, it's through the resurrection that Jesus' kingship has now been confirmed.。
His kingship has been established and now a response is demanded.。
Jesus is commissioning out his disciples to go, to make disciples of all nations.。
And today, as we go through these verses here, I pray that God really stirs up in you a heart for mission, a heart for living out our calling in this world that is full of bad news, to really commit to spreading the good news.。
So the first verse that I want to go through is this.。
Jesus says, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me."。
See, because of the resurrection, the scope of Jesus' authority is now the universe.。
I'm reminded of Philippians 2 where the Apostle Paul writes, "Jesus didn't count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but he submitted himself to God's will obediently, even to the point of death on a cross.。
And because of that, and because he was raised alive, God now has bestowed upon him the name that is above every name, and that every knee should bow, that every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord."。
That is so in line with what Jesus is talking about here in Matthew 28.。
And I'm reminded of the beginning of Jesus' ministry.。
In Matthew 4, where after he's baptised and after the heavens open and God declares him his son, Jesus is led into the wilderness and the enemy tempts him and says, "Hey, bow before me and I will give you all the kingdoms of the world."。
Just, that's all you have to do, just bow before me.。
And Jesus resists that temptation.。
He knows that he had to go through the cross, but by going through the cross he now has authority over heaven and earth.。
So much more than what the enemy promised.。
And so after that, the next verse is this, "Because of that authority, go therefore and make disciples of all nations."。
Because of that authority, a new era of ministry was being ushered in.。
That now the disciples would take this good news, take this gospel to the ends of the earth, to all nations.。
And the word there in the Bible is "taethne", to all races, to all cultures.。
To take it to them.。
I'm reminded of Acts 1a where Jesus says, "You will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth."。
This was the moment that a new ministry was beginning.。
And so because of this authority we go.。
Because of this authority we go in confidence.。
The guy that we're talking about just defeated death.。
Death itself.。
We have no more reason to fear.。
He is in control of heaven and earth.。
He is in complete control.。
We are in his hands and we have nothing to fear.。
So therefore, go.。
And this command to go is a command.。
It's not an option.。
It's not a recommendation.。
It's not a suggestion.。
Hey, if you feel like it, go.。
You see, so often for us in this day and age we make so many excuses, right?。
We think we're too busy.。
It's too hard to go to those people.。
They're too busy.。
And they're probably not receptive anyway.。
And actually, well, I'm probably not very good at explaining this message.。
And it really shouldn't be me.。
It should be someone else.。
It should be those people who are missionaries.。
Maybe they should go.。
But you see, God's command is for all of us to go and make disciples of all nations,。
to not give excuses.。
And especially during a time like this, where we have the coronavirus,。
the world needs the church.。
You know, I read an article recently which said,。
"If the church isn't relevant to a world in the grip of coronavirus,。
it isn't relevant at all."。
You know, the church, the early church was birthed through crisis,。
changes in circumstance.。
The adopted disciples, knowing that they needed to do something different,。
to change their lives, were transformed after the resurrection.。
We now have this unique opportunity.。
The church has this unique opportunity to be God's hands and feet.。
Are we willing to take that up, or are we still making excuses for ourselves?。
Are we thinking, "We're just too busy. They're too busy.。
It's just not right. I'm not equipped for it."。
Is there all of that going on?。
Or maybe we just want to focus ourselves.。
My question is, where is the church during this time?。
It's the thing that I've been convicted with.。
What are we doing as Christ's body?。
Or are we simply being ostriches and just burying our heads in the ground,。
hoping for things to get back to normal soon so we can go about our daily routines?。
I'm going to be starting to work with a missions organization called Young Life.。
While still partnering and staying with Kongfolks, don't worry, I'm still going to be around.。
But Young Life's mission is to go to the people who are unreached,。
in particular, the next generation.。
We know from this last year in Hong Kong,。
we've seen a generation of young people in this city hurting and in pain.。
We recognize that we need to take the gospel to them.。
In fact, Young Life began 80 years ago in America in a church.。
In a church looking across the street and seeing a group of young people who they weren't reaching.。
And they decided, "Well, if they're not coming into the church, then we must go out."。
You know, a few months ago when we were gathering at KFCI in Admiralty on a Saturday evening,。
which seems like such a long time ago now,。
but there was a lot of unrest on the streets.。
And I remember just standing in the windows of our beautiful church building,。
which is just right there, the Far East Finance Center.。
And I remember just asking, "God, if we are called to reach these next generation people,。
if we are to reach these young people,。
if they're not coming in to hit this church, then how can we get out to them?"。
And that is why I'm joining Young Life,。
in order to hopefully partner with churches like Kongfolk,。
and other organizations around the city which are doing great work to reach the next generation,。
to go to them.。
This is totally in line with what Jesus' last request here for us is,。
the Great Commission, that we must go to make disciples of all nations.。
So the question really is, where is the church?。
Is it genuinely a living organism?。
Or is it merely an institution bound by walls?。
And right now we're not even allowed in our walls, not together at least.。
So why not use this opportunity to rethink how we do church,。
to rethink how we live out our faith,。
and really reach out to these people.。
Why? Because Christ died and rose again.。
And we are sharing with those this good news,。
that there is power in His resurrection.。
That is the message that we need to be carrying to the world right now.。
And you might be sitting here and asking,。
"Fine, I know I should go, I know I need to make disciples, but how?。
What do I even need to do?"。
And Jesus carries on here and gives us two very simple steps。
on what we really should be doing when we're making disciples of all nations.。
And the first one is to baptize them, and the second one is to teach them.。
And we'll go through each of these now.。
The first one, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit.。
That is the first step, is basically taking the Gospel to these people,。
taking it to them and saying, "Look, this world may be full of bad news right now,。
your life may be full of bad news and brokenness,。
but I want to share with you good news.。
And I want to encourage you to repent.。
Repent and turn from your old ways and follow God.。
Because if you follow God, He will lead you to a life that is abundant and fulfilled."。
And from there, as they turn from their old ways and as they get baptized,。
as they identify with Christ's death and also His resurrection,。
they then identify with God's covenant with His people,。
and they are now in communion with His body, together.。
Before, they were individuals, broken in sin, but as they become baptized, as they repent,。
they are now baptized into a community, a body that seeks to reflect Christ.。
And from there, you see Jesus saying, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit.。
Jesus is identifying Himself with God.。
He's declaring that He is God, that He is now seated at the right hand of God.。
He really is King.。
So we baptize them in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit.。
And then what do we do? We teach them to observe all that I have commanded you,。
all that Jesus has commanded.。
You see, I fear sometimes, modern day Christianity,。
we have taken a shortcut when it comes to evangelism.。
We take the gospel to them, we take people to the altar, and then we leave.。
And then we let them deal with their business.。
And our relationships are becoming more and more at risk of simply just being shallow and superficial.。
But what Jesus is saying here, to really make disciples, we need to invest in them。
and to live and engage in deep relationship with these people.。
In fact, Jesus Himself did this.。
His strategy to rescue the world, to save the world,。
was to focus on a group of three people, of twelve people, of seventy-two, and a few hundreds,。
and let that multiply.。
And He focused on living with those twelve disciples for three whole years.。
Living with them, staying in the same place with them, travelling with them, walking long walks with them,。
doing life together with them.。
Not just doing an evangelistic conference or an event,。
but rather the way we are going to make disciples is to engage in deep relationship.。
Now I think back to myself, some of the most rewarding years of discipleship that Christina and I。
have experienced in these last few years is when we really got to do life together with some of our disciples.。
It wasn't just meeting them on Sundays and having refreshments after service,。
or doing a jock jamming session here and there.。
It was actually having them live with us.。
It was actually having them eat with us, do the dishes with us, do our laundry with us.。
And that was when we grew the most.。
And that's when they were able to grow the most.。
Deep discipleship here is key.。
Getting involved in each other's lives, earning the right to be heard.。
Let us commit to doing that.。
Another thing about teaching people to observe what Jesus commanded is the prerequisite is that。
we ourselves are observing what Jesus commanded.。
We need to be following Christ ourselves.。
And going back to Young Life, one of the things that really drew my heart towards it was。
their mission statement is very simple.。
To introduce adolescents to Jesus Christ.。
To introduce adolescents to Jesus.。
And I was really reflecting on this as I was praying about this.。
One thing that really came up for me was, if I'm going to be introducing the next generation to Jesus,。
I'd better get to know Jesus well myself.。
I'd best be observing the things that he's commanded of me.。
Because otherwise, who am I even introducing?。
When I was a science teacher back in England, I'd be teaching all different students science experiments.。
I remember teaching the Year 7s the starch iodine test, where you have a bit of iodine and you do a couple of drops。
onto a cracker and then you see that if starch is present it turns black.。
Before every experiment, I would first have to do a demonstration.。
To show them how to do it.。
It's only them can they copy and follow.。
That is exactly the same with discipleship.。
Another example is when I was coaching the school basketball team.。
If I wanted to teach these players a lay-up, I would first have to demonstrate a lay-up first.。
I would first have to show them how to do a lay-up, that I can do a lay-up myself.。
And then for them to observe and then to imitate and watch.。
As we make disciples, we have to be committed to observing Jesus' commandments ourselves.。
Once we do that, we are then able to engage in their lives and show them how to live lives that are following God.。
Jesus then finishes the book of Matthew.。
These final words here, with just this beautiful reminder encouragement.。
"Behold, I am with you always."。
"I am with you always."。
"He is with us."。
He is the most perfect storyteller here.。
He takes us full circle back to Matthew 1.23 when it was said, "He shall be called Emmanuel."。
"God with us."。
Jesus reminds us that as we go out on this mission, we will be accompanied by Him.。
I don't know about you, but sometimes I feel that it's hard to really feel Jesus' presence.。
It's hard to see Him.。
What I've seen from this passage here, these few verses, is that we have some clues as to what may be able to help us see and feel Jesus more.。
And the first is this. It says, "Behold, I am with you always."。
The word "you" there in the original language refers to a plural sense, "you all".。
So it's basically to say, "I will be with you all."。
What this tells me is this.。
Jesus is most visible when we are in community.。
When we as His body are together.。
Now, I know it's a strange time right now. We're all socially and physically distanced.。
But we need to maximise whatever we have.。
Technology, Zoom, Facebook Live, YouTube Lives, WhatsApp.。
We need to use all these to the best of our ability to replicate, to imitate what community is.。
To do it to the best of our abilities.。
But then also recognising, and I definitely have felt this, even though we have all this technology,。
I've also become so grateful and I yearn so much to be together again physically.。
To be in community together.。
And the Hebrew writer tells us to stop, to never neglect meeting each other.。
To never stop staring each other in love.。
And I pray that once these guidelines loosen, once the coronavirus subsides,。
that we will have a fresh level of motivation to get together again.。
To be together, to commune. It's because when we commune together, when we are together,。
Jesus is the most visible. That is when we see and feel Him the most.。
That is when we are reminded that we are not alone.。
Because we have each other and together we form His body.。
And the second is this. I will be with you always.。
And for me, this is in the context of the Great Commission,。
I will be with you always when you are on mission.。
Sometimes I feel that I lack awareness of Jesus' presence or I don't feel Him as much.。
And I wonder whether it's because it's during those times where I've almost lost sight of the vision.。
I've been so caught up with sometimes work, with the distractions of this world,。
that I've lost sight of the mission.。
You see, when we are on mission, that is when we feel the presence of Jesus the most.。
So if you, brother, sister, are feeling like you are distanced from Jesus,。
my two encouragements to you is this.。
Get connected with your fellow brothers and sisters.。
Whether it's over technology for now, or whether as soon as you are able to be with each other physically.。
After that, engage in mission.。
If we would commit to being His body and being a moving body, a moving living organism,。
I am sure that we will be able to feel the presence of Jesus in our lives.。
And he finishes with this.。
"Behold, I am with you always to the end of the age."。
Jesus is putting a final full stop on the story.。
He's saying He will be there at the very, very end.。
That He is the beginning and the end.。
He was the word of the beginning and He will be the one that returns at the end.。
He is the Alpha and Omega.。
Jesus Himself will be the one that puts the final full stop on this story here.。
That is an encouragement to me and I hope it is an encouragement to you.。
It's saying that whatever is happening in your life, if it's going up and down, up and down,。
if there's protests and viruses and recessions and sicknesses and broken relationships, whatever it is,。
Jesus is the one who is going to have the final say.。
He will be with us all to the end of the age.。
See, if we believe in the beginning of the story and we believe in the end,。
my question is then, how are we living in the middle?。
Are our lives living according to what we believe?。
That Jesus was there at the beginning and He also has already claimed the victory at the end.。
And we therefore have to live lives of courageous mission to share this good news。
because the good news is coming at the very end.。
Then when you watch a movie and you invest in a character, one of your favourite characters,。
but of course a great movie involves trials and tribulations and ups and downs,。
but at the very end the main character comes through, the victory is won somehow.。
You see, when you watch that movie again for the second or the third or the tenth time,。
you're not as worried as the first time anymore because you know what's going to happen,。
you know what's going to end.。
That's the same here.。
If we know Jesus is going to be at the end of the story, He will be with us to the end of the age,。
we should have no reason to fear.。
And what does that mean?。
It means that we therefore should go with courage because He has authority in heaven and on earth.。
We then, our job, our duty, what we've been commissioned to do is to make disciples of all nations.。
Brother, sisters, it's been a joy to be able to share this Word with you today.。
I hope it blesses you and I really, really pray that we'll be able to see each other again soon.。
Bye.。
Thanks James for that amazing sermon.。
And now let us conclude in prayer that God would use us to fulfil His great commission around the world.。
Heavenly Father, we thank You for this time tonight, that we can listen to Your Word.。
We thank You for the great commission that Jesus gave us to go and make disciples of all nations.。
Lord, fill us with the Holy Spirit that we can go out in Your strength and with Your Spirit。
to go and share Your message wherever You call us, to our workplaces, to our friends, to our family,。
wherever You call us, whoever You surround us with.。
Lord, bless us as we go that we could be a blessing to others.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
God bless you. Stay safe.。
Amen.。
[END]。
