Good evening, everyone.。
Just to see if you're still awake.。
All right.。
So it looks like it will be the last time I'm preaching as pastor of the English congregation.。
I'm very, you know, just glad that I got to serve you all this time.。
And I just want to say I love you all.。
And thank you.。
And our relationship really doesn't end here.。
We're going to keep in touch and then we're going to gather and eat together.。
It's what Chinese people do.。
And yeah, so I'm excited also for what's happening with KFCI with Pastor James' leadership.。
And this is going to be exciting.。
We're all one church, are we not?。
If there's nothing else we learn from Pastor John, he does this all the time, right?。
One church.。
All right.。
He said I would be the only thing that stands between you and sushi tonight.。
So I will try to, I will try my best.。
All right.。
So tonight we're going to look at the heart of Jesus that transforms.。
Today we're going to look at Jesus and a tax collector from Luke 19, verse 1 to 10.。
Now here's a record of Jesus passing through Jericho and he meets this wealthy chief tax。
collector called Zacchaeus.。
Now he was short, so he can't see Jesus in the crowd.。
So what do you do?。
You go and climb a tree, right?。
So he went ahead, climbed up on a tree just so he can know more about Jesus.。
Now when Jesus finally got to where he was, he looked up and said, Zacchaeus, immediately。
come down.。
I must stay at your house tonight.。
All right.。
Now who's upset about this?。
The crowd.。
Are we not surprised?。
The crowd's always upset and they're upset.。
Why are they upset?。
Well, because they said he's a sinner.。
How can Jesus be going to a sinner's home?。
But they were not bothered by it.。
And Zacchaeus gladly came down and he actually says that he will give half of his possession,。
50%, wow, half of his possession to the poor.。
And also he's going to pay back four-folds of whatever it is if he ever cheated anyone.。
That is amazing.。
Now in Judaism, it's recognized that when you give away 20% of your possession, that's。
already considered very generous.。
Now who wants to, maybe I should do an altar call.。
Who wants to give 50% of all that you have right now?。
Anybody?。
All right.。
That's okay.。
Ask the Lord if that statement moved your heart.。
But in Judaism, 20% was already a lot.。
And also with the Mosaic law, even if he had cheated someone, he only needed to pay two。
times and yet he paid four times.。
So he's way beyond what the law imposed.。
Now isn't this mind-blowing, unbelievable thing?。
Now this radical transformation, doesn't it captivate us?。
But kind of deep inside we're like, let's hope that's not me, right?。
But it leaves us wondering, what was it that made Zacchaeus respond this way?。
Now could it be that, think about it, Jesus was able to call his name.。
So he probably knew who he was.。
Was it because he's so moved, wow, God knew my name.。
And so he responded in gratitude?。
Maybe.。
But we also see that Jesus was able to call many people's name and even tell them about。
their lives.。
Now could it be that it was because he knew he was a sinner and that everybody else also。
knew who he was and nobody wanted to be with him?。
So the very fact that the God of the universe wanted to be with him, he must be so grateful。
that he wanted to give back.。
Maybe.。
But if that was the case, didn't we see many other sinners?。
Jesus hang out with them.。
He stayed with them and he even forgave their sins.。
So tonight we're going to unpack that mystery together so that we could understand how it。
is that we can interact with Jesus.。
Now let's look a bit at the background.。
The Bible says that Jesus was passing through Jericho.。
Now Jericho is a city with lucrative produce and exports, so it's a vibrant city.。
Now tax collectors were despised.。
You know why?。
Because most of the time in that era, they would overcharge and then pocket some of those.。
Now if you think about it, this is a chief of tax collector.。
So imagine he's probably the culprit of all these crimes.。
So he wasn't liked by the crowd.。
This is what we know about Zacchaeus.。
He is wealthy, he's short, he's not liked by the crowd, and he's even kind of thought。
of as a traitor because he works for the Roman Empire.。
So this figure, he doesn't really know Jesus as well.。
And so here we see that he talks about how Zacchaeus wanted to climb up the tree.。
What was the reason?。
Does anybody remember?。
Not only to see Jesus, but to see who Jesus was.。
Now on the other side of the picture, who do we have?。
Jesus, right?。
So he's been traveling through the land and what does he usually do?。
Well, he rebukes those that are self-righteous and he hangs out with the sinners and he forgives。
them and he loves them and extends mercy to them.。
So this is kind of like, okay, Jesus is kind of doing what he has been doing all along。
with Zacchaeus.。
And actually verse 10 literally sums up Jesus' ministry and his life.。
"For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost."。
So here it is, we see two characters.。
One person, Zacchaeus, curious about who Jesus was.。
And now the other person is Jesus, who knew exactly who he was looking for, the lost one.。
And Zacchaeus was his target.。
So while Zacchaeus was only curious, Jesus knew.。
And this brings us to our first point, that if we want to be transformed, how is it that。
we can be transformed?。
When we want to know Jesus.。
Jesus already has a heart to transform anyone, okay?。
But this is not a one-way street, it's a two-way street.。
And it requires an interaction.。
And so what we see is that it required that Zacchaeus really wanted to know Jesus.。
Now there's something special about Zacchaeus' wanting to know Jesus.。
Now wasn't there a crowd?。
Remember there was a crowd?。
So there's a lot of people who are going after Jesus.。
But what is so special about Zacchaeus' desire to know Jesus?。
Well you see, a lot of people at that time went to Jesus for a few things.。
They wanted to see miracles.。
They wanted to get healed.。
And they even wanted to know how to have eternal life.。
They wanted to hear good teachings.。
And you know what?。
They all came with some sort of motive to get something from Jesus.。
And yet in here it says that Zacchaeus only had one motive, that he wanted to know who。
Jesus was.。
And you know, the name Zacchaeus actually means pure and innocent.。
And we just heard about the background of who he was, right?。
There's nothing pure and innocent about him.。
And yet his name already reveals this heart.。
I just want to know who Jesus was.。
Now this really comes back to a question for us, you know.。
When we go to Jesus, I mean first of all, do we even go to Jesus?。
Do we actually allocate time to be with him?。
But when we're actually there with him, what is it that we pray about?。
What do we want?。
Is it to pass an exam?。
To get a spouse?。
To fix that relationship?。
Get that job?。
And maybe get rid of a certain boss that you don't like?。
What is it, right?。
We actually go to him with some sort of motive.。
Maybe, I mean not you guys, some other people.。
Definitely not you guys.。
So we need to really reflect and ask, do we have the heart of Zacchaeus?。
And if we do, we can be also transformed by God.。
Now we compare it to a rich ruler in the last chapter.。
In chapter 18, there was a rich ruler and he went to Jesus and he asked him this, "Good。
teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"。
You see, this ruler was similar to Zacchaeus.。
He was rich, he was in power.。
And yet what was he looking for?。
Eternal life.。
What was Jesus to him?。
A pathway to something better.。
He was not after Jesus.。
And so we really need to be careful for ourselves as well that when we look for Jesus, is there。
just...。
I mean, we might say, "Yeah, I'm going to Jesus for this, but I'm also going for that."。
I mean, it's not wrong.。
I don't want to say, "Okay, starting from now on, no one prays for any needs."。
That's not what we're talking about.。
But really at the very core, why are we going to him?。
And so as we read on, we see that Jesus reaches the spot where Zacchaeus was.。
And he said to him, "Zacchaeus, come down immediately.。
I must stay at your home."。
Now it's quite interesting.。
It's not like, "Hey, Pastor James, can I stay at your place?"。
At least I would say, "Can I stay?"。
It's almost like he didn't need to.。
It's a self-invitation.。
"I must stay at your place."。
Now who would just say...。
Do you just randomly say, "I must stay at your place"?。
No.。
It almost sounds like you would only say it if it's your good friend, your buddy.。
You don't even need to ask permission.。
Actually, when we see their interaction, "Come down immediately," and then he goes down immediately.。
What does that kind of look like?。
It's almost like you haven't seen an old friend for a long time now.。
Remember COVID, we didn't go to the airport for three years, right?。
So imagine your friend now coming to Hong Kong to visit you.。
And then you're at the airport waiting for him to come out, and you see on that little。
screen where they zoom in on the people that are exiting, right?。
You see that person, and then you start rushing over to the exit.。
And as soon as the other person sees you, they rush over as well.。
And what do you say?。
You're like, "Oh my goodness, we haven't seen each other for so long.。
We must hang out tonight.。
We must go for a drink or something."。
This is talking about God's...。
Jesus' eagerness to be with Zacchaeus.。
And we see the same thing responded by Zacchaeus.。
He's equally excited.。
So this brings us to our second point.。
We transform when Jesus is our only treasure.。
You see, in here, Jesus and Zacchaeus, they both cherished each other.。
Now it might be one thing that we have heard about Jesus, heard about God, but it's another。
thing to actually experience him and see him face to face.。
And yet it's a third thing to put him as your treasure.。
So we might read about how great God is to the Israelites.。
We've read how Jesus healed the sick and the blind.。
But have we also personally experienced God?。
Maybe some of us here says, "Yeah, I've also experienced God.。
I've prayed to him before, and he was faithful.。
I know him."。
My second question though would be, then have we treasured him?。
Is he our treasure?。
Now why do I say that?。
It's because if we look at the reference to the rich ruler in the last chapter, remember。
he was asking Jesus, "How is it that I can obtain eternal life?"。
And you know what did Jesus answer in verse 20 until 23?。
I'll read it to you.。
He says, "You know the commandments.。
You shall not commit adultery.。
You shall not murder.。
You shall not steal.。
You shall not give false testimony.。
Honor your father and your mother.。
All these," the ruler says, "I have kept since I was a boy."。
When Jesus heard this, he said to him, "You still lack one thing.。
Sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven.。
Then come, follow me."。
And when he heard this, he became very sad because he was very wealthy.。
Now the rich ruler wanted to work for his eternal life.。
What can I do?。
What can I do to get it?。
And Jesus says, "Okay.。
Do you want to do a deal with me?。
Do you want to deal with me?。
Okay.。
Let me tell you what you can do.。
You've done everything.。
Okay.。
Sell everything you have.。
Follow me."。
The deal worked well.。
He was not like Zacchaeus.。
He was looking at Jesus to get to his treasure.。
He didn't view Jesus as the treasure.。
He wanted something else.。
But that was not the case for Zacchaeus.。
For Zacchaeus, Jesus was the treasure.。
That was the lottery.。
But this ruler, he missed it.。
So you might ask now, "Okay.。
Then do I need to sell everything?"。
Is that a yes or no?。
You guys are afraid to answer my question.。
I will ask again.。
Do we need to sell everything?。
Possibly.。
Yes.。
Oh, great.。
This man, the offering box is right at the back there.。
The answer is yes, if you have a transactional relationship with God.。
And the answer is no, if you have a face-to-face, heart-to-heart, authentic relationship with。
God.。
Because if Jesus was your treasure, it actually didn't matter if you needed to sell things。
or not.。
See, you're right.。
It just didn't matter.。
He is already your treasure.。
If he asked you to sell it, sell it.。
But if some other thing is your treasure, then no.。
But if that's the case, then Jesus asked that you sell it to follow him.。
And so it really makes us think, what's a treasure in your heart?。
What is that one thing or two or maybe three that you really hold on to that's more important,。
more precious than Jesus?。
Now I remember at a time when I had a calling to go into ministry.。
And back then I was struggling because I was a research analyst in an iBank.。
And I was making decent money.。
And when I heard about the calling, I was like, OK, maybe for a few more years.。
Maybe for a few-- I just want to delay it.。
We'll see.。
But eventually God helped me to overcome.。
And he gave me faith to step forward.。
But I wanted to say that wasn't the hard treasure.。
There was a harder one.。
Now back then I was still single.。
And I really wanted to get married.。
And then my mentor told me, you know, what if God says, I'm not going to give you a spouse?。
I told him, I said, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no.。
That's not how God works.。
I said, look at Abraham.。
He never says, oh, it's OK if you don't give me a son.。
He keeps praying for it, right?。
So I said, no, that's not how it works.。
And yet over the years at that moment, it was something that haunted me.。
And it was to a point where-- actually, I worked at Deutsche Bank.。
And so my co-worker, which I was trying to spread the gospel to, she seemed to have everything。
together.。
She had husband.。
And I think back then, I wasn't sure if she had a kid.。
But you know, she just had everything.。
And then I still remember in our conversation, I said, hey, do you want to come to our Friday。
fellowship?。
And I forgot exactly what I was inviting her to.。
And then she's like, oh, poor Michelle.。
All you have left is God.。
And I have to admit, though, at that time, I felt sorry for myself.。
Why?。
Because Jesus was one of my treasures.。
He was in all of my treasures.。
I felt sorry for myself because I didn't have what she had.。
And I even bargained with God.。
I said, you know, you want me to spread the gospel.。
But how about giving me this picture perfect so then I can go to her and say, hey, do you。
want to believe in God?。
Of course, God did not listen to me.。
But eventually, over years of struggles, he actually helped me to a point where I said,。
yes, Lord.。
It would be OK because you alone are enough for me.。
And I want to say transformation happened at that point.。
I was freed of the bondage.。
I no longer needed to think, oh, what if I can't have kids?。
What if this and that?。
I was like, all right, I'm free.。
I don't have to if God didn't give it to me.。
Transformation happened because God, Jesus was my treasure, not something else.。
And honestly, having God wasn't good enough.。
It was the perfect thing.。
And it was the only one I need.。
So also, I want to say FYI as a test, whatever situation you're going through, ask yourself,。
all you have got left is God.。
And if you feel sorry for yourself, then I have to say I'm sorry.。
You probably have some other treasures in your heart that is blocking you from true。
joy, blocking you from this true relationship.。
So remember the first question that I was asking, I was like, oh, what was it that really。
made Zacchaeus have this huge transformation?。
The answer is because he had a relationship that was heart to heart, not a transactional。
one.。
And because of that, as it leads to our third point, where we transform, when we make Jesus。
our Lord, once he is your only treasure, you can now make him your Lord.。
Now remember in verse eight, he actually says, "Look, Lord, here and now I give half of my。
possessions to the poor.。
And if I have cheated anybody out of anything, I will pay back four times the amount."。
He says, "Look, Lord."。
Remember he didn't know who God was, but he saw this treasure and he says, "That is mine."。
In Matthew 13, 45 to 46, it says, "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking。
for fine pearls.。
When he found one of great value, he went away and sold everything he had and bought。
it."。
I want to say Zacchaeus, that's what he did.。
He found that pearl and he sold everything and he made God his Lord.。
Now it is one thing to believe in God, because even the devil believes in God, that he is。
the son of God.。
Now in James 2.14, this is what we can see.。
"What good is it, my brothers and sisters, if someone claims to have faith but has no。
deeds?。
Can such faith save them?"。
Some people might mistakenly think that, "Was this Zacchaeus' action?。
Did he gain salvation because of this action to give away his possessions and to repay?"。
Well, the answer is no.。
He already received salvation when he believed, except this faith, he backed it up with his。
action.。
When he called Lord, he didn't only believe that he was the son of God, he actually wanted。
to follow the way he would act.。
He did what Jesus liked.。
Jesus liked to take care of the poor, that's what he did.。
He is his Lord.。
Now in verse 18, as we read on from James 2-24, it says here, "But someone will say,。
'You have faith, I have deeds.。
Show me your faith without deeds and I will show you my faith with deeds.。
You believe that there is one God, good.。
Even the demons believe that and shudder.。
You foolish person.。
Do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless?'"。
He's going to give evidence that faith without deeds is useless.。
"Was not our father Abraham considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac?。
You see that his faith and his actions were working together and his faith was made complete。
by what he did.。
And the scripture was fulfilled that says, 'Abraham believed God and he was credited。
to him as righteousness and he was called God's friend.'。
You see that a person is considered righteous by what they do and not by faith alone."。
And it really tells us that faith by itself without deeds, it's dead.。
And what is it that we see Zacchaeus today?。
He had faith and deeds and with that his faith is complete.。
My question today to you is, my friends, is your faith complete?。
You might say, "I have faith in God."。
Oh great, even the demons do.。
Oh I love being compared to the demons.。
But is your faith complete?。
Do our actions actually reflect that, that he is our Lord?。
Today with Zacchaeus, he isn't just a man that saw Jesus and let Jesus pass by.。
He was a man that saw Jesus and he held on to him.。
I really believe that when God said, "I must stay in your house tonight."。
That he didn't only let him into his house.。
He led him into his heart and he took complete control of who Zacchaeus is.。
Today we're talking about transformation.。
Jesus is looking for the lost one and he's very willing to transform all of us, except。
it's a two-way street.。
We saw that many people in the Bible as well, they saw Jesus, but how many responded like。
Zacchaeus?。
And you know what?。
God called, Jesus called him what?。
The son of Abraham.。
Because he did exactly what Abraham did.。
He backed up his faith with his action.。
I believe that God tonight is calling your name in the city of Hong Kong and he says,。
"I must stay in your house tonight.。
I must stay in your heart tonight."。
Will we let him?。
Or will we be like the rich ruler?。
The rich ruler wanted Jesus to get to other treasures and he had treasures in his heart。
that blocked him from following Jesus.。
Of course he won't call Jesus his Lord and he went away very sad.。
Or will we be like Zacchaeus?。
Or we only go to Jesus because all we want is to know him, nothing else.。
And that he is the treasure of our hearts.。
We make him our Lord.。
But how can we do this?。
How is it that we can do this?。
You might say, "Yes, Michelle, okay, I kind of get it now, but how can I do this?"。
Do you know how?。
It is when we have an authentic relationship with him.。
Don't we just go to God and say, "God, all I want is you.。
Maybe I have some things in my heart, but please help me take those away."。
Just like my struggles, they might have taken some years.。
But if you're willing, God is here and he will transform you.。
So tonight, I believe that God is speaking to all of us.。
Will you choose to be the ruler or will you choose to be Zacchaeus and let God into your。
heart and be the king of your heart?。
Let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, I want to come before you and just repent.。
I'm sure we all have at some point came to you as if you're a vending machine, a genie.。
There's treasures in our hearts that we won't forgo.。
But Father, help us to open up our eyes.。
Help us to have an authentic relationship with you.。
You were friends with Abraham.。
We want to be friends with you.。
So Father, help us in all that we do.。
Allow us, help us to cherish you, make you our Lord, and to have a wonderful friendship。
with you.。
You are the king of our hearts, the Lord of all.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
