(silence)。
- What an intro, that's amazing.。
Just one more thing on the fast,。
and you know I'm very excited about this fast.。
There will be a three-day devotional,。
and Pastor Peter will write Thursday's devotional,。
Pastor Paul, Friday's, and I'll write Saturday's.。
It'll be mailed to you this week,。
so if you're wondering what to do when you're not eating,。
there'll be a devotional there for you.。
Good.。
I can't tell you how excited I am to be preaching to you,。
rather than preaching to a camera this week.。
I think there's something of God's timing in this.。
I think this is a really important message。
for our church, for our city today,。
and it's not by chance.。
A few weeks ago, I felt God impress on me,。
and it was this.。
I believe God said to me, "Call a fast.。
"Call a fast for the church,。
"and call a fast for the city."。
I found that actually God had actually been speaking。
to a number of other people across the city。
on this very, very same thing,。
and we were able to come together at very short notice,。
and actually so much of the city is fasting together。
at an important time for this.。
The other thing I felt that God said to me was this.。
I want you to preach the book of Esther,。
and that's why we've got Esther tonight.。
We'd actually planned a series in Judges,。
which we'll have next month,。
and I felt God also say,。
"Would you please tell them that they were born。
"for such a time as this?"。
And you've heard that expression quite a lot。
the last few months, but that comes from Esther 4.14,。
James will be preaching on it next week.。
So it's so important that we're doing this at this time,。
and we're doing this together.。
So why are we looking at Esther?。
Well, the book of Esther is very counter-cultural.。
The book of Esther is a book about social justice,。
social justice actually done by a woman,。
social justice in a hostile society.。
It reminds us, doesn't it, of being in Hong Kong。
for such a time as this, 2020.。
So what I did, I immersed myself in the book of Esther,。
and I wanna just honour here some of the people。
that I used in my research。
'cause they're particular favourites of mine,。
Mark Driscoll, Warren Wearsby,。
and especially one of my all-time favourite preachers,。
Tim Keller of Redeemer Church in New York City,。
whom I had the privilege to meet here in Hong Kong。
at the FCC for breakfast about 10 years ago.。
His teaching on Esther has been a great help。
in piecing together this series,。
and we have leaned heavily on him。
at the same time as adding our own flavour.。
You may have remembered in January,。
it was a long time ago, January,。
when we were actually doing church in January,。
we did a series on Ephesians, on identity,。
and the founding pastor of Mars Hill, Mark Driscoll,。
wrote a book which all of our staff read together.。
He makes five points, five unique things。
about Esther and the book of Esther.。
And he says this, "Esther is a stunning story.。
"The book of Esther has all the features。
"of a typical James Bond movie."。
Now, you know the James Bond movie was postponed.。
Well, the book of Esther has not been postponed.。
So everything you would have got in James Bond,。
you've got in Esther.。
It's a great plot.。
It's a beauty.。
There's a villain.。
There's action.。
There's death.。
And the hero wins in the end.。
Actually, a heroine.。
"Like a Bond movie, it has some amazingly complex。
"and intriguing characters.。
"From the godlike Xerxes,。
"to Esther, the orphan girl raised by her cousin Mordecai,。
"and the scoundrel Haman."。
Now, I want a favour.。
This is what you've got to remember for the next four weeks.。
Every time I mention the word Haman,。
I want you to boo.。
Right?。
So let's have a little trial at this one, okay?。
It sounds even better through the masks.。
The scoundrel Haman.。
We're getting there.。
You simply cannot beat the characters in this cast.。
Second thing is that Esther is painfully normal.。
She grows up in a very lukewarm religious home。
as an orphan raised by her cousin.。
She was beautiful,。
but she allows men to tend to her needs。
and makes her decisions.。
Her behaviour, as we're gonna see tonight, is sinful.。
And she spends around a year in the spa。
getting dolled up to lose her virginity。
with the pagan king,。
at the same time as hundreds of other women.。
She performs so well。
that he chooses her as his favourite.。
We could actually say she shows no character。
until her own neck is on the line.。
And then we see her gloriously rise up。
to save the life of her people.。
Number three, quite strangely,。
the book of Esther has been quite widely avoided.。
I read that there was zero commentaries on the book。
that were published in the first seven centuries。
of the Christian church.。
As far as we can tell,。
John Calvin never preached from Esther。
and Martin Luther despised it.。
Very few preachers in the history of the church。
and more recent years have touched this book.。
Number four is that Esther has been greatly misinterpreted.。
Feminists have tried to cast Esther's life。
as a tragic tale of male domination and female liberation.。
Many evangelicals have ignored her sexual sin。
and godless behaviour。
and made her into a Daniel-like figure,。
which is inaccurate.。
Some have even tried to tie her story。
into the modern day sex slave trafficking。
as she was brought before the powerful king。
as part of his harem.。
What's the truth?。
We will see this over the next four weeks.。
And fifthly, Esther is a godless book.。
God is never mentioned in the book.。
Esther is not mentioned anywhere else in the Bible.。
No one prays, no miracles happen.。
God never shows up in any way.。
But as we will see, God is throughout the book。
like a silhouette.。
He works throughout the book,。
not through his visible hand of miracle,。
but rather his invisible hand of providence.。
I wanna give you an invitation today.。
I would invite you this week or the next few weeks。
to read the book of Esther.。
Read or listen to it.。
I timed it.。
It will take you less than 30 minutes.。
Can I make a suggestion that during the fast,。
instead of doing Facebook, you read the book of Esther.。
If you read it this week,。
you will get so much more out of this series.。
But what I'm gonna do anyway,。
I'm gonna give you the nine minute version.。
Esther's story begins in 483 BC,。
103 years after Nebuchadnezzar。
had taken the Jews into captivity.。
Esther lived in the kingdom of Persia,。
the dominant kingdom of the Middle East,。
following the fall of Babylon in 539 BC.。
Esther was a Jew from the tribe of Benjamin.。
That's very, very important.。
The name Esther actually means star.。
Is anybody called Esther here?。
Esther actually means star.。
She was also known as Hadassah, which means myrtle.。
Myrtle branches signify peace and thanksgiving.。
Esther first appears in Esther chapter two.。
She's an orphan Jew brought up by her cousin Mordecai.。
The book of Esther teaches much more。
than the life of one lady.。
There are five main characters in this book.。
King Xerxes, Queen Vashti, Mordecai,。
Mordecai, Esther, and wait for it, Haman.。
As you read the story,。
make sure you understand the roles of these five characters.。
So very quickly, in chapter one,。
King Xerxes decides to display his abundant wealth。
for 180 days, followed by a seven-day feast,。
a lavish display of his power.。
Now, why?。
He was planning to invade Greece,。
and the display was to demonstrate。
that he had sufficient wealth to carry it.。
As one of the world's wealthiest men,。
the Persian king would love to display his wealth.。
And there is a legend that he even wore gemstones。
in his beard.。
On the seventh day of the feast,。
King Xerxes calls Queen Vashti。
in order to display her beauty to the people.。
She refuses to come.。
And is eventually banished from the king's presence for life.。
So a new queen is sought.。
In chapter two, we read that Esther is chosen to be queen.。
She goes through the normal 12 months of beauty treatment。
before meeting the king.。
Chapter two actually also records the good deed of Mordecai。
in saving the king's life by alerting him。
of an assassination attempt on his life.。
We read that the deed is recorded in the record books,。
and this later serves as a blessing for Mordecai.。
In chapter three, Haman,。
that was pretty, getting pretty weak now.。
In chapter three, Haman is honored by the king。
and given a high position in the kingdom.。
Haman is annoyed.。
He's annoyed with Mordecai。
because Mordecai refuses to kneel down to him.。
Haman, his anger leads him to plot the execution。
of all the Jews in the kingdom.。
Now, in order to prevent the execution of all the Jews,。
Mordecai calls on Esther to intercede to the king.。
There's a problem here.。
The king doesn't know that Esther is a Jew.。
Esther has no idea how the king will respond to the news.。
So she's a little bit reluctant.。
And Esther's reluctance to approach the king。
is met with stern words from Mordecai in chapter four.。
Chapter 4, 14, you're gonna hear this again next week.。
He says this,。
"For if you keep silent at this time,。
relief and deliverance will rise。
for the Jews from another place,。
but you and your father's house will perish.。
And who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom。
for such a time as this."。
For such a time as this is a theme of the series.。
Sorry, I hope that's God on the phone, by the way.。
Otherwise, maybe turn it off.。
You're taking a telephone, yeah, thank you.。
For such a time of this is the theme of this series.。
Now, why have I said that?。
You are not here in Hong Kong in 2020 by chance.。
Whether you're here for a week,。
whether you're going back to China on Tuesday,。
whether you're here for a year,。
whether you're here for 10 years,。
whether you're here for the rest of your life,。
God has you here for a purpose.。
And I can say to you that you were born。
for such a time as this.。
So Esther eventually agrees to appeal to the king.。
Prior to this, she asked Mordecai。
to organise a time of fasting for her.。
She is well aware that she needs God's favour。
if she is to succeed.。
In chapter five, Esther approaches the king。
and invites him and Haman to a banquet.。
This is an attempt to get the timing right.。
Before she informs the king about Haman's。
(congregation exclaims)。
plot to kill the Jews of which she has won.。
Esther had hid the fact that she was a Jew。
from the king on Mordecai's advice.。
Meanwhile, Haman's。
(congregation exclaims)。
hatred for Mordecai is growing.。
And on the advice of his friends and wife,。
he has special gallows prepared besides his house。
on which to hang Mordecai.。
In chapter six, God moves to save the Jews.。
The king cannot sleep and asked for the record books。
to be read aloud to him.。
Remember I mentioned the record books at the beginning?。
The deeds of Mordecai in saving the king。
in the past are read out.。
In this extraordinary change of events,。
the king asked Haman。
(congregation exclaims)。
a question.。
What should be done to a man who the king wants to honor?。
Haman in his arrogance thinks the king is referring to him。
and advises, oh, I'd put on a lavish display of wealth。
and honor to be bestowed on this person publicly.。
The king orders Haman。
to do this to Mordecai.。
In chapter seven, Esther reveals to the king。
that she is a Jew and that Haman。
has plotted to kill them all.。
Haman is hanged on his own gallows.。
I think we have a cheer for that one.。
(congregation exclaims)。
In chapter eight, nine and 10,。
all the Jews are saved and Haman's family are killed.。
(congregation laughs)。
Wow, are you booing for Haman or booing they were killed?。
It should be half booing and half cheering really.。
All I can say is wow.。
It's hard to choose where to read it,。
which is why I'm saying to you,。
read it all at home this week.。
I've chosen a few verses from chapter two.。
I'm gonna read them to you now.。
Now there was in the citadel of Susa,。
a Jew of the tribe of Benjamin named Mordecai.。
Mordecai had a cousin named Hadassah,。
whom he had brought up。
because she had neither father or mother.。
This young woman who was also known as Esther。
had a lovely figure and was beautiful.。
Mordecai had taken her as his own daughter。
when her father and mother died.。
When the king's order and edict had been proclaimed,。
many young women were brought to the citadel of Susa。
and put under the care of Hergai.。
Esther also was taken to the king's palace。
and entrusted to Hergai, who had charge of the harem.。
She pleased him and won his favor.。
Immediately he provided her with her beauty treatments。
and special food.。
He assigned to her seven female attendants。
selected from the king's palace。
and moved her and her attendants。
into the best place in the harem.。
Esther had not revealed her nationality。
and family background。
because Mordecai had forbidden her to do so.。
Then we move on.。
She was taken to King Xerxes in the royal residence。
in the 10th month, the month of Tebeth。
in the seventh year of his reign.。
Now the king was attracted to Esther。
more than any of the other women,。
and she won his favor and approval。
more than any of the other virgins.。
So he set a royal crown on her head。
and made her queen instead of Vashti.。
And the king gave a great banquet, Esther's banquet,。
for all his nobles and officials.。
He proclaimed a holiday throughout the provinces。
and distributed gifts with royal liberality.。
When the virgins were assembled a second time,。
Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate.。
But Esther had kept secret。
her family background and nationality,。
just as Mordecai had told her to do so.。
For she continued to follow Mordecai's instructions。
as she had done when he was bringing her up.。
During the time Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate,。
Bithana and Teresh, two of the king's officers。
who guided the doorway, became angry。
and conspired to assassinate King Xerxes.。
But Mordecai found out about the plot。
and told Queen Esther, who in turn reported it to the king,。
giving credit to Mordecai.。
And when the report was investigated and found to be true,。
the two officials were impaled on poles.。
All this was recorded in the book of the annals。
of the presence of the king.。
Now, why have I chosen these verses?。
Well, firstly, as I said,。
the Jews were living in dispersion in Persia.。
A religious minority living at a culture。
at variance with its values.。
Can you think of somewhere else like that?。
21st century Hong Kong.。
Hong Kong, less than 10% people who claim to be Christians,。
where our culture is money, power, and position.。
How do you do this?。
How do you live in a culture which is at variance。
to the values that we hold?。
Number one, do you try and withdraw and stay pure?。
Do you go into lockdown?。
Do you become monastic?。
That's not practical.。
Do you try and keep your views private, silent?。
That's not right.。
Do you criticise everything?。
Do you protest about everything?。
That's not gracious.。
Secondly, this was a male dominated society。
in which a woman becomes a major vehicle for social justice.。
And praise God, in the 21st century,。
we're at long last seeing women raised up as leaders。
around the world.。
And it's interesting that the countries。
with the best record of COVID-19 have all got women leaders.。
I don't know if that's a coincidence or not.。
Mr. Trump and Mr. Johnson should watch that.。
Thirdly, it teaches us how to follow God。
in a morally, spiritually, and culturally ambiguous society。
when you don't know what to do.。
What we're gonna learn this evening is this,。
is that God is always at work in spite of appearances.。
Secondly, we're gonna learn that for the world,。
appearances are all that matter.。
And thirdly, we're gonna learn how God's work。
can free us from the world's ways.。
So back to chapter one,。
King Xerxes has a grand banquet for all the males.。
I guess today we'd call it a stag party.。
And he gets very drunk.。
Verse eight tells us that the party。
was an all you can drink, a wine buffet.。
At some point, he decides he's gonna show off to the stags。
the beauty of his queen Vashti.。
She gets a summons, come, dress beautifully。
and stand before thousands of drunken men.。
Would you fancy that?。
Some sources even suggest that she may have been pregnant。
at the time with Artaxerxes, who was a future king.。
But it became a major diplomatic incident,。
a national crisis.。
She showed amazing bravery in a hierarchical society。
where there was a culture of honour.。
She caused the king to lose face.。
Have you heard that expression before?。
Face is a very big thing here in Hong Kong.。
And the result was she was stripped of her title。
and she was banished.。
Let's find another queen.。
It's a little bit symptomatic of the 21st century,。
isn't it?。
Our culture, if one thing doesn't work,。
we throw it away and get something new.。
Now, Persian kings not only collected vast amounts。
of jewellery, but also great numbers of women.。
His attendants go and find the most beautiful ladies。
in the whole empire.。
They bring them all, maybe a thousand,。
and they undergo a complete makeover。
for one night with the king.。
And there were four possible outcomes.。
Number one, he didn't like them.。
They became concubines, but he never went to them.。
But they weren't allowed to go home.。
They weren't allowed to find someone else.。
They were banished to widowhood.。
Number two, he liked them.。
They became concubines and he went to them occasionally.。
Number three, if you're really lucky,。
you're in the top three.。
He would marry them and their kids would become heirs.。
And number four, really, really, really, really lucky.。
If you were number one, the number one would become queen.。
Now, a friend encouraged a Jewish orphan called Esther,。
brought up by her cousin Mordecai to apply.。
Mordecai instructs her to say nothing of her race.。
It would surely ruin her chances.。
So she kept stum.。
She went for beauty treatment and training.。
Her turn came eventually for her to visit him.。
And he liked her the best.。
The announcement was made.。
She would become a queen。
and a big marriage banquet was arranged.。
The headline would be something like this.。
I'll put it on the screen.。
A little orphan Jewish girl becomes queen。
of the greatest empire on earth.。
But look what the background to all this was.。
The Jews were in great danger.。
They could be taken out at a moment's notice.。
And the story behind Esther is this.。
When God sees this, he always responds dramatically.。
There are many examples of this in scripture.。
The 10 plagues, the pillar of fire,。
the parting of the Red Sea that we sang about earlier.。
As I said, there's no mention of God here.。
It has been said that the book of Esther。
is a record of wonders without a miracle.。
It's obvious here that God's plan unfolded here,。
not by a miracle, a dream or a vision,。
but by a series of consequences.。
If the king had not got drunk, Vashti stays.。
Esther doesn't become queen and save the Jews.。
What if Esther wasn't pretty?。
What if Mordecai didn't eavesdrop on two guys。
who were plotting an assassination of the king?。
Mordecai wasn't honored at that time,。
but if he was, the Jews wouldn't have been saved.。
Instead, his deeds were recorded in a book.。
Store that one for a couple of weeks.。
Ordinary things, not like the 10 plagues。
or the parting of the Red Sea.。
So for example, Xerxes getting drunk,。
was it just a coincidence?。
God was at work.。
And God is at work in your life.。
His silence is not his absence.。
His hiddenness is not abandonment.。
God doesn't care about appearance.。
21st century Hong Kong, we're obsessed with appearance.。
The banquet lasted 180 days.。
He gets all his treasure paraded before his friends.。
Show off, look what I've got.。
Oh, we can be a bit like that.。
And in chapter two, the scene shifts。
to an international beauty pageant.。
Miss Universe or Persian Idol, maybe.。
In Persian culture, the most important thing about a man。
was his wealth and power.。
The most important thing about a woman。
was her sexual and physical beauty.。
Aren't you glad we don't live like that?。
On the surface, we say it's awful。
that the king had a thousand concubines.。
Disgusting.。
We don't do that now.。
Church, it is exactly the same now.。
The world is the same today.。
The world is like King Xerxes.。
The world says externals mean more than your character.。
The color of your skin.。
And in Hong Kong, the money in your bank account,。
the apartment you live in, the car you drive。
is more important than your character.。
What you have is more important than who you are.。
We all have to have our own type of beauty treatment.。
You go through this and we'll love you.。
Hong Kong parents say you get straight A's.。
I'll love you more than if you get C's.。
They may not say that, but they imply that.。
Are you a concubine to the world's sexiest man?。
Are you a concubine to the world's systems。
and the world's values?。
Have you sold out to the world's values?。
Is your choice of career based on,。
your friendships based on,。
the way you behave based on the world's values?。
Don't say, not me.。
I mean, some people are extreme examples.。
They're easy to spot.。
They're obsessed with these things.。
But make no mistake, the rest of us are affected.。
People in careers that they hate, but they love the status.。
People with eating disorders。
because every Hollywood idol they see,。
every model uses an advertisement is a size zero.。
All of us are affected.。
Which leads me to the question,。
the first two chapters are over.。
How has Esther been doing?。
What is her midterm report?。
The answer is she's blown it.。
When I said the feminists, they're disgusted with Esther.。
They love Vashti.。
She stood up to the chauvinistic king.。
Esther gets there, gets to the top by compliance.。
She listened to Mordecai.。
She's everything that Hergay, the king's unit asked.。
She becomes what we would call today a sex kitten.。
On the other hand,。
evangelicals, conservatives also think she failed.。
They compare her to Daniel and friends.。
They were Jews, but they followed the law.。
Esther doesn't declare her faith.。
She breaks dietary laws.。
She sleeps with a man that she's not married to.。
She marries an unbeliever.。
Gross violations of biblical law.。
But you may be saying, what else could she do?。
It's so much like 21st century Hong Kong.。
When we're looking for mates, husband and wives,。
what's our first cut?。
Our first cut, the world's values.。
Is he or she good looking, good personality, good career?。
And perhaps financially comfortable?。
And then and only then hope they have character.。
Are we concubines to the world?。
Are we selling ourselves for one night with the king?。
Doing all the Christian stuff, oh yeah.。
And what else?。
The truthful answer is yes.。
Esther got off to a terrible start.。
Thank goodness this is a four week series,。
not a one week series.。
You'll see by the end she has a brave heart.。
God stays with her, grows her, uses her,。
and makes her into a great woman of God.。
Many of us have made a bad start.。
I did.。
I wasn't born again until I was 30 years of age.。
Many of us here, even today, feel we've screwed up.。
We can't be used.。
I've got good news for you.。
The message of scripture is not that salvation。
is for the morally right,。
those who've led good squeaky clean lives.。
God persistently and consistently gives His grace。
to those who don't deserve it.。
That's why grace is amazing.。
That's why grace is amazing.。
Man looks at the outward appearance.。
God looks at the heart.。
We've got to stop judging the book by the cover.。
I guess I've got to give it a 21st century version.。
We've got to stop judging a book by its Amazon review,。
I suppose.。
When the world says, like Xerxes, I want to be your spouse,。
when it imposes its conditions,。
I say to you tonight in response to that,。
God wants to be your spouse.。
What sort of beauty treatment do we need to go through?。
Read the Bible cover to cover, pray three hours a day,。
attend Klan every week, become pastor of the church?。
No, no, no.。
Listen, Xerxes loved Esther because she was already beautiful.。
God loves you to make you beautiful.。
Can I say that again?。
Some people need to hear this.。
God loves you to make you beautiful.。
Esther had to give her life and freedom up for a king.。
Jesus Christ, who is a king, is the only spouse。
who gives up his life for you.。
By the way, guys, it says in the Bible,。
we have to love our wives as Jesus Christ loved the church。
and he gave his life for it.。
He became disfigured.。
He became ugly.。
Just watch the Passion of Christ movie.。
He became ugly.。
To make you beautiful.。
In conclusion, there are three things to help you get away。
from the world's concubinage, I don't know if that's。
even a word, concubinage, it sounds a good word.。
Score a lot of words on Scrabble.。
Number one is this, get a real definition of beauty.。
Not the world's yardstick.。
Real beauty is not self-obsession, but self-sacrifice.。
Tell yourself, I am beautiful, he has made me this way.。
Secondly, get a real experience of beauty.。
I always get a picture here of the, I do lots of weddings,。
there's a bride coming down the aisle and when the bride。
comes down the aisle, I like to watch the bridegroom。
and watch his face as the bride comes down the aisle.。
That's what your bridegroom, Jesus, thinks of you.。
And thirdly, live a life of greatness and live it now.。
I am convinced that there are esters in this congregation.。
Move on to the future that God has for you.。
I declare greatness over you.。
I'm gonna ask you to stand as the band comes back.。
I wanna declare some words over you.。
You need to receive this.。
I know you've got used to 20 minute sermons online,。
this is a bit longer today.。
There's a lot in there, but you need to,。
just for the next minute, listen to what I'm gonna say.。
This is God talking to you.。
Oh yes, I shaped you first inside, then out.。
I formed you in your mother's womb.。
Body and soul, you are marvelously made.。
I know you inside and out.。
I know every bone in your body.。
I know exactly how you were made bit by bit,。
how you were sculpted from nothing into something.。
Like an open book, I watched you grow。
from conception to birth.。
All the stages of your life were spread out before me.。
The days of your life, all prepared。
before you'd even lived one day.。
I want you to look at the screen now.。
We're gonna make a confession together.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
