- Thanks, Pastor John.。
Good evening, everyone.。
Yeah, again, my name is Gabe,。
and I've been part of KFCI for the last two years,。
and very excited to dig into God's word with you all tonight.。
Thanks again to Pastor John for giving me the opportunity。
and for inviting me to preach today.。
So the past few weeks,。
we've been going through the book of 1 Peter,。
and in particular, we've been looking at the theme of hope.。
1 Peter is a letter written by the apostle Peter。
to Christians who have been exiled, scattered,。
uprooted from their homes。
because of the fact that they were Christians,。
they were being persecuted.。
He's writing to a people who are probably confused。
and discouraged by the persecution。
and suffering that they were facing.。
And he writes to them to remind them of the hope。
that they have in Christ, to take heart, to trust God,。
and to press on through their suffering.。
In chapter one, we saw that we have been born again。
to a living hope through the resurrection。
of Jesus Christ from the dead.。
And James asked us the question, how hopeful are you?。
In chapter two, Pastor John, he preached。
that we are a chosen race, a royal priesthood,。
a holy nation, a people for God's own possession,。
and that we should live according to our calling.。
And Michelle reminded me last week from chapter three。
to follow Christ's example to bless others.。
Do not repay evil for evil, but on the contrary,。
bless that you may obtain a blessing.。
And now today in chapter four,。
we will be answering this question.。
That is, what is the attitude of people living in hope?。
What attitude drives the lives of people with hope?。
What attitude molds our lives?。
Now there's a lot in this chapter,。
so we'll only be able to scratch the surface。
of the riches of God's words today.。
Peter gives many commands in this chapter。
and we can't touch on all of them,。
but he also gives us the motivation behind those commands.。
And my hope today is that we'll be able to see。
the big picture for the reason why Peter commands us。
the way he does in light of the hope that we have.。
So let's get into it.。
This is 1 Peter chapter four.。
Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh,。
arm yourselves with the same way of thinking.。
For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin.。
So as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh,。
no longer for human passions, before the will of God.。
For the time that is past suffices for doing。
what the Gentiles want to do.。
Living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness,。
orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry.。
With respect to this, they are surprised。
when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery。
and they malign you.。
But they will give an account to him。
who is ready to judge the living and the dead.。
For this is why the gospel was preached。
even to those who are dead.。
That though judged in the flesh the way people are,。
they might live in the spirit the way God does.。
The end of all things is at hand.。
Therefore, be self-controlled and sober minded。
for the sake of your prayers.。
Above all, keep loving one another earnestly,。
since love covers a multitude of sins.。
Show hospitality to one another without grumbling.。
As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another。
as good stewards of God's varied grace.。
Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God,。
whoever serves as one who serves。
by the strength that God supplies,。
in order that in everything,。
God may be glorified through Jesus Christ.。
To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever, amen.。
Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial。
when it comes upon you to test you,。
as though something strange were happening to you.。
But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings,。
that you may also rejoice and be glad。
when his glory is revealed.。
If you are insulted for the name of Christ,。
you are blessed because the spirit of glory。
and of God rests upon you.。
But let none of you suffer as a murderer or thief。
or evildoer or meddler.。
Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian,。
let him not be ashamed,。
but let him glorify God in that name.。
For it is time for judgment to begin。
at the household of God.。
And if it begins with us,。
what will be the outcome of those。
who do not obey the gospel of God?。
And if the righteous is scarcely saved,。
what will become of the ungodly and the sinner?。
Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will。
entrust their souls to a faithful creator while doing good.。
This is God's word.。
Now, the first thing Peter calls us to do。
that we'll look in today is to fight sin by following Christ.。
To fight sin by following Christ.。
The context here is that there are Christians。
who are suffering persecution as a result of avoiding sin.。
We see this in verse three.。
For the time that has passed suffices。
for doing what the Gentiles want to do,。
living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness,。
orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatries.。
By Gentiles here,。
Peter is referring to unbelievers who do not fear God.。
The situation is that the world around these Christians。
is completely corrupt and they're indulging。
in all of these sinful passions.。
And then in verse four, with respect to this,。
they are surprised when you do not join them。
in the same flood of debauchery and they malign you.。
Sin is so ingrained in the culture that it is strange。
when these Christians, when we do not participate.。
And more than that, the world maligns, slanders,。
mocks these Christians, they persecute them。
because they choose not to indulge。
in the sin that the world wants.。
And so the Christians here are suffering。
because of their desire to fight sin。
and to do the will of God instead of the will of the world.。
And our situation might not be too different.。
2000 years later, we live in the same corrupt world.。
Maybe to your coworkers, one drink isn't enough.。
They want you to get completely blackout drunk。
in their drinking parties.。
It could be the same temptations to sex,。
sensuality, passions, orgies,。
or maybe you're pressured to worship idols from your family。
or to pray to ancestors in lawless idolatry.。
We may be facing similar situations today.。
Peter's encouraging the church to remain strong。
in fighting sin despite persecution,。
despite what suffering might come.。
Verses one and two,。
for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin。
so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh,。
no longer for human passions, before the will of God.。
Here, whoever has suffered in the flesh。
refers to the suffering Christian,。
to Christians who suffer as a result。
of avoiding sin in this way.。
Peter is saying that when we suffer。
in a fight against sin,。
we demonstrate that we have ceased from sin.。
He's not saying that Christians no longer sin,。
but we have ceased from sin in the sense。
that we are no longer slaves to sin.。
We have truly decided to follow the will of God。
from the heart rather than to follow human passions.。
In that way, we have ceased from sin.。
And though we may fail at times in our pursuit for holiness,。
when we suffer in a fight against sin,。
we've proved that we have been born again.。
We proved our faith is genuine。
and that we are God's people.。
And Peter calls us to fight sin,。
pointing to Christ as our example.。
Verse one, "Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh,。
arm yourselves the same way of thinking."。
And NIV translates this as arm yourselves。
with the same attitude, the same attitude as Christ.。
This is the grounds for what Peter。
is encouraging us to do here.。
Peter is calling us to suffer with the same attitude。
that Christ had when he suffered.。
Now, what's this attitude?。
There's much we could talk about,。
but one thing to note here is that Jesus endured suffering。
by trusting in God and specifically trusting。
in God's justice.。
Earlier in chapter two, verse 23, it says,。
"Jesus committed no sin,。
neither was deceit found in his mouth.。
When he was reviled, he did not revile in return.。
When he suffered, he did not threaten,。
but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly."。
Now in this letter, Peter has been hammering home the point。
that we have hope because of Christ's suffering.。
Through his death and resurrection,。
we have been born again to this living hope.。
And he calls us to persevere in the face of unjust suffering。
through the same attitude that Christ had。
when he was also slandered and unjustly treated for our sake.。
See, Jesus never sinned,。
but Jesus was falsely accused of blasphemy。
and treated as a criminal.。
He was beaten and mocked because of his obedience to God.。
He suffered unjustly because of that.。
And in the same way, we also might face suffering。
because of our obedience to God.。
Jesus was tempted to disobey God's will,。
God's plan for our salvation.。
He could have called angels to rescue him from the cross,。
but instead he chose to obey God perfectly.。
He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree。
that we might die to sin and live to righteousness.。
And in his suffering, Jesus trusted God.。
He trusted that God would judge justly。
and raise him from the dead, vindicate him.。
And he also trusted that his death。
would be sufficient to save us,。
that God would judge us justly。
according to his righteousness.。
And that is the hope that drove him to obey God.。
Jesus trusted in him.。
And here we're called to trust God in the same way,。
verses four and five.。
They malign you, but they will give an account to him。
who is ready to judge the living and the dead.。
Here, Peter points us to God's justice。
as encouragement to persevere in suffering.。
Peter says, "God will bring justice.。
He will judge the living and the dead.。
We may see evil go unpunished in this life.。
Bad people may prosper and live without justice。
ever being served to them,。
but God will judge the living and dead.。
You cannot escape God's judgment, even in death,。
or rather I might say more accurately, especially in death.。
Those who do not obey God,。
those who have not been raised to new life in Christ。
will face condemnation.。
But we have hope from verse six.。
For this is why the gospel is preached。
even to those who are dead,。
that though judged in the flesh the way people are,。
they might live in the spirit the way God does.。
You see, Christ died that we might have new life。
and the gospel is preached so that we could have this life.。
It is through the preaching of the gospel。
that we can know Christ and have faith in Christ.。
And all who believe in him will be judged as righteous。
by the one who judges justly.。
That's the good news of the gospel.。
And so like Christ, then we can trust God in suffering。
and in our fight against sin.。
We can trust that God hates sin and that sin leads to death.。
And then we can run from the flood of debauchery。
that the world tempts us to,。
knowing that it is a straight line to death.。
And we can also flee from sin with hope,。
knowing that God is just and through faith in Christ,。
he will count us as righteous.。
And though we may be mocked for it,。
people might say, why does God care。
what two adults do with each other?。
And though we may be mocked,。
we can fight for holiness with faith,。
knowing that we are bound for eternal glory。
because of Christ.。
So people with hope fights sin by following Christ.。
We fight sin by following Christ.。
Question for all of you guys, you can type in the chat.。
What would you do if today were your last day to live?。
Or it's actually kind of late in the evening.。
So what would you do if maybe you had one more day to live?。
If tomorrow were your last day to live, what would you do?。
(pages rustling)。
What would you do if it were your last day to live?。
Anthony says, have a feast with friends and family.。
Also John, gather family, spend it with family.。
That's good.。
Vincent makes good steak, I heard.。
(pages rustling)。
Yeah, so those are all good things.。
Lots of spending time with family.。
Good, yeah.。
So Peter also has something to say。
about what we should do in light of this.。
Here, Peter reminds us that the end is near.。
And in light of this, he tells us to stay alert。
and to love and serve one another.。
This is what Peter calls us to do。
in light of the fact that the end is near.。
You see in verse seven, the end of all things is at hand.。
Therefore be self-controlled and sober minded。
for the sake of your prayers.。
Above all, keep loving one another earnestly。
since love covers a multitude of sins.。
Show hospitality with one another without grumbling.。
As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another。
as good stewards of God's various grace.。
So here, Peter says the end of all things is at hand.。
And sometimes the end times in our minds。
are associated with crazy apocalyptic events。
like you might hear in Revelation.。
War, famine, pestilence, crazy stuff, things blowing up.。
The end times are not just restricted to that.。
The New Testament authors, the Bible refers to us right now。
as living in the end times.。
Jesus brought about the last days。
through his life, death, and resurrection.。
And this doesn't mean the world。
will necessarily end tomorrow.。
But Jesus did say that he will return soon。
and he will come like a thief in the night,。
suddenly a time that we can't predict or expect.。
And so naturally we should say。
sober minded and self-controlled,。
which you might note is the opposite。
of the world's flood of debauchery。
that they would have us join.。
And it's a bit remarkable to me。
how really unremarkable Peter's commands are。
despite the end being near.。
He doesn't say go live your best life now,。
have fun, let's go out with a bang,。
we're going to Vegas.。
No, what does he say?。
He says, people of hope, the end is near.。
Stay focused, stay alert so that you can pray.。
The end is near, therefore love one another.。
The end is near, therefore show hospitality。
without grumbling.。
The end is near, serve one another.。
It's interesting to me how commonplace these commands are。
that he's saying in light of this.。
You might ask, why does he even like bring up the fact。
that the end is near here?。
He's commanding us to do these everyday things。
that we're supposed to do all the time.。
We're called to love each other all the time,。
we're called to serve each other all the time.。
And I think that's really kind of the point here.。
The end of all things is to be expected.。
The fact that the end of all things is at hand。
shouldn't catch us off guard or surprise us.。
As people of hope, we should be living at all time,。
looking forward to the hope of Christ's return.。
Moving on to verse 10, as each has received a gift,。
use it to serve one another as good stewards。
of God's very grace.。
Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God,。
whoever serves as one who serves。
by the strength that God supplies.。
Peter reminds us here of the grace。
that God has graciously given us.。
He has firstly saved all of us Christians by his grace,。
but also God has given us various gifts.。
We are one body in Christ with many members。
and the members don't all have the same function.。
Think for a bit, what gifts has God given you?。
Maybe you're good at connecting with others, welcoming them,。
or you're good at teaching or at leadership,。
encouraging others.。
Some are generous givers.。
How has God gifted you?。
Whatever the way, whatever his very grace is,。
he has given you grace for a reason.。
That is that we may love and serve one another。
and be good stewards of his grace。
in light of the fact that the end of all things is at hand.。
And also in everything we do,。
we should be relying on God's grace.。
Verse 11 says, whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles。
of God, whoever serves as one who serves。
by the strength that God supplies.。
We should love and serve one another。
and we should do this, we should do everything。
by relying on God's strength, on his grace.。
And what's the reason that's given for that?。
In verse 11, in order that in everything,。
God may be glorified through Jesus Christ.。
God deserves the glory, right?。
To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever, amen.。
So we should love and serve by the strength。
that God supplies, by his grace, so that God gets the glory.。
By glory here, I mean the display。
and recognition of God's worth.。
He deserves to be regarded as holy.。
As we saw earlier, it is God who gave us every good thing.。
He created us, he's the only eternal one。
and he saved us through Christ.。
He brought us out of darkness and into his marvelous light.。
And he equipped us by his grace to do the good works。
that he prepared for us to do.。
And so it's only fitting, it's only right。
that we see reality as it truly is。
and acknowledge him as our creator and sustainer。
because he is the one who has given us this grace.。
How do we glorify God?。
How does what we do as humans。
result in God glorified through Christ?。
One way is we glorify him by relying on him.。
God is not served by human hands as though。
he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind。
life and breath and everything as it says in Acts.。
But rather Isaiah says,。
the Lord waits to be gracious to you。
and therefore he exalts or glorifies himself。
to show mercy to you.。
God is not served by human hands。
and he's not honored when we try to obey him。
by our own strength or when we try to fight sin。
and love others by our own works.。
But God glorifies himself by showing grace and mercy to us.。
God designed everything so that he would get the glory.。
Salvation is by faith in Christ so that no one can boast.。
If we can earn our own righteousness by works,。
the credit or the glory would go to us.。
But we are saved by faith so that God gets the glory。
through Jesus Christ.。
And in the same way, when we continue to live by faith。
and to serve by the strength that God supplies,。
he also gets the glory.。
He gets the praise and glory for saving us。
and for continually working his grace in us.。
And he is also honored and glorified when we rely on him,。
when we have faith in him。
and count him as worthy to be trusted.。
Also, why would we even want to rely on our own strength?。
Remember how we were once slaves to sin?。
Remember all the times that we failed to love others?。
Even now, when we sought our own interests to love。
and serve ourselves rather than to serve others.。
So would we rather rely on our own weak strength。
or by the strength that an all-powerful,。
omnipotent God supplies us in Christ?。
God's strength is better than our strength.。
And so we should love and serve one another。
by relying on God so that God gets the glory。
and we get the help.。
As John Piper puts it,。
the beauty of the gospel is we get the help。
and God gets the glory.。
We are freely given grace, God's riches at Christ's expense。
and God gets all of the honor and praise.。
When we trust in God, we get the strength。
and God gets the glory.。
So we should love and serve one another。
by relying on God's strength, by faith.。
Now, the third thing that Peter calls us to do。
is to endure suffering,。
to endure suffering through joyful faith,。
endure suffering through joyful faith.。
Verse 12 says, "Beloved, do not be surprised。
"at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you。
"as if something strange were happening to you."。
Let's stop here and first note that suffering。
should not take us by surprise, right?。
We should not be surprised at the fiery trial。
when it comes upon us to test us.。
It's not strange.。
And one reason that's given for why suffering is expected。
is because Christ also suffered, as we saw earlier.。
Christ suffered because of his obedience to God.。
And we will share in Christ's suffering as well。
when we live in obedience to God.。
If Christ had to suffer, we should also expect to suffer.。
Second Timothy says, "Indeed, all who desire。
"to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted."。
And Jesus said in John 15,。
"A servant is not greater than his master.。
"If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you."。
We should expect suffering.。
It shouldn't take us by surprise.。
God never promised us ease and comfort in this life.。
He never promised us wealth and health in this age.。
Rather, he promises that we will be hated for his namesake。
and maybe to briefly digress,。
if we're fitting in perfectly with the world,。
if we're not really ruffling any feathers, so to speak.。
Maybe we should reflect a little on why that really is.。
But anyways, God doesn't promise that life will be easy.。
But what he does promise to us,。
even though it might be difficult,。
is that all our suffering,。
all the trials of this life will be worth it.。
Verse 13 says, "Rejoice insofar。
"as you share Christ's sufferings,。
"that you may also rejoice and be glad。
"when his glory is revealed."。
We may rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed.。
So why should we rejoice in suffering?。
We should rejoice knowing that our suffering has a purpose.。
Notice it says, "We are to rejoice in suffering,。
"so that with the purpose and result that。
"we can also rejoice in Christ's glory。
"as revealed at his second coming."。
We can rejoice in suffering because we trust。
that our suffering has a purpose.。
God is testing our faith.。
He is refining us through trials.。
This points back to chapter one.。
"We rejoice in our living hope,。
"though now for a little while, if necessary,。
"you have been grieved by various trials,。
"so that the tested genuineness of your faith,。
"more precious than gold that perishes,。
"though it is tested by fire,。
"may be found to result in praise and glory and honor。
"at the revelation of Jesus Christ."。
So we can rejoice in suffering。
because we can hold fast to the hope that we have.。
When we consider Christ more precious。
than anything the world has to offer,。
when we're looking forward to this reward,。
this eternal joy that awaits us,。
then we can rejoice in suffering,。
knowing that God is preparing that for us through our trials。
and even with tears in our eyes,。
whatever trials or sufferings that come our way,。
we can rejoice.。
We can rejoice because our souls are full。
because of the eternal glory that awaits us。
on the day of Christ,。
even if it hurts right now,。
even if there's pain right now.。
More than that, we can also count ourselves blessed.。
Verse 14, "If you're insulted for the name of Christ,。
"you are blessed because the spirit of glory。
"and of God rests upon you."。
We are blessed for one, because our faith,。
our perseverance in suffering is a mark。
that we are God's people,。
that we will inherit the hope that awaits us.。
Also, we are blessed now in the present。
because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon us.。
We are blessed because God is with us。
even now in our suffering.。
He didn't leave us out to dry.。
Christ didn't just go to heaven,。
but he also, he did return to heaven,。
but he also sent a helper who is with us,。
the spirit who empowers us.。
He's watching over us, disciplining us for good,。
and he empowers us by his spirit。
to persevere by the strength that he supplies。
so that God gets the glory.。
So people with hope endure suffering through joyful hope.。
We have joy because we hold onto our hope。
when we look to the reward。
that we will live for the rest of time。
in the presence of God with no more pain,。
no more suffering,。
where he will wipe every tear from our eyes,。
where we will be his people and he will be our God.。
When we have that hope, we can rejoice。
because we are blessed, because God's spirit is with us.。
And so Peter sums all this up in verse 19.。
It says, "Therefore, let those who suffer。
"according to God's will and trust their souls。
"to a faithful creator while doing good."。
So let us endure suffering, trusting in God while doing good.。
That's what people with hope do.。
People with hope endure suffering through joyful hope。
while trusting God and doing good.。
We endure suffering through joyful hope.。
So again, today we set out to answer the question,。
what attitude drives the life of a people with hope?。
We saw that Peter commanded a few actions.。
We're to fight sin, love and serve one another,。
endure suffering.。
And behind the commands, he gives some attitudes,。
some motivations behind them.。
We should follow Christ, follow Christ's example.。
We should rely on God's grace,。
looking forward to the future。
and endure through our joyful hope.。
Those are the attitudes that people with hope live by.。
And actually, everything that we've looked at today。
can be summed up in one word, and that is faith.。
Everything that we've seen today can be distilled in this.。
People with hope live by faith.。
See, we live by faith。
when we follow Christ's example in suffering.。
Jesus obeyed God with faith that God would judge justly。
and that God's will, that God's plan was good。
and that it would be worth the pain.。
We live by faith when we rely on God's grace。
and live by the strength that he supplies.。
We serve and love one another。
by the strength that God supplies.。
And we live by faith when we endure suffering。
with hope, with this joyful faith。
that God has prepared an inheritance for us。
that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading.。
We live by faith with our eyes fixed on the reward,。
persevering for the joy that is set before us.。
People with hope live by faith.。
That's the attitude of a people with faith.。
It should be clear from this chapter,。
from what we've seen so far,。
that Peter calls us to persevere by faith.。
Also, the statement in itself should be kind of obvious,。
that people with hope live by faith.。
You see, faith is having confidence in hope.。
Hebrews 11 says,。
"Faith is the assurance of things hoped for,。
the conviction of things not seen."。
Faith and hope are not the same thing,。
but they are very closely related.。
Faith is the assurance of hope.。
So all we're really saying here,。
by people with hope live by faith,。
is that people with hope will live by。
that same joyful, soul-satisfying assurance。
of their hope in Christ.。
And that's what we call faith.。
People who are confident of their hope。
live by that same assurance of their hope.。
This is pretty straightforward stuff。
that people with hope live by hope.。
It's not really a groundbreaking discovery.。
It's kind of like singing, singers sing.。
That's what singers do, they sing.。
Or dancers dance.。
This isn't like 200 IQ stuff.。
Like even the great philosopher Taylor Swift once said,。
"The player is gonna play, play, play, play, play.。
And the haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, hate."。
And in the same way, people with faith live by faith.。
Hopers gonna hope, hope, hope, hope, hope.。
It's pretty simple, right?。
God's people who have been saved by faith。
live by that same faith.。
As it's written, "The righteous shall live by faith."。
People with faith live by faith.。
And the question for us all today is,。
are we living by faith?。
Do we live by faith?。
And by that, I don't just mean,。
have you believed that Jesus has died for the cross?。
That is an essential part of a faith.。
But faith doesn't just stop there looking back, right?。
The faith that Jesus, that Peter describes,。
isn't stuck with its head in the past.。
It believes that God is at work both here and now。
and in the future, just as he was in the past。
when Christ died on the cross.。
Peter calls us to look forward。
to God's final judgment in our fight against sin.。
He directs us to look forward to the end of all things。
in our love and service.。
And he points us to the hope of Christ's return。
as we endure in suffering.。
And the hope that Peter presents us。
is that God will continue to do good to us in the future.。
See, true faith believes in the cross,。
but not just as a historical fact.。
Faith believes that Christ has bought for us on the cross。
all of God's promises and all of God's blessings,。
that they all find their yes in Christ.。
True faith believes that the cross guarantees。
that God will always be good to us。
both now and for the rest of eternity.。
And if you have this kind of faith,。
it will necessarily change your life.。
You can't have true faith and be unchanged, right?。
If you truly believe that sin brings death,。
but God's will is life, then we will fight sin.。
When we find Christ more precious。
than all the riches of this world,。
than anything this world has to offer,。
when we truly believe that this light momentary affliction。
is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory。
beyond all comparison,。
we won't even be able to stop our souls from rejoicing.。
If we lose sight of that hope,。
if we try to obey God by our own strength。
rather than the strength that he supplies,。
that's how we will be discouraged.。
We'll be shaken and discouraged。
whenever we face any kind of trials。
because we're working on our own strength.。
And that's why Peter calls us to set our hope fully,。
our hope completely on the grace that will be brought to us。
at the revelation of Jesus Christ,。
so that we would live every day by faith,。
by the strength that God supplies.。
So are we living by faith?。
And if you can answer yes to that question, honestly,。
if the spirit is truly filling your hearts。
with hope and joy, then praise God.。
That is truly a work of God.。
That is his grace in you.。
And if that's the case,。
I encourage you brothers and sisters to press on in faith。
with the joy that's set before you.。
But if you're here feeling discouraged,。
thinking falling God really is tough.。
Christian life is exhausting.。
I don't know if I can do it.。
God's commands feel like a huge burden on me, a huge weight.。
If that's the case, then fix your eyes on Christ。
and he will give you rest.。
God's demands will seem heavy。
if you try to obey on your own strength.。
But when you trust God and when you love him,。
then his words will be sweeter than honey。
and more precious than gold.。
If you live by faith,。
then we will understand what Jesus meant when he said,。
"His yoke is easy and his burden is light."。
Seek him with all your heart today.。
God is waiting to be gracious to you。
and he exalts himself to show mercy to you.。
So are we living by faith?。
Does the hope of Christ guide our thoughts。
and mold every inch of our life?。
Does it compel us to obedience to good works,。
to boldness, for greater love and service to each other?。
Do you have that faith?。
I'll close by reminding us again。
of our hope from chapter one.。
On us all to reflect on this.。
Does this hope fill our hearts with inexpressible joy?。
Does it stir us to live boldly in obedience to God?。
I pray that this all will be an encouragement to us,。
that this hope, this reminder of this hope。
will spur us on to live by faith.。
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
According to his great mercy,。
he has caused us to be born again to a living hope。
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,。
to an inheritance that is imperishable,。
undefiled and unfading,。
kept in heaven for you,。
who by God's power are being guarded through faith。
for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.。
In this you rejoice, though not now for a little while,。
if necessary, you've been grieved by various trials,。
so that the tested genuineness of your faith,。
more precious than gold that perishes,。
though it is tested by fire,。
would be found to result in praise and glory and honor。
at the revelation of Jesus Christ.。
Though you have not seen him, you love him.。
Though you do not now see him, you believe in him。
and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible。
and filled with glory,。
obtaining the outcome of your faith,。
the salvation of your souls.。
This is the true great grace of God.。
Let us stand for a minute.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we thank you that we have this hope。
that you have blessed us in Christ.。
Lord, we believe in you.。
Help our unbelief.。
Help us to fix our eyes firmly on the hope。
that is set before us in Christ.。
Lord, we are weak, but you are strong.。
Lord, you have saved us in Christ.。
You empower us by your spirit.。
We pray that you would have us follow Christ。
in his suffering, that we would endure by faith.。
Lord, we can't do this on our own,。
but we trust you that you are good,。
that in Christ, all the promises of God find their yes.。
So Lord, we pray this with confidence。
in the cross of Christ.。
Amen.。
