Before the last three weeks in quarantine, we had a wonderful time visiting friends and。
family in the UK.。
There were many highlights.。
This picture here shows my brother-in-law's 92nd birthday party.。
Yes, 92.。
My sisters, who are 86 and 88, are pictured there.。
And ironically, they've all been in poor health since our visit, so our visit was perfectly。
timed.。
We caught up with many friends, and you might recognize this couple.。
Actually, it's not a couple now, it's soon to be three.。
Yeah.。
Soon to be three, yeah.。
The expanding KFCI family, I love it.。
Yeah.。
But the highlight had to be Sandra's see and Sandra's daddy.。
He's 89.。
He's pictured taking his first haircut since the beginning of COVID.。
We had a haircut together.。
Now he's living alone.。
He has bone cancer.。
And when Sandra hugged him, he said very sadly it was the first time he had received a hug。
in two years.。
And we were so grateful that we were able to celebrate Sandra's $2 birthday with him.。
I have a picture there.。
Now Sandra's dad lives in Wales.。
And as you can see from the pictures here, it's absolutely beautiful.。
And we spent five weeks there.。
And the one thing you expect to see in Wales, apart from Welshman, are sheep.。
It is estimated that there are almost 1.2 billion sheep in the world today.。
Perhaps not surprisingly given its size, China has the highest amount.。
But it is in Wales where Sandra and I was, where there are actually more than three sheep。
for every person.。
Now that's a lot of roast lamb or a lot of wooly jumpers depending on which way you look。
at it.。
But I understand New Zealand is even better.。
Five sheep for every person.。
And I want to tell you about sheep.。
One thing about sheep, their wool will grow forever.。
And I want to tell you about a merino sheep in New Zealand.。
Remember five sheep per human that became famous.。
The unlikely name of Shrek.。
Back in 2004, Shrek the merino sheep hid in a cave for six years so he wouldn't have to。
get sheared.。
Shrek really did not like getting his hair cut.。
I know some teenage boys like that and a certain pastor whose name begins with Johnny.。
But by the time he was cornered and given his long overdue haircut on New Zealand national。
television and watch it, Johnny will probably get his haircut on Canadian TV, I don't know.。
That was enough wool to make 20 men's suits.。
Now sheep are mentioned in the Bible more than 500 times.。
That's more than any other animal.。
The prominence of sheep in the Bible grows out of the reality that sheep were important。
to the nomadic and agricultural life of the Hebrews and other Middle Eastern people.。
So it should be of no surprise to us that central to our KFCI nativity scene were the。
shepherds.。
Now make no mistake, the shepherds were a big part of the Christmas story.。
They were not just some extras on the movie of Christmas.。
Now Johnny mentioned last week that most of our mental images about Christmas come from。
either medieval art or hallmark Christmas cards.。
You know when we think of the shepherds, don't we?。
We have an image of gentle folk singing sweet songs by a campfire, you know, "Baa, baa,。
black sheep, have you any wool?"。
You know, the picture of shepherds in the field getting ready to hear angels sing evokes。
a positive pastoral image for us.。
It reminds us of Jesus' association with the Lion of David.。
But in reality, however, shepherding was a despised occupation.。
In the first century, shepherds were generally scorned as shiftless, dishonest people who。
grazed their flocks on other people's lands.。
They weren't the pleasant hallmark faces we're used to seeing this time of year.。
We have sentimentalised them so much on our Christmas cards and our art that they look。
like gentle folk waiting to go to our homecoming celebration.。
No picture is further from reality.。
Now notice, who did the angels go first to share the news?。
Notice who the angels tell?。
The shepherds.。
Doesn't that strike you as a little bit strange?。
It got me thinking.。
It reminds me of another event in the life of Jesus.。
I want to give you a question.。
Who was the first person that Jesus appeared to after his resurrection?。
Who was it?。
Sorry, do any of you read the Bible?。
I can recommend it.。
It was Mary Magdalene.。
Should we cut that bit out for the online audience?。
Sorry, guys.。
I'm sure everybody online knew it was Mary Magdalene.。
But what was Mary Magdalene?。
Firstly, she was a woman.。
Women at the time were definitely second class and still in some parts of the world today.。
They had no social standing.。
And not only that, but Mary Magdalene was a woman with a questionable past, to say the。
least.。
So at the beginning and at the end of Jesus' life, seeming nobodies were chosen to be the。
ones to whom the Messiah was revealed.。
Think about that for a moment.。
These nobodies became somebodies.。
Nobodies to the extent that we're still talking about them 2,000 years later.。
And that, my friends, is the story of Christmas.。
You may not have heard it expressed like this before.。
The story of Christmas is this.。
Nobody became a nobody so that nobodies could become somebody.。
Let me expand that.。
What we're talking about here is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords on his heavenly。
throne who gave up his heavenly throne for a manger in poverty in Bethlehem who would。
die the death of a common thief.。
Yes, somebody became a nobody.。
So that, so that wretched sinners like you and me could become sons and daughters of。
God.。
Nobodies could become somebodies.。
But I have a confession to make.。
In my former life, I used to be in the PR field.。
My job was to get maximum exposure for my company.。
You know, column inches, clicks and likes, TV coverage.。
When I look at the Christmas story on the surface, my natural tendencies come out.。
I want the angels to do something widescreen and high definition.。
I want them shouting from the mountaintops and parading the streets of Jerusalem saying,。
"Wake up and hear this.。
This should have gone viral."。
The angels should have gone to the temple to tell the religious leaders what God was。
doing.。
They should have gone to the governor and let him know that something awesome was happening。
in Bethlehem.。
They should have gone to Herod.。
After all, he was the king of Judea.。
They should have told him that God was doing a great thing in Bethlehem and that the king。
of kings had been born.。
I mean, when Moses was born, God delivered him straight to the top, Pharaoh.。
Okay, via a basket in the River Nile, but the angels, instead of telling someone important,。
announced the Messiah's birth to a ragtag bunch of shepherds.。
That is not what we would have told them to do.。
That is not what we would have done, but it's what God wanted.。
I wonder why.。
Have you ever wondered why?。
I'm going to give you three good reasons.。
All good sermons come with three points, right?。
I'm going to give you three good reasons.。
Are you ready?。
Number one, He came because of them.。
In this account, we discover the heart of God and the true meaning of the birth of this。
child.。
Here is a graphic picture of Jesus, the one sent to the lowly and the outcast.。
In this picture, we are reminded that Jesus came for people like the shepherds.。
The shepherds, not the religious elite, the political savvy or the rulers of the people.。
The shepherds became the metaphor for the kind of people that Jesus came to save.。
If it were Hong Kong 2021, the angels might have appeared to street sleepers, refugees,。
domestic helpers, and with COVID in mind to frontline health workers.。
George says, amen.。
The angels came to shepherds.。
People doing what they do every day and every night.。
People going through the routines of life.。
People living their ordinary lives.。
Church, isn't that what the birth of Jesus is all about?。
It's about God meeting us.。
Not on high holy days, not in cathedrals and churches, but on ordinary days in ordinary。
places in an extraordinary way.。
The birth of this child is about God coming to us in our everyday lives and saying to。
us, don't be afraid, but look, I proclaim to you good news.。
It's about God meeting us in our pain and loneliness.。
It's about God meeting us in our frustration and anger.。
It's about God meeting us Monday, Wednesday and Friday.。
It's about God wanting to be part of our lives every day.。
I think that's why God sent the angels to the shepherds to let us know that this child。
was for all people, even the most ordinary.。
I want to tell you a story of a guy called Will.。
Will was in his final year of college.。
He had wild hair, I mean wild hair, you know, wilder than yours, right?。
I got to say wild hair, right?。
He wore a t-shirt with holes in it, faded ripped skinny jeans and shoes with no socks.。
That was his wardrobe during his four years of college.。
Though mildly eccentric, he was a brilliant person.。
He became a Christian whilst attending college.。
He must have met Johnny.。
Across from the campus was a traditional church.。
They wanted to develop a ministry to students, but they weren't sure how to go about it.。
One day Will decided to go and worship there.。
So he walks in with his wild hair, t-shirt with holes in, faded ripped skinny jeans,。
shoes with no socks.。
The service had already started.。
Now students have no concept of time.。
Rather like some of you this afternoon at 5.30.。
I just want to say, right?。
Will started down the aisle looking for a seat, but the church was full.。
By now people were looking a bit uncomfortable, but no one said anything.。
Will got closer and closer to the front.。
When he realized there were no seats, he just sat down right on the floor.。
Oh dear, and although this is perfectly acceptable behaviour at a college fellowship, this had。
never happened in this church.。
By now the people were really uptight and the tension in the air was thick.。
Enter a deacon.。
Let's call him Tony.。
He slowly made his way towards Will.。
Now this deacon was maybe in his early seventies, a distinguished man with silver gray hair,。
wearing a suit and tie and using a walking stick, not like our Tony.。
Now everyone was thinking this, you can't blame him for what he's going to do.。
How could you expect a man of his age and background to understand some college kid。
thinking he can worship sitting on the floor?。
It took time for the man to reach the boy.。
The church became utterly silent except for the clicking of the man's walking stick on。
the tired floor.。
All eyes were focused on him.。
When the elderly deacon got next to the boy, he dropped his walking stick on the floor.。
With great difficulty, he lowered himself and asked Will, "May I sit with you?"。
The man sat down to Will, to Will with the wild hair and the t-shirt with the holes in。
with the faded skinny jeans and worship with him so he wouldn't be alone.。
Church, that's what the birth of Jesus means.。
I've defined it in this way, I've put it on the screen for you.。
The birth of Jesus means radical action, radical behaviour, radical gospel, radical saviour,。
radical God.。
Now the next thing we see, point two is the shepherds were in shock.。
You can only imagine the first reaction of the shepherds.。
They were scared to death.。
They understood the appearance of angels as an omen, as though God was going to be bringing。
his wrath upon them.。
To allay their fears, the angels blurted out, "Don't be afraid for look, I proclaim to you。
good news of great joy.。
Today a saviour is born."。
And with that, the heavens opened with glorious music.。
It wasn't Ed Sheeran, but the heavenly chorus praised God and said, "Glory to God in the。
highest heaven and peace on earth to people he favours."。
In the midst of an ordinary night, ordinary shepherds encountered an extraordinary God.。
The shepherds must have been surprised that God broke into their ordinary lives.。
For us, Christ sometimes breaks into our lives when we least expect it.。
The picture you see on the screen is a man called Iphian Watkins.。
Iphian Watkins was a 65 year old retired Welsh minor.。
He loved Jesus and was desperate to know how God might use him in his senior years.。
He was sitting in the balcony of a church called King's Church.。
He was listening to a visiting speaker and minding his own business when the speaker,。
I kid you not, came off the stage, walked through the crowd and up to the balcony.。
He walks straight up to Iphian.。
Sitting before Iphian, the speaker looked him straight in the eye and said this to him,。
"God told me to tell you that you are not too old to start a church."。
That was the beginning of Ammanford Bible Church, known as ABC.。
Now the relevance of this to Sandra and I, is it was Iphian and ABC that led Sandra's。
dad Eric, who you saw earlier, to Jesus at the age of 68.。
Eric is a handyman, was.。
He helped ABC physically rebuild the church.。
Most noticeably, he built the baptistry.。
And in August 2001, was the first person to be baptised in it, with both Sandra and I。
in attendance.。
As I said, God sometimes breaks into our lives when we least expect it.。
God met the shepherds where and when they least expected to be met.。
After all, that's what the birth of Jesus means.。
The third thing we see is that sometimes seeing is believing.。
And the heavenly chorus sang glory to God.。
After this powerful display of praise, the shepherds just had to see for themselves.。
So they ran off to Bethlehem to experience what the angels told them.。
When we got to Bethlehem, we read this.。
So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger.。
When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what they had been told them about。
this child and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds says to them.。
When God offers grace, the appropriate response is exuberant joy.。
I repeat that, when God offers grace, the appropriate response is exuberant joy.。
Eventually, the whole world would celebrate the coming of this child.。
But for now, only shepherds knew what had happened in Bethlehem.。
The result was the response that should arise from all God's people.。
Verse 20, I'll put it on the screen, says, "The shepherds returned to their flocks glorifying。
and praising God."。
As we read Luke's account, we're filled with wonder.。
We expect something miraculous.。
We expect the amazement to continue.。
We want the mystery of this moment to continue because if we're really honest with ourselves,。
we long for something amazing in our lives.。
Our routines are sometimes so predictable.。
Our schedules, particularly in Hong Kong, are so frantic and programmed.。
Our days are so packed with stuff.。
I wonder if we allow ourselves time to live.。
Yet as we hear the angels singing and the shepherds hurrying and Mary pondering, we。
feel we must just find a little time to wonder.。
And yet again, we are struck by the routineness of it all, the normalness of it all.。
We've come from angels singing to glory to the daily ticking of the clock.。
The challenge for us is to always find ways of celebrating the presence of God in the。
ordinary moments of everyday life.。
In the smile of a friend, in the sharing of a meal, in the beauty of good music.。
As I conclude, one of the charges against the early church was this.。
In Acts 17, these men have turned the world upside down.。
When the shepherds had seen Jesus, their world was turned upside down.。
But the shepherds weren't content to just hear the message, were they?。
They wanted to learn about this saviour.。
And so without delay, they went to Bethlehem.。
It's interesting, isn't it?。
They didn't debate whether or not they had time to go, whether it was convenient for。
them.。
They didn't even worry about who would watch their sheep.。
They rushed to find out more about the saviour.。
And so we shouldn't be content just to hear about the saviour.。
You know, I've come to church today, I've ticked my box.。
But to hurry to Bethlehem to see the Christ child.。
Don't be satisfied just to make a note of Jesus once a year in the Christmas carols。
or in a Christmas service.。
But we should come and learn about him often.。
God's plan of salvation is awesome.。
And it has many facets to it.。
The more you listen to it and learn about it, the more joy it brings into your life.。
And it will prepare you to face any kind of difficulty you may have to face.。
Now don't get me wrong.。
There is nothing wrong with looking forward to our Christmas customs of opening presents。
and sharing dinners with loved ones.。
Yet those customs can never replace the real reason for our joy at Christmas.。
The birth of Jesus Christ, the saviour from sin.。
Don't let the customs crowd out the basics.。
Don't let the decorations and landmark replace the baby in the manger.。
Celebrate, celebrate like the shepherds by listening to the angel's message.。
That is what the birth of Jesus means.。
And church, as we sang earlier, go tell it on the mountains.。
Joy to the world, the Lord has come.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
