- Hello, everyone.。
Good evening.。
- Good evening.。
- I love waving.。
So we have been going through the first Corinthians.。
If this is the first time you're joining us, we're on actually chapter two.。
Today's topic, as you see, is judging righteous judgment.。
Now, I remember someone asking me, "What does that even mean?"。
Okay, we'll get to it in a moment.。
But I do want to start by asking you a question, which is, how many decisions do you know that。
we make each day?。
Can someone take a wild guess?。
Just shout out some numbers.。
- 10,000.。
- 10,000, okay.。
- Two.。
- Two?。
Two decisions.。
- Two decisions.。
- What to eat and what else?。
- What to wear.。
- What to wear, okay.。
So it's two and 10,000.。
- 20.。
- 20?。
Just 20.。
20, all right.。
- 100.。
- Good.。
- 100.。
- 100?。
Well, who else?。
- 20,000.。
- Huh?。
- 20,000.。
- 20,000, okay.。
All right.。
I like this.。
This is almost like an auction, you know?。
Too bad I'm not selling anything up here.。
But actually, we make 35,000 choices a day.。
35,000 choices.。
You're like, "Wait, when did I make that many?。
Who was the closest?。
Who says 20,000?"。
All right, but you don't get a prize except the acknowledgement of good job.。
All right, so 35,000.。
How do we do that?。
Well, think about it.。
The moment you wake up, you actually have to make a decision.。
Am I going to open my eyes or not?。
Then the alarm clock goes off if you made the decision to set it the previous night.。
Then you got to...。
Am I going to press the snooze or not or let it ring?。
And then when you walk to the bathroom, you got to think, "Am I going to have my eyes。
closed and walk there or am I going to have it open, okay?。
Am I going to have breakfast today?。
Am I going to brush my teeth before breakfast or afterwards?"。
So you see, maybe a little bit more than two.。
JP can make it with two choices.。
More than two is a waste of time.。
So you see, we have to make thousands every day and we don't even actually know it.。
But can you imagine if we're making them without thinking through what those consequences might。
be?。
You might think, "Well, it's not too much if I snooze it again, right?。
Oh, my alarm clock."。
But the thing is, if you snooze it and you oversleep just a little bit, what's going。
to happen?。
You're going to be late for work, okay?。
If you don't eat breakfast for too many days, you might get an ulcer or if not, stomach。
acid, so on and so forth.。
So you see, judgment or the choices that we make actually have consequences.。
Some of them bigger than others and some of them longer effects and some of them shorter.。
Now why do I want to bring that up?。
It's because as followers of Christ, and we need to make judgments.。
How are we going to be different than those in the world?。
You're like, "Well, honestly, Michelle, really, snoozing or not, does that have anything to。
do with me following Christ or not or what breakfast I eat?"。
Well, yes and no, because if we keep on being late to work, I don't know what kind of example。
we're giving to other people.。
And if we don't take care of our body and eventually there are some issues, I don't。
know what kind of message we're also sending out.。
So there's a question mark.。
But let's start with what is judging righteous judgment, okay?。
So let's start with the sound judgment.。
Do you all know what...。
How do we make...。
What's the definition of making a sound judgment?。
Don't worry, I'll give it to you.。
So it's really an evaluation, okay?。
So a sound judgment is an evaluation of a situation or a thing, okay?。
So you evaluate it and it allows you to make a decision, okay?。
But if it's a sound judgment, it's going to give you a favorable outcome.。
So what is then a poor judgment?。
It's actually literally almost the same, right?。
Which is an evaluation of the situation or the thing that allows you to make a decision。
what's gonna happen with the outcome.。
An unfavorable outcome, all right?。
Because we can't really see judgment, but we can see the manifestation of that judgment,。
right?。
All right, so now let's come to what is a righteous judgment.。
It's very similar.。
So it is going to be an evaluation of the situation or a thing that allows you to make。
a decision, and now what?。
That will honor God and follow His will.。
So today we're gonna talk about how as followers of Christ we're gonna do that together, okay?。
So let us start by reading 1 Corinthians 2:6-10.。
So verse six it says, "We do, however, speak a message of wisdom among the mature, but。
not the wisdom of this age or of the rulers of this age who are coming to nothing."。
So the first thing that we see is that there is a message of wisdom, but it's among certain。
people, not everybody, the mature.。
Now what kind of mature people are we talking about?。
Is it those who are over 60 and now with their octopus card can travel with the $2?。
I don't think he was talking about that.。
Or does it mean that you have been at church for the last 30 years or born in a family。
where you're already a believer?。
I don't think that's what Apostle Paul here is talking about.。
So who are the mature people?。
How do we even define that?。
So we're gonna go to 1 Corinthians 3, verse one to three, and get a glimpse.。
So this is what Paul says, "Brothers and sisters, I could not address you as people who live。
by the Spirit, but as people who are still worldly, mere infants in Christ.。
You are still worldly, for since there is jealousy and quarreling among you, are you。
not worldly?。
Are you not acting like mere humans?"。
So you see, Paul is telling us that if we live by the Spirit, we're no longer infants,。
right?。
We're people who would be mature, mature people.。
So you see, mature people are the people with the wisdom of God, and yet they are as defined。
here people who live by the Spirit.。
So we'll get to a moment what live by the Spirit means, but let's just stick with the。
Scripture in chapter two right now, that in order to make these righteous judgment, we。
first need to have wisdom.。
And if we need to have wisdom, we need to have lived by the Spirit.。
Now it's one thing to have the Spirit in you, and it's another thing to live by it.。
And I almost wanna use the analogy, let's say you own a car, okay?。
You put it in the parking lot, and you never really drive it.。
Do you have it?。
Yes.。
Do you live by it?。
Do you travel by it?。
No.。
It literally has no association with you.。
So in a moment, we'll look at what live by the Spirit's like.。
So okay, let's keep on reading.。
So first seven, it says, "No, we declare God's wisdom a mystery that has been hidden, and。
that God destined for our glory before time began."。
So we see that God's wisdom, it's a mystery.。
It's not for everyone, it's hard to understand, and it's hidden.。
So only some people find it.。
If it's hidden, that means not everybody finds it, and it's destined for our glory.。
Verse eight, it says, "None of the rulers of this age understood it, for if they had,。
they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.。
However, as it is written, 'What no eyes has seen, what no ear has heard, and what no human。
mind has conceived, the things God has prepared for those who love him.'"。
So what we find is that this wisdom from the Lord, okay, is not understood by everyone,。
especially the leaders, they don't understand it.。
It's hidden, okay?。
And actually, it's referring to right here, the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, because the。
people did not understand that Jesus came to save us, to wash away our sins, and instead,。
they don't understand that he is the son of God.。
So that's the specific wisdom that they're talking about here.。
But a greater wisdom that we're talking about is God's wisdom, is that it's not being understood。
by the rulers or the people of this world.。
But who is it for?。
Who is it for, prepared for?。
Those who love him.。
So now we know, let's recap a little bit, okay?。
Which is, God's wisdom is for those who are mature, which means they live by the spirit,。
and it's hidden, it's a mystery.。
And God has prepared it only for some people, and who are those?。
Who love him.。
All right?。
So now, this actually brings us to a first point when we think about, how do we judge。
this righteous judgment?。
How do we make this righteous judgment?。
Is that we need to have true wisdom revealed by his spirit.。
Because in verse 10, it actually says, "These things," which is the wisdom, "God has revealed。
to us by his spirit."。
Okay, and then we can go back to the first point.。
All right.。
So now my first question to you about this is, do you have wisdom from God?。
Who has wisdom from God?。
Put up your hand.。
Nobody here?。
Kind of, a little bit, I don't know.。
All right, well, in order to answer that question, maybe we can do a bit of a litmus test, okay?。
Okay, first, who has Holy Spirit living inside of you?。
Okay, got some people.。
Good, good.。
Now, if you're saying, "I don't know, I don't know."。
Well, if you have repented of your sins, and you have asked Jesus Christ to wash away your。
sins, and you have asked him to be your Lord and Savior, then you have Holy Spirit living。
inside of you, okay?。
So I think for most of us, this is not too hard of an answer, question.。
All right.。
So the next question is, is, who here thinks that you're a mature Christian, one that lives。
by the Spirit?。
Put up your hand.。
Okay, we see half a hand, all right.。
Brave someone, I won't call your name out.。
Okay, you're going like, "I don't know, this is such a hard question."。
Well, how are we going to go on if we can't even answer like the first, what was it, the。
first verse we read, right?。
We can't even know if we are living by the Spirit, then the rest of it seems a little。
bit hard.。
Okay, all right, we're going to get to living by the Spirit.。
Well, you see, what they said there earlier in chapter three was that those people, they're。
not jealous, okay?。
You're like, "Oh, when was the last time I was jealous?"。
They don't quarrel, okay?。
They're not worldly, worldly.。
All right, I don't know if you're...。
How do I answer that, right?。
But let's try to help all of us.。
This is not meant for you to cry when you leave this room.。
But then Holy Spirit lives inside of us.。
Therefore everything is revealed through the Holy Spirit.。
All right, so let's recap a little bit, okay?。
If living by the Spirit means following what the Spirit or interacting...。
Remember I was using the parked car?。
It means we're driving or...。
Wait, the Holy Spirit is driving us, not us driving Holy Spirit.。
And that should show in our everyday life, which means we can also do a test, okay?。
Remember how we said we make 35,000 decisions a day?。
So we can think about that.。
When you wake up, when you want to press that snooze button, does it ever cross your mind。
to live by the Spirit?。
Which is like, "God, do you want me to wake up or sleep for another 15?"。
Does it ever cross your mind?。
Like, "Oh God, there's a shortcut.。
I can do it easier for my workplace stuff.。
I don't know what you do.。
Can I just take the shortcut?"。
And with everything that we go through, do we invite Holy Spirit to be helping us?。
Even as simple as like, sometimes you want to watch TV for five hours, right?。
Just sometimes.。
And you say, "Should I?。
Should I not?"。
Even things like that.。
Or you argue with someone at your workplace or at home.。
Should I apologize?。
I don't know.。
I mean, if we were to live by the Spirit, really what it means is just all the time。
we have invited Him to be a part of what we make decisions on.。
Remember righteous judgment.。
Not sound judgment so we get benefits, but one that would honor Him.。
But I need to stress on the point, it is not by our own efforts, okay?。
Because we might want to do something for God, but that'll never work because it's just。
by our own efforts.。
But it says here that it's revealed by His Spirit.。
So every time we ask God, "God, help me.。
I know you don't want me to watch five hours of TV, but I'm at four and a half now.。
Help me stop."。
Right?。
I know I'm supposed to apologize, but I don't want it.。
Help me apologize.。
So we need to live by the Spirit.。
That is the very first thing.。
Otherwise, we have no wisdom from God.。
So let us read on.。
So in verse 10, it says, "The Spirit searches all things, even the deep things of God.。
For who knows a person's thoughts except their own spirit within them?。
In the same way, no one knows the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.。
What we have received is not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God,。
so that we may understand what God has freely given us.。
This is what we speak, not in words taught us by human wisdom, but in words taught by。
the Spirit, explaining spiritual realities with spiritual taught words."。
There's a lot of spiritual words there.。
And what does this really mean?。
I mean, it's Paul, Apostle Paul here is constantly contrasting between two kinds, okay?。
The world, human wisdom, and also Holy Spirit, and the words taught by Holy Spirit.。
And in verse 14, it says, "The person without the Spirit does not accept the things that。
come from the Spirit of God, but consider them foolishness and cannot understand them."。
Now we should not be in this category at least.。
We should have at least have Spirit inside of us.。
And those people though, they cannot understand them because they are only discerned through。
the Spirit.。
So you see, Paul, Apostle Paul here is telling us that only the Spirit of God knows the heart。
and the thoughts of God.。
Now I want to just pause for a moment, you know, because we talk about, "Oh yeah, we。
have Holy Spirit like all the time," right?。
But just think about this.。
The God of the universe, the creator of everything, places His Spirit inside of us, this regular。
person.。
It's like, it's so precious.。
And yet, you know, many times you just think, "Oh yeah, I hope God's Spirit's in me," you。
know?。
Like, do we even cherish it?。
Like I don't know what you cherish the most.。
Maybe some people are some models that they make, some people are cars and other things.。
What do you cherish?。
Do you cherish the God of the universe Spirit inside of you?。
Well that's just kind of, yeah, something when I have time I'll think about it.。
And I think, you know, we rarely take that into just a heart and say, "Oh God, you're。
here.。
Oh my goodness.。
Like how is that?。
How does that even work?"。
But anyways, I want to come back here, but I want us to really just grasp how precious。
it is to have God's Spirit in us.。
And don't take this lightly, like through some words.。
And why does He do that?。
So that we can understand His heart.。
We can know Him.。
We can understand Him.。
So this brings us to our second point that if we're to judge righteous judgments, we。
need to judge with words taught by the Holy Spirit.。
And what is that?。
I mean, there are all these different wisdoms in this world, right?。
Now if I asked you, like if there's an issue, a major issue that happens in your life, what。
do you do first?。
I mean, I don't know how many people pray first.。
I mean, for me, I'm guilty of this.。
I call a friend, right?。
I call an expert.。
And I read on a book.。
I mean, recently or not recently, but I always do it.。
I Google everything now.。
I mean, I really don't know how people survived like 10 years ago.。
Wait, I was still alive.。
I was alive 10 years ago.。
But now, you know, everything's like, "Oh, I'll Google and answer.。
I'll find a book that talks about that."。
And I'm not saying those are bad wisdom, right?。
It's wisdom of the world.。
But when is it that we're coming across a devastating situation and we just go and say,。
"God, so and so said this.。
The expert said that.。
Google said this.。
And by the way, the pastor said this."。
But when do we say, "What do you say, Lord?。
What do you say I should do?。
And I only want to follow you."。
I mean, if you happen to use one of the wisdom of the world, that's fine.。
But what's on your heart?。
And I realize a lot of times when I struggle with something and I seem to not find...。
You know, I'm anxious and I don't know what to do.。
And I realize when I just take that time, when I close my eyes and say, "God, what's。
on your heart?。
What do you want me to do?"。
And I want to say, surprisingly, he actually speaks.。
He actually speaks.。
You're like, "Wait, is that me just thinking, you know, paranoid, like a sound from my head?"。
Right?。
But you know.。
Why?。
Because Holy Spirit's here and he will help you discern.。
That's what the Bible said, right?。
And I remember once when I was asking God, "How should I fix this?"。
And I'm pretty sure he said something along the lines of the Bible verse.。
And I was like, "Nope, that's not from God, because that's not what I want to do."。
And I even said, "It must be the devil."。
Because now I'm using like, "Fan jyun joi fan jyun," you know?。
He's trying to trick me, so then that person can get off the hook real easy.。
I don't think so.。
But you know, five or 10 minutes later, I'm like, "Wait a minute.。
Am I trying to say that the evil one is trying to make me reconcile and that's not from God?"。
I don't know if you know what I'm doing, but it's called mental gymnastic, okay?。
And we're really good at it if we don't want to do something that God tells us.。
Mental gymnastic, I'm just doing somersaults in there.。
But if we're true to ourselves, we're just like, "All right, God, that's what you want。
me to do.。
I will do it."。
Because why?。
Righteous judgment.。
I want to honor you.。
It's not what the world says.。
It's not what I want, but fine.。
And then you do it.。
And you know what?。
God gets honored.。
And you're moving along in the maturity of your walk with God.。
And that is what Apostle Paul is speaking to us about.。
So we need to go by asking God what to do, not people.。
We could ask people, but ultimately we are taught by his spirit.。
Okay, so let's read on.。
So in verse 15, it says, "The person with the spirit makes judgments about all things,。
but such a person is not subject to merely human judgments.。
For who has known the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?。
That we have the mind of Christ."。
So you see, the person with the spirit of God is able to bring God's perspective into。
every aspect of life.。
Now we're not rejecting here.。
So it says that the spiritual person is not only subject to human judgments.。
It means that they're not only going with human wisdom or human knowledge, but if that。
person is spiritual, the one that we've defined, then they're always going to be able to bring。
in God's perspective into the situation.。
But notice something different this time.。
The first two time it was about, the first two, or the first section of the passage was。
very much on Holy Spirit, right?。
But notice the last line here, "But we have the mind of Christ."。
You know, the ultimate goal of righteous judgment, the ultimate goal to be following the spirit。
and allowing the spirit to teach us is one thing, is that we will have the mind of Christ.。
Now I won't even ask who has the mind of Christ here.。
You can answer that yourself, because the first two questions was hard enough, right?。
You see, it's one thing to do something because the Lord has told us to.。
And it's an entirely different thing when we are united with him in the same mind.。
What he wants actually becomes what we want.。
His mind is our mind.。
We have his mind.。
It is no longer like, "I told you to do that, so do it."。
Okay?。
It is, "Because I already have developed this characteristics, and now I'm going to do it。
because it's already part of me.。
I have the same mind as the Lord."。
And that's a progression.。
You see, from infants at the beginning of this passage, if we actually live by the spirit,。
we're actually mature people.。
And if we're actually willing to be taught by the spirit in the things that we're not。
willing to do, we're moving along in that maturity line, okay?。
And to a point one day where we are going to have the mind of Christ.。
And that, my friends, is what we are called to be as followers of Christ.。
I mean, I want to say there's no point, including for me, to be at church if 30 years from now,。
we're still in an infant stage.。
And I'm only speaking this because I challenge myself as well, not because I think I'm already。
here, but that we're all going there.。
So I want to encourage us every day, what choices, what judgments are we using to make。
our decisions?。
Now, last night as I was finishing off the sermon tonight, I was preparing, I felt tired。
because I'm just a normal human being.。
And so I decided before I sleep, you know what I'm going to do?。
Okay, not pray.。
I mean, I've already prayed.。
Oh, maybe I prayed afterwards.。
I was going to play some Candy Crush, okay?。
So it was like 12 a.m., right?。
All right.。
12 a.m., I'm like, "Okay, I need to let my mind loose just for a little bit, okay?。
Maybe I'll play like three games."。
All right.。
So I said, "Okay, I'll play three games."。
So as soon as I logged in, played, and they're like, "Oh, you have a two-hour bomb.。
If you've ever played, it's a freebie, it's a bonus.。
It means every game you're going to have a bomb that kind of wipes out half of the things。
you need to do.。
Anyways, if you've not played it, don't worry.。
It's just a bonus thing."。
It's like for two hours, I need to sleep.。
Okay, so I thought to myself, "Just three to five games, you know, relax a little bit."。
I'm playing, playing, and it's like 12, 15.。
Oh, 15.。
Maybe two more games.。
All right, so I play, play, play, play.。
And I was like, "Wait a minute.。
I need to give a sermon on righteous judgment, to honoring God, to following His will."。
And I'm telling everybody, you know, don't press the snooze button or be on time, you。
know, eat healthy, sleep early, and do the things that the Lord wants us to do, right?。
I'm like, "12, 30."。
So I'm like, "Wait a minute.。
This will really serve well if I can put it into the sermon.。
So if I can stop right now, it's still good, right?。
12, 40."。
And all of a sudden, I realize, I was like, "Wait a minute.。
All this time, I have wanted to follow God.。
But what does the Bible say?。
By His spirit, not by yourself."。
So I prayed to God, "God, please help me.。
This is the last game and I need to turn this off.。
Please help me, okay?"。
So there I was, right when I finished.。
I just like exit.。
I don't know why I couldn't do it like the previous 40 minutes, you know, and I just。
exit.。
And I was like, "Bingo, this goes into the sermon."。
Because I realized, why do we fail so many times?。
It's because we, if we even tried, was by our own efforts.。
I need to stop playing this.。
I need to do that.。
I need to apologize.。
I need to like reconcile.。
I need to do this.。
I need to love my enemy.。
But what are we doing it by?。
Our own efforts.。
I mean, it's a good intention, I think.。
But I realized, "Oh my goodness, the moment I prayed was the moment that it happened."。
And so I realized how little we even depend on God to just try to be followers of Him.。
Maybe that's why we failed.。
But I think today, Apostle Paul is reminding us also that the wisdom to even follow, to。
know Him, to follow Him, is not by us, not by our efforts, but our invitation.。
"Lord, help me do this.。
This is what you want.。
Lord, what should I do in this difficult situation?"。
Inviting Him.。
And eventually, I do believe that all of us will have the mind of Christ.。
So I don't know about you.。
I mean, how many times or how truly...。
I'm sure we have intentions to be followers, right?。
Otherwise, you would not be here on a Saturday night.。
You would not be online watching.。
Intentions is one thing, right?。
But Holy Spirit is a whole other different world.。
It brings us to spiritual realities.。
It brings us to the heart of God and the strength to do what He asks us.。
So as we close, we're going to sing a response song, "Spirit Breakout."。
And I really just wanted us to, not like me for 40 minutes trying to do it on my own,。
but always invite Him from the smallest decisions, opening my eyes, to when I go to bed, still。
working on that, but not by ourselves.。
Can we depend on Him more?。
Can we invite Him in more?。
Can we live by the Spirit instead of park Him at the parking lot and then do our thing。
and wonder why nothing's working out?。
I think we can all do that.。
And I hope my little failure/at the end success reminds you.。
Maybe there are things you want to change for the Lord and it's taken forever.。
Maybe we all need to just depend on the Holy Spirit.。
If we have a willingness, if we ask Him, because He already lives in here, right?。
We only go for a ride with Him, He's going to take us to places we've never been to before,。
to understand the Father's heart, His will, and to make righteous judgments that at the。
end people will know that we are Christ's followers and that God will have all the honor。
because He did it the whole way, right?。
Okay.。
So let us pray together and ask God to help us.。
Dear Heavenly Father, you know our hearts and I really believe that all of us sitting。
here or watching online, that we have a desire to follow you.。
And yet Father, sometimes we're not even holding onto the most precious thing, your Spirit。
living inside of us.。
And we might not even ask you to help.。
And Father, today you remind us that we're not here to make judgments so that we can。
live well and have a sound outcome.。
We're here because we hope that whatever decisions we make will ultimately glorify and honor。
you.。
Ones that are in alignment with your will.。
And we pray, Father, that as we forget sometimes, or maybe we're lazy sometimes, that you continue。
to just help us, even as we just say, "Help us, Lord."。
As simple as that.。
And that's when your Holy Spirit comes into our lives.。
It changes our decisions and we'll make good judgments because of you.。
So Father, we pray that all of us now just want to open up ourselves and say, "Spirit,。
help us.。
Change us.。
Break us down."。
So that we, as followers of Christ, are not doing it by ourselves, but we're totally dependent。
on you.。
We invite you, Father, to do whatever it is that you want in our lives so that we can。
make good, righteous judgments.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
