Thank you, Pastor Johnny.。
Good evening, everyone.。
It's so great to be able to worship God with you.。
And today I'll be speaking on the topic, belief.。
Now you know, one of the hardest things sometimes is to have faith.。
I mean, it's easy to have faith when everything is smooth sailing, but it's so much harder。
when things go south and things are rough.。
And how can we still believe when our circumstances or situation seems to be crumbling down?。
And this is what we're going to be talking about tonight.。
Because usually at that time, what will we feel?。
We'll feel anxious, worried, or we're not quite sure actually how to pray at that time.。
So should we pray optimistically, but then at the same time, we might get disappointed.。
Now how many people have experienced that?。
Can you put it in the chat box if you have experienced a hard time having faith in God。
when the circumstances are against you?。
If you do, you can just say yes in the chat box.。
All right, we've got one.。
And two, maybe a few more.。
Yes, often someone says.。
Yes, yes.。
So yes, and that's the thing.。
It just seems like the truth be told, sometimes it is easier to believe and depend on God。
than other times.。
And no, I'm not talking about like not believing that God has sent Jesus to die on the cross。
for us and to die for our sins and resurrect.。
We're not talking about that.。
But it's the kind of faith where we can continue to depend on him and trust him in all of our。
circumstances.。
Now maybe you might be anxious about which school you should go to, which job you should。
take, or maybe you're worried about your finances and not having enough to go by for another。
few months.。
Or you might be anxious about whether or not you ever find yourself a wife or husband or。
be able to have children.。
And some of us might be worried about going old and having to be by ourselves.。
And I mean, I could just go on and on.。
But our faith in God seems to shrink when God doesn't seem to be acting out as we expect。
or hope when times are rough.。
And we might lose our peace as well as we constantly think about those problems.。
So what is it about our problems that make it so scary?。
Is it because it seems to be out of control and impossible to handle?。
Or is it because the consequences seems to be too unbearable?。
Well, you see, as we focus on the problem, and the more we look at it, the more scared。
we are.。
But if we look towards someone who can save us, and someone who has that power, then we're。
going to have faith.。
Now one of the imageries that I like a lot is when a baby rests really peacefully in。
the caretaker's arms.。
And we might even have a few here on screen, but we probably can't put them on.。
And it just looks like this, right?。
It almost seems like whatever is happening, COVID, no job, anything, nothing seems to。
be bothered, or the baby doesn't seem to be bothered by it.。
And today we're actually going to look into the scripture.。
Mark chapter 4, verse 35 to 41.。
And we're very glad because as we are going to listen to the scripture today, we actually。
have a video to go with it.。
And so we're going to play that, and that will be the exact scripture that we need to。
read today.。
That day when evening came, he said to his disciples, "Let us go over to the other side."。
Leaving the crowd behind, they took him along just as he was in the boat.。
There were also other boats with him.。
A furious squall came up, and the waves broke over the boat so that it was nearly swamped.。
Jesus was in the stern, sleeping on a cushion.。
The disciples woke him and said to him, "Teacher, don't you care if we drown?"。
He got up, rebuked the wind, and said to the waves, "Quiet, be still."。
Then the wind died down, and it was completely calm.。
He said to his disciples, "Why are you so afraid?。
Do you still have no faith?"。
They were terrified and asked each other, "Who is this?"。
Even the wind and the waves obey him.。
So in this account, it might be quite familiar to many of you, because it has been recorded。
in three out of the four Gospels, except this time we'll look at it specifically as how。
the Gospel of Mark has recorded it.。
And as you saw, there was a great storm, and the waves were actually breaking the boat.。
The boat was already filled with water, and Jesus was sleeping on the boat.。
Of course, we always wonder, how is it possible that Jesus sleeps like this?。
But that's what is recorded.。
And they went to wake him up, saying, "Teacher, don't you care that we are perishing?"。
And this is one of the lines that always fascinates us, because right now, the disciples have。
already been with Jesus for numerous times.。
They've seen him heal the sick and open the eyes of the blind.。
And yet, what we still notice is that they're still calling him what?。
"Teacher."。
And that's actually the very first point that I want to get at, which is, in order for us。
to have that peace in our heart, we actually need to know Jesus as God.。
But they actually only know him as a teacher.。
Now we might wonder, where did this concept of a teacher come from?。
Now we look more closely in Mark chapter 1, verse 27, when Jesus first casted out demons,。
they were all amazed.。
And that they questioned among themselves, saying, "What is this?。
A new teaching with authority?。
He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obeyed him."。
And so they knew that he was a teacher, but this teacher was very different.。
He had authority, even over demons, even over the sick.。
But in this vision was actually quite limited of what Jesus was, because they could only。
see that Jesus was a teacher, and hence, it really limited their faith.。
And it probably looked like this chart below, that their faith was limited because they。
saw him probably more than a teacher, and you can see it in that box, maybe somewhere。
between a teacher and God, but they're not quite sure.。
And you know, the more unsure we are of who Jesus is, the more we cannot trust him or。
rely on him, especially during hardships.。
And here we realize that their faith was limited because they didn't really know who Jesus。
was.。
And so this brings us to our first point, and that is, we need to recognize that Jesus。
is way more than a teacher, he is God, and that we need to believe that he is God.。
And you see, in this story, it first shows us that it's almost like us, when we first。
hear about Jesus, we might be like the disciples too.。
We might think that he's a great teacher, someone powerful, maybe someone with even。
great philosophy, and maybe even authorities over demons.。
But maybe we don't really see him as God.。
And that we can't see him as someone who's able to save us in our situation.。
And so we must begin to tell ourselves the truth from the Bible, that he is God, and。
he is savior.。
And until we recognize that, Jesus will just be a teacher, and our faith will be wavering。
all the time.。
And this revelation of Jesus being God will be slowly revealed to the disciples.。
And as he see, as they saw him go up to the cross, they slowly realize who he was.。
And when he resurrected, that's when they really know that he is God.。
And so the same for us, we need to recognize that he is God, so that we can trust him with。
all our problems.。
And the second thing that we notice is that the disciple says, "Do you not care that。
we perish?"。
Now, really, the second problem with the disciple is that they questioned if Jesus really cared。
for them.。
Now, if you're with some people, and you don't think that they actually care about。
you, but there's no way you can trust them or to believe them.。
Yeah, sure, they can be all powerful, they can do all these wonderful and great things.。
But really, it's got nothing to do with you, because, well, he doesn't care about you.。
So the second thing that we must also believe is that we must believe he cares about us.。
Now, one of the crucial part about having faith in God and a peaceful mind is to know。
how much Jesus deeply cares about you.。
And just like when we have communion just now, it was a remembrance that he loved us。
so much that he went on to the cross for us to die for all of our sins.。
And so as the Bible tells us how much he loves us, that's the truth that we need to believe。
in, but not the circumstances that we see.。
But in here, we actually see the disciples' emotions.。
What were their emotions in this verse?。
Well, actually, to me, it seemed like they were more irritated and frustrated and grumbling。
and even blaming Jesus than they were scared.。
So we might think, how come?。
Well, I mean, if we think about it, I mean, after all, didn't all their disciples just。
left their home?。
They left everything to follow him, but they didn't expect him to be, what, sleeping while。
they were dying and drowning.。
And too often, we too hold the greatest grudges against God.。
When we see that, he has the ability, but he's not helping us in our situation.。
And you know what's even worse?。
It's worse when we think we're a dedicated Christian.。
Like if you have been going to church for many years or if you've been reading the Bible。
or if you're on the worship team, not picking on you guys, worship team, or like a church。
staff or even a pastor or attending Bible school, you know, the more we think we have。
invested in Jesus and in God and the more delay or it seemed like if Jesus is sleeping。
during your problem, we start to actually be grumbling like the disciples too.。
And I just wanted to say as much as we feel these emotions, the fact is the Bible tells。
us that Jesus does care about us because he came for us and he would never forsake us。
and he even gave us eternal life.。
And that's the truth.。
And so it's a battle for us to trust God when the situation seems to be really bad.。
And or even the delay of his help, we need to trust him and his words.。
And the fact is the Bible tells us that Jesus cares about us.。
It's written all over the Bible in the Old Testament, in the New Testament.。
And so much, this cannot just stay as a head knowledge, but it must speak to our heart.。
And when we forget, we need to remind ourselves in the midst of our troubles that Jesus cares.。
Now as we read on, we see that Jesus calmed the wind and the sea and actually he turned。
to them and he asked them, why are you afraid?。
Have you still no faith?。
Now the Greek word here for afraid is actually Delos.。
It's a different kind of afraid, it's not really that fear because it's appeared only。
three times in the Bible.。
And this word actually means little faith.。
So he's literally saying, why are you having so little faith?。
Have you got no faith?。
And this is one of the questions where we're going like, Jesus, how come you're asking。
this question?。
Well, let's see why I have no faith.。
Well, the boat is breaking and we're drowning and dying and you're asking this question.。
It's almost seemed like if it weren't Jesus asking, we'll be a little bit annoyed.。
But we know that Jesus doesn't ask questions without a good reason.。
There's something more that Jesus is asking.。
Now we've already established in the first point that they didn't really see Jesus as。
God, and that's part of the reason why they're having so much trouble in having faith in。
him.。
But what else is hindering them from having faith?。
Now Jesus could well be asking you the same question.。
How come when you've read the Bible, you believe in God and now we even know he is resurrected,。
so we have more information than the disciples.。
But when we are faced with really tough situations, why do you not have faith?。
And can you type in the chat box, why is it that we have no faith during that time?。
It's quite a profound question.。
I actually asked myself this and I tried to answer it.。
It's quite hard.。
Okay, so far I've seen no answers come in yet.。
But what I think that Jesus is trying to get at, oh yes, we underestimate God, good.。
And we overestimate man.。
These are the answers I'm seeing in our chat box.。
And because we only see our circumstances, great.。
No close relationship with God.。
And it's easy to look at our circumstances and forget about Jesus.。
Yes, and these are great answers.。
And I do think so too.。
And there is one where I think Jesus is trying to get at, which is for them, they didn't。
have a personal encounter with God.。
And I think somebody here also said no personal relationship with God.。
Now as it is narrated in the later part, they said that they were terrified and they asked。
each other, who is this?。
Even the wind and the waves obey him.。
And they were just beginning to have more revelation of who Jesus is.。
So this comes to our third point, which is we need to personally encounter God.。
Now think about this, who is this miracle for?。
Well it was for the disciples.。
And what was the purpose of this miracle?。
Because Jesus crossed the Sea of Galilee and he was away from the crowd.。
He was only with his disciples and they could have just crossed smoothly across to the other。
side.。
What was the purpose of this miracle?。
It was actually to allow the disciples to know who he is through a very personal encounter.。
Now because at the end of the miracle, the disciples had new revelation and they also。
have experienced God and they were no longer seeing him as someone who healed other people.。
He was no longer seeing Jesus as someone who cast out demons for others, but they were。
seeing him as the one right before their eyes, able to calm down the wind and the sea and。
the wind and the sea obeyed him.。
He was able to save them.。
So they were able to experience all of that, God's timing and helping them.。
It wasn't immediate, but when they called him, he, they, when they called him, he answered。
and they were able to experience his care and his power.。
They were able to be challenged by Jesus right there about their faith.。
They were able to come to a personal revelation and this they wouldn't have done if they haven't。
had a personal encounter with God.。
They would have just crossed without anything happening.。
And are we like that too?。
We've heard about Jesus.。
We might have even read a lot about him, but sometimes he might not be a personal God to。
us.。
He is God.。
He is good, but he seems to be somewhere far helping others, but not necessarily you.。
And until we have encountered him personally and seen him active in our lives, in our problems,。
he could just stay there being an impersonal God or even just a teacher and our faith would。
be very limited.。
Now as his disciples built this deeper relationship with him and got to experience him more, their。
faith grew.。
And until the very end, we actually see in later parts of the new Testament, they had。
so much faith that many miracles were performed through them and God used them greatly.。
So this is actually great news for us because if we are like the disciples too, when we。
doubted at times of hardship or when we're slow to realize who he is, but we can see。
that through many personal relationship and encounter with him, we're actually allowing。
God to reveal himself to us and we too can become faithful disciples.。
So we have a lot of hope.。
And sometimes we get so bogged down by the situation itself, we miss out on what's the。
most precious thing, which is God himself.。
To be able to live life with God, even through the hardships, even to struggle with him or。
even be a bit angry with him and then to rely on him and to be challenged by him.。
That is precious.。
And so we too need to know him personally and encounter him in order for our faith to。
grow.。
Now some months ago, I learned about a little boy and he's around three right now.。
And he has been battling with cancer for the last year and a half.。
And just a week ago, we found out that he might not be able to make it anytime.。
Now the tumor got so big that it was pressing on his urethra and he wasn't able to urinate。
and he was hospitalized the last two weeks.。
And I remember just thinking about him and I was starting to tear up and just thinking。
about how this three-year-old boy who has to suffer the pain of chemo, not being able。
to urinate and this little body, and especially if you've been a parent, to have to go through。
this kind of a sickness in 50% of his life.。
And the suffering is for both him and the parents.。
And to our human minds, it begs the question, God, can't you do something?。
Don't you care?。
And the parents are also Christians to have them been praying for him.。
And as we got to talk to the dad like two days ago on Thursday, a sister and I were。
able to pray for them.。
And I really wasn't sure how to pray because he was so sick.。
And I had prepared actually two children's books in my backpack.。
One of it that introduced who Jesus was, and another that talked about what heaven is like。
to prepare him for it.。
And I was afraid to pray too optimistically, because then maybe they'll be disappointed。
at the outcome if it's not favorable.。
But then a thought came into my mind, and it seemed to ask me, who is it that you believe。
in?。
And to me, the answer was plain and simple.。
The God of the universe, who has authority on heaven and on earth.。
He who loves us so much that he sent Jesus to die for us.。
The one who loves this little one and his family.。
So I knew right there how to pray.。
Not with full assurance of what the outcome would be, but with full assurance of who God。
is.。
And so we started praying for him.。
And before we did that, I asked the dad, what would you like Jesus to do for you?。
And he said, he isn't asking for God to necessarily cure him, but he just wanted more time with。
the boy.。
And so I said, that's the direction we'll pray.。
And the gist of the prayer went something like this.。
Dear heavenly father, the God of the universe, the one who has authority on heaven and earth,。
the one who loves us so much that you gave your son to us, Jesus, you love us and this。
little boy and his family.。
We know that you're listening right here and you're with us.。
And we pray that you will give this boy more time with his family.。
But we'll leave the outcome into your hands.。
In Jesus Christ name we pray.。
Amen.。
And as an act of faith, I only gave him the book that introduced who Jesus was.。
And I put away this other book, which talked about heaven, and I was planning to refund。
it because I don't think we'll need it.。
As my act of faith.。
Now on Friday, we prayed on Thursday and on Friday, just yesterday, we received this message。
from his dad.。
Just want to share with you an update.。
Just want to share an update with all of you.。
The little boy's condition is improving.。
He had a major breakthrough today.。
In a very literal sense, the tumor that was pressing on his urethra for the last two weeks。
and made him unable to pee, he is now, sorry, the tumor was pressing on his urethra and。
he was unable to pee for two weeks now.。
His diaper last night was soaked with urine, which means the tumor must be shrinking and。
alleviating the pressure.。
Miracles happen and we pray he continues to improve.。
And I just want to say, hallelujah.。
That is our God.。
Can we all give God a big hand?。
I don't know where you are, but when I heard that, it was the God I know.。
So, my dear friends, miracles happen every day because the miracle worker is well and。
alive.。
He healed the lepers, he opened the eyes of the blind, he calmed the sea, and he still。
does that today because he is God.。
Rather or not, you have faith in Jesus, depends on who he is to you.。
And if you have encountered him personally, you would know this.。
And I encounter him like this all the time.。
So I have a few questions for you.。
Who is Jesus to you?。
And I want to show these options for you to see for yourself.。
Is he a teacher?。
A prophet?。
Someone who might be God?。
Or he is God?。
Who is Jesus to you?。
And you don't have to answer in the chat box.。
Just answer in your heart.。
And the second question I want to ask you is, does he care about you?。
Do you know for sure that he cares about you?。
Is it maybe?。
A little bit?。
Sometimes?。
Always?。
All the time?。
What is it?。
Do you think he cares about you all the time?。
That's another question for you to answer.。
And the third question that I want to ask you is, have you invited him into your daily。
life?。
Maybe a little?。
Sometimes?。
Or depends on what?。
Or always?。
All the time?。
Do you invite him into your daily lives?。
Rather, there are things that you don't care.。
So you're like, all right, I'll leave that to God.。
Or things that you really care.。
Do you invite him into your daily life?。
Now, all these questions are for you to answer.。
Because how you answer these questions will determine what happens to you.。
And how you encounter our God.。
Are you willing to decide today and firmly tell yourself and the world that Jesus is。
God and he loves you and cares for you all the time, anytime?。
And do you let him take care of you and whatever the outcome may be?。
If you're willing, God will give you faith and peace that you've never felt before.。
Now, each time you have a problem, make the choice.。
Say no to fear or how bad the situation is.。
Don't zero off on the situation.。
Say yes to him.。
Say yes to his character.。
Say yes, he is God to me.。
He is my God.。
And he loves me.。
And leave the outcome to him.。
And how do we build more faith?。
And what does it look like to invite God into your everyday life?。
Well, if you've been waiting for some time for a spouse, don't focus on the fact that,。
oh, I'm getting older.。
And there are very few eligible bachelor or bachelorettes at church.。
No.。
Focus on God's word, his character, and his promises.。
And your prayer can look something like this.。
You are the God of the universe.。
And you have authority over everything.。
You love me and you care about me so, so much.。
Please make me a godly person and give me a godly spouse.。
And while you're waiting, upgrade yourself, prepare yourself as an act of faith.。
I mean, there might be a few weird things that you're doing.。
So yeah, try to change that.。
But leave the outcome to God and have peace, whatever it is that he gives you.。
And experience him, struggle with him, cry with him.。
That is precious.。
And while you do that, God will reveal more of himself to you.。
And if you've been waiting for years for your sickness to be healed, don't focus on the。
fact that, "Oh, I've tried this, I've done that, I went to this doctor, I don't think。
I'm going to get any better."。
Let's just hope that things don't get worse.。
No.。
Focus on God's word, his character, his promise.。
And you can pray a prayer like this.。
You are the God of the universe.。
And you have authority over everything.。
You love me and you care for me.。
Please help me know how to eat, which doctor to go to, and take away my sickness.。
And while you're waiting, eat healthy, take the medicine you need to as an act of faith,。
and let God have the outcome and have peace.。
Enjoy him in the process.。
And I know if these things sounds like, "Oh, these are too hard.。
These are too big for me."。
Start with the smaller stuff.。
You can pray for God to help you with your project that you're working on, the exam that。
you'll be taking next week, or just trying to catch the minibus that you always miss,。
or with your baking as if it always goes bad, and with your tennis match.。
Now, I'm not sure if both of you are praying at the same time who will win, or maybe one。
match per person.。
But what I mean is, invite God to be a part of your everyday life.。
Start with the small things and build that trust so that when you're faced with big problems,。
you'll remember, "He has done this for me, and that was how I could also pray because。
I remember he has done so much for me.。
I know I can pray on his character."。
And allow him to work every single issue or happy things in your life because he wants。
to be your personal God.。
And that's how we're going to have faith.。
And you know, this is like a snowball effect.。
The more you allow him to be in your life, the more you pronounce his goodness and who。
he is, the more faith you have.。
Remember the sister who was praying with me for the dad of the little boy?。
After we saw the miracle that happened, she messaged me, and then she told me, "You know。
what?。
Even as impossible as it may seem to our earthly standpoint, I think we have nothing to lose。
in terms of being bold in our prayers and praying for full recovery for the boy."。
I don't know what the outcome would be, but you see that?。
That's faith growing.。
And I knew right there that both of our faith and all of our faith that has been hearing。
this testimony right now, our faith are growing.。
And at first, we only dare to pray for more time.。
But the revelation and the personal encounter of who Jesus is, is giving us more faith to。
be more bold, not for the outcome, but for who he is.。
He is our personal God.。
And our prayers would never be the same again.。
And we got to know Jesus more and experience him more.。
And then we have more faith.。
So whatever it is, say no to fear of your problem.。
Are you afraid you won't get into the university you want to go in or get that job you want?。
Are you afraid that you may never find the right person to date or get married to?。
Are you afraid that your relationship won't get better and it's dwindling off?。
Are you afraid that you won't have children?。
Are you afraid that your children won't get into a good school?。
Are you afraid your depression or sickness won't go away?。
Are you afraid your children will abandon you as you grow older?。
There are so many things we can fear, but it's time to say no to all that fear and impossibility.。
And it's time to say yes to who Jesus is and that he is God.。
He is your savior.。
It's time to say yes to how much he cares about you and remind yourself of his saving。
grace whenever you doubt.。
And it's time to say yes.。
We want you in every part of our lives because the moments that we spend with God, they're。
precious.。
They're precious.。
Jesus was only on the boat with his closest disciples and he is with us with every situation。
that we're in.。
That is precious and our faith will continue to grow deeper.。
So let him into your life.。
Invite the way maker, the miracle worker, the promise keeper into your life.。
Enjoy the personal relationship with him anytime, whether you're struggling or not.。
And start with the small things if the big ones are too hard and let him grow your faith。
because he is here, he's working in our midst and he loves you.。
So believe him.。
Let us pray together.。
Dear heavenly father, you are our God, regardless of the situation we're in.。
And you are the one who holds the key and authority over demons, over sickness, over。
our circumstances, over nature, over everything.。
And father, we just pray that we would have faith like this, not on whatever the outcome。
would be, but on you alone, your character, your presence, and you are on the boat with。
us.。
And I pray father, that all of us in this life that we live in, that we get to encounter。
you every day.。
And if we do that, it's heaven on earth.。
Because that place called heaven, it's only called heaven because you're there.。
And if you're here with us today, it's already heaven.。
We thank you for loving us.。
Help us grow in our faith.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
