Today I will share with you about the KFCC.。
I have said for a long time that I will go to KFCC.。
I will go this year.。
I will step out of this place in May or June.。
You may see me on Sunday.。
I will be at KFCC.。
KFCC is not about last year or recently.。
It is because of the idea of 2020.。
I hope that through the 4 walls of the church,。
we can lead people to the community and serve those in need.。
What have we done in the past few years?。
I have a short clip to share with you.。
Please share the clip with me.。
In this short clip, I have talked about what we have done in the past 2-3 years.。
If you pay attention, you will see that in August,。
we held a "Dream Flyer" event in the second floor.。
It teaches students how to fly a plane.。
If you notice, there is a girl who is sitting on a wheelchair.。
This girl is just like everyone else.。
She is healthy. She is not born with it.。
However, during COVID-19,。
she had her first vaccine and became like this.。
She could not move her whole body.。
Only her head could move.。
When we heard about this, we were shocked.。
How could this happen?。
She is just like us. She is a lively girl.。
She is a normal student.。
But in the end, she had to spend her life on a wheelchair.。
When she arrived, her mood was not good.。
She thought that she had not been to church before.。
She did not know why, but she knew about this event.。
She was still able to believe that her dream would come true.。
Although she was sitting on a wheelchair,。
she still believed that her dream could come true.。
So she joined this event.。
When she arrived, everyone was shocked to hear her story.。
We did not have any sympathy or anything special for her.。
We just wanted to make it easier for her to participate.。
If you saw the video, we were playing a game of wheelchairs.。
She could join us.。
After four days of church,。
her parents came to visit her.。
They were very grateful to God.。
They believed in Jesus and were saved.。
I believe that in the future,。
there will be more stories like this in KFCC.。
These stories will not only happen in KFCC.。
I believe that everyone here has their own story.。
Your stories can also inspire the local people to know God better.。
Today, I would like to share a scripture with you.。
This scripture is in Proverbs 11, 24-28.。
It says,。
"Those who have a good heart are more generous,。
those who are too cautious are rebellious,。
those who are too selfish are too generous,。
those who are too wise are too wise."。
It is obvious that those who are too cautious。
will receive more blessings and more blessings.。
Those who are helpful will receive more blessings.。
This is a very special principle in the Bible.。
Why? Because it is said in the world that。
the more we save, the more we will have.。
Is this what the world thinks?。
The more we save, the more we will have.。
But it is completely different in the law of God.。
When we are willing to share with others,。
God has given us resources,。
which include money, time, love, and talent.。
God has bestowed all these things on us.。
If we are willing to share our time, love, and talent,。
our lives will be more abundant.。
It is not just about material abundance.。
Our souls will be more abundant.。
On the other hand, it is also said that。
when we are not willing to share with others,。
we may lose what we have.。
Why?。
When we are not willing to share with others,。
we will naturally feel empty and lonely,。
and even lose the blessings from God.。
I would like to share with you。
the love, talent, time, and material abundance。
that Jesus Christ has given us.。
Why do we need to care for those in need?。
First, if we are Christians,。
this is a testimony of love.。
When we practice the teachings of Jesus Christ,。
we are shown the love of Jesus Christ by others.。
When we sit here every week,。
we hear that the core value of Christianity is love.。
Do we sit here every week and be a Christian?。
No, we don't.。
We must practice what we have learned。
and show the love of Jesus Christ to others.。
Second, we need to change the lives of those in need.。
A simple action can change a person's life.。
I remember that I did an interview with Dr. Ho。
and the women in the interview were all single parents.。
When they see young people visiting them,。
they are the happiest.。
Not only can they have time to talk to them,。
but they can also have life-changing interactions.。
I believe this is an important element of life-changing.。
Third, we need to cultivate our character.。
We need to learn to be reasonable,。
to know the needs of others,。
to be patient and to be grateful.。
These are all precious characteristics of life.。
Gratefulness.。
Everyone sitting here, including me,。
I think we all need to be grateful.。
Because it is not necessary for us to be able to breathe,。
to sit here and to go to church.。
We need to learn to be grateful.。
Have you heard of the story of a child?。
I shared it with you.。
They have never eaten mooncakes.。
They have never eaten radish cakes.。
I believe that by the new year,。
they will not want to eat them anymore.。
There are many children and families。
who have never even eaten radish cakes.。
So our gratitude is not only for the life-giving elements,。
but also for the good family,。
which has enough food and supplies.。
So I ask God to help us learn to be grateful.。
Young people, how do you practice this concern?。
I hope you can participate in volunteer activities,。
community services, church care,。
volunteer work and charity activities.。
I hope you will do these volunteer activities with a sincere heart.。
I believe that some of these activities are not sincere.。
I know that many of you have to take exams at university.。
So you have to do it for a better portfolio.。
But it is not sincere.。
I have seen some young people。
who have no smile on their faces when they do volunteer work.。
I think to myself, "Why don't you go home?"。
So if you want to do it,。
you really have to do it with a sincere heart.。
If you don't want to participate in volunteer work,。
you can start to learn to care about the people around you,。
including your classmates, family and neighbors.。
You can learn to care about them.。
Share time and resources.。
Simply accompany, listen and share life materials.。
You can accompany your friends.。
Listen to them and tell them whether they are happy or not.。
You don't accompany them to play games.。
You don't accompany them to overcome obstacles.。
You don't need to accompany them too much.。
Finally, I want to share with you.。
The Bible has told us that。
in the 20th chapter of the book of Exodus,。
there is a saying,。
"The more you give, the more you will receive."。
When we can give with a sincere heart,。
we will feel contentment and joy.。
When we know why we need to help others,。
we can become God's hands and feet.。
God can do it, but he does it through you.。
He brings his love to every corner.。
We say that caring has many benefits.。
First, we can do some explorations。
to reduce the loneliness of the elders.。
We can encourage our friends to go out and do activities.。
We can help those in need.。
When we have abundant material,。
we are willing to help those in need.。
We say we want a fair society.。
What is the real fairness?。
We need to think about what is the real fairness.。
I have told you before what is fairness.。
Six char siu bao for two people.。
What do you think is fairness?。
Three for each person.。
It is very fair.。
But one person just finished a very full meal of buffet.。
The other person didn't eat for two days.。
How can we be fair if we share the char siu bao for two people?。
So we need to learn what is the real fairness.。
We will discuss it in your group.。
The power of caring is great.。
We often say we are helping others.。
We seem to be very good at helping others.。
But we have grown up in the process of helping others.。
We have cultivated empathy and responsibility.。
We can also encourage the community to help those in need。
through different activities.。
We can help the community to make progress.。
We can help those in need and。
encourage those who want to move up.。
We can reduce the government's expenses.。
We can make the world a better place.。
Lastly, I want to encourage everyone.。
You are all young, talented and have a heart.。
I hope you can take this step with courage。
and help those in need with your heart.。
Don't underestimate your own small actions.。
Because every action of yours can bring a lot of change.。
God has given us a lot of grace and ability.。
If we are willing,。
we can make a big change with our small actions.。
I think we can always play and have fun.。
But if you can use your time to think about。
what you can do for others,。
I believe you can make others happier.。
We have different activities in the South District.。
I have a little announcement.。
On 24th December, the Peace Day,。
which is the Peace Day in 2025,。
we will be at the Hong Kong Children's Centre.。
If you live in that area,。
you will know that there used to be a kindergarten there.。
We are at the kindergarten.。
Jose, you are the closest.。
So you can come and help us.。
What will we do at the Hong Kong Children's Centre?。
We will have a radio broadcast for half a day.。
I hope we can make a radio team.。
We will have a time slot for the local residents.。
Please continue to help us.。
We can help people who are close to us.。
We can also help people from far away.。
God has given us different leaders and ideas.。
I am happy to have invited two former students.。
They have different ideas of God.。
They have been to different places and countries。
to spread the message of God.。
They have spread the message of God.。
Not only helping the local people,。
but also spreading the message of God to others.。
I would like to invite Mavis to share with us.。
Good morning everyone.。
My name is Mavis.。
I am currently a fourth year student in university,。
studying in Australia.。
Like many of you, I also grew up in this church.。
I just came back from a month-long trip。
in Nagoya, Japan last December.。
Have you ever heard of the word "missions"?。
For me, I first heard of "missions"。
from a vacation Bible study when I was younger.。
I always thought missionaries looked like this.。
They are blonde, kind, and courageous.。
They go to Africa to help kids who are hungry。
and in need of help.。
As a kid, I found these people very inspiring.。
I never really put much thought into it.。
I grew up in a Christian family.。
I went to church every Sunday.。
I thought being a Christian was just going to church。
every week, memorizing scripture, getting stickers,。
and generally being a kind person because。
love your neighbor as yourself and something like that.。
But I never really understood what I was claiming。
to believe in and why it is so important to myself.。
Before going to university, I was super shy。
and introverted.。
I probably still am.。
I did not know if I could make any friends,。
but God was really gracious to me.。
During my first year, a girl from my church。
invited me to a camp held by a Christian club。
on my campus.。
I did not know anyone but her, so I was hesitating。
if I should go or not.。
But I don't know what got into me,。
but I decided to go and take a step.。
At that camp, I met a lot of Christian uni students.。
Though they did not know me, they were really,。
really kind and welcoming and interested to chat.。
As I got a chance to hear their stories。
and their journeys with God, I saw how God。
has transformed them, and they were all super joyful。
and confident.。
But on the other hand, I look at myself。
and I only see what I could share was only。
I grew up in a Christian family, and I think I'm Christian.。
After that camp, I felt very convicted。
to learn more about Christianity.。
So I joined the Christian club and started my journey。
on being discipled by a missionary.。
We also did walk up, so it was like walking up。
to strangers every week to ask them about their faith。
and their background.。
Mind you, I was still very, very shy and did not know much。
about the Bible and theology and stuff like that.。
The first few times were super intimidating,。
and I got really, really tired afterwards.。
I probably still do get really tired after doing that.。
But after stepping out of my comfort zone,。
that was when I really experienced the power of God。
and the power of prayer.。
Before we go out to talk to strangers on campus, we pray.。
I usually feel super awkward because you don't really。
know how the conversation is going to go.。
But every time I go out, I am reminded that I cannot。
control other people's minds.。
I can't control how they think of me.。
So the only thing I could do was to rely on God and pray.。
So because of that, I got a chance to meet a lot。
of different people, and God surprises me every time。
in different conversations.。
So back to Japan.。
Random question for everyone.。
Has anyone here been to Japan?。
Okay, cool.。
So if so, or if not, what do you think when you think of Japan?。
For me, I think what I think about when I think about Japan。
is manga, anime, shrines, and food,。
and maybe cool technology.。
And missional work was definitely not on my list.。
So on the surface, Japan seems pretty cool, right?。
And very rich country.。
But you guys may know, Japanese culture and work culture。
is very, very stressful.。
There's also a term for death by overwork called "karoashi."。
And Japan being a very homogenous country,。
being different from society is seen as being。
disrespectful of peace.。
So there's a Japanese proverb that says,。
"deru koe wa utareru," which means,。
"The nail that sticks out is hammered down."。
So a little context about Japan.。
So the population in Japan is about 126 million people,。
and only 1 to 2%, as you can see over there,。
the red, are Christian.。
So being a Christian is definitely very, very difficult。
and very different from societal norms in Japan.。
The Christian population being really small in Japan,。
Japanese people have never met a Christian in their lives before.。
Some of them don't even know the meaning behind Christmas.。
So it reminded me of this verse in the Bible that says,。
"How then can they call on the one they have not believed in,。
and how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard,。
and how can they hear without someone preaching to them,。
and how can anyone preach unless they're sent?。
As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news."。
Many people think that going to mission means going to help people。
that are less fortunate or going to help people that are sick or in need.。
However, a missionary in Japan said this,。
"I cannot show you photos of hungry children, wells to be dug,。
and churches to be built, but I can show you building after building。
of people that do not know God."。
This really got to me.。
I think I was really fortunate to have been in a Christian family。
and had so many opportunities to hear about God's love for me growing up.。
However, in Japan, it is super rare to even find one Christian.。
That is why I went on this mission.。
So what does mission actually look like?。
I went with a group of 11 people,。
and we got on five different university campuses throughout our month there.。
Our main goal was to connect with new students that we meet on campus。
and journey alongside Christian students that are already connected with local staff.。
So we held events such as a Thanksgiving party--wait, where is it--。
a Thanksgiving party, a little girls' night--what else--。
a Christmas party, a Christmas English lesson,。
and also other things that they have over there.。
Every Friday they have a little fellowship.。
It was actually not really like work, work, but it's more like connecting with people。
and chatting with the students there.。
I want to end with a little story.。
During our farewell party, a Japanese Christian student named Tomoe。
shared a little bit of her testimony.。
She shared that she has always been a Christian,。
but found it really, really hard to say it publicly。
because of the fear of how people would react when they know she's a Christian.。
She shared that after meeting the team of Australian students。
and doing outreach together, it reminded her of this passage.。
"For I am not ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God。
that brings salvation to everyone who believes,。
first to Jews and then to the Gentiles."。
I'm not sure about you.。
Have you been ashamed of your faith?。
If so, I hope this passage encourages you.。
Please continue to pray for the ministry in Japan.。
People in Japan really need God.。
I just want to pray for--please pray for God to continue to send workers there。
and as the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few.。
This is the end. Thank you for listening.。
If you have any questions, we can have a chat and stuff after.。
Thanks, guys.。
Thank you, Mavis, for sharing a little bit of your experience.。
In Asia, traveling is a good thing.。
But in the case of the Catholic Church,。
Japan is a country of rocks.。
It needs a voice to reach this place.。
Mavis is one of our mentors.。
She is the daughter of Auntie Maggie.。
Those white-handed people are a bit loud.。
So I think when we become the second or third generation of Christians,。
we need to be grateful.。
Not everyone can keep this good faith.。
God, please continue to help us.。
Next, Cody will share with us.。
Cody didn't go to Asia to preach.。
He went to a place in Europe.。
He will introduce himself.。
Before I start, I want you to stand up.。
Then sit down.。
Are you tired?。
No? Never mind.。
I want to say that every time you do something,。
there is a price.。
I am a lazy person.。
If the action has no real meaning, I won't do it.。
If someone asked me to stand up, I wouldn't do it.。
I admire you all.。
Very good.。
I will explain why I went to Europe to serve God.。
The first picture is of my dad and me.。
My dad is my role model.。
He had cancer at that time.。
He couldn't eat well and sleep well.。
But he continued to read the Bible and preach.。
Isn't it tiring?。
Normal people would be tired.。
My mom was also tired.。
It's not easy to take care of a sick person.。
But when you see him serving at church,。
or when he is not feeling well,。
you still want to serve him.。
Why?。
I thought,。
what made my mom and dad serve God so diligently?。
It was because they saw God's power of transformation.。
God saved our family.。
But this is my parents' story.。
Even if I saw God's power,。
I didn't think it was related to me.。
I thought I would follow God for my whole life.。
God is the one I will follow for my whole life.。
But from my school,。
I went to a primary school and then went to a university.。
I didn't think about what I would do for God.。
I don't know what you think of doing something for God.。
But for me,。
doing something for God is a big deal.。
I was a little boy.。
I didn't have the ability to do anything for God.。
I just prayed.。
When I entered university,。
I thought I must do all the things I learned in university.。
I didn't have time to do anything else.。
But when I entered university,。
I still wanted to find a fellowship.。
There were a group of Catholics who were my peers.。
But by accident,。
I accidentally joined a student movement,。
Campus Crusade.。
The organization was amazing.。
It was an organization that encouraged young people to preach the gospel and serve God.。
It was the first time that someone could make people on this earth。
who had never heard the gospel。
believe in a statement that was very meaningful.。
I thought,。
"Why can I, as a family,。
experience such a transformative event?。
But what about others?"。
As the Roman Catholic priest, Mavis, said,。
"There is no chance to hear it."。
I started to think about what I could do.。
I saw that these students were my age.。
Why did people my age love God so much?。
How much did they love God?。
They loved the people God loved.。
After they had this love,。
as Pastor Irene said,。
this love had action.。
I followed them and slowly learned how to preach the gospel。
and how to care for others.。
But if you have ever tried to preach the gospel,。
you need to have a thick skin.。
You don't have to be embarrassed.。
Just like Mavis,。
she had to go to the front and preach.。
It was really embarrassing.。
But in the past few years,。
I started to train my skin to be a little thicker.。
When did I start training my skin?。
There were two countries.。
One was on the left.。
You can't guess where it was.。
It was Vietnam.。
I went to Vietnam with my students.。
When I was in the Explorer program,。
I had to go to Vietnam to preach.。
What was most impressive was not the need of the place.。
There was a person who was there.。
He was a 20-year-old student.。
He was serving in Vietnam.。
I looked at him and thought,。
"He is so young, but he is already serving God.。
Can I dedicate my youth to God in the future?"。
But I didn't tell anyone when I came back.。
Because you know,。
when you come back and tell anyone,。
they will push you to do something.。
I didn't tell anyone.。
But I still had an action.。
I bought a book called "Divorce"。
which is about the Sunday prayer of the Catholic Church.。
In addition to the article,。
there were prayers for different countries.。
I still thought that I could do something in the Explorer program.。
I could pray.。
The second country was Ireland.。
It was a green country.。
What made me most worried was。
that I went to an exchange program for half a year.。
I had a great time there for half a year.。
But behind the joy,。
I saw that many Europeans。
couldn't hear the prayer.。
We just said that the prayer of worship is the answer of God.。
But they only had many questions.。
The answer was right in front of them.。
They couldn't see the answer.。
So I felt very sad.。
It was like the people in this country。
really needed to find the answer.。
But guess what I did after that?。
After that deep pain?。
I prayed.。
I just prayed.。
But don't get me wrong.。
Prayer is the foundation of all ministries.。
The ministry of the Lord's Prayer needs to start with prayer.。
Or maybe God wants me to pray.。
Okay, let's go.。
At the end, I had to graduate from university.。
I went to a camp.。
I participated in the student movement.。
At the end of each year,。
there was a call for prayer.。
What is a call for prayer?。
It's an article.。
After the call, the callers would be invited to respond。
to the actions of the people of the camp.。
When I entered the camp,。
I thought, "It's okay. It's none of my business."。
I started to look for a job.。
I was a normal person who just returned from work.。
I was already content.。
But when I was in Fuzhou,。
I was asked,。
"If God wants you to serve Him in your whole life,。
will you respond to Him without hesitation?"。
This call was a negative response.。
It was a no-turning-back response.。
When I heard this question,。
I felt like I was being asked.。
If I didn't respond,。
I wouldn't be able to do it.。
At that moment, I knew very clearly。
that this was a call from God.。
So I responded to this call.。
I forgot to introduce this.。
I was in my first year of studying at the Catholic School of the Apostles.。
After I graduated,。
I would serve God as a pastor.。
A few days before I entered the school,。
I opened my Bible.。
It was filled with the words of my time.。
God encouraged me in this way.。
He was the God who called me.。
After I graduated,。
I returned to Ireland.。
I joined a police station called Operation Mobilization.。
It was a local church.。
Although it was a European country,。
there were few Catholics there.。
It was not very developed.。
There were many sheep and farmers.。
I found out that the church did more than I imagined.。
It was not just a weekly visit to the city.。
It was a weekly visit to the community.。
I would bring people to the church。
and find the answer in their conversations.。
But three years later,。
I still feel very sad.。
Why can't they hear the call of God?。
When I left, I had a big expectation.。
One day,。
Ireland would no longer need a Catholic church,。
or missionaries.。
On the surface of the earth,。
there would no longer be a need for missionaries.。
So I left the country with this expectation.。
But I knew that I had to serve God well.。
I had to dedicate my life to God.。
I had to be used by God.。
But to serve God well,。
I had to do one thing.。
I had to study.。
Why did I have to study?。
Because I had to learn about the equipment of the church.。
I had to know what I believed in.。
I heard a lot about the church,。
but I had to systematically learn everything.。
I had to know about the equipment,。
and I had to know that I had to follow my heart.。
You know,。
I want to say that。
there are so many things to learn about the church.。
If I didn't do more,。
how could I have learned so much?。
So I went to study.。
I had to be used by God in my life.。
Finally,。
I don't know if you have ever thought about。
whether the action I chose。
was in line with God's plan.。
But this is what the Philippians encouraged me to do.。
They said,。
"For you have made your decisions。
according to your own will。
in order to accomplish His will."。
We make decisions。
not because we think we are great,。
but because we want to accomplish God's will.。
What we have to do is to surrender,。
to surrender to God's will,。
and then act,。
and to show the way of life.。
So I have a hope for you,。
that you will use your youth well.。
You don't have to go on a mission.。
This place,。
this community,。
has many needs.。
Your family, your friends,。
have many needs.。
Can you devote your youth。
to God's use?。
And if you are willing,。
you can also trust and obey,。
to show the way of life.。
I will give the floor to Pastor Ari.。
Thank you, Cody.。
Thank you, Lord.。
Cody is now studying at the Bordeaux Synagogue.。
Studying the Bible is not just。
because I want to study the Bible.。
Studying the Bible requires。
some kind of evidence,。
and the call of God.。
Then you can read it.。
We have some practical students,。
if you really want to study the Bible,。
you can talk to them,。
why they suddenly want to study the Bible,。
and devote their youth to study it.。
After hearing them talk about。
the call of God and their story,。
I also want to tell you,。
behind KFCC,。
behind this care center,。
there is one very important thing,。
through the sisters who serve,。
including you,。
to spread the gospel,。
and the last step,。
is to establish the first。
church in Hong Kong.。
May God continue to help us,。
and may we serve the local people。
in a good way.。
I think today we have two witnesses,。
and it's almost time,。
we may not be able to sing the response song.。
So, Pastor Karen,。
please pray with us.。
Let's pray together.。
Dear God,。
when we talk about the transformation of life this year,。
can we live out of the outside world?。
It's a litmus test to see if our lives have changed.。
Dear God,。
I pray that you will help us.。
Actually, there are many opportunities。
around us.。
God, you didn't call us to go very far,。
but there are many people nearby。
who need you,。
and who need the response.。
God, I pray that you will remind us again。
how our lives have been touched by you.。
How much you love us,。
how you have saved us,。
how you have guided us.。
God, how can we bring this love。
from you to the people around us?。
God, we may have to pay a price。
to be with you.。
But God, when we think of you。
being born on the cross for us,。
shedding blood for us,。
so that we can share this love with you,。
we know in our hearts。
that all the costs are worth it.。
God, I pray that you give us courage。
and let us put down our fear。
to answer you,。
to respond to your call.。
God, let our lives。
not only be for ourselves,。
but also for you.。
May our lives be transformed by you,。
and may it be a life that honors you。
and also blesses others.。
God, I pray that you continue。
to lead us on the path ahead.。
Help us to live a life。
that is a blessing to millions of people.。
To respond to the grace of God。
in our lives.。
Let us pray together in the name of Jesus.。
May the grace of Jesus Christ,。
the love of God,。
the touch of the Holy Spirit。
be with us。
until the coming of Jesus Christ.。
Amen.。
