Good evening, everybody.。
Welcome those of you who are on Zoom and those who are on YouTube.。
And as you may know, I'm speaking to you from Thailand.。
And I was stuck here because of a travel ban.。
I'm your first Thai speaker, or speaker from Thailand, I guess.。
And it's great to be with you.。
And we thank you, Pastor John, last week, he started us off this great series on the。
seven I am's.。
And he introduced to us what the I am originally comes from.。
And it comes from the name of the Lord, Yahweh, from the Old Testament.。
And it is great to see also the connection from the Old Testament to the New Testament,。
where Jesus himself claims to be the I am.。
He says in chapter eight, verse 58, Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you,。
before Abraham was, I am.。
Before Abraham was, I am."。
And so we kick off this story, actually a couple chapters before in John chapter six.。
And it's the story of the feeding of the 5,000.。
Has anybody heard of the story of the feeding of the 5,000?。
It should be a very familiar story.。
And what happens is that Passover was actually right around the corner.。
And Jesus says to them, "Where should we have by bread to feed all these people?"。
And once again, they were in the city of Tiberias, near the Sea of Galilee.。
And Jesus says to them, "Where should we buy bread so that these people may eat?"。
He said this to test them, for he himself knew what he would do.。
And Philip answered him, "200 denarii worth of bread would not be enough to feed them,。
to get a little."。
A denarii was a person's daily wage at that time.。
And so obviously Jesus was testing his disciples.。
Passover was right around the corner.。
And he was questioning them, "Where should we buy bread?"。
And the scripture says to us that there was 5,000 men.。
And so probably it was almost double the amount of people that needed to be fed there.。
And Jesus performed a miracle.。
He prayed to heaven.。
And the Father fed them.。
And they had more than enough.。
And it says in the scripture that they gathered 12 basketfuls of bread and of fish that were。
left over.。
And the video made it very clear to us that afterwards Jesus isolated himself to the mountaintop。
because these people saw the miracle that Jesus performed.。
And they were about to crown him king.。
And so before they were able to do that, in order to not speed the coming of the crucifixion,。
Jesus fled.。
Jesus isolated himself.。
And the disciples got on their boats and they were waiting for Jesus on the boats.。
And then a storm came.。
It became very dark.。
And the winds picked up.。
And what happened was Jesus walked on water.。
And so when Jesus walked on water and arrived at their boat, what happened was that they。
went to another city, the other city, unto the other side of the Sea of Galilee.。
And so the next morning, as the video showed us, they were looking for Jesus.。
They couldn't find him.。
They couldn't find him in their town.。
And so they got on their boats and went to, through the Sea of Galilee, onto the other。
side.。
And this is where we see the passage.。
When they found him on the other side of the Sea, they said to him, "Rabbi, when did you。
come?"。
And Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly.。
I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill。
of the loaves.。
Do not work for food that perishes, but for food that endures to eternal life, which the。
Son of Man will give to you.。
For on him, God the Father has set his seal."。
And first thing that Jesus points out is that these people were seeking not after Jesus.。
They were seeking after the loaves of bread, which filled their bellies.。
These people were seeking a temporary physical satisfaction.。
And Jesus questions them and instead says, "Don't just look for food or bread that satisfies。
temporarily, but look for something spiritual that only I can satisfy, that leads to eternal。
life."。
And isn't it the same?。
That today, sometimes we seek after Jesus because he gives us the things that we want.。
We want Jesus because he can offer, even at this time, we are praying for healing in the。
midst of COVID.。
We are praying for protection, yes.。
But the question is, are we truly seeking after Jesus himself, not just what he can。
provide us?。
There's this song and it's called "More Than Anything" by Natalie Grant.。
Help me want the healer more than the healing.。
Help me want the savior more than the saving.。
Help me want the giver more than the giving.。
Help me want you, Jesus, more than anything.。
Jesus is claiming here that he is enough.。
It's not just about what he can give you, but that he himself is enough.。
And so the question we have to ask ourselves is, are we truly seeking Jesus?。
Are we truly seeking him and not just what he can provide us?。
Before being in Thailand, I was visiting my family who I haven't seen for two years.。
And Canada is really cold right now.。
It's like negative two or below zero.。
And I had a great time there just spending time with people at church.。
And I got really close to some of them and we would go work out or we would go snowboard。
every other day or something like that because Omnicom was pretty bad at that time and there。
wasn't that much to do, right?。
All you could do was go work out and go snowboard.。
But as soon as I left Canada and Toronto and I started continuing messaging some of these。
friends who I was really close to, they would ignore me.。
And I felt like, wow, as soon as I left Toronto, it's as if I can't snowboard with you or I。
can't work out with you anymore.。
So you don't even bother messaging me anymore.。
And this is sort of what Jesus was saying.。
You're only coming to me because I can provide you bread.。
I can provide you healing.。
I can provide you protection.。
But are you truly seeking after me?。
It's as if I left Toronto and my friends didn't care about me anymore because I couldn't snowboard。
with them or I couldn't work out with them anymore.。
That's sort of how I felt.。
So the question for you, for us today is, are we truly seeking Jesus?。
Not just after what he can give us.。
These people continue.。
And so they say to him, what must we do to be doing the works of God?。
You know, they're genuinely seeking Jesus.。
They want to genuinely seeking God.。
They genuinely want to know God.。
And Jesus answered them, this is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has。
sent.。
And so they said, then what sign do you do that we may see and believe you?。
What work do you perform?。
Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness as it is written.。
He gave them the bread from heaven to eat.。
And Jesus said to them, truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the。
bread from heaven, but my father who gives you the true bread from heaven.。
For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.。
Jesus is saying here that he is proven.。
He is proven.。
Now these people who were chasing after Jesus, they were caught in their own religious, religiosity,。
religiousness.。
They believed in their set ways of going to the father.。
And that was to them, the old covenant.。
They were trying to gain their salvation by works, right?。
Their question was, what must we be doing?。
What must we be, what must we do to be doing the works of God?。
They counted on their own works to save them.。
A lot like the Pharisees who have memorized the scriptures, who are living the high life.。
But Jesus is saying, what must you do?。
All you must do is believe in the one whom he has sent.。
And Jesus makes a very special claim here.。
That it is not Moses who gave you the bread, but it is my father.。
My father.。
And they would be saying, isn't this the son of Joseph?。
Jesus, the son of Joseph?。
What do you mean it's your father?。
Jesus is claiming that him and the father are one.。
God and him are working together.。
And it is he, the father, who sent him.。
Jesus is proven.。
Jesus is the new covenant.。
Jesus is greater than Moses because God sent the manna.。
It is not Moses who sent the manna.。
And so the second question we need to ask ourselves is, are we working for our own salvation?。
These people were caught up in the old covenant.。
These people were caught up in their own religious thoughts.。
Their religion was preventing them from accepting Jesus as their personal savior.。
And a lot of times we might be working for our own salvation.。
This is a picture of us doing good works.。
We were handing out lunch boxes before the fifth wave.。
You see Betty there and Carmen and one of our tightest kids.。
We were handing out food.。
And a lot of the times, even as us Christians today, we may feel like we need to do more。
so that we could be gaining our own salvation.。
And I've shared this many times because I'm a doer.。
A lot of the times I feel like, oh, the more I do, the more God would love me.。
And that's not true because our salvation comes through our faith in Jesus Christ.。
And so the second question we need to ask ourselves is, are we working for our salvation。
instead of placing our faith wholeheartedly in who Jesus is?。
And the last thing we want to look at, they said, sir, give us this bread always.。
They were interested.。
They want this bread, right?。
That would lead to eternal life.。
And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life.。
Whoever comes to me shall not hunger.。
Whoever believes in me shall not thirst.。
That I say to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe.。
All that the father gives will come to me and whoever comes to me, I will never cast。
out.。
Jesus is saying here that he alone saves.。
He is proven.。
He is enough.。
He is the bread of life that saves.。
Whoever believes in him, he promises several things in these scriptures.。
You shall never hunger again.。
And that doesn't mean physically we won't hunger.。
I still eat like a growing teenager, right?。
I still order several meals.。
He's saying that we who receive Jesus Christ will be satisfied spiritually because he is。
enough.。
He believes, he promises that we shall not thirst.。
He will satisfy the deepest conscious of our thirst.。
That as the father sends us to Jesus, we will never be cast out.。
That we will have eternal life.。
And when he returns on the last day, we will be raised with Christ.。
We are a new creation because we have been baptized with Christ.。
We will be saved when we confess with our mouth and believe in our heart that Jesus。
Christ died and rose again.。
And so once again, Jesus is making his claim here.。
That he is the bread of life.。
He is enough.。
He is proven.。
We don't have to go look for anything else or anyone else.。
He himself is proven.。
He and the father are one.。
The father sent him so that he could save us.。
And so Jesus is the bread of life.。
He is authentic.。
He is sufficient.。
And he is constantly supplying us with the strength we need to go through these tough。
times.。
Jesus alone saves.。
And so there are several questions we need to reflect on as we listen on this message。
of the bread of life.。
The first is, are we truly seeking after Jesus?。
Yes, we need to pray to Jesus for protection for our loved one.。
Yes, we need to pray to Jesus for healing in the midst of COVID.。
We need to pray for Jesus to give us mercy.。
Yes, he can provide all those things because he is all powerful.。
He can feed the 5,000.。
He can calm the storm.。
He can walk on water.。
But Jesus' questions, are we truly seeking after him or just what he can provide?。
Today, as we go in our quiet times, are we truly seeking after Jesus?。
It's so easy for us to just get caught up in the world and neglect Jesus himself.。
Are we truly seeking Jesus?。
And the second thing is, for those who are saved as well, are we working for our salvation?。
Instead of placing our faith, our belief fully on him.。
We can gain the whole world.。
We can gain all the money in the world.。
But we will not be able to go to heaven because that is not the key to heaven.。
Jesus is the key to heaven.。
He is the bread of life.。
Only he can save us.。
And lastly, have you been saved?。
Have you been saved?。
Have you prayed and asked Jesus Christ to be the Lord and Savior of your life?。
Have you received the bread of life?。
Back to the story of the feeding of the 5,000.。
It was around Passover.。
Passover was remembering when God saved Israel from the Egyptians, from Pharaoh.。
And what happened was the angel of death was going to come.。
And Jesus and God said, if you paint your door as a sign that the blood has been shed。
and you paint your door, the angel of death will cross over, will pass over, and you will。
be saved and you will be spared.。
And Jesus said to these people as they were thinking about Passover, where will we buy。
bread and what does it cost?。
And Jesus probably when he was speaking this, he himself knew that the cost would be himself。
on the cross.。
The lamb that was shed, the blood that had to be painted on our doors, he himself is。
the one that saves us.。
He took the punishment on the cross.。
And so I want to invite you today, maybe you've come on this service for the first time or。
maybe it's the hundredth time, but you haven't asked Jesus into your life to be your Lord。
and Savior.。
Would you come to the altar of the Lord and receive him now?。
I'm going to say a prayer and it's going to ask Jesus into your life.。
It's going to ask Jesus to help you to become who he has made you to be.。
And it's also a prayer that will confess Jesus as the Lord and Savior, the bread of life,。
who died and rose again for our sins.。
If you would like to pray this prayer, close your eyes and let's pray this prayer together.。
And then we will respond with the song, Come to the Altar.。
Repeat after me.。
Dear Heavenly Father, I thank you for Jesus Christ.。
I thank you that he is the bread of life.。
I thank you that Jesus is proven enough and that he saves.。
And that on the third day, he rose again to conquer death.。
I now invite Jesus to come into my life, to be my source of bread, living bread, the bread。
of life.。
Wash me of my sins and make me the person you want me to be.。
In Jesus' name I pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
