Hello everybody, welcome to church!。
(singing)。
I have one and I can't read.。
Okay.。
Hello everyone.。
It's good to see you all and it's a joy to be able to bring the Word of God to you。
in your home. I hope that you're safe and healthy, you have enough masks,。
you have enough toilet roll and hand gel and you're just。
keeping your spirits up during this crazy, crazy time.。
So the Word of God that we're going to be going through is。
the title "I am Victorious" and in these next two weeks I'm going to be。
finishing off this series from Ephesians by talking about this idea of。
that we are victors in Christ. It's going to be split into two parts,。
this Saturday and next Saturday, so hopefully you'll be able to join us in。
some shape or form over these next two weeks. So the first。
part is this and I just want to just, as we come to the finale of this。
series and admittedly it's been so broken。
with everything that's been happening, but we've been going through Ephesians。
and we've been talking about this idea of identity, how。
through this book Paul lays down some key identities that we have as we become。
Christians, as we become children of God and we are saints and we are blessed, we。
are appreciated, we are heard, we are saved, we are。
loved, we are rewarded. Now we come to the finale which is。
we are victorious, you are victorious and what does that really mean is that's。
what we're going to be looking into because。
when you think about the word victory it means that you're winning and。
you know especially right now it doesn't feel like we're winning.。
There's a virus that is still to be defeated,。
there are things that are going on in all of our lives where we don't feel。
like we're in control, let alone winning and ahead of so。
it's an interesting topic and what's even more interesting is。
where this is placed in the scripture. If you look at Ephesians chapter 6。
it talks about the whole armour of God, this is what we're going to be going。
through the next two weeks, the whole armour of God, but if you see。
just how it goes, he starts from the beginning and he's talking about。
the spiritual blessings that we all have, you have everything you need already,。
that you have been saved by grace through faith。
and then it's talking about how we will have spiritual strength。
and that we will be unified as the body of Christ and then he starts talking。
about some of the kind of life values or。
standards that we need to uphold in the way that we live, that we need to walk in。
love, Ephesians chapter 5 and then it goes。
into how that seeps into our relationships, so your wives and husbands。
and children and parents and masters and。
servants, how we all need to walk in love and。
display that love in our relationships and then he finishes here。
in Ephesians chapter 6 talking about the whole armour of God。
and so what he's done here is he's told you who you are, he's told you what you。
need to do and just before he leaves he says。
right you know everything you need to know now。
but there's one thing you need to really be aware of before I leave,。
it'll be wrong for me to not tell you this bit and which is this, that。
you're going to have to live out your identity, you're going to have to live out。
your standards and the values of the。
kingdom of God, not on a playground but in a battleground,。
that this isn't going to be easy, whoever thought that this was going to。
be an easy life, this won't be, this won't be all fun and。
games but rather this will be a battleground,。
that is why you need to put on the armour of God, that is why you。
finally, verse 10, finally be strong in the Lord and put on the whole armour of。
God. So we're going to today, we're going to。
unpack what it means to be in battle, we're going to have a think about what。
the enemy looks like and finally we're going to look about。
what the victory looks like, the battle, the enemy,。
the victory. Next week we're going to be talking about。
the different pieces, different parts of the whole armour of God。
and how each of them play a part in the way that we live right now.。
So if you join me, let's just go to Ephesians chapter 6,。
verse 10 to 13, let me read it to you first, finally be strong in the Lord and。
in the strength of his might, put on the whole armour of God that you。
may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil,。
for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood but against the rulers, against the。
authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness,。
against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.。
Therefore take up the whole armour of God that you may be able to withstand in。
the evil day and having done all to stand firm.。
This is the word of the Lord. So when we're talking about。
this passage here, we're talking about what Paul is trying to teach。
the church in Ephesus here, he's really saying, look there is going to be。
a battle, finally, as if this is one of the most important things, finally be。
strong in the Lord and the strength of his might, put on the。
whole armour of God and stand against the schemes of the devil.。
You are going to be up and faced with a big fight, so put on the。
whole armour of God and be strong in the Lord and this battle。
that we're facing, you know, actually you don't have to tell people living in。
Hong Kong that life is a battle, this year has been absolutely mad and it。
feels like a battle, it feels like Hong Kong is clinging。
for its life. And then I was thinking a bit more about this because in some ways。
we've only been here for just over a year, I feel as though。
this is the Hong Kong we've ever known, or this is all we've known,。
just battle, we have the protests from June to。
December and then January the virus took over and it's just been constantly。
battling, every day has been a grind. But then I was thinking actually,。
no, you know, the battle has been going on long before。
this year, in fact the battle for souls has been going on from the。
moment Adam and Eve were around, when the serpent。
deceived Eve, this battle has been going on for a long time, Peter。
talks about the enemy that is on the prowl, waiting。
to pounce and it makes me think, sometimes even this year I'm thinking,。
you know what, now more than ever we really need the。
gospel, the truth of Christ. And I was thinking, no,。
actually we've all, our need for Jesus and our need for。
the gospel has been the same from the beginning。
of our lives. It's only now, especially this year, especially in Hong Kong,。
it's just a bit more pronounced, we're aware of our shortcomings,。
everything that has happened has now brought all our emotions, all our。
insecurities and our pride and our fears, all up to the surface. But what our。
prayer is, is that whilst these things have come up,。
that we will be able to cling on to Christ, that we will be able to be。
strong in the Lord and put on the whole armour of God, so we can face this battle。
together. A battle it is, but hopefully we can keep。
our eyes on the victory. You see, it makes me think,。
yes there is a battle and the sooner we come to terms with that, the better.。
That actually the moment we even declare ourselves to be Christian,。
at that moment we are taking a stand against the enemy. We are saying we have。
found out our identity and we are holding on to it. Our identity。
is in the one who defeated you, the enemy. And so to be a Christian is to。
engage in spiritual warfare. So it's not to shy away from it, because。
I think sometimes we're guilty of kind of, you know, you hear about the。
American dream, sometimes we're guilty of pursuing the Christian dream, which is。
oh if I believe in God, things are going to get better for me, things are going to。
get much smoother, God is going to bless me,。
he's going to give me health, he's going to give me wealth, he's going to give me。
a family, he's going to give me the job that I've always wanted, and then I'm。
just smooth sailing. But that isn't really what the gospel。
teaches. In fact our Lord Jesus did not seem to live the Christian。
dream, at least not when he came into this world.。
And so for us, we need to kind of recalibrate our minds of what we think。
this life is. And Jesus already told us, he said, "In this world you will have。
trouble. The moment you declare that you belong。
to God, the enemy is going to come and try and。
attack you and bring you down with lies, with circumstances, whatever he。
can." And sometimes we look at the problems。
that we have in society and we're trying to fix these problems with。
earthly solutions. So we look at some of the things that are going on。
outside right now, we're thinking okay well that is because of。
something that happened here on this earth and we need to try and fix it by。
doing this, that or the other. And we're not recognising。
that a lot of the problems that we're facing are rooted。
deep into our souls. And the brokenness isn't just on the surface but it's also。
very much in our hearts. So for us we need to recognise that because in verse。
12, that's what he's talking about, "For we。
don't wrestle against flesh and blood but against the rulers, against the。
authorities, against the cosmic powers of this present darkness."。
Our first step into winning this battle is to recognise that it is a battle,。
that there is a battle going on for souls right now,。
even before the protest movement and long after the virus。
disappears, there will still be an ongoing battle for souls.。
And we as believers need to be aware of that, we need to be awake。
and we need to know that God is on the move as well.。
See, the moment we believe in Christ we recognise that there is a victory,。
right? You're a Christian because you put your hope in the fact that Christ。
died, he rose again, defeated death and that he。
will come again and there will be an ultimate victory.。
But if there is going to be an ultimate victory there also has to be an。
inevitable battle. And this is where we're at right now.。
The struggle that we have that Paul talks about in the beginning of verse 12,。
what we struggle against, the wrestling match that we have which is face to face。
is right in our faces, this is the inevitable battle that will。
lead to the ultimate victory. So let us not be too sad, let us not be。
too shocked that bad things are happening in this world。
because it was always part of the journey that we're on, ultimately。
leading to victory with Christ. So that's the first one,。
battle. Now the second one is this, the enemy. In verse 12 it says this,。
"For we do not wrestle against the flesh and the blood and the rulers and the。
authorities, the cosmic powers of the present。
darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places." What Paul's。
doing here is pointing us to a much bigger picture,。
that we're not just dealing with each other, you know actually this last year。
what we've seen is people turning against people, family turning on。
themselves, church people turning against themselves,。
we're getting all these arguments, people blaming each other and lashing out each。
other. But what Paul's saying is don't do that。
because our battle, our wrestling match, our struggle is not。
against flesh and blood, it's not against the things that we can see。
but it's against the things that we can't. The forces of darkness that are。
driving behind it, the ones that we can't see。
and that is a powerful, powerful force. And of course I think for us Chinese。
people it's almost easy to understand that because。
culturally we're a superstitious culture so we know that there are evil forces。
in action and that's why we have all these superstitions to try and。
keep them happy, to not make them angry. So we know that there is an。
existence of evil, that demons exist, that there is an enemy,。
there is the devil. But for us it's how can we have once。
again a healthy outlook, a balanced。
outlook on the enemy, to not be so scared that we think。
everything that's happening is because of him, that actually we。
recognize that inside our own hearts that we have the capacity to do evil,。
that actually I don't need any help to set myself on a path of。
self-destruction, I can do that myself, thank you very much.。
But rather the enemy doesn't have a control of us to force us to do things。
but rather he simply presents as it was some of the sinful desires that we。
already have and recognizing the level of power that。
this enemy has. And C.S. Lewis talks about it in this way,。
he says it's important to understand that they are equal and。
unhealthy opposites when it comes to talking about Satan,。
opposite errors if you will. One is that you don't believe in him at all。
and the other is that you have an unhealthy and exaggerated。
interest in him. Because the truth is the enemy is not omnipotent,。
so he's not everywhere at the same time, so he doesn't control。
everything. But what he does do is try his best to feed lies into our。
minds, to cause us to trip up on the things。
that we in some ways our human nature wants us to do anyway. Except for us it's。
about not getting, not allowing him to get a。
foothold on us, to recognize that he is powerful but he is also vulnerable.。
And that we worship him, we are loved by a God who is。
all-powerful and all-loving. And that he has already。
defeated the enemy. The victory is on its way, it's simply just。
a matter of time and it's down to us to be ready and to。
be up for this battle for now. And it's a wrestle,。
that imagery there is that it's close up, this isn't something you see。
from very far away, this is really in your face. When you're wrestling。
there's a struggle, there's resistance that's coming at you。
and the whole point of this wrestle is, at least for me, is。
through this battle, through this struggle, I know I will get stronger.。
I know that as I find out more about God, I find out more about myself and I find。
out more ways about how the enemy can't touch。
me and he can't harm me. So this battle, whilst we should be very。
much aware of the enemy, we should also not be afraid. Because。
finally there is the victory. The verse 13 says this,。
"Therefore take up the whole armour of God,。
that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all。
to stand firm." Having done all to stand firm.。
You know, when we're talking about a battle, one of the most。
famous films from the last couple years is Avengers,。
Endgame, there's this epic final battle at the very end and of course。
Thanos comes with his whole gang and then。
the Avengers, they assemble and they start fighting.。
And there's this moment where, if I remember correctly,。
it's not fully accurate, but it's the Avengers are starting to struggle. During。
the battle things are getting hard, the enemy is coming at them even harder,。
and things are getting a bit more discouraging, it looks like defeat might。
be on its way. And then you have this extra powerful。
superhero in Captain Marvel who comes, who almost just buoys everyone, just lifts。
everyone's spirits, because they know that, wow, she's here。
and she is powerful and she can help them.。
And I've just tried to imagine the battle that we're facing and。
trust me, I think life, and no doubt it's the same for you,。
life at the moment sometimes feels like a real, just a real fight where I'm just。
on my knees and I'm just clinging on, trying to stand firm. And this battle。
against the enemy sometimes feels too hard,。
especially when we try and take things into our own hands, when we try and。
defeat this enemy through our own common sense, our own ability, our own wisdom,。
and we realize, oh, we're maybe not as powerful as we thought, but the enemy is。
more powerful than us. And we're on our knees and I just had。
this image that actually Jesus comes up to us and just。
whispers to us in the most subtle of ways saying, "Get back up,。
the victory is coming, it's on its way." And just don't be, don't lose heart,。
take heart, in this world you will have trouble,。
take heart for I have overcome the world, just hang on there,。
stand firm, having done all, stand firm, and take up the whole armour of God.。
And even though I'm going to be going through the specific parts of the whole。
armour of God next week, I wanted just to finish off by sharing。
some of the things that pop up in my mind when Paul writes this in。
verse 13, "take up the whole armour of God." And for me,。
it really, there's two things that really pop up.。
One is that we have to be ready and the other is。
we have to be obedient. So the first one first, we have to be ready.。
The whole point of putting on armour is you put it on before the battle. You。
don't end up in a battlefield where people are。
slinging shots at you and trying to attack you, you。
don't walk in there without the armour and say, "Pause,。
I can see this is a battle, let me pop back into the changing room,。
slip into something more appropriate and I'll come back out and we'll carry on。
fighting." No, the whole point of this imagery of being a battle and。
wearing the whole armour of God is that you do it beforehand.。
Just like these days as we're going out, before we go out we put on the masks。
to protect ourselves. And if only we would。
protect and prepare our souls and our whole beings as well as we are。
in trying to protect ourselves from the virus. And actually maybe。
if only we would be so committed to protecting our bodies and maintaining。
healthy lifestyles and balanced diets as much as we are trying to protect from。
this virus that will pass. And this idea of we have to be prepared,。
we have to be ready. Growing up in school, in the school。
changing rooms, I used to see just a post that was up。
there when I was about 15 years old and just says,。
"Fail to prepare and prepare to fail. Fail to prepare and prepare to fail."。
This idea of we have to be prepared, we have to be ready. The whole point of。
putting on the armour is that you do it beforehand and that。
you do it on a daily basis, that you pick up your armour and you protect yourself。
on a daily basis. And we'll go through next week what each part of the。
whole armour of God does. But that for me is the first one. That the victory is。
already confirmed, we just have to be ready. See I was。
flying recently and of course everything happening,。
a lot of the flights are cancelled. So they're cancelled or delayed or changing because。
borders are shutting and whatnot. And so when I finally saw。
on my screen, "Your flight is confirmed." That brought me relief. I'm finally going。
home. I can see that my flight has finally。
been confirmed. The one that was before was cancelled,。
but now this one is confirmed. And that's great in some ways, that's just exactly。
like the victory that is already confirmed by Christ. It's already done.。
But even though I received the email saying that the flight was confirmed,。
I still had to get ready. I still had to make sure I had packed everything I。
needed. I still had to make sure that I had my。
passport, that I had everything I need to check in. I still need to make sure。
that I get myself to the airport on time so I can catch that flight.。
So even though the flight is confirmed, there's still lots of things that I can。
do to make sure that I am ready. And in some ways it's the same. We know。
that there is a battle. We know there's a battle because we。
believe in the victory that is coming at the end, and the one that's already。
happened 2,000 years ago. So for us, if we know the victory is。
confirmed, our job is to be ready, is to be prepared, to protect。
ourselves, to continue to guard our hearts and guard。
our minds. And recognising that the battle has。
already been won, but it's our job to also, second point, be obedient. So we have。
to be ready and also be obedient. Because you know。
here, the passage says, "Put on the whole armour of God." Not just put on。
your armour, not just put on your own armour, not put on James's armour,。
but to put on the whole armour of God. You see, the moment you put on the armour。
of God, the moment you put, and a soldier puts on any armour,。
they identify with that army. And so when Paul says, "Put on the whole。
armour of God," it's basically saying, you identify yourself as a warrior and as a。
soldier and as a child of God. And what that means。
is if you are part of his army, then you also do as he says.。
And recognising that this is not our fight, that we can't think of what is the。
best way to defeat the enemy, God knows. Our job as his soldiers, our job as we。
put on his armour is to be obedient. Imagine if soldiers。
would question the instructions from their sergeants and their lieutenants.。
That wouldn't work right. Our job is to put on the armour。
and be ready and be obedient to God because we know that his thoughts。
and his ways are so much higher than ours. I came across a quote recently。
by Alexander the Great and he said this, "I'm not afraid。
of an army of lions led by a sheep. I'm afraid。
of an army of sheep led by a lion. I'm not afraid of an army of lions led by a。
sheep. I'm afraid of an army of sheep led by a lion."。
And we are that army of sheep. We are following。
the Good Shepherd. We are following Christ, the Lion and the Lamb.。
We are following him and we know that if we follow him,。
go back to verse 10, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his mind.。
If we follow him, if we are ready for him, if we are prepared,。
if we are obedient, if we stick to him, then the victory。
that is his will be the victory that is ours.。
And so therefore, having done all, stand firm.。
See this is interesting because when we think about warfare, we maybe think。
about more contemporary warfare, about getting behind enemy lines,。
about being on the attack, about invading their bases, whether that's。
in contemporary warfare that we see on the news or maybe in just。
contemporary gaming that we see. It's all about attacking and invading that place.。
But here, this is interesting because if you。
look at these verses here, the word 'stand' comes up an awful lot.。
And it's interesting because it's not attack, it's not run, it's not invade,。
it's just stand. It's saying here, withstand the schemes of the enemy.。
It's saying, take your stand. It almost comes from a。
place where it's simply just, you just have to defend。
what you already have. You see I think that's interesting because what it's。
saying here, if you take it in the context of whole。
of Ephesians, our identity is already there, our salvation is。
already set. The kingdom of God has already won.。
Our leader, our commander has already put death to death through death.。
And so what the enemy is trying to do is to break that down.。
But we already have it, we are in a place of security,。
of victory and all we have to do is stand.。
Is to stand firm, to withstand the assault because our identity has already。
been secured, our salvation is already ours. And we can。
stand because of who stands with us. That we can。
withstand the forces of evil because Christ himself。
came down to earth and withstood all the forces of evil. He absorbed。
all the darknesses and the consequences of our sin。
on our behalf and he put them all to death and he withstood them all and he。
stood and he remains Lord of all and that is why we have the courage to。
also do the same. So finally be strong in the Lord in the。
strength of his might so that you may be able to withstand in。
the evil day having done all to stand firm. So that's I am。
victorious part one, that there is a basket that was。
happening long before this year, it's obviously happening now and it。
will happen after the crisis that is in Hong Kong。
passes as well. The battle for souls remains, it is here.。
The battle for your soul remains and it is a battle and it's a struggle and a。
wrestle. That's why we do it together, that's why。
we stick to Christ. The battle against the enemy。
who we can't see, who is more powerful than us.。
Who often points us to some of the darkest places within our own hearts。
but remembering that he has no control over us.。
We need to resist him, we need to not let him have a foothold。
on our lives but from there we need to stand firm。
and be confident because finally the victory is。
already ours. The victory is confirmed, we just have to be ready, prepared。
and obedient to follow our commander. Brothers and sisters, I certainly miss。
all of you very dearly and I pray that this week as you。
head into the battle again, as you don the masks。
and the hand gel and that you would also put on the whole。
armour of God, knowing that the moment you put it on。
you are ready, you are strong, you are protected and that he is for you。
and none can be against. Bless you.。
