Hello everyone, good to see you all. Very, very good to see you. Hey, this is my first。
time sharing over Zoom like this as well. I think one of the things I would really look。
forward to is to be able to actually share and actually see faces rather than preaching。
into a camera or an empty hall. Now I get to see Vincent's good looking face. I only。
wish I got to see him on his sofa, but this is good enough for me. Hey Vincent, hey everyone,。
it's really good to see you all. I'm trying to try and resist the temptation to keep sliding。
through all the screens to see who's paying attention or who's not, but I want to try。
and resist that. Hey, we're going to go through Judges and it's a strange book. It's a strange。
book and I shared this last time. It's full of these pretty moronic people who God uses。
to somehow lead and deliver the Israelites. We've had some of the big names. We've had。
Deborah, we've had Gideon, Mark. Thank you so much for your sharing. It's so good to。
be able to hear from other people in our church and that's been a real encouragement to me。
and to the Pastoral team as well. We've been going through all these different Judges and。
now we come across one who maybe we haven't heard that much of and because there's a reason。
for it. He is a real idiot. He is just one stupid man. In fact, as we look through the。
Judges chapter 9, we'll see that there really isn't much that we can learn from him. If。
anything, we have to only learn from what he does and make sure that we don't do it。
and that is it. This guy is called Abimelech. If you want to turn with me to Judges chapter。
9, it's a very long chapter. There's 57 verses, so don't worry, I'm not going to troll us。
through all of this just because we have an unlimited Zoom account. What I do want to。
do is as we share this story is really ask God to really speak to us and see how we can。
apply it right now. So we've had Ahab, we've had Deborah, we've had Gideon and now we have。
Gideon's son. Gideon actually is one of the more famous Judges, I would say, and he's。
an interesting one, right, because he really lacked confidence and then God really assured。
him and really came through him and then God used this person who wasn't the most confident。
to end up really delivering the Israelites from the Midianites in some of these great。
battles that we've heard in the last few weeks. And Gideon himself was, most would say, a。
humble kind of guy. But then it is interesting because in some ways it is a false sense of。
humility that we see. In Judges chapter 8, before we're introduced to Gideon's son Abimelech,。
Gideon wins this big battle. He comes back and the Israelites are like, "We want you。
to be our king. Seriously, we want you to rule over us, Great Gideon." And Gideon's。
like, "Oh, no, no, no, I don't want to rule over you. But what I do want you to do is。
give me all your gold and I'm going to make a jacket out of it and it's going to look。
pretty cool. I want to act like a king, but I don't want the responsibilities." In some。
ways, yes, it's humility, but it's probably a false sense of humility. And we sense that。
even more in how he names his son. His son Abimelech means, "My father is king." So。
even though Gideon turned down kingship for the Israelites in some subtle, stealth kind。
of way, he still slips it in there that his son's father himself is king. And that false。
humility, almost that false sense of identity and where he's getting his validation from。
seeps into the next generation, seeps into what his son then does. And see, Abimelech。
is his son, but he's only really one of 71. Abimelech has 70 brothers and Abimelech is。
really just a bad egg. And I want to tell you a little bit about him. I'm going to run。
through the story about Abimelech from the moment he tries to become king to unfortunately。
the moment he dies. This is disclaimer. If you don't know about Abimelech, unfortunately,。
this is not breaking bad. This is not going from bad to being a good. There is no good。
ending to this story. It's a bad ending. Okay. So just putting that one out there. And it。
starts off with Abimelech, one of 71 sons, actually his mother was Gideon's slave. So。
you could say that he was an illegitimate one. Illegitimate. So he goes to his mom's。
town. And then from there, he goes to find his mom and all her friends and all her family.。
And what does he do? He starts fundraising. He starts going to all these people who know。
him and know his mom and say, Hey, look, do you really want to be ruled by these 70 guys?。
Is it even possible to be ruled by 70? Isn't it much more efficient if you just get ruled。
by me? If you are just ruled by me, how about you guys make me king? Seriously, I would。
be so much better. So clearly Abimelech is good with his words. He's know what he's doing.。
He's manipulative. He's scheming. He's ambitious. And so he goes to these people, he fundraise。
and what do they do? They give him money. People of Shechem there. Shechem is a Canaanite。
town actually. Remember, the Israelites were supposed to go into Canaan and drive everyone。
out. They did not. So then you have all these Canaanites and all these different groups。
of people living within this promised land. And so Shechem was a town that was full of。
Canaanite people and they did worship other gods. And when they heard about Abimelech's。
fundraising speech, they were like, yeah, sure. We'll have you rule over us. We'll give。
you your money. So he gets all this money and what does he do with it? He then in 9。
verse 4 says he goes out and he recruits worthless and reckless fellows. So what he does is he。
goes out with 70 pieces of silver, verse 4, and he hires worthless and reckless fellows。
who then follow him. Him with this band of gangsters then take all the brothers, round。
up all the 70 brothers, take them onto one stone and they kill them all apart from one.。
One guy manages to escape and his name is Jotham. Verse 5 says Jotham manages to escape.。
Abimelech having killed all his brothers and basically all the competition assumes the。
role of king in this small town of Shechem. It's not the whole of Israel. It's not the。
whole of Canaan. It's just a small town. He seems quite happy with himself. He has declared。
himself king. From there, Jotham, the brother that escapes, he hears about this and he comes。
back out and he tells this parable. He tells this parable to the people of Shechem and。
it's a parable about trees. We won't go into this today but what he's really saying is。
this. The story is, he's like, people of Shechem, have a serious think about what you're doing。
here as you make this person your king. You need to ask yourselves, are you doing this。
with the right intentions? Are you picking someone who is a good leader? Remember what。
my dad Gideon did for you all. How God and Gideon delivered all of us. Do you really。
want to act in such bad faith to appoint this guy to be your king? Have a think about this.。
Seriously, have a think. If you really think he's the right one, well then you've made。
your choice and you will go with it. He gives this little speech, this parable and then。
he goes into hiding. He goes into hiding for three years. Three years in hiding, all the。
while hearing that this half brother of his is now ruling over his town. You see, what。
God is doing, God is allowing time to pass. It's interesting because we're often asking,。
I don't know about you, we're looking around the world now and we're looking at the leaders。
that we have in this world and we're thinking, oh my goodness, what is happening here? What。
is happening here? Why is God allowing these people to be appointed as leaders? No country。
is being named right here, right now, but what is God doing? And then what we see then。
is that actually God is above it all and actually he allows certain things to happen for his。
reason and imagine feeling how Jotham felt at that moment. He's given this parable, he。
knows he's right because he knows Abimelech is in the wrong, yet God still chooses to。
wait three years. But after that, the divine retribution kicks in. Verse 24 is when God。
says after the three years, he then starts his plan of removing Abimelech. And right。
at the end of chapter nine, right at the very, very end, verse 57, "And God also made all。
the evil of the men of Shechem return on their heads and upon them came the curse of Jotham,。
the son of Jeroboam." Jeroboam being Gideon. And so we see here, God is in complete control,。
even when there are bad leaders. And this is where we almost have to remind ourselves。
of this, to have faith in God's sovereignty, that he is in complete control. Even when。
we see there are certain people in this world that have been allowed to be leaders of very。
important countries, yet somehow God is still in control. And you see what happens after。
this is, how does God start this process of removing Abimelech? You carry on into chapter。
nine, verse 22 onwards is the downfall of Abimelech. What happens is God sends an evil。
spirit, allows an evil spirit to basically place a wedge between Abimelech and the people。
of Shechem. So the very people that gave Abimelech money because of an evil spirit now turn against。
him. They're like, "You know what? We don't really want him anymore. It's been three years,。
we're done with him." So what do they do? They then go and try and find another guy。
to dethrone him. And this guy is, verse 26, they find Gael. Unfortunately, he fails. He。
fails. Abimelech knows what's happening and ends up ambushing him and basically running。
him out of town. At this point, Abimelech is angry. These are the people that gave him。
money and supported him and made him king and they've turned against him. So what happens。
here is he then starts to kill these people. So he goes into his own town and basically。
starts to destroy the city. And all the people, they try and find refuge in this tower. They。
try and find refuge in this tower. They all run up into this tower, a thousand of them,。
to try and run away from Abimelech and to protect themselves. Abimelech ends up basically。
setting fire to the whole tower, causing the whole thing to be destroyed and all the people。
inside to be killed. So Abimelech now is on some kind of power trip. He's angry that he's。
been betrayed and then he goes and destroys his own town. The town that he was supposed。
to be king of, he has completely destroyed. Not only that, something in him switched where。
before he was happy to rule just this small town for three years. After destroying his。
own town, he decides, that's it. I'm going to go and try and capture other towns. So。
he then moves into a neighboring town, Bebez, to try and capture that one. And this is unprecedented。
for him. Remember before he was happy just to rule his own little thing. So then because。
of that pride, because of that anger, he then goes into another town and he tries to capture。
that one. Again, he basically runs all the residents in that town up into their tower.。
And what's he thinking? Look, that's a stupid idea guys. I just destroyed a thousand people。
in a tower in my own town. I'm going to do the same with you guys. I'm going to set you。
guys all on fire and you'll be done. But what he doesn't know is his pride ends up leading。
to his destruction because in that tower, one woman drops a really big heavy stone,。
a millstone, drops it down from the top of the tower and it so happens to hit Abimelech。
in the head and crushes his skull. But he doesn't quite die immediately. He knows that。
he's just had a millstone being crushed, dropped by a woman onto his head and he knows he's。
about to die. But then he goes to a soldier next to him and says, "Hey, draw your sword。
and you kill me because I don't want to be that guy that gets known to be killed by a。
woman." So then you can see still that pride that existed in Abimelech even to the very。
last breath. And that is the story of Abimelech. That's it. And you're just thinking, "Oh my。
goodness, why is this in the scriptures? This is just the most terrible story. There is。
not a single verse here that really is edifying or glorifying in any way. What is going on。
here?" And I thought that today as I'm sharing this passage to you over Zoom, I'm just thinking,。
you know what Abimelech did? He just gave us a crash course on bad leadership 101. Bad。
leadership 101. And of course, I think there are people in this world, current world leaders。
who could probably do the same for us right now. But Abimelech here is the one in the。
scriptures who's doing this for us. And I'm wanting to share a couple of points that I've。
observed about being a bad leader that Abimelech was and seeing how that can apply into our。
lives. And the first thing is this, Abimelech was power hungry. Power hungry. You see, he。
was one of 71 boys and he decided that he wanted all the power. He was ambitious, he。
was manipulative, he was scheming. The problem is this, true leaders earn the right to lead.。
True leaders earn the right to lead. And you see, the thing is, at this point Israel had。
no king because Israel wasn't supposed to have a king. Israel's king was supposed to。
be who? God. God was supposed to be the one who was supposed to lead this nation. But。
you see, this is the thing that reminded me and really convicted me. As I look down on。
Abimelech, as I'm looking at him thinking, you, why are you, your life is just, you're。
incredibly stupid. But then I realized inside the heart of every person is this desire to。
be king, is this desire to be God. That we are all in some ways power hungry, at least。
I am. And you might think, well, I'm not that bad. I'm not as bad as Abimelech. And for。
me, I hope I'm not either. But then I'm thinking, you know what, maybe there are some aspects。
of my life where I am in desire, where I'm desiring to be God myself. Every time I try。
and take control of something in my life, every time I try to pursue my own ambitions,。
my own agenda, every time I feel as though I'm offended by someone or I've been slighted。
by someone and I want to take it into my own hands and I want to take control of the situation.。
I want to assert authority in my own life over someone else. Maybe that's revealing。
that I have a desire to be God, that I have that same desire. And I think inside the heart。
of every person is that desire to be in control. I don't know about you. I don't know what。
areas of your life you feel that you are always wanting to make sure that everything is settled,。
everything is under control. And a lot of these feelings don't come from a bad place.。
We're not trying to take over the world. We just want our own lives to be set in our own。
ways based on our own preferences. And I think in some ways that itself is us trying to wrestle。
away control from God. That is us not being willing to relinquish control and surrendering。
to God. Inside the heart of every person is that desire to be God. And the problem is。
this, that is the reason for the fall of mankind. That is what caused Adam and Eve to make that。
first mistake, wanting to feel that they are God, that they are the ones that know everything,。
they are in control. And so it really requires all of us, brothers and sisters, to ask ourselves,。
what areas of our lives do we think we are actually being power hungry, that we haven't。
actually surrendered to God? You know, we ask, the Psalmist asks in Psalm 139, "God,。
you have to search my heart and test my thoughts to see if there is any offensive way in me。
because I know my heart is deceitful. There are areas in my life that I know that I am。
refusing to relinquish control. I know right there I am wanting to be king. I am wanting。
to be God." You know, I took two weeks off recently and I watched an old film, an old。
favorite of mine called Gladiator, Gladiator by Russell Crowe. And Russell Crowe plays。
this mighty warrior who is in charge of the Roman Empire called Maximus. And there's a。
scene early on in the film, and I'm not afraid to give you spoilers, it's been like 20 years。
that you've had every chance to watch it. There's the scene where Caesar, the emperor,。
is about to die. So he's looking for someone to succeed him. And of course, he has his。
own son, but his own son is a little bit like a Bimelic. So he wants to give control to。
Maximus, Russell Crowe. And then Russell Crowe, so he tells Russell Crowe, he tells Maximus,。
"I want you to take over my empire." And Russell Crowe tells him, "No, it can't be me. I can't。
do it. I don't want to do it." And then Caesar tells him, "That's exactly the reason why。
you are the only one who can, who should, because you don't want that power. You don't。
want that control." In some ways, it's the same as a true leaders are not power hungry.。
True leaders are not power hungry. They're not ambitious in the way that they want to。
seize power. But really, true leaders are humble. True leaders are humble and not power。
hungry. I see I'm triggering a lot of holy conversation in the chat room about Gradiator。
Now. Well done, everyone. And I'm seeing lots of smiles and giggles, clearly not about my。
sermon because it was supposed to be very serious. Okay. Anyway, pay attention, class.。
Goodness me. Anyway, it is a really good movie. Yes, I did say you could talk, but now I'm。
regretting it. We should have closed the chat room. Note to self. Man, here I was thinking。
Judges 9 was just so compelling. It was more about Gladiator. Anyway, bad leadership 101.。
True leaders are not supposed to be power hungry. Number two is this. True leaders do。
not recruit badly. You see, verse four, he takes this money and he goes, and who does。
he hire? Worthless and reckless fellows. People who he thinks will basically agree with his。
thoughts. You see, he knew what he was doing. He knew what he was doing because he knew。
he had to hire people who would not disagree with him. He had to hire people who would。
basically just do as he says. You see, true leaders, good leaders, godly leaders surround。
themselves with godly people. Surround themselves with people who they know will hold them accountable,。
who will tell them the truth. Abimelech, this king, surrounded himself with reckless fellows。
who basically would do whatever he said and would not hold him accountable at all. He。
surrounded himself with people who were of the same mind. But if you're a true leader,。
you would assemble people around you in your friendship groups. If you were a leader in。
the corporate field, you would hire people who would hold you accountable, who will basically。
disagree with you when you are wrong. Okay. And so this really brings me to my second。
thought, my second conviction, which is this, inside the heart of every person is the desire。
to be agreed with, to be listened to and to be agreed with. Inside the heart of every。
person is that desire to be agreed with. You know, Galatians, the apostle Paul talks about。
this 110, you know, are you seeking the approval of man or of God? And Abimelech is just finding。
people who will do whatever he says and basically do it. But really what we need, if we are。
to be leaders, and actually, what I can say here to all of these faces on the screens。
here, you are all called to be leaders. You are all called to be leaders because the church,。
the body of Christ is supposed to be the one that's leading people to God. And so it's。
very key that we, all of us here, surround ourselves with people who are not just yes。
men. We can see how damaging and destructive that is when we see some governments that。
maybe have this problem. We need to have people who are willing to hold us accountable. You。
see, there's a passage in scripture, which is a bad company corrupts good morals. And。
of course, Abimelech didn't really need any help getting corrupted, but you get the point。
here, which is that it is so important to be surrounded by good and godly people. So。
my question to all of us here is this, how are the people that are surrounding you? What。
are they like? Are they godly? Do they hold you accountable? Do they support you in the。
right way? Do they push you towards God or are they distracting you away from God? And。
how do you perceive these people? Do you live for their approval? Or actually, are you actually。
able to put God as the highest and have these people around you? Who are the people that。
are surrounding you? And the other point is this, he did not invest in any of these people.。
He simply gave them money and they were just hired guns to basically help murder his brothers。
for him. And of course, I don't think any of us here are thinking of doing that right。
now, at least I hope not. But who are the people that God has placed around you? Or。
rather, who are the people that you're choosing to put around you yourself? You see, good。
leadership, good leaders choose carefully who they put around themselves. They invest。
in the right people and they are all people who are godly. So it's up to us to invest。
in the right people. And the final point is this, Bad Leadership 101.3 is he was pride。
filled. Ibn Malek's journey was all about pride. It was pride that caused him to want。
to be king. It was pride that caused him to get the money and recruit people to then kill。
others. It was pride that caused him, once his own people, the people of Shechem turned。
against him, it was pride that caused him to want to destroy his own town. He basically。
sabotaged his own kingdom. And then it was pride, something tripped in him, it caused。
him a power trip where he then decided, you know what, I'm just going to go and attack。
and capture the next town. And it was pride that caused him to basically lead himself。
to his own death. And it was pride that even before dying, in those final few moments,。
he still couldn't let it go. And he still needed his soldier to draw his sword to kill。
him so that it's not a woman who kills him. Can you see that this guy is just so full。
of pride, that this old saying that pride comes before every fall. And again, that pride。
comes from that desire to be lifted up to be God. And so my final reflection for me。
is inside every person is that desire to be exalted. Inside every person is that desire。
to be exalted and to be acknowledged and to be shown to be significant, important, talented.。
But you see, it's ironic, because it's his pride that led to his destruction. And Jesus。
talks about this. He says, the first will be last and the last will be first. Those。
who exalt themselves will be humbled. And it's only those who humble themselves who。
will be exalted. And Abimelech showed us that leadership is pride filled. And so that's。
Abimelech. Really, it shows us no good example of any good leadership. But it really reminds。
me and whilst we're looking at this, and we might be discouraged that wow, these people。
are so bad, I hope it really causes us to reflect on actually, where in my heart is。
there a little bit of Abimelech? And also, finally, to be encouraged that actually, there。
is a good leadership example out there. You see, at every area where Abimelech fell and。
failed, Jesus redeems and shows what good leadership is. So every opportunity that Abimelech。
had to display bad leadership 101, Jesus comes to redeem and shows us a good leadership 101.。
See, Jesus himself wasn't power hungry. He had the highest renown already. He had the。
throne in heaven. Yet, what does it say in Philippians? He didn't count equality with。
God something to be grasped. Instead, he let it go. And he humbled himself. He left his。
own throne to come down. And that's what made him the example that we should all follow.。
He humbled himself and dethroned himself. And even when he got here, not only did he。
choose to be born in a manger, but then even as an adult, he chose to wash his disciples'。
feet. He was the servant king. He was the one who showed us that true leadership is。
humble and not power hungry. And he also didn't recruit poorly. Yes, he chose disciples that。
had their flaws, but he invested in them. He spent three, four years living with them,。
doing life with them, making disciples of them. And that group of 12 ended up changing。
the world, ended up outliving the Roman empire, and ended up imitating him and being willing。
to lay down their own lives. And true good leadership is not pride filled. Jesus had。
the opportunity to have all the kingdoms. Even when he came down to the earth and he。
was taken into the wilderness by the spirit and he was face to face with the enemy, the。
enemy said, "Hey, look, here's a shortcut. You could be done with this. You don't need。
the cross. Look, if you came for the world, I'll give you the world. Here you go. You。
can have all the world. You just need to bow down to me. That's all you need. And you can。
get everything. Everything can be at your feet." And yet Jesus resisted. Jesus humbled。
himself to the Father's will. He humbled himself to the Father's will, even when he didn't。
feel like it. And that's where he asks, "It's your will that is done, Lord. I just want。
what you want, Father." So Jesus shows us that to be the best leader, we have to not。
be power hungry. We have to surround ourselves with the right people and we have to be humble.。
The best leaders in the world right now then are the people who are willing to follow him.。
The best leaders are the best followers. His leadership is one of submitting to God's authority。
and ending up with being having every name, the name above every name. And he is the only。
one that is worthy of us following him. So my prayer for all of us, as I conclude, is。
this. And a question that I want to ask you all to reflect is, are there any areas in。
your life where you could do with swapping out this Abimelech trait and swapping in a。
Jesus trait? Is there any area of your life where you are just still trying to wrestle。
control from God? And I want to encourage you to look to Jesus, that Jesus in his love。
for you was willing to let himself completely go and empty himself for you. And that is。
the best kind of leader. He is the example that we should aim to follow. And for us,。
as we are leaders in our industries, in our fields, or just in our friendship groups,。
we pray that we will exhibit that same trait that Jesus did, that we are the best leaders。
because we are the best followers of God. And our prayer is that the spirit is the one。
that guides us in any and every aspect of our lives. Let's pray.。
Father Lord, we thank you. We thank you that the Bible is real. The Bible is real and that。
it doesn't eliminate bad examples and characters like Abimelech, but that we get to see mankind。
that is worse. And we get to recognize and repent ourselves that actually, even in these。
terrible characters, there are some traits that we exhibit that are not too far off from。
them. And so Lord, I pray that you, your spirit will purify us and cleanse our hearts and。
search our hearts so that if there is any Abimelech in us, that Lord, in your name,。
they be removed. But Lord, that we decrease and you increase in our lives and that we。
all are molded and every day sanctified to becoming more and more like you. Lord, you。
are the true leader that we seek to follow. You are the servant king and we live and seek。
to follow your example. So we pray that you will reveal yourself more and more to us Lord.。
Thank you God. And as we go into a time of reflection with a song, Lord we pray that。
the words in the song will really guide us and be the cry of our hearts as we leave this。
Zoom call and share with each other. And as we live our lives in this strange time, Lord。
that we, our hearts, will follow you with all our hearts, all our minds. We thank you。
God. In Jesus name, Amen.。
