(silence)。
- All right, thank you very much.。
That was an awesome video.。
It is great to be connecting with all of you tonight.。
And we are continuing our series on Advent.。
We are talking about mighty God, mighty God.。
And just like we read and we saw the video just now,。
for to us a Christ, a child is born。
and he shall be called wonderful counselor,。
mighty God, everlasting father and prince of peace.。
So here's the first discussion question.。
This is gonna be a more interactive,。
yeah, more interactive sermon.。
What comes to mind when you think of Jesus as mighty God?。
I want you to type into the chat, what comes to mind?。
What are the first couple of things that come to mind。
when you think of Jesus as mighty God?。
I wanna see some of your answers.。
Son of God, yes, absolutely.。
Thank you, Agnes.。
Yeah, what others?。
Maybe anybody else?。
Power, very good.。
Yeah, he's powerful, absolutely.。
All right, what comes to mind?。
Anybody else?。
What comes to mind?。
Salvation, absolutely.。
Yeah, the power to save us, very good.。
Others?。
Yeah, sovereign, very good.。
Love, yeah, unstoppable, very cool.。
Yeah, great answers, unconditional.。
Absolutely, creator, absolutely.。
Yeah, thank you so much for those answers.。
That's very good.。
So this, let me go back to the slide.。
What comes to mind?。
This word is El Gabor.。
It comes from the Hebrew word,。
and this Gabor, it means it could be strong,。
it could be mighty.。
Some people even interpret it as hero, mighty hero.。
You know, hero God, he transforms hearts.。
I see your answer, it's very good.。
King of kings, very good.。
Let's look into the story of the nativity.。
Let's look at Luke chapter two.。
Could Jesus be mighty God?。
And we'll see as he comes to earth.。
So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth。
in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David,。
because he belonged to the house and line of David.。
He went there to register with Mary,。
who was pledged to be married to him。
and was expecting a child.。
While they were there,。
the time came for the baby to be born.。
And she gave birth to her firstborn, a son.。
She wrapped him in clothes and placed him in a manger。
because there was no guest room available for them.。
Could Jesus be mighty God?。
Could Jesus be mighty God?。
We see here that there was no room available for him.。
For a mighty God, there was no room available?。
Could that be?。
I mean, a manger, has anybody been to a manger before?。
I've been walking past, you know, Happy Valley,。
the Jockey Club where there's the horse races。
and the horses, and you smell sort of the horses。
at the stable.。
Does it smell good?。
It might smell better than your washroom, hopefully, right?。
Have you been in a chicken farm?。
Have you been in a sheep farm?。
Does it smell good?。
I hope that, you know, congratulations to Josh and Mel.。
Their baby wasn't born in a manger, was it?。
It was born in a beautiful hospital,。
nicely clean and sanitized.。
That Jesus, a mighty God,。
born with no room available?。
And where was he born?。
He's born in a dirty place with horse poop and chicken poop.。
You know, it probably did not smell nice.。
So there was no birthplace for this mighty God.。
And what else?。
We see that he was pursued by King Herod, right?。
King Herod sent men after him.。
He was not accepted by his own people.。
It says in John chapter one。
that his own people did not recognize him.。
His own people did not recognize him.。
This mighty God was not accepted.。
And lastly, we see that this mighty God had no home.。
He had to flee Joseph, Mary,。
and took Jesus to Egypt。
because King Herod was sending people to kill baby Jesus.。
They fled.。
They were refugees.。
Could this be a mighty God with such humble beginnings?。
No birthplace, no acceptance, no home.。
Today, we will see how Jesus is mighty God.。
He is mighty God over the physical realm.。
He is mighty God over the intellectual.。
He is mighty God, as we see in the next slide,。
through the emotional.。
Mighty God over the social and the spiritual.。
Firstly, I want us to discuss here in the chat once again,。
how do you see Jesus as mighty God over the physical realm?。
Are there any examples that comes to mind。
that Jesus is mighty God over the physical realm?。
Any examples?。
Yeah, he turns water into wine.。
That's so cool, right?。
He could transform the water molecules, the H2O,。
into what is the chemical balance of wine?。
Does anybody know?。
Uncle Vincent, should he know?。
Yeah, he changes storms, right?。
He calms the storms.。
That's so good.。
You guys should be preaching this.。
I mean, it shouldn't be me.。
Yeah, he heals people, the blind and the sick.。
Absolutely.。
Parting the Red Sea.。
That's an interesting one, Louis,。
because I think that might be Moses.。
That's an interesting one, but I'm sure Jesus could do it.。
I'm sure Jesus could part the Red Sea.。
I'm not sure he did that during his time on Earth.。
All right, let's look at how Jesus is mighty。
over the physical realm in our next slide.。
Firstly, we see that Jesus was mighty before his birth,。
before his birth.。
In John 1, verse three, it says that all things。
were made through him, and without him,。
nothing that was made, nothing was made that was made.。
It says very clearly here that all things。
were made through Jesus.。
He was active in creation, active in creation.。
We see the next slide, Colossians 1, verse 16.。
For by him, all things were created that are in heaven。
and that are on Earth, right?。
Both visible and invisible, not just on Earth,。
but in heaven, oh my goodness, wow, right?。
Whether thrones or dominions, principalities or powers,。
all things were created through him and for him.。
Jesus is mighty God even before he was born,。
physically born on Earth.。
And not only was he mighty God before he was born,。
he was mighty God during his time on Earth.。
Through all your examples, right, turning water into wine,。
through his resurrection, walking on water, right?。
You guys had some of these examples.。
He had the power to turn H2O into this amazing wine.。
I'm sure his wine was better than all the Bordeaux's。
that you have, right?。
Right?。
All the Bordeaux's, all the beautiful wines in the world.。
Imagine how amazing Jesus' wine could have been.。
He calmed the storms, he commanded the storms to be clear.。
That's amazing.。
Imagine thunder just being silent.。
Imagine hailstorms turning into sunny,。
sunny, beautiful days.。
What an amazing, mighty God we have.。
He fed the 5,000.。
He commanded nothing into being, right?。
That's so cool that he could turn things,。
nothing into food.。
He can multiply bread into thousands of bread。
or thousands of fish.。
He healed the blind and the sick.。
He had command over diseases.。
Imagine Jesus changing, right?。
Changing the cells in your body,。
turning them from good to bad.。
What an amazing, mighty God.。
We could see right through the microscope。
how amazingly detailed diseases are.。
And Jesus knew how to turn those diseases into good cells。
or destroy the diseases.。
Amazing.。
What an amazing God that we have.。
How is God, next, how is God, mighty God。
over the intellectual realm?。
Any ideas, any thoughts?。
Please type in the chat.。
I wanna hear your thoughts.。
How is God, how is Jesus mighty God。
over the intellectual realm?。
Any thoughts?。
Come on, you got this.。
You got this.。
Anshan, you got this.。
I see you guys thinking.。
Julian, you have something good?。
Melanie, anything?。
How is Jesus mighty God over the intellectual realm?。
Any thoughts?。
Uncle Vincent is typing up an essay.。
I see him.。
Never got trapped, absolutely.。
He never got trapped by the Pharisees, absolutely.。
Yeah, he is the way, the truth, and the light.。
Yeah, he proclaimed the truth, absolutely.。
Very good.。
We're gonna see, next slide,。
how Jesus is mighty God over the intellectual realm.。
Keep those comments coming.。
Always welcome.。
Jesus is mighty God over the intellectual realm,。
firstly, because of his knowledge of scripture.。
He had total control and knowledge of the word of God.。
And we see that, firstly, right, through his temptation.。
When the devil took him to the mountains to test him,。
and the devil was saying all these scriptures,。
he always countered those scriptures with,。
for it is written, as we see in the next slide here,。
for it is written, worship the Lord your God,。
and serve him only.。
He always responded well with scripture,。
because he had command and total understanding of scripture.。
Also, we see that he was all-knowing, right?。
He interacted with the Samaritan woman.。
And what happened in his interaction。
with the Samaritan woman?。
He knew, he knew that the Samaritan woman was a doubt cast.。
He knew the Samaritan woman was unfaithful,。
and that this was actually his fifth or sixth husband.。
Right, he had all the knowledge.。
He knows our hearts.。
He knows your hearts.。
He is all-knowing.。
Not only that, we see, just like Florence said,。
he never got trapped by the Pharisees or Sadducees.。
His wisdom is greater than any human wisdom.。
He is mighty over the intellectual realm.。
Time and time again, the Pharisees tried to trap him, right?。
Will you offer taxes to Rome?。
And Jesus said, "Give to Caesar what is Caesar's," right?。
And give to God what is God's.。
And so we see that Jesus is mighty。
over the intellectual realm.。
Not only is he mighty over the intellectual realm,。
he's mighty over human emotions.。
Over his own emotions is he mighty.。
And firstly, we see in the temptation of Jesus, right?。
The devil tempted him, right?。
He showed him, in the next slide, all the highest mountains.。
I'll give you all this.。
He tried to tempt Jesus with his eyes and say,。
look at this, do you want it, right?。
We always go window shopping,。
and the windows are full of all these things we want.。
But Jesus saw it and said, no, I will not be tempted.。
Away from me, Satan, for it is written,。
worship the Lord your God and serve him only.。
Jesus had the full weight, the full weight, you know,。
of the, full weight, right, on his body.。
Full weight of temptation on his body.。
Yet he lifted it up, he lifted it up and was not tempted.。
He is mighty God over temptation.。
And we also see that Jesus is mighty over human emotions。
because he was obedient to the cross, obedient to the cross.。
And it says in verse 38 of Matthew, chapter 26,。
"My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death.。
"Stay here and keep watch with me."。
And he prayed to the Father,。
"My Father, if it is possible,。
"may this cup be taken away from me,。
"yet not as I will, but as you will."。
Yes, he was feeling the sorrow,。
but yet he was still willing to be obedient to the cross.。
And it says in Philippians chapter two, verse eight,。
"And being found in human form,。
"he humbled himself by being obedient。
"to the point of death."。
Even death on the cross.。
Jesus had the full weight of temptation on him.。
Yet he overcame, he overcame.。
All right, so we went through the physical,。
the intellectual, the emotional.。
Now, next question, how is Jesus mighty God。
over his social environment?。
How is Jesus mighty God over his social environment?。
Put on your thinking caps.。
How is Jesus mighty God over his social environment?。
Any thoughts?。
I see some of you typing, some of you thinking.。
He reached out to the outcasts, very good, right?。
Back then and even now, right?。
We don't associate ourselves with those we think are sick。
or unclean or those with leprosy.。
You don't touch, right?。
You don't want to become unclean and have leprosy yourself.。
Brings in social outcasts, yes.。
Didn't get, yeah, overcome by peer pressure, very good.。
He ate with tax collectors and sinners, very good.。
You guys are awesome.。
Pastor John is very good with these answers.。
Let's, maybe he looked into my slides.。
I think that's what happened.。
Let's look into the next slide,。
how Jesus was mighty God over his social circumstances.。
He connected with women, right?。
Back then, women did not have position, couldn't be CEOs,。
couldn't maybe vote or own property back then,。
but Jesus connected with women, right?。
The Samaritan woman even questioned,。
how is it that you, a Jew, a man, a Jewish man,。
is talking with me, a Samaritan woman?。
How is it that you are a prophet。
and you're connecting with me, possibly a social outcast?。
Jesus connected with women.。
He spent time with Mary and Martha and comforted them.。
He allowed this woman to pour perfume onto him。
and wash him with her hair.。
And the Pharisees were like,。
how is it that your teacher allows sinners to come,。
adulterous people to come and touch him and be with him?。
Jesus was counter-cultural.。
Jesus was counter-cultural.。
Jesus forgave tax collectors and sinners.。
He forgave Zacchaeus, right?。
Tax collectors were seen as traitors。
because they worked for Rome,。
but Jesus forgave him and ate with Zacchaeus.。
Today, I'm gonna go to your house.。
Wow, Zacchaeus was shocked.。
All the people surrounded this adulterous woman。
and took up stones and were ready to throw the stone。
in it at her.。
But Jesus said, "If you are without sin,。
"would you cast the first stone?"。
Jesus was counter-cultural。
because he ate with sinners and tax collectors。
and forgave them.。
He said to the paralyzed man, "Get up and walk."。
Your sins are forgiven.。
That the Pharisees were like, how is it possible?。
This person says that you could forgive sins?。
He could forgive sins?。
Only God can forgive sins.。
And that exists exactly what Jesus said,。
that he is forgiven of his sins。
in Matthew 9:6.。
He touched, he touched.。
He touched the untouchable.。
The sinners, the lepers, he touched them.。
He asked the children to come to him.。
When most people were like, push the children aside,。
they're not important.。
And he taught godly values.。
He told the rich man, "Give away your possessions。
"and follow me."。
He taught that people should take up the cross.。
When the cross was seen as cruel punishment,。
he said, "Take up the cross.。
"What good is it if you gain the world,。
"but forfeit your soul?。
"That money is the root of all evil,。
"but treasure, true treasure, is found in heaven."。
He was counter-cultural.。
He was mighty God over his social circumstance.。
Lastly, we see that Jesus was mighty God。
over the spiritual realm.。
How is Jesus mighty God over the spiritual realm?。
You guys can type your answers.。
Anybody know?。
How is Jesus mighty God?。
Yes, resurrection, casted out demons, very good.。
Let's see in the next slide here.。
First, Jesus is mighty over the powers of darkness.。
The man spoke a loud voice and said,。
"What do you want with me, Jesus,。
"Son of God of the Most High?"。
Even the devil, even the demons acknowledged。
that Jesus is the Son of the Most High.。
Right, amazing, amazing.。
Jesus is mighty over the powers of darkness.。
And lastly, Jesus is mighty over the powers。
of death and sin.。
Jesus said, "I am the resurrection and the life.。
"Whoever believes in me will live even though they die.。
"For the wages of sin is death.。
"The gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus."。
Jesus is mighty over demons.。
Jesus is mighty over our sin.。
Jesus is mighty over death.。
He's the one that connects us back to the Father,。
connects us back to God.。
And so we see from this that Jesus, in the next slide,。
that Jesus is mighty God over the physical,。
over the intellectual, over the emotional,。
over the social and the spiritual realm.。
As we look into the next slide,。
I remember when I was hiking one time。
and I was just so amazed.。
I saw this beautiful mountain.。
And at that time, I was so amazed.。
And I was like, "Wow, you are mighty God."。
I looked at the mountains and the clouds。
and it was just, "Wow, God, you spoke."。
And this came to be amazing.。
I remember when Ravi Zacharias came to Calfolk Church。
and he did his event.。
And I was just amazed at how God had empowered this man。
to speak on behalf of him.。
And imagine how smart Ravi Zacharias is.。
How much more intelligent is Jesus?。
He is mighty God over the intelligent, intellectual realm.。
Jesus is mighty God over the social realm, right?。
Over the emotional realm.。
I remember I was counseling this student。
who had broken up with a girlfriend。
and this girlfriend was his idol.。
I know some of you have gone through this.。
He was going through a breakup and he was like,。
"This girl is my idol.。
She's my everything."。
And it got so bad to the point。
that he wanted to commit suicide。
just to get her attention.。
And I was reminding this student day in, day out,。
trust in God, replace these feelings for this girl。
with your devotion and love for God.。
And it seemed hopeless, right?。
'Cause I was saying the same things over and over again,。
but yet there was no change.。
But after several months,。
he started devoting himself to the word of God.。
God changed him.。
And he's so devoted and passionate.。
A year later, he's so passionate。
towards serving God, reading the word every day,。
serving God, meditating on his word.。
Jesus is mighty over his emotions.。
I saw Jesus as mighty God over his emotions.。
When we worship together as a society at KFC。
and we see each other lifting our praises to the Lord,。
I feel Jesus is mighty over our social circumstances.。
And when I see people coming to know Jesus,。
I met a friend recently, his name is Albert,。
and he came to know Jesus just recently,。
growing up from a Catholic background.。
He knew of Jesus, but never placed his life。
in the hands of Jesus as Lord and Savior.。
Just last Thursday, he said,。
"Now I see God's plan in my life,。
"that where he's called me, that he has a plan for me,。
"that he loves me.。
"I see how Jesus has become mighty over his spiritual life."。
Now the question is, is Jesus, as we see in the next slide,。
is Jesus mighty God over your life,。
over your physical life, your intellectual, your mind,。
your emotions, your social circumstances?。
Is Jesus mighty over your spiritual circumstances?。
We're going to see in the next slide。
that it's all about trust.。
It's all about trust, as we see in the next slide.。
For the physical, who do you trust?。
Do you trust God to provide for you,。
or are you trusting in yourself to provide?。
Do you believe that Jesus is mighty God,。
that he will carry you through this hard economic time?。
Do you believe that Jesus is mighty。
over the intellectual realm?。
Do you trust in yourself for knowledge,。
or do you trust him for knowledge,。
for wisdom, for your work, for your school?。
Do you trust that Jesus is mighty God over your emotions,。
your highs, your lows?。
Do you trust Jesus?。
Do you let society shape your values and beliefs,。
or is Jesus the first priority?。
Or is Jesus the first priority?。
And for your spiritual realm,。
are you depending on Jesus as mighty to save you?。
You depend on your own works to gain yourself into heaven,。
or do you depend on Jesus?。
And I want to end off with this verse here,。
and it's the angel of the Lord appearing to the shepherds,。
and the angel said, "Do not be afraid, Mary."。
Sorry, I mean Mary, not the shepherds.。
"Mary, for you have found favor with God.。
"You will conceive and give birth to a son.。
"You are to call him Jesus.。
"He will be great,。
"and he will be called the Son of the Most High.。
"The Lord will give him the throne of his father, David,。
"and he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever.。
"His kingdom will never end."。
Is Jesus mighty God over your life?。
Will you let Jesus reign over your life。
just as he will reign forever and ever?。
We're going to respond in a song,。
and it's called "Mighty to Save."。
Maybe you've come unto our worship for the first time.。
Maybe you've come many times,。
but you've never made this point to ask Jesus。
to be the mighty Savior, mighty God over your life.。
You can do that now.。
You can ask Jesus to be the Lord and Savior of your life.。
If you would like to do that, you can pray with me.。
I'm going to say a prayer,。
and you can repeat after me。
to ask Jesus to be mighty Savior over your life.。
Let's all pray together.。
"Dear Jesus, I thank you for dying on the cross.。
"I thank you for coming on earth。
"to be the ultimate sacrifice.。
"I want to confess that I need a Savior.。
"I cannot save myself.。
"I am a sinner.。
"Jesus, come into my heart.。
"Be the Lord and Savior of my life.。
"Make me the person that you want me to be.。
"In Jesus' name I pray, amen."。
If you prayed that prayer,。
Jesus now lives in you and reigns in your life,。
and he is your mighty God.。
God bless you.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
