That was good scripture reading.。
I mean, the reason that we get someone to read the scripture is because the words are。
so hard, right?。
So let's get someone else to do it so we don't have to do it.。
No, no, no, no.。
But it's good to always read the scripture in which we are about to look at together。
in full.。
Now, today we won't have time to actually go through every single verse in detail, but。
we will get to see at least verse one to eight in detail.。
So previous weeks we've been looking at 2 Timothy and do you remember what we've been。
going through?。
It was to guard, to work, to continue.。
So these are the three weeks leading up to what we're speaking on today.。
And today, as you've just seen, we're going to talk about to preach.。
Now how many of you have had the chance where you're responsible for something?。
And so when you had to leave that job or that particular responsibility, you had to pass。
it on to someone else.。
How many of us have done that?。
I mean, maybe when you've left a job or maybe when you're in a student committee and you're。
in a club, right?。
You had to do that.。
And so this is what's happening here.。
Now I remember my last job when I had to leave, I was responsible for a particular program.。
And what I did was I cherished that because it was kind of like my baby.。
I started that program.。
So what I did was I wrote a manual making sure that everything was detaily written down.。
And I don't know about you, but I always save files on my desktop.。
So I have about 200 of them just randomly saved, right?。
Am I the only one who does that?。
Pretty sure I'm not.。
So I went to just rename everything and put everything back.。
And so we kind of see that's what Paul's kind of doing with Timothy.。
He's telling him all these things because he knows that he's about to be persecuted.。
And so he needs to make sure that, "Hey, Timothy, get this, do this, to do this."。
And now we're at the very last part where he's telling us to preach.。
So today that's what we're going to be looking at.。
So what we see is he wastes no time.。
And let's look at the verse together.。
In verse one and two it says, "In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who will judge。
the living and the dead, and in view of His appearing and His kingdom, I give you this。
charge.。
Preach the word, be prepared in season and out of season, correct rebuke and encourage,。
with great patience and careful instructions."。
Now when I see that he wastes no time is because right in verse one he says, "In the presence。
of God and Christ Jesus."。
Now how often do you tell someone something and say, "Hey, you know what I'm about to。
tell you?。
God is right here testifying."。
We don't hear that a lot.。
So we know that whatever it is he's about to say is so important that he is calling。
out for God and Jesus' witness for them to be there.。
So we should have our ears up and ready to hear what he wants to say.。
And what's more is he's highlighting the fact that he is the judge who is to judge the living。
and the dead.。
I mean, think about it, Paul had like many other descriptions that he could have described。
God at this moment.。
He could have called him the Holy One or the everlasting Father, but he doesn't.。
He calls him the judge of the living and the dead.。
So that kind of gives us a clue that whatever he's about to say has some sort of eternal。
effect.。
It's not just about any random things, but it has a very heavy eternal effect.。
So with that, that's the kind of intensity we should be having as we read this.。
And now of course he says, "Preach the word, be prepared in season and out of season, correct。
rebuke and encourage."。
Now what do most of us, when we hear the word preach, what's your first respond?。
Huh?。
Pastor.。
You're like, "All right, it's time for me to snooze and close my ears because this has。
nothing to do with me.。
It's for the one who stands on the pulpit or the teacher in front of class, or maybe。
you know my clan leader, they do a bit of teaching as well.。
But what does it have to do with me?。
I'm not preaching anything."。
That's what we usually think.。
But the word preach was never just associated with the pastors or the teachers.。
In fact, the word preach just meant to declare something, to declare out, to speak out.。
And right now Paul's asking not only Timothy, but for all of us to speak out the word of。
the truth, which is what's in the Bible and also who Jesus is.。
So don't tune out because it's for all of us.。
And it's so crucial that Paul at the very beginning is saying, "I'm saying this, literally。
on behalf of God and Christ Jesus, preach the word."。
Now this is not the only verb because actually all of these five highlighted verbs are actually。
imperatives.。
So which means in Greek, it's really a command and all five of these are together, except。
we don't want to make a title that says to preach, to prepare, to correct and rebuke。
and to encourage.。
That's a really long title.。
But what it's really saying is that we need to do all of these things.。
And so the first point that I want to bring out is that we need to preach with your words。
in speech.。
This is a crucial part that Paul is asking us as well as Timothy to do, is that we need。
to speak out.。
Remember in the last verse, it says it's to correct, to rebuke.。
So you're not just speaking at any opportunity, but one that when people are misaligned with。
the truth, we need to correct them.。
Now when does that happen?。
You kind of see it sometimes maybe with your coworkers, they might start to have some marital。
affairs that you're aware of, right?。
And so you want to speak up at that time.。
Or you might see someone, your friends might be depressed to a point where they think that。
they're worthless.。
And in that moment, you want to speak the truth to them and say, "No, Jesus loves you.。
God loves you.。
And there's hope."。
And these are the time when we need to correct and rebuke them.。
Because as we see these people around us, you and I have actually very different audiences.。
Your friends and family may be people that I or Christina or like Philemon will never。
get to, and only you would.。
And so we need to be on our guard.。
And it says here that in season, out of season, which means that it's any time, any time,。
we need to be ready for it.。
And we need to correct and rebuke.。
And yet it has something at the end, which is to encourage with patience.。
So we need to preach with our words, with our speech.。
And so let's read on.。
I mean, what's the reason for preaching or correcting the people that are around us?。
And it says here in verse three, "For the time will come when people will not put up。
with sound doctrine.。
Instead to suit their own desires, they would gather around them a great number of teachers。
to say what their itching ears want to hear.。
They would turn their ears away from the truth and turn aside to myths."。
Now, so Paul tells us that the very reason that we need to speak out the truth is because。
people don't want to hear.。
I mean, how many people want to hear, I mean, for me, it's my mother who always says the。
right thing, which is like, "Eat your vegetables, sleep early."。
I mean, I know Mel's a mom now, and she's probably starting to do that as well, right?。
So I mean, how many of us want to be surrounded by people who keep telling us what to do the。
right things?。
Okay, there's like one hand.。
I mean, no, we don't.。
We don't want to be surrounded by like, "Don't tell me.。
Yes, I know.。
Don't tell me."。
And however, this is a time when Paul says, "No, don't stop.。
They will turn away from the truth.。
They don't want to hear it, but keep preaching and speaking about it."。
And so as we read on in verse five, he says, "But you," speaking to Timothy, "keep your。
head in all situations, endure hardship, do the work of the evangelist, discharge all。
the duties of your ministry."。
So when we hear the word, "But you," we know that he's separating Timothy and hopefully。
all of us away from those false teacher, which we've been looking at for the last few chapters。
of how they just want to say things that people want to hear.。
But he's saying here, "But you, Timothy, and all of us, don't do that.。
Keep your heads up."。
What does it mean?。
I mean, it's not like, "Don't speak like this."。
I'm pretty sure that's not what he meant.。
When it means keep your heads up, it means spiritually and mentally be aware.。
That's the very first step.。
Because you need to first be aware that the people around you, what their needs are, and。
what kind of ways they're going astray before you can tell them.。
And when you tell them what happens, the reason we're seeing endure hardship is because when。
you approach someone and you want to correct or rebuke them, well, I want to say, "Maybe。
nothing nice will happen."。
Well, maybe not nothing, but sometimes nice things don't happen.。
They might repel you and they might reject you.。
And so in here it says, "Endure and continue to evangelize.。
Discharge all duties."。
So what we see here really is just Paul asking us and Timothy, "Go out, preach the word,"。
because people don't want to hear it.。
They're swayed from the truth, and yet they need to be corrected, rebuked, but with a。
kind of gentleness and patience.。
So now as we read on, we realize that Timothy turns away from this instruction.。
And instead, he begins to have this self-disposure.。
He's exposing himself and he says, "For I am already being poured out like a drink offering,。
and the time for my departure is near.。
I have fought the good fight.。
I've finished the race.。
I've kept the faith."。
Now all of a sudden, Paul pauses and says, "Hey, Timothy, look at me.。
Look at what I've been doing.。
I am being poured out like a drink offering."。
Now what is a drink offering?。
A drink offering was a kind of worship that was combined with usually a burnt sacrifice.。
And it's a way for them to worship deities in the Old Testament.。
And so in a way, Paul is saying, "Look at me.。
I am pouring out my life.。
I am not keeping any bits to myself to a point where I'm about to die for what I believe。
in."。
And so what kind of preaching is that?。
And this brings us to our second point, which is that we need to preach with our actions.。
Now we all know the saying, "Action speaks louder than words," right?。
And it's not very credible when you say one thing and do something else.。
And I'm sure those with kids, you're going to hear them probably say, "Mommy and Daddy,。
why are you doing it?"。
Whatever it is that you have said, they will ask you, "Why are you doing it?"。
And that's when we have to be very-- I mean, I'm not a parent yet, but that's when the。
parents have to be very creative to think of ways, "Why am I doing it?"。
And so in a very similar way, if we're going to preach the gospel and who God is, and if。
we say that God is someone who will provide, and yet we're always the anxious one.。
We're always the one that is fidgeting, "Oh, I can't sleep well because this is happening。
to me."。
That's not going to be a very credible or a convincing message, right?。
Or if you have fought your way into church, you know how-- not me, I mean, not the people。
here, but I'm sure some people would fight their way to church.。
"Hey, I told you to put it there."。
"No, I didn't say."。
And the moment that you see someone, it's like, "Oh, hello.。
Good evening," as if nothing's happening.。
But then the people around us, the closest ones, will see the hypocrisy of that, right?。
So we need to preach without action as well.。
So now as we read on to verse 8, it says, "Now there is in store for me the crown of。
righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not。
only to me, but also to all who have longed for his appearing."。
Now you see, in this verse, we really see what is it that Paul is focusing on.。
He's not-- I mean, maybe I think for me, if I'm about to die, I'm just going to think。
about, "Oh my goodness, is that going to be very painful?。
How are they going to kill me?。
What's it going to be like?"。
But for him, it was none of that.。
His eyes was just fixated on one thing and one thing only.。
And what was that?。
He's going to see God with his very own eyes very soon, any moment.。
And that there's this crown of righteousness that's waiting for him.。
And so his eyes is on that goal of meeting Christ.。
And so this brings us to our third point, which is that we need to preach and tell people,。
but with one goal, and that is to please the Lord that we will see one day.。
Now, you know what's the difference between preaching with this goal and preaching with。
other goals?。
I mean, it's kind of like if we were to do something, let's say we even want to evangelize。
to someone, and we focus on rather or not that person believed in God, if that was our。
goal to try to bring people to Christ, what happens after maybe 50 people does not?。
We get discouraged.。
Or maybe if we are worshiping God with our voice or other talents, and yet we don't get。
that appreciation from other people.。
If our eyes were not fixed on just pleasing God, but on other things, then it's very easy。
to be discouraged.。
And so here we need to preach with this goal, which is to see our God one day.。
And if we have that goal fixated in our hearts, then regardless of what hardship, what disappointment。
we have, we can and will be able to continue.。
And so now, I don't know if you remember verse 17, I don't have it here.。
17 and 18 actually tells us that Paul's reason for being able to press on other than the。
goal is the fact that he is strengthened by the Lord all the time.。
And that's why he also has that confidence saying that he has fought the fight.。
And so we need to be encouraged just the way that Paul is.。
If we fixate our eyes on Jesus, then we can press on.。
And when we see him, we can tell God that we've done our very best to give our very。
every ounce that we have.。
And so today I want to share a story with you about a man named Brad Cohen.。
He is an extraordinary man and his life story has actually been put into a movie.。
And what we see here is that his life wasn't an ordinary one.。
It's called Front of the Class, that's the movie it's been made into.。
And what happened was even when he was young, he would have these tics where he has these。
movements where he would repeatedly do it and he would make this sound kind of like。
animals sound like quack, quack, quack, you know.。
And it would constantly be very disturbing for those in class.。
And it was so disturbing that the teachers would ask him to come to the front of the。
class and apologize to everyone and say that he would never do it again.。
And so of course he said he won't do it again, but he can't control it.。
So he would continue to do it and be disciplined in many ways.。
And so the students kind of follow suit.。
If the teachers are cruel, the students will also be.。
And so he was bullied all the time at school and he had no friends.。
But he had a loving mother who went to the library and she searched up what is going。
on with this son.。
And they came to realize that it's called a Tourette syndrome.。
And this syndrome is actually where it's like a neural malfunction, maldevelopment in which。
that's the way he is and he can't control it.。
And there is no cure for it.。
And so what we see is that over the time that he was at school, he was constantly being。
bullied and he was disturbing class and even when he was in high school.。
And he was disturbing everyone to a point where he was sent to the principal.。
And then the principal asked, "Why don't you come to join the school concert?"。
And he was like, "Oh, no, no, no.。
I can't go to the school concert.。
I'm going to make all these sounds."。
And he was like, "No, no, it's okay.。
Why don't you just come?"。
Being encouraged by the principal, he said, "Okay, okay, I'll go."。
I mean, he really wanted to go, but he just wasn't sure if he could.。
So when he was there at the concert, of course he made these quacking noises in which it。
was disturbing.。
So at the very end, the principal did something very strange.。
He went up on stage and he asked everyone, "Did you guys hear some noise during the concert?"。
And of course, everyone nodded and said, "Yeah, we heard it."。
And he said, "Would the person who made that noise please come up to the stage?"。
And so he was walking up on the stage and he thought, "Oh my goodness, either I would。
be humiliated even more or I would have to apologize to the entire school.。
But whatever it is, he was ready for it."。
And so the principal asked him, he was like, "Were you the one making the noise?"。
He said, "Yes, I was the one."。
He said, "Why are you making that noise?"。
So he started explaining what this Tourette's syndrome was all about and how involuntary。
it was for him.。
And so the principal asked, "So you didn't really want to make these sounds, did you?"。
And then he said, "No."。
"And it's not curable, is it?"。
And he said, "No."。
So being kind of even more ashamed now of who he was and what he was doing, he was slowly。
walking down and thinking, "What is going to happen of me now?"。
And to his surprise, every single person started clapping and applauding him.。
And everybody stood up and was just encouraging him.。
And for the very first time, he said that he felt accepted for just who he was.。
And it was in that moment that he said, "I am going to become a teacher."。
The teacher that he never had.。
And so he continued schooled and throughout his university, he got wonderful grades, like。
outstanding ones, and even got recommendations.。
So then he began to look for a job as a teacher.。
Sometimes after interviews, he did not get a job.。
And every time he would explain to them what this syndrome was, trying to tell them that。
it was okay, I could control myself, but none of the schools would give him a chance.。
And 24 interviews he went through, he did not get a job.。
And so out of frustration and anger, he just didn't know what to do.。
But he pressed on.。
In his 25th interview, there was an assistant principal who, after the interview, said,。
"You know, you're like the best guy.。
You're exactly what we need."。
And so she went to the principal and told him, "Hey, I've got this guy."。
The principal though was extremely hesitant.。
And he said, "I'm not sure if we can convince the parents that he's a good fit."。
And you know what, the assistant principal said something.。
She said, "We can't just talk the talk.。
We need to walk the talk.。
And we need to show the students and the parents that it's okay to hire someone, even with。
disability."。
And with that, they hired him.。
And that year, actually, the state of Georgia awarded him the award, which is the Teacher。
of the First Year award.。
And not only that, but he slowly became a motivational speaker.。
He also became an author, and he added his own family with two kids.。
And now he's even the school administrator.。
And during once an Oprah show, he was being interviewed.。
And Oprah asked him, "Was there ever a moment when you wanted to give up?。
What do you think the answer is, yes or no?"。
Yes.。
And all of you nodding your head.。
And you know what his answer was?。
"Never."。
He said, "Never."。
Because he knew that he had to be that teacher, which would walk with the students that were。
different.。
And his eyes were fixated on that so much.。
And never for a moment, even after the 24 interviews, did he want to give up.。
Now why do I share this story with you, Brad Cohen, this wonderful man?。
Is because I really think that we ought to preach like all the people that were in his。
stories.。
And it was actually a real life story.。
I mean, imagine for a moment that the first principal, if he did not correct the student。
body, if he did not preach through a kind of gentleness, encouraging him to tell the。
student body what was happening to him, where would Brad be if there weren't that principal?。
Or if there weren't the other, the assistant principal, where she went and told the principal,。
we need to give this guy a chance.。
We can't just say, you know, school is equal, there's no racism, and there's no discrimination.。
We can't just say that and not do it.。
If she didn't do that, where would Brad be?。
In the same way, if Brad did not persist, if he did not have his eyes fixated on the。
fact that he needed to be that teacher.。
I mean, all of us, including myself, I would have nodded my head.。
I would have given up at some point.。
But he didn't, because he fixated on something.。
And that's what I wanted to share with us today, that when we preach, when we say that。
we're preaching, it's actually any time, like that principal, it can happen in any way.。
Maybe someone's being bullied.。
We need to go out and find out what's happening.。
You know, why is he being bullied?。
Or if someone's sad around us, we need to go and find out, hey, what's happening?。
Is there something we can do?。
We need to be preaching the word, both correcting it if it's wrong with our speech, and also。
with the action that we are showing the people around them.。
And last of all, I mean, Brad Cohen was fixated on the fact that he needed to be that teacher,。
right?。
So all of us can actually come up with some sort of vow or some sort of-- how should I。
say it?。
Some sort of thing that we would hang on to.。
But it's very different than hanging on to God, because God is an eternal God.。
And He's able, and He will give us this eternal reward, which is very different from all the。
other vows that we could ever have.。
I'm just showing you this to say that if Brad Cohen can hold on to something like a vow,。
shouldn't we all the more hold on to what the Bible told us, which is that one day we。
will see God face to face?。
And one day we will need to be accountable.。
When he asked, where were all the talents that I gave you when you had the chance to。
preach to the people around you of the truth?。
Maybe they don't know about Jesus yet.。
Maybe they do know, and yet they've turned away.。
Maybe they haven't experienced the kind of God that you have experienced.。
Will we go to them?。
And with our actions, will we live up to it?。
I mean, it is hard to live up to it, because even if we hear some injustice today in the。
world-- I think Philemon and I today were earlier hearing the news about some injustice。
that were happening.。
And then I think he was challenging me and saying, hey, would you go and do something。
about that?。
And honestly, I had to say, well, I'm not sure.。
I'm not sure, because sometimes I'm afraid.。
If I do something about it, I might get boycotted.。
I might get into trouble.。
I might have people that will dislike me all the more.。
And yet I think it's those times that we ought to think, wait a minute.。
Am I only living for the temporal?。
Or am I living for the eternal?。
And if it is, then let them boycott, and so be it.。
And if it is really for eternity, then the temporal things should not matter.。
And I charge you, and I challenge you and myself.。
I think fear is usually the thing that come into place.。
Rather or not, we'll take that extra step.。
And I pray that we'll be like Paul, who in prison, in his last moments, still continues。
his work.。
And he continues to a way where he's going to give up his life just to continue and say。
that he believes everything that Jesus said he did, that he did rise from the dead.。
And he will give us this eternal righteous crown.。
So I really urge all of us to preach the word in the workplace that you're in, in the school。
that you're in, in your family, to live it out, to preach it.。
And with one goal in mind, that we will see God one day.。
And I really hope that all of us will be like Paul, being able to say that I poured out。
my life as a drink offering, and that I have fought the good fight of faith.。
I have kept the faith.。
I have finished the race.。
And I pray that this is something that we can say, because only you will know if you。
have done that.。
So let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we pray that you continue to stir in us with your spirit, your truth。
and your word.。
And Father, many a times we do get scared.。
We do get scared and we can't live up to what we say we believe in.。
And yet, Father, we pray that we will be bold like Apostle Paul, that with your spirit and。
with you giving us strength and knowing that you will rescue us into your heavenly realm.。
With that assurance, Father, may we live a very different life.。
May we speak up when you ask us to.。
May we live up with every moment of our action.。
And may we never lose sight of eternity and what you have promised to us.。
We pray, Father, that you would help us, strengthen us every day.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
