- Evening everyone.。
Good to see you.。
How are we all feeling in this rain?。
We good?。
I am gonna, I have promised myself today。
that I'm gonna stand in one spot。
and protect you all from me.。
So just pray for me as I try and do that.。
I do, I'm one of those,。
so my background is secondary school teaching,。
so I would, I'm one of those teachers。
who would just walk around the room constantly.。
So that's, I mean you see when I preach,。
that's what I do.。
It's partly just to kind of calm my nerves,。
but here I am standing behind,。
can you see me or is there a lot of flash?。
Wow, what do you guys,。
oh, the dad jokes.。
Wow.。
Anyway, I wanna start with a question.。
When you don't get what you want,。
what do you do?。
Why?。
Do you know what a two year old does in the supermarket。
when they don't get the sweets they want。
or the toys they want?。
Do you just, they're a tantrum,。
is that what you do?。
Is that, when you've been asking for that one thing,。
maybe just take it a little bit deeper.。
Maybe it's not just an item, an object.。
Maybe it's, maybe you're waiting for something for years.。
Maybe you've been waiting for a long time。
and it still hasn't come.。
What do you do?。
Let me take it even deeper.。
That moment where, maybe just think back。
and maybe it's not that pleasant to go back,。
but so those moments where you're in,。
that song we sang at the end,。
when we're in the valley of the shadow of death,。
in your deepest, darkest, lowest moments,。
what do you do?。
What do you default to?。
When you're stressed, what do you do?。
See, when I get stressed,。
so let's say I've had a fight with Christina。
and I'm feeling very sad for myself。
because obviously she's right.。
Like, the one, of course, that's the way.。
So I like to sleep.。
When I'm upset or stressed, I sleep.。
Well, actually there's two things I do.。
One is sleep.。
The other is retail therapy and I go shopping.。
Wow, you all giggle as gender stereotypes.。
Well, I like shopping for,。
my weakness is like gadgets, electronics,。
like Wan Chai Computer Center.。
Whenever, that's the valley of the shadow of death for me.。
When I walk in there, I'm like,。
what can I, what do I,。
what did I never knew that I ever needed?。
But I know that I need it now.。
What is it I think?。
So those are the two things that I kind of do。
as I go through this.。
But as I'm looking at the passage today,。
and today we're looking at the story of Hannah,。
we see a woman who didn't get what she wanted。
for many, many years.。
And she was very, very distressed for many, many years.。
But we see that she does something very interesting.。
She does a very radical thing.。
And it turns her and it takes her from sorrow to joy.。
So if you're looking for a secret sauce or a recipe,。
Hannah shows you what she does.。
And I wanted to go through that journey with you today.。
But those of you who don't know Hannah,。
I wanna just take a step back。
and tell you about a little bit about her.。
So we all know about Moses.。
We all know that he led the Israelites away from Egypt.。
They escaped slavery.。
Then they head into the promised land.。
This promised land is filled with milk and honey.。
Do you know what happens once they get to the promised land?。
Is it all fun and games?。
No.。
You then go through the season and you see,。
last summer we did, was it last summer。
when we went to the book of Judges?。
I feel as though it might have been.。
It's all blurred together now these years.。
Now we see the Israelites, they get to this promised land.。
And what do they do?。
They just go into these vicious cycles,。
just forgetting God, remembering God, forgetting God,。
remembering God, getting ruled over by these other nations.。
And they ran or they're basically,。
the way that the Israelites were governed was a theocracy.。
They would be led by God himself.。
And he would use judges and prophets to speak to them.。
And the very final judge is a guy called Samuel.。
Today we're talking about Samuel's mom.。
And Samuel is a very important one。
because he's the one that takes Israel,。
or God uses to go from theocracy to having a monarchy.。
From leading, being led by God,。
to now being led by a king.。
And Samuel is the one who anoints。
the first king of Israel, King Saul.。
So that's a bit more.。
If I just maybe go a little bit more back。
into who Hannah is, Samuel's mom.。
Samuel's mom, Hannah, is married to a guy called Elkanah.。
Elkanah has two wives, two wives.。
A little bit similar to the sermon。
I gave a couple of weeks back on Leah and Rachel.。
Two wives called Hannah and Penina.。
And it's actually a very familiar story once again.。
One can have babies and one can't.。
Hannah is the one who can't, but is the one who's loved.。
Penina is the one who isn't loved as much,。
but has the babies.。
And again, you see the story wrapped up in envy.。
And that's the, you know what?。
We've been going through this series enough now。
to see that polygamy and barrenness are real things.。
Well, at least in those days.。
The Bible never explicitly says no to polygamy.。
But as you see from the pages of the word of God,。
you see that polygamy is a bad idea.。
And last time I said, having two wives is a bad idea.。
Who would want more than one wife?。
One wife is more than enough, right?。
And the Bible shows us some of the problems。
that come with having two.。
And the topic of barrenness that we see time and time again.。
I want to just give us a little bit more of a glimpse。
of the problem at hand here.。
The struggle that they went through.。
Now, I don't want to be insensitive.。
I don't want to belittle the situation。
that maybe you're going through if you are wanting children.。
Of course, that's a very real thing。
for many, many couples in this day and age.。
And that's very much an emotional need right now.。
Like if a woman's feeling like they want to have a child,。
it's an emotional need, wanting to be maternal,。
wanting a maternal outlet.。
And it's an emotional need.。
But back in those days,。
it actually took on a very different angle.。
It was actually altogether a very different beast.。
And I want to tell you a little bit about why.。
See, when you have children,。
when you had children back then, it meant a couple of things.。
The first thing is this.。
If you have children,。
it means you're increasing your labour force.。
A lot of those days, it's about working the land,。
working the fields, working whatever you have, the animals.。
So the more kids you have, the more people you have working,。
therefore it equals more money.。
And actually, we're not that far removed。
from this kind of line of thinking, culturally, right?。
My dad was the youngest of 16.。
Actually, he eventually became 10.。
And my mum was the second youngest of 11.。
Very much with that kind of mindset.。
The more kids you have,。
the more you can look after the family, and that's one.。
Number two is, as you know,。
Israelites fought a lot of people, surrounding nations.。
The more people you had, the more soldiers you had.。
The more scary you look.。
And finally, of course, medicine back then。
wasn't the same as it now.。
So the success rate of a child growing up to be an adult。
was only about 40%.。
So again, the more kids you have,。
the higher chance you have of a bigger labor force,。
of a bigger army.。
So then you see, if you look at it from that angle,。
you now get to understand what a woman was thinking.。
Because if you were able to have kids,。
you would be deemed a hero.。
If you couldn't have kids, you'd be useless.。
And so that hopefully just gives you a little bit。
of a better picture of the struggle, the turmoil,。
the level of frustration and pain that Hannah had.。
See, what happens is, she goes on this journey。
from being barren to ultimately having Samuel.。
She's going from sorrow to joy.。
And I wanted to go through that,。
'cause I don't know where you're at right now.。
I don't know whether you're struggling。
with sorrow right now,。
or whether you're struggling with waiting for something,。
or there is some pain inside you.。
If there is, I want to tell you that in these words here。
that we're gonna look today,。
we see a template, we see an example。
of how this young woman goes。
from being completely distraught,。
sorrowful, to being filled with joy.。
And I'll go through, and what I want to do。
is map out what the steps were.。
As we look at this passage,。
we won't quite go through verse by verse,。
but as we look at her story, there's only two chapters here,。
we'll be able to see some of the things。
that actually happened.。
And the next slide is, oh boy, it's already there.。
So she goes from sorrow that leads her to prayer.。
And then from the prayer, it leads her just to surrender,。
and from surrender to worship, and from worship to joy.。
And as we look at this, I pray,。
I pray that the Spirit of the Lord。
will talk and speak into your hearts.。
If there are areas in your life that you are still waiting,。
that you are still frustrated,。
that you are filled with sorrow,。
that you will find encouragement in these words.。
So the first one is this.。
And the verses will come up,。
but I'll read a few of them to you,。
and then I'll call them out.。
So the journey is she goes from sorrow to prayer.。
And we start here at 1 Samuel 1, verse five.。
Actually, we'll go from verse three.。
Now this man used to go up year by year。
from his city to worship.。
This is Elkanah, and to sacrifice to the Lord of hosts。
at Shiloh, where the two sons of Eli are.。
On the day when Elkanah sacrificed,。
he would give portions to Peninnah, his wife,。
and to all her sons and daughters,。
but to Hannah, verse five here,。
but to Hannah, he gave a double portion。
because he loved her, though the Lord had closed her womb.。
Again, we see something very similar to Rachel here.。
The Lord had not opened her womb.。
She could not have babies,。
but her husband loved her dearly。
and would give her double portion, verse six.。
And her rival used to provoke her grievously。
to irritate her because the Lord had closed her womb.。
So it went on year by year.。
As often as she went up to the house of the Lord,。
she used to provoke her.。
Therefore, Hannah wept and would not eat.。
You see that cycle of envy again。
that we saw in Leah and Rachel.。
You see one wife who could have babies, but wasn't loved,。
but you saw a wife who was loved, but couldn't have babies.。
And you're seeing the same dynamic at play again.。
And hopefully you understand a little bit more。
about the nature of it.。
And verse eight,。
and therefore Hannah wept and would not eat.。
Verse eight, "And Elkanah, her husband, said to her,。
"'Hannah, why do you weep and why do you not eat?。
"'And why is your heart sad?。
"'Am I not more to you than 10 sons?'"。
When she says, "Why do you weep and why don't you eat?"。
He's actually saying, "Why are you still being resentful?。
"Your existence should be tied to pleasing me.。
"You should find all your satisfaction in me.。
"I'm more than 10 sons to you.。
"Why are you still being resentful?"。
Her husband doesn't seem to get it.。
Verse nine, "After they had eaten and drunk in Shiloh,。
"Hannah rose."。
Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat。
beside the doorpost of the temple of the Lord.。
So she's had enough.。
This has happened year after year after year.。
They go up, she gets the double portion,。
Penina gets envious of her, starts to irritate her,。
starts to provoke her, drives her to tears.。
Hannah can no longer eat.。
She doesn't even feel in the mood to eat。
and she is completely distressed.。
And this year is different.。
And this year, verse nine, she says,。
"After they had eaten, she rose."。
The word here isn't very active.。
Well, she's like, "I've had enough of this.。
"That is it.。
"This does not continue."。
And she decides to kind of take matters into her own hands.。
What does she do?。
What's the most radical thing that she could do right now?。
It isn't, of course, to try and get a servant。
to have a baby on her behalf.。
It isn't to eat some plants and some mandrakes。
to try and get a baby.。
She does the most radical thing possible.。
And this is where we should learn.。
She goes to pray.。
In her distress, she goes to pray.。
She heads up to the temple and then she starts to pray.。
Verse 10, "She was deeply distressed。
"and prayed to the Lord and wept bitterly."。
Distressed, deeply distressed and prayed to the Lord。
and wept bitterly.。
See, she takes it to God first.。
She takes it straight to God.。
And it reminds me, when I'm stressed, when I'm distraught,。
in my lowest moment, did I go straight to God?。
Did you go straight to God?。
What are the things that you go to, again,。
when you are distressed?。
Is it God?。
Because if it isn't God, maybe that's where you went wrong.。
Maybe that's where I went wrong.。
Hannah here couldn't take it anymore。
and decides to take action.。
And the only thing she can think of doing。
is going to the temple and praying.。
And it reminds me that sometimes when we're not on form,。
when we are at our lowest, do you feel sometimes。
you find it hard to talk to God?。
I do.。
When I'm really struggling,。
when I'm feeling very sorry for myself,。
I actually find it very hard to talk to God.。
Because maybe there's something about us,。
the way we're built in terms of how we see God.。
We're like, we can only go to God when we are fully right,。
when things are going well.。
We need to present ourselves the best we can to God.。
But then here, it says, actually, no, no, no, no, no.。
You go to God in those moments, when you are the worst.。
God meets you at your ground zero.。
But sometimes we forget that, right?。
But we see it happen time and time again.。
The Psalmist, David, says,。
"God, how long are you going to forsake me?。
"How are you going to forget me?"。
And he's constantly lashing out at God.。
But that's the relationship that the Bible tells us to have.。
And I don't know about you,。
but I feel as though many, many of us here,。
whenever we're upset, whenever we're distressed,。
whenever things aren't going our way,。
the first thing we do is bottle it up.。
We keep it inside.。
And sometimes we don't even have the words to say.。
When you tell me to go to God,。
I don't even know what to say to him.。
I'm so angry.。
I'm so anxious.。
I'm so stressed.。
I'm so depressed.。
I don't even know what to say.。
And actually, we see here that Hannah,。
she manages to get a few words out,。
but a lot of the time,。
she's only just praying in her heart.。
She's just on, you can imagine her.。
She's in the temple.。
She's on the floor, just weeping bitterly.。
But it reminds us, when we are filled with sorrow,。
when we are distressed, we should go to God.。
There's a verse in 1 Peter that's on the slides here。
that says, "Cast all your anxieties on him。
"because he cares for you."。
Do you genuinely cast your anxieties on him?。
Do you leave them with him?。
When you are at your lowest,。
instead of feeling sorry for yourself,。
or instead of going back to the same things。
where you find comfort in,。
do you think you'd have the strength。
to not stand up before God,。
but to bow down, even in tears,。
even weeping bitterly,。
are you able to do what Hannah does,。
to pray?。
Because that's the beginning.。
If you want to move from sorrow to joy,。
it starts with connecting with God.。
It starts with going to him with all your struggles,。
with all your anxieties,。
and speaking to him, and letting it all out.。
So, her sorrow leads to prayer.。
But then her prayer leads to surrender.。
And we carry on, verse 11,。
'cause we hear a little bit about what she prays about.。
And she says this, verse 11,。
"And she vowed a vow and said,。
"'O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed。
"'look on the affliction of your servant。
"'and remember me and not forget your servant,。
"'but will give to your servant a son,。
"'then I will give him to the Lord。
"'all the days of his life,。
"'and no razor shall touch his head.'"。
And that's all we really see.。
The rest of it, he said,。
Scripture tells us that she's only praying in her heart,。
her lips are moving, but we don't know what she's saying.。
So that's the only bit.。
So we can have a look a little bit。
at what she's saying there.。
"O Lord of hosts."。
Yahweh Sabioth is what the word is.。
It's basically, "O Lord of multitudes,。
"O Lord of armies, O Lord of nations."。
So she's appealing to God,。
and saying, "You're the only one。
"who can help me.。
"I want a kid, I want a son,。
"and I know that you are the one。
"who promised all of our people just multitudes.。
"O Lord of multitudes, can you remember me?。
"Can you look at me?。
"Can you remind me how much you care?"。
And then she does a strange thing.。
She says, "If you just give me a servant, a son,。
"then I will give him to the Lord。
"all the days of his life,。
"and no razor shall touch his head."。
Just give me a son, please.。
I'll give him back to you,。
and I promise to never cut his hair.。
Isn't that a bit weird?。
So a little bit of the context here is,。
there were 12 tribes of Israel, right?。
One of the tribes were very special.。
One of the tribes were actually。
almost designated to be full-time ministers,。
the Levites.。
So these guys, the tribe of Levi,。
the people there, wouldn't get any land.。
Their job was to serve in ministry。
to the other tribes,。
and they would basically be supported。
by the other tribes.。
Isn't that a little weird?。
But anyway, that's how you were in full-time ministry。
if you were born into a Levite family.。
But if you wanted to go into full-time ministry,。
and you were part of the other tribes,。
you could do something.。
You could commit to being a Nazirite.。
Samson was a Nazirite.。
That's why he couldn't cut his hair。
until he met Delilah and he screwed up his life.。
But that's Samson.。
So it's two things that you have to be。
in order to be a Nazirite,。
to be in full-time ministry if you're not a Levite.。
First, you're not allowed to cut your hair,。
and second, you're not allowed to drink strong wine.。
So those are two things.。
And then there are other things,。
but those are the two key ones。
that I'll just highlight today.。
So what she's saying is this.。
If you give me a son, I'll give him back to you,。
and he will serve you all the days of his life.。
And you see, serving in full-time ministry。
was not, hey, he can still come home。
and hang out with me,。
and I can still care for him.。
No, no, no.。
If she was to do this,。
she would say goodbye to him。
when he was three years old.。
And then she would give him off to the temple,。
and that would be it.。
And there's no WhatsApp, there's no FaceTime.。
Like, you give away your three-year-old,。
and then that's it.。
They're gone.。
Can you understand the gravity。
of what she did in that prayer,。
given what I just told you earlier。
about what it meant for a woman to have a baby?。
She's saying, if you would only give me a child,。
I will give him back to you,。
and I won't reap any of the benefits。
that a woman would have if she was to become a mother.。
When all the other mothers are hanging around。
outside school, picking up their kids,。
she won't be there.。
Her son wouldn't be there.。
When all the women are looking at their kids,。
growing strong, and joining to be part of the labour force,。
working the field, or even protecting their people,。
her son would not be there.。
She's basically giving up all the benefits。
and all the goals of having a kid.。
So basically, she's surrendering it all back to God.。
There would be no helping of the family's business.。
Economically, it wouldn't make any sense at all.。
Territorially, it wouldn't make sense.。
They wouldn't be able to help in any way.。
Yeah, here's the thing,。
'cause not only does she want a kid for an emotional reason,。
or an economical reason, or a territorial reason,。
she also wanted one for a theological reason.。
Why?。
Because the women of Israel knew about the promise。
that God made, saying that your nation is just gonna grow.。
So they knew that every time they could have a kid,。
they would be part of God's salvation plan.。
There would be something special。
that they would be part of.。
So you can see here, she was recognising in her prayer。
that it wasn't necessarily about what she wanted,。
but she was wanting to give it back to God.。
It reminds me of the Psalmist.。
In Psalm 37, it says, "Delight in the Lord,。
"and he will grant you the desires of your heart."。
It makes me think, when I pray to God,。
when I'm wanting something from him,。
when I'm praying, I'm literally just praying。
for him to give me that thing.。
I'm treating him very much like a vending machine.。
But is that the point of prayer?。
Is that what Hannah did here?。
Yes, she did want a child,。
but in her delight of the Lord,。
he then grants her the desires of her heart。
because she showed him that for her, it was still about him.。
And so what we see here then,。
that actually prayer shows what our heart is really about.。
If someone who doesn't know God or Christianity。
or church life or anything at all。
sat in your private prayers with God,。
what kind of image would they have of God?。
If they listened to your prayers。
about what you ask God for,。
and they were to draw a picture。
of who they thought God is based on your prayer,。
what kind of God would they come up with?。
It's an interesting question.。
And you see, Hannah's prayer here shows that。
it wasn't just, "Oh, just give it me.。
"I just want him for a little bit."。
She was willing to give it all to God.。
It's interesting.。
It's important for us to think about.。
Now, I've been in Hong Kong for two and a half years now。
with my family.。
It's crazy, right?。
It's been the most peaceful, tranquil time.。
I remember when we were first wrestling with God。
about coming to Hong Kong, and we were praying.。
We're like, "God, seriously,。
"do you really want us to do this?。
"To come from the UK to Hong Kong?。
"Everyone seems to be going in the opposite direction.。
"Why don't we, okay, you know what?。
"We'll pray about it.。
"You know, God, just, just, just, yeah,。
"just your will be done,。
"but it probably should be somewhere in the UK.。
"Oh, Toronto.。
"Toronto would be a good place.。
"The food there is just as good as Hong Kong,。
"but there's more space.。
"We wouldn't live in a box."。
And I found, halfway through my prayers,。
it was me asking God to grant me the desires of my heart.。
But that's not the point of prayer, right?。
The point of prayer is, can you get yourself to a point。
to surrender to God, like Hannah did, and say,。
"You know what?。
"This is what I want, but it's all for you.。
"Everything I have, I wanna give back to you."。
Her prayer leads her to surrender.。
How do you surrender yourself?。
As you pray, as you discern about the decisions。
in your life, the things that you want,。
the things that you want removed,。
is your prayer filled with surrender?。
Does your prayer truly reflect the nature of God?。
Sorrow leads to prayer.。
Prayer leads to surrender.。
And surrender leads to worship.。
And we carry on.。
So we see her praying this prayer, still weeping bitterly,。
and then she starts praying, and verse 12,。
I don't think they put this up here,。
she continues praying, Eli the priest sees her。
and observes her mouth, verse 13,。
"Hannah was speaking in her heart,。
"only her lips moved and her voice was not heard."。
And then verse 14, "And Eli says to her,。
"'How long will you go on being drunk?。
"'Put your wine away from you.'。
"But Hannah answered, 'No, my Lord,。
"'I am a woman troubled in spirit.。
"'I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink,。
"'but I've been pouring out my soul before the Lord.'"。
Verse 16, "Do not regard your servant as a worthless woman,。
"for all along I've been speaking out。
"of my great anxiety and vexation."。
So she's praying, and there's no words coming out her mouth,。
she's probably just a babbling mess.。
And the priest who's sitting beside is going,。
"What is wrong with you?。
"Just sort yourself out, stop drinking,。
"well, one, just get out and sort yourself out."。
But she's like, "No, that's not what I'm doing.。
"I am so distraught.。
"I am pouring out my soul to the Lord.。
"I've been filled with all this anxiety,。
"all this vexation, all this anger, this frustration."。
And Eli's like, "Oh, sorry, sorry,。
"I totally did not understand that,。
"I did not see that."。
And then he says, "Just go in peace,。
"and the God of Israel grant your petition。
"that you have made to him."。
He's not saying, "Hey, I prophetically claim,。
"proclaim that this prayer will be answered."。
No, he's just kind of saying, "Go in peace, God bless you."。
It's more like that.。
And then she says, verse 18,。
"And let your servant find favour in your eyes.。
"Then the woman," here's the key, verse 18,。
"Then the woman went her way and ate,。
"and her face was no longer sad."。
Her mindset changed before anything happened,。
before any circumstance changed.。
Isn't that weird?。
She went from not being able to eat。
and deeply distressed and weeping bitterly,。
to having a face that was no longer sad,。
and now she was willing to eat.。
What I see here is that the point of prayer。
is not to change your circumstance,。
not to grant you the wish, the desires of your heart,。
the point of prayer in this scenario is to change you.。
Hannah was changed simply because of the process。
of pouring out her soul to the Lord.。
Again, it's not about getting our wishes granted.。
This is not Will Smith in "Aladdin", the genie.。
God is not the genie.。
And if someone's listening to your prayers。
and thinking that God's just the genie,。
there's something very wrong.。
But I can tell you, sometimes my prayers,。
"God bless this food, thank you.。
"Can you make sure tomorrow is good?。
"Can you help it to stop raining?"。
And then it sounds like I'm praying to a genie.。
But here we see that through her prayer,。
Hannah is completely transformed.。
And it reminds me of this.。
As we evaluate our prayers,。
and maybe we're all thinking about our prayers now,。
is God truly the agenda in our prayers?。
Or do we have our own agenda。
and we're asking God to fulfil them?。
God, we want to do this, but God, can you help me get there?。
Rather than, "God, I want to get where you are."。
And it reminds me again, the psalmist just says this,。
and yet he's the one who's always pouring out, David.。
And he's saying, "Psalm 27, there's only one thing I ask,。
"and there's only one thing I seek,。
"that I would dwell in the presence of the Most High。
"all the days of my life.。
"That's the only thing.。
"May all my prayer requests revolve around that.。
"May everything I ask for from you, God,。
"be essentially about you."。
And so when we pray, do we have that?。
Do we have that surrender,。
and that ultimately leads us to worship?。
You see, after that, verse 19, I don't think it's on there,。
they rose, after she prays, and then she's willing to eat,。
and her face is no longer sad, verse 19,。
they rose early in the morning and worshipped before the Lord.。
That prayer that started with sorrow,。
that continued with surrender, ended up in worship.。
Because she prayed, because she poured out,。
because she spent time with the Most High God,。
it drove her to worship.。
And we're starting to see now,。
if we're wondering how do we get from sorrow to joy,。
we're starting to see the trail that needs to happen,。
the process that needs to happen.。
It's truly, "Your will be done,。
"not God, can you help my will be done?"。
I'm reminded of the Apostle Paul, Philippians, chapter four,。
says, "Don't be anxious about anything."。
Don't be anxious about anything,。
but in everything, by prayer and supplication,。
present your request to God.。
But I missed a word out there, with thanksgiving.。
So as we pray, it should lead us to worship,。
it should lead us to a point of gratitude,。
because it's only when we have gratitude。
do we truly know that we're not praying。
out of selfish desires.。
When we are able to be like,。
"God, I am so content in you, I am so thankful for you."。
And then you will go from being anxious。
to having this peace that transcends all understanding.。
Look at your prayer again, look at your prayers again.。
Does it lead you to a place of worship?。
Does it lead you, is it filled with gratitude?。
Is it filled with thanksgiving?。
Delight in the Lord,。
and He will grant you the desires of your heart.。
Brothers and sisters, I encourage you to pray,。
as you pray, even in your distress,。
it is still possible to count the blessings。
that God has given.。
It is still possible to be thankful,。
and I know it often doesn't feel like that,。
but it must be like that.。
Scripture tells us to rejoice,。
to rejoice always, continually,。
but that is so, so hard.。
We are a grumpy people, we like to complain, right?。
We love complaining,。
but Scripture tells us you've got to rejoice,。
and it is a choice to rejoice.。
You have to make that choice to do it.。
And finally, you will get to a point where your worship。
will then lead to joy.。
So then they go home, verse 20,。
"And in due time, Hannah conceived and bore a son,。
"and she called his name Samuel,。
"for she said, 'I have asked for him from the Lord.'"。
And then the story jumps a little bit,。
because from there, verse 21,。
"The man, Alkenah, and all his house went up to offer。
"to the Lord the yearly sacrifice to pay his vow."。
So this continues, this guy is a disciplined man,。
so he keeps going every year,。
but for the next two, three years,。
Hannah doesn't go with him,。
because now she has baby Samuel.。
And she tells him, "You guys go,。
"because I have to look after baby."。
That's number one, 'cause everyone knows。
how hard it is to travel with a baby.。
But also, I know that when the time is right,。
I have to take Samuel myself.。
When he's three years old, I'm gonna take him myself,。
and I'm gonna leave him there for the rest of his life.。
Verse 22, "But Hannah did not go up,。
"for she said to her husband,。
"'As soon as the child is weaned,。
"'I will bring him so that he may appear。
"'in the presence of the Lord and dwell there forever.'"。
Fast forward a little bit, verse 27,。
"For this child I prayed,。
"and the Lord has granted me my petition。
"that I made to him.。
"Therefore I have lent him to the Lord,。
"as long as he lives, he is lent to the Lord."。
So when he turns three, she goes with him.。
She travels and leaves him there.。
Every year, she does pop back。
and gives him some jackets to wear.。
That's what every mom does, (speaks in foreign language)。
and just wear more clothes.。
But that's it.。
Imagine how you're feeling if you're Hannah right now.。
You've gone through this whole journey,。
being provoked for years,。
not having a kid, finally having one.。
And then three years later, you give him away,。
and you go back to where you were.。
What would you be like if that happened to you?。
Let's say you were good enough。
to honour your commitment to God,。
and you still gave the child back.。
I don't think I, I mean, I think I would struggle.。
I'd be like, "Well, did I really say that?。
"Did I really promise that I'll give him back to you?。
"Did I sign a contract?。
"I don't think I signed a contract."。
And there wasn't a notary involved.。
But yet here we are, we see Hannah does it,。
and then she does the most radical thing again.。
After gaining her child and then losing her child,。
chapter two, and Hannah prayed.。
So after going through this whole journey。
and giving up this beloved boy to the ministry,。
instead of being heartbroken,。
instead of being frustrated,。
instead of being sad,。
all Scripture tells us here is, "And then she prayed."。
And it's through this prayer。
we get to see a little bit into her heart,。
and we get to understand a little bit.。
And this is where my final point is,。
where worship leads to joy,。
that she is genuinely in a place of joy.。
Chapter two, verse one, "And Hannah prayed and said,。
"My heart exalts in the Lord.。
"My horn is exalted in the Lord."。
Horn back then represented strength, it was strength.。
"My horn is exalted in the Lord.。
"My mouth provides my enemies。
"because I rejoice in your salvation."。
She says, "With all my heart, with all my mouth,。
"with all my strength, I praise the Lord.。
"I lift him up to you."。
Would you be doing that if you gave up your child?。
I don't think, I don't know, I think it would be hard.。
I don't think I would.。
Yet you see now, it's revealed that Hannah's heart。
was not idolising family.。
You see that she, the only God that she worshipped。
was God himself, and that she was willing。
to honour her commitment and give her son back.。
And then she goes through this,。
and we won't go through every verse,。
and this song that she sings, or this prayer that she prays。
has really a key theme here.。
And the key theme is this, man, God uses imperfect people。
to carry out his perfect plan.。
You know what, everything isn't quite as it seems.。
It seems as though the kingdom of heaven。
operates with some upside down values.。
It seems counterintuitive to how society operates right here.。
How, verse four, "The bows of the mighty are broken,。
"but the feeble bind on strength.。
"Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread,。
"but those who are hungry have ceased to hunger.。
"The baron has borne seven,。
"but she who has many children is forlorn.。
"The Lord kills and brings to life.。
"He brings down to Sheol and raises up.。
"The Lord makes poor and makes rich.。
"He brings low and He exalts.。
"He raises up the poor from the dust.。
"He lifts the needy from the ash heap。
"to make them sit with princes and inherit a seat of honour."。
She's saying there's something different about this God.。
He turns the world upside down.。
He used me.。
I could never have had a kid without God,。
and yet here He is.。
He used me somehow in my weakness to become His strength.。
In this whole ordeal, all she could think about was God,。
and all she could think about was how different He is。
to how the things are in this world.。
And you look at this prayer,。
and it reminds you of a very similar prayer。
many, many years later.。
Which prayer is that?。
Do we know?。
Similarly, again, a miracle conception.。
Many, many years later,。
Mary, the mother of Jesus, sings a very similar prayer.。
In fact, Mary's prayer is based on Hannah's one.。
And again, it's the same theme.。
If you look at it, if you go into the Gospels to look at it,。
Mary is praying about the same thing again,。
that the mighty will be brought down,。
that the humble will be exalted,。
that the world will be turned and flipped upside down.。
And similarly, another miracle conception happens.。
But before I talk about it,。
you carry on towards the end of Hannah's song.。
Chapter two, verse 10.。
The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken.。
This is where she finishes her prayer.。
The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces.。
Against them He will thunder in heaven.。
The Lord will judge the ends of the earth.。
He will, here's the key word,。
He will give strength to His King。
and exalt the horn of His anointed.。
Sounds typical of a Psalm that we kind of read。
and sing right.。
But do you not realise that at this point,。
there was no King?。
They were ruled by judges.。
In fact, her son will be the last judge.。
But what King was she talking about?。
She would have had no way of knowing.。
So why is she talking about a King?。
Verse 10 here again,。
and He will give strength to His King.。
Of course, Samuel, baby Samuel,。
ends up growing up to be prophet Samuel。
and ends up anointing Israel's first King Saul.。
So you can see that God is using her。
for a much bigger plan.。
And then the final words,。
and exalt the horn of His anointed.。
The word anointed there means Messiah.。
In this humble prayer from this woman。
that was used by the Lord,。
she points to a Messiah, the anointed one.。
The one who would turn and preach。
about a kingdom of heaven that is upside down。
in His values.。
You look at the Beatitudes,。
you look at His sermon.。
He's always talking about it,。
blessed are the poor,。
blessed are the meek.。
They're the ones that are going to inherit the earth.。
He preached this upside down kingdom。
that Hannah prayed about.。
He preached,。
He says, "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me。
to proclaim good news to the poor,。
to the oppressed, to the captives, to the blind."。
He preached that same message,。
but it wasn't just that,。
He also lived it.。
In the cross, He turns the world upside down.。
And He showed us that。
that's how you go from sorrow to joy.。
He Himself was very distressed at certain points.。
He Himself was filled with sorrow.。
Think about the moment when He was in the garden。
and He's just, "God, you know what?。
This is Jesus.。
If you would just remove this cup of suffering from me,。
do it, please."。
He's bleeding, sweating blood.。
And in His sorrow, what does He do?。
He goes to God.。
He talks to God.。
His sorrow leads Him to prayer.。
And then His prayer leads Him to surrender.。
Jesus Christ Himself then said,。
"You know what?。
Remove this cup of suffering,。
but may your will be done and not mine."。
You see Him take it to God,。
but then ultimately surrender to God.。
And He Himself gets to that point。
where He surrenders and sacrifices Himself.。
And He, in this prayer here, verse six,。
"The Lord kills and brings to life.。
He brings down to Sheol."。
Sheol is a place where the dead lived.。
So He Himself goes down to Sheol,。
but then He is raised up.。
He is the one who defeats death.。
He is the one that ushers in this upside down kingdom.。
And He's the one here who's wanting us。
to turn our lives upside down.。
So that we, when we are faced with sorrow,。
when we are walking through the valley。
of the shadow of death,。
we will fear no evil because He is with us,。
because He did it.。
He overcame it.。
So you see the story of Hannah here points us to Jesus.。
The story of Hannah here,。
where we see her go from sorrow to joy,。
points us to Jesus because that's exactly what He did.。
In fact, all the women in the Old Testament。
that we've been going through tell us one thing,。
that this Messiah, this Jesus, this King,。
wasn't just the anointed King,。
but He was also a suffering servant.。
That He also went from here to here.。
And I'll finish with this verse here from John 16.。
John 16, verse 22.。
Jesus Himself says this.。
"So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again,。
"and your hearts will rejoice,。
"and no one will take your joy from you.。
"In that day you will ask nothing of Me.。
"Truly, truly, I say to you,。
"whatever you ask of the Father in My name,。
"He will give it to you."。
You have sorrow now, brothers and sisters.。
Maybe you are walking right in it and right through it.。
But Jesus Himself is saying,。
"But I will see you again.。
"And when I see you, your hearts will rejoice,。
"because by then everything will be made new,。
"because by then every tear will be wiped away,。
"because by then there will be no more pain.。
"There will be no more other ways。
"to deal with your distress and sorrow,。
"because by then it will all be gone.。
"And I will bring all things to restoration.。
"By then, in that day you will ask nothing of Me,。
"because there will be nothing that you need.。
"Your prayers won't be about。
"asking a genie for different things.。
"Your prayer will just be basking in His glory。
"and in His beauty.。
"And you will have the one thing that you asked,。
"for the one thing that you've seeked,。
"to be able to be with Him."。
So I just want to finish with this as an encouragement,。
and we'll ask the band to come back up now.。
I don't know where you're at,。
and I can only imagine that everyone has their struggles,。
but I want us just to spend a few minutes now。
just to pray.。
So if we would just, maybe bow our heads。
and close our eyes.。
(audience laughing)。
And as we reflect on this story of Hannah,。
where she struggled through so much,。
where she herself walked through。
the valley of the shadow of death,。
that she rose and took it to the Lord.。
And so I'm praying here,。
if there is anyone who is in that place of deep sorrow,。
that deep distress,。
I encourage you to rely on the things of this world no more.。
Don't go back to the same things that you think will help.。
Go to Him.。
And pour out your soul to Him.。
And I pray that that sorrow that leads you to prayer。
will bring you to a place of surrender.。
That you would know that He is the only one。
who can satisfy the yearnings and the cravings of your heart.。
And I pray that He'd give you the strength。
to find delight in Him,。
to be filled with thanksgiving and gratitude.。
(gentle music)。
And that surrender will lead you to a place of peace。
and a place of worship.。
So that no matter what happens,。
whether your circumstance changes or not,。
you will be able to worship and you will be filled with joy.。
And may you be given the chance。
to meet Jesus face to face even now.。
And when you see Him,。
everything else will pale in comparison.。
(gentle music)。
Because He is your shepherd and you shall not want.。
So even though you walk through the valley。
of the shadow of death,。
you will fear no evil for He is with you.。
So Father, I pray that you would instill in all of us。
a spirit of worship,。
despite and regardless of our circumstances,。
that we would be able to praise you。
even in the midst of the storm,。
and that you would grant us peace。
and you would grant us joy.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
