(audience applauding)。
- It's so good to be back with you guys.。
And as you know, I was in Singapore.。
And for the beginning, I was with Pastor John。
at Movement Day Conference.。
Have anybody heard of Movement Day?。
Raise your hand.。
Yes, several of you.。
And we got to see what God was doing。
in different cities in Southeast Asia.。
So in Jakarta, in India, half the conference was Indian.。
They're really into Movement Day.。
Jakarta, Singapore, Hong Kong, Pastor John,。
Pastor Andrew Gardner was there.。
And they were talking about how they were reaching。
the next generation.。
And it was an awesome time at Movement Day Conference。
in Singapore.。
And then we also had a conference with Winnie。
and the Explorer pastors, the Explorer team there.。
And we went to Heart of God Church。
and just seeing how they do youth ministry.。
This church is full of thousands of young people。
and young people from six or seven are taking photos.。
People, teens from 14 to 15 are starting。
to lead other Connect group leaders.。
And it's amazing to see this youth church。
and really learn from them and see how we can grow also。
as a church to grow our youth and help them to grow.。
Well, while I was in Singapore,。
who's been to Singapore before?。
Who's been to Singapore?。
There's a lot of you.。
There's a lot of churches there as well.。
And we're talking about First Corinthians,。
which is also another very important church.。
And while I was there, we heard a couple talks about this.。
And I also was having conversations。
with different Christians who were in Singapore.。
And a big topic that came up was different scandals。
that came into the church.。
And one of the biggest scandals that happened in the church,。
as you see in the next slide, was City Harvest Church.。
City Harvest Church is one of the biggest churches。
in Singapore or was, I think they had like 10,000 people。
or something like that.。
And what happened was the senior pastor,。
his name was Kong He, he had a wife that was a singer, okay?。
Or who was becoming a singer or something like that.。
And there was some sort of scandal where he took money。
from the church and he tried to use it to support his wife。
in her singing career.。
And that blew up, right?。
And not only was the senior pastor involved,。
you see all these others were also involved, right?。
Not only was a senior pastor involved,。
another founding member was involved,。
the secretary of the church, board members,。
financial people in the church were also involved。
and they were all convicted.。
And so this church was struggling。
because of their leadership.。
Their leadership was struggling with greed。
and mishandling of money.。
And I was also talking with other people。
and some of them went to another church,。
I think it's called New Creation Church,。
as you see in the next slide, Joseph Prince,。
anybody heard of Joseph Prince?。
And he has a lot of people at his churches。
with a lot of different locations.。
And I was talking with one of the people。
that went to the church and he was saying,。
"Oh yeah, this church, it's very interesting.。
"It's very rich, they have their own mega mall building."。
They own the mall, right?。
"Very rich, they invite Hillsong。
"and the biggest stars to come."。
But they're like, "Ah, his message,。
"a little bit suspicious at times,。
"a little bit too much prosperity。
"and not talking about sin,。
"focusing on grace and blessing,。
"but doesn't talk about really。
"that we need to repent and confess."。
And so this church, it's doing well,。
but there's also problems.。
And this is a theological issue within the church.。
As we're talking about the Corinthian Church,。
it also had its own problems.。
And I identified three problems。
that were really big in the Corinthian Church.。
And the first one is individualism.。
The second is idolatry.。
And the third is immorality, immorality.。
And I've actually been to Corinth.。
Has anybody been to Corinth?。
As you see in the next slide, I've been to Corinth.。
This is my photo, I didn't take it from the internet.。
And it's a lovely place.。
There's a lot of rocks on top of a lot of other rocks.。
And some of these rocks have been shaped。
and it's quite beautiful.。
But when you go to a lot of these ruins,。
former cities, Ephesus,。
at least, Leoludicea, Philadelphia,。
you know, there's a lot of rocks.。
But if you just look at rocks, there's no meaning, right?。
You gotta sort of understand, oh, this was where。
the temple was, oh, this was where the main street was.。
And so, Pastor Michelle did a introduction.。
I'm just gonna do a brief understanding。
of where Corinth was.。
As you see in the next slide, Corinth was in,。
it's in modern day Greece, right?。
And it's in between two pieces of land.。
It's called the isthmus, right?。
The upper part and the lower part of Greece.。
And it's also separated by two ports,。
two bodies of water.。
As you see in the next slide,。
ships would come in from one side,。
you know, from Israel, from Egypt,。
they would deliver different trades.。
And where do you think they were going?。
Where do you think they were going?。
To modern day Rome, right?。
Rome was the capital.。
And so, it was dangerous to go around.。
It was dangerous to go around。
because there were many storms.。
And so, what people usually did,。
what ships would usually do,。
is they would go from Egypt or Israel or wherever。
towards Corinth, and then they would drag their boat。
over to the other side.。
It's around four miles.。
Or they would drag all their, you know,。
the things they were carrying to the other side。
and transport it to another ship。
so that that ship would go to Rome instead.。
And so, because it became a port city,。
it became very wealthy.。
It charged a lot, you know, for people to stay there.。
And if boats were going around。
and the crew was, some of the crew or the merchandise。
was staying in Corinth,。
you would charge money there, right?。
It was charging taxes and money for people coming in。
and out of their ports.。
It was big on trade.。
A lot of people from different kinds of backgrounds。
were coming.。
It was a cosmological, not cosmological,。
cosmetologen, is it comatol?。
Cosmopolitan, sorry.。
Sorry, my bad.。
Yeah, it was that kind of city.。
And it became very wealthy.。
It became very wealthy.。
And it was only years later that, you know,。
some people, some of the rulers there。
dug out a canal, as you see in the next photo,。
dug out a canal for the boats to go over。
so that ships could pass more easily.。
Another reason that Corinth became very rich。
was the Isthmian Games, Isthmian Games.。
Now, the World Cup is coming out.。
You know, that's very popular.。
The Olympics is very popular.。
The Olympics was more popular than the Isthmian Games.。
The Isthmian Games happened every other year,。
similar to the games in the Olympics.。
You know, I think back then they did wrestling and javelin.。
They also did other things, like singing competitions。
or I think dramas as well, something like that.。
So the Isthmian Games would be like our modern day,。
you know, the Asian Games or something like that,。
you know, prep games to prep people。
for the Olympic Games.。
And so if people came for these games,。
they would need places to stay.。
They would spend money, right?。
If people came and delivered their goods。
and their goods were passing through,。
people, boatmen, would need to stay.。
And so that is why the city became more and more wealthy.。
And the people in the church,。
some of them became more and more wealthy.。
And so individualism started to become a problem.。
And what do I mean by individualism?。
It's more like, oh, I am of a certain class.。
I'm of a certain standard.。
And if you don't meet that standard,。
well then, you know, you're not really in my crew, right?。
And that causes divisions.。
And we see that in 1 Corinthians 1.。
And it says here, let's read together, one, two, three.。
I appeal to you, brothers and sisters.。
[INAUDIBLE]。
[INAUDIBLE]。
So Paul starts this letter in chapter one,。
informing them that he's heard。
that there are people who say, I follow this person.。
I follow Paul. I follow Peter. I follow Apollo, right?。
I follow Christ.。
And that was because also that society,。
back then in Roman society,。
you were either a free or a slave, free or slave.。
As you see in the next slide,。
there were different classes of people.。
There was the upper class, right?。
The emperors, the senators, the aristocrats,。
you know, those who could work,。
and those who were of the lower class,。
foreigners, slaves, gladiators.。
They were of a different class.。
It was a big segregation in the Roman culture.。
And because of that,。
a lot of the people also incorporated that into their church.。
And so they started separating themselves。
from each other, right?。
Oh, I follow Paul. Paul's done this.。
He started churches here, here, here.。
My Paul is better than your Peter, right?。
And that became a problem.。
They were quarreling.。
And Paul continues here,。
and he says in 1 Corinthians chapter three,。
you are still worldly,。
for since there is jealousy and quarreling among you,。
are you not worldly?。
Are you not acting like mere humans?。
For the one says, I follow Paul, I follow Apollos.。
Paul was saying, I fed you first with milk,。
but now you are older,。
and you should be eating solid food.。
But now you are still worldly.。
You are still immature,。
because there's quarreling and jealousy among you.。
This church was young.。
It was only around three years old,。
according to some of the commentators.。
All right, so young Christians, right?。
A lot of them are,。
probably all of them are first generation Christians, right?。
And they grew up with this culture,。
being in the Roman culture of individualism, of classes.。
And so that started to flow within the churches.。
And Paul's response to this was, what did he say?。
He says this,。
"Only servants though, who you came to believe."。
These people are only servants who you came to believe.。
"As the Lord has assigned each of them to you, to his task.。
"I planted the seed, Apollos watered it,。
"but God has made it grow."。
Why are you making a big deal of who you are following?。
All these people, Paul, Peter, Apollo,。
they're all just servants of the Lord.。
All of them are just teaching about Jesus Christ ultimately,。
who you are ultimately following.。
God has assigned these servants to help you to grow.。
We should not be focusing on the servants,。
but on Jesus Christ himself.。
This was the first sign of quarreling。
and individualism and division within the church.。
The second place that we see this。
is in the next passage that we read in chapter 11.。
Let's read this together, one, two, three.。
In the first place.。
(congregation chattering)。
"No doubt there have to be differences among you。
"to show which of you have God's approval.。
"So then, when you come together,。
"it is not the Lord's Supper you eat.。
"For when you are eating, some of you go ahead。
"with your own private suppers.。
"As a result, one person remains hungry。
"and another gets drunk.。
"So then, my brothers, sisters,。
"when you gather to eat, you should all eat together.。
"Anyone who is hungry should eat something at home。
"so that when you meet together,。
"it may not result in judgment."。
Who's been to a potluck before?。
When you go to a potluck, what is the thinking process?。
You think about what to bring, right?。
Now, some of you, okay, let's admit it, right?。
Who are you, who of you are very generous。
and are gonna bring more?。
Raise your hand.。
Yeah, Charles, yeah, good, Anthony.。
Okay, who is very stingy and they'll be like,。
"I'm just gonna bring the least that I can to get by."。
Who wants to admit it?。
Nobody wants to admit it, eh?。
These are the people, me?。
(laughing)。
I think Paul is saying anyone who is hungry。
should eat at home first.。
So I think he was talking to me.。
So I'll eat before I come to your next。
home invited dinners, okay?。
Okay, I'm sorry, forgive me.。
(laughing)。
So when you go to a potluck,。
you think about, oh, who's hosting, right?。
If it is Agnes and Vincent hosting,。
oh, I know they're generous.。
They're gonna make lots of portions.。
Maybe I'll just bring something small, right?。
Maybe that's what you're thinking.。
Okay, maybe you're like Auntie Jackie as well.。
I like to cook up something as well。
or get my helper to cook up something.。
Okay, you cook, okay, sorry, you cook.。
And so she's gonna bring a lot of food as well, right?。
But there's those who are very stingy, right?。
That who don't bring anything, right?。
And so it causes some sort of division。
or quarreling amongst them.。
Now back then, they would mix some of these dinners。
with their pagan dinners or banquets, right?。
That's why Paul is saying,。
some of you are getting drunk, right?。
Can you imagine, you know, having a Christmas party。
at church and people are getting drunk?。
You know, that would not happen here, right?。
But back then in the church,。
they had the Lord's Supper and that was combined。
with some of the dinners that they were having。
and banquets that they were having。
and a lot of them were pagan。
and a lot of them would get drunk。
because they were sort of still young believers.。
And so what was happening was there were rich people。
and those who were getting richer。
'cause it was a port city, right?。
A wealthy city, a lot of trade.。
Some of them were getting wealthier and wealthier。
and they were starting to segregate themselves。
from those who were poor.。
Maybe the wealthy were like,。
oh, we're gonna have our own dinner here.。
This is the wealthy dinner.。
And for those who are less wealthy,。
maybe they can just share among themselves.。
And that caused what Paul said was divisions among you.。
Divisions among you.。
And food can be a sensitive topic at church.。
Food can be sensitive topic sometimes.。
Well, maybe not for Auntie Jackie.。
She's giving a little bit.。
Sometimes food can be a sensitive topic, all right?。
And so it was at this church as well.。
For example, if we have Alpha, right?。
And we used to have Alpha dinners.。
This was before COVID and we would have。
just all these foods lined up, right?。
And some people would take plates full of food, right?。
A mountain full of food, right?。
Have you ever met anybody like that?。
They would take a mountain of food, right?。
And it was not me.。
It was not me, okay?。
I'm not condemning myself.。
It was not me.。
So, you know, food was a sensitive topic.。
So we're like, hey, we know that you can be very hungry,。
that maybe you can save some food and then afterwards,。
once everybody's gotten enough food,。
then you can take your share, right?。
Food can be a sensitive topic.。
You know, I've been here, literally been here.。
And so what about us?。
You know, back then, individualism, classes。
were a big thing, wealthy and the rich.。
Back then, Jews and Gentiles, wise and fools,。
noble birth and not noble birth, that was a big thing.。
What about us at our church?。
You know, sometimes I hear the Explorer kids,。
they're like, oh, he goes to this school, you know,。
it's a really good school, right?。
Or, oh, they just go to local school, right?。
Sometimes we talk about it, right?。
We talk about it, but, you know,。
it doesn't mean that in our Explorer groups,。
it doesn't mean we segregate people.。
Oh, they go to bad schools.。
Don't, don't, don't let them have their own group.。
We don't do that, we don't do that.。
We're one body of Christ.。
Yes, you know, we'll have some downfalls。
and mistakes here and there,。
but for the most part, we are showing unity.。
It doesn't matter what school you go to.。
It could be a very expensive school,。
it could be a free school,。
we still accept you in Explorer, right, Winnie?。
Yes, of course, okay, very enthusiastically.。
So individualism, the different classes,。
led to division.。
And what was Paul's response?。
Well, we see that Paul's response was,。
don't follow the leader.。
Don't only just follow the leader,。
follow the Lord, right?。
The Lord is ultimately the person。
who has placed those leaders to help you to grow。
in your church.。
And so don't focus on Peter, Paul, Apollo.。
Focus only on what God has done.。
In Ephesians chapter two, it says this,。
"But now in Christ, you who were once far away。
"have been brought near by the blood of Christ.。
"For he himself is our peace,。
"who has made the two groups one,。
"and has destroyed the barrier,。
"dividing the wall of hostility."。
Christ died for us.。
There's no longer Jew or Gentile,。
but we are one body, family of Christ.。
Jesus has brought unity through the cross.。
And so that was his message to the Corinthian church.。
And it's a message to us today.。
Yes, you know, we're known to be a rich church, right?。
For some of you who didn't know.。
(congregation laughing)。
We're known, or our reputation is,。
oh, there might be a lot of people of high positions。
in this church as well.。
Yes.。
But I don't see us dividing, you know, fellowships.。
Are we dividing fellowships?。
Oh, this is the low paying grade fellowship.。
This is the high paying grade.。
We don't do that.。
We don't do that because we believe in this,。
that Jesus has brought unity through the cross.。
And ultimately the money comes from who anyways?。
Comes from God.。
It comes, it goes, blessed be the name of the Lord.。
So individualism was the first thing that they faced,。
first problem that they faced.。
The second problem that they faced was idolatry.。
Idolatry.。
Corinth became a hub for religious activity as well, okay?。
Religious activity from all over the world.。
And especially they had different temples。
to different Greek and Roman gods.。
Aphrodite is the God of love.。
Poseidon, they especially focused on Poseidon as well。
because he was the God of the sea.。
And so because Corinth was between two seaports,。
they especially focused and paid tribute to Poseidon.。
Apollos was the God of a lot of things.。
Hermes, Venus.。
And you remember the God, the statue to worship。
the gods who are unknown or all the gods?。
It was also here in Corinth.。
Let's read chapter 10 together.。
One, two, three.。
For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers,。
that our fathers were all under the cloud。
and all passed through the sea。
and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea。
and all ate the same spiritual food。
and all drank from the same spiritual drink.。
For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them。
and the rock was Christ.。
Nevertheless, the most of the God was not pleased。
for they were overthrown in the wilderness.。
Verse six.。
Now these things took place as an example for us。
that we might not desire evil as they did.。
Do not be idolaters as some of them were.。
As it is written,。
the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.。
We should not commit sexual immorality。
as some of them did.。
And in the day, 23,000 of them died.。
We should not, Christ, for some of them did。
and were killed by snakes.。
Therefore, my beloved, flee idolatry.。
All right.。
What is Paul talking about here in chapter 10?。
He's talking about the Israelites.。
The Israelites fled and had the Exodus。
from Egypt.。
And as you see in the next slide,。
after they crossed the Red Sea,。
God sent what?。
God sent by day the cloud, the pillar of cloud, right?。
Because in the desert, is there any shade in the desert?。
Not much desert.。
Has anybody been to a desert before?。
Yeah, one person.。
Two, thank you.。
Three, okay.。
In the desert, there's no trees, right?。
And so what, and it can get very hot, right?。
If the sun is burning.。
And so God sent a pillar of cloud by the day.。
So nice of the Lord, right?。
And at night, has anybody been to the desert at night?。
Yeah, how was it at night?。
It was dark, it was cold, right?。
And so God gave a pillar of fire at night.。
Wow, they could warm up.。
They could see where they're going.。
God is so good.。
God provided everything they needed.。
God provided what from the sky for them to eat.。
What did they provide?。
Manna, bread from heaven, right?。
But the problem was, in verse six, Paul says this,。
"Now these things took place as an example for us,。
"that we might not desire evil as they did。
"or lust as they did."。
What did Israel lust after?。
God took care of all of them.。
Provided cloud, provided the fire.。
God provided manna, but what, they were not satisfied.。
What did they want?。
They wanted meat.。
Who's a meat lover here?。
Yeah, you guys are all guilty, I'm joking.。
(audience laughing)。
God provided quail, I think it was quail, for them.。
And it flew around them and they could just eat it, right?。
They were not satisfied with what the Lord had given them.。
They lusted after meat.。
And not only did they lust after meat, what did they do?。
They had a golden calf, right?。
They wanted something physical.。
Oh, we haven't seen God for days.。
Oh, we haven't seen Moses for days.。
I don't know where they are.。
They're up in Mount Sinai, worshiping God.。
We can't see them anymore.。
We want something that we could physically see and worship,。
just like the other nations.。
And they had a golden calf and they worshiped it.。
And that's why Paul quotes here,。
"The people sat down and eat and drank and rose up to play."。
They started to incorporate idolatry into their worship.。
The Corinthian church was also dealing with idolatry。
and they were also dealing with meat.。
Where would they get their meat?。
A lot of them got their meat sacrificed to idols, okay?。
They ate meat that were sacrificed to idols。
and Paul specifically spends some chapters。
to talk about this, how it is affecting their faith,。
affecting their church.。
And so we see a comparison between Israel and Corinth.。
God provided manna and deliverance for Israel.。
God also provided wealth and prosperity。
for the city in Corinth and this church was also prospering.。
Israel drank from the rock, which is Jesus Christ.。
Corinth has been saved by the rock of salvation, Jesus Christ.。
The problem with Israel was they lusted after flesh,。
meat, fleshly desires.。
Corinth also desired meat sacrificed to idols.。
They fell into idolatry. Israel fell into idolatry.。
Corinth was falling into idolatry.。
They were incorporating the different gods。
and the different worships of those gods into the church。
and meat sacrificed to idols was being eaten。
by some of them in the church as well.。
They mixed idolatry into God's worship。
and ultimately there was punishment.。
Idolatry leads ultimately to death, spiritual death.。
And God punished them.。
How many did he say died in the desert?。
23,000 of them died.。
How come?。
They were blessed by God.。
God provided for them.。
How come they died?。
Because they did not obey the Lord.。
They followed their flesh.。
They followed idols.。
And that was Paul's warning to the church in Corinth.。
God has blessed you.。
God has blessed this city.。
But you must be careful to flee from idolatry。
because idolatry will lead to spiritual death.。
What about us?。
What about us?。
What are some of the idols that are in Hong Kong?。
Big idols?。
Money?。
Mirror? Oh, mirror.。
Yeah, mirror. Yeah.。
We won't be singing mirror.。
I don't think our worship team will be singing mirror anytime soon.。
Greed is a big one.。
Okay, Rolex, we're getting very specific.。
Rolex.。
It's not wrong to buy a Rolex.。
But okay, in general, greed, money, right?。
Fame or status, right?。
These things are very big idols in our city.。
And so we must be careful not to make these things。
idols in our lives and also in our churches.。
And so that is a warning to us.。
And I looked up some things.。
One commentary had this, "Signs our church has fallen to the world.。
"Teaching the Bible is not inspired and inerrant."。
Do we teach that the Bible is not inspired and inerrant?。
Do we teach that?。
No, we don't. No, we don't.。
Somebody might have been confused.。
Okay?。
A sign that a church has fallen is that we start teaching。
that there is more than one way to God besides Jesus.。
Do we teach that there is more than one way?。
No, we don't.。
There's only one way.。
The way, the truth, and the life.。
And He is Jesus.。
Being embarrassed to say that Jesus is the only way to salvation.。
Are we embarrassed?。
No, we are not embarrassed.。
Teaching that there's no absolute right or wrong.。
Does our church say that there's no absolute right or wrong?。
If you feel it's okay for you, then it's okay for you.。
Do we teach that?。
We do not.。
We believe that the moral compass is God.。
And He has taught us through the Bible.。
He teaches us through the Bible what is absolutely right and wrong.。
He is the moral law maker.。
Condemning the society of sins.。
Condemning the society of sins.。
Not condemning the society of sins.。
Is another sign that the church has fallen to the world.。
I think we're okay.。
Let's stay strong and focused on the Lord.。
Individualism.。
Idolatry.。
And the third thing that this church was facing was immorality.。
Sexual immorality.。
Now, as you see the next slide, the temple of love, of Aphrodite's,。
was actually on the mountain.。
So Corinth was split into two.。
Sort of two places, right?。
There was Corinth, the main city here.。
And then there was the Acro-Corinth, which is the upper Corinth.。
And if the city was attacked, they could easily abandon the city。
and flee to the mountains where it was safer and easier to defend.。
And on top of the mountain, well, on top of the mountain,。
there was a temple of Aphrodite's.。
And that was the temple of, do you guys know?。
Of love, okay?。
And it was said that there was over a thousand prostitutes。
where you could go and pay tribute and offer yourselves to this God.。
And so the word Corinthentize, I'm sorry, I'm saying it wrong,。
but it became synonymous with sexual immorality.。
This city became the Las Vegas of its day.。
What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas, right?。
You don't say this about Ocean Park, right?。
I hope not.。
Corinth became a center for sexual immorality.。
People, especially who were traveling, had nothing to do,。
didn't have to go home, didn't have responsibilities.。
They were free. Let's have night of fun and party.。
Let's go meet some people.。
And these prostitutes, it was said that they would come down。
at night from the temple into the city to seek people。
who wanted to also pay tribute.。
Corinthian church was also dealing with this.。
Let's read together chapter six.。
We'll read some of it.。
One, two, three.。
"No, you yourselves."。
[audience talking]。
"Adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves,。
nor coveters, nor drunkards, nor revealers, nor extortioners。
will inherit the kingdom of God.。
And such were some of you, but you were washed,。
but you were sanctified, but you were justified。
in the name of the Lord Jesus, in the spirit of God."。
Some of them thought, "Oh, I've been cleansed in the inside。
by the Lord Jesus.。
So the things I commit outside the body, it doesn't matter."。
That was some of the thinking.。
And Paul says that in chapter six.。
The body, however, is not meant for sexual immorality,。
but for the Lord.。
Sexual immorality, the definition of that。
is sex outside of marriage.。
God has gifted humanity with sex,。
but within the confines of marriage.。
And anything outside of that is sexual immorality.。
And so the Corinthians were sometimes thinking this.。
"Oh, I've been saved, my inner self.。
You know, God has saved my soul.。
That's all that matters.。
The things I commit on the outside of my body,。
it doesn't matter."。
No, Paul says, your body is the temple of God.。
When you do these things to your body, it defiles your body.。
You become impure.。
And so immorality, sexual immorality,。
leads to defilement, leads to defilement.。
And this was one of the things。
that the Corinthian church dealt with,。
because that was their culture.。
It was a big thing back then.。
And so what about us?。
Maybe we have impurity of our speech.。
Maybe we're gossiping,。
maybe we're talking down on people.。
Maybe we have impurity of conduct.。
We don't show love.。
Instead, we're showing hatred.。
Maybe in our secret life,。
we're falling into sexual immorality.。
And thank God,。
our church does not practise sexual immorality at church.。
I think that's some of the things。
that they were dealing with.。
Some of the brothers in the church,。
some of them married their father's wife.。
That was something that Paul specifically mentioned.。
Don't associate with these people, right?。
We need to rebuke them.。
And if they confess,。
help them to be restored in the faith.。
And so what about us?。
Maybe we have impurities of different kinds.。
It could be in our speech,。
it could be in our conduct,。
it could be in our private life.。
We need Jesus to cleanse us on a daily basis.。
So let's recap here.。
The first thing that they faced,。
individualism led to division in this church.。
Idolatry led to spiritual death,。
led them towards physical death and punishment as well。
from the Lord.。
Immorality leads to defilement.。
And what is the solution to this?。
Jesus is the solution.。
Jesus died for all of us.。
Jews, Gentiles, wealthy, poor, right?。
High positions, lowly positions.。
God has died for all of us.。
We are all joined together by the blood of Christ.。
The answer to idolatry。
is to let go of our idols。
and recognize that only Jesus saves.。
Our money is not going to save us.。
Going after relationship to relationship to relationship。
is not going to save us ultimately.。
Ultimately, it's a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ。
that saves us.。
Looking after status and looking good on the outside。
is not going to save us.。
Eventually, our bodies are gonna be old and wear away.。
Only Jesus saves.。
And the last thing is Jesus purifies.。
Jesus purifies.。
We need Jesus to purify our lips,。
the things that we talk about.。
We need Jesus to purify our actions.。
We need Jesus.。
We need Jesus to purify our minds.。
Humility.。
I have three H's to help us today as a church.。
Humility.。
We need to be humble like Jesus.。
How was Jesus humble?。
He left his throne in heaven to be with us, to be with you.。
He left his throne to be with us.。
Jesus was humble.。
The second thing we need to do is halt, stop.。
Stop the things that we're doing that are not pleasing to the Lord.。
What is becoming an idol in your life?。
Is it a person?。
Is it wealth?。
What is it?。
Sometimes it could be good things too, right?。
But if you start idolizing those good things,。
it's not a good thing.。
It becomes something of an idol.。
So we must be careful.。
The last thing is holiness.。
Be holy for our Lord is holy.。
Holy is being set apart from the world.。
The Lord wants our church to be humble.。
To stop any idols that come in our church。
and to be holy and pleasing to the Lord.。
We need Jesus.。
Let's just take a moment right now as the band comes up。
just to come before the Lord in repentance.。
What are some of the things that the Lord places on our heart。
that we've fallen short of the Lord?。
Maybe it's our speech.。
Our speech has been impure.。
Maybe it's our thoughts.。
Maybe we've looked down on others.。
And these things can affect our church as well.。
Let us flee from sin, flee from immorality,。
flee from idolatry, flee from the divisions。
caused by individualism.。
Let us take some time to repent before the Lord now and confess.。
And after a minute we will rise and respond in song.。
Let's take that moment now.。
