So a few weeks ago, I feel like I'm an elephant.。
And now I feel like a hippopotamus.。
But it's coming soon.。
I'm really glad to be here.。
And for those of you who have really good eyesight, you can look at my earring, it's。
all the way up here.。
Now whoever has missed the session, we're going to have more like women's gathering。
next year.。
Okay.。
And we would love for all of you to join in.。
And those who went, can you put your hands up?。
Yeah.。
Did you enjoy it?。
Yeah.。
Well, I only heard one person, but we were so concentrated making it.。
But anyways, it was a really nice girls time.。
So it allows me to relax and be able to share the word of God with you.。
So good evening.。
Now today we're going to share a topic called personal relationships.。
Now we have to admit, I mean, who thinks relationship is easy?。
It's probably one of the hardest things in life, right?。
I mean, we hear people like changing jobs.。
You know what most of the reasons are?。
It's not the job itself, right?。
It's the people, the coworker is the boss, right?。
And then we hear about family issues.。
It's about, oh, well, parents, right?。
Okay.。
Don't tell me about parents.。
Or like, if those are a Mary, like, oh, my husband or my wife.。
Okay.。
Maybe some of you haven't gone there yet.。
And then there are other issues that, you know, most of them, what does it surround。
us?。
It's not really the task, right?。
We can deal with the task, but people, you know, and it's always what other people, right?。
It's not, it's not you.。
I'm sure it's not you.。
So today we're going to look at like personal relationships.。
And I love the word personal because when we talk about relationships, there are many。
kinds, right?。
But as actually those that are the closest to us, that gets to us, the people that we。
need to see all the time, the people we need to interact all the time, acquaintances, it's。
okay because you know what?。
We don't really care about them anyways, right?。
But then for those, the closer they get to us, the more we have to interact with, the。
more personal it gets.。
Now today we're going to be looking at 1 Corinthians chapter six and seven, and we're going to look。
at what apostle Paul is telling us.。
Now we won't be going through all relationships, okay, because that would be too much for us。
to cover, but we are going to be looking at three types.。
Let's show it on here, the slides.。
So our relationships with other believers, okay?。
And then our relationship with our own body.。
Do you know you have a relationship with your own body?。
And then our marital relationship, or if we are not yet, or we like singleness, singleness.。
So we're going to look at those three kinds of relationships, not all of them.。
Now in chapter six, apostle Paul mentions that if there's any dispute, okay, within。
the Lord's people, so our believers, our fellow brothers and sisters, it says, well, I don't。
have the PowerPoint.。
I don't have the verses here for you, but I'm going to tell you, apostle Paul tells。
us not to bring those issues to non-believers to judge.。
And do you know why?。
Because in the future, you and I, believers, we're going to be judging the world and angels.。
And so he's saying, well, believers, you're going to be judging those people.。
So why are you going to non-believers for judgment?。
Don't do that.。
Go to believers if you have a dispute.。
And so we're going to start with verse seven in chapter six and look at it together.。
It says here, the very fact that you have lawsuits among you means that you have been。
completely defeated already.。
Why not rather be wronged?。
Why not rather be cheated?。
Instead, you yourselves cheat and do wrong.。
And you do this to your brothers and sisters.。
Or do you not know that wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom of God?。
Do not be deceived.。
Neither the sexually immoral adulterers nor men who have sex with men, nor thieves, nor。
the greedy, nor the drunkards, nor the slanders or swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.。
And that is what some of you were.。
But you were washed and you were sanctified and you were justified in the name of the。
Lord Jesus Christ and by the spirit of our God.。
So what it's telling us here is that at that time, there were some people who had lawsuits.。
And it's saying that if you do have that, you're completely defeated already.。
Instead, it says here that we should instead be wronged than rather be bringing a lawsuit。
up.。
Now we might be asking ourselves, well, what if that person has done a crime to us?。
Does it mean we don't even go to have it justified?。
It's not what it says here.。
It's not a crime.。
I do have to say, if there's a crime, please bring it out.。
And that person needs to...。
It needs to be brought to light.。
But what it's saying here is the word dispute.。
Merely meaning if you and I have a dispute, let's say in the past, there's a property。
line and it's supposed to end here.。
You're like, nope, should end over there.。
Or if there's an argument of some sort where you cannot find agreement on, those kinds。
of things, we need not go to someone who is a non-believer, but we should instead go to。
those who are believers, who have wise counsels.。
Now I also want to say, well, how many people of you want to bring your issues of your brother。
and sister to someone and create a lawsuit here?。
No?。
No one here?。
You sure?。
Okay, so we may ask ourselves, what does it have to do with us then?。
None of us wants to bring about a lawsuit.。
Well what we do see here is even though we might not go to the extent of a lawsuit, sometimes。
when people wrong us, what do we want to do?。
What do you want to do?。
Anyone?。
What if your brother or sister wronged you?。
What do you want to do?。
Huh?。
Revenge.。
Revenge, thank you.。
Everyone's very honest here, okay?。
The rest of us just keep it to ourselves.。
We might want to do something bad to them, right?。
So really I want to say, yes, if we look at it in the spectrum, if we go all the way,。
it's a lawsuit, but before that, we might want to take revenge.。
We might hold grudges against our brothers and sisters, but in here, if we notice, what。
is the attitude we should have?。
It says that we should not sin.。
We should not be the people that actually deceive.。
We should not be the people that cheat and do wrong, right?。
Instead, what it means is we should have the attitude, even if someone has wronged us during。
a dispute, we're to be at least okay with it if they will not apologize or if they will。
not do something about it.。
Now what is it?。
So for us, this brings us to our first point, that when our brother or sister sin against。
us, we need to be sinless.。
We need to be the one that's not doing bad, not evil for evil, but good for evil.。
Now I remember a time when I was at church, okay, because we're talking about brothers。
and sisters, right?。
And then this is the English ministry, and I wanted some help from another department,。
and I asked them, "Hey, can you help us out with this thing?"。
And I remember that person replying, "No, what does it have to do with us?"。
And I remember in my mind, like, "Hey, what do you mean?。
We're church.。
You need to help me.。
You need to help us."。
But anyways, there was nothing much I can do about it.。
I'm like, "Okay, fine."。
So a few days later, I don't know why once these things happen, it's always a few days。
later something else happens, right?。
So a few days later, I realized, "Oh, one of our district's people, we're volunteering。
and helping their district out."。
So inside of me, guess what I wanted to do?。
I wanted to go to that person and say, "Hey, you know what?。
You're busy that day.。
You don't have time to help them out."。
But I knew in my head, I'm like, "Oh, no, no, no, this isn't right.。
This isn't right and I shouldn't be doing this."。
So eventually I got a chance to talk to that person, the volunteer.。
And then he asked me, "Oh, should I help out on that side?"。
And I was like, "Eh."。
But I was like, "Hey, you know, just go with what's in your heart.。
If the Lord convicts you to help, you help."。
And actually, interestingly enough, the person in the other district a few months later has。
actually became my prayer buddy and has been extremely supportive of what we do and what。
I do and just have been walking alongside with me.。
And I realized, you know, looking back that, you know, if we actually have disunity, if。
we actually repay evil for evil or so in our eyes we think, what's that going to happen?。
Who's going to win at the end of the day?。
Is it going to be the church?。
No, it's just going to be the devil that wins.。
And I realized that even though this is talk about lawsuits, disputes, but more of it is。
talking about our attitude, is our way to deal with our brothers and sisters.。
We're going to have differences.。
We're going to have disputes.。
And there are times maybe people have constraints and they can't help you and vice versa.。
But we should always do good even though there might be things that we don't like.。
So for our brotherly relationship, I encourage all of us and myself also to be sinless and。
to do good.。
Now let's, and the reason that we do that is because in verse seven it says that we。
are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the spirit of our God.。
And that's the reason we do it because God has sanctified us, not because we want to。
be a good person, but because the spirit lives inside of us.。
And that's what we're connected to with our brothers and sisters.。
So as we read on in chapter six, we're going to look at another kind of relationship.。
Let's look at verse 12 to 17 together.。
Here Paul says, quoting someone else saying this, "I have the right," sorry, he's quoting。
himself saying this, "I have the right to do anything you say, but not everything is。
beneficial.。
I have the right to do anything, but I will not be mastered by anything.。
You say food for the stomach and the stomach for food, and God will destroy them both.。
The body, however, is not meant for sexual immorality, but for the Lord and the Lord。
for the body.。
By his power, God raised the Lord from the dead and he will raise us also.。
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ himself?。
Shall I then take the members of Christ and unite them with a prostitute?。
For do you not know that he who unites himself with a prostitute is one with her in body?。
For it is said, the two will become one flesh, but whoever is united with the Lord is one。
with him in spirit."。
So here what we see in these few verses is that Paul is telling us that we have the right。
to do anything.。
That is the freedom given to us.。
However, not everything is beneficial.。
So within all those things, the worst of the worst is what?。
Sexual immorality.。
And why?。
Because it is the only sin that is done within the body.。
Everything else is done outside.。
And so this personal relationship now that he's directing us to is actually the relationship。
that we have with our own body.。
And we know that a few weeks ago, Pastor Johnny shared with us that at that time, there were。
many pagan temples, right?。
And then what do they have outside?。
Prostitutes.。
Over like a thousand of them.。
And they would come down and look for people and just to have sexual relations with them.。
And they think that that's part of their worship to the fake gods.。
And so in that time, and also actually maybe around us now, a lot of people take it as。
a very, how should I say it?。
Not a very serious matter.。
And yet the Bible tells us that we are the temple of God.。
This is a very serious matter for us who are believers.。
And we must all the more guard it.。
And so in verse 18, it continues, it says, "Flee from sexual immoralities.。
All other sins a person commits are outside the body.。
But whoever sins sexually, sins against their own body.。
Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you。
have received from God?。
You are not your own."。
I want us to all say that.。
Can we say we are not our own together?。
One, two, three.。
We are not our own.。
You, all of us, were brought at a price.。
And therefore honor God with your bodies.。
Now you see, we, this body does not belong to us.。
We might think it does.。
I mean, obviously, if I wanted to raise my hand, I can do that.。
But really it doesn't belong to us anymore.。
If we were purchased by Jesus, who does it belong to?。
Jesus.。
Thank you.。
I thought that was a hard question.。
My goodness.。
So we don't belong to ourselves anymore, but we act as if we do.。
And that's really the problem.。
And this brings us to our second point, that our relationship concerning our body needs。
to be holy.。
It's not ours anymore.。
And you might be saying, "Well, you know, I'm not really having issues with sexual immorality.。
This section doesn't seem to be for me."。
But what it does say is your body doesn't belong to you.。
Except sexual immorality, again, is on that side of the spectrum where it's like the worst。
of the worst.。
But then there's all these other things that we need to have self-control over our bodies.。
Now I know we've got a few young people, not a few, actually a lot of young people here.。
Who's a young person here?。
Oh, there we go.。
Yeah.。
Pastor John was the first one to raise his hand.。
So woo-hoo.。
Now, who likes sleeping late here?。
Oh, there we go.。
Okay.。
Who thinks they should be sleeping late?。
Yeah, they still got three hands.。
And I mean, who exercises on a regular basis here?。
All right.。
Those who are very proud to put up their hands, you know?。
And the other ones are like, "Oh."。
I mean, really what this saying is our relationship with our bodies, yes, definitely sexual immorality。
is a no-no.。
But then there's all these other self-controlled disciplines that we must have.。
And a few weeks ago, I think I was guilty of it.。
I was talking to you about my candy crush issue, right?。
We've solved that.。
We've solved that over these few weeks.。
And so I was quite encouraged because that week, Bonnie, who went out with a whole bunch。
of you guys to dinner, purposely text me and said, "Hey, you know, that night we ordered。
extra vegetables."。
And I was like, "Awesome."。
I mean, even just doing that, you know?。
I mean, the Lord tells us what he wants us to do is to keep our body holy because the。
Holy Spirit lives inside of us.。
And we want our body to be able to serve God, right?。
To the best that we can.。
Now this isn't here to shame anybody.。
You know, I sleep late, you know, sometimes.。
Wait, when was the last time I exercised?。
Okay.。
Actually, not too long.。
I think a month ago, a month ago, I was still floating in the water.。
But you know what this is, is, you know, collectively, we're not here to condemn anybody, but we're。
saying, "Hey, let's take this into matter, to our heart.。
Let's try to progress, you know?。
Let's just try to do a little bit more because that honors God."。
And so our relationship with our body needs to be holy.。
So if you're sleeping at 1.59 a.m., try like 1.45, you know?。
All right.。
I hear you guys.。
The bar's too low now, right?。
Okay.。
Maybe like 12.30?。
Okay.。
Now it's like, "Oh, it's getting harder."。
All right.。
Well, whatever it is that you set, okay?。
Because when you do that, you know who gets the honor?。
God does.。
Because through the Holy Spirit helping you, you are actually making your body into a holy。
temple for God.。
So let us on, for those who love ice cream.。
All right, let's not go there.。
All right.。
Shall we keep going?。
All right.。
So as we read, we're going to look at the third kind of relationship, which is our marital。
status, rather that is married or single.。
This will be in the chapter seven.。
Chapter seven, we notice that Paul turns attention to married life, but it also tells us about。
being single.。
So Apostle Paul tells us that both husband and wife's body do not belong to themselves.。
So the very first thing is our body belongs to the Lord, but if you're married, then your。
body also belongs to your spouses.。
And sexual relations within that context is good and should not be deprived so that Satan。
will not tempt them.。
And so as we read on in verse, that's the verse one to seven, what I've just summarized.。
So now we're going to read eight and following a few verses together.。
So in verse eight, it says, "Now to the unmarried and the widows, I say this, it is good for。
them to stay unmarried as I do.。
But if they cannot control themselves, they should marry, for it is better to marry than。
to burn with passion."。
Now this one is a tricky one, you know, Paul speaks as if you can get married whenever。
it is that you want to.。
And we all know that it's not quite the case.。
Because you got to find someone suitable, right?。
You don't just go, "Oh, I think you're okay.。
All right, we'll take this one."。
You can't do that, right?。
But it makes it sound like it can.。
And that's where it's mind boggling.。
So how does this work?。
Well, I think, you know, he's really trying to tell us to be faithful.。
So if you're burning with passion, you got to help yourself to not.。
Now of course, finding someone suitable would be good if you would like to get married.。
But even if you can't, don't let that passion just run all over the place and do anything。
that is against the Lord, but instead stay faithful to him.。
And in here, I mean, I don't have a solution.。
I don't know how to live this one out, honestly.。
But we do know that he's asking us to be faithful, to not let anything to overcome us, but to。
overcome even the burning passion with ways that will be faithful to God.。
Now as Paul continues to talk about the married people back in verse 10 now, it says, "To。
the married, I give this command, not I, but the Lord, a wife must not separate from her。
husband.。
But if she does, she must remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband.。
And a husband must not divorce his wife."。
Now Paul clearly here tells wives not to separate from her husband.。
But interestingly enough, right the next line, he says, "But if she does."。
So what does that tell us?。
It tells us that it's possible that in some instances or circumstances, maybe physical。
or emotional abuse or adultery or other circumstances, that they need to separate.。
But it only says kind of for a while, leaving that door of reconciliation possible, because。
in no way does it say that they should divorce.。
Now when we hear this, I want to put a disclaimer on, because maybe some of us here or even。
online watching are divorced.。
And this is not meant to make you feel guilty or shamed in any way, because we do understand。
that Paul is trying to give us a guideline, but it's impossible for him to list out every。
single situation.。
But what we do know that is that God has enough grace to meet us where we are.。
And yet he still tells us kind of the basic guideline and principles of what God's heart。
is and what he desires.。
But we do understand that there's all these brokenness and sinfulness in life.。
So for anybody who has gone through divorce, this is not meant to be a condemnation.。
And we want to just tell you that, that life is hard and relationships are hard, and people。
who are broken or sinful and will not repent, and that might include ourselves as well,。
will make it even harder.。
So this is just Paul telling us his guidelines to help us to understand God's heart.。
And so what we see here, we should really just try our best to work.。
But we always know that relationships takes at least, well, I mean, talk about marital。
here, so two people, two.。
And so we try our best to do our parts, and that's, we'll honor God.。
And so as we read further in verse 12, it says, "To the rest, I say this.。
If any brother has a wife who is not a believer and she is willing to live with him, he must。
not divorce her.。
And if a woman who has a husband who is not a believer and he's willing to live with her,。
she must not divorce him.。
For the unbelieving husband has been sanctified through his wife, and the unbelieving wife。
has been sanctified through her believing husband.。
Otherwise, your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy.。
But if the unbeliever leaves, let it be so.。
The brother or sister is not bound in such circumstances.。
God has called us to live in peace.。
How do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband?。
Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife?"。
Now here we see a situation where one of them are a believer, and it does not say whether。
when they got married, if that was already the case or if someone has converted afterwards.。
But what we do see is that the Lord is still asking the people, "If you can stay together,。
stay together."。
Only in the case where the non-believer wants to leave, well, there's very little or maybe。
nothing you can do about it.。
Again, this is looking inwards.。
You just try your best.。
You cannot control the outcome, but that's what we need to do.。
This brings us to our third point, that rather you're married or rather you're single, we。
need to remain faithful to God.。
I think it's not possible for the Bible to write out every single situation in your home,。
right?。
You can't say, "Oh, but he said that, but she did this, so now what should we do?。
Is there a protocol for it?"。
There's no way any book will have all of the scenarios, right?。
No combination at all.。
But he's telling us, "What do we need to do?。
Be faithful.。
Be faithful."。
And just doing our parts in this relationship is what's called of us.。
Now, personal relationships are hard, as we have established at the very beginning, all。
right?。
And even after this sermon, it hasn't gone easier, has it?。
Okay?。
You're not going to walk in and say, "All right, all my problems are solved."。
But what we do know is that if we were to do what we said, to be sinless in front of。
our brothers and sister, to do good when they do evil to us, well, not evil, but maybe just。
disputes.。
Or rather it is that we have our bodies that we need to be holy to, or with our relationship,。
marital status, to be faithful in those situation.。
What we realize is we can't do it ourselves.。
Even if we know, "Okay, I'm supposed to be faithful.。
I'm supposed to be holy."。
How do we then do this?。
And that is through Holy Spirit.。
That is the only way we can do it.。
And how is it that we can invite Holy Spirit to help us?。
Pray.。
Thank you.。
We need to pray.。
You're like, "Oh, well, I've heard of this before."。
Yes, well, you're in a church, so I'm sure it's not the first time you've heard that。
we need to pray.。
But actually prayer changes everything.。
Okay, everybody say this, "Prayer changes everything."。
One, two, three.。
- Prayer changes everything.。
- All right, I need more conviction on that.。
One, two, three.。
- Prayer changes everything.。
- And prayers do change everything.。
You know, Martin Luther, he's very famous for what?。
Praying, okay?。
He's all about praying.。
He says the more work he has to do, the more he has to pray.。
And he prays for three hours, which I don't know how that works, three hours.。
And what we realize, actually what I realize is the more relational issues that we have,。
you know what we should do?。
The more prayers we should have.。
Because God's gonna help us be faithful, be holy.。
He's gonna be the one that actually changes.。
Us, the other person, or the situation.。
And so, you know, I really wanna encourage all of us, that includes myself as well.。
You know, for those of you, I won't get a raise of hand for this.。
For those of you who pray for one minute, I wanted to say put your hand up, but don't,。
don't, don't.。
Okay?。
For those of us who pray for one minute, I wanna challenge all of you, all of us.。
What about praying for five minutes?。
Or if you say, "Oh, that might be a bit challenging."。
Okay, two minutes.。
And for those of us who have been praying for 15 minutes a day, rather that includes。
your meal prayers or not, what about a 20 minute or a 30 minute prayer?。
And you're like, "Wait a minute, is this about the length of our prayer?。
Is it about the length?"。
Then what is it?。
It's not talking about time then.。
It's talking about our dedication to God.。
It's talking about whether we prioritize Him.。
It's talking about whether or not we actually believe that He's gonna be doing something。
in that person's life, in our lives, or in our circumstances.。
And when we put God first, we're gonna see things change.。
Prayer changes everything.。
Can we say that again?。
One, two, three.。
- Prayer.。
- Prayer changes everything.。
I love being up here.。
I was thinking, "Mig, you guys do anything, right?"。
But prayers do change everything.。
And so I just...。
Like what Pastor John said earlier, I don't want us to walk out like, "Oh, it's another。
nice service.。
I hope you find it nice."。
Rather, we go out and say, "All right, I've been praying very little, or maybe I've been。
praying some, but let me really put that up front.。
Let me really ask God to change our personal relationships, change us.。
Really ask us to allow God to help us to surrender ourselves so that all that is left is God."。
Amen.。
It's gonna be a journey between all of us and all of God.。
But let's move together as a church, okay?。
Wherever you are in that spectrum, let's move towards all of God.。
You want that?。
- Yeah.。
- Yeah.。
Oh, yeah, yeah.。
You want that?。
- Yeah.。
- Yeah, thank you.。
So let us pray together, asking God to help us.。
Our personal relationships, God did not make personal relationships to torture us.。
He made it so we could enjoy that fellowship.。
And so let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, thank you so much for giving us brothers and sisters.。
Thank you for giving us this body that we can walk around and we can do many things。
with.。
And thank you for giving us, if we do have a spouse or even if we're by ourselves, this。
opportunity to just enjoy the life that you have given us.。
And yet, Father, we know that our bodies, all of us, do not belong to ourselves, that。
we belong to you.。
And Father, we pray that we can surrender ourselves to you.。
That may your Holy Spirit every day transforms us, changes us, so that we really live a life。
where we can say that this body does not belong to me.。
These relationships, I submit them to you.。
So Father, help us with your Holy Spirit filling us up, changing us day by day, maybe from。
simple things like the way we eat, the way we sleep, the way we talk, to the way we pray,。
to the way we read the Bible.。
Father, I pray that you help our church to grow one step at a time, not with our own。
efforts, but with your Holy Spirit.。
We pray all these in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
