Last week was my wedding anniversary.。
My 47th wedding anniversary.。
Yeah, I know, Sandra deserves a medal for long suffering.。
So every year I try to do my little bit by taking her away.。
As we're at the moment not able to travel overseas or even to Macau or China, I selected。
Tai O on Lantau Island and the Heritage Hotel.。
Anyone ever been there?。
Amazing.。
Now, Tai O is known as the Venice of Hong Kong and it's about as non-Hong Kong as you。
can get in Hong Kong.。
It's houses built, I'm gonna show him up here, on stilts across canals.。
But the problem we have anywhere in Hong Kong is what we call Pastor John Syndrome.。
We hope, we pray every year we can escape it and that we can have an anniversary in。
peace without someone coming up to us and saying, "Hi, Pastor John."。
So back to last week.。
Sandra and I were ready to enjoy our anniversary dinner at the Hotel's Outlook Restaurant.。
Now, it may not be Michelin star quality, but it's very nice and very romantic.。
I'd organize a special menu with a special cake.。
So we're all set for the evening.。
A glass of wine, just the two of us.。
Then the dreaded thing, the one thing we had feared happened.。
You guess.。
Pastor John.。
A smart young man, late 20s, early 30s.。
Politely I said, "Oh, hi."。
Then he said, "Do you remember me?"。
Now, I have to tell you, this is a pastor's nightmare.。
After all, we are supposed to remember everybody.。
Yeah, right.。
But my answer was perfect.。
Why, yes.。
Remind me of your name.。
It was Leo.。
Now, this is a tip for you guys.。
The trick is that when someone tells you the name, you use that name repeatedly over the。
next few minutes as much as you can.。
"Sandra, you remember Leo.。
We met Leo at church a while back, but this guy soon followed up.。
Do you remember praying for me?"。
"Yes, I think so."。
A little bit more hesitantly.。
"Do you remember what you prayed for?"。
Now, I'm thinking we're getting very close to the end of this charade.。
But I stupidly perhaps fire one more bullet.。
I said, "Just remind me."。
He then gave a blow by blow account.。
To be honest, it was actually very encouraging.。
And then he said, "I just wanted to tell you how much that prayer changed my life."。
Then it happened.。
Suddenly, he pulls up a chair and says, "Do you mind if I sit down?"。
"Do you mind if I sit down?"。
Quickly, I responded, quite respectfully.。
"I'd love to hear about it, but tonight we're celebrating our wedding anniversary.。
And we're having a special night out.。
Can I take your WhatsApp and perhaps connect another time?。
Okay."。
The guy looked at Sandra and he said, "Happy anniversary."。
Sandra smiled politely.。
He immediately turned his attention to me and began to sit down at the chair.。
"Yamo gacho."。
My options weren't great at that time.。
My hands went all clammy.。
I had a knot in my stomach.。
On one hand, I could invite this stranger to a special anniversary dinner.。
On the other hand, what I was gonna say to him and actually I did, of course, was gonna。
make Pastor John seem very insensitive.。
The point of the story is not to convince you how insensitive or how romantic I am,。
depending on your personal viewpoint.。
The point is to look at the velocity, the speed of the moment.。
It only took a millisecond for the guy.。
By the way, he was really a nice guy.。
It only took a millisecond for the guy to pull up a seat at our table.。
And the same can be true for how fast the enemy can pull up a seat at our table.。
Louis Guggenheim says this, I've put it on the screen.。
In less time than it takes to snap your fingers, if you're not careful, the enemy can pull。
up a seat at the table that the shepherd has prepared for you.。
Suddenly it's not just you and God Almighty at the table.。
Remember week one, it's not just you and God Almighty.。
Now it's you, God, and the devil.。
The enemy only needs the tiniest crack.。
He only needs a sliver of opportunity.。
The smallest window of doubt or opportunity.。
Like when you get a friend's WhatsApp and you read it, you read it the wrong, wrong。
way and you get offended.。
Have you done that?。
Yeah.。
Just like that, the devil is sitting at your table beginning to win the battle for your。
mind.。
Church, I'm sorry.。
I'm not gonna stand for it.。
Tonight I'm gonna call it out.。
I'm gonna give the enemy what we'll now call the Leo treatment.。
A bit more theologically sound than the expression, the Leo treatment.。
And I'll be covering it this week and next week.。
But a better way of putting this is taking back our freedom, which is why I'm so amazed。
when you pray what you prayed for at the prayer meeting before the service.。
We're gonna talk about taking back our freedom.。
Now the big problem is that we have come to accept the enemy sitting at our table.。
The truth is particularly in a place like Hong Kong.。
Hey, do you know what?。
One thing I noticed about Hong Kong, when you go into an elevator or a lift, there are。
two buttons, the door closed and the door open.。
Have you noticed that the door open is pristine?。
There's no marks on it.。
The door closed is completely rubbed out, right?。
Because people just doing this.。
That's Hong Kong, right?。
No one presses door open button in Hong Kong.。
Maybe we could start.。
But we say things like this, "Oh, it's just the way it is."。
These days, anxiety is just part of the equation.。
We are all anxious and there is nothing we can do about it.。
The political situation, the virus, life is so chaotic.。
Of course I worry.。
Don't you read the news headlines?。
Why wouldn't I be afraid?。
In the same way, we believe the lie that we're not worth much to God or to anyone else for。
that matter.。
We think people don't get us.。
Our parents don't get us.。
Our spouse doesn't get us.。
Our boss just doesn't get us.。
Or they don't value us.。
Or we flip to the other point of view.。
I call it the entitlement syndrome.。
And Hong Kong has this in spades, in abundance.。
We think that we deserve.。
We deserve more so we allow envy and greed and comparison to cannibalize our God-given。
identity.。
I mean, James is actually sitting there this afternoon, actually saying to himself, "John。
is twice my age.。
Why does he still have hair?"。
Actually, actually, I think God gave it to Johnny.。
And the worst thing, social media, as you scroll through IG, Facebook, and the like,。
we become even more determined to get what other people have, or better still, more.。
More stuff.。
That's what we need.。
More friends, as if they're real friends.。
More layers of protection.。
More likes.。
Or maybe another table.。
Why stress for a little lust here, or a moment or two of pleasure there?。
Before you know it, you start to talk like the devil and think the thoughts he wants。
you to dwell on.。
And you shrug your shoulders and say, "That's just the way it is."。
Right?。
I want to say no.。
No, no, no, no, and then no.。
I want you to look at what the Apostle Paul told the church in Rome.。
Maybe we could read this together.。
Romans 8.。
Romans 8, one of my favorite chapters of the whole Bible.。
We get to verse 10, and it says this.。
Roll together.。
Ready?。
One, two, three.。
"If the Spirit is in you, then even through your body is a subject to death because of。
sin.。
The Spirit gives life because of righteousness.。
And if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, He who raised。
Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies because of His Spirit who。
lives in you.。
Therefore, brothers and sisters, we have an obligation, but it is not to the flesh to。
live according to it."。
We had different versions, right?。
It's good to read different versions of the Bible.。
Let me try and save this.。
I'll read it to you.。
"But if Christ is in you, then even through your body is subject to death because of sin.。
The Spirit gives life because of righteousness.。
And if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, He who raised。
Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies because of His Spirit who。
lives in you.。
Therefore, brothers and sisters, we have an obligation, but it's not to the flesh to live。
according to it."。
Now, what that means is we can say no, we must say no to the enemy in Jesus' name.。
The same power that raised Christ from the dead lives in you.。
Jesus has broken the power of sin and God's invitation to the table comes with an invitation。
to embrace a new mindset and a new way of living.。
In Jesus' name, we don't have to let the voice of the enemy control the way we live.。
In Jesus' name, we don't have to give in to sinful desires.。
We can win the battle for our minds.。
We sing the song, don't we?。
Thanks to Jesus, we are no longer slaves.。
We are set free.。
We are alive.。
You are His beloved child whom He loves in you.。
He is well pleased.。
And I'm gonna come back to that later.。
But for now, I wanna come back to Psalm 23, our anchor passage for this series.。
And I believe we create a problem for ourselves when we only read the first part of Psalm。
23, verse 4.。
We read this, "Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death."。
And what happens is we read that and we act like it's the end of the sentence.。
And we opt out of what comes next.。
"I will fear no evil for you are with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me."。
What happens is we like to camp in the valley and stay there.。
In trials, when temptation comes, we think this, "Well, I'm really in the valley now.。
God didn't come through for me.。
I prayed for this.。
God didn't answer.。
Well, God didn't answer in the way I wanted.。
So I'm gonna stay in the valley."。
I was obedient to God, but God didn't reward me as I'd hoped.。
So I'm gonna turn to sin in an effort to make me feel better.。
Did you hear that?。
A chair is being dragged across the floor.。
It is still a table for two.。
But Leo, or should I say the enemy in this case, has shown up.。
And so I've described Leo Mark II as your swift and vicious enemy.。
This is how he behaves.。
When he arrives at your table, he's quiet at first.。
You may not recognize him as he sits down.。
He might just help himself to your chocolate brownie, wiping his mouth inadvertently with。
your napkin.。
Just make no mistake, the devil does not appear in a Halloween costume with horns and a pitchfork.。
The Bible says that he masquerades as an angel of light.。
This is more likely what he'll say to you.。
"Hey, buddy.。
How's it going?"。
If you're Australian, he'll probably say, "Mate, you doing okay?。
You don't look so good.。
How's everything at work?。
I honestly don't know how you do it.。
Your boss is such a jerk."。
By the way, this is not for James, Johnny, Michelle, and Bonnie.。
I'm just saying, right?。
Your boss is such a jerk.。
I mean, you really are such a trooper to hang on in there and put up with that idiot.。
So how are things at home?。
Still rough?。
"Man, I pity you.。
Mind if I have another cupcake?。
These things are delicious."。
He might even start quoting the Bible to you.。
You know, one of the devil's favorite pastimes is quoting scripture out of context.。
But to demonstrate, I want to take you to Matthew 4 and Luke 4, where Satan tried to。
do a Leo.。
He tried to slip into a seat at Jesus' table.。
Now during Jesus' baptism, his heavenly father identified three foundational truths that。
were essential to Jesus' life and ministry.。
I want to take a look at what these appear to be because these are the three primary。
foundation stones of Jesus' life and ministry.。
They're all found in Luke 4, verse 11.。
"Firstly, God said to Jesus, 'You are my son.'"。
Jesus had come to learn from who his father was and what his true identity and value was。
from his father's perspective.。
He then said, "Whom I love."。
Jesus had a tested and proven knowledge of his father's love.。
His relationship with his father was secure.。
It wasn't based on performance.。
It wasn't down to how many grade A's he got at school.。
Number three, "With you, I am well pleased."。
Jesus had learned that his primary purpose and motivation for life and ministry was bringing。
joy and glory to his father above anything and everyone else.。
These two are actually the foundation stones of your Christian walk.。
I want to say to you again, you've heard me say this to you before, that you are his child.。
He loves you and he's proud of you.。
I need to say it again because for some of you it's hard to take.。
You are his child.。
He loves you and he is proud of you.。
Every one of you.。
Now immediately following this occasion, so Jesus has been affirmed by the father, anointed。
for public ministry.。
He was led by the Holy Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the evil one, Satan.。
And Satan is thinking, "I'm just wondering if I can get a seat at his table."。
You read this, Luke 4 verse 12, "At once the Spirit sent him out into the wilderness and。
he was in the wilderness 40 days being tempted by Satan.。
He was with the wild animals and angels attended him."。
Now the interesting thing about this account is to note exactly, exactly what the temptations。
were targeting.。
And to help us, we're going to look at the fuller account of them in Matthew's gospel.。
Firstly, God had said, "You are my son."。
That was his identity, right?。
Then we read, "40 days in he was hungry."。
Verse three, "The tempter came and said to him, 'If you are the son of God, tell these。
stones to become bread.'"。
Can you see what's happened here?。
God said, "You're my son."。
Satan said, "If you are God's son, tell these stones to become bread."。
Do you remember in the garden of Eden with Eve?。
Satan said to Eve, "Did God really say?"。
And that's one of his main entry points to your table.。
He will say to you, "Did God really say that?。
Did God really say you're not to cheat on your expenses at work?。
Did God really say you're not to sleep with your boyfriend before you get married?。
Did God really say this?"。
Secondly, God said, "Whom I love."。
His relationship.。
Then we read this, "The devil took him to the holy city and had him stand at the highest。
point of the temple."。
He used that word, "If" again.。
If you are the son of God, throw yourself down.。
"For it is written, 'He will command his angels concerning you and they will lift up you in。
his hands so that you will not strike your foot against a stone.'"。
What he's saying here is, if God loves you, he will send his angels.。
He was challenging his relationship with the father.。
And thirdly, he said this, "God had said, 'With you I am well pleased.'"。
He said this, "Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the。
kingdoms of the world and their splendor.。
All this I will give you, I'll give you all, if you will bow down and worship me."。
He's saying, "Forget about your purpose, the cross."。
It's gonna be painful.。
"I can give it to you now."。
The shortcut.。
So what we see here is Satan is questioning Jesus' identity, his relationship with his。
father and his purpose in life.。
And by doing this, tempts Jesus to prove his sonship and significance.。
He pressures him to take things into his own hands by not waiting for the father's leading。
or provision.。
But here is the key.。
But Jesus, quoting Scripture, "Man shall not live by bread alone.。
Do not put your Lord God to the test.。
Worship the Lord and serve Him only."。
Jesus shows he's secure in who he is, confident of his father's love and focused on pleasing。
his father above all else by choosing not to give into this temptation in spite of his。
life-threatening thirst and hunger.。
My friends, this is the answer.。
The Word of God.。
I wanna encourage you to read it.。
Get into a regular Bible reading plan.。
If you don't have one, come and ask one of the pastors.。
We will suggest one for you.。
Make a habit of reading it or listening to it every day.。
But don't just read it.。
Digest it.。
Allow it to speak to you.。
Join a clan.。
Grab a journal and write down.。
Remember those old things we used to have pens?。
Write down what God is saying to you.。
But don't just read it and don't just digest it.。
Live it.。
The Word of God is living and active, sharper than any double-edged sword.。
And above all, be aware.。
Be aware.。
I said earlier, in less time than it takes to snap your fingers, if you're not careful,。
the enemy can pull a seat up at the table that the shepherd has prepared for you.。
And when we open our Bibles, we don't have to wait very long to see this.。
In fact, it's on page four in my Bible, in Genesis chapter three.。
As I said earlier, the devil in the form of a serpent showed Eve the forbidden fruit and。
pointed out how beautiful it was.。
What's he saying to Eve at this time?。
Surely, surely God's withholding something from you.。
Something you truly need.。
And soon, we find Eve nodding her head and convincing her husband, Adam, that the fruit。
was indeed good for food, pleasing to the eye, and desirable for gaining wisdom.。
In whatever way the devil gains access to your table, the goals are the same.。
He wants to gain access to your mind so that he can destroy you.。
He wants to get inside your head with harmful thoughts that could be planted within you.。
In short, he wants to kill your relationship with God.。
The Bible tells us that he's always prowling like a roaring lion, waiting for someone to。
devour.。
My friends, that someone is you.。
And I want to tonight pray for you.。
I want to pray for us.。
I want to ask this question as I conclude.。
I put it on the screen.。
Has the enemy taken a seat?。
It's not up to us to stop him prowling.。
But it is up to us to stop him sitting at our table, just as it was up to me that night。
to stop Leo sitting at my table.。
Rest assured, you have the power as a son or daughter to exercise the faith that says。
in Jesus' name, I won't entertain your words.。
I won't entertain your thoughts.。
I won't entertain your influence.。
And we're going to pray this right now.。
But I'm wondering, what if he's already sitting there and we've not even recognised he's there?。
You become so accustomed to negative thoughts and destructive emotions, you don't even realise。
he's taken bites out of your pizza.。
Next week, I will continue exposing the deadly lies of the enemy and how they can be extinguished。
in Jesus' name.。
That's a spoiler alert and an advertisement for next week.。
What I'm going to ask you to do now is to stand up.。
As the band comes back, we're going to sing a song in a moment.。
The words in the song are these, "Even what the enemy means for evil, you turn it for。
our good.。
You turn it for our good and for your glory.。
Even in the valley, you are faithful.。
You're working for our good.。
You're working for our good and for your glory.。
Your plans are still to prosper.。
You've not forgotten us.。
You're with us in the fire and the flood.。
You're faithful forever.。
Perfect in love.。
You are sovereign over us."。
Just close your eyes.。
As we prayed tonight in the pre-service prayer, we had a sense that God was shining his light。
upon us as a congregation.。
Now because we think that way, what we're thinking is one of those lights, like a search。
light, you know, in these movies when they're after the criminals, they put the search lights。
on and that God is trying to look for all the things we've done wrong.。
That is not the light that God is shining tonight.。
He comes along as a good shepherd.。
You know those little lights with the lantern.。
And God said, "I want to shine a light on your life so I can point the way, so I can。
set you on the right path."。
He's not here tonight to call out all the things you've done wrong.。
You know what they are.。
You don't need me to tell you that.。
And God certainly isn't going to do that.。
God say, "I want to put you on the right path."。
Now being on the right path might be turning for what you know was wrong and going on that。
path.。
But we're going to pray right now.。
If you're happy to do so, maybe just open your hands in front of you to receive what。
God has for you.。
I'm going to pray firstly a prayer, which basically says no to the enemy.。
We do not want the enemy to be a Leo at our table.。
And we say to the enemy now in Jesus' name, no.。
We say no to the thoughts that you're trying to put in our minds.。
We say no to the actions you're trying to help us do, things to harm us.。
We say no to the temptation, a little sin here and there, doesn't matter.。
We break these things off in the name of Jesus.。
And we still your voice.。
We pray protection around this congregation, this church, upon every Christ follower in。
this city.。
The enemy's had a filled day these last couple of years.。
To what's been going on outside.。
And our minds have been all over the place.。
Lord, we choose today to come back to you, the author and the perfecter of our faith.。
Protect us from the lies of the enemy, we pray.。
And Lord, where many of us have actually allowed the enemy, maybe inadvertently, to take a。
seat at our table.。
We pray.。
We pray today.。
And we're going to sing it in a moment.。
And what the enemy has meant for evil, you will turn for our good.。
Lord, we are not condemned.。
The enemy would condemn us.。
But Lord, you would convict us of sin and you would show us the right way forward.。
I pray that your word would be a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.。
Show me the way to go.。
Lord, we as a church come before you right now and commit ourselves afresh to you.。
And say, Lord, would you guide our paths.。
You are the good shepherd and we are your people.。
Join our hearts in unity with one another and with you.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Let's sing this together.。
Sovereign over us.。
Amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
