我哋睇緊 First Corinthians 呢個 Series。
英文就係 The Church in a Chaotic World。
今日個題目係 Natural vs. Spiritual Wisdom。
今日我哋講智慧,Natural vs. Spiritual Wisdom。
呢個圖畫係邊度㗎,知唔知呀?。
Modern Day, It's the Ancient Ruin of Corinthians。
我好多年前都係去過㗎。
The Ancient Ruin of the Church of Corinthians。
咁以前呢個 Greek and Roman Society 佢哋係鍾意做咩㗎?。
Wealthy Elite 嗰啲人係鍾意做咩㗎?。
係咪睇電視呀?。
佢哋冇電視㗎嘛嗰時,咁就睇咩呀?。
咁就做咩嘢呀?。
What do they do?。
Theatre, OK, Yeah, 有時係睇Theatre,係咪?。
仲有 Discuss 啲咩嘢㗎?。
鍾意做咩呀?。
They like to discuss people's lives. Yes, OK.。
之前有Socrates, 有Plato, 有Aristotle。
佢哋鍾意 Discuss 咩呀?。
係Life, Knowledge, Wisdom, 係咪?。
佢哋好鍾意 Discuss human wisdom.。
What is the meaning of life?。
What is right and wrong?。
全部呢啲好Philosophical 嘅Question 嘅,係咪?。
咁,保羅去到First Corinthians呢,。
佢都好鍾意同佢哋Discuss 㗎,。
唔同嘅Wisdom, 唔同嘅Knowledge.。
咁保羅呢, 保羅自己有冇Wisdom呀?。
有冇Knowledge呀, 你覺得?。
佢有咩Credential呀?。
Don't show the next slide yet.。
保羅自己有咩Credential?。
佢係一個Pharisee, Pharisee 係咩嚟㗎?。
佢係識咩㗎?。
Pharisee 係識咩㗎?。
The Old Testament, 係咪?。
佢可能背曬全部個Old Testament,。
你背到幾多呀?。
Paul's credential is he is the top tier theological and legal education.。
He studied under Gamaliel, ok?。
He is the Hebrew of Hebrews, he is the Pharisee.。
He is a Roman citizen, legal prestige.。
He is a writer and a theologian,。
and he is a bilingual communicator.。
佢可能識Hebrew, Greek, 仲有咩呀?。
Aramaic, 係咪?。
最少有三個Language佢識㗎, ok?。
So he is one of the top, one of the wisest people of that time, 係咪?。
Modern, modern example, 佢可能係Harvard, PhD,。
跟住Top of the class, 係咪?。
Multiple PhDs, ok?。
咁我哋而家Society呢,。
係點去搵Knowledge同埋Wisdom呀?。
我哋Chat, 咩呀?。
Chat GBT啦, 係咪?。
以前冇Chat GBT㗎啦!。
Uncle Stanley, 你去邊度搵Wisdom同Knowledge㗎?。
去邊度呀?。
吓?。
My boss.。
Your boss? 你個Boss好Wisdom, ok?。
Oh, you point at me, I'll point at you, ok?。
Uncle Vincent, 你以前去邊度搵Knowledge同埋Wisdom㗎?。
Encyclopedia! Encyclopedia!。
係啲好多本書嘅, 係咪?。
A to D呀, D to E呀, 全部Encyclopedia!。
喺圖書館, ok? We go to the library, 去搵啲Encyclopedia.。
跟住之後呢, 有一個Movement,。
係全部嘢呢, 係要Scientific嘅,。
有Evidence嘅, 係咪?。
如果唔係有Science-based Evidence呢,。
唔信嘅我哋, 係咪?。
咁所以, Darwin, I was just in Cambridge, all right?。
Cambridge is where Darwin studied, ok?。
Where he first got to know more about science.。
跟住呢, From the library to science,。
我哋就開始有咩嘢呀? 有咩Search呀?。
有咩Search呀? Google Search!。
Google Search, 係咪呀?。
係咩年呀? 開始有Google Search呀?。
係Yahoo Search先㗎, 好似, 係咪呀?。
Yahoo Search!。
跟住呢, 之後呢, 就轉咗Google Search.。
有冇聽過Yahoo呀?。
有冇聽過Yahoo呀? Huh?。
Netscape! 係呀, Netscape!。
我都唔記得Netscape係咩!。
Ancient language to you guys!。
Ok, Netscape, Yahoo,跟住Google!。
Google贏咗呢, 知唔知點解呀?。
因為佢Develop咩Gmail呀, 有Gchat呀, 跟住有Google Docs呀,。
所以佢贏咗呢個Search Engine, ok?。
跟住之後呢, 就係ChatGBT, 係咪呀?。
你哋唔使去圖書館, 你唔使去睇Instaglamedia,。
你唔使去Google Search, just type it in ChatGBT!。
你哋覺得, 你哋學校幾多Percent 係用ChatGBT㗎?。
Huh?。
你冇用ChatGBT? 冇?。
Gemini, ok?。
邊個覺得佢係, ok, 50%係用ChatGBT㗎? Huh?。
Ok, 你唔係用ChatGBT嚟用㗎咩呀? Huh?。
DeepSeek㗎嘛, 因為而家冇, 香港冇㗎嘛!。
Ok, 邊個係50%係用ChatGBT㗎?。
Higher, ok?。
CYR係Higher, ok?。
70%, 舉手, 70%, Wow!。
Uncle Vincent, 返工都係,。
Sam, 你, 你, 你, Sam來!。
Ok, 咁80%呢, 有冇80%?。
Huh? 80%?。
Jake, how many percent did you use?。
80%, Wow! 80%。
Ok, 最後呢, 你哋呢?。
呢女仔呢?。
100%呀?。
100%, 嘩!。
唔使讀書啦, 就咁, 就咁, 唔使讀書啦, ok。
Next slide, I read, 我睇到呢個, 呢個post。
Graduation speech 2026 be like,。
I'd like to thank ChatGBT for the essays,。
Google for the answers,。
YouTube for the tutorials,。
AI for doing the thinking,。
Alexa for reminding me it was due,。
And copy and paste for getting me through it all.。
係咪呀? 而家個wisdom係咪咁樣呀?。
而家係basically唔使wisdom㗎啦,。
係就咁用, 全部係rely on AI, ChatGBT,。
Studying, reasoning, 係咪?。
可能去reflect下我哋學嗰啲嘢啦,。
係咪點去reply呀,。
或者去經歷有唔同嘅experience, 係咪?。
有internship去experience,。
或者seek啲mentor呀, 啲teacher呀,。
唔同嘅有advice.。
So, we're gonna learn about four things today.。
First is spiritual wisdom, spiritual being,。
spirit of God, and natural versus spiritual wisdom.。
好, 我哋開始呢, 就讀first Corinthians.。
Let's read together.。
We do, however, speak a message of wisdom among the mature,。
but not the wisdom of this age, or of the rulers of this age.。
For if they had, they would have not crucified the Lord of our glory.。
As it is written,。
What no eye has seen, nor ear has heard,。
nor the heart of man imagined,。
what God has prepared for those who love Him.。
好, 首先呢, 保羅呢就講智慧, spiritual wisdom, 係咩嘢呀?。
First of all, it is hidden.。
It is hidden. Spiritual wisdom is hidden.。
Ok? 唔係可以就咁google search就搵到嘅。。
God's wisdom is hidden. 點解hidden嘅?。
因為如果你冇呢個spiritual aspect呢,。
你覺得係冇用嘅。。
你覺得係not related to you, 係咪?。
你同你啲朋友喺學校講,。
我祈禱呀, 或者我同神傾計呀, 係咪?。
你啲non-Christian friend, 用話話,。
我好understand你呀,。
我係好想同你一齊呀, 去祈禱呀, 去親近神呀。。
你啲non-Christian friend係咪咁樣㗎?。
你啲non-Christian friend係咪咁樣㗎? 係呀? 係咩? 真係呀?。
Wow! Amazing! 你啲non-Christian friend好有insight, wisdom!。
多數呢, 你同你啲non-Christian friend, 你啲大學朋友呀, 你啲high school朋友講,。
我返教會呀, 佢話你點解返教會呀? 係咪?。
你嘥時間! 係咪? 你可以瞓覺喎!。
點解你咁早返嚟教會呢?。
It's a waste of time! You can go work out, you can go study, 係咪?。
It's a waste of time! 係咪? 你啲non-Christian friend會唔會同你咁樣講呀?。
可能冇咁直接同你咁樣講啦, 係咪?。
Ok, Paul就話the spiritual wisdom of the world is hidden from those who do not understand.。
第二, 係mysterious, 係mysterious.。
咁佢就話, a mystery that has been hidden and God destined for our glory before time began.。
None of the rulers of the age understood it, for if they had, they would not have crucified the Lord of Glory.。
如果Pilate, 如果Caesar, 佢understand the glory and spiritual wisdom of the world, of God, 咁佢就唔會crucify Jesus.。
今日, 點解? 因為佢會recognize 耶穌係個救主, 係咪?。
但係佢冇呢個spiritual wisdom, 咁所以佢就crucify咗the Lord.。
And lastly, spiritual wisdom is beyond imagination. 我哋睇next slide, 係咪?。
Spiritual wisdom is not something you can search for, Google search for.。
Spiritual wisdom is hidden from the rulers. 如果Caesar, Pilate, 係recognize spiritual wisdom, 佢唔會釘死主耶穌。。
最後, spiritual wisdom is beyond imagination. 係我哋唔可以用我哋human wisdom to understand.。
我哋而家會play一個video. Let's listen to the video or look at the video.。
This video is about two twins. A story of two twins in the womb. 佢哋未出個womb, 咁佢哋就兩個人有一個discussion.。
我哋出咗世, 有冇life after delivery? 咁所以我哋喺個womb嗰時, for example, 我哋喺呢個世界入面,。
How much can we perceive outside of this universe? We are very limited in our thinking.。
So this is a great example of how God's wisdom is greater than our spiritual wisdom.。
第一,我哋就學咗spiritual wisdom. 第二,我哋就學spiritual being. 神創造我哋係made in 咩㗎?。
我知made in China, 係咪? 我哋多數係made in China.。
More importantly, 我哋係made in God's image. 咁即係點解呀? 我哋made in God's image 即係點解呀?。
我哋reflect 邊個呀? 我哋reflect 神呀嘛! 神個likeness, 神個attitude, 神嘅love, justice, peace.。
點解我哋識去愛呀? 識去要有平安呀? 因為我哋個神, is a son of peace, love, joy, goodness.。
首先,神創造我哋係一個physical body. 我哋每個人都有physical body.。
Then the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being.。
神點創造人呀? 佢係用塵。 你哋屋企地下係咪好多塵呀?。
你pick up the dust, blow the dust,之後會有咩呀? 有冇人呀? 冇人! 會多啲dust!。
但係神呢, 佢breathe into dust個時呢, 係有咩呀? The breath of life. The Hebrew word is "ruha". It means "spirit".。
神breathe into dust呢, 唔係單只係有air, 係有咩呀? 有spirit!。
所以呢,我哋become a living being. Spiritual being. Let's go back to the previous slide.。
We have the body, the physical body, flesh and blood. 仲有咩呀? 我哋有我哋嘅mind, logic, reasoning, 同埋有我哋嘅情緒, emotion.。
第三呢, 我哋唔係單止有body, mind, 我哋有spirit, the source of life.。
有三個area, 我哋之後會睇, the Lord gives us the spirit.。
Not only each one of us has a soul or a spirit, but there is a spirit of life, a spirit of God.。
好,我哋而家有discussion, 我哋會傾兩個題目, 第一係, in what areas of your life do you think you need more wisdom?。
你邊方面係要多啲智慧嘅係你而家嘅生命?。
第二呢, how do you gain wisdom in that area? 你點去追求智慧呢?。
第二個question is, do you think you have more worldly wisdom or spiritual wisdom?。
Ok, in what areas of your life do you need wisdom?。
佢哋,即係我幫佢summarize, 有人就講, 係studying嗰度需要多啲wisdom, 係人際關係。。
邊個讀書係要多啲wisdom嘅? 舉手, ok, 人際關係呢, 有冇要wisdom嘅?。
揀朋友。 邊個揀朋友要有智慧嘅? 舉手, very good, 係咪呀?。
Yeah, choose the right friends, 係咪? You are the sum of the 4 or 5 best friends you have, 係咪?。
如果你4 or 5 best friends 都係全部唔好嘅呢, 咁你就可能, maybe not so good.。
Ok, 仲有呢? Ok, 邊個覺得佢有多啲worldly wisdom, rather than spiritual wisdom?。
Worldly wisdom, ok, 邊個覺得佢有多啲spiritual wisdom, rather than worldly wisdom?。
We all need more wisdom, ok, let's read the next verse, 我哋一齊睇第十節。。
These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.。
For who knows except the Spirit of that person, which is in him?。
So also no one comprehends thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.。
Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit that we might understand the things freely given to us by God.。
And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Spirit,。
interpreting spiritual truth to those who are spiritual.。
好,咁呢度呢就寫咩呀?。
Who knows a person's thoughts except the Spirit of that person?。
係咪?呢度保羅講呢,我哋有mind, 有body, 有mind, 同有spirit.。
呢個spirit呢,係幫我哋明白咩嘢呀?我哋自己嘅thoughts, ok?。
咁點可以明白神嘅thoughts呢?。
How do we understand the thoughts of God?。
保羅點講呀呢度?。
係依靠咩呀?。
The Spirit of God, 依靠聖靈, ok?。
咁我哋睇next slide, 聖靈係會幫我哋點樣呀?。
第一呢,係reveal, reveals the things of God, 佢reveal咩呀?。
Reveals the depths of God.。
Reveals the truth of God.。
同埋咩呀?Search咩呀?。
The Spirit of God searches everything, even the depths of God.。
仲有咩呀?。
係verse 13呢就話, it helps us to understand, ok?。
同埋interprets the spiritual truths.。
The Spirit of God helps us to know spiritual things.。
呢個係保羅個understanding.。
Now, the world, how does the world try to understand spiritual things?。
呢個世界點去try and understand spiritual things?。
佢係try to go through religion, 去唔同嘅Buddhist religion, Taoism, 或者Hinduism, 去search spiritual wisdom.。
But that's not what Paul is saying, how we get spiritual wisdom.。
Furthermore, we try to get spiritual wisdom by positive psychology.。
我think positively就得㗎喇, 我有一個positive attitude就得㗎喇,。
咁我就會有positive spiritual wisdom.。
但係保羅就講,我哋點有spiritual wisdom, it is through the Spirit of God which lives in me.。
The Spirit of God which lives in me.。
So, through the dust, God blew the breath of life, the Spirit, and we were born.。
When we are baptized, we are born again through the Holy Spirit.。
明唔明呀?。
So, we came into life when God blew the Spirit of life, the breath of life into us, we were born.。
We are born again when we are baptized in the Holy Spirit.。
We are born again through fire and water.。
我哋信靠主耶穌嗰時呢,主耶穌就俾咗我哋乜嘢呀?。
俾咗我哋聖靈。。
The next slide says, He sealed us with His own Spirit and gave us the Spirit as His own down payment in our hearts.。
Gave us the Spirit as the down payment in our hearts.。
Ok, so we learned three things so far.。
First is spiritual wisdom.。
Secondly, it is spiritual being.。
We are made as spiritual beings.。
Thirdly, we learned the Spirit of God helps us to understand spiritual wisdom.。
The last thing is, we are going to compare natural and spiritual wisdom.。
Ok, let us read the last verses together.。
One, two, three.。
The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are fully to him.。
He is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.。
The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one.。
For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him that we have the mind of Christ?。
Ok, the next slide is we have a comparison between natural wisdom and spiritual wisdom.。
Natural wisdom, natural people have the Spirit of the world.。
Spiritual people have the Spirit of God.。
Spiritual, natural wisdom is human wisdom.。
Spiritual wisdom is the wisdom from the Spirit.。
Natural wisdom does not accept the things of the Spirit of God.。
Spiritual wisdom accepts the things of God.。
Natural wisdom is not able to understand the things of God.。
Spiritual wisdom is able to understand the wisdom of God.。
Natural wisdom does not have the mind of Christ.。
Spiritual wisdom has the mind of Christ.。
Ok, like what we just said, when your friend does not know God, he does not know why you need to pray.。
He does not know why you need to pray and thank before you eat.。
He does not know why you need to go to church on Sunday.。
Why do you need to serve, help the worship team, and take your friends to church?。
Why? They don't understand.。
他覺得是愚蠢,你浪費這麼多時間,你給這麼多努力在教會,為什麼呢?。
They don't understand. It is foolishness to them.。
They only have natural wisdom.。
Natural wisdom, they only know this world.。
認識世界,我們要有錢,又要有職位,又要有好的教育,又要有好的朋友.。
They only understand these things.。
但是spiritual wisdom,它是understand the things of God.。
是神給我們有朋友的,神是個source of true wisdom.。
神是給我們provide for us.。
Now we are going to invite Nathan to come up.。
Let's give him a hand.。
Nathan,你覺得你哪方面最有wisdom?。
我覺得從小到大,我都覺得我哪方面都沒有wisdom.。
To be honest,我覺得可能最多就是讀書好一點,但都不是特別好.。
OK,你覺得在你的生命,哪個是很有wisdom?。
有沒有哪些mentors?。
Don't mention me. You don't need to mention me.。
可能如果從小到大,我就覺得我媽媽是很有wisdom.。
在處事方面,不同的事上,她做人都比較圓滑一點,不會那麼容易得罪人.。
你做了基督徒的時候,你覺得有沒有什麼改變?。
你一開始from an immature Christian to now a more mature Christian,。
你覺得你的thinking有沒有改變?。
其實我覺得以前的wisdom就是你讀書厲害,你很有knowledge,就是很有wisdom.。
可能讀書聰明,你就已經有wisdom,但是慢慢長大,在不同的事上,。
可能在大學,或者在不同的工作上,跟別人相處,。
就發覺可能真正的wisdom就是處人待事都要有上帝的形象,。
就是你要follow God's word 去跟別人相處,去做事.。
Share with us a time where you really relied on God for wisdom.。
我覺得最深刻的一次就是我上個暑假去做一份intern,。
我的team有一個女生的intern,。
她平時上班,我見她化妝多過工作,。
剛好我有一個project一定要跟她一起做,。
要present一個小時,。
大概三四個禮拜開始之前,我們已經開了一個meeting,。
大家分工,在on and on那幾個禮拜,我都有跟她說follow我們的progress,。
但她什麼都沒有,所以最後大概一個禮拜,其實她基本上是freeride了,。
freerider,freerider here,Ben I admit,freerider,Aston not.。
大概我們的slide有四五十頁,我做了四十頁,她做了四頁,。
之後她所有work都是chat gpt,但是沒有任何修飾,。
就這樣paste下去就算了,除此這件事之外,。
她多一次可能在工作上,言語上都有騷擾我,。
甚至可以說是details就不在這裏說了,。
details就不在這裏說了,甚至會令我覺得很不舒服,。
真的很不舒服,但是details就不在這裏說了,。
其實我也有想過跟我上司去說,。
但是當時我就覺得有把聲音跟我說不需要,。
就是靠上帝幫我伸冤,那上帝怎樣幫我伸冤呢?。
就是在最後一個禮拜,我們就跟我的上司有一個catch up的meeting,。
上司就問我這些東西是怎樣拿回來的,他真的自己爆了所有東西出來,。
我用AI,所有東西都是一字不漏地說出來,。
上司就對他說很反感,之後很神奇,。
就是那天上帝就給了我靈修的時候,。
靈修分享文昌的topic就叫做不公平的人生,。
是出自詩篇37篇,5至17節,我就讀幾句,。
當將你的事交託耶和華,並依靠他,他就必成全,。
他要使你的公義如光,發出使你的公平,明如正,。
當止住怒氣,離棄憤怒,不要心懷不平,以致作惡,。
因為作惡的必被剪除,唯有等候耶和華的必承受地土。。
惡人切謀害義人,又向他咬牙,主要笑他,。
因見他受罰的日子將要來到。。
所以我覺得上帝在那天之後就很被安慰,。
因為他不僅是騷擾我,在presentation,準備的時間,。
譬如在那天的meeting被老闆罵完之後,他還罵我,。
但我沒有話可說,因為我想做好整件事,。
最後我也有鼓勵他,我們一起做好事,。
所以我覺得在這方面我很體會到上帝那種大能,。
以及來自上帝那種智慧,多謝。。
OK,Let's give a hand to Nathan for sharing with us, very good, very good.。
OK,最後我們會,Let's look at the next slide, next slide.。
We learned today that spiritual wisdom is different from worldly wisdom.。
And that we were created to be spiritual beings.。
God created us for spiritual wisdom, to have a relationship with him.。
And how do we know God more? It is through the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit.。
If you are a believer, you have the Holy Spirit inside of you.。
And the last thing is, spiritual Christian, how do we become a spiritual Christian?。
OK, we, when we first became Christian, we would be a worldly Christian, OK?。
We were governed by what? Our flesh, right?。
We were governed by our lust, our selfish desires.。
We are worldly Christians, OK?。
You could be a Christian, you could believe in God,。
but you're like, oh, I love money, I love sports,。
and I want myself to look good in sports,。
so I'm not going to pass the ball, right?。
I want to study, and I want to have the best marks,。
because I want to be known as the best,。
or I want my parents to have, to love me, right?。
That is a worldly Christian, that is a worldly perspective.。
I'm governed by worldly things, by my flesh, OK?。
And the next, I call it the vibe Christian, the vibe Christian.。
It's governed by our mind, our logic, and our emotions, right?。
We come to explore, oh, because I feel good, right?。
I come to explore because, oh, I like the atmosphere,。
or I like how people welcome me, and how people are friends with me.。
These are the vibe Christians, all right?。
Still sort of worldly, OK?。
The next level is the spiritual Christian.。
It is governed by the Spirit of God, OK?。
So they are no longer, or less so, governed by their selfish desires, right?。
They are spiritual Christians, meaning that they come to church,。
oh, not just because, oh, I want people to please me,。
or to sell things to me, or so I receive things.。
I'm here because I want to serve the Lord.。
I want to get to know God more.。
That is the spiritual Christian.。
The spiritual Christian goes on mission trips,。
not because it is a vacation.。
They go on this mission trip because they have a desire to serve others.。
They have a desire to help others to know Jesus more.。
The worldly Christian would go to a mission trip。
because, oh, I want to have a great trip.。
I want to know my friends more.。
I want people to love me more, right?。
That is the worldly Christian, or the vibe Christian.。
The spiritual Christian starts to think more about the things of God.。
It puts the Spirit of God first.。
Do you understand? 明白吗?。
之后你跟Mentor 谈多点。。
What is a spiritual Christian?。
Why do we not trust our heart or our mind?。
Because it says in Jeremiah 17, verse 9,。
"The heart is deceitful above all things and beyond cure."。
Our mind deceives ourselves.。
Our heart is sinful.。
We have original sin.。
That affects us, our heart and our mind.。
That is why we need to go beyond that。
and depend on the Holy Spirit.。
How do we have the mind of Christ?。
These are three things to finish off.。
The first thing is we need to surrender to the Lord.。
We need to surrender to the Lord.。
Surrender our worldly flesh to the Lord.。
Surrender our mind to the Lord.。
Surrender our emotions to the Lord.。
Because it is not dependable.。
It is deceitful above all things, the Bible says.。
Surrender.。
Secondly is we need to seek spiritual knowledge.。
Seek spiritual wisdom.。
Lastly, we need to shift.。
Shift from worldly thinking, from worldly vibes,。
to spiritual, putting the Spirit first.。
We need to shift from being governed by the flesh.。
We need to shift from being governed by our minds,。
that is deceitful hearts,。
to shift towards spiritual thinking,。
the mind of Christ.。
We don't have time for our response song.。
But I just want us to have a moment of silence.。
A moment of silence.。
If you have received Jesus as your Lord and Savior,。
you have the Holy Spirit inside of you.。
I want you to just take one moment.。
Ask the Spirit of God inside of you。
to help you to become a spiritual Christian,。
to be governed by spiritual things,。
not the flesh, not our minds, not our hearts,。
but by His Spirit.。
Let's take 30 seconds to pray for ourselves,。
and then I'll conclude in prayer.。
Dear Heavenly Father,。
we want to be spiritual Christians。
that are governed by the Spirit of God,。
that put the Spirit first,。
that put God first,。
but we are weak.。
That is why we need to depend on your Spirit.。
Help us to surrender to the Holy Spirit,。
to seek spiritual wisdom,。
and to shift our thinking。
towards the mind of Christ.。
As we go into our groups,。
may you bless our spiritual conversations.。
May you fill our rooms。
with the Holy Spirit to teach us.。
Bless us, Lord, as we go into our groups.。
In Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
