(audience applauding)。
- Good evening.。
How is everybody doing?。
Can you believe it?。
2022 is almost over.。
We can take a deep breath.。
Wow.。
What a year it has been.。
What is one word you would use to describe 2022?。
What is one word you would use?。
What is one word?。
Okay, somebody said COVID.。
Okay, everybody shout out the word in one, two, three.。
Okay?。
One, two, three, shout out your word.。
- COVID.。
- Okay, I heard some great.。
I had some COVID, so I didn't hear anything else.。
But I would say that this year。
has been a year of uncertainty.。
Uncertainty.。
Yes, COVID has been mutating,。
and we had alpha, beta, delta,。
and Omnicron was at the height.。
When I was back in Canada in January,。
and you remember these lockdowns,。
they would just randomly lock down your block,。
you remember, and you would be trapped there.。
It was, you had no idea, right?。
You would just be randomly trapped in that quarantine zone.。
And not only was COVID still going on,。
a war started.。
Ukraine was attacked by Russia,。
and this left lots of people, refugees,。
running out of Ukraine to other countries.。
And with this war came the threat of nuclear, nuclear war,。
and a lot of sanctions were happening against Russia,。
and so because of that, energy prices went up,。
and the markets went crazy,。
and we don't know, it's going up and down,。
up and down, up and down.。
And on top of that, 2022, the queen died,。
and that was a very, just shocking thing,。
that the queen had reigned for so many years, and she died.。
But it wasn't all negative, it wasn't all negative.。
It was a tough year, but it wasn't all negative.。
Travel started to ease up.。
Who's ready to travel again?。
Yeah, good, I see a couple people admitting it.。
And not only was traveling starting to go around,。
we had the best football World Cup match ever, finals ever.。
A lot of people love Messi, and I'm not a Messi fan,。
but I'm happy for Messi fans, he finally won it.。
And our world has gotten bigger in terms of population.。
We are now at eight billion people.。
Wow, eight billion people.。
And so 2022, I would say was a year of uncertainty.。
There's social and political uncertainty,。
still protests around the world,。
and in Peru and different countries.。
There's economical and financial uncertainty,。
the fear of recession and housing markets going down,。
and we don't know what's gonna happen with the markets.。
The global health uncertainty,。
we don't know how the pandemic is gonna end,。
or when it's gonna end, or if it's gonna continue on.。
And then there's environmental uncertainty,。
the threat of global warming and climate change.。
There's so much uncertainty in our world.。
And not only is there uncertainty in our world,。
there was also uncertainty in Jesus' time.。
There was the Romans controlling everything, right?。
And then there was also the Jewish extremists。
called the Zealots, and they were trying to do something。
to uprise against the Romans.。
There was uncertainty.。
Was Rome continue, would Rome continue to take over Israel?。
Or would Israel finally be free?。
And the disciples were like,。
you're supposed to be the Messiah,。
but you're leaving us?。
You're leaving us?。
Where are you going?。
In the place you're going, we cannot come?。
But you're supposed to be the Messiah.。
You're supposed to save us.。
And Jesus says this in John 14, verse 27, he says this,。
peace I leave with you, peace I give to you,。
not as the world gives, not as the world do I give to you,。
not as the world gives do I give to you.。
Let not your hearts be troubled,。
neither let them be afraid.。
Jesus promises peace.。
Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you.。
How would you define peace?。
How would you define peace?。
All right, go around with someone beside you。
and share what your definition of peace is.。
You have 20 seconds.。
It's interactive, yeah, talk with people around you.。
Go, what is your definition of peace?。
- Sleep well.。
- Sleep well, yeah, I would like it.。
Okay, what is your definition of peace?。
Joseph said sleep well, shout it out.。
Calm, okay, calm.。
Jesus, okay, very good, very biblical answer.。
Nowadays, we define peace。
is like sitting on this beach, right?。
Just peace, just nothing going on,。
the waves crashing in and out,。
our hands and our feet on the sand.。
We define peace as an absence of conflict.。
No conflict means peace, no war means peace.。
Avoidance of trouble, of struggles, of poverty,。
we define peace as avoidance, absence.。
And we define peace as being relaxed,。
resting, comfortable, good night's sleep.。
And Jesus, in Jewish culture, they would say shalom, right?。
You guys have been to Israel, they would say shalom,。
shalom, peace be with you.。
And that was a way that they would greet each other。
and then they would say bye to each other.。
And I think it was maybe 10 years ago,。
people, teenagers would say peace,。
when they say goodbye, right?。
Peace, bye, peace, something like that.。
But Jesus isn't saying peace, bye, see you later.。
Jesus is saying something more.。
Firstly, he says peace I leave with you.。
It's as if he's saying that I am peace,。
I provide you peace.。
He says my peace I give you.。
It's a personal peace.。
It's not just any peace.。
He also says this, I do not give to you as the world gives.。
It is prized, it is set apart.。
His peace is different from the world.。
Peace is not just bye, peace is something different.。
And I believe this, peace does not come from your situation.。
Peace comes from your foundation.。
Let me repeat that.。
Peace does not come from your situation,。
but it comes from your foundation.。
The cause of peace,。
we're gonna learn a couple things today.。
The four things we're gonna learn.。
The cause of peace, the call to make peace,。
the challenge of seeking peace in tough times,。
and the consequence of peace.。
The cause, the call, the challenge, and the consequence.。
The first thing is the cause for peace.。
Who is the cause for peace?。
Jesus says my peace I give to you.。
God's name, one of God's name.。
When Gideon was raising an altar,。
he called Yahweh, Lord, as the Lord of peace.。
That's one of his names.。
Jesus, his name is the Prince of Peace.。
For to us a child is born.。
He shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,。
Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace.。
God is the source of peace.。
His name is peace.。
Jesus is the Prince of Peace.。
And Paul also says this,。
that the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace.。
Love, joy, peace.。
Peace is one of the fruits of the Spirit.。
It comes from depending on the Holy Spirit.。
It's not from ourselves.。
It is given by the Lord.。
It's given by the Lord.。
I was in the Philippines and we were doing a mission trip.。
Who's been to the Philippines?。
Raise your hand.。
Ni hao, raise your hand.。
Yes, good.。
I was in the Philippines.。
We were with a missions team together.。
And on our way back from Cebu or another city,。
we had to pass through Manila, okay?。
And to pass through Manila,。
we had to show our passports once again。
to go back to Hong Kong.。
And we were on the trip.。
I think there was like 10 of us or something like that.。
And once we were in Manila, everything was good.。
And we were about to pass customs。
to go to Hong Kong to our next flight.。
And once we were at customs,。
one of the guys was like, "Oh no."。
And I looked at him, I was like, "What happened?"。
And he's like, "He left his passport on the plane."。
Has anybody done that before?。
You know, the front pocket?。
Yeah, has anybody put their passport in the front pocket。
and forgot it?。
That's what he did.。
And at that time, I was thinking, "Oh no.。
"I guess we're staying in Manila for a couple more days.。
"I guess we'll go to the consulate and get it.。
"If anything, we can stay a couple days。
"and the rest of the team can go first。
"and I'll stay with this guy.。
"We'll get a hotel and stay in Manila。
"and wait for his passport."。
Even though things were frustrating,。
I had a sense of peace.。
Peace knowing that God was in control.。
And we waited in this,。
we went to this office where it was like lost and found。
or something like that.。
And we asked them, "Can you get this passport?。
"This is the seat number."。
He left it in front here.。
And we were praying.。
We didn't know whether our flight was boarding.。
So there was a time race.。
We didn't know if we could board this flight.。
We didn't know what was gonna happen,。
but there was a sense of peace。
knowing that God was in control.。
And the passport arrived in time, thankfully.。
And we rushed off running for our flight。
and we made it back to Hong Kong.。
The cause of peace is God.。
True peace comes from knowing God is in control.。
And what happens is we need to place our faith in Him.。
The cause of peace is God.。
And what He does is He calls us to make peace.。
Jesus says this, "Blessed are the peacemakers。
"for they will be called the children of God."。
Blessed are the peacemakers.。
Jesus calls us to be peacemakers.。
Also, Paul writes this in 2 Corinthians,。
"Finally, brothers, rejoice, aim for restoration,。
"comfort one another, agree with one another,。
"live in peace, and the God of love and peace。
"will be with you."。
Jesus calls us to not only have peace, but to make peace.。
And that's not always easy to make peace,。
especially when there's conflict, when people have hurt you.。
But Jesus is the ultimate example of making peace.。
Read this with me, Ephesians chapter two.。
Read this with me, one, two, three.。
"For He, Christ, Himself, is our peace,。
"who has made us both Jews and Gentiles one,。
"and has broken down in His flesh。
"the dividing wall of hostility。
"by abolishing the law of commandments。
"expressed in ordinances that He might create in Himself。
"one new man in the place of two, so making peace."。
Jesus is the ultimate example of making peace.。
And how did He make peace?。
He made peace by dying on the cross for us.。
There was conflict between us and God because of our sin.。
And so Jesus had to die to make peace。
between this relationship.。
And so the first thing that Jesus calls us。
to make peace with is peace with God,。
as you see in the next slide, peace with God.。
It was purchased by God, it is personal,。
it was purchased on the cross, and it reconciles us to God.。
And in order for us to make peace with God,。
what is required is for us to confess,。
agree that God has died for us,。
and that we are sinners, confession.。
The second thing that God calls us to make peace。
is with others.。
Because Jesus died on the cross and made peace。
between God and us.。
He set an example for us.。
Because God first loved us, we also should love others.。
He brought peace between the hostilities,。
between Jews and Gentiles.。
Before Jews had the law, they were the promised people.。
Gentiles were outsiders,。
but Jesus brought these people together.。
Now they are one body in Christ through faith.。
We are reconciled to each other through Christ.。
We are a community, one body of Christ.。
I was in Taiwan, we were in Taiwan for a mission trip.。
There's a lot of peace needed in mission trips,。
just so you know.。
And in this mission trip,。
there was a group of us that were very normal,。
just normal, cool people.。
And then there was another group that was very high energy.。
We'd go out there, yeah, let's go share the gospel,。
yeah, let's go meet people.。
And then there was another group that was very slow。
and sick and tired.。
And so we had three groups of people on this mission trip.。
And there was a lot of peace that was needed to be made.。
The tired group would be like,。
oh, can we sleep a little longer?。
Can we be a little late?。
The high energy people were like, yo, let's go, let's go.。
Okay, that was me, I'm sorry.。
That was me.。
Let's go, let's do something.。
We're here, let's go meet people, let's share the gospel.。
And the tired people would be like,。
ah, I'm a little bit tired, feeling a little sick.。
And there needs to be peace.。
We need to make peace.。
Jesus calls us to peace with God.。
Jesus calls us with peace with each other.。
And Jesus calls us to peace with ourselves.。
Jesus says this, or Paul says this,。
therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation.。
The old has passed away, behold, the new has come.。
Our God is a God that loves us.。
And God disciplines the ones he loves.。
And in this process of being disciplined,。
it takes time and it takes us accepting our weaknesses。
and it takes peace, peace accepting ourselves。
and this process.。
Paul also says this, now may the God of peace himself。
sanctify you completely and may your whole spirit。
and soul and body be kept blameless。
at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.。
The peace of God will sanctify us, discipline us.。
And we especially need this peace。
in tough, challenging times.。
Jesus says this, I have said these things to you。
that in me, you may have peace.。
In the world, you will have tribulation,。
but take heart, I have overcome the world.。
Jesus says we will have trials, we will have tough times,。
we'll have tough financial times,。
we'll have times we're going through physical health。
difficulties, friendship difficulties,。
we will have challenging times with each other,。
with ourselves, but God says that he will be our peace.。
In him, we may have peace.。
Paul also tells us, do not be anxious about anything,。
but in everything by prayer and supplication。
with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God。
and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding,。
will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.。
In the midst of this tough times, difficult times,。
Jesus says that we should not be anxious,。
but in prayer, we should rely on him,。
that his peace would be with us.。
I was at a summer camp recently,。
I was at a summer camp recently,。
in the summer, not that recent, I guess,。
and I was kayaking, and I was kayaking with a bunch of kids,。
and these kids were like, oh, let's get Johnny,。
let's flip his kayak, and so when he flipped my kayak,。
I actually had my phone in a waterproof case,。
but not a floating case, it was a case that sank,。
and so when my kayak flipped,。
and my phone was around my neck,。
it also sank to the bottom,。
and so many things were happening,。
when you get flipped, the water, you're trying to grab air,。
some things are floating, some things are sinking,。
you don't know what's gonna happen,。
your eyes may be burning 'cause of the salt,。
and then I realized, oh, my phone is not floating,。
it has sunk, and it was the muddiest waters ever,。
it was zero visibility,。
and so I lost my phone at this camp,。
and you could be very frustrated,。
you could blame these kids, you could blame yourself,。
you can blame God, God, why you send me here to help out,。
and I lose my phone,。
and it's not a nice feeling losing your phone,。
all your contacts are there,。
you feel disconnected from the world,。
but at that time, in the midst of these circumstances,。
I still had a sense of peace,。
my attitude was, well, God didn't want me。
to have a phone this weekend,。
God wanted me to focus on serving the Lord,。
and loving the people there,。
and that was my attitude, honestly, that was my attitude,。
and all these worries about all these appointments,。
or these people coming to message me,。
I was just like, I'll just leave it up to you, Lord,。
somehow, it will work out, there was a sense of peace,。
when we put our problems in His hands,。
He puts His peace in our hearts,。
peace with God, peace with others,。
peace with ourselves, peace in challenging times,。
and the consequence of peace is this,。
the consequence of peace is this,。
deceit in the heart of those who devise evil,。
but those who plan peace have joy,。
the promise of peace comes with joy,。
when we experience the peace of God,。
there is also a sense of joy,。
knowing that He is in control, that He is with us,。
and lastly, blessed are the peacemakers,。
for they shall be called the sons of God,。
when we are making peace with God, with others,。
with ourselves, we are doing what God has called us to do。
as His children, we are called to be like our Father,。
like Jesus, Jesus is the Prince of Peace,。
and we're called to be peacemakers,。
and when we do that, we are blessed by the Lord,。
the consequence of peace is joy and happiness,。
joy and it's being blessed by our Heavenly Father,。
and the blessings might not come on this earth,。
our blessings might come in the life that comes after,。
the consequence of peace is joy and blessing from our Lord,。
and so I said earlier,。
that peace comes not from your situation,。
the true peace comes from your foundation,。
and so when our peace with God upward,。
when our peace with God upward is fully secure,。
then we can truly have peace with others outward,。
and we have truly have peace with ourselves,。
when our foundation is strong,。
our foundation, our relationship with God。
is peaceful and full of joy,。
then we can truly have peace with others and ourselves,。
and in tough situations.。
So how do we have peace in times of uncertainty?。
How do we have peace?。
Peace does not come from your situation,。
but from your foundation,。
and lastly this, peace equals love,。
faith plus love plus wisdom plus perseverance,。
peace equals faith in God that He is in control,。
that He loves us,。
and He gives me wisdom to face this situation,。
this challenging situation,。
and in this challenging situation,。
I will need perseverance,。
because life is challenging,。
life is challenging,。
in my relationships with others,。
to have peace, I need to have faith。
that God first loved,。
first is the God of peace,。
and He's called me to love others,。
and He gives me wisdom to know how to connect with others,。
and to make peace with others,。
and connecting with others,。
and making peace with others is not easy,。
it requires hard work,。
it requires perseverance,。
and so today, what is your foundation?。
What is your foundation?。
As the band comes up,。
I just want us to close our eyes,。
what is our foundation of peace?。
What are we relying on?。
Are we relying on ourselves。
as the foundation of peace?。
If we're relying on ourselves for the foundation of peace,。
then if things go wrong,。
then our lives will just go up and down,。
if we're relying on our bank account for peace,。
if those numbers go up,。
or if those numbers go down,。
that's what we're gonna rely on,。
and it's gonna cause us to go up and down,。
what is our foundation of peace?。
Is God our foundation of peace?。
Jesus says this,。
"A wise man builds his house upon a rock."。
A house upon a rock,。
'cause when the waves come crashing,。
it will stand firm.。
My prayer to you guys is that Jesus is your foundation,。
your strong foundation,。
you're rooted in him,。
you place your faith fully on him,。
you depend on him for wisdom,。
you know that you are loved,。
and that you persevere with his spirit.。
Let us pray,。
Heavenly Father,。
we thank you that you promised peace to us,。
that you are our peace.。
In this world of uncertainty,。
as we close off 2022,。
we don't know what the next year will bring,。
but we know that if our foundation,。
the foundation of our peace is you,。
we can go through any storm,。
any trial,。
anything that comes our way,。
'cause you are our peace.。
Bless us, Lord,。
help us to be peacemakers,。
help us to depend on you.。
In Christ's name we pray,。
amen.。
Let us stand up and respond.。
