(silence)。
He gives a great sermon on Ephesus。
and they were doing church the right way,。
but they didn't have the right heart.。
They didn't love with the first love of Jesus.。
And today we're talking about Smyrna.。
Has anybody been to Smyrna before?。
It is near Ephesus, actually.。
It is only 80 kilometers north of Ephesus.。
It was known for its architecture.。
It was known as a rich city.。
It was known as a seaport.。
As you see here, it's very close to Athens and Rome.。
It was known as a seaport.。
It was also known, according to some of the research。
that I went into, it was known for myrrh.。
So you hear Smyrna, myrrh.。
And do you guys know what myrrh is?。
Anybody dressed in myrrh today?。
No? Okay.。
Myrrh was used as perfume。
and also more commonly used as embodiment, right?。
And so in Egypt, they have mummies。
and they used myrrh a lot.。
Possibly myrrh that was used for Jesus came from Smyrna.。
We don't know exactly,。
but possibly that was one of the trades,。
major trades that they had.。
And Smyrna, we will begin this letter in verse eight.。
So the angel of the church in Smyrna write,。
"These are the words of him who is the first and the last,。
"who died and came to life again.。
"I know your afflictions and your poverty,。
"yet you are rich.。
"I know about the slander of those who say they are Jews。
"and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.。
"Be not afraid of what you are about to suffer.。
"I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison。
"to test you and you will suffer persecution for 10 days.。
"Be faithful, even to the point of death.。
"And I will give you life as your victor's crown.。
"Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says。
"to the churches.。
"The one who is victorious will not be hurt at all。
"by the second death."。
So we see here that in the first chapter of Revelations,。
Jesus introduces himself as the Alpha and the Omega.。
And once again, he introduces himself here。
as the first and the last, the Alpha and the Omega.。
The city of Smyrna was actually overtaken by a Lydian king.。
And it was torn to pieces and it was only a village.。
But then Alexander the Great saw the city。
and he had a vision that this city would become great again.。
And so Jesus might be playing on this death of the city。
and resurrection of the city.。
And that's why he might be introducing himself。
once again and emphasizing that he is the Alpha。
and the Omega, the first and the last.。
And Jesus says that he knows, he knows.。
Pastor James says last week, he reminded us,。
Jesus knew what was happening in the church of Ephesus.。
And he also knows what is happening in Smyrna here.。
And he says, "I see three challenges.。
I see your afflictions.。
I see three challenges that you are going through。
and that you are about to go through."。
And these are the three challenges, the three Ps,。
poverty, persecution, and prison or imprisonment.。
And the first thing he says in verse nine is,。
"I know your afflictions and your poverty.。
I know your poverty."。
Why were they poor?。
Why were they poor?。
What was the religious dominance of that time in that city?。
That city, just like Ephesus,。
was filled with all sorts of gods, right?。
Gods to Athena and Apollos。
and all those other Greek sort of gods.。
It was full of those temples in that city.。
And so if you followed Jesus Christ。
and you were a Christian,。
possibly you couldn't get a job in that city.。
You couldn't get a job.。
And if you were in charge of trade,。
you were trying to trade something,。
and they were like,。
"Oh, has your product been blessed by Apollos or Athena。
or one of these gods?"。
And, "No, no, these products have been blessed by God."。
They would be like, "Why would I trade with you?。
Why would I trade with you?"。
And so these Christians were facing poverty.。
They were poor because they were Christian,。
because of their belief in Jesus Christ.。
They possibly could not get a job because of their faith.。
And also their trade was being affected.。
You know, I went to India several years ago.。
I've been to India a couple of times.。
And as I went to India。
and got in touch with some of the Christians。
that were there,。
did you know that in India,。
you have to place,。
like some other countries around the world,。
you have to place your religious status on your passport.。
You have to claim whether you're Hindu or a Christian。
or Catholic or...。
And because some of these people came in India,。
came to know Jesus,。
they decided to change their passport。
from Hindu to Christian.。
And some of them came from Hindu families.。
How do you think their families would take that?。
That they would change on their official status,。
that they've changed their religion?。
And some of them could not get a job。
because they were no longer Hindus.。
They were following Christ.。
I had dinner recently with a church member of mine。
from Toronto,。
who now works in Hong Kong.。
And she manages several portfolios for the company.。
And she would go out and meet other companies.。
And she's in charge of different trade deals。
or manufacturing deals.。
And a lot of them would go under the table and be like,。
"Hey, if you set up this deal between my company and yours,。
I'll give you something under the table, tax-free,。
so you can be rich."。
So that, it's a win-win, right?。
Your company wins, I win,。
and most importantly, you win as well.。
And she said a lot of people in her position。
already would be super rich, super rich.。
But she has made an oath。
because of her belief in Jesus Christ,。
she would not take some of these bribes.。
She's willing to stand for her faith.。
She might've lost monetarily on some of these things,。
but yet she has chosen to obey Christ.。
And Jesus says to this church,。
and also to her, I believe,。
that you are rich, maybe not in terms of monetary,。
but you are rich in faith.。
You're rich in obeying God.。
You're rich in spiritual gifts and spiritual treasures.。
'Cause where your heart is, your treasure is also.。
And Jesus is saying here。
that you might not have gotten that job,。
might not have gotten that trade deal,。
but you are rich because your treasure is in heaven.。
Your treasure comes from the Lord.。
And so this was the first affliction,。
first tribulation that this church went through,。
that they were poor monetarily,。
but yet a rich church, a rich church.。
The second thing that they went through is persecution.。
And we see that in verse nine.。
I know about the slander of those who say。
they are Jews and are not,。
but are a synagogue of heaven.。
Oh, sorry, synagogue of Satan.。
The Jews back then had special entitlement。
to not have to worship the Roman gods.。
The Jews had the God of Israel, right?。
They had special privilege to not have to worship。
the Roman gods and they could just worship their own God,。
the God of Israel.。
And they had that privilege.。
However, the Christians threatened this entitlement.。
This entitlement because of several things.。
The first was an accusation of cannibalism.。
Okay, so they had communion, right?。
And so apparently they were eating the body of Christ。
and drinking the blood of Christ.。
And Jews were like these Christians, they're cannibalists.。
They're practicing cannibalism.。
How could they, right?。
And so they would complain maybe to the Roman authorities。
and they would exercise those who were Christians。
because of what they were doing.。
The second thing is these Christians would call each other,。
what do you guys call each other?。
Brothers and sisters in Christ.。
And the Romans had a very specific family system.。
They had a very specific citizen and slave system.。
And so for them to call each other just brothers and sisters。
and accept everyone into this family,。
it was as if they were going against。
the Roman family system.。
And so these Christian Jews were not accepted。
by their own people.。
They were not accepted by their own people。
because of their faith and devotion to Jesus Christ.。
Have you ever been challenged to believe Jesus Christ。
in the midst of people not accepting you?。
My father, he was the first person。
to be a Christian in his family.。
And he came to know Jesus because he went to a Christian,。
a Christian school in Hong Kong.。
And then, hi dad, by the way.。
He's always listening.。
He had a scare.。
The first scare was that Bruce Lee died, right?。
Bruce Lee, how could Bruce Lee die of cancer?。
He looks like he's invincible in these Hong Kong movies.。
And then the second scare that he had,。
he had this sort of, yeah,。
some sort of tumor on his hand, on his wrist.。
And he was very scared that he himself。
possibly had a tumor and had cancer.。
And those two things led him to Jesus Christ.。
And my dad is a very intellectual, brilliant person.。
And he had inspiration, inspiration to become a doctor,。
to be an engineer, all those Asian jobs, right?。
And so when he told my grandparents, his parents,。
that he was gonna go to seminary,。
my dad threatened to kick him out of the house.。
My grandma was on her knees begging,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
Don't go, don't go.。
And yet my dad chose to follow Jesus Christ.。
And he became the first in his family to know Jesus Christ.。
And his obedience to Christ is a big reason。
why I choose to follow Jesus Christ.。
Are we willing to follow Jesus Christ。
in the midst of persecution。
when the people around us do not accept us?。
Maybe our own families do not accept us.。
Are we willing to follow Jesus Christ?。
My dad did.。
And years later, when my grandparents came to Canada,。
they came to our church.。
And eventually, they gave their lives to Jesus Christ.。
(audience applauding)。
And so my grandparents, who are no longer with us,。
they are with the Lord in paradise.。
And I hope to see them once again.。
And I know I will see them once again, not I hope.。
I will see them.。
I will.。
I will see them.。
(audience laughing)。
Poverty, persecution.。
And the last thing is the threat of prison.。
Do not be afraid of what you are about to suffer.。
I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison。
to test you, and you will suffer persecution for 10 days.。
Prison.。
You know, prison nowadays,。
it might not be as bad as back then, all right?。
Back then, the Roman prisons were probably rat infested,。
feces everywhere, right?。
Little light, little food.。
Prison was not really a place that you would just be there。
for a short period of time.。
Prison was basically, you were gonna go to trial。
and possibly execution, right?。
It was a short-term stay.。
It wasn't like nowadays, you can be in prison for 10 years。
and survive and have some sort of survival.。
A lot of times, the Christians or the people。
that were in prison were later sent to the Colosseums。
where they would be eaten by animals。
in these war festivities.。
Prison was what Jesus said that they would face,。
that they would suffer.。
The devil would put some of you in prison。
because of your faith in Jesus Christ.。
And it says here that you will suffer persecution。
for 10 days.。
Now, we don't know exactly what these 10 days means, right?。
It could literally mean 10 days.。
Some theologians think it could be a period,。
10-year period.。
Some thought, oh, it was following the Roman Caesars.。
There were 10 Caesars.。
It could possibly be those 10 Caesars.。
You're gonna suffer through those 10 Caesars.。
We don't know exactly.。
But they were gonna suffer persecution.。
And one of the people that suffered persecution。
was a pastor there called Polycarp.。
You guys heard of Polycarp?。
And he existed there from 69 to 156, 69 to 156.。
All right, Jesus died around 33 AD,。
so a period after Jesus where the church had been built up.。
And the story is this,。
that imperial worship became more and more prevalent。
in that city, right?。
So not only just worshiping the Roman gods,。
but worshiping Caesar, right?。
And so there was sort of this ritual。
that you would have to pay tribute to Caesar once a year.。
You would have to claim Caesar as God,。
give him incense, and then you could be off in your way.。
And the Christians at that time were not willing to do that.。
And Polycarp himself was not willing to do that.。
And so the Roman officials sent guards towards him。
to arrest him.。
And he was an old man by then.。
He had served the Lord faithfully.。
And he offered food to the guards。
and, you know, hope you guys are okay.。
And these guards start to feel sorry.。
This is an old man.。
We really have to take him to the officials.。
But eventually they wanted to do their job.。
And so they took Polycarp towards the authorities。
and the officials there.。
And the officials said, "Polycarp, are you going。
to claim Caesar as God?"。
And he said these famous words,。
"Eighty and six years have I served Christ,。
nor has he ever done me any harm.。
How then can I blaspheme my King who saved me?。
I bless thee。
for。
fordeigning me worthy of this day and this hour。
that I may be among thy martyrs。
and drink the cup of my Lord Jesus Christ."。
His famous words.。
"Eighty and six years have I served.。
How could I blaspheme my King who has saved me?"。
So usually they would be nailed to a stake and burned.。
Polycarp was like, "You don't need to nail me.。
Just tie my hands. I will stand there.。
I will not flee."。
And he stood there and they lit up,。
as you can see in the next slide,。
lit up a fire underneath him.。
And some witnesses said in history。
that this flame did not engulf him.。
It burned, but it did not engulf him.。
Just like Daniel and Daniel's friends。
when he was challenged by Nebuchadnezzar.。
The flame did not burn him.。
It was a miracle.。
And then a soldier who was nearby,。
you see the soldier right there,。
he took his spear and stabbed him.。
And that is how he gave his life to Christ as a martyr.。
He gave his life to Christ just as Jesus said。
that some of you would be put in prison.。
Some of you would suffer and he did.。
And we see this church here,。
the three challenges that they went through.。
The first challenge was poverty.。
All right, they were rejected by the Romans.。
The people around them did not offer them jobs.。
They would not trade with them.。
They dealt with persecution,。
rejected by the Jews, their own people.。
These people, they're cannibals.。
These people, they're going against the Roman systems.。
The challenge of prison,。
they were rejected by the authorities。
who said you need to pay tribute to Caesar as God.。
And yet they stayed faithful.。
Jesus says they were experiencing poverty,。
yet they are rich because their treasure is in heaven.。
They were being persecuted by their own people,。
yet Jesus Christ accepts them into the family of Christ.。
We sang, we are a child of God.。
And they faced imprisonment,。
yet they were free in Jesus Christ.。
They were rich, accepted and free.。
What an amazing church.。
And I hope that is our church,。
that we would be rich in Christ,。
be a church that is a family of God,。
accepted by Christ as children of God.。
And we are free in Christ。
to go and proclaim his message wherever he calls us to.。
The Roman authorities could not hold this church,。
imprison them.。
And I hope that we, no matter who is going against us,。
that we would boldly proclaim the message of Christ,。
the gospel of Christ,。
rich, accepted and free.。
Amazing.。
And Jesus says this to finish off his letter to Smyrna,。
"Be faithful even to the point of death,。
and I will give you life as your victor's crown.。
Whoever has ears,。
let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches.。
The one who is victorious。
will not be hurt at all by the second death."。
Jesus says, "Be faithful.。
I will give you life as a victor's crown."。
Now, who wears crowns?。
Who wears crowns?。
Royalty, right?。
The Queen of England, right?。
Back then, who else wore crowns?。
A victor's crown.。
Those who competed。
in the games.。
The winners would get the victor's crown.。
And these Christians in Smyrna,。
nobody thought they were royalty.。
Nobody thought they were winning.。
They were poor.。
They were outcasted.。
But in Jesus' eyes, they were winners.。
They deserved a crown,。
a victor's crown,。
because of their faithfulness to Jesus.。
And Jesus here is saying,。
"Be faithful to the point of death,。
and I will give you life as a victor's crown."。
And so the message for the Church of Smyrna。
2,000 years ago,。
it's also a message to us.。
Are we willing to follow Jesus?。
Are you willing to follow Jesus。
in the midst of hardship,。
in the midst of poverty,。
in the face of poverty?。
Are we willing to follow Jesus?。
When there's temptations to take bribes,。
just like my friend from Toronto, who now works here,。
are we willing to follow Jesus, stand for Jesus?。
In the midst of being outcasted and persecution,。
are we willing to follow Jesus?。
My dad was facing persecution from his own father.。
If you go to seminary, I will kick you out of the house.。
But he was willing to obey Christ.。
And we see the fruit of his labor.。
Are we willing to go to the ends of the earth。
to share the love of Christ?。
There will be trials and tribulations.。
Jesus tells us that.。
If they persecuted me, will they not persecute you?。
Following Christ will not always be easy,。
but it will be worth it.。
Because where our treasure is, our heart is also.。
Will you choose victory in Christ。
or will you choose to be a victim?。
Oh, I feel sorry for myself.。
I'm a victim, you know.。
Or will we claim victory in Christ。
who has died and resurrected from death。
so that we could have a relationship with him?。
I'm gonna invite the praise team to come up。
as we close in prayer.。
Heavenly Father, we come before you.。
We thank you for what you have done on the cross.。
You have purchased for us a place in heaven.。
You have restored for us a relationship with you。
that was once lost.。
And Heavenly Father, I pray that you would help us。
in our situation, whatever we're facing,。
to be faithful to you,。
whether in our jobs, whether in our family,。
in whatever circumstances.。
Maybe we're being outcasted as a Christian.。
Oh, you Christian.。
They say at school or at work or wherever,。
but we would stand firm。
because your spirit gives us strength.。
Help us, Lord, in our weakness。
to be faithful to you,。
that we would one day go to heaven。
and you would say, "Good and faithful servant."。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
