It's been great.。
This series is on the church, and it's amazing to see how we as the church have grown throughout。
the years and how we can still continue to grow.。
And today we're talking about a hospitality-driven church.。
And Pastor John introduced this sermon for us, and he talked about this chair, right?。
How the church tries to just stand on one leg, right?。
Whether it's prayer, community, generosity, or the Word of God, they're trying to just。
stand on one leg, right?。
And maybe it's one amazing speaker, and they're just trying to depend on that.。
And Pastor James talked to us last week about gathering about God's Word.。
And what analogy did he use?。
It wasn't a chair, it was a?。
It was a stool, right?。
And the stool represented the Word of God, and the legs represented that each thing was。
the Word of God allowed us to have prayer, community, and hospitality.。
And today we're talking about sharing meals and taking communion together.。
And who likes food here?。
Yeah?。
Okay, some of you are on a diet.。
So my analogy this week is a table, and it's a round table, but I won't tell you what it。
means until the end.。
I remember I was in Sydney, and Hillsong has been going through all sorts of drama lately,。
but when I went to the church in Sydney, as you see in the next slide, I had a great time.。
The worship was amazing, the talk was amazing, and afterwards the welcoming team invited。
me to have a free lunch.。
And it was like, wow, you know, it was great company, it was great food, and then afterwards。
they drove me home also.。
So it was like, wow, such a great time of worshiping God together and having community。
together.。
And I remember in the next slide, I was in UK, and I joined this church, it was a Baptist。
church, and we had a time of mingling afterwards, and there was food and lunch afterwards, and。
it was just so good just connecting with the people there and talking to them about, you。
know, what I do and how I'm doing some mission work in other countries.。
And they're like, "Oh, we should partner together."。
It was so amazing.。
I remember this one time I went to New Zealand, and I was actually sitting beside somebody。
who went to church.。
And after the flight, they were like, "You should come over for a meal."。
And so I went over to their meal.。
Oh, I've known them for, I don't know, like 12 hours, that's the flight time.。
And they invited me over for a meal.。
And afterwards, I went to church with them, and they prayed over me because I was heading。
to do missions afterwards, to India to do missions.。
The meals I had with them and the times I shared with them, they were precious moments,。
precious moments of connecting not only with each other, but with the Lord.。
And this is what the early church did.。
It says in Acts chapter 2, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship,。
to the breaking of bread, and to prayer.。
And this word koinonia, fellowship, it also appears in 1 John chapter 1.。
And this is what it says, "That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which。
we have seen with our eyes, we have looked upon, that which we have seen and heard, we。
proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us.。
And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ."。
It says it very clearly here, that John has experienced Jesus and the things he's experienced。
because of Jesus, he's sharing it to them so that we can have fellowship with each other。
because we have fellowship with God.。
This word koinonia, fellowship, not only does it mean gathering and community, but it also。
means that we are participants, we are sharing something.。
We're sharing something.。
And the best example of this is, of course, the Trinity.。
The Trinity, right?。
The Trinity is three in one, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.。
They are sharing in fellowship.。
They are sharing love, communicating with each other, working with each other, yet there。
is unity.。
There is unity.。
God is the greatest example of fellowship, the three in one.。
And God created us.。
We were made in His image, and He created us also for this longing for connection, right?。
Who's experienced this longing for deep connection before in their life?。
Yeah, you've experienced it?。
There's this connection.。
We want to connect with people around us.。
And ultimately, God created us for a spiritual connection, a relationship with Him.。
And we see in these circles, right, that there's so many connections that God created.。
God created a relationship with Him first, and then with Adam and Eve, God created the。
relationship, connection with marriage, and with marriage came family, family, the church,。
and the society.。
And today, we're going to look at three different areas in the Bible of table fellowship.。
We're going to look at the Old Testament, we're going to look at the New Testament,。
and then we're going to look at the Eternal Testament or eternal times, OT, NT, and ET.。
I just try to make it rhyme, you know?。
OT, NT, and ET.。
Going home?。
Oh, yeah, ET, yeah, yeah.。
Yeah, go home.。
The first part we're going to look at is the Old Testament, and we're going to look at。
Exodus chapter 24 together.。
And so, this is what was happening.。
The Israelites, they had the great Exodus out of bondage, out of Egypt, and then they。
became free, and they arrived at Mount Sinai.。
Did you guys go to Mount Sinai during your Israel trip?。
No?。
I want to go to Mount Sinai.。
We'll hike off and maybe I'll experience the Lord there.。
It would be amazing, right?。
And so, what happened was Moses was on the mountain, right?。
And then they invited, you know, Moses and Aaron and the 70 elders.。
They went up, and they saw God at the Mount of Sinai.。
And on Mount Sinai, do you know what they did together?。
In verse 11, it says this, "He did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of。
Israel.。
They beheld God and ate and drank."。
They went up Mount Sinai, and God was there, and the elders saw him.。
And what did they do?。
They ate and they drank.。
They had fellowship with God on Mount Sinai.。
It must have been a nice picnic.。
I don't know what it was.。
They were eating, maybe more manna, or manna hadn't come yet, but special bread.。
The Old Testament is full of festivals.。
So on Mount Sinai, then God gave Moses what?。
The laws, the 10 commandments, right?。
And then Moses shared them with the people.。
And there was all these festivals, right?。
The Sabbath celebrates the rest that God had after creation.。
And on the Sabbath, the Jewish nation would eat together.。
They wouldn't work.。
They would gather together to remember what God had created and to rest.。
On the Passover, they were feasting to celebrate the Exodus.。
I remember in our church, we invited some Jewish people to come and share about the。
Passover, and it was so interesting.。
The roasted shank bone that they have represents the sacrifice that the people had to endure.。
The egg that they eat during Passover represents spring and the circle of life.。
The bitter herbs that they have represented the bitterness of slavery.。
The three pieces of unleavened bread represents the bread that the Israelites took with them。
when they fled Egypt.。
The salt water that they have during the Passover represents the tears that the slaves had.。
When they are eating the Passover meal, every part of the meal represents something that。
God did.。
Imagine eating together, remembering God together.。
There is both vertical fellowship with the Lord and horizontal fellowship with each other.。
There's more festivals.。
The first festivals of the first fruits is remembering God's providence.。
The festival of trumpets was a day of reminding people to reflect on themselves.。
There would be a big trumpet that would be blown, and people would be called to remember。
what they had done and repent before the Lord.。
They had this dipped apple in honey that wished everybody a good and sweet new year.。
The festival of tabernacles points to the commandment that God told them to stay temporarily。
in the tents in the desert before the temple was made.。
So we see here in the Old Testament, they ate.。
They ate with the Lord.。
The examples of the elders eating together, there was vertical worship, fellowship with。
the Lord when they ate.。
When they ate together with all these festivals, they remembered, they celebrated, they worshiped。
God for what they had done, how the Lord had saved them.。
And when they ate together, they also remembered and reflected upon their sins and what they。
had done wrong.。
Not only was there vertical fellowship with the Lord, there was horizontal fellowship。
with each other as they dined together with all these festivals.。
So that is the Old Testament, just a short glimpse of some of the things that they did。
in the Old Testament.。
We're going to look at the New Testament, and there's a famous New Testament story.。
There was a wedding.。
There was a wedding, and Jesus was attending with his mother.。
And you know how sometimes mothers are like, "Come on, son, do this," or "Do that."。
Anybody have a mother that sort of nudges?。
Yeah?。
Are you talking about Sandra?。
No?。
Okay, okay.。
Sometimes there's a mother that sort of nudges, "Sit properly," or "Fix your hair," or "Don't。
do this," or "Don't do that."。
And Jesus was at this wedding, and Mary was like, "Jesus, they're kind of running out。
of wine here.。
And if you don't have wine in a wedding, what's going to happen?。
You've run out of wine.。
What's going to happen?"。
It's sort of embarrassing, right?。
It's an embarrassment to the hosts, and people are probably just going to start going home.。
Pastor John's going to start going home, right?。
That's what he said.。
And so Jesus was like, look at this statement.。
"Woman, what does this have to do with me?。
My hour has not yet come."。
And his mother was like, "Just do whatever Jesus tells you."。
And so Jesus sees these six stone jars, okay?。
They're huge jars holding 20 to 30 gallons.。
They're huge.。
And do you know what these gallons or these stone jars, the water within them, are used。
for?。
What are they used for?。
Well, it says here, it says for purification, all right?。
Purification.。
So what would they wash?。
They wash their feet, right?。
Anybody have smelly feet that they need to wash?。
Don't tell me, I don't need to know.。
But imagine their dirty feet, right?。
They're wearing sandals.。
They're walking through the mud.。
You think they had cement, you know, pavements back then?。
They didn't.。
It was maybe...。
Maybe it rained, right?。
And it's raining and they're walking, you know?。
And so they arrived to the wedding.。
Of course, they need to wash, right?。
To the temple, they wash.。
And Jesus said to the servants, "Fill the jars with water."。
And they filled them to the brim.。
And he said to them, "Now draw some water and take it to the master of the feast."。
And they took it.。
Can you imagine those servants?。
They take...。
It should be water filled.。
Should I take it to the master?。
Do you think it turned to wine right at the stone?。
Or do you think they needed some sort of faith to walk and go towards the master?。
And they give it to the master.。
And the master says...。
What does he say?。
"Everyone serves the good wine first.。
And when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine, that you have kept the good wine。
until now."。
Jesus ate with these people.。
He participated with these people.。
He kept the party going.。
That's what Jesus did.。
He kept the party going.。
It was about to die down and he was like, "I'm going to resurrect this party to life."。
So Jesus ate with the people.。
He had horizontal fellowship with these people.。
Not only did he have dinners and wedding banquets, he also reclined with people that weren't。
so popular.。
We'll see in the next verse, he ate at a Levite's house.。
And there was a large company of tax collectors there.。
Tax collectors, they have a special word, sinners and tax collectors.。
That's how bad they were.。
These were people that betrayed us.。
They're working for the Romans.。
They're tax collectors.。
Jesus also ate at the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table.。
And so we see here from Jesus, the lessons to be learned is that he kept the party going.。
He kept the wedding going.。
There was horizontal connection.。
He attended these dinners with people that believed in him and also people that needed。
him.。
He had horizontal connection and he also invites us to vertical worship and connection when。
he invites us to his dinner.。
And that is communion.。
And in Luke chapter 22, it says this, "He took bread and when he had given thanks, he。
broke it and said to them, 'This is my body broken for you.。
Do this in remembrance of me.'。
And likewise, the cup that they had, he said this, 'This cup that is poured out for you。
is the new covenant in my blood.'"。
Jesus invites us to a dinner that connects with himself.。
A vertical connection with the Lord himself.。
And when we partake in communion, we are united with Christ.。
We are united because we eat his flesh and we drink his blood, which represents his body。
sacrificed for us and his blood poured out for us for sins.。
When we partake in communion, we are united as a body of Christ, horizontally with each。
other.。
It says in 1 Corinthians, "Because there is one loaf, we who are many are one body, for。
we share in that one loaf."。
We are saved because of one person, one body, one sacrifice.。
In communion, we are connected with each other as children of God.。
And lastly, in communion, we are united in hope.。
And what is our hope?。
What is our hope?。
Our hope is not just in this world.。
Our hope isn't in the stock market that it will do wonders for us.。
It's going up and down, up and down, right?。
Or down for John.。
That's what he said, not me.。
Our hope is that one day God will come again and that there will be a new heaven and a。
new earth.。
We're not made for this world.。
We are made for eternity.。
Eternity.。
And in communion, we are taking part in eternity.。
And we're going to look at eternal times now, our eternal testaments.。
Let's look at Isaiah chapter 25.。
Isaiah, the prophet, prophesied this about eternity, about heaven.。
On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast。
of well-aged wine, a rich food full of marrow, of aged wine and well-refined.。
Wow.。
This sounds like a good menu.。
You guys salivating already?。
Good wine, good food, rich food.。
Wow.。
In eternity, we're going to eat with the Lord on his mountain.。
Wow.。
Let's look at Revelations, what it says.。
Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of the great multitude.。
Great multitude.。
Imagine just a great multitude of people in heaven, all gathered together.。
What are they doing?。
This is what they say.。
Hallelujah.。
For the Lord, our God, the Almighty reigns.。
Let us rejoice and exalt and give him the glory for the marriage of the lamb has come。
and his bride has made herself ready.。
And the angel said to me, "Write this.。
Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the lamb."。
In heaven, we're going to be feasting with the Lord.。
The marriage supper of the lamb, celebrating us being in eternity with the Lord because。
of what he's done.。
And when does eternity start?。
When does eternity start?。
In John chapter 17, verse 3, it says this.。
Now this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom you。
have sent.。
When you know Jesus, eternity starts.。
Do you know Jesus?。
Because if you know Jesus, eternity has started.。
What can we learn from eternity?。
These passages of eternity in the Bible.。
We see here that there's this triangle, right?。
Horizontal is human to human connection.。
And then God, as we, as Christians and followers of God, as we get closer to God, what happens。
in this triangle?。
What happens?。
As we get closer to God, we become closer to each other.。
Does that make sense?。
That's how a triangle works.。
Just so you know, if you're awake.。
As we get closer to God, as we become more like Jesus Christ, as the Holy Spirit is working。
within us, reminding us to repent and to become more like him, molding us, sanctifying us,。
we become closer to God and we become closer to each other.。
Just like in 1 John, it said, when we read before, we have fellowship with God and with。
each other.。
This is where the horizontal fellowship connection meets the vertical connection.。
Table fellowship can be viewed as a rehearsal for eternal fellowship.。
Table fellowship can be viewed as a rehearsal for eternal fellowship.。
When believers gather together with the Holy Spirit inside of them and their bodies as。
the temple of God to do the will of the Lord, each table fellowship we take can be considered。
a step towards eternity.。
When there is both vertical and horizontal connection, we edge closer in our relationship。
with God and with each other.。
Table fellowship can be regarded as an eternal action.。
The importance of eating together as Christians gather is that it's not just temporary.。
We're doing something eternal.。
We're spending time with people that will be in heaven.。
We're connecting with God and praying for the food.。
We're spending time with each other as a step towards eternity, a rehearsal for eternal。
fellowship.。
That one day, that amazing marriage supper of the Lamb, we are going towards that.。
This table, if you look at it from a bird's eye view, you'll see it.。
What will you see?。
You'll see it in the next slide.。
It's a point.。
That's the point I'm trying to make.。
That as we go closer to God and to each other, we will arrive.。
We're arriving closer and closer to that eternal marriage supper of the Lamb.。
I'm going to end with a story.。
The story is this.。
Everybody knows what I like to play.。
What do I like to play?。
Basketball.。
I play basketball at the basketball court.。
Everybody knows me so well.。
I was playing basketball with a high school student and he brought a friend.。
We started playing ball together more and more.。
So what happened was this.。
I was like, "Hey, you want to grab dinner sometime?"。
Who do you usually eat with?。
I know in Hong Kong it's so small, you're basically eating with everybody in the restaurant.。
But usually you eat with people you know, that you're friends with, that you connect。
well with.。
I felt like, "Okay, we've been playing ball for so long together.。
Let's go eat."。
So we ate together.。
That started a friendship.。
There was this one time, he was in high school, and we started a friendship.。
He was like, "What are you doing tomorrow?"。
I'm like, "I'm going to camp, to church camp."。
He's like, "Oh, I like camp."。
So I'm like, "Well, why don't you come?"。
I call up Carmen.。
I'm like, "Yo, there's this kid.。
He wants to come to camp tomorrow."。
It's a youth camp.。
He signs up, and he comes to camp.。
And slowly he gets to know God more.。
And I invite him out.。
We hand out food boxes every week, and I invite him out because he likes to help out.。
And I invite him out to our fellowship time, and he starts coming to fellowship every week.。
He starts coming to hand out boxes every other week, food boxes every other week.。
And three months later, I decided, I was like, "I'm going to fully share the gospel with。
him."。
And so we go to, we play basketball, and then afterwards we have dinner together.。
And so there's the three of us, and we have dinner together.。
And then afterwards, I'm just like, "Hey, I want to share something with you."。
And I draw the gospel for him.。
And I explain it fully to him, and I explain fully how Jesus is our only way to eternity.。
And through this meal, he asked Jesus into his life.。
And so what started off was an introduction meal, became regular fellowship, and then。
became a rehearsal for eternal fellowship because he asked Jesus into his life, and。
that's the beginning of eternal life.。
And so my question to you as we look at this empty table is, who do you want to invite。
to this table?。
Who do you want to invite to this table?。
As the worship band comes up, I'm going to ask us to reflect on who has God placed in。
your life?。
Maybe it's a business person, it's a coworker, maybe it's a fellow student in your life.。
Maybe these people are struggling, or maybe they're lonely.。
Maybe you're good friends with them and you have dinner regularly.。
How will you use the table to lead people towards eternity?。
How will you use the table the Lord has given you to lead people towards eternity?。
Maybe it's your relative because there's a holiday coming up and it's a family holiday.。
Maybe this is the time to use the table, the dinner table fellowship as an opportunity。
to lead them closer towards eternity.。
Let us take a moment to reflect, and then we will respond with a song later.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for the examples you've taught us in the Bible.。
Feasting is not just about food.。
It can be so much more.。
It can be about horizontal fellowship with each other, and ultimately vertical fellowship。
with you.。
I thank you, Lord, for the different people that you've placed in our lives.。
Give us spiritual eyes, Lord, that we might see the needs of the people, and that we might。
use this table as a tool to lead them one step closer towards eternity.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
