Thank you, Bonnie, and thank you to the worship team.。
That was amazing today.。
Well done.。
What I'm gonna say actually pains me,。
deeply.。
I've been involved in church leadership for around 40 years,。
and yet the biggest conflicts that I've witnessed。
in churches across the world,。
the thing that has caused more arguments。
and caused most collateral damage。
is worship in church.。
Ironically, that the very thing that should be uniting us。
has often turned into what I call worship wars.。
And I'm not just talking about worship wars.。
I'm talking about worship wars。
that are not just about the church,。
but about the world.。
And I'm not just talking about worship wars,。
but about the world.。
I'm talking about worship wars。
that are not just about the church,。
but about the world.。
And I'm not just talking about worship wars,。
but about the world.。
I'm talking about worship wars。
that are not just about the church,。
but about the world.。
And I'm not just talking about worship wars,。
but about the world.。
For the Father is seeking such people to worship Him.。
God is spirit,。
and those who worship Him must worship in spirit。
and in truth.。
But what is in spirit and truth?。
Is it a certain style of music,。
dress, and/or liturgy?。
Is it the proper religious heritage。
or denominational affiliation?。
Only in the last couple of weeks,。
I heard someone suggesting。
that we should not be singing songs。
that were written by a Catholic author.。
Is it a required level of biblical knowledge?。
We just sang "The Heart of Worship,"。
and Yang, you sang so beautifully,。
a song by Matt Redmond.。
What I wanna share tonight is the story behind that song.。
There's a church in the UK, Soul Survivor Church.。
It began its ministry in 1993.。
It's just outside London。
and was at the forefront of what we call modern worship.。
They had innovative weekend services,。
worship arts productions,。
and active use of multimedia were all incorporated。
to make church so-called relevant。
to people's lives and their needs.。
But even with all of this,。
somehow over time,。
congregation members turned。
from active worship participants。
to silent connoisseurs.。
Something amidst the music and the further was missing.。
The lines got blurred。
and the heart of worship and praise was missing.。
It was at this moment。
that the pastor of Soul Survivor Church took drastic action.。
Mike Pilavachi removed everything from the worship services.。
There were no microphones, no drums, no guitars,。
no sound systems, they were all gone.。
Sundays had no worship leader.。
There were no instruments or amplified sound.。
Can you imagine it?。
The attendees of this Watford Church couldn't at first,。
but they had much more than powerful sound systems。
and eye-catching multimedia.。
They had their voices and their hearts.。
And as soon as their voices were lifted together to God,。
as soon as their hearts were united in prayer,。
the silence disappeared。
and the period of apathy was demolished.。
Step by step, the equipment was returned.。
But since then, it has never played a more important role。
than people's voices.。
Their worship pastor at the time。
was a man called Matt Redmond.。
And he wrote the heart of worship。
during these unusual worship sessions.。
It was just his personal reflection。
of what was happening around him.。
All the staff that was forming the story behind the song。
and the result is the song we know.。
When the music fades, all is stripped away.。
And I simply come, longing just to bring something。
that is worth or bless your heart.。
I'm coming back to the heart of worship.。
And it's all about you.。
It's all about you, Jesus.。
The heart of worship is also about self-examination,。
not only in matters of worship, but in our lives.。
Jesus came into the world to build a people。
who would be true worshipers.。
In the reading that Bonnie read,。
and Bonnie read superbly, amazing.。
We saw the Pharisees rejecting the one。
who called out to them.。
Jesus said, "These people honour me with their lips,。
"but their heart is far from me.。
"In vain do they worship me,。
"teaching as doctrines the commandments of men."。
Even Simon Peter failed to grasp exactly。
what was the heart of worship.。
We read in verse 15,。
"Peter said to him, 'Explain the parable to us.'。
"And he," that's Jesus, said,。
"Are you also still without understanding?"。
You see, tradition is something external,。
while God's truth is internal, it's in the heart.。
People can obey tradition to please men and gain status,。
but we obey the word of God to please God.。
Tradition deals with ritual,。
while God's truth deals with reality.。
Tradition brings empty words to the lips,。
but truth penetrates the heart and changes the life.。
Actually, tradition potentially robs a person。
of the power of the word of God.。
And this incident with the religious leaders。
and the disciples is particularly significant。
as it sets up what happens next.。
And Jesus, Jesus takes radical action.。
We read here,。
"And Jesus went away from there。
"and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon."。
You'll see from the map I put on the screen,。
he leaves the Galilee area and goes northwest。
to the coastal areas of Tyre and Sidon in modern day Lebanon.。
Tyre was about 35 miles walk from Capernaum.。
And Sidon was a 50 mile walk.。
Maybe this took two or three days.。
This is actually very significant.。
It is the only time during Jesus' public ministry。
that he steps into strictly Gentile territory.。
Not only did Jesus teach that no foods were unclean,。
but he practiced this teaching。
by going into Gentile territory, the non-Jews.。
And he was also seeking to refresh himself。
from the increasing conflicts,。
especially with the religious people,。
and to withdraw a bit from the large crowds。
that had started following him.。
And as he withdrew to a place of solitude,。
he actually meets a woman with a true heart of worship.。
He meets a woman with a true heart of worship.。
Now Mark 7 24 tells us。
that Jesus was trying to remain hidden,。
but somehow this Canaanite woman heard where he was。
and came to him with her needs.。
But she wasn't what you'd expect.。
She didn't tick all the boxes.。
She wasn't baptised, confirmed, leading a small group,。
pillar of the church, studying for a theology degree,。
none of the above.。
And one writer has been led to say this,。
"There is no incident in our Lord's earthly ministry。
that's more puzzling than this."。
And so it begs investigation.。
I mean, look at her entrance.。
And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out。
and was crying, "Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David.。
My daughter is severely oppressed by a demon."。
She begins with a plea for mercy.。
The cry, "Lord, have mercy."。
In Greek, that's Kyrie Eleison,。
has been described as the most prayed prayer。
in the whole Bible.。
(audience laughing)。
Notice also, she calls Jesus the son of David.。
Wow, a messianic term.。
Coming from the lips of a Gentile, a non-Jew.。
She was clearly convinced of the person。
that she was addressing.。
But let's press in.。
"Note the significance of this.。
Have mercy on me, O Lord, me."。
I mean, after all, it was her daughter。
who was demon possessed,。
but it is the mom who feels the weight,。
the fear, the despair, the hopelessness.。
Any parent who's had troublesome teenagers,。
I'm one of them, will identify with this.。
And of course, she was warmly welcomed。
by Jesus and disciples.。
Not, no way, Jose.。
Indeed, their response was underwhelming, to say the least.。
Let's read it.。
"But he," that's Jesus, "did not answer a word.。
And his disciples," I love these guys,。
"came and begged him, saying, 'Send her away.。
She is crying out after us.'"。
Now this really throws us off balance.。
When Paul told us last week about Jairus。
pleading for his little girl,。
Jesus immediately takes steps to come to her aid.。
Now this woman comes to Jesus。
to seek mercy for her daughter,。
and Jesus seemingly ignores her.。
And the disciples begin with a hostile attack.。
"Send her away.。
She's not one of us."。
A marginalised woman。
becoming even further marginalised.。
Church, there's a practical outworking for us.。
When we come to church,。
we like to talk to our friends, don't we?。
Or with the dudes who are cool and popular.。
But how do we react when it is a street sleeper,。
an asylum seeker, a domestic helper, or an LGBT member?。
Or someone from another generation?。
Or of a different colour?。
It begs a serious question.。
How does it feel when you are talking with someone。
and that person ignores you?。
And to take it up a notch, how does that feeling change。
when you factor in the importance。
of the person you are talking to?。
And when you talk to God about things,。
does it ever seem as if He's ignoring you?。
Does that feel wonderful?。
I don't think so.。
This woman is not just passing the time.。
She is not commenting on the weather or the Hang Seng Index.。
She has a demon-possessed daughter.。
I mean, she needs help.。
And the person who can help her is standing in front of her.。
As Jesus' fame had grown,。
people from all over the region were drawn to Him。
for help and rescue.。
She'd obviously heard these stories。
and fuelled by the anguish for her daughter,。
comes to Jesus and bears her soul to Him.。
I want you to picture the scene.。
It's a bit like a Hong Kong traffic accident.。
You know, when someone like scrapes someone else's car,。
it's a little scrape, and they're in the middle of the road。
and one's shouting at someone,。
"Why don't you learn to drive properly?"。
And the other one goes, "Lay out more, go out, oh!"。
You know, like this is happening.。
And here we've got it.。
The mom is by now shouting her head off.。
And the disciples were also having their five pennies worth.。
On the other hand,。
Jesus was silently standing in the eye of the storm.。
Rather like He was on the Lake of Galilee。
before He calmed the storm.。
The Canaanite woman must've felt。
like she was being put on hold.。
Nobody likes being put on hold.。
I really detest these so-called hotlines.。
They're not so hot, are they?。
Let's be honest.。
Our lines are very busy.。
Your call is important, so please hold on.。
And one of our customer services representative。
will be with you shortly.。
That's a lie.。
And then you're subjected either to canned music。
or a barrage of advertisements.。
But the dialogue then becomes even more difficult。
to understand.。
Verse 24, He, that's Jesus said,。
"I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel."。
Did Jesus really tell her。
that He wouldn't help her because of her ethnicity?。
You know, many of us would grown up。
with churches in the States, in South Africa,。
with signs outside, no blacks allowed, right?。
Do you remember that?。
And no doubt the disciples were cheering in the background.。
This is getting more puzzling by the moment.。
Look at her response.。
Verse 25, "But she came and knelt before Him saying,。
'Lord, help me.'"。
We cannot but admire the patience and persistence。
of this Gentile mother.。
"Lord, help me," was her next plea.。
And this time she avoided any messianic titles.。
She came as a sinner needing help。
and she offered no argument.。
And the phrase that I've been looking for。
ever since I talked about the heart of worship。
has finally arrived.。
"In she came and knelt before Him."。
Matthew, the gospel writer,。
uses an expression used of worship.。
So consider this,。
this woman appears to have been ignored。
and rejected and insulted by Jesus.。
And yet she still comes forward。
and offers her worship to Him.。
Surely now, surely now,。
Jesus will help this woman and her daughter.。
But it gets even more intriguing.。
Try and work this one out.。
"And he," Jesus said, "It is not right。
to take the children's bread。
and throw it to the dogs."。
What?。
What have you just said?。
Just when you think things couldn't get any worse,。
Jesus appears to call her a dog.。
Now, in his reply, Jesus did not call her a dog。
in the way the Pharisees would have addressed a Gentile.。
The Greek word here means a little pet dog。
and not the filthy disease carrying mongrels。
that ran the streets and ate the garbage.。
The children, of course, referred to the people of Israel.。
But Jesus was not playing games with the woman,。
nor was he trying to make the situation more difficult.。
He was drawing out of her a growing response of faith。
and she did not disappoint.。
She said, "Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs。
that fall under the master's table."。
She refuses to let go.。
She immediately seized on the illustration。
about the children's bread,。
which was exactly what he wanted her to do.。
We may paraphrase her reply.。
It is true that we Gentiles do not sit at the table。
as children and eat the bread,。
but even the pet dogs under the table。
can eat some of the crumbs.。
Sandra, I know this.。
Every time we eat, Lexi is under the table, right?。
And she's just ready for that little bit of crumb.。
What a tremendous testimony of faith.。
She was in fact, she was actually in effect saying,。
"I will gladly accept your crumbs under the table,。
but only if it's your table in your house.。
I've got no desire to deprive your children.。
Just let a crumb of grace fall to help my child.。
I accept your invitation and I trust you to meet our need."。
And it was this faith that Jesus acknowledged。
and immediately he healed her daughter.。
Let's read this in verse 28.。
"And Jesus answered her, 'Oh woman, great is your faith.。
Be it done for you as you desire.'。
And her daughter was healed instantly."。
That's worth noting that both of the persons。
in the gospel of Matthew who are described。
as having great faith were both Gentiles.。
This Canaanite woman and the Roman centurion。
that James told us about a few weeks ago.。
Now in both cases here,。
Jesus healed the one in need from a distance.。
You got to see the significance of this。
'cause spiritually speaking,。
the Gentiles were a far off until Calvary。
when Jesus Christ died for both Jews and Gentiles。
and made reconciliation possible.。
This woman's faith was great because she persisted。
in asking and trusting when everything seemed against her.。
Certainly her race was against her.。
She was a Gentile.。
Her sex was against her.。
For most Jewish rabbis paid little attention to women.。
It seemed as if the disciples were against her.。
And Christ's words led her to believe。
that even he was against her.。
All of these obstacles only made her persist in asking.。
I have a theory here.。
I mean, this is bizarre, right?。
That this bizarre exchange was actually。
for the benefit of the disciples.。
See, the disciples had been brought up。
in a particular religious system.。
It needed them to be taken out of the comfort zone。
of Palestine to find a new reference point。
for what the heart of worship looks like.。
It was more than being fascinated by his teaching。
and impressed by his miracles.。
The appropriate response was humble faith and worship.。
And the Canaanite woman had demonstrated this,。
this heart clearly.。
Because the next verse, verse 29,。
after the end of this story, it's very telling.。
Jesus went on from there and walked beside。
the Sea of Galilee.。
And he went up to the mountain and sat down there.。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something.。
"I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something.。
"I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something.。
"I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something.。
"I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something.。
"I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
And he said, "Look, I'm going to tell you something."。
Jesus had come for this woman and for her daughter.。
Why?。
Because he wanted to teach his disciples.。
He wanted them to encounter a heart of worship.。
He reached across geographical, ethnic, religious, and cultural boundaries。
to reach her and to teach them.。
And KFCI, he wants to both reach us and teach us.。
The Father reached us by sending his Son.。
Jesus reached us by entering into everything we face and struggle with life.。
And our response is to give him our worship and trust.。
To give him our lives.。
I mean, totally.。
As I ask the band in a moment to come back, we're going to sing a response song.。
Not quite yet.。
Going back to my first point about worship in church,。
this song was not written in the last couple of years, like most of our songs here at KFCI.。
But it was written in 1896, 127 years ago, even before I was born.。
Look at some of the words we're going to be singing.。
I'll put them on the screen.。
All to Jesus I surrender.。
All to him I freely give.。
I will ever love and trust him.。
In his presence daily live.。
All to Jesus I surrender.。
Humbly at his feet I bow.。
Worldly pleasures all forsaken.。
Take me Jesus.。
Take me now.。
I surrender all.。
I surrender all.。
All to thee my blessed saviour.。
I surrender all.。
As I ask the band to come out, can I invite you today to be like the Canaanite woman?。
I'm going to invite you to do something we've never asked you to do in this church before.。
If you're able to do this, I'm going to invite you, if you can, to kneel.。
To kneel before him and to say, "Lord have mercy."。
I appreciate it's difficult for some of us.。
I'm going to invite you to offer him your life.。
Completely.。
If you're in a position to do that, can you just kneel before him, kneel before Jesus now.。
Let's do this.。
If you're not comfortable in there, get out and make some, there's plenty of space in this church.。
And I'm going to pray over us.。
I don't think in the six years plus we've done this service we've ever kneeled for the final song.。
I want you to stay kneeling as we sing this final song.。
I surrender all.。
I surrender all.。
All to thee my precious savior.。
I surrender all.。
As we kneel here, Lord, we say, "Lord have mercy."。
Lord have mercy on us.。
I offer you my life in spirit and truth.。
All I am is yours.。
Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit.。
I surrender all.。
Let's sing this together.。
(gentle music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
