Good evening, everyone.。
It's so good to be here tonight, and thank you, Pastor John, who's watching online from。
the UK.。
We miss you.。
We can't wait to see you soon.。
But it's so good to be here tonight.。
I've been part of the KFCI family officially for about six months, but we're all part of。
the family of God, so we've been family a long, long time.。
Wouldn't you agree?。
I'm often asked how I ended up in Hong Kong, and behind me you see my beautiful family,。
my parents.。
My brother is right beside me.。
Beside him is my nephew, my brother-in-law, my sister, and my niece, Hope, on the end.。
She's the jewel of our family.。
But I'm often asked how I got here.。
How did I leave this beautiful group of people and end up here?。
Well, there's a long answer and a very, very short answer.。
We're going to go with option number two tonight, because number one could be like a whole sermon。
in itself.。
So I'll give you the short version, kind of my origin story, if you will.。
When I was a little girl, probably less than five years old at that time, there was just。
me and my sister.。
My dad was a young pastor starting out in the ministry.。
He had seen pastors lose their children.。
He had seen pastors pour out their entire lives winning other people to the gospel,。
and their own children rebel and walk away from God.。
And he could not bear the thought of losing his two little daughters.。
It was more than he could bear.。
So he began to pray, and prayed this prayer later when my brother came along.。
And his simple prayer was, "God, give me my children.。
God, I don't have to be a famous pastor.。
I don't have to pastor big, big churches.。
I just want my children to grow up and know you and accept you for their own."。
Then he got even a little more bold in his prayer.。
And he said, "Lord, it would be okay with me if my children live on the other side of。
the world far away from me, if they know you and they're serving you.。
I would rather have them on the other side of the world than live next door to me and。
rebel against you and go to hell."。
So fast forward 30 plus years.。
My sister grew up to be a worship leader.。
And oh, little caveat, we never knew dad prayed that prayer.。
He didn't pray that prayer in front of us.。
That was his personal private plea with the Lord.。
So we didn't know it was a setup.。
My sister grew up to be a worship leader.。
My brother grew up to be a pastor.。
And me, here I am.。
When I came to my dad in my mid-30s and said, "I believe God's leading me to move to Hong。
Kong and to serve him there," part of his heart went, "Ugh, because I'm a daddy's girl.。
I'm still a daddy's girl.。
You're never too old to be a daddy's girl."。
And when I came to him and said, "God's called me to move to the other side of the world,"。
the Lord brought back to his remembrance the prayer that he had prayed when I was very。
little.。
And God asked him, "Did you really mean it?。
Did you really mean it when you prayed that?"。
Dad said, "Yes, I did."。
Then God said, "You have to bless her and let her go."。
So dad was obedient and blessed me and let me go.。
So since 2007, I've had the great privilege of serving the Lord here and based out of。
Hong Kong, but doing ministry all over Southeast Asia.。
And one of the passions of my heart is reaching people with the gospel and then equipping。
them to go to places that I can't go, because I can't go everywhere.。
I'm one person.。
You can't go everywhere.。
You're one person.。
But we can reach people who can go places we cannot.。
So tonight we're going to look at this topic of partnership with God.。
And that seems like such a high and lofty thing, especially when we think of it in the。
context of missions.。
We started a series recently in 1 Corinthians, and our first two scriptures tonight come。
out of 1 Corinthians.。
1 Corinthians 1.9 in the CEV says it like this, "God can be trusted, and he chose you。
to be partners with his Son, our Lord Jesus Christ."。
1 Corinthians 3.9 says, "For we are God's fellow workers.。
You are God's field, God's building."。
We have been chosen to partner with God.。
But partnership or working with God didn't start in the New Testament.。
That's just not a New Testament thing.。
This was always God's plan.。
His desire was always from Genesis all the way to Revelation and continuing today.。
His plan and desire has always been to partner with us.。
In the book of Genesis, of course, from the very beginning, we have the account of creation.。
Day by day, God created the world.。
Out of nothing, he created everything.。
Land, ocean, water, river, streams, night, day, sun, moon, stars, animals that roam the。
earth, the fish in the sea, the birds in the air, God created it all.。
But the pinnacle of his creation was man.。
Man was made in God's very own image, and man is the only thing created that God blew。
his own breath into.。
God gave man a job.。
Genesis 2.15 says it like this, "The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden。
of Eden to work it and take care of it."。
Now I have to wonder here, God just created the world.。
Was he not powerful enough to sustain the garden by himself?。
Did he really need somebody pulling the weeds?。
Did he really need somebody making sure it was nice and tidy?。
Of course not.。
Of course not.。
God had created it.。
He was powerful enough to sustain it on his own, but he chose to partner with man.。
He chose to work with Adam.。
He gave Adam a second job that we see recorded in verse 19 of the same chapter.。
"The Lord God formed out of the ground all the wild animals and all the birds in the。
sky.。
He brought them to the man to see what he would name them.。
And whatever the man named each living creature, that was its name."。
Now I have a bit of a crazy imagination at times, so my mind kind of goes some places。
and I wonder things like, "How long did this take to name all the animals?"。
We're not talking about a zoo with like maybe a hundred.。
We're talking every single animal on the planet, one by one, God brought them to Adam.。
Adam goes, "Cat, dog, giraffe.。
No, wait.。
No, no, no, no.。
Horse.。
This one is horse.。
This one is giraffe.。
Like, how long did this take?。
Were there any that he said, "Falcon?。
No, no, no.。
Eagle.。
You're eagle.。
You're falcon."。
I have a crazy imagination.。
But the point is, Adam and God worked together on this.。
And I wonder again, did God really need Adam to do this?。
Had he run out of creative ideas?。
I mean, he's just created the world.。
He created all the animals.。
Did he really need Adam to do this job?。
Of course not.。
But he chose to partner with Adam.。
He chose to partner with man.。
Now this partnership, this pattern of partnership or co-working with God continues throughout。
Scripture.。
We see it from cover to cover.。
We see God giving Moses the task of speaking to Pharaoh.。
We see God, through the prophet, instructing the widow to gather empty jars of oil, empty。
oil jars so that he could fill them with oil.。
In the New Testament, we see Jesus giving instruction for empty jugs to be filled with。
water.。
We see Jesus using the little boy's lunch to feed the multitude.。
There are so many more examples contained in this book.。
Now don't get nervous.。
We're not going to go through them all tonight.。
Not going to do that.。
But the pattern is there.。
So what does partnership with God look like when it comes to missions?。
What does that look like?。
We partner through prayer.。
That's one of the primary ways we partner with missions.。
Jesus said in Matthew chapter 9, 37 through 38, "The harvest is plentiful, but the workers。
are few.。
Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into the harvest field."。
A clear call to prayer.。
It doesn't get much clearer than that.。
Now let me ask, if the harvest was plentiful in Jesus' day, if the workers were few in。
Jesus' day, how much more plentiful is the harvest today in 2022?。
The population of the world is exploding.。
It continues to increase.。
Current figures place the population of the world at about 7.8 billion people.。
7.8 billion people are on this planet.。
That's a number that's hard for us to comprehend, and the number keeps growing.。
It keeps growing.。
But here's the staggering part of the number.。
Two-thirds of the population of the world, approximately 5.2 billion, make no profession。
of faith in Jesus Christ.。
Two-thirds of the population of the world make no profession of faith in Christ.。
That's staggering, and that makes me sad, but it also motivates me.。
It drives me to say, "They have to know."。
If ever we intend to reach the harvest, we must pray for workers.。
We must pray for people to reach two-thirds of the population of the planet.。
We partner in missions through giving.。
We just heard the beautiful testimony of sons and daughters, and we see the very clear need。
for princess and those like her.。
It costs money to go back home.。
It costs money to run a drop-in center.。
It's practical, it's not exciting to talk about money, but it's necessary.。
It takes money to pay the lease.。
We have to pay a lease on our own home.。
Leases have to be paid for services like this.。
We partner by giving, giving of our finances.。
So I encourage you, I echo Pastor James, go see the booth right out here, buy some pretty。
candles.。
Christmas is coming.。
Do your Christmas shopping.。
Christmas shopping and supporting missions, win-win.。
You can be early.。
Go down the hall and see the other exhibits as well.。
Missions takes money, and we've been so, so blessed that we can give and we can partner。
in missions.。
But one of the biggest ways that we partner in missions is through going.。
See, giving is easy.。
Praying is easy.。
Going, that's the one where we all kind of, "Eh, I don't know."。
That's the one every missions weekend where you're anticipating, "When are they going。
to read the Great Commission?。
When are they going to talk to me about going overseas?。
Where's the sign-up sheet for the missions trip?"。
Going is hard.。
Going requires a lot.。
Pastor James read our scripture, the Great Commission, and I want to read it to us one。
more time.。
When Jesus came to them and said, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.。
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and。
of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you.。
And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age."。
There's one word, two-letter word, "go," that triggers so many different reactions in us.。
Many times we've applied the word "go" to missionaries in the traditional sense.。
Missionaries, those who leave their home country, move to a foreign land, learn a new language,。
immerse themselves in an unfamiliar culture, and preach the gospel to win the lost of Christ.。
For some, that thought is terrifying.。
Thoughts start to invade our minds, like, "I could never leave my home country.。
I could never give up the comforts of my home.。
I could never learn a new language.。
I could never learn a new culture."。
And these thoughts paralyze us.。
And we don't even like to pray about going because we're afraid God just might answer。
that prayer.。
Do we remember what Pastor Steve said last week?。
There are certain prayers we don't like to pray because we think God, we fear God just。
may answer that prayer.。
He gave us a simple prayer last week that he prays every day.。
He said, "Lord, bring me someone to serve today.。
Don't raise your hands."。
But did we pray that prayer this week?。
I'm not going to look around, not going to make eye contact.。
But did we pray that?。
I'll let you meditate on that with the Lord.。
But in the same manner, many of us don't want to pray about going out of fear that the Lord。
may answer and say, "Yes, I want you to go to a hard place.。
Yes, I want you to go to this country, fill in the blank."。
Because if we're honest, we probably all have a country in mind that we think, "Oh God,。
send me anywhere but there."。
And it's different for each of us.。
"Oh God, please don't make me go there."。
So we don't even pray because we don't want God to answer that prayer.。
Or how about this trigger from the word "go"?。
For some of us, we hear that word "go" and we get a sense of relief.。
Because for some of us, it is simply impossible to relocate internationally as a traditional。
missionary would.。
And there are legitimate reasons for this.。
There may be health issues that prevent you from moving.。
There may be issues with your age or other true legitimate reasons that you could never。
move to a foreign country.。
So for those people, sometimes there's a tendency to go, "I don't have to worry about it.。
I'm excused.。
The mandate of 'go' does not apply to me."。
Well, yes it does, but I'm going to explain that.。
You see, while our definitions of "go" and "missionary" have not been incorrect, I would。
suggest that our definitions have been too narrow.。
And I would suggest that it's time to expand our definitions.。
Let's just be practical for a moment.。
Every Christian in the city cannot leave and go to another country.。
Cannot.。
We cannot all leave, especially at the same time.。
Imagine if every Christian in the city of Hong Kong said, "Oh, God said go.。
I'm leaving.。
I'm going to another country, going overseas."。
Fend for yourself.。
Chaos would ensue.。
Darkness would take over.。
Who would witness to the people still here if we all left?。
Everyone cannot go.。
Everyone is not supposed to go in their traditional sense.。
Some will be called to go to foreign lands, and I don't want to diminish that calling。
at all.。
It is true.。
Most of us in this room will never live as a traditional missionary in another country,。
but we are called to go.。
So we must ask the question, "If I'm not called to go overseas, then what does 'go'。
mean to me?。
How am I to partner with God in the Great Commission?"。
We are privileged to live in Hong Kong, and for most of us, our 'go' simply means walk。
outside of our front door and see the nations that are right in front of us.。
Even after the crazy tumultuous last three years, Hong Kong is still a global city.。
Hong Kong is a place where people come and they go.。
It's a transient city.。
People come for work, they come for study, they come as refugees, they come for many。
different reasons, and for the most part, they come for a purpose, they achieve that。
purpose, and then they either return to their homeland or move on to another country.。
I spoke with a friend of mine this week who works in the admissions department at HKU,。
and he told me that there are students at HKU from over 90 countries.。
Over 90 countries are represented in just one university in our city.。
Let that sink in for just a moment.。
These students will be here for one to four years, depending on their program of study,。
then they're either going back home or going on to another country for work.。
You and I are not going to 90 countries.。
It's not going to happen.。
It's not possible.。
We don't have time.。
We don't have the finances.。
We don't have the language skills to go to 90.。
Who speaks 90 languages?。
I've heard of polyglots who speak five and six and seven language, and those people amaze。
me.。
I'm struggling with two.。
I struggle with two, but we don't have the language skills to go to 90 countries.。
Do you know how long it would take us just to learn the languages and to learn the cultures?。
So we're not going, but they are.。
We can impact 90 nations just by reaching the visiting students at one university in。
our city.。
And that's just one segment of our city.。
There are many, many other countries represented in business, not to mention the over 300,000。
domestic workers employed in Hong Kong.。
For many of us, Go means sharing the gospel with those closest to us, our family, our。
coworkers, our employees, or our employers.。
I have a very good friend who's been living here for over 25 years, and over her time。
here in Hong Kong, she's employed several domestic helpers at different times.。
And each time, she has intentionally hired someone who is not a Christian.。
With the express prayer in her heart of, "Oh God, please allow me to witness to my helper.。
Please allow me to share the gospel with my helper."。
Each of her helpers eventually came to know Jesus.。
Each one of them, they went back to their home in the Philippines and won their families。
to Jesus.。
And one of her helpers became a pastor in her home province in the Philippines.。
Now see, my friend is never going to live in the Philippines.。
That's not where God has called her to go.。
God's called her here.。
But she has answered the yes of the Go of the Great Commission by winning the person。
right in front of her.。
She's been a very effective missionary to the Philippines.。
Let me ask us, have we considered that the people we employ, whether domestic workers,。
people in our office, people in our school, have we considered that they could be part。
of the answer of Go for us?。
That's part of our Go, the people right in front of us.。
See we sometimes disqualify ourselves from going with statements like, "I don't know。
enough to tell anybody about the gospel."。
"I'm not old enough."。
Or the flip side, "I'm too old.。
I can't say anything."。
These are myths that keep us from going.。
Let me help, and the biggest myth is, "I don't know enough."。
Let me help us with that one.。
We will never know enough.。
We will never know enough doctrine.。
We will never know enough theology.。
We will never know the Bible cover to cover.。
We don't have to.。
We just have to know what Jesus has done for us.。
That's all we have to know to share the gospel.。
Psalm 107, "Let the redeemed of the Lord tell their story."。
You see a connection is far more powerful when someone hears my story.。
When they hear my story, they hear something they can relate to.。
They're going to click onto that far quicker than they would about doctrinal statements。
or theological statements.。
Sometimes we hesitate to go because we fear being unsuccessful.。
We don't want to fail.。
We live in such a results-driven world that the fear of failure can stop us in our tracks.。
But God has a different definition of success and failure.。
I love the way Mother Teresa said it, "God has not called me to be successful.。
He's called me to be faithful."。
God has not called me to be successful.。
He's called me to be faithful.。
We will not find the instruction anywhere in the Bible, "Go be successful."。
It's not in there.。
We've just been told to go.。
And as we read some of the scriptures last week, again, as we've been studying in 1 Corinthians,。
we may be the one who plants.。
We may be the one who waters.。
The results, that's up to God.。
My job, your job, our job is to go, to plant or to water.。
And as the band gets ready to come on up, I want to close with these words, with these。
last few thoughts.。
God did not create a race of mindless, pre-programmed robots.。
He created us and has chose us to partner with him to reach the world with a message。
of salvation.。
In the Great Commission, he gave us a task and told us to go.。
He's now brought the nations of the world to Hong Kong.。
1 Timothy 2.4 says, "God wants all people to be saved, to come to a knowledge of the。
truth."。
You see, the nations are here.。
So if you reach Hong Kong with the gospel, you reach the world.。
The world is right outside our front door.。
The world is right beside us on the MTR.。
The world is in our office, in our classroom.。
Oswald Chambers said this, "We all want to do the will of God, and we know that there's。
nothing nearer to his heart than the evangelization of the world."。
And as the band prepares to lead us in a response, may I invite us to ask the Lord, "What does。
go mean to me?"。
What does go mean to me?。
Let's make this our prayer.。
Lord, please give me a willing heart to go to my family, to my coworkers, to my employees,。
to my employer, to organizations like Sons and Daughters, to lonely refugees and asylum。
seekers, to domestic workers, to university students far from home, to the world that。
you have brought to Hong Kong, and even to a foreign land.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
