So, one thing I really love about Hong Kong is of course our many, many skyscrapers which。
we have here.。
But what I really love is being high up in one, where you can see the view of the traffic。
down below.。
You see these cars take turns and they intersect and just how all the highways and the roads。
work.。
I really love watching that.。
Of course, this is different to when you're in the car trying to get through the Central。
Harbour Tunnel and you're stuck behind a big bus.。
I really couldn't care less about the marvel of highway infrastructure.。
I don't really care about that.。
All I care about is is this bus going to get out of my way so that I won't be late.。
So from up top, wow, amazing, planned out, beautiful.。
But from in the car, however, this is horrible, get out of my way.。
Now the contrast of these images is to me can really help us make sense of what we're。
seeing in Ecclesiastes.。
As readers of the Bible, we often get that top view, that bigger picture.。
Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians, for example, to fix our eyes on what is unseen.。
We are told about eternal life, God's sovereignty over all things past, present and future in。
heaven and on earth.。
But in Ecclesiastes, we are in a way just stuck with this one view, stuck with that。
view of a big bus in front of us and stuck with a view of all we can see is in this life.。
The teacher, or koheleth, leans into this limited viewpoint on purpose.。
As we continue into chapter 9, there are a few things I want to make sure we take with。
us as we delve in.。
It's a bit of a long premise, but really helpful in understanding what's going on.。
So firstly, koheleth, or as is often seen as the teacher or the preacher, is a character。
introduced by the author.。
Arguably quite self-representative, but a character nonetheless.。
And so koheleth is used by the writer, and as Michelle pointed out earlier in the series,。
either Solomon himself or a Solomon-like character.。
The use of this character suggests that this is more than just a diary of personal grievances,。
but this is really used intentionally and as a teaching and artistic device.。
But we want to be aware of this also in heeding the advice and drawing any conclusions.。
The second thing, which is what I'll be spending most time on, and what I believe to be the。
most important aspect to understanding, is that through much of Ecclesiastes, it carries。
this premise of under the sun.。
Our search for life and meaning is limited to being under the sun.。
He isn't really looking toward heaven and to God, but it's not denying it.。
Heavens is mentioned in chapters 3 and 5, and God himself is never really taken out。
of the view.。
So it's not some secular musing, but he's really looking for his meaning in this life.。
And just as he isn't pointing to heaven, he also isn't really pointing to hell.。
So it's not so much a fire and brimstone message either.。
So throughout Ecclesiastes, keeping his search for meaning and fulfilment limited to being。
under the sun.。
By my count, under the sun was mentioned 27 times, and then another 3 times for under。
heaven.。
On earth can also take this meaning in some context.。
So it's a very strong running premise throughout the book.。
Now the third thing is this book contains a lot of poetry.。
And as I mentioned before, there's a character.。
So it's artistic.。
Now don't get me wrong, this does not mean we just get to pick and choose whatever we。
want to take and leave the other things behind.。
It's not a buffet.。
But through imagery, the rhythm of the poetry and other literal techniques, it's better。
able to speak to the core of us, to really get to our emotion, to tell us that it gets。
us, it understands us.。
An example might be a documentary might tell us what happened in a certain situation, but。
often feels quite distant and unrelated to us.。
Whereas a TV drama where you can really delve into the characters, help us to really connect。
with the emotion and even see ourselves in that situation.。
And so fourthly, especially for us living in the post New Testament times, there is。
a second way which we must read this.。
And that is with that top view, with that bigger picture.。
The contrast between life and death viewed through the limitations of searching for meaning。
on this earth alone.。
And comparing that to the offering of eternal life in Jesus and living life without eternal。
view.。
Okay, so to recap quickly, Kohelet is a character.。
His search for lasting meaning, limited to being under the sun, is an artistic book and。
we have a bigger picture available to us.。
So apart from this book being in the Bible, why would we entertain this?。
It kind of seems a little bit risky, confusing, maybe even dangerous.。
Why bother with this book?。
It would have been much easier if Ecclesiastes just told us a few ways to how to live, like。
proverbs, something nice and simple to follow.。
Why would we allow ourselves to not just entertain this viewpoint, but really delving into it。
and getting lost in the emotion of it as well?。
So let's pause and think about that.。
We don't really need Ecclesiastes to do this.。
This viewpoint already is our natural disposition.。
Ecclesiastes just meets us where we are at.。
We may try to think about living for God, think about heaven and Jesus, but then we're。
stuck with, "Why am I in this job while that godless heathen seems to have it all。
and he's got it all worked out?"。
We are in this world, on this earth, under this sun.。
It's pretty hard to avoid viewing things through that lens.。
So while we often read about how we should live or how Paul was just able to get up and。
do so much, it can be comforting to actually see this in the Bible of all places.。
Real struggles of life, real existential crisis.。
God understands our desire to find meaning, to have an idea of what's going on.。
The Bible isn't just some book to look down on us and tell us what to do as many people。
believe.。
It actually understands us and what we are going through.。
And so from delving into this viewpoint, what we really want to do is come away from that。
and enrich our top view, enrich our bigger picture, our view of heaven.。
Just as one who doesn't know that they are a sinner doesn't believe they need saving,。
until we understand the futility of placing all our worth and meaning in this life alone,。
we don't understand the full glory of God and eternal life in Him.。
Reading Ecclesiastes properly could save us decades of poor decisions and living.。
So remember these four things as we dive in.。
So, alright, let's get into chapter 9.。
I'm sure Kohelet now is ready to get to the uplifting part of the book, so let's take。
a little bit of a look at the breakdown of what happens in this chapter.。
So 1 to 6, death comes to all.。
Cool, cool, cool.。
Alright, so we see the writer laying out that no matter what, death comes to all.。
So in verses 7 to 10, the original YOLO, which of course means you only live once, and in。
11 to 18, the teacher, or Kohelet, finishes by speaking about the importance of wisdom.。
So let's talk about meeting our final enemy.。
Now, we've already had 8 chapters of hearing the observations of Kohelet, and we've seen。
the word hevel, or hevel, come up a lot.。
Translated often, it's often translated to meaningless, but really has the meaning of。
vapour, something we can see but cannot grasp, which captures a little bit more of the idea。
of failing to provide any lasting meaning, rather than failing to provide any meaning。
whatsoever.。
So as a result, we have seen quite an exhaustive exercise of trying to find lasting meaning。
under the sun, trying to find something that won't just be hevel.。
Indulgence, hevel.。
Wisdom, hevel.。
Work, hevel.。
Money, hevel.。
Honour, hevel.。
Everything's hevel.。
So then after everything in this life is found to be nothing but hevel, what waits for us。
next?。
And he goes on to point out that at the end of all that, no matter how we lived, death。
comes to us all.。
So let's take a look at verse 1.。
But all this I lay to heart, examining it all, how the righteous and the wise and their。
deeds are in the hand of God.。
Whether it is love or hate, man does not know, both are before him.。
So it is laid to heart, he has examined it all.。
These are things deeply pondered, not just thoughts off a whim or a frustrated moan,。
but really considered and wrestled with.。
So we then see that the deeds of the righteous and the wise are in the hand of God.。
They are in his control and God's favour or disapproval is also under his control and。
command.。
Now from 2 to 6, Kehelet really gets into it a lot more.。
So let's take another look at those verses.。
It is the same for all, since the same event happens to the righteous and the wicked, to。
the good and the evil, to the clean and the unclean, to him who sacrifices and to him。
who does not sacrifice, as the good one is, so is the sinner.。
And he who swears is as he who shuns an oath.。
This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that the same event happens to all.。
Also the hearts of the children of man are full of evil and madness is in their hearts。
while they live and after that they go to the dead.。
But he who is joined with all the living has hope, for a living dog is better than a dead。
lion.。
For the living know that they will die but the dead know nothing and they have no more。
reward, for the memory of them is forgotten.。
Their love and their hate and their envy have already perished and forever they have no。
more share in all that is done under the sun.。
So the teacher, Kehelet, really doesn't hold back here.。
He just spent eight chapters, however many years and however much emotional energy, trying。
to find lasting meaning in life and seems to give up now to look for that in death.。
All these other things I try are just hebel.。
Maybe the answer lies here.。
Maybe the answer lies actually in death.。
But then we see it's the same for all, the righteous and the wicked.。
So even death doesn't seem to bring any distinction or any meaning to this life under the sun.。
It comes to all.。
Now we see it comes to all and sometimes we just want to gloss over that, maybe delude。
ourselves or we can think about that later.。
But he doesn't allow you to gloss over this.。
He uses this poetic rhythm and also like the contrasts and opposites to make this real,。
vivid.。
Good and evil, righteous and wicked, clean and unclean.。
He may say meat eater and vegan or rich and poor or landlord and tenant.。
Those who think cricket is the best sport, those who are wrong.。
This net catches everyone.。
There's no loophole, no way around it.。
Now in verse three when he talks about this being an evil, he's really stating that this。
is sad, a sadness.。
So in their commentary on Ecclesiastes, Ogden and Zogbo, which are real names, summarise。
it as this.。
This is a terrible thing that happens in this world.。
Every living being shares the same fate.。
Death, what's more?。
People worry all their lives about this sad and distressing situation and then they too。
die.。
Now I think this really captures the heart of the issue.。
We can worry about, plan around or put off the idea of death.。
We stake so much of our lives on this but in the end we will all die too.。
And it still has the ability to surprise us.。
Now in verses four to six, it really is evident that the teacher is still looking under the。
sun for the meaning of not just life but also death.。
A living dog is better than a dead lion.。
Dogs were viewed quite differently back then.。
It wasn't your friendly household dog.。
They were somewhat despised and seen as weak.。
So it's better to be weak and alive than strong but dead.。
The living know they are alive but the dead know nothing.。
At least in living, you have hope.。
And there's no real sign here in these verses of looking to heaven.。
They shall have no more share in all that is done under the sun.。
So it took eight chapters to really start looking to death for lasting meaning and only。
six verses to make clear that it's not there either.。
So he searched his whole span of life, all heaven, nothing.。
So maybe the answer is here.。
Maybe the answer is death.。
Righteous die along with the wicked.。
So we're back to this better being alive.。
And now you have an even greater sense of sort of clinging to this period here of life.。
And there's perhaps some resolve and acceptance in that too.。
So what conclusions can we draw about death if the only meaning can be derived from what。
we see under the sun?。
Well it's inescapable, a certainty.。
And just as we've seen it happen to many others, it will come to us.。
So it's better to be alive.。
But ultimately, it kind of renders what we do on earth seemingly a bit pointless in terms。
of the viewpoint from having lasting meaning.。
I mean, doesn't that feel a bit hopeless?。
Actually it should.。
It should feel hopeless.。
The picture that Kohelet here is painting is for that search of meaning under the sun.。
And that is hopeless.。
We've seen in previous chapters that all the things we try to attain in life, whether it's。
money, sex, power, status, it's all heavel.。
It's all vapour.。
And now we see that not only these things, but life itself is also vapour.。
We may be lucky enough to live for 120 years, not with my diet, but this is a blip in history。
and how many generations before we are forgotten.。
Okay, let's take a breather.。
It feels a little bit hopeless.。
So let's just take, before we get too lost in that despair, remember that we do have。
that bigger view.。
We do have that bigger picture.。
And we've just been focusing on this limited mindset where all the place we're looking。
for is just under this sun on this earth.。
And we can remember though that we have that bigger picture of what God has done for us。
through his son Jesus.。
But we will get to more of that later.。
So now, whether we like it or not, let's keep our tunnel vision.。
So let's have a look then, how do we live?。
How are we supposed to enjoy this life with this hanging over our head?。
Well, let's take a look at the original YOLO.。
YOLO, of course, meaning you only live once, usually used before doing something stupid。
or dangerous.。
I, however, as a buzzkill, find it's much more useful for doing something safe, like。
check twice before crossing the road, guys.。
YOLO.。
Be smart.。
So now as we look at Kohelet's YOLO, we must remember that this comes just after talking。
about death and how death relates to life under the sun, not necessarily as a gateway。
to eternal life or to hell.。
So from that, we can take two conclusions.。
These things, though temporary, are good things, good gifts that God has given us to enjoy。
life.。
And the second, while good, these things are not to outweigh how we live in view of。
eternity.。
Okay, so what does Kohelet say?。
Always check twice for donkeys before crossing the road.。
No, no, no, really.。
Verse seven says, "Go, eat your bread with joy and drink your wine with a merry heart,。
for God has already approved what you do."。
And I think I've just found my new favourite Bible verse.。
So now it's a reasonable view that there's a sense of fatality in these verses just coming。
from talking about death, a sense of whatever, may as well, doesn't really matter anyway.。
But actually this doesn't weaken the point.。
If anything, it strengthens it.。
These are good gifts that help us to enjoy life, whether that's to help us enhance life。
or help us just to get through.。
These are good gifts.。
But these are not where we should try and gain our meaning, as the teacher never puts。
this forward as something to fulfill us and never encourages us to do these sins in excess.。
So the line, "for God has already approved what you do," can be misinterpreted.。
So it doesn't mean God just approves anything you may do, but more that He refers to the。
approval of such things as these.。
He has given them to us and expects us to enjoy life and enjoy these good gifts.。
So verse 8, "Always be clothed in white and always anoint your head with oil."。
Now I must say, very disappointed.。
I do not see a single oily head as I look out.。
But really what this refers to is what people would do for special occasions.。
So it's not literal, but it's really saying, "Live each day like it's a joyous occasion."。
Verse 9, "Enjoy life with your wife whom you love, all the days of your vain life that。
He has given you under the sun, because that is your portion in life and in your toil at。
which you toil under the sun."。
So I've been married now almost six months, so I think it's very fair to say that I know。
all things on the subject.。
Not sure why you're laughing at that.。
But this, our companionship, is another great gift from God.。
And often we can read our portion or our lot as a negative.。
It's like, "This is my portion.。
I'll just make do, I guess."。
But actually what this is really getting at is that our portion or our lot, however big。
or small, is a gift from God and it's for us to enjoy.。
And then verse 10, "Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might, for there is。
no thought or wisdom in Sheol to which you are going."。
Now work is also a blessing to us as it is to others.。
In Genesis 2.15, Adam was acquired to work the land in the Garden of Eden.。
Now this was before the fall, so it was part of the original design.。
Colossians 3 also urges us to work willingly at whatever we do as though working for the。
Lord rather than for people.。
Now the way Kohelet ends this section is quite interesting.。
Just when we had thought he had gotten away from talking about death to going back to。
life again, he has to bring it back.。
But a reminder again that his viewpoint here is not actually looking to eternity.。
Blessings in life are indeed gifts and are indeed good.。
A blessing from God, so enjoy them.。
And I want to challenge you here to make a point to be thankful to God in all good things。
He has given us.。
Not just when we get the big job, but each day after that.。
Let us be thankful for the amazing experience of eating food, being with loved ones.。
Let us be truly thankful as we say grace and we thank Him for our food.。
Let us be thankful for the miracle of Gali Alamphan.。
As we posture ourselves with thankfulness to God, we can eat and drink with joy, enjoy。
our lives with loved ones and work with our might.。
But remember, sadly they don't hold in and of themselves the power to hold meaning or。
value beyond that.。
So there's no Michelin star restaurant that will leave us fulfilled.。
There's no holiday destination where all our senses will be fulfilled.。
And while my wife Mel may passionately disagree, there is no perfect spouse who can bring us。
lasting fulfillment.。
So the lesson here is that it's good to enjoy these things, but don't look for your life's。
value and meaning in them.。
So let's take a look at the final section, the value of wisdom.。
He then goes to tell us about a poor wise man who saves his city through wisdom.。
Now this is a parable rather than a recount of something that happened.。
So let's jump and take a look at 13 to 18.。
I have also seen this example of wisdom under the sun, and it seemed great to me.。
There was a little city with few men in it, and a great king came against it and besieged。
it, building great siege works against it.。
But there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city.。
Yet no one remembered that poor man.。
But I say that wisdom is better than might, though the poor man's wisdom is despised and。
his words are not heard.。
The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the shouting of a ruler among fools.。
Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroys much good.。
Now the first and obvious lesson here is that wisdom is greater than might or strength,。
and we can extend that to other characteristics also.。
But remember this context we are reading this in.。
The wise man didn't really save anyone from death.。
He just maybe kicked that can down the road a little bit, or helped them enjoy life a。
bit more, not being under foreign rule.。
So why would it matter really?。
But it does.。
This is shown as a good thing, aside from the point about wisdom.。
It reinforces that even just this life and how we can enjoy it is a good gift from God,。
one that should be cherished.。
And despite sentiments we may feel Kohelet is giving throughout Ecclesiastes, he's making。
it clear here that life is indeed worth preserving.。
Now there are a couple of other things here that really can challenge our own hearts,。
and definitely did with mine.。
He also chooses the character of a poor wise man.。
Not wise because he is poor, but wise and poor.。
For us we may think, can those things really go together?。
I mean if you're so wise, wouldn't you have money?。
And this is a global sentiment, but perhaps exacerbated in Hong Kong.。
But we struggle to see how you could be poor and wise, maybe lower middle class, but I。
mean will we be able to accept the wisdom of someone who hasn't made it in this world?。
Will we be able to accept the idea of hearing wisdom from someone living on the streets?。
What do we really think is wisdom, and how much do we really value it?。
To further this point, even though I'm ashamed to say I probably wouldn't have listened to。
this man and would have soon forgotten him, I still find it enraging reading this, that。
he did not get recognised.。
And to me I imagine myself in that situation, I think, do you not know what I did for you?。
Do you not know who I am?。
Show me some respect.。
We read this and think, well what's the point of having wisdom if we don't even get any。
recognition for it?。
But actually why would that have been the goal?。
Trying to find meaning in some recognition of some good works.。
Matthew 6 verse 1 actually warns us against practising righteousness in front of others。
in order to be seen by them.。
Through his wisdom this poor man saved lives.。
He saved the city.。
This is a value of his wisdom.。
But we still look at him and think, poor, unrecognised, is wisdom all that great?。
So this is what I want us to consider.。
Do we really value wisdom?。
And what does wisdom actually mean to us if it's not something we can monetise and give。
a status?。
Do we value true godly wisdom?。
Okay, so what's the point to all this?。
What's the point to this chapter?。
When we read it at face value, this is what we come away with.。
Whether we are good or bad, we are still made alike in that we will face death.。
So enjoy what we have in life, for these are good, but they won't ultimately fulfil us.。
And while it's good to be wise, it doesn't guarantee anything and people won't remember。
you for it.。
All right, well thank you for joining us here this Saturday.。
I'm going to wrap it up there.。
Okay, so remember, this is the view.。
The one where all we can see is this bus in front of us.。
We can't see around it.。
All we can see is this life on earth.。
And so it seems quite bleak.。
There is respite, there is enjoyment.。
And do not mistake this.。
The fact that we get to live this life at all is a gift to us from God, not just for。
us Christians, but all people.。
But it leaves us with an emptying feeling.。
But we know that this isn't the whole picture.。
The writer himself knew this wasn't the whole picture.。
The part was voicing the thoughts of Kohelet, a character written by the author.。
Now remember, as we've said many times, that limitation of Ecclesiastes is looking for。
life with meaning under the sun, to which death comes and snatches away.。
And this bleak view makes the reality of what God has done for us so much better when we。
understand it.。
So what is that top view?。
What is that bigger picture?。
What can save us from the futility of life under the sun?。
What is going to save us from this all just being a bunch of heavel and then dying?。
Now us reading this in the post-New Testament times have it a bit easier than the original。
readers of Ecclesiastes.。
Also being in a Christian church might make this easier to know where we're going.。
But we turn to Jesus.。
We turn to the one who defeated death.。
The one who came from heaven to earth to take our place on the cross and forgive our sins。
so that we may not perish but have eternal life.。
Because of him we need not fear death, for then we will be home with God.。
Many of us have heard Paul say in Philippians 1.21, "For me to live is Christ and to die。
is gain."。
But a couple of verses later in elaborating, he actually says, "I am torn between the two.。
I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far."。
Where we are now, while a gift from God, is a broken world.。
But what awaits us is perfect.。
I don't think any of us are looking forward to the act of dying, but Paul is fixed on。
what is beyond this life.。
And not only does this give him hope beyond this life, it actually makes his feelings。
about his life here better.。
Contrast this with the summary from before where we can worry about death, diminishing。
our experience on earth, and we die anyway.。
Compare that with fixing our eyes on heaven and having a deeper enjoyment of life in him.。
Ah, but this life is hard.。
I try looking to heaven, but I'm still sad or alone or angry or jealous, frustrated.。
You don't get it.。
But God understands the struggle.。
This book of Ecclesiastes is exactly that and exactly what he's telling us.。
And it's found of all places where?。
In the Bible.。
So if anyone understands the frustration of a broken world, it's God.。
Where Jesus gets at, Hebrews 4.15 tells us that we do not have a high priest who is unable。
to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we。
are yet without sin.。
We don't have a God who is distant, who doesn't understand us, what life is really like on。
earth or what we are going through.。
He has first experience living here on earth.。
Now 4.16 tells us then to draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy。
and find grace to help in time of need.。
So this is what we must do.。
When we have these struggles in life, when we find the disappointment of not getting。
what we wanted or the disappointment of getting what we wanted, when we struggle to find that。
lasting meaning in this life, draw near to Jesus.。
He is the only one worthy of placing our hope in and He understands us.。
He himself was tempted and tried and shown the world and offered the world as far as。
the eye could see.。
But He saw the futility in this and instead chose to live for the cause of eternity, to。
bring salvation to you and me.。
And so died and was raised to life again.。
That we don't need to place our hope in the vapor of this world under the sun.。
We don't need to live chasing the things of this world, but that we may have life beyond。
this world and life that is perfect and everlasting.。
And not only that, but with His peace, we can also be more able to be content and enjoy。
this life on earth in all circumstances.。
So we can fix our eyes on eternal life in Him that is free from the brokenness and fleetingness。
of this world.。
Let us send and I implore you to draw near to Him and follow the way which He has shown。
us.。
Let's pray.。
Lord, we thank you that you are a God who understands us, who cares about us, who knows。
us deeply and understands our struggles.。
We thank you that you are a God who has provided a way for us to be in relationship with you。
and for us to have eternal life in you.。
We thank you that you came to earth to rescue us and that you pursued us in relationship,。
Lord, that we can be adopted as sons and daughters of you.。
And we thank you, Lord, that you show us that you get us, Lord.。
You show us that you understand our struggles.。
Help us, Lord, to draw near to you, to give our problems to you and to follow you, to。
cry out to you, to lay all we are at your feet.。
We thank you for who you are.。
In your name, amen.。
Thank you.。
