Today we reach week 4 of our Emotionally Healthy series.。
This is not just a new series.。
We are implementing a new culture.。
You see, our spiritual health, our relationship with Jesus is tied to our emotional health.。
You cannot separate these two things.。
Jesus didn't and neither can we.。
Three weeks ago James got us started.。
He set the scene as it were.。
Two weeks ago I asked the question "Why?" as I talked about going beneath the surface。
and asking why we do the things that we do.。
Last week Michelle talked about breaking the power of the past.。
I want to honor her for her openness.。
Tonight I'm talking about the Emotionally Healthy trait of living in brokenness and。
vulnerability.。
We all know that if I want to have meaningful relationships I need to be broken.。
I need to be vulnerable.。
But we don't do it.。
And the main reason is we don't actually know.。
If we turn to Genesis 37 which Bonnie read to us, we come across a man called Jacob.。
Now you know what Jacob's other name was don't you?。
Yes, it was Israel.。
And you know how many sons he had?。
Yes, twelve.。
Who became the twelve tribes of Israel.。
And we come across this character Joseph.。
And Joseph was his daddy's favorite.。
I'm always amazed when people who know I've got two sons ask me "Which one is your favorite。
son?"。
Or when they find out I've got five grandchildren, say "Which one is your favorite grandchild?"。
Make no mistake, favoritism is a sin.。
And here it is generational.。
We saw it with Abraham and it was handed down through Isaac.。
Generational sin.。
And Jacob made it very clear who his favorite was.。
He brought him the coat of many colors.。
It made the other eleven mad.。
Right really mad.。
So mad they wanted to kill Joseph.。
They were about to kill him when one especially creative brother, he got an idea.。
This brother's name is Judah.。
Let's read this.。
"Then Judah said to his brothers, 'What profit is it if we kill our brother and conceal his。
blood?。
Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our。
brother, our own flesh.'。
And his brothers listened to him."。
Now this is sibling rivalry in its extreme form.。
Crazy.。
About to kill him.。
Judah's idea says, "Hey bros, we can make a little bit of money from this situation."。
Now notice he couches it in a nicety quote.。
He's our own brother, our own flesh and blood.。
But Joseph is sold and you know the story.。
And as such it becomes a sort of parallel to Judah's story that we're going to see tonight.。
We're going to look at Judah's story in Genesis 38.。
Now Genesis 38 surely fits into the category of spiritual oddities.。
I've rarely, if at all, heard it preached in church.。
Now notice how it is planted right in the middle of Joseph's story.。
Verse 1.。
"It happened at that time that Judah went down from his brothers and turned aside to。
a certain Adolamite whose name was Hira.。
In the midst of his father's grief, in the midst of family turmoil, Judah goes AWOL."。
You might say we do the same.。
Get away from my deadbeat dad, etc.。
But you'd be missing something.。
See where Jacob and his sons lived was a place called Canaan.。
Canaan was of course the promised land.。
Abraham was called into it.。
So Judah is not only leaving his grieving father and his distraught family, he is leaving。
the promised land.。
The place where one day Messiah would come through.。
Let's read on.。
"There Judah saw the daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shuwa.。
He took her and went into her, and she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Ur."。
So Judah goes from the promised land, he leaves his family, and marries a Canaanite woman.。
Judah probably in defiance of his father's wishes is said to marry a Canaanite girl instead。
of someone closer to his own kith and kin.。
Remember God had said don't marry outside the family of Israel or they will turn you。
away to their own gods.。
They had three sons, the oldest of whom eventually marries a girl named Tamar.。
This man dies soon after without having a son, an heir, born to him.。
So as was the custom of the day to ensure the succession of the family line, Judah makes。
his second son marry Tamar.。
But before long he dies too, having refused to even try to have a baby with Tamar.。
We move on to verse 11.。
"Then Judah said to Tamar his daughter-in-law, 'Remain a widow in your father's house, till。
Shelah my son grows up, for he feared that he would die like his brothers.'。
So Tamar went and remained in her father's house."。
By now Judah is starting to think that Tamar is nothing short of bad luck.。
So even though he promises to give Tamar in marriage to his last and his youngest son,。
secretly Judah intends to do no such thing.。
So what if Tamar is remained a bereft and childless widow the rest of her days?。
This girl is a husband killer.。
She is jinxed.。
So he wasn't about to let her wipe out also his final child.。
Now this is so offensive.。
He is disowning her.。
The law said it was the father-in-law's responsibility to take his widow daughter-in-law into his。
family and care for her like a daughter.。
And things are about to get worse, much worse.。
Let's read on.。
Verse 12.。
"In the course of time, the wife of Judah, Shewa's daughter, died.。
When Judah was comforted, he went up to Timnah, to his sheep shearers, he and his friend Hira。
the Adalamite."。
So what we have here, his wife dies.。
He is grieving his wife.。
He goes to a sheep shearing party.。
I guess the modern day equivalent of this would be a rave, a party, an orgy.。
Judah numbs his pain with drunkenness.。
Let's read on.。
"When Tamar was told, 'Your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep,'。
she took off her widow's garment and covered herself with a veil, wrapping herself up,。
and sat at the entrance to Enaim, which is on the road to Timnah.。
For she saw that Shewa had grown up and she had not been given to him in marriage.。
When Judah saw her, he thought she was a prostitute, for she had covered her face.。
He turned to her at the roadside and said, 'Come, let me come into you.'。
For he did not know she was his daughter-in-law.。
She said to him, 'What will you give me that you might come into me?'"。
Tamar's plan was to become pregnant by this ruse so that she might bear a child in Judah's。
line, since Judah had not kept his promise to give her to his son Shelah, who was by。
now grown up.。
Let's read on.。
Verse 18.。
"He said, 'What pledge shall I give you?'。
She replied, 'Your signet and your cord and your staff that is in your hand.'。
So he gave them to her and went into her, and she conceived by him.。
Then she arose and went away.。
Taking off her veil, she put on the garments of her widowhood."。
Judah gave her the things that make him him.。
I guess in Hong Kong it's like giving your Hong Kong ID card or your driving license,。
the things that made him a patriarch.。
He trades them for sex.。
He thought he was sleeping with a shrine prostitute.。
That was very much the ancient worship practice.。
The temples, the shrines had their own prostitutes.。
Let's read on.。
"When Judah sent the young goat by his friend the Adalamite to take back the pledge from。
the woman's hand, he did not find her.。
And he asked the men of the place, 'Where is the cult prostitute who was at Enahim at。
the roadside?'。
And they said, 'No cult prostitute had been here.'"。
Jacob clearly had no regard for Yahweh, for God.。
And it gets worse.。
You'll see from the verse on your screen, a few months later, when her belly began to。
bulge a bit, "A servant noticed this and so informed Judah, 'Tamar is with child.'"。
At last, Judah saw the opening he had maybe been looking for.。
In one foul swoop, he could get rid of this bad luck woman, free his youngest son to marry。
someone else, and just be done with the whole thing.。
The best part is that since Tamar was clearly guilty of adultery and/or fornication, putting。
her to death was fully allowed by the law.。
So he could get rid of this problem and not get into trouble for doing so at the same。
time.。
The sort of guy Judah is burns women.。
The book of Leviticus said the punishment was to stone them.。
This guy was about to go one stage further.。
Judah is a self-righteous hypocrite.。
Judah is a liar.。
Judah is a betrayer.。
Judah is a snake with no regard for God.。
A drunk, a pervert, profane, the sort of person who burns women.。
In that moment, she is unmarried, pregnant, and he is declaring his righteousness.。
He is proud.。
He is pompous.。
All of a sudden, the story takes a catastrophic turn.。
Let's read it.。
Verse 25, "As she was being brought out, she sent word to her father-in-law, 'By the man。
to whom these belong, I am pregnant.'。
And she said, 'Please identify who these are, the signet, the cord, and the star.'"。
What a bummer.。
The whole town has turned out to try this woman.。
Nobody could have scripted this.。
Judah is utterly exposed.。
We'll come back to Judah, but this leads me nicely into tonight's topic of brokenness。
and vulnerability.。
Pete Siqueiros on his broken, emotionally healthy series, his group of books, says this,。
"In emotionally healthy churches, people live and lead out of brokenness and vulnerability.。
They understand their leadership in the kingdom of God is from the bottom up and not a grasping,。
controlling, or lording it over others.。
It is leading out of failure and pain, questions and struggles."。
This is what an emotionally healthy church looks like.。
But the question for us is, what does brokenness look like?。
Well, Judah gives us a very good look at what brokenness looks like.。
I've got this definition.。
Brokenness comes from a sin that happens to us, the sin that happens around us, and the。
sin that happens through us.。
Sin that we don't have control over.。
For example, the person who's watching this online and straight away after the service。
is over will get back to watching porn.。
Somebody who has an emotional attachment to maybe a male or female in the office and it's。
very unhealthy.。
There are other things as well.。
People who've been abused, people who are angry.。
Church is made up more of people who would try to control their brokenness than to reveal。
it.。
And my experience is that there are one of three reactions to brokenness in a church.。
We're going to look at them now.。
The first one is to flee.。
Judah's example of dealing with his wife's death was to go to a sheep shearing party。
and mask it with numbing pain.。
When Hong Kong life sucks and things don't go your way, we go to the latest restaurant。
if we can, or we hide it with booze, shopping, spending.。
The second one is to fight.。
We live a bitter and angry life.。
We pick an issue.。
We believe our anger is righteous indignation.。
And the third one is we hide.。
We think we can cover up, put our best out and hide up the unsightly parts of our life.。
All our social media is based on this.。
There are bits of my life that I want you to see.。
This is what Judah does.。
But the thing about Judah, he flees, he fights, he hides.。
Is that things end up going rather well for him.。
After the story, things go well for Judah.。
This is probably going to make you mad.。
But Judah, the muttonhead, gets blessed.。
At the end of his father's life, at the end of Jacob's life, he calls his sons together。
and he speaks words over them.。
Words about their life and legacy and what their life is going to look like.。
A blessing.。
And we see amazingly that nobody gets a blessing like Judah.。
A glowing blessing about his legacy and future.。
Here's what he says in Genesis 49.。
You won't believe this.。
Judah, your brothers shall praise you.。
Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies.。
Your father's son shall bow down before you.。
Judah is a lion's cub from the prey, my son, you have gone up.。
He stooped down.。
He crouched as a lion and as a lioness who dares rouse him.。
The scepter shall not depart from Judah nor the ruler's staff from beneath his feet until。
tribute comes to him.。
And to him shall be the obedience of the peoples.。
Binding his foal to the vine and his donkey's colt to the choice vine, he has washed his。
garments in wine and his vesture in the blood of grapes.。
His eyes are darker than wine and his teeth whiter than milk.。
This is the blessing that Judah receives.。
Is it fair?。
I mean, take Joseph.。
There is no record whatsoever of Joseph sinning his life.。
He saves his people.。
When confronted with Polypha's wife who wants to sleep with him, he flees because he trusts。
God.。
And yet Judah, who has sex with his daughter-in-law, believing she is a prostitute, gets that kind。
of blessing.。
Is it fair to bless a snake like Judah rather than, say, a righteous person like Joseph?。
Look again at verse 10.。
I want to see its significance.。
You probably missed it the first time.。
The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from beneath his feet, until。
tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples.。
My friends, this verse refers to Messiah.。
It is a messianic prophecy.。
Through your line, Judah, this is where the Messiah is going to come through.。
In Matthew 1 we see a genealogy.。
It connects the dots between Abraham and Jesus.。
And look at these verses.。
Where is his lineage?。
Judah.。
Yuck.。
Gross.。
Hold on.。
Let's go back to the time that Judah is exposed.。
Tamar is pregnant and unmarried.。
Judah is the prime accuser until he is found out.。
But he doesn't flee.。
He doesn't fight.。
He doesn't hide.。
He gets real.。
Let's read.。
And she, that is Tamar, said, "Please identify whose these are, the signet, the cord, and。
the staff."。
Then Judah identified them and said, "She is more righteous than I, since I did not。
give her to my son, Shelah."。
He exposes his wickedness and says, "I'm the one who deserves the punishment."。
And he proceeds to get himself right before God to such an extent that we see after Genesis。
38, the 12 sons often referred to as Judah and his brothers.。
Let me give you an example.。
Genesis 44, 14.。
When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there.。
They fell before him to the ground.。
Now the author of Genesis is trying to tell us that Judah has changed.。
Why?。
How?。
He got honest with who he was and he changed as a result.。
In Genesis 44, he promises to his father to take the blame if anything happens to his。
youngest son, Benjamin.。
He even pledges his life.。
You know the story, don't you?。
Joseph rises to a position of power in Egypt.。
Twenty years after being betrayed, he meets his brothers again without recognizing them.。
The youngest brother, Benjamin, had remained in Canaan with Jacob.。
So Joseph takes Simeon hostage and insists that the brothers return with Benjamin.。
Jacob instead offers himself to Jacob as security for Benjamin's safety and manages to persuade。
Jacob to let him take Benjamin to Egypt.。
When the brothers return, Joseph tests them by demanding the enslavement of Benjamin.。
We see Judah pleading for Benjamin's life.。
And this is where we see Joseph revealing his true identity.。
Judah had made a 180 degrees turnaround from selling his brother Joseph into slavery.。
That's how much he had changed.。
And he says, "Let the hurt be on me."。
But why?。
Why did Judah get the blessing?。
Because Judah is acting like Christ.。
The blame due to someone else, he took on himself.。
Let the hurt be on me.。
Who does that remind you of?。
Yes, Christ.。
Jesus substituting for us, taking the punishment that was due to us.。
And Judah becomes an example for us.。
So what do we learn from Judah?。
Two things.。
Firstly, brokenness kept inside destroys us.。
When you keep your sin a secret, it suffocates you.。
Judah believed he was worthless and he lived his life on that premise.。
He got angry because he believed his father didn't love him.。
Behind anger, we often find hurt.。
What holds us in brokenness so often is our shame and it dictates our way of life.。
I'm worthless.。
I crave affirmation.。
I'm dumb.。
I'm not intelligent.。
So I hold my opinion back.。
I'm bad.。
I'm trouble.。
So we keep our brokenness.。
We keep our sins from our friends and from God.。
David in Psalm 32 said, "When I kept silent about my sin, my body wasted away through。
my groaning all day long."。
When you get vulnerable, you get to be you.。
When you get honest, you get to be you.。
Your dreams are on the table and there you'll be known for who you really are.。
Our job here at KFCI is to create a safe space for others to be real.。
A place for the Judah's.。
Now if brokenness kept inside destroys us, the second point is this.。
Grace empowers us.。
The gospel is not legalism.。
It doesn't say you shape up or else.。
The gospel is humble yourself.。
The gospel is be honest.。
Yes, the Bible does say the wages of sin are death, but in the same breath, it tells us。
that you are loved so much by God that his son would pay those wages.。
You see what that does for you.。
It gives you a proper perspective of your self-worth.。
I found this wonderful quote from the book by Francis Spufford called Unapologetic.。
I want to read it to you.。
If you won't hear the bad news about yourself, you can't know yourself.。
You condemn yourself to the maintenance of an exhausting illusion, a false front about。
yourself which keeps out doubt and with it hope, change, nourishment, breath, life.。
If you won't hear the bad news, you can't begin to hear the good news about yourself.。
Jesus is actually looking for people like Judah because they need him.。
Have you been honest to realize today that you still need him?。
Be honest with God.。
Tell him everything.。
That's where grace steps in.。
I think many of you know the story of Amazing Grace and John Newton.。
John Newton was a slave trader.。
In 1748 during his return voyage to England aboard the ship Greyhound, Newton had a spiritual。
conversion.。
From that point on, he avoided profanity, gambling and drinking.。
Although he continued to work in the slave trade for some time, eventually he gave up。
being a slave trader and he became a priest in the Anglican Church.。
He wrote around 250 hymns including Amazing Grace.。
He said "I once was blind but the process took some time as it does for you and I."。
And here's the thing, when you get honest about your brokenness and you say "I want。
to give up binge drinking, gambling, porn, whatever."。
If you give God an inch, he will take a mile.。
Give him just a bit of your brokenness and you will find out just how amazing grace is.。
What God did for Judah, he'll do for you and me.。
You can hardly call Judah or Tamar biblical role models.。
No one would look to either figure in order to determine the best way to combat one's。
life.。
But precisely in their weakness, in their proneness to sin, in the mistakes that each。
makes and in the sin into which both fall, somehow in and through all of that, we can。
maybe identify with these two just a little bit.。
And although we don't want to imitate them, I'm not saying that, we may recognize that。
even so, sometimes we are like them anyway.。
We too make mistakes.。
We too sometimes find ourselves doing or saying things that place us on the opposite side。
of God's desires.。
And sometimes we too may discover that God accomplished something good in our lives despite。
how undeserving we are, despite how badly we messed things up.。
In any event, we know how much we need grace.。
My friends, this is a funny little story, but if it can marvel us to see grace, to marvel。
afresh at the wonder of grace, then it yielded some very good things after all.。
I want to encourage you.。
I'm going to pray for you now to show grace to yourselves and to use that measure to show。
grace to others.。
As the band comes up, may we pray.。
Father God, yeah, we don't want to live a life that is like Judah or Tamar.。
We don't see them as role models.。
But Lord, what we do see through their lives is your amazing grace.。
I pray that today, Lord, we will open our hands and receive that amazing grace.。
We will be prepared to be broken, to be vulnerable.。
And Lord, I pray that you would help us to show grace to ourselves and to show that same。
grace to others.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
