Good evening.。
Well thank you Pastor John for that lovely skit.。
Who enjoyed it?。
Raise your hands.。
Yeah?。
You enjoyed it?。
Yeah?。
Very good.。
All right, my hat just dropped.。
It's okay.。
All good.。
We are doing a character study.。
We're doing a character study.。
And last week we talked about this girl named Mary.。
There's something about Mary.。
And Pastor John reminded us last week that the story of Christmas is about somebody who。
became nobody so that somebodies can be somebodies.。
And Jesus came so that Mary could be a symbol, a symbol and a servant for the Lord.。
And Pastor John last week talked about the calling of Mary.。
This innocent girl, teenage girl in her innocence, yet God chose her and she stood in faith to。
receive this calling from the Lord.。
Today we are going to talk about Joseph.。
Joseph, the father of Jesus.。
And what do we know about Joseph?。
What was his occupation?。
What did he do?。
Was he the CEO of IBM?。
Google?。
No?。
Was he like a football coach?。
No.。
He was a carpenter.。
Who does carpentry here?。
Anybody do company?。
Oh, what do you make?。
Uncle Vincent.。
Anything?。
Wow.。
Can you make a house?。
Can you make a manger?。
Okay.。
All right.。
Very good.。
And so what we know about Joseph is that he was a carpenter.。
And what we know is that he likely died early because he wasn't there as Jesus begun his。
ministry.。
He wasn't there.。
He was only Mary at the resurrection, at the death and the resurrection was only Mary,。
the mother of Mary.。
And so Bonnie did an amazing job reading for us about the birth of Jesus.。
Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found。
to be pregnant by the Holy Spirit.。
Now imagine, right, you're going to marry somebody for those who've been married and。
you find out that this girl is pregnant and it must have been shocking for Joseph, right?。
Imagine you're a fiance, you're about to get married and she's pregnant and you haven't。
done anything with her, right?。
It must have been shocking.。
How do you think Joseph would have felt?。
How do you think?。
Shocked?。
Betrayed?。
Maybe angry?。
Mad?。
How could this happen?。
I would feel so betrayed.。
And so this was Mary's situation, that she was pregnant before she was married.。
And so there would have been all sorts of social dilemmas, social circumstances happening。
because of this, right?。
What would have the parents would have thought, right?。
What would have Joseph's parents would have thought?。
What would have the parents of Mary thought?。
What would have Joseph's parents would have thought?。
What would have her friends and family would have thought?。
Like, how could this happen?。
Mary, we thought you were a good girl, right?。
What happened, Mary?。
What were you thinking, Mary?。
Right?。
And so this was Mary's situation.。
And so Joseph's dilemma would have been this.。
How could I marry a girl that's already pregnant?。
How would it make him look?。
Like he did something with her before they got married, that they would be unclean, right?。
Joseph's laughing.。
He assumed that the child was somebody else's, right?。
Like, Mary, who you been?。
Who are you with?。
You know, the last couple of days or the last couple of weeks or the last couple of months, right?。
He would have been questioning these things.。
And so this would have been happening in Joseph's mind.。
And so the first thing we see about Joseph, that it says in the Bible that he chose, he was going to divorce her privately.。
Okay?。
So that meant maybe not get married with her or get married and quickly divorce her.。
Joseph could have brought shame to Mary, right?。
Women who are unclean or have, or are pregnant before married, getting married, you know,。
there's certain connotations associated with these women.。
But Joseph chose not to bring public disgrace to her.。
He wanted this to go quietly.。
And so it shows that Joseph had some sort of kindness, sensitivity, consideration towards Mary.。
He hadn't done anything wrong, right?。
He knew that, right?。
He knew he was innocent.。
Mary, he wasn't sure about.。
And he could have assumed different things.。
But he chose to divorce her quietly.。
His thinking was to divorce her quietly.。
Next, we read about Joseph's dream.。
Who had a dream last night?。
Anybody have a dream last night?。
Yeah?。
Did you dream about Joseph?。
(laughing)。
I had a dream, but I don't remember.。
Do you guys remember your dream?。
Anybody remember your dream?。
It's really hard to remember your dream, right?。
Unless you think about it right away, and you start like thinking about it,。
then you might remember it.。
I feel like that's how you remember it.。
But anyways, Joseph remembered his dream.。
And what did he dream about?。
Well, an angel spoke to him, right?。
Let's read it once together.。
One, two, three.。
"Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife,。
because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.。
She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus,。
because he will save his people from their sins."。
Joseph did remember this dream, and he remembered it clearly.。
So clearly that Matthew, the writer, wrote it down.。
And you see in this next picture, it's a painting of Joseph sleeping,。
and the angel in his dream, as you see in the next photo.。
You see it yet? No? Okay. Next photo. Yeah. There you go. That's the dream.。
And so what do you think Joseph's options are at this point after the dream?。
Well, the first option would be to listen to the angel, right?。
Okay, I just woke up. I had this dream.。
It must be true. I feel like it must be true.。
An angel spoke directly about this issue.。
Who's had a problem in their life, and they've dreamt about it?。
Have they dreamt and then dreamt solutions about this?。
Who's had an issue, and this issue was so stuck in their mind。
that they started to dream about it?。
Hanani did. Anybody else? Yeah? You've dreamt about it, right?。
Sometimes you keep thinking about things before bed,。
and you dream about it afterwards. It happens.。
So maybe Joseph could have questioned his dream.。
Did I really dream, or was I dreaming about a problem。
that I was thinking about before I slept?。
So he could have continued with the divorce,。
be like, "You know, this dream is probably not something I should believe in."。
But he chose to believe in this dream,。
and he chose to believe in the angel.。
And so it shows that Joseph is a God-fearing man,。
a God-fearing father.。
He chose to follow the angel's instructions.。
Now, it would have been easier to divorce her quietly, right?。
Like, "This woman was pregnant before I got married."。
There's all sort of social connotations that come with that.。
And to divorce her quietly, I did nothing wrong.。
It would have been the easier way out.。
But to marry some, to marry Mary,。
and to have her pregnant already, he would have had to do some explaining,。
just like Pastor John had to explain to his mother, right, on the cell phone.。
And so there, it would have been harder, actually, I believe.。
It would have been harder to have to explain to your friends,。
to your family what has happened,。
and to convince them that, "No, I've not been drinking.。
I have not been smoking," whatever.。
Pastor John said he was smoking.。
But that he was actually chosen.。
He and Mary were chosen by the Lord to parent the Messiah,。
to be the father of Jesus.。
So we see that Joseph is kind-hearted, considerate.。
We see that Joseph is God-fearing.。
The last thing we see about Joseph is that he was a father,。
a protecting father.。
Let's read together one more time.。
One, two, three.。
"After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream。
to Joseph in Egypt and said,。
'Get up, take the child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel,。
for those who are trying to take the child's life are dead.'"。
Who was trying to take the child's life?。
Herod.。
And Herod was the king at that time that the Romans had put forth.。
Now, King Herod, he was shaking in his boots, right,。
because there were prophecies that a king was born.。
And what did he have his soldiers do?。
He had all the soldiers go and kill the children in Bethlehem.。
That's unheard of.。
That's genocide.。
And this is a painting, right, of a mother.。
Imagine being a mother and you have a child under the age of two or three,。
and you're trying to hide that child,。
because soldiers are coming for that child,。
to kill that child on the order of Herod,。
who is so afraid of this coming king,。
because he wants to keep his authority.。
Joseph is a protecting father.。
He chose to take Jesus to Egypt to hide the child.。
And so we see three things from Joseph.。
The first thing is that he is kind, considerate.。
Of the situation he was in,。
with Mary being pregnant before they were going to get married.。
He is God-fearing.。
He chose to listen to the angel.。
He is a protecting father.。
A protecting father.。
And Joseph is a symbol of a great father.。
And when I think of fathers, I think of Pastor John.。
You know, he's a great spiritual father to some of us.。
Who thinks he's a spiritual father to you? Raise your hand.。
Yeah, he's a spiritual father.。
Yeah, he's a spiritual father to me.。
Hi, Pastor John.。
And I've seen him many times go out of his way to help somebody.。
Right? Somebody in need, he would go out of his way。
just to care for that person, just to call that person,。
to give to that person,。
to be a father's heart, to give a father's heart,。
a hug to that person.。
Pastor John is a great example of a spiritual father to us.。
Some people, you know, can be (speaks in foreign language)。
Right? He says that.。
Some people can be (speaks in foreign language)。
But he goes out of his way to help them, pray for them,。
be considerate, kind towards them.。
And when I think about a God-fearing father,。
I actually think of my own father.。
You see the next picture, my own father.。
And I shared this story.。
You've seen this picture before, no?。
Okay, all right.。
I think of my father as a God-fearing father.。
I've shared this story before.。
He studied in a Christian school, middle school or high school。
in Hong Kong.。
And his idol was, do you guys remember who his idol was?。
A Kung Fu master named Bruce Lee, right?。
Wah!。
Right? Yellow suit.。
And he learned that Bruce Lee had, suddenly had cancer.。
Right? He had cancer, yeah?。
No, he didn't have cancer.。
Sorry, what happened to him?。
He died, sorry.。
He didn't have cancer.。
I was testing you.。
I was testing you.。
You see?。
He didn't have cancer.。
He just died suddenly, okay?。
Maybe too many raw eggs or something, or something, I don't know.。
Too much pressure from Hollywood.。
I don't know.。
It's a conspiracy.。
Uncle Vincent's on that conspiracy.。
You can talk to him about it afterwards.。
And at the same time, he learned Bruce Lee died.。
He had some sort of tumor on his wrist.。
And so he was so afraid of death, right?。
And so at that time, he was studying Christian studies,。
and he was getting top marks, and Christians in that class were telling him。
to believe in God.。
And he's like, "No, I don't need to believe in God.。
I have higher Christian marks than you in religious class."。
But that incident of Bruce Lee dying and him possibly having cancer。
shocked him to his core, and he chose to put his faith in Jesus.。
And he received a calling from Jesus to go into seminary.。
And you know how Asian parents are, right?。
My grandmother, what should he study?。
He should be a doctor, a lawyer, an engineer, right?。
But he told his parents, my grandparents, that he was going to go to seminary.。
And how do you think my grandparents reacted?。
Not happy, right?。
My grandmother was crying, like, "What are you doing?。
Don't go."。
My dad was threatening to kick him out of the house,。
but he chose to fear the Lord even more than he chose to fear his parents,。
kicking him out of the house, an example of a God-fearing father.。
And I actually chose myself as an example of a protecting father.。
I don't know why, but back in 2016, when I played basketball,。
there would be a fight a week.。
It doesn't really happen that much anymore.。
But back in 2016, when I did my internship here,。
there would be a fight a week.。
These older basketball players picked on younger players, right?。
And they were so sensitive about fouls or whatnot.。
And many times, I would even go over to another court.。
I was playing basketball in one court, and I saw a fight emerging.。
I would just walk over and just stop them, right?。
I would put out two hands like Iron Man and just, like, stop them, right?。
Like this, right?。
Like there was a civil war, and I would just stop them, right?。
And then I would tell the younger kid, usually, just, "Oh, just walk away.。
They're a little bit, you know, crazy.。
Just walk away."。
And that would be that.。
I would actually take the protecting father role.。
And my friends would be like, "Whoa, what were you doing?。
You just got up and stopped that fight?"。
And I'm like, "Yeah, why didn't you help?"。
They were just, you know, sitting there, drinking water and resting.。
And so there's so many good examples of fathers in our life.。
It could be Pastor John.。
It could be my own father.。
It could be me in the basketball court.。
But the ultimate example of a heavenly father, an ultimate example of an。
amazing father is our heavenly father.。
You know, me, Pastor John, my dad, Joseph, we are just a glimpse of how amazing。
our heavenly father is.。
As kind and considerate as Pastor John is and has as big of a heart as he has to。
love us and to be our spiritual father, our heavenly father is a thousand times more.。
As God-fearing as my dad is, you know, our heavenly father, Jesus, is an example。
a thousand times more.。
As protecting as I am of some of the kids and teens on the basketball court,。
Jesus is a hundred--our heavenly father is a thousand times more protecting of you.。
And that's what I want us to understand today, that we have an amazing father.。
I don't know how your biological father is and how your relationship with him is。
in your life, but I'm here to tell you that you have an amazing heavenly father。
who is perfect in love and in kindness.。
He knows your heart.。
He knows the struggles that you're going through.。
He knows the things that are on your mind that are weighing you down.。
And he is a protecting father.。
He wants to protect you.。
If you step into obedience, if you come into his arms, he is there for you.。
And he wants to bless you.。
And the blessing might not come in this life on earth, but the blessing may come。
eventually in eternity in heaven where there is going to be a perfect,。
perfect life with him in eternity.。
There's this song as the band comes up.。
I want to remind you of the song.。
It says this.。
Let's read it together, actually.。
One, two, three.。
I run to the father.。
I fall into grace.。
I'm done with the hiding, no reason to wait.。
My heart needs a surgeon.。
My soul needs a friend.。
So I run to the father again and again.。
Are you in need of a father's love, a father's heart?。
Are you in need of a father's protection, a father's kindness?。
Would you consider running to the father?。
Joseph was an amazing father.。
Pastor John is an amazing father.。
My dad is an amazing father.。
But the best father of all is our heavenly father.。
Would you run to him?。
Would you fall into his grace, fall into his arms?。
Would you bring him your struggles?。
Would you bring him your pain?。
Would you soak in his love?。
That is the father that is speaking to you tonight,。
that loves you, that wants to hold you,。
that understands you.。
Let's take a moment and just embrace our father's arms,。
heavenly father.。
[music]。
Heavenly father, we thank you for the story of Joseph。
and how an amazing father he was to Jesus.。
We thank you that it points us towards you,。
a kind, loving, protecting father who welcomes us into your arms.。
We thank you for Christmas, that ultimately you sent Jesus。
to protect us from sin, to save us from sin.。
We thank you for Christmas that you sent Jesus。
out of your love and kindness for us.。
We thank you that you call us to obedience, to God-fearing,。
so that we may be blessed by you,。
whether in this life or in eternity.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
And the church said, "Amen."。
Let us rise and respond in this song.。
