Testing, testing.。
Hello everyone, welcome to church.。
I hope you have your mask on.。
I'm victorious part two.。
I'm victorious part two.。
[Clapping]。
Hello everyone, it's good to be able to see you all. As you can see, my family and I, we are going crazy here.。
Cabin fever is for real and no doubt it's the same for you.。
But my prayer is that you guys are all safe and healthy and still able to really connect with God and brothers and sisters during this time.。
So it's a joy to be able to bring you the word today.。
Last week I started I am Victorious part one.。
And it finishes off the series in Ephesians talking about identity.。
And we focus on Ephesians 6, the whole armour of God.。
And I spoke about three things, the battle, the enemy and the victory.。
The battle that started from the moment the serpent deceived Eve.。
And the battle that continues for souls that has been happening before the protests, after the virus was long gone.。
The battle for souls continues until Christ returns.。
Against who? The enemy.。
The enemy who is powerful but also vulnerable.。
Who doesn't have control over us.。
And ultimately the victory.。
The victory that is confirmed already that we just have to be prepared for and to continue to follow God's calling as we wait for Christ to return.。
And this week I'm going to be focusing on the separate parts of the armour of God.。
Now each of these six parts in themselves could be a sermon.。
This could be a sermon series in itself.。
But my intention isn't to unpack each of those to too much of a detail.。
But rather for me these six different parts of the armour of God represent six different battlegrounds that I think we are facing in society today.。
And to link that back to I Am Victorious is how can we choose victory in each of these battlegrounds.。
So I'm going to be going through each one of these for you.。
Let me read to you the word of God.。
Ephesians chapter 6 verse 14.。
Stand therefore having fastened on the belt of truth and having put on the breastplate of righteousness and as shoes for your feet having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace.。
In all circumstances take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one.。
And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the spirit which is the word of God.。
Praying at all times in the spirit with all prayer and supplication.。
This is the word of the Lord.。
So six pieces of armour.。
It's very interesting as we unpack these different types, these different parts and how these relate to us in the battlegrounds that we face.。
The first one is this.。
The belt of truth.。
Verse 14.。
Stand therefore having fastened on the belt of truth.。
And the battleground that this one represents for me is the battle between truth and lies.。
You see it's funny in this day and age where technology is everywhere.。
We have information at our fingertips.。
And yet even though we have all this information somehow what's emerged most is not information but misinformation, disinformation.。
There's news and then there's fake news.。
So somehow even though we have so much technology, so much surveillance, so much accountability, the truth is still hard to find.。
And what scripture is telling us here is truth is so, so important.。
Later on in the very final piece of armour we're going to be talking about truth again.。
But for me here as we look at, as we think about what the belt of truth represents, if we think about what a belt is.。
Have you ever left the house and forgotten your belt?。
I have. It's obviously an awkward feeling because the moment you forget your belt, it's a subtle thing.。
Sometimes you forget it but by forgetting it, even though it's so small and subtle, it's so important.。
And actually the rest of your day is compromised. Your activities are compromised because you're concerned about whether your trousers are going to fall down.。
And the belt really aids us in covering up the most intimate part of us, the most deep parts of who we are.。
And so what the Apostle Paul is saying, at least to me here, is truth is so, so important that our lives, the foundation of our lives, have to be based on truth.。
Especially in this day and age where there's post-modernism and there's post-truth, where what is truth?。
Truth is whatever you feel it is, but we as believers base our lives, our foundation on the Word of God as truth.。
Because we know that if we don't base our lives on truth, they will just be tossed by the winds and the waves and our lives will have no anchor.。
Truth is so, so important in the inmost part of us.。
So this battleground between truth and lies, my question to you is how committed are you to living by the truth?。
How committed are you in finding the truth?。
In the midst of all this fake news, all this misinformation that is coming our way every single day through our phones, through our conversations, how concerned are we?。
How committed are we to truth? That is the first piece of armour.。
The second one is this, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness.。
The breastplate was this shield that a soldier would wear that would cover their main torso, their core part of their body.。
And this part of course would cover all the vital organs.。
Now, we've all been in the cold before, and when it's cold, our body automatically senses that it's cold and needs to limit the losing of heat.。
So our fingers will start to lose heat, they will start to become numb, they will start to go blue, because your body recognises the most important parts of the body, the vital organs need the blood the most.。
So this part, this area here, the heart, for us, we have to guard this with righteousness.。
We have to choose righteousness over sin.。
And that is the second battleground that I think this represents, the battle between righteousness and sin.。
Us choosing to live righteous lives, lives that honour God, lives that choose God over the world.。
Lives that choose righteousness over sin.。
And of course, all of these can be seen in the way that we make decisions.。
Every single day we have so many decisions to make, thousands of decisions that we have to make.。
Some of them are big. What careers to choose, what spouse to choose, how to raise our children, where to live, where to work.。
But of course there are smaller ones as well. There are smaller ones that are maybe, we don't think are as important, but really are very important.。
You know, in England there's a saying, look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves.。
If we focus on the smaller things, these smaller decisions will then add up to the bigger decisions.。
And so my question to all of us today, my question to myself, is how concerned am I, how committed to making righteous decisions am I?。
And every day, you know, the Apostle Paul in Romans 7 says, each time I want to do something good, there's an inner part of me that wrestles,。
that wants for everything I know I should do, I don't do. And the things I don't do, I really should be doing.。
So you've got this internal battle that goes on, even for the Apostle Paul.。
And I think for us, this battleground between righteousness and sin is so important, down to our very small decisions.。
These last few months, seeing that we've been at home, we've been watching and we've been listening to a lot of Frozen 2.。
It's become one of our favourite movies, and better than Frozen 1, you can argue about that yourselves.。
And we love the songs. And there's one song in particular that talks, at least to me, talks about this.。
And it's sung by a character called Anna, it's called "The Next Right Thing".。
Now, I'm not going to try and spoil the movie for you, but in the movie there's a scene where Anna is distraught.。
Things haven't gone as planned, as often in movies there will be a segment of that.。
And for her, she was lost, she doesn't know where to go anymore.。
All her hopes had been shattered, and she was just sad and grieving.。
And then, as the song goes, Anna just comforts herself and eventually lifts herself up.。
And even though she didn't quite know what the future was going to look like, she knew that she just had to commit to the next right thing.。
And that really spoke to Christine and I, because we, since coming to Hong Kong, we've had to make decisions after decisions.。
And just sometimes as adults you just don't know which is the right one.。
Some of them are big and some of them are small.。
And then we end up just reminding ourselves, just choose the next right thing.。
What is the next right thing? What is the righteous choice in this next decision?。
On who to talk to, who to meet, where to take our family, all these small things.。
These small decisions ultimately contribute to who we are.。
So for me, the second battleground between righteousness and sin.。
And ultimately we know that righteousness will win over.。
Let's continue.。
Verse 15.。
"And as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace."。
Have you realised that so far we've had a belt, we've had a breastplate, and now we've got shoes.。
I talked about this last week.。
This battle that Paul talks about isn't quite the same battle that we imagine as people living in this day and age.。
This isn't talking about invading enemy territory.。
But this is about withstanding. This battle is just different.。
And this third one is very interesting. Shoes.。
I mean, I love shoes. In fact, I probably, my Christina would, I guess, say that I have a shoe problem.。
But I love shoes. I love all types of shoes, mostly basketball shoes.。
And one of the things I love about basketball shoes, they are specifically designed to protect and support the type of activity that you're doing.。
This is interesting here because as Paul talks about shoes for your feet, it's having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace.。
Theologians call this the lofty paradox because it's a strange warfare strategy that you would put on shoes to send messengers to talk about peace.。
But we're in battle, but somehow we're talking about the good news. We're talking about peace.。
It's called a lofty paradox. And it's a strange one here.。
But it again highlights that the battle that we are facing here is not one that we are familiar with if we're just looking at earthly perspectives.。
And here, what he's saying is we have to be ones who are carrying the good news around, carrying the gospel of peace to those around us.。
And for me, this part of the armour represents the battleground between good news and bad news.。
Every day we are hounded with bad news, just constantly through our conversations, through our phones, social media, the news.。
It is all bad news. But the gospel tells us, the Bible tells us that we have to combat that by spreading the good news.。
In making people aware that, yes, that the world is bad news, the world is in darkness, that we ourselves have a lot of darkness, but that there is good news.。
I think this part, Paul is thinking about Isaiah 52. How beautiful are the feet of those who take the good news around.。
And as we take the good news, if we wear the right footwear, then we will be protected. We will be supported.。
Our duty in the face of bad news is to be committed to spreading good news around.。
So my question to you is this. How committed to spreading good news are you?。
And right now in this day and age, it might simply be to stop spreading bad news.。
Whenever we receive WhatsApp messages or news articles that we see have the potential to anger people or worry people,。
maybe it's choosing to not spread the bad news, but rather spread the good news, spread the things that we know are true。
and the things that will help lift people up and to glorify God. How committed are we in spreading the good news?。
As we continue, verse 16, "In all circumstances, take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one."。
The shield that Paul is talking about that was used in warfare back then would be these huge door-sized shields。
and they would dip them into water so then, so when the darts would come, when the flaming darts would come,。
these big shields would extinguish the fires. And what is the shield of? Representing faith.。
See, for me, this armour represents the battleground between hope and hopelessness.。
You see, the word, the Bible uses the word faith and hope interchangeably.。
It's talking about this hope and faith in being sure, being certain of what is to come.。
This isn't an earthly kind of hope and I've spoken to us about this before at the end of last year.。
This isn't the hope where we, "Oh, we hope the virus stops soon. We hope that the weather will get warmer.。
We hope that people, we hope there'll be toilet roll in welcome." It's not that kind of hope.。
But this hope is one where we can say, "Jesus is coming back. He will redeem this world."。
We hope for the best. Not in the earthly sense, we hope for the best.。
We have faith that the best is coming, that the best is yet to come because Jesus is returning.。
And when we hold that hope, if we hold that shield of faith, so when the enemy throws darts at us,。
when the schemes come right at us, we can hold the shield of faith up and we can choose hope over hopelessness.。
Linking this back to the one before about spreading good news,。
there are so many people in this city that are currently just lacking hope,。
that just feel as though their situation is hopeless.。
How committed are we in helping them, getting beside them,。
showing them and reminding them of the hope that we have in Jesus?。
Something interesting about this shield of faith is that the shield that was used back then,。
whilst they would be huge on their own and do quite a good job,。
the Romans would also use them to interlock with each other.。
So you'd have multiple shields all connected with each other.。
And then you would form kind of like a big barrier, a corporate protection, if you would say.。
And in some ways that reminds me that faith, we can all hold our own shields,。
but sometimes it just gets tiring when the enemy's darts keep flying at us.。
But if we lock these shields together, if we stand beside each other,。
then we have a much better chance of defending ourselves,。
a much better chance of withstanding assault.。
So how committed are we to protecting ourselves, to maintaining hope?。
How committed are we in doing this together?。
To not letting things, events like what's happening now with the virus,。
to not letting them divide us, but for us to say, you know what?。
Let us fight this together. Let us commit to each other.。
Let us lock shields of faith. That is the one I'm talking about here.。
Verse 17, "And take the helmet of salvation."。
This is an interesting one. Still, by the way, we haven't come across a piece of attacking armour yet,。
just if I might say so, but the "take the helmet of salvation."。
And for me, this represents the battle of identity.。
This links back to kind of the whole series that we've been talking about identity.。
The helmet of salvation, for me, this is about protecting our minds, remembering who we are.。
The battleground of identity is between, are we children of God or are we orphans who are lost?。
Remembering who we are is so important.。
You watch those movies where there's a main character who really kind of is struggling through life。
and then faces adversity, faces challenges, gets themselves into a battle,。
but towards the end of the movie, they realise who they are.。
And once they realise who they are, suddenly they have all the power in the world。
and they're able to overcome all the things that they didn't before.。
I think sometimes we fight this battle of identity and we forget who we are and we lose this battle.。
And the moment we lose it, we forget that we are children of God, that we are protected by the Most High God.。
That is when we give the enemy a foothold, when we start believing the lies that he feeds us.。
So our job here to put on the helmet of salvation is to remember in our minds who we are,。
that we are saved, that that is assured.。
And from there, that then determines how we behave.。
You see, when you know who you are, you're not afraid because you know who is behind you.。
And that if God is for you, none can be against.。
That no weapon formed against you will prosper because of who is beside you and because of who you are.。
So put on the helmet of salvation and remember who you are.。
And the final one is this, the sword of the spirit.。
Finally, an attacking piece of armour.。
But still, a sword is not something that we can really use,。
especially when there's darts thrown at us from afar by the enemy.。
So this sword is really just still for close combat, for defending ourselves.。
And the battleground for me for this one is when faced with challenges, when in battle,。
and it's the enemies right in your face.。
What weapons are we going to choose to use?。
Are we going to choose to use our own weapons, which would be our own wisdom,。
our own gifts, our own experiences, or do we choose to use God's weapons?。
When we fight our battles, are we fighting them, are we choosing to fight them on our own?。
Or are we relying on the power of God?。
See this last one here, the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God.。
God, if we choose to use God's weapons, there are really two elements to this.。
Number one is the word of God.。
Going back to the first point, the belt of truth, the word of God is truth.。
We fight our battles with truth, with the word of God.。
Just like Jesus did when he was face to face with the devil in the desert.。
Every time the devil tried to tempt him, he would respond with the word of God.。
How committed are we in using this weapon that is the word of God?。
How committed are we to spending time in his word and finding out more about this battle,。
finding more about this enemy, and ultimately giving us hope。
and reminding ourselves of the victory that is at hand?。
This battleground is so important because if we fight these battles on our own,。
we are doomed to fail.。
Remember last week, we said the enemy is powerful, much more powerful than us.。
But if we remember who we are and if we choose to use God's weapons,。
then we will win and we will have the victory.。
The word of God is so important.。
And the second thing, of course, the sword of the spirit also means praying at all times in the spirit.。
How committed are we to praying?。
Praying for the battle that is outside, praying for the virus, praying for the protests,。
praying for all the sides that are involved in this.。
How committed are we to praying?。
I was convicted a couple of days ago myself.。
I was reading a devotional and it was talking about the passage from the Philippians。
about not being anxious about anything, but in everything, through prayer and supplication,。
present our requests to God.。
And then the peace that transcends all understanding will be ours.。
And I'm wrestling with this.。
And of course, everyone is anxious outside.。
And I was just talking to my small group the other day about how Hong Kong is just a city。
that just brings all those anxieties to the forefront.。
For me, it was like, gosh, I am so anxious.。
I am so just worried about everything.。
And then this word of God just reminded me to not be anxious about anything, but in everything,。
through prayer and supplication.。
And I'm thinking, wow, I don't pray enough.。
I'm anxious because I don't pray enough.。
You know, Matthew 6 talks about us not to worry, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness.。
And I'm not doing that.。
I'm not praying enough.。
I'm not spending enough time in the word of God, because it's a very simple equation.。
If we're anxious, but if we pray, then we will have peace.。
So for me, it's how committed am I to pray and spending time with God?。
And that's exactly what Jesus did.。
He modelled this for us.。
He came into this world, into the battleground, faced the enemy,。
and he relied on the word of God, and he would regularly go and pray.。
How much do I do that?。
How much do you do that?。
And that is my question to you.。
How committed are you to using God's weapons?。
Because prayer is a powerful weapon.。
So, brothers and sisters, those are the six points, the belt of truth,。
the breastplate of righteousness, the shoes of peace, the shield of faith,。
the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the spirit.。
As we've whizzed through each of these and we've looked at the battlegrounds that they face,。
my encouragement to you is that the battle has already been won.。
Truth will overcome the lies of the devil.。
And the second one, righteousness will ultimately win over sin.。
The good news will ultimately have the final say.。
And then the next one, faith, hope will ultimately banish all hopelessness.。
Our identity, salvation, us being children of God, will be our final identity.。
We will not be made orphans again at the end.。
And the final one, let us choose to use God's weapons instead of our own.。
Brothers and sisters, it's been a joy to share the word of God with you.。
I know it's been short. I know it's hard to just be on our own.。
I know that many of us are struggling with just the loneliness and the isolation and just the anxiety.。
But I pray, I pray that God will remind you of his love and faithfulness to you.。
And that we, as a body of Christ, in Confort Church or in the Church of Hong Kong,。
that we will commit to continue to praying for each other, to spending time in the word of God。
and knowing that if things will happen in this world, in this world there will be trouble.。
It is a battle. There is an enemy.。
But ultimately, there is the victory.。
And our identities are secure.。
Love you all. Hope to see you all soon.。
Bless you.。
you.。
