(silence)。
- Wasn't expecting that, but good evening, church.。
(audience laughing)。
I'm excited to dive into God's word with you all today.。
Yeah, as a church in preparation for Easter,。
we've been going through the parables of Jesus.。
And we're not only doing this as KFCI alone,。
our local church, but we're joining along。
with other churches in Hong Kong and around the world。
as part of the One Campaign.。
And now today we'll continue on with the parable。
of the rich fool in Luke 12.。
We'll be discussing a topic that's maybe on everyone's mind,。
and as you can tell by the name,。
the parable of the rich fool,。
today we'll be talking about money.。
Now money really needs no introduction.。
We're all very familiar with money.。
It's something we use, whether we have lots of it。
or not much of it at all.。
Money is often front of mind for lots of people.。
It's why some of us go to school or we go to work。
or we want our kids to go to good schools。
so that we can find a good job and then make lots of money.。
Or for some, money can be a big criteria。
when looking for romantic partners or making friends.。
That's just how it is sometimes.。
So today we're talking about money.。
But notice that this is the parable of the rich fool.。
It's also a parable about foolishness.。
Now foolishness also needs no introduction.。
We're all very familiar with foolishness,。
some of us more than others.。
But this is the parable of the rich fool.。
It's a parable about both money and foolishness.。
It's a story teaching us about foolish attitudes。
towards God and money.。
It prompts us to ask ourselves the question,。
are we fixated on money in a foolish way?。
Have we become fools in our love of money?。
And now before we get into the parable,。
I want to set the stage a little bit for the story.。
Because what we read today isn't just a standalone story.。
It's not just one parable.。
It's only a small section of the book of Luke,。
which in itself is only a small portion of the entire Bible.。
And if we flip to our Bibles。
and we only look at verses in isolation,。
picking out a few verses at a time,。
we might overlook something that is communicated。
as part of the bigger picture,。
something that we'd only see with more context.。
And there's something important that I'd like us to notice。
from the events leading up to this parable today.。
There's a reason why Jesus told this particular parable.。
Right, in verse 13, we learn that someone in the crowd。
said to Jesus, "Teacher, tell my brother。
"to divide the inheritance with me."。
And then Jesus tells this parable in response to his request.。
Now what's the setting behind this request?。
In Luke 12, Jesus was preaching to his disciples。
before a large crowd.。
Look at verse one.。
It says that when so many thousands of the people。
had gathered together that they were trampling one another,。
he began to say to his disciples.。
Right, so from this, we see that there was a large crowd。
of many thousand people trampling over one another。
to get to Jesus and to hear him speak.。
And in the middle of all that, Jesus speaks to his disciples。
but we know that the crowd was listening in。
because if we skip forward to verse 41,。
Peter, one of Jesus' disciples, asks him,。
"Lord, are you telling this parable for us or for all?"。
And if the crowds weren't there listening,。
then there'd be no reason for Jesus,。
for Peter to ask this question to him.。
If there was no crowd, there'd be no one else。
that Jesus was addressing.。
So this question suggests that the crowds were listening。
in on Jesus as he was teaching his disciples.。
The crowd, including the man in verse 13.。
So we know that the crowd and the man。
was listening to Jesus teach.。
And so we ask, what was Jesus preaching about?。
If we look at chapter 12,。
we'll see that he was talking about some pretty big stuff.。
In chapter 12, the thrust of his teaching。
is a call for us to open our eyes。
and expand our line of sight and see God.。
Sometimes we're so laser focused。
on the details right in front of us,。
like my hand looks really big right now,。
but that we miss the bigger picture of who God is。
and God's purpose for us in all of this.。
We can't go through the whole chapter right now,。
but here's a few snippets of Jesus' teaching.。
It's actually quite radical.。
Verses four and five, he says,。
"Do not fear those who kill the body.。
"Don't fear those who kill the body."。
He's saying, "Gun to your head, don't be afraid."。
'Cause what can that guy do?。
Just pull the trigger?。
All he can do is kill your body.。
That's it, kill your body.。
Now that's some pretty extreme stuff.。
It's quite jarring, but that's not all.。
He goes on and says,。
"Don't fear those who kill the body.。
"I'll tell you who to fear.。
"Fear him who after he has killed。
"has authority to cast into hell.。
"Yes, I tell you, fear him."。
Are you worried about your life?。
He says, "If that is the case, I'll tell you who to fear.。
"Fear God who not only can kill your body,。
"but sentence you to eternal conscious torment in hell.。
"Yes, I tell you, fear God."。
That's some heavy stuff.。
Verses six and seven, "Fear God and then fear not."。
This great God who you should fear。
is also a God who loves you deeply,。
who knows you intimately,。
even he who counted all the hairs on your head.。
He holds all of creation in his hands,。
and he cares for you.。
So behold your God, fear him, and then fear not.。
Verses eight and nine, he says,。
"Everyone who acknowledges me before men,。
"the Son of Man will also acknowledge。
"before the angels of God.。
"But the one who denies me before men。
"will be denied before the angels of God."。
Now this sounds hugely important too.。
Jesus says that everyone who accepts him。
will be accepted before God and his angels,。
but everyone who rejects him。
will also be rejected on the last day.。
The eternal state of your soul。
depends on whether you confess Jesus as the Son of God.。
He goes on, but for all,。
this is all heavy and weighty stuff.。
He's dropping major bombshells over this whole crowd.。
So far, we see he wasn't talking about money at all,。
not at all.。
There were bigger things at stakes,。
things that belong to salvation, right?。
And with that, we come to verse 13.。
With all that hanging over us,。
right, look at what happens.。
This is pretty crazy.。
Someone in the crowd said to him,。
"Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.。
"Tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me."。
In the middle of all this,。
in the middle of all that Jesus was saying,。
somebody had the gall to interrupt and demand,。
"Tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me."。
Like what?。
This request comes out of nowhere.。
It's a complete non sequitur.。
It's so weird.。
It's like, what are you even talking about?。
The situation at hand is fear him。
who has authority to cast into hell.。
And this guy raises his hand and says,。
"Teacher, my brother won't give me his inheritance."。
Like imagine sitting next to this guy.。
I'd wanna kick him, like, "What are you doing?。
"Like read the room.。
"Now's not the right time, not the time.。
"Come on, man."。
Right, in the context of what Jesus taught,。
this request, this demand really comes out of nowhere.。
It's so out of place.。
It's so silly.。
We might even call it foolish, right?。
It was a foolish demand.。
It was a foolish thing for him to ask.。
This man made a foolish request for money.。
Why was this so dumb?。
Let me elaborate.。
From this man, we learn an important point.。
A foolish love of money both comes from not seeing God。
and also results in us not seeing God.。
We love money because we don't love God.。
And conversely, when we love money, we don't love God.。
Right, this man was foolish。
because he completely missed the point of what Jesus said。
and who Jesus really is.。
In verse 14, Jesus rebukes the man saying,。
"Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you?"。
Now, at the time, it was custom for Jewish teachers。
or rabbis to mediate or arbitrate in disputes.。
And this man came to Jesus,。
seeing him as just one of the other teachers。
that he could use to settle his disputes.。
Right, he didn't seem to listen to Jesus or learn from him.。
Otherwise, he wouldn't have jumped in。
in the middle of Jesus' teaching this way.。
He missed the point.。
His dispute wasn't Jesus' purpose.。
It wasn't his mission.。
Jesus came to us, God as man,。
to proclaim the kingdom of God,。
to call people to repentance,。
and then die on the cross for our sins。
in order to reconcile us to God and to each other.。
Right, this man didn't recognize Jesus.。
He was blinded from seeing what God。
was literally doing right before his eyes.。
And that's the root of his foolishness.。
He didn't know God.。
He didn't know Jesus.。
And what's also foolish is how light。
and trivial his request really was.。
Right, he could have asked Jesus for anything,。
anything that he wanted,。
and what he wanted most was his brother's inheritance.。
He wanted money, but not only that.。
He wanted his brother's money.。
He wanted Jesus to take money from his brother。
and then give it to him.。
He wanted Jesus to intervene。
and finalize this dispute with his brother,。
to put a nail in the coffin。
and put this relationship beyond reconciliation.。
And he did this because he was covetous.。
He was greedy for money.。
And out of all the things he could have asked for,。
we see what comes out top in his heart.。
Out of all the things he could have asked for,。
seeing Jesus, God face to face, he asked for money.。
It's foolishness, right?。
Jesus had just said earlier in verse eight,。
"Everyone who acknowledges me before men,。
"the Son of Man, will also acknowledge。
"before the angels of God."。
The man asked Jesus for an inheritance,。
but he asked for the wrong inheritance.。
He could have asked Jesus for an inheritance。
that is imperishable, undefiled, unfading,。
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.。
He could have asked Jesus to acknowledge him。
on the last day.。
He could have done that, but that wasn't his top priority.。
Instead, it was money.。
Money and not God is what he wanted.。
Now that's foolishness, that's foolishness.。
But I wonder if we also do this, right?。
Let us examine ourselves as well.。
If put in the same situations, would we also be fools?。
Now maybe if you never heard of Jesus,。
it's your first time at church,。
or never believed in him,。
and quite naturally, you take the money.。
If that's you, keep listening,。
because I have good news for you.。
That's better than all the money in the world.。
But first, I'll address the church, right?。
I'm speaking to you, church.。
We know God, we have his word.。
We know God's plan, that we are sinners。
and we couldn't save ourselves,。
but that God made us alive together with Christ.。
We know that people from every tribe, nation, and tongue。
will bow down and worship our Lord.。
We know that there's this hope of glory that awaits us.。
These are big, heavy, glorious things,。
things like what Jesus was talking about.。
But sometimes don't we also get fixated at our problems,。
the cares of life right in front of us here and now?。
It's quite understandable because we spend so much time。
in the rhythms of daily life.。
We live in the world, we go to school, we go to work,。
we have families, we're dating, we have hobbies,。
the baby's crying, the toilet's clogged.。
We live in the world and we're surrounded。
by the cares of this world.。
And so I ask you, church,。
do we act like this man sometimes。
with our eyes off the ball, distracted,。
forgetting who God is,。
forgetting the truth that we confess?。
What's the top thing on our mind right now?。
Are you anxious about your life, what you'll eat,。
what you'll wear, where you'll live, where you'll work,。
who you will marry?。
But if God so clothes the grass of the field,。
which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven,。
how much more will He clothe you, O you of little faith?。
All the nations of the world seek after these things。
and your heavenly Father knows that you need them.。
So instead, let us seek His kingdom。
and all these things will be added to you.。
Let us remind ourselves of the God who loves us,。
that we should fear who cares for us。
and fix our gaze on Him,。
'cause it's foolish to do otherwise.。
Let's keep this idea in mind as we move on。
to Jesus' response and to the parable at hand.。
Let's look at verse 15.。
"And He said to them,。
"'Take care and be on your guard against all covetousness.。
"'For one's life does not consist。
"'in the abundance of his possessions.'"。
Right, this is important。
because this is the focus of the parable today.。
This is Jesus' main idea.。
And He uses this parable to illustrate this point,。
what He means, right?。
And if you look at it, there's a command given.。
"Take care and be on your guard against all covetousness."。
Now let's look at what covetousness means,。
since it's not a word that we use too often these days.。
I would describe covetousness here。
as an insatiable desire for more and more,。
and especially for more material possessions.。
It's a never-ending compulsion to have more and more,。
and especially of more stuff, right?。
The original work for covetousness in Greek is pleonexia,。
but thankfully, as English speakers,。
we don't need to be experts in Greek or Hebrew。
to understand God's word, right?。
We're blessed to have an abundance of English translations。
that faithfully preserve God's word for us.。
And what technique we can use when studying scriptures。
to compare different translations to see what it means.。
And if we do that, we'll find that most English translations。
render the word covetousness here, pleonexia,。
instead as greed, right?。
"Be on guard against all greed" is another way of saying it.。
Guard yourselves against this compulsion。
for more and more, this greed.。
The second half of verse 15 also elaborates on covetousness.。
It says that, "One's life does not consist。
"in the abundance of his possessions."。
So we see that covetousness or greed,。
pleonexia relates to the desire。
for an abundance of possessions.。
And that today is what this parable is about.。
It warns us against this covetousness.。
There's a command, "Take care,。
"be on your guard against all covetousness."。
And with the command, there's a reason given for it.。
Do this because one's life does not actually consist。
in the abundance of his possessions.。
Your life isn't about money.。
It'd be foolish to think that way.。
And for the rest of our time today,。
we'll be unpacking how this parable explains this command。
and the reason for the command.。
All right, let's start from verse 16.。
"And Jesus told them a parable saying,。
"the land of a rich man produced plentifully.。
"And he thought to himself, what shall I do?。
"For I have nowhere to store my crops.。
"And he said, I will do this.。
"I'll tear down my barns and build larger ones.。
"And there I will store all my grains and my goods."。
Now let's observe a few things, right?。
First, this man was rich.。
He's said to be a rich man.。
He owned land and the land produced plentifully.。
It was a good year for him.。
But even before the harvest, he was already rich.。
He was rich enough to have barns built up。
before this massive harvest.。
Now let's face it, some of us here in this room are rich.。
Some of you are rich and can identify with this rich man.。
There's some of us here that God has entrusted。
with abundant material possessions.。
Maybe you worked hard for five, 10, 30 years,。
saved up quite a bit of money.。
Or you bought like one stock this one time。
and now it's up 10 or 100 times in value.。
You're rich, you got lucky,。
and this parable feels quite relatable to you.。
But some of us here wouldn't consider ourselves rich.。
You're sitting here thinking,。
how does this parable actually apply to me?。
Like my Octopus card might even have。
a negative balance right now.。
How's this applicable?。
Well, keep listening because this parable。
isn't primarily about being rich or poor or having money.。
It's not a how-to guide on what to do if you're rich.。
Again, Jesus's main point is take care,。
be on your guard against all covetousness.。
And we can be covetous or greedy。
while being either rich or poor.。
So be on your guard against greed and covetousness.。
The parable gives us two reasons why.。
Number one is that covetousness or greed。
is ignorantly self-centered.。
It is covetousness or greed is self-centered.。
And to see that, let's do something a bit interactive.。
I'll need some audience participation.。
So I'm going to read the parable again。
with some minor edits, my translation.。
But as I read, I want you to count。
the number of uses of the first person,。
the number of times this guy is referring to himself.。
So it could be pronouns like I, me, my, so on,。
but count the number of times he's thinking。
or talking about himself.。
All right, you guys ready?。
Let's do this.。
Okay.。
"The land of a rich man produced plentifully.。
"And he thought to himself, 'What shall I do?。
"'For I have nowhere that I may store my crops.'。
"And he said, 'I will do this.。
"'I will tear down my barns and I will build larger ones.。
"'And there I will store all my grain and goods.。
"'And I will say to my soul,。
"'Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years.。
"'Relax, eat, drink, be merry.'"。
How many did you guys count?。
All I know is that I ran out of fingers.。
But the point is that the rich man in this parable。
is totally absorbed with himself.。
All right, the purpose of his money is himself.。
It's all about him.。
Right, we counted how often that he refers to himself,。
but let's do another exercise.。
Let's repeat this, counting the number of times。
that he refers to others or to God.。
I'll tell you, that game is a lot easier.。
You can try it on your own, but I'll give you the answer.。
How many times does he bring up God or others?。
Zero, zero, right?。
He makes no mention.。
He has no care or concern for any others.。
The reason for his money,。
the thing that's fueling his greed or covetousness。
is so that he can say to himself,。
"Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years.。
Relax, eat, drink, be merry."。
That's his ultimate goal, his ultimate purpose.。
It's himself, right?。
But there's also something worse than not caring for others.。
Pastor Johnny preached last week on the Good Samaritan.。
It was prompted by this.。
We learned that the greatest commandment。
is to love the Lord your God。
with all your heart, soul, mind, strength,。
and then to love your neighbor as yourself.。
The rich man's love for money, his covetousness,。
led him not only to no love for his neighbor,。
but even worse than that, to no love for God.。
Right, sure the man was rich.。
The land produced plentifully,。
but he failed to recognize that all of it was from God.。
God created everything.。
He created us and gave us life and breath.。
He provides for all of us.。
Right, Psalm 24 says,。
"The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof,。
the world and all who dwell therein."。
All of creation belongs to God.。
It's all his.。
The man's harvest is God's.。
His riches are God's.。
And in the same way, all our money,。
everything that we have also is God's.。
God is the one who brought him the massive harvest.。
Psalm 104 says, "You cause the grass to grow for livestock。
and plants for man to cultivate,。
that he may bring forth food from the earth."。
God is the one who brought him the harvest.。
And in the same way for us, when we go to work every day,。
yes, we work hard and we earn our salary,。
but it's not all from us.。
God is the one who provides.。
He's the one who holds us in his hands.。
And one way that he does this is through giving us jobs,。
meaningful work for us to do.。
And maybe the rich man, he worked the fields.。
We don't know that, it doesn't say,。
but either way, even if he did, God brought the harvest。
and God provides for us through our work as well.。
And so we see that against covetousness is self-centered.。
Greed makes us fools because it prevents us,。
it blinds us from seeing God's goodness to us.。
A love of money blinds us from seeing God.。
We might think that the money is ours, it's for us,。
it's from us, but it's not.。
It's a work of God.。
So we see covetousness is foolishly self-centered.。
Secondly, covetousness puts its faith in money.。
Greed puts its faith in money.。
Look at this parable.。
This guy is totally dependent on his money.。
That's why he wants more and more and never has enough.。
To him, life is entirely about the abundance。
of his possessions, how much he owns.。
And so he wants bigger barns so that he can store up more.。
That's what his life depends on, how much stuff he owns.。
It's what his life is all about.。
We see this heart in verse 19.。
And I will say to my soul,。
you have ample goods laid up for many years.。
Relax, eat, drink, be merry.。
The thought process is that money is my comfort.。
Money is my security.。
And if I have money, then I will be happy.。
Like if I have money, nothing can hurt me.。
I can live a good life for many years.。
Money lets me relax, eat, drink, be merry.。
I have money, I can live now.。
That's the rich man's attitude.。
And I wonder if we sometimes share that as well.。
Is there anything that we're looking forward to?。
Is there something that you think。
that if I finally get this one thing, then I'll be happy?。
I've definitely had some of these thoughts before.。
Maybe you're working hard trying to save up。
for your dream home for retirement.。
And you're thinking, once I have that one thing,。
then I can relax, eat, drink.。
Or aside from money, it could be dating, marriage, family.。
Let me find a beautiful wife or a handsome husband,。
two kids, and then once I have that,。
then I can say to my soul, be merry.。
And what's the problem with this?。
Those things in and of self aren't bad things.。
They are gifts from God.。
The problem is that we weren't meant。
to place our faith in them.。
They can't bear the weight of our expectations.。
Let's look at verse 20.。
God said to him, "Fool, this night your soul。
"is required of you, and the things that you have prepared,。
"whose will they be?。
"And so is the one who lays up treasure for himself。
"and is not rich toward God."。
He was a fool at the end of the day.。
A rich fool, but a fool, and also a dead fool.。
His money wasn't trustworthy, it wasn't dependable.。
It wasn't worthy of his faith.。
You think that money could save you?。
No, what can man give in exchange for his soul?。
Nothing, we're a mist that appears for a little time。
and then vanishes.。
We can't control the day we were born。
and the day we die, no matter how rich we are.。
Even if you had it all, you could just die.。
Or when life gets rough, you have your dream home,。
but now the housing market's down 20, 30%,。
or there's problems in your marriage.。
Now you're tripping and falling,。
you reach out and try to grab the rope that will save you,。
only to discover it was just wind.。
There's nothing there.。
We were chasing after the wind。
like we learned in Ecclesiastes.。
Money, the thing we covet, nothing can satisfy our souls.。
We can't put our faith in these things,。
they're not dependable.。
We were meant to put our faith in God instead,。
a God who never changes, who keeps his word,。
who loves us and cares for us.。
And church, we have access to such a God。
through faith in Christ.。
Let us not be like the man in verse 13.。
Who went to Jesus, who had the chance。
to see Jesus face to face,。
and all he could ask for was money.。
We have all the riches of God through Christ.。
Don't throw it all away for money。
that's here for a little while and gone tomorrow.。
It's foolish for us to put our faith in money.。
The third thing is that covetousness is foolish。
because covetousness will kill us.。
Covetousness will kill you.。
How does it do that?。
Setting aside God isn't just foolish,。
it's offensive to God.。
It's sin, and the punishment for sin。
is death that God prescribed.。
Ephesians 5:16 says, "You may be sure of this,。
that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure,。
or who is covetous, that is an idolater,。
has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God."。
Note that it says that covetousness,。
everyone who is covetous is an idolater.。
Covetousness is idolatry.。
It's the worship of something that is not God.。
The love of money robs God.。
It robs God of the glory that he's due,。
the recognition and honor that he deserves.。
And when we seek money instead of him,。
God won't stand for that.。
We saw how covetousness worships the self.。
A love of money says that everything is from myself。
and for myself.。
Romans 11 says of God, "From him and through him。
and to him are all things.。
To him be the glory forever."。
Instead, covetousness and greed says, "Me, me, me, not him."。
Covetousness is also the worship of money.。
It says that I want money the most.。
I'll put all my security in money.。
Greed makes us look away from God,。
to the God who works all things。
for the good of those who love him,。
who gives life to the dead,。
who calls to existence things that do not exist.。
The God in whose presence is fullness of joy。
and life forevermore.。
The God who sits enthroned with angels。
and seraphim praising him,。
surrounded by flash of lightning.。
They're all singing, "Holy, holy, holy。
is the Lord God almighty, who was and is to come."。
But covetousness, greed looks at such a God。
and instead says, "No, I'll take the money instead."。
It makes a joke out of our holy God.。
And God can't tolerate our idolatry.。
He is passionate for his glory,。
that he is recognized as God and recognized as worthy.。
He says through Isaiah, "I am the Lord, that is my name.。
My glory I give to no other,。
nor my praise to carved idols."。
And that's why Ephesians 5 says。
that those who are covetous are idolaters。
and also that they will have no inheritance。
in the kingdom of Christ and God.。
Greed is the worship of self and money rather than God.。
And God can't tolerate us praising such worthless things.。
And so we are cut out from the kingdom of God。
and sentenced to death.。
We saw this happen to the rich man in verse 20.。
He says, "Fool, this night your soul is required of you。
and things that you have prepared, whose will they be?"。
And those words weren't directed at him alone.。
Jesus leaves us a warning in verse 21.。
He says, "So is the one who lays up treasure for himself。
and is not rich toward God."。
So if you are covetous, the same will also happen for you.。
You will also die.。
And if we're honest with ourselves,。
we'll discover that we are all a little bit。
like the rich man in the parable, right?。
In our attitudes towards God and money.。
How many of us can truly say。
that we've trusted God perfectly?。
That he has always been our greatest joy。
and that we have never looked elsewhere for satisfaction.。
We're all a little bit like the man。
who demanded his brother's inheritance, right?。
Who of us can honestly say, "I always put God first.。
I see him as he truly is.。
I love him perfectly."。
None of us love and worship God as we ought to.。
And so all of us deserve death.。
We all deserve death because of our sins.。
And that's why we all need Jesus, right?。
Jesus was a good teacher.。
He spoke to the crowds and he taught in parables,。
but he is so much more than that.。
Jesus is righteous in a way that we are not.。
Jesus also was tempted by money.。
He was sent by the Holy Spirit to the wilderness。
where he was tempted by the devil。
with all the riches in the world,。
if only he would bow down before him and worship.。
But he overcame temptation and chose to worship God instead.。
Jesus valued God.。
He considered God more worthy。
than anything else in the world.。
And also Jesus died on the cross for our sins。
so that all who believe in him。
will be forgiven of their sins.。
And not only are we forgiven, but also given new life。
just as Jesus also rose from the dead, right?。
Jesus died not only to pay the penalty for our sins,。
the penalty that we deserve,。
but Jesus came to give us new life, right?。
Jesus came to set us free from sin also.。
In Christ, we are no longer slaves to chase,。
to covet after money.。
Jesus took away our foolishness。
and became to us wisdom from God,。
righteousness and sanctification and redemption.。
Life does not consist of the abundance of one's possessions.。
Life is found in knowing God, glorifying him。
and enjoying him forever.。
And Jesus died to give us this life.。
He died the righteous for the unrighteous。
in order to bring us to God.。
He died to set us free from our sins.。
We saw this earlier in verse eight, right?。
"Everyone who acknowledges me before men,。
"the Son of God also will acknowledge。
"before the angels of God."。
The only way to God is through Jesus.。
And we ask, what should we do?。
Maybe some of you in this room。
only heard about Jesus for the first time today.。
You haven't yet put your faith in Jesus。
or aren't following him yet.。
Or some of you here have gone to church for many years,。
but when you'd call yourself a Christian,。
but when you examine your life,。
when you look into your hearts, there's a nagging feeling.。
I'm still worshiping money.。
I don't really trust God.。
Maybe I still have tunnel vision on the cares of this world.。
I care so much about my job, my work, money,。
rather than the kingdom of God.。
If that's the case with you,。
then today's the day for salvation.。
Today's the day to turn to Christ and be saved.。
If that's the case with you,。
please find me or one of the pastors after the service.。
We'd love to pray with you to tell you more。
about what it means to follow Jesus.。
And after you do that, or for the church,。
remember there's a command given in verse 15.。
Jesus says, "Take care and be on your guard。
against all covetousness."。
He doesn't just say do not covet,。
but it's a positive command as well.。
He says, "Take care, be on your guard, watch out.。
Don't get anywhere even near covetousness."。
How can we do that?。
How can we take care and be on guard?。
There's two things.。
The first is that we need the church.。
You can stay on guard, you can watch out on your own,。
but it's a lot easier when done in community。
with the rest of the church.。
It's so hard to fight greed and covetousness。
because the sin is so insidious.。
We live in the world, in a world that doesn't love God.。
We're surrounded every day by covetousness,。
by greed, a love of money.。
All around us, especially in Hong Kong,。
people are stressing out about money, talking about money.。
I work in finance.。
I go to work and surrounding me is just money.。
So the temptation towards success and wealth。
is there every day.。
And that's why we need the church.。
We need brothers and sisters fighting alongside,。
side by side with us, watching our backs,。
to take notice when sin is crouching at the door。
and to point us back to Christ day by day.。
When we're living life together in a clan。
or gathering together on Saturdays,。
we can see each other's lies.。
We can gently correct each other's sin,。
confess our sin to one another。
and encourage each other to follow God.。
If people don't see me and don't know me,。
how can they say to me, how could they know me and say,。
"Hey man, I've noticed that this thing。
"has been consuming your attention.。
"You're always talking about it.。
"Is this really what's the most important thing at stake?"。
So if you're making a habit of only watching online。
or slipping in late on Saturday and leaving early,。
ask who is watching over you?。
Who's got your back to gently correct you from sin?。
It's easy to live life on our own。
if we're chasing the cares of the world.。
That's easy, I can do that on my own.。
But if our hearts are set on God,。
if we're serious about pursuing holiness,。
now that's tough.。
That is hard to do alone.。
Why would you want that?。
Why would you want to do it on your own?。
You wouldn't.。
We need the church in order to guard us,。
to encourage one another,。
exhort one another to follow the living God,。
to guard against covetousness.。
Secondly, we need to replace our love of money。
with the love of God, with a greater love.。
It's great to recognize that money won't satisfy us,。
but if we don't replace that craving with a love for God,。
we'll just end up craving something else.。
If it's not that apartment, maybe it's that new sports car.。
If it's not that job, maybe it's your girlfriend.。
The way to fight covetousness。
is to be filled with joy in God,。
and then there'll be no room to worship other things.。
That's why it's written in Hebrews,。
"Keep your life free from the love of money。
"and be content with what you have.。
"For He has said, 'I will never leave you or forsake you.'。
"So we can confidently say, 'The Lord is my helper.。
"'I will not fear.。
"'What can man do to me?'"。
We need to fill our hearts with the promises of God.。
He says, "I will never leave you or forsake you."。
God is abundantly enough for us,。
and when His promises ring in our ears, in our hearts,。
then we can confidently say, "The Lord is my helper.。
"I will not fear.。
"What can man do to me?"。
When God is the greatest cry of our hearts,。
then the love of money fades away, it decreases.。
And lastly, once our hearts are filled with God,。
then go, use your money as you wish.。
Give as you have decided in your hearts,。
not reluctantly or under compulsion,。
because God loves a cheerful giver.。
Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.。
And if we love God, then we'll be rich toward God.。
And that heart, that heart is only possible through Christ.。
So church, let us not be foolish.。
Let's not be foolish like the man who went to Jesus,。
asked for his brother's inheritance,。
like the rich man in the parable.。
Let's be wise and make Christ our greatest treasure.。
Let's pray.。
For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father,。
from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named,。
that according to the riches of His glory,。
He may grant you to be strengthened with power。
through His Spirit in your inner being,。
so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith,。
that you, being rooted and grounded in love,。
will have the strength to comprehend with all the saints,。
what is the breadth and length and height and depth,。
and to know the love of God that surpasses knowledge.。
Lord, we pray, open our eyes。
that we may behold the beauty of your Son.。
We pray that we'd be struck by your majesty,。
that we'd be so struck by your glory。
that we could do nothing else。
but fall on our knees and worship you.。
We ask that you would turn our eyes upon your Son,。
so that the things that were so big and important to us once。
would pale in comparison to knowing you.。
And we ask that you'd help us do this practically,。
day by day, as we go back to the rhythms of our daily lives,。
that your Spirit would remind us constantly。
of your surpassing worth.。
Help us to be a church that loves one another,。
who knows one another,。
and is constantly pointing one another back to you.。
And to Him who's able to do far more abundantly。
than all that we ask or think,。
according to the power at work within us,。
to Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus,。
forever and ever. Amen.。
