Just reminded even just now, just of the power of being as a family, just being together,。
even these last few weeks and last few months have not been easy.。
But I'm just so proud of the family we have at KFCI and even these last few weeks we've。
had the trivia night, we've had a farewell night for Josh and Mel, we got to witness。
Paul and Mel's, different Mel by the way, wedding and all of it on Zoom.。
It's not easy and I'm just so glad that we still get to see each other's faces, so glad。
to see everyone is still alive and well.。
And the Apostle Paul says, "How I yearn to be with you all, how I yearn for you all with。
the affection of Christ Jesus."。
I'm feeling that right now as we're heading into April, we're in April now and we've been。
at this for so long.。
So I just wanted to just applaud all of you.。
During our pre-service prayer, Mel mentioned that it doesn't come easy.。
This Zoom thing doesn't come easy.。
And another sister said, "Worship is still the top priority."。
So let's sit down and let's just really let the Word of God, let the Spirit of God really。
minister to us even over Zoom, even when it's hard.。
So I wanted to encourage you, you may find it hard, it's not as engaging as in real life,。
but I'm just really glad that we're making the effort.。
I wanted to ask one more thing of you today as I was preparing this message, I felt quite。
convicted not to do any slides.。
Again, I'm not entirely sure why, but I just felt as though actually this, as I open up。
this Word, my prayer is that one, you'll be able to as well.。
So maybe at this moment, if you are used to using a paper Bible, I encourage you to go。
and grab it.。
If you need a notepad to take notes or whatever it may be, or if you just phone, turn on airplane。
mode, focus mode, whatever it might be, I just pray that as I share from the Word of。
God, that this will then seep into your hearts and really open your eyes.。
Open your eyes to something new that God is wanting to reveal to you today.。
Is that okay?。
So do pay attention, hold on tight.。
It's a very simple message.。
You'll be encouraged to know that.。
There's only three points.。
And as Bonnie read so well for us, it's from John chapter 14, and there's this famous,。
famous declaration that he makes, "I am the way and the truth and the life."。
Can I just quickly pray before we continue from here?。
Join me.。
Jesus, we are just so grateful.。
We are just so grateful that we get to meet like this.。
And your Word says, "Don't neglect to meet each other.。
Stow each other up in love and good works, encouraging each other as the day draws near."。
And so here we are on Zoom.。
It's not quite the upper room, but we are just thankful for this.。
And right now we calm our hearts and we turn our eyes to you, the author and perfecter。
of our faith.。
We ask you to just show us more.。
What did you mean when you say you were the way, the truth, and the life?。
And how can we take that truth into our minds and have it drop into our hearts and then。
into our hands so we can live it out in this day and age?。
So be with us now.。
In your name we pray.。
Amen.。
So, one of the most famous and audacious claims that he makes, 14 verse 6, Jesus said, "I。
am the way, the truth, and the life."。
And the focus isn't even just on those three words, way, truth, and life.。
It's that he is the way, he is the truth, and he is the life.。
He is the only way, only truth, and only life.。
So this is a famous declaration of himself, but this is probably one of the most audacious。
ones, where he's coming out and saying, "Hey, I am the only way."。
Some people who say, "Why is Christianity so snobbish?。
Why is it so arrogant, claiming that this is the only way?。
Don't we all, don't all roads lead to heaven?"。
And what we see here is, and yes, in some ways we can say Christianity, what Jesus is。
declaring here is exclusive.。
He is saying he's the only way.。
That is probably, some have described it as an inclusive exclusivity, that whilst it is。
the only way, all are welcome.。
And Jesus had this way of speaking in such a way.。
This is why his disciples found it so hard to understand him.。
And even in this context, they struggled a little bit.。
And it's a really funny question that we see Thomas ask that triggers off this declaration.。
He's got all the humility, but zero modesty.。
And that's Jesus.。
And in these, "I am" declarations, there is no hint of modesty.。
He is being truthful about who he is, yet still being completely humble.。
What kind of Lord do we serve that is like that?。
Isn't it incredible?。
And so we have here, see, I wanted to show you a little bit of the context.。
So in John 14, let's rewind a little bit to John 13.。
This is the last supper.。
Now, of course, Jesus knew this was the last supper, but his disciples did not.。
This was just another supper for them.。
And so they're hanging out and they're eating, and then suddenly Jesus throws them a curveball。
and he gets off his seat, takes off his robe, and then wraps it around his waist and then。
starts to wash their feet.。
Peter is outraged.。
"No, you can't do this, Lord.。
What are you doing?。
You created heavens and the earth.。
You will not be washing my feet."。
So there's that whole little scene there.。
And then Jesus, suddenly after teaching them that in chapter 13, verse 21, suddenly it。
says he was troubled in his spirit.。
And so then he starts to reveal that actually now is time for something else.。
Not only am I going to wash your feet, something else is going to happen in the next few hours.。
Someone is going to betray me.。
And that's the second part of chapter 13.。
And then once Judas leaves, and then Jesus says, "Look, I've got one more thing to say。
to you guys.。
I've got one more speech.。
Hang with me.。
Listen to me as I share this with you, share my heart with you.。
Love one another."。
Verse 34, "Love one another."。
And that is how the world will know that you're my disciples.。
And then Peter goes, "Wait, wait, wait, you're saying, tell us to love each other because。
you're going somewhere that we can't go.。
Where is this?。
We want to go with you."。
And then this is where it kicks off in chapter 14.。
And he says, "Let not your hearts be troubled."。
14, verse 1, "Let not your hearts be troubled.。
Believe in God.。
Believe also in me.。
In my Father's house are many rooms.。
If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you?。
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself.。
That's where I am.。
You may be also.。
And you know the way to where I am going."。
Just pause there for a second.。
Imagine you're a disciple.。
You didn't know this is the Last Supper.。
You did not know the significance of this day.。
Jesus washes your feet, freaks you out.。
Then he says someone's going to betray him.。
One of you are going to betray him.。
Then he says, "Just love one another."。
He's getting all dramatic about everything.。
Actually, once you understand all of that, you will then appreciate what Thomas says。
in light of that in chapter 14.。
And he says this, verse 5, "Thomas said to him, 'Lord, we do not know where you are going.。
How can we know the way?'"。
He says, "We do not know."。
Can you imagine?。
You know, Thomas gets a really bad rep.。
When we say the word Thomas from the Bible, what do we think?。
What's the second word we think?。
Can you imagine making two simple mistakes in the Bible and forever for the rest of history,。
you are labeled by the mistake that you made, that you are now doubting Thomas for now and。
forevermore?。
But actually, he asks a very sensible question.。
Jesus is throwing curveball after curveball here.。
And you can just imagine the disciples looking at each other and going, "What is this guy。
talking about?。
I know he's confusing, but tonight he's had too much to drink.。
He's gone over."。
And so you can imagine him just putting his hand up and saying, "Lord, we actually don't。
know what you're talking about.。
Where are you going?。
We don't know the way.。
We don't have a clue what you're talking about.。
Explain to us."。
And then in verse 6, he says, "I am the way, the truth, and the life."。
But you see, the thing is, Thomas's question there, how do we know the way?。
How can we know the way?。
What is this way?。
Isn't that a question that we're all actually asking?。
We know that Jesus here is talking about eternity.。
He's talking about his father's house that has many rooms.。
He's talking about eternal life.。
Isn't that the question that we're actually all asking?。
What Thomas just asked, how can we know the way?。
Essentially, he's saying, how can we get eternal life?。
What are the directions to heaven?。
If we just pause there for a second, isn't that what our hearts yearn for over and over。
again?。
That we're searching for something that is in another world.。
2 Corinthians 5 talks about this earthly tent and this groaning that we have being here。
because things are just not right.。
And we just know in our hearts that we are not home.。
And maybe these few months in Hong Kong has brought that all to the surface for us.。
And recently, we just heard all the people who are struggling with suicidal thoughts,。
trying to take their own lives.。
All of this is a search for this home that we're looking for.。
Every one of us is asking that same question.。
How can we know the way?。
Ecclesiastes says this in chapter 3, that the Lord planted eternity into our hearts。
like a compass.。
Our hearts are pointing there, but being in this earth simply doesn't satisfy us completely.。
C.S. Lewis was the one that said, "If I find in myself desires which nothing in this world。
can satisfy, the only logical explanation is that I was made for another world."。
If I find in myself desires which nothing in this world can satisfy, the only logical。
explanation is that I was made for another world.。
And so Jesus answers that state of the heart.。
He answers that question.。
And he answers that question for us, for you, for me.。
When we're asking, why are we not home yet?。
Why does this not feel right yet?。
How do we get there?。
This way that you're talking about, Jesus, how do we get there?。
And he says, "I am the way, the truth, and the life."。
He gives an emphatic answer saying that he is the way.。
And we find out that the way isn't a direction.。
It's not northeast.。
It's not a geographical term, but it's a description of the revelatory work of Jesus.。
When Jesus says, "You will know the way," what he's actually saying is, "You will know。
me.。
You will know me."。
That quest for knowing the way is actually knowing Jesus himself.。
They're synonymous.。
They're the same thing.。
Knowing Jesus equals knowing God, equals eternal life, equals to ending up at home.。
That quest for home means that we can't be satisfied by anything here on earth.。
John 17, later, after he finishes this spiel, and it's a long speech, and it won't be as。
long as, well, it's much longer than what we're going to be doing tonight, from 14 to。
16, he's just sharing everything, the final words.。
And then in 17, John 17, he prays, right?。
This is Jesus' prayer.。
And he says this, 17 verse 3, and he says this, "And this is eternal life, that they。
know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent."。
Hidden here in scripture, in plain sight, he describes what eternal life is in his prayer.。
And this is eternal life, that you would know you, the only true God.。
So how do you know the way?。
You need to know the person.。
So the question really I have for all of us tonight is, how well do you know Jesus?。
I'm not going to do a quiz.。
I'm not going to do a Bible quiz to see how much of scripture you know about who he is.。
But my question is, do you know him personally?。
Those of you who know us, you know that I'm a big fan of basketball, just like Pastor。
Johnny is.。
We both love playing basketball.。
I beat him regularly.。
He's been saved by the restrictions currently.。
And I grew up being a fan of Michael Jordan.。
And I can tell you, I know Michael Jordan.。
I know when his birth date is.。
I know how many seasons he played in the NBA.。
I know each and every shoe that Nike released on behalf of him, and all the different colorways。
when they were released, how many points he scored that season, how many titles he won,。
how many scoring titles.。
I know everything about Michael Jordan.。
Well, I don't know everything, everything, but you get the point.。
But I don't know him personally.。
So I can tell you everything about him.。
But I confess, I don't actually know him.。
This is a confession that I'm making online.。
I've had dreams about Michael Jordan and meeting him.。
But I have never met him in person.。
I don't know him.。
The question here is, you may know Jesus.。
You may have grown up in Sunday school.。
You may have heard the stories.。
He turned water into wine.。
He was born in a manger in Bethlehem.。
My question to you is, do you know him personally?。
Because he says, when you know me personally, you will have eternal life.。
So I don't know whether you can answer that question.。
Do you know Jesus personally?。
And what I want today in my sharing is just to help you,。
help you get to a point, even understanding these three words.。
He's the way, the truth, and the life.。
If we can get our heads around, get our hearts around what those three words mean,。
maybe it starts us on a journey in knowing Jesus personally.。
Are you with me?。
Is that good?。
So that's my prayer today, that we would understand these three words.。
So let's start with the first one.。
Jesus says, I am the way.。
It's the central term, as it was the subject of the question.。
Thomas is asking, how do we know the way?。
So Jesus says, I am the way, the only way.。
Matthew 7 says this, the road to heaven is a narrow road.。
It's a small gate.。
Yet, of course, it's an inclusive kind of exclusivity.。
So even though it is a narrow road, even though you have to go through a small gate,。
once you get there, he says, my father's house has many, many rooms.。
It may be the only way, but everyone is invited.。
In Revelation, at the end, chapter 7, it says, there's a great multitude that no one can number。
who will be in his presence.。
And we know now that it's not a direction.。
It's not a route.。
When he says, I am the way, it's not a route.。
What is it then?。
It's an expression of one's unity with God.。
It's knowing him personally.。
Now, here's where I think we fall short.。
This is where I definitely fall short.。
When I hear Jesus is the way, often in my life, I have treated him as Google Maps.。
I have treated him as a signpost.。
I treat him as telling me, Jesus, show me the way.。
How do I do that?。
Jesus, show me what courses to study at university.。
Jesus, show me which person should be, will be my wife.。
Show me which job to take.。
Show me which country to move to.。
Show me what to do here.。
Show me where to go here.。
Show me all these things.。
I treat Jesus as basically a signpost.。
I'm asking him to point me in the direction.。
And now, if someone came and analyzed your prayers, who would they think Jesus is?。
See, that's a good way to kind of self-reflect who we think Jesus is.。
If someone came and listened to your prayers and listened to how you speak to Jesus,。
what would they get out of it?。
Often, our prayers are, Jesus, can you show us what to do here?。
Can you show us where to go here?。
Can you do this for us?。
Can you do that for us?。
If someone analyzed our prayers, often it would be, they'd get the impression that,。
wow, Jesus is this very powerful security guard.。
He's like, he's got your back.。
Wherever you go, you just tell him to go with you and he'll protect you.。
He's like a bouncer.。
Or he's a doctor.。
Oh, he'll heal this, he'll heal that.。
Or maybe he's just a satellite navigation system.。
He'll tell you where to go.。
Now, of course, he does do those things.。
He does.。
But it isn't just to point us to a job or to a relationship or to a place to live or to what to do or where to go.。
We've seen the Holy Spirit guide.。
In Acts 16, we see him guiding Paul.。
But then he's not just a signpost, is he?。
He's not a signpost to the end.。
He is the end.。
And I often find this to be true, is Jesus often doesn't really mind,。
or maybe he doesn't even care about some of the small decisions that I make.。
When I say, oh, Jesus, should I go here or should I go here?。
Should I go to Greece for holiday or shall I go to Malta?。
Often, now, disclaimer here, Jesus really does care about all the small things in our lives.。
The question for us is, do we place those small things above him?。
You see, the way we should ask isn't, Jesus, what do you want me to do?。
It's actually, which of these ways will get me closer to you?。
Which of these ways will help me know you more?。
Recently, I was talking to a businessman who was considering a role in a big bank, and another fellow pastor of mine, he was like, you know what?。
Whether you choose this job or not, to God, sometimes I think it's like the difference between choosing a tasty fan or one that mean for lunch.。
Like, actually, even though you think this big job is a huge thing, but to God's almighty.。
The size of it is basically the same as it could potentially be the same as just what lunch you choose to eat, because God just wants you and he will use you in whatever way you want.。
But I think sometimes we consume ourselves with ourselves, and we ask God to fit in to those just plans.。
We ask God to point us. We treat him as a signpost when he's not.。
He is the way. He is the end.。
He is everything.。
Psalm 27, one of my favorites is, if there's one thing we should pray for, if there's one thing that I ask, David says, is that I would dwell in the house of God all the days of my life.。
That's it.。
Jesus tells us himself, Matthew 6, 33, he says, seek me first.。
Seek me first and everything else will be fine.。
So the goal above all goals is to know God.。
Every decision that we make should be with that goal in mind.。
So would we, brothers and sisters, not allow, not just have God be part of our decision making process.。
Can we make him the goal of all our decisions?。
Now that we must pursue him first because he is the goal.。
We have to understand this.。
We have to understand this.。
So I'll just pause there for a second.。
What decisions are you asking Jesus right now?。
We should all be asking Jesus something, and I get that.。
And it's a good thing to do.。
But my question to you is, as you're asking him for directions, what's your main purpose at the end?。
What's your main objective?。
Is this just so that you can get to know the right route so it's the smoother one that will allow you to be more prosperous?。
That it will be an easier one to get you more success?。
Or is it, I'm asking you for directions, Lord, because I want you to be there at the end.。
Now, it's nuanced.。
It's such a it's just a slight difference in the posture of the heart.。
And I encourage you right now, as you're asking Jesus, which way should I go?。
How should I know the way? Make knowing him the end.。
Make knowing him the final objective.。
That is the goal. Because why? Because he is the way.。
So this statement here, I am the way, the truth and the life, likely means this.。
I am the way to the father in that I am the truth and the life.。
The next two actually are used to basically explain and qualify that first one.。
I am the way to the father in that I am the truth and the life.。
So the way is a who? The way is a who? It's Jesus.。
So the second one, then the truth, if the way is a who, the truth, I guess, is a what?。
It's referring to what's actually real.。
What's truth? Another version of Bible would say he is the way and the reality and the life.。
The word truth that is replaced with reality.。
And he's saying that I am the only thing that's real.。
You see, when you understand that Jesus is the way, then you recognize Jesus as the truth, that he was the word made flesh.。
In the beginning of John, it says in the beginning was the beginning is the word and the word became flesh.。
Right. So he's saying and why is it the flesh?。
Because he's making the truth of God available to all.。
It's very hard if you can imagine just for a second to try to imagine from God's perspective, which is far, far above us.。
He's trying to help us understand him.。
But it's impossible. Every day I'm trying to make our toy poodle Walter understand what I'm saying to him.。
To tell him that he needs to go to the toilet on this tiny little piece of green patch here and nowhere else.。
And he doesn't seem to get it.。
I try to explain to him that I can't stay in the house all day because I have to work, because I have to earn money so I can buy food for him to eat.。
He doesn't get it. He doesn't understand who I am or what I do, other than the one that should just be here and feed you him.。
So therefore, is how much more difference is that between us and God?。
We on our own will really struggle to understand who God is.。
So what did God do in his grace?。
He gave us Jesus. See Jesus as a visual aid for learning who God is.。
God said, you have no chance at understanding me, but I'll tell you what I'll do.。
I'll become one of you. I'll become one of you.。
And therefore, and it will be a visual aid and through Jesus, I will reveal myself to you.。
So he's revealing the truth of God in himself.。
So knowing Jesus is a relationship with him.。
And now, once you have that, you'll be liberated with this truth of God.。
You finally know what's real.。
Do we get that? So in Jesus, why is he the truth?。
He is the truth because through him you meet the truth of God.。
You finally get to see who God is.。
And you can finally get to know his heart and you finally get to see what he has to say about life.。
Don't we all want that? When you're struggling to understand what this invention is, what do you do?。
You go to the inventor, you go to the creator to explain it to you.。
So for us, it's the same. If we want to know the truth about God, then we go through Jesus because he is the visual aid.。
He is the one that was the word that became flesh, the truth that became flesh.。
And God's word is absolute, final and reality.。
It is the ultimate reality. Above what?。
Above any opinions and feelings and trends and hashtags that are happening right now.。
I don't know about you, sometimes I don't know what's real anymore.。
And there's this new thing, the metaverse, that we're all going to be exploring at some point.。
And I'm sure that we'll all end up there in some shape or form.。
And I'll create my own little character that will have hair and I'll be able to live out my dreams that way.。
But the truth is. We need to hold on to truth when we head into this day and age where we simply just don't know what's going on,。
we don't know what truth, like we can open any news outlet, whether it's SCMP or BBC or CNN or some of you may like Fox News,。
but whatever it may be. We can't know whether those things are true or not, right?。
Like who knows whether they're true or not? When we see a picture, we don't really know what's happening.。
Do we even know what's real anymore? We see what Jesus is saying here.。
It doesn't matter because I am the only truth. What you think is true isn't even true.。
I am the only one who is true. You are to hold on to me and what I say about this life, because that is the only reality.。
That is the only thing that is real. That is the only thing that will last and be able to pass through the test of time.。
Actually, I recently was convicted by this. I don't know about you.。
Every morning I wake up, I load up my phone and I have a look at SCMP.。
I see how many cases there are. I see what's happening in Europe. I see what's happening in America.。
You know, one day I felt the Lord really reminded me and convict me.。
And it was like, James, you wake up, you open your eyes and the first thing you do is look at those things.。
How confident are you that those things are the truth?。
Why aren't you spending your first, you know, Bible talks about first fruits.。
Why aren't you spending your first minutes of attention on this? The real truth.。
Why do you let those things in first? Do you abide in my word first?。
Or are you simply holding on to everything that everyone else says about this world?。
Because I am the truth. I am the only truth. So my encouragement to us is if this is the only thing that's real,。
do we treat it that way or do we treat it as an optional extra? Do we treat him as an optional extra?。
Do we treat the Bible as real as we do with the SCMP or the National Geographic?。
My prayer is that we would let the truth and reality of Jesus revealed to us in this word,。
in the person of Jesus, and allow that truth to permeate into our souls and impact the way we live.。
I said I shared last time in my message, I'm convinced that as those of us who are following Jesus, we must look different.。
We must act different. We must speak different. We must think different to those around us.。
How do we do that? Hold on to truth. How well do you know truth?。
As a pastor, I can confess to you, it's only been these last few years with everything that's happening that I've really started to learn what it means to cling on to truth.。
I've been sharing with some people as well. I started for the very first time to memorize long passages of scripture.。
And this last two months, I got through the whole of Philippians.。
So it's all in my head. The whole book of Philippians is in my head.。
And I try and recite it regularly. And I'll tell you what it did to me.。
It blew my mind in terms of how I was perceiving the world.。
I realized that I was treating the Bible as just helpful bite sized aids for whenever I needed it.。
But if I overlooked over this whole thing, like allowed this truth to seep into my soul, suddenly I felt this peace and this faith.。
It's like, man, this world is so much bigger than even what's happening in these few months.。
We are called to so much bigger than just trying to sort ourselves out.。
Allow the truth of Jesus to permeate into your life.。
Ask yourself, how well do you know his truth? How seriously do you take it?。
So the way is a who? The truth is a what? It's what's real.。
What is truly real? And we know this is what's real.。
And finally, the life. I guess you could say the life is a how.。
How we even are able to live. The same that Jesus says is he's like, I am the way, the truth and the life.。
Later in John 11, he says, I am the resurrection and the life.。
John 1 says in him was life and the light of men.。
See, Paul talks about him saying in Acts 17, he says in him, we live and move and have our being.。
He's saying, I am the life that I am the life of God himself.。
I am the access point to God's promise of life.。
I promised you that in me, through me, you would have life and life to the full.。
I am the access point to God's promise of life.。
So this statement, I am the way, the truth and the life could be read.。
I am the real and living way. I am the only real and living way.。
Do we recognize that? That actually what we have right now is because of Jesus,。
because of Jesus living through us, allowing us to have breath.。
Sometimes we think, oh, you know what, I've got to give so much of my life to Jesus.。
I've got to give my Saturday evening and I've got to sit on Zoom.。
I've got to plan on a weekday evening and then I've got this and I've got outreach.。
I'm going to give so many things to Jesus in my life.。
BC, once we recognize that our lives are only ours to give because he gave them to us first,。
that suddenly changes the way we think about it.。
That it were not for him giving us life, we wouldn't even have this life.。
And this is why when we go through suffering, when our health fails us,。
suddenly we realize, oh man, this wasn't mine to begin with.。
I have zero control over my life.。
Recognizing that our lives are in his hands.。
In fact, he is the one who drives it.。
And it makes our sacrifice seem less big, right?。
Once we recognize that we only have life because of him,。
that all things live through him, from him and for him.。
Makes me think of, it's really cute.。
So we give our kids pocket money and we give them a big amount every week.。
We give them $20 every week.。
Sometimes it's really cute.。
Once I've given it to them and they put it into their little chest, they were like,。
oh, I'll give you some.。
I'll give you some of my money.。
And it's really cute.。
And especially Alicia, sometimes she can't quite tell the difference.。
Sometimes she'll give me a brown note.。
Other times she'll give me a blue note and a red note.。
I really like it when she gives me the brown ones.。
And I was like, that's so cute.。
And of course, as a parent, I'm just filled with joy and warmth.。
Because it's special, especially cute, because it's my money anyway,。
because I gave it to them.。
But the heart, the joy that I receive from seeing how generous they can be,。
I'm like, ah, you get it.。
And often then I give it back to them, unless there's a brown one, then I keep it.。
Isn't that the same with God?。
He wants us to give him our whole lives, not because he's。
some terrible controlling dictator, because he knows that in giving,。
that's when you get the blessing.。
That's when you are truly released to be free.。
And it's just cute and lovely and warm for him。
to see us willing to surrender to him, because our lives are in his hands anyway.。
At least compared to the sacrifice that he gave us, what we're doing。
is just so small.。
But if we are willing to let go, know that he lives in us,。
and that only because of that do we live.。
Suddenly we're released and we get to live life to the full.。
He's not just the reason why we live.。
He's not the reason that we live for.。
He is the definition of living.。
In him was life.。
He is the only life.。
He's the driving force.。
So when people come to Jesus, they come to the one in whom。
the life of the Father is found.。
Jesus is the way to the Father.。
He's the only real and living way.。
So that's it.。
He is the way, the truth, and the life.。
My question to all of you is, how much do you want this eternal life?。
Jesus says his Father's house has many rooms.。
It's a narrow path.。
I'm not going to lie, it's a narrow path.。
It's exclusive, but it's an inclusive kind of exclusivity.。
It's those who want it, get it.。
How much do you want this eternal life?。
As we sit here on a dreary April's Day, having gone through three months。
or three years, whatever you want to measure,。
of just times of being out of our control,。
the question really is, how much do you want this eternal life?。
How much do you want to go the way Jesus is going?。
How much do you want to know him?。
I think there's a couple of levels to this.。
And the first one is this.。
Do we even care enough to ask the same question that Thomas did?。
Some of you and some of us sometimes are like, you know what?。
It's also hard to understand.。
It's all too much commitment.。
If I take this too seriously, it's going to just turn my life upside down.。
I'm not even going to ask the question.。
And I pray for you to have the courage that Thomas did。
and to raise your hand awkwardly during the dinner and go,。
"Lord, we don't know what you're talking about, but it sounds good.。
How do we get there?。
What is this way?。
We don't understand."。
And so that's you.。
If this is, then I pray that you would want this,。
that you would want to know the way, that you would want to know Jesus。
beyond just sitting on a Zoom, beyond just sitting in a church service,。
that you would want to know him personally.。
Do you have a desire to go where Jesus is going, to know the Father?。
Does your physical posture, does the posture of your heart。
indicate that you desire this?。
That's the first question.。
That's a very important question.。
Search your heart.。
Is this something that you really want?。
If yes, then great.。
If not, then why not?。
What are you chasing?。
Which way are you going?。
What have you set in your Google Maps?。
Where are you heading?。
Is it going to lead you to the fulfillment that you think it's going to give you?。
I can tell you with honesty and humility, I don't think it will,。
because you weren't made for this world.。
You were made for another.。
So nothing in this world will satisfy that.。
Anyway, that's level one.。
May we have the desire to know him.。
One of my favorite songs I was talking to a friend about the other day。
by Shane and Shane called Yearn.。
It's like, "Lord, I want to yearn for you."。
Like, I don't even have that yet.。
I just want to yearn for you.。
What does that even look like?。
Ask that question.。
Ask just Jesus, just like Thomas did.。
"Lord, how do I know you?。
How do I know the way?"。
For those of us who have been around long enough,。
who have that heart to want to know him,。
the second question is this.。
Are we prepared for what that might mean when we know the truth?。
Can we handle the truth?。
As he declares that he goes to prepare a way for us,。
do we appreciate that road is one that we will have to take too?。
That way, that road that he took to get to his father's house,。
the one that we want to take as well,。
involves sacrifice and death.。
In order to achieve that victory in life,。
are we willing to follow him?。
You see, there's one thing to say we believe you.。
There's another thing to say we will follow you.。
Right?。
So level two is, am I willing to follow you?。
Jesus is the way to the father,。
primarily because his death made access to the father's presence。
to be possible for us,。
because we are so far away from him,。
way more than a human and dog.。
From human to God is just an indescribable jump.。
But because of Jesus, because of his death,。
there's now a way that has been made.。
He is the truth because he brought the truth of God。
into this world.。
And he alone possesses the life of God。
because he defeated death.。
And in him, we obtain that life.。
So my question for us is, do we care enough?。
Do we want enough to be able to handle what it takes。
to not just believe him, but to follow him?。
John 3, 16, the most famous passage,。
"For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son."。
His one and only son,。
because that son was the one and only way。
to this eternal life, to know him.。
And we often ask, "Why?。
Why does it have to be so hard?。
Jesus, why does it have to be so hard?"。
The other religions seem to do it easy.。
Just be a good person and just rack up your points and credits。
and eventually you get to the gate。
and it'll be enough and you get in.。
Because Jesus recognized how far short we fall,。
that we would never get there on our own.。
Acts 4, verse 12 says this,。
"And there is salvation in no one else, nothing else.。
For there is no other name under heaven given among men。
by which we must be saved.。
It is only Jesus."。
I want to finish by just emphasizing how radical that was。
for the people who believed that at the beginning.。
The Jews could not have believed this.。
See, for them, they can't worship any creative thing,。
physical or human.。
All the time, they're just worshiping this Yahweh, this I Am.。
They would have been the last people on earth。
to carry this message, that this human, this man,。
this Jesus was God himself.。
And yet that was exactly what was true.。
And so the question for us is,。
let's not concern ourselves with the questions,。
"Oh, Jesus being the only way sounds too exclusive。
and too arrogant."。
See, because we recognize that we are broken tools。
that are incapable of fixing ourselves.。
We could not have done it ourselves.。
Einstein said that the consciousness that created a problem。
can't be the one that solves it.。
We are the problem.。
So how can we solve ourselves?。
Whatever we do won't be enough.。
But Jesus, as the divine human, the Son of God,。
the sinless one, He came and He died, and then He conquered.。
He's the only name because He took the only way.。
Jesus himself asked God,。
"God, this is too hard.。
Like, if there's any other way。
for you to remove this cup of suffering, please do it."。
Even He asked.。
Yet He knew that this was the only way.。
There would have been no point in the cross。
if you could do something else about it.。
You said it yourself.。
There was no other way.。
So therefore there is no other name.。
He's the only way, the only truth,。
and the only one who gives life.。
Do you want Him?。
Do you want to know Him?。
I'm telling you, you should,。
because in Him, you will find life and life to the full.。
Let's pray and just surrender anything that's in our hearts,。
any directions that we're heading in,。
and give them back up to the only one who is the way.。
The only way to the Father is through Jesus.。
Let's pray.。
So Lord, I just, I thank you。
that you saw that we were heart of heart,。
that we simply didn't have the capacity to know you.。
And so you came in human form.。
You were the word that became flesh,。
that dwelt among men.。
And through you, we get to see the way,。
that the way is you.。
You are the goal of everything,。
and we seek you first,。
and that you are the only thing that's real.。
As this world spins around us,。
we don't even know what's true anymore,。
and fake news is, we hear more fake news than the truth.。
But you remind us Lord, that you are the truth,。
and you are the only reality that we should rely on.。
When we give you praise,。
we give you praise that in you we have life,。
and life to the full,。
because you are the only way to that life.。
So Lord, we put our hands up just like Thomas did.。
We don't know the way ourselves.。
We don't know you enough, but we want to.。
Show us Lord.。
Show us how to yearn for you.。
Show us how to love you as a deer pans for water.。
May we yearn for you in the same way.。
For you are the only way,。
the only thing that's true,。
and the only thing that gives life.。
We thank you Lord.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
