We are almost finished our current series on equipping the saints and serving the community.。
And we started off together, literally together.。
The first sermon was with Pastor Seth and talking about unity.。
And did a great job talking about why we need to be as a body of Christ, working together.。
And then we had a sermon on being prepared.。
How Jesus himself was prepared in the desert through the three temptations.。
Last week Pastor John talked to us about being equipped.。
He talked about ways that we are equipped.。
The first is the how, then it's the why and it's the where.。
Holy Spirit equips each one of us in the body of Christ with different gifts.。
He equips us so that we can build up the body of Christ together so that the kingdom of。
heaven will be built up.。
So together, prepared, equipped.。
And finally today we are talking about witness.。
Has anybody been to Cleveland before?。
Now I've heard weird things about Cleveland.。
It's not very pretty, but there's one really quite famous thing in the city of Cleveland.。
When he was playing there, there was this really huge poster there or banner, whatever。
you call it.。
Let's show it there.。
It's LeBron James, we are all witnesses.。
And Nike came up with this commercial, we are all witnesses.。
What are we witnessing?。
LeBron James.。
And it's been 20 years that he's been playing.。
Man, these old guys are playing so well, right?。
Tom Brady just retired.。
You know, Nadal is still going, sort of.。
Djokovic is still going.。
All these guys, so old.。
Well, not old, a little bit younger than some of us, mature, but still going.。
Old in terms of athletic age, but still going.。
LeBron James, 38 years old, still going, still MVP, still getting the most votes in the NBA.。
Amazing how he has kept his body just in prime condition.。
We are witnessing these great athletes.。
And Jesus also tells us that we need to witness.。
What is a witness?。
Well, according to some internet definitions, a witness is a person who sees an event happening,。
especially a crime or an accident, and he testifies to it, right?。
So in court, somebody is a witness, comes up and testify what he or she has heard or。
seen.。
He is a witness.。
And we see continuously in the scriptures that Jesus tells us that we need to be witnesses.。
And so we see this, firstly, when Jesus says the Great Commission.。
Let's read together, all authority, one, two, three.。
All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me.。
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father,。
of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I've commanded you.。
And surely I'm with you always to the very end of the age.。
Jesus says, all authority has been given to me, so go and make disciples.。
Go and share the message that I have taught you.。
Go and make disciples how I have made a disciple out of you.。
And when Jesus died and rose again, before he was going to be raised, he told us in Acts,。
let's read together in the book of Acts, one, two, three, that you will receive power when。
the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea,。
in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.。
Jesus is saying the Holy Spirit will come.。
And when that happens, you will be my witnesses.。
You will tell of the things you have learned, seen, experienced, and you will be my witnesses,。
not only in your city, Jerusalem, but in your neighboring province in Judea, to foreign。
sort of regions in Samaria, and then to the ends of the earth, to the ends of the earth.。
And in 1 Peter, it also says this, but in your hearts, revere Christ as Lord.。
Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope。
that you have.。
But do this with gentleness and respect.。
Be prepared in season, out of season, to share what the Lord has done for you.。
And we're going to learn about witness today, and the best person that we can learn from。
is Jesus himself.。
And so we're going to see a quick video on this.。
Would you give me a drink?。
Did you hear me?。
That's bad, huh?。
What?。
You would you ask for a drink from me, a Samaritan, and a woman?。
I'm sorry.。
I should have said please.。
You know, it's not safe for you to be alone out here.。
Nor you.。
Why haven't you come with others?。
Why so late in the day?。
Don't women come to the wells in the cool of the morning?。
Yeah, well, none of them will be seen with me, so I have to come out now.。
In the heat, as you have so kindly reminded me.。
Why won't they be seen with you?。
Long story.。
I'd still like a drink of water, if you can spare it.。
You've seen what a parched throat will do.。
Aren't I unclean to you?。
Won't you be defiled by this vessel?。
Maybe some of my people say that about your women, but I don't.。
Yeah?。
And what do you say?。
I say if you knew who I am, you'd be asking me for a drink.。
Really?。
And I would give you living water.。
Would, except that you have nothing to draw water with, and this is a deep well.。
Besides, what do you need from me if you have your own supply of living water?。
Long story.。
Your water is better than Samaritan water.。
That's not what I said.。
Are you a better man than our ancestor Jacob, who dug this well?。
Your water is better than his?。
I know Jacob, and everyone who drinks this water will thirst again.。
But whoever drinks the water that I give him will never be thirsty again.。
Wouldn't that be nice?。
The water I give will become in a person a spring of water, welling up to eternal life.。
Really?。
Yes, really.。
Prove it.。
First, go and call your husband and come back.。
I will show you both.。
I don't have a husband.。
You are right.。
You've had five husbands.。
And the man you're living with now is not your husband.。
I see.。
You're a prophet.。
You're here to preach at me.。
No.。
Usually the one good thing about coming here alone is I can escape being condemned.。
I'm not here to condemn you.。
I've made mistakes.。
Too many.。
But it's men like you who have made it impossible for me to do anything about it.。
How?。
My ancestors worshipped on this mountain.。
But you Jews insist Jerusalem is the only place for true worship.。
They say that because the temple is there.。
Yeah.。
Exactly where we're not allowed.。
I'm here to break those barriers.。
And the time is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship。
the Father.。
So where am I supposed to go when I need God?。
I've never received anything from God, but I couldn't thank him even if I did.。
Anywhere.。
God is spirit.。
And the time is coming and is now here that it won't matter where you worship, but only。
that you do it in spirit and truth.。
Heart and mind.。
That, that is the kind of worshipper he's looking for.。
It won't matter where you're from or what you've done.。
That clip was taken from The Chosen.。
And anybody been watching The Chosen?。
It's a new sort of film or TV series about Jesus.。
And it sort of uses sort of the message, you know, translation sort of version to modernize。
what they could have had a conversation about.。
And so here we see Jesus and the Samaritan woman.。
And Jesus had so many difficulties in relating with this woman.。
Firstly, Jesus was a Jew.。
And we see in the video, why are you talking with me?。
You are a Jew.。
I'm a Samaritan woman.。
There were cultural barriers between Jews and Gentiles.。
We'll see in the map next slide that Samaria was in the middle, right?。
And Jesus is in Judea in the bottom part, and he's going to Galilee.。
And the Jews disliked the Samaritans so much that they would actually cross over to the。
Jordan River to not go through Samaria.。
And that's because Samaritans were considered half-breeds, unclean.。
You remember in the video, you want a drink of water from me?。
A Samaritan?。
Isn't our water not as good as your water?。
It's in it unclean.。
My vessel is unclean.。
The Samaritans were considered half-breeds.。
When the Assyrians came and overtook the Jews, they intermingled, interbred with some of。
the Jews.。
And those became the Samaritans.。
And so the Jews and the Samaritans had cultural differences, and that became a barrier for。
them to talk.。
And also, Jesus was a man, right?。
And so not just any man, he was a righteous man, considered a prophet.。
And she, as you see in the video, she was considered sort of an outcast.。
She went to the well at noon.。
Why did she go to the well at noon?。
To be alone.。
Possibly because she didn't want to be with anybody.。
Maybe she was the talk of the town because she had five husbands.。
She had five husbands.。
And there was also a religious difference.。
The Jews thought that they worshipped in the proper area, the right place.。
And where was that?。
Jerusalem.。
And you see in the next slide that the Samaritans worshipped on Mount Gerizim, right?。
That was where their ancestors worshipped in the Old Testament.。
As it says, that you will worship me when you leave on Mount Gerizim.。
And so there were differences, cultural differences, gender differences, social differences, religious。
differences.。
And yet Jesus chose to connect with this woman.。
And so we're going to learn five ways we can witness like Jesus.。
On a scale of one to 10, how easy was it for Jesus to connect with this woman?。
It was super hard, right?。
Sometimes there are super easy people, right, that are so willing to know more about God,。
right?。
And those people, you just share the gospel with them and they come to know Jesus.。
But this one, between Jesus and the Samaritan woman, it's one of the hardest because of。
all these barriers.。
And we're going to learn five ways to witness like Jesus.。
And first is choose, choose.。
Jesus chose especially to have a divine appointment with this woman.。
Jesus could have went around Samaria like most Jews, but he chose to meet this woman。
directly.。
And we also, in order for us to witness like Jesus, we need to choose to see the people。
around us.。
Choose to meet with the people around us.。
Choose to get to know the people around us, to see that they also need the Lord.。
We need to choose.。
In your sphere of relationships, right, you can have your family as the closest, you know,。
best friends.。
And then you have sort of your friends, right?。
Maybe not Facebook friends.。
Are they real friends?。
Okay, friends.。
And then Facebook friends.。
And then acquaintances, people you just say hi and bye to.。
And then after that, you know, coworkers, right?。
Or coworkers or acquaintances, something like that, or friends, they become friends as well.。
But in our sphere of relationships, do we choose to be intentional?。
Jesus is intentional with this woman.。
He wanted to meet with her personally.。
In our sphere of relationships, in the family, relatives, close friends, friends, acquaintances,。
coworkers, are we choosing to be intentional with our relationships?。
The second thing is to witness like Jesus, we need to connect with people.。
Connect.。
How did Jesus connect with this woman?。
Water.。
Can I have a drink?。
Right?。
And then he mentions it again.。
If you want water, if you know who is asking you for water, you would have asked me for。
water and I would have given you living water.。
Right?。
Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is that asks you for a drink,。
you would have asked him and he would have given you living water.。
The woman was drawing water.。
Jesus asked for water.。
The Samaritan was like, why are you asking me for water?。
Jesus is like, do you know who is asking you for water?。
This water theme comes up continually.。
And if we are to witness to our friends, family, relatives, coworkers, acquaintances, we need。
to connect with them.。
And so how do you connect with them?。
Maybe you go rock climbing together.。
Maybe you go playing tennis together.。
Maybe you...。
It's a sensitive topic in the church, you know.。
Play games, board games together.。
Play games together.。
Have dinner together.。
Play basketball together.。
Go watch some movies together.。
You need to connect with people.。
Jesus connected with this woman.。
We need to also connect with our friends and our family.。
And it's not that hard.。
You just need to find things that you commonly like.。
What do you like?。
Oh, I like to eat.。
Who likes to eat?。
Well then we can connect.。
Let's connect.。
Right?。
If you like specific foods, then you can go and connect together, eat together.。
And through that, you can build trust.。
So choose to be intentional.。
You need to connect through some sort of common interest or theme or something you like.。
And then the next thing we need to start doing is we need to care.。
What do we need to care for?。
What did Jesus care about?。
Jesus cared about her spiritual background.。
She pointed out specifically, "Oh, you worship.。
You Jews worship there.。
We worship here.。
We're not allowed in Jerusalem because we're considered unclean."。
And then Jesus responds again, right, and says that, "You will neither worship here。
or there, but one day you'll worship in spirit and in truth.。
And that time is now."。
As we connect with our friends, we can start to care more about them, care for them.。
Have you tried connecting with your friends and seeing what their spiritual background。
is?。
Whether they believe in God or not, whether they go to church or not.。
Maybe they've been to church in the past, but now how do they feel about church?。
Maybe they have a bad experience at church and you can care for them.。
How come you had a bad experience?。
How can I help you make...。
Find what you went through, spiritual background.。
And eventually we need to care about their spiritual need.。
Every one of us has a need.。
What was the woman's need?。
So she was dancing around, playing with water.。
She was dancing around this religion issue.。
But what was really her need?。
What do you think was her need?。
Shout it out.。
What do you think was her real need?。
Pardon me?。
Love?。
Understanding?。
Maybe attention, somebody to actually speak with her?。
Not acceptance?。
She desired relationship.。
She'd been with five husbands.。
She's gone through relationship after relationship after relationship.。
Her deepest need was acceptance and relationship, love, all this.。
And she'd been trying through relationship, relationship, relationship, and it's left。
her empty.。
And Jesus points her towards a relationship that will last forever.。
And that is a relationship with God, with himself.。
And the next thing we need to know is how to be clever.。
Now Jesus, obviously, he's all-knowing, all-powerful.。
He's the smartest person in the world.。
He was clever.。
And when we are witnesses, we ourselves also need to be clever.。
We need to be clever because relationships are so sensitive.。
They're so sensitive.。
You can say one thing and destroy the relationship.。
James warned us, "Be careful of your tongue because your tongue is like a flaming fireball."。
Flaming fireball.。
Anything you can say can destroy the relationship.。
We need to be smart.。
If we're too pushy, we're going to seem as too pushy, right?。
If we're too pushy, then we're going to put off people from Jesus.。
If we keep shoving religion down people's throat, we're going to choke the people, right?。
They're not going to want to know more about Jesus.。
They're going to be turned off about Jesus.。
And so what we need to know is to be sensitive to the Spirit's guidance.。
There are times where somebody is really ready for the gospel and you just go and share the。
gospel with that person and they can come to know Jesus.。
But there are times where some people need more time.。
Maybe they need to work out some of their spiritual issues, some philosophical, theological。
issues.。
Maybe they don't believe in God yet and we need to work out some of these theological。
issues with them.。
Maybe they have issues surrounded about morality.。
Why does God allow evil and suffering?。
Maybe they've had some past hurts in the church and they need to experience more of the love。
of God first.。
And so sometimes it requires more time.。
It's like going apple picking.。
Have anybody gone apple picking before?。
Yeah?。
It's quite popular in Toronto, actually.。
You can just go to the apple farm and go pick the fruit.。
And so what do you usually do at the apple farm?。
You go and pick apples and then you eat them.。
Where do you usually pick?。
Where do you usually pick, Anthony?。
Yeah, in an apple tree.。
Which apples do you usually eat?。
So you're looking at a big apple tree.。
Which apples do you usually pick?。
Do you climb up to the top and then pick the ones at the top?。
No.。
And then climb down?。
No.。
You pick the easier ones.。
It's easy pickings.。
So we need to identify as witnesses what people are ready for the gospel.。
What fruits are ripe for the picking.。
If we're picking Royal Gala apples or Red Delicious, you don't pick the green ones if。
you're Red Delicious.。
You pick the red ripe ones, like the color of your chair.。
Because you know they're ripe for the picking.。
And in the same way, we need to be sensitive to the Spirit to recognize where our friends。
are at spiritually so that we can lead them one step closer to Jesus.。
Our goal is that every time we encounter our friends and our family, that we lead them。
one step closer towards Christ.。
And the fifth thing is Christ.。
If we are friends with our, if we keep playing basketball, if we keep playing board games,。
if we keep playing tennis with these people, but we never lead them towards Christ or share。
Christ, we're no different than the world.。
We're no different than the world.。
Actually the world is better at being friends than us.。
The world is, there's some amazing people out there that are caring and loving, but。
they don't know Christ, but they're amazing friends.。
The difference for us being witnesses is that eventually people need to see Christ in us,。
whether it's through our love, through our actions, and eventually through our words.。
We can share our story, how God has changed us, how he has worked in and through our life,。
how he has saved us, and share that story with them.。
And so the next slide, you'll see this diagram.。
Yes, our goal as Christians, as witnesses, is that we want to lead our friends, family,。
relatives, coworkers, one step closer towards Jesus Christ.。
Every time we meet them, we're hoping.。
So maybe we have friends that are without Christ, and they're so far from Christ, right?。
They're like anti-God, they're like anti-church, anti-Christian, but somehow they know you,。
and they like you, and they start eating out with you.。
And so they're here.。
And so every time you have dinner with them, hopefully, oh, they see, oh, they're at one,。
and they're, oh, they have dinner with you, and they're, oh, he's not a bad guy, Anthony.。
They become at two.。
And he's like, oh, yeah, he actually cares about me, three, right?。
And then they become closer to this point, let's say it's number five, a point where。
they're ready to be open towards knowing more about Jesus, and to the point where they're。
willing to even enter into a relationship with Jesus, accepting Christ, right?。
And once they've accepted Christ, this is where they're at the church, and we keep helping。
them to become mature Christians, leading them to know God, and becoming more like God.。
And so we see here, in the story of Jesus and the Samaritan woman, that Jesus reveals。
himself.。
And he says this, actually, let's read John chapter four, 25 to 26.。
The woman said, "I know the Messiah called Christ is coming.。
When he comes, he will explain everything to us.。
Then Jesus declared, 'I, the one speaking to you, I am he.'"。
How many times in the New Testament do we see that Jesus so clearly reveals his identity?。
Is it every day on Instagram, he's like, yo, here I am, this is what I'm doing, this is。
who I am, come follow me on Instagram.。
Does he say that?。
No.。
He's actually very subtle.。
He might probably not have Instagram if he was alive today.。
He'd be very subtle.。
Maybe it was a very private, to 12 disciples, Instagram page, right?。
But Jesus chooses to reveal himself, that he is the Christ.。
And we as his witnesses, we also need to reveal to our friends and our family, acquaintances,。
that we are followers of Christ.。
We need to choose to connect with our friends and family intentionally.。
We need to connect with them.。
We need to care about them, their spiritual background, their spiritual need.。
We need to be clever to understand the timing that God has.。
God has the perfect timing.。
And eventually, we need to lead them towards Christ.。
I was playing basketball, obviously.。
And I was playing basketball, and I met a friend, I met a guy named Jonah.。
And this was like a year and a half ago, I think.。
And actually, we weren't friends.。
I was friends with his friend, and his friend brought him to play basketball with us.。
And I quickly learned more about Jonah, that he actually went to Confucius High School,。
which is actually in Causeway Bay.。
And we started playing ball more and more together.。
And I realized that he was actually quite open towards knowing more about spiritual。
things.。
Actually, he liked Confucianism so much that he took a personal private class every week。
to learn and study Confucius text.。
So then I'm like, "Oh, if you're interested in Confucius text, maybe you would be interested。
in learning about the Bible as well."。
And so I invited him to start coming to our fellowship on Thursdays.。
And so this no-religion kind of person who likes to know more about Confucianism and。
Buddhist texts and Confucius texts started coming to our fellowship regularly.。
And he started coming for several months, actually.。
And he even came to one of our summer camps.。
So I was playing basketball with him one day, and then we had dinner.。
And he was like, "Oh, what are you doing tomorrow?"。
I said, "I'm going to camp.。
I'm going to one of our Explorer camps."。
Explorer is the name of our youth program.。
And he's like, "Cool."。
And I'm like, "Do you wanna come?"。
And he's like, "Yeah, sure.。
I'll ask my parents right now."。
So I call Carmen, who is in charge of the camp.。
I was like, "Yo, I have this high school student.。
He wants to come to our youth camp.。
He's non-Christian, and it's awesome.。
It's perfect.。
He can come, and this is a camp for an outreach that we've been doing, Chan Bok Sa students."。
And so he comes to the camp, and he's been coming to fellowship.。
And then one night, after basketball, me and Ken, we were having dinner with him.。
And we just said, "You know, Jonah, you've been learning about Jesus.。
You've been coming to fellowship.。
You came to our camp.。
What do you think about Jesus, honestly?"。
And I shared the gospel with him.。
I drew it out for him.。
You know, the first step, God wants a relationship with us.。
The problem is sin.。
Jesus is the solution to sin.。
And what do you think about it?。
And he's like, "I really think that God is real, and I really want to know him more.。
And I'm willing to ask him into my life to be my Lord and Savior."。
And the next slide, you'll see this photo.。
I wrote it out here.。
Jonah accepted Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior on November 20th, 2021.。
And the witnesses were me and Ken.。
And this was six months of getting to know Jonah, connecting with him, choosing to be。
intentional, caring about him, his spiritual background, caring about what his spiritual。
need was, and eventually leading him towards Christ himself.。
When you encounter Christ, your life will change.。
And Jonah has moved to the UK, and we still keep up.。
We still call on a regular basis, and we do some discipleship and read the Bible together.。
And he's actually recently telling me, "Oh, I'm starting to serve more in church.。
I'm starting to play the piano and join the worship team."。
And he goes to a church regularly and a youth group, a university group regularly.。
And it's amazing to see how this person, who grew up with a Confucius background, Confucius。
high school background, has come to know Jesus.。
And we can be witnesses, not just me as a witness.。
You can be witnesses for Jesus as well.。
It doesn't mean you have to take a 12-step program to know how to share the gospel.。
You can share the gospel.。
You can be a witness.。
And we see this from the Samaritan woman herself.。
Let's read together.。
John 4, verse 28 to 30.。
"Then, leaving her water jar, the woman went back to the town and said to the people, 'Come,。
see a man who told me everything I ever did.。
Could this be the Messiah?'。
They came out from the town and made their way toward him."。
And actually, in the next couple verses, it says, "Many people came to know and accept。
Jesus as the Messiah on account of the testimony from this woman."。
This woman just got to know Jesus.。
She didn't even go through Alpha or 101 or 102 or 103.。
But what she did, she knew who Jesus was, and that encounter changed her life.。
And what did she do?。
She couldn't help but go back into her town and tell people, "This is a person who told。
me everything I ever did.。
Could this be God?。
Could this be the Messiah, the person, the Savior that we've been longing for?"。
And just like this woman, we can be witnesses.。
Tell the person beside you, you can be a witness for Jesus.。
Tell them enthusiastically.。
You can be a witness for Jesus.。
When you encounter Christ, your life will change.。
As you see in the next slide, when you encounter Christ, your life will change.。
The Samaritan woman encountered Jesus Christ, and because of that, her life was changed.。
And out of that relationship, there was an overflowing, outpouring of this desire to。
witness, to talk about what Jesus had done.。
Today, will you be a witness?。
Will you be a witness?。
As the band comes up, I want us to just close our eyes and think about the circle of friends。
that God has placed in your life, the circle of relationships that God has placed in your。
life.。
Is there one or two names that God is speaking to you about these one or two or three people?。
That he's asking you to choose to be intentional with, to care about them, to connect with。
them, and lead them eventually towards Christ.。
Is there one or two names that Jesus is speaking to you?。
Let's just take a moment to intentionally start praying for these one or two people。
that God has placed in your heart, that he's asking you to witness to.。
Maybe it's a family member.。
Maybe it's a friend, a long-time friend.。
Maybe it's a co-worker.。
Let's spend some time.。
Who is Jesus asking you to witness to today?。
Heavenly Father, we place these people that。
you've put into our lives into your hands.。
We ask that, Lord, you would guide us by your Holy Spirit to be intentional, to choose to。
be intentional, to connect with these people, that we could care about them.。
Care about their spiritual background.。
Care about their needs.。
Give us wisdom.。
Guide us by your Spirit to know the timing, the right timing, that we can lead them one。
step closer to Christ.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
(upbeat music)。
