Hello KFCI, it's good to be able to gather again to hear the word and to worship through。
song.。
We surely have missed all of you.。
We hope everyone is staying safe and healthy.。
And let's start now for today's service with some worship through song.。
I cast my mind to Calvary where Jesus bled and died for me.。
I see His wounds, His hands, His feet.。
My Savior on that cursed tree.。
His body bound and drenched in tears.。
The entrance sealed by heavy stone, Messiah saved and all alone.。
Oh praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days we will sing Your praise.。
Oh Lord, oh Lord our God.。
And on the third at break of dawn, the Son of Heaven rose again.。
Oh trampled death, where is your sting?。
The angels roar for Christ the King.。
Oh praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days we will sing Your praise.。
Oh Lord, oh Lord our God.。
He shall return in robes of white.。
The blazing sun shall peace unite.。
And I will rise among the saints.。
My gaze transfixed on Jesus' face.。
Because we are all friendly on that day.。
For endless days.。
Oh Lord, oh Lord our God.。
Oh praise the name of the Lord our God.。
Oh praise His name forevermore.。
For endless days we will sing Your praise.。
Oh Lord, oh Lord our God.。
Oh Lord, oh Lord our God.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
[MUSIC - "MAD OF SORROWS"]。
"Mad of Sorrows."。
Mad of sorrows, Lamb of God, by His own betrayal.。
The sin of man and wrath of God has been on Jesus' name.。
Silent as He stood accused, beaten, moult, and scorned.。
Bowing to the Father's will, He took a crown of thorns.。
Oh, that rugged cross, my salvation,。
where Your love poured out over me.。
Now my soul cries out, hallelujah.。
Praise and honor unto Thee.。
[MUSIC - "SENT OF HEAVEN"]。
"Sent of Heaven."。
Sent of heaven, God's own Son to purge, his hand redeem.。
And reckonsile the very ones who nailed him to that tree.。
Oh, that rugged cross, my salvation,。
where Your love poured out over me.。
Now my soul cries out, hallelujah.。
Praise and honor unto Thee.。
"Now My Debt."。
Now my debt is paid.。
It is paid in full by the precious blood。
that my Jesus bled.。
Now the curse of sin has no hold on me.。
Whom the Son sets free, oh, is free indeed.。
Now my debt is paid.。
It is paid in full by the precious blood。
that my Jesus bled.。
Now the curse of sin has no hold on me.。
Whom the Son sets free, oh, is free indeed.。
Oh, that rugged cross, my salvation,。
where Your love poured out over me.。
Now my soul cries out, hallelujah.。
Praise and honor unto Thee.。
"See the Stone."。
See the stone is rolled away.。
Behold the empty tomb.。
And hallelujah, God be praised.。
He's risen from the grave.。
Oh, that rugged cross, my salvation,。
where Your love poured out over me.。
Now my soul cries out, hallelujah.。
Praise and honor unto Thee.。
Praise and honor unto Thee.。
Praise and honor unto Thee.。
Thank you, worship team.。
Now we're going to enter into a time of prayer.。
I'm going to pray first.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you。
that even though we're in the middle of this crisis,。
that you are still sovereign, that you。
are Lord over all things, and we trust in you.。
Lord, we want to specifically pray for our world leaders.。
Lord, every decision that they make is very important.。
And we ask that, Lord, you would give them wisdom to know how。
to make every decision.。
I pray that, Lord, they would surrender to you。
and ask the Lord of all knowledge and wisdom。
to help them.。
I pray that, Lord, you would comfort these leaders。
as they must be under tremendous stress.。
Lord, guide them by your spirit, we pray in Christ's name.。
Amen.。
Lord, I just pray for medical leaders all around the world,。
Lord.。
I pray for--。
yeah, Lord, just that you would continue to keep these frontline。
workers safe.。
Thank you for them, Lord.。
Just thank you for the courage that they have in--。
yeah, Lord, just reaching out to the sick,。
in making sure everyone stays healthy and safe, Lord,。
and in just tending for those who have。
been afflicted of the sickness.。
Lord, we just pray that you would continue。
to protect them, Lord, that those。
who are in dire need of resources。
would be able to get protection supplies from where。
they need, Lord.。
And we pray, too, that you would give them adequate rest,。
that you would keep their bodies healthy,。
especially because they're fighting on the front lines,。
Lord, and it's even more important for them to be safe.。
So Lord, we just pray for your protection over them.。
In Jesus's name I pray, amen.。
And now we pass the time to Pastor John.。
One of the people that we're praying for at the moment。
is the Prime Minister of Britain.。
I'm reminded of a comment made by a former Prime Minister,。
Harold Wilson, who said, "A week is a long time in politics."。
I think we could safely say that a week in 2020。
is also a long time.。
In some countries around the world, just this last week,。
the number of cases, the death toll,。
has actually doubled inside that week.。
Even this week in Hong Kong, I mean,。
restrictions have been placed.。
For example, Johnny can't go to the pub anymore.。
James can't play mahjong anymore.。
Bonnie can't go karaoke.。
And you know, I could go downstairs and order。
a Big Mac and large fries at 5 to 6 in the evening,。
but not get one at 5 past 6.。
We are studying Matthew's Gospel and have entitled our series,。
Jesus is King.。
25%, one quarter of Matthew's Gospel。
is devoted to the last week of Jesus' life.。
That's the last 0.05% of Jesus' life.。
We see, don't we, on one hand, the crowd shouting, "Hosanna!。
Jesus is King!。
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!"。
Days later, the crowd shouting, "Crucify!。
Crucify him!"。
In a few days, the mood has changed,。
gone from celebration to apparent defeat.。
The so-called Savior, Messiah, the King, dead on the cross.。
The sign above his head mocking him,。
Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews.。
It seems that even those who crucified him。
have been listening to our sermon series.。
I guess that's a little how our city feels。
after the social unrest followed quickly by the virus.。
But we know it is not the end.。
I love the book by Tony Campolo, "It's Friday,。
but Sunday's coming."。
We meet today not as a people defeated,。
but as one poised for victory.。
Johnny will be back next week to talk to us。
about the resurrection.。
We are looking forward to Easter Sunday,。
and weeks after that to Pentecost,。
to the coming of the Holy Spirit.。
And we have a choice.。
We can stay here, and I'm not undermining。
our serious situation.。
Or we can prepare for resurrection,。
and we can prepare for a fresh wave of the Holy Spirit.。
It's a dilemma having a Saturday service.。
I always wonder at Easter whether we're actually。
having a Good Friday service or an Easter Sunday service,。
or maybe a bit of both.。
We call this week before Easter Holy Week,。
because it was originally the time of the Feast of Passover。
when the Jews were saved in Egypt.。
And because of the miraculous things。
that Jesus did in the last week of his life.。
During Holy Week, we wave palms in the air。
and hail Jesus as King, the long-awaited Messiah。
who's going to save us.。
Then we change our minds and scream that the Romans should。
crucify him.。
We share a loving Last Supper.。
And he washes our feet.。
Then we sneak out after dinner, and we betray him.。
Jesus begs us to stay with him.。
We promise we will.。
Then we don't.。
We abandon him.。
He's arrested and beaten.。
He forgives us, and then we run away.。
Then Jesus is killed.。
We lay him in a tomb and weep.。
We go back for him.。
Then he's gone.。
Now he's back.。
Then wait.。
He's not dead at all.。
We witness to Christ in song and story throughout Holy Week.。
On Palm Sunday, normal times process with palms and songs.。
We celebrate Jesus triumphantly riding into Jerusalem。
on the back of a donkey.。
Men and women line the streets yelling, "Hosanna!"。
and waving palm branches.。
They were greeting the Messiah who they。
believe had come to save us.。
Let's hear James read that account to us.。
The disciples went and did as Jesus had instructed them.。
They brought the donkey and the colt。
and placed their cloaks on them for Jesus to sit on.。
A very large crowd spread their cloaks on the road,。
while others cut branches from the trees。
and spread them on the road.。
The crowds that went ahead of him and those that followed。
shouted, "Hosanna to the Son of David!。
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!。
Hosanna in the highest!"。
When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city。
was stirred and asked, "Who is this?"。
The crowds answered, "This is Jesus, the prophet。
from Nazareth in Galilee."。
We can be like that crowd.。
Fair-weather Christians in church at weekend,。
singing praise songs, hands lifted high in worship.。
I love the song by Matt Redmond, "Blessed Be Your Name."。
He actually wrote this after 9/11 in 2001.。
And he says, "Look, when the sun is shining down on me。
and the world, all it should be, blessed be your name."。
But then he said, "When there's pain in the offering,。
on the road, Mark, we're suffering.。
Blessed be your name."。
On Holy Monday, we remember Jesus。
throwing out all the money changers and vendors。
from the temple.。
Now, the temple in Jerusalem was a place of worship.。
It was the center of worship for the Jews.。
And they were required to present money and animals。
for sacrifice to the priests when they visited.。
Johnny is going to read this now to us.。
"Jesus entered the temple courts and drove out。
all who were buying and selling there.。
He overturned the tables of the money changers。
and the benches of those selling doves.。
It is written, he said to them, 'My house。
will be called a house of prayer,。
but you are making it a den of robbers.'"。
Animal vendors and money changers。
had set up booths in the courts.。
People believed that God actually。
lived in the most holy of holy places,。
the inner sanctum of the temple.。
The desecration angered Jesus so much。
that he turned over the tables of the money changers。
and ran all the animal vendors out.。
Now, before we start asking, how dare they?。
We have to ask ourselves, are the same hands。
that are lifted in worship at the weekend involved。
in something in the office on Monday。
that we should be ashamed of?。
Something underhand stabbing a colleague in the back,。
gossiping this Easter weekend?。
Let's search ourselves.。
And if we find that we are a little too much。
like the money changers, get on our knees before the King。
and ask him to forgive.。
On Holy Tuesday, Jesus spent most of the day。
at the Mount of Olives.。
On the Mount of Olives, where he preached.。
Our team was there in June last year.。
There's a picture on the screen.。
And we get the parables of the kingdom.。
James spoke to us last week about the parables of Jesus.。
He was telling the crowds what the kingdom would be like。
and how we could join him.。
The parables of the two sons, the tenants, the wedding。
banquet, the 10 virgins, the talents, the sheep。
and the goats are quoted in these chapters.。
I wonder if we have fully embraced Jesus as King。
and understand what kingdom living actually is.。
On what is strangely called Spy Wednesday,。
we remember Judas Iscariot, a zealot,。
who thought he was doing the right thing by agreeing。
to betray Jesus for 30 pieces of silver.。
He thought that if Jesus was jailed,。
the people would rise up and overthrow the Romans.。
Let's hear this from Paul.。
Then one of the 12, the one called Judas Iscariot,。
went to the chief priest and asked,。
"What are you willing to give me if I deliver him over to you?"。
So they counted out for him 30 pieces of silver.。
From then on, Judas watched for an opportunity to hand him over.。
On what is called Maundy Thursday,。
Jesus shared a common meal with his disciples.。
We call this the Eucharist or the Holy Communion.。
Many churches around the world strip their altars。
and cover any icons or statues on Maundy Thursday。
in preparation for the morning of Jesus' crucifixion。
on Good Friday.。
There will be no celebration of communion。
until the resurrection.。
Many other churches hold feet washings,。
washing each other's feet to commemorate。
that Jesus washed the feet of his disciples.。
I'm sharing with you now a precious photo.。
This was actually my last day。
as senior pastor of the Vine Church.。
And you'll see in this picture that Sandra and I。
were having our feet washed by Andrew and Chris Gardner,。
who were just about to take over as senior pastors.。
This was one of the most memorable times of my whole life.。
But Jesus reminds us that we're to love each other。
as he loved us.。
We are to metaphorically wash each other's feet.。
He equips his army, not with a sword,。
but with a bowl and a towel.。
Who is he calling you to minister to this Easter weekend?。
Let's read the story of the Last Supper for Florence.。
While they were eating, Jesus took bread,。
and when he had given thanks, he broke it。
and gave it to his disciples, saying,。
"Take and eat, this is my body."。
Then he took a cup, and when he had given thanks,。
he gave it to them, saying, "Drink from it, all of you.。
This is my blood of the covenant,。
which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.。
I tell you, I will not drink from this fruit of the vine。
from now on until the day when I drink it new with you。
in my father's kingdom."。
When they had sung a hymn, they went out。
to the Mount of Olives.。
After the meal, Jesus went to the Garden of Gethsemane。
to pray.。
He asked the disciples to stay and pray with him,。
but they all fall asleep.。
Jesus is left to pray for strength。
for what is to come by himself, abandoned by his own disciples.。
Judas then identified Jesus to the Roman guards with a kiss,。
and he was taken away by the soldiers.。
Now, we are not entirely sure why this Friday got。
the name of Good Friday.。
It certainly wasn't a good day.。
Jesus was brought here before Pilate, the Roman governor,。
and sentenced to death.。
He was then forced to walk the hill of Golgotha,。
carrying the cross to which he would be crucified.。
There was a commemoration of this walk。
called the Stations of the Cross, which participants。
remember each of the steps of the crucifixion.。
Our team did that on the Via Della Rosa.。
Bonnie is going to read this account to us.。
"From noon until three in the afternoon,。
darkness came over all the land.。
About three in the afternoon, Jesus。
cried out in a loud voice, [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]。
which means, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me?。
When some of those standing there heard this, they said,。
he's calling Elijah.。
Immediately, one of them ran and got a sponge.。
He filled it with wine vinegar, put it on a staff,。
and offered it to Jesus to drink.。
The rest said, now leave him alone.。
Let's see if Elijah comes to save him.。
And when Jesus had cried out again in a loud voice,。
he gave up his spirit.。
At that moment, the curtain of the temple。
was torn in two from top to bottom."。
It doesn't sound very good.。
Good Friday is good because Christ。
showed his great love for man and purchased for him。
every blessing.。
If you've accepted his love, it is good news indeed.。
If you've rejected his love, it's bad news,。
worse than any virus.。
Jesus' body was taken down from the cross。
and buried in an unused tomb.。
Holy Saturday ends the season of Lent,。
for Easter Sunday will be a celebration of new life.。
Holy Saturday is a day of waiting for the resurrection。
on Easter Sunday.。
Let's hear it.。
"The next day, the one after preparation day,。
the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate.。
'Sir,' they said.。
We remember that while he was still alive,。
that deceiver said, 'After three days, I will rise again.'。
So give the order for the tomb to be made secure。
until the third day.。
Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal the body。
and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead.。
This last deception will be worse than the first.'。
'Take a guard,' Pilate answered.。
'Go make the tombs as secure as you know how.'。
So they went and made the tomb secure。
by putting a seal on the stone and posting the guard."。
"And so we leave it, the king dead,。
in a tomb with guards and a heavy stone."。
I'm going to give you a spoiler alert now.。
Jesus did not stay dead.。
He did not stay in the tomb.。
He is risen.。
And next week, Pastor Johnny is going to talk。
all about the resurrection.。
But what about us?。
We can pause and reflect.。
Think about each of the days of Holy Week。
and what preparation you can make。
to be ready for the festive celebration。
and the resurrection of Jesus on Easter Sunday.。
I'm going to invite our worship team back now.。
We're going to sing this wonderful old hymn,。
"When I Survey the Wondrous Cross."。
I want you, perhaps not so much to sing it,。
but to reflect on the words.。
And let this be your Holy Week meditation.。
When I survey the wondrous cross。
On which the Prince of glory died。
My riches gained。
I count but loss。
And poor contempt。
On all my pride。
Forbeating Lord。
That I should go。
Saving the dead。
Of Christ my God。
O the vain things。
That shunned me most。
I sacrifice。
Them to His blood。
To from His hand。
His hands His feet。
Sorrow and love。
Throw me, Lord, down。
Did it such love。
And sorrow mean。
O thorns can bow。
So rich a crown。
Were the whole realm。
Of nature mine。
That were a present。
Far too small。
Love so amazing。
So divine。
Demands my soul。
My life, my all。
Demands。
Demands my soul。
My life, my all。
That last verse says,。
"Were the whole realm of nature mine。
That were a present, that were an offering。
Far too small。
Love so amazing。
So divine。
Demands my soul。
My life, my all。
And our response to Jesus。
Who went to the cross。
Who stayed three days dead in the tomb。
Is to say, "Jesus, I offer you my life。
I want to pray a prayer now."。
And wherever you're watching from,。
you can join in this.。
You can ask this Jesus to be your Lord and your Savior.。
Yes, He's King.。
He's King of Kings and Lord of Lords.。
He's ruler of the universe.。
But today, He can be King of your heart.。
Would you just bow your heads and pray with me?。
Father God, I thank you for Holy Week.。
Thank you for the mixed emotions from the crowd shouting "Hosanna"。
to the crowds asking for the death of your Son.。
We thank you Jesus that you went to the cross willingly for me.。
Lord, I recognize I've sinned.。
It was my sins that put you there on that cross.。
I ask you now to forgive me。
and come into my life by your Holy Spirit.。
In Jesus' name, Amen.。
So two things, Church.。
There's a worksheet that goes along with this sermon.。
There's some questions I've posed there.。
One of you just take it away and just spend this Easter weekend。
reflecting on Holy Week and what we've learned today.。
And if you prayed that prayer to ask Jesus in your life,。
drop us an email, get us on Facebook, anywhere, and just tell us.。
We'd love to get in touch with you and to encourage you on this journey.。
And we look forward to seeing you back here next weekend。
as we celebrate the resurrection of our Lord.。
[silence]。
