- Can everyone hear me all right?。
Good evening, church.。
It's so good to see you all, and I'm really excited to be with you tonight.。
And it's a real privilege to share the second part of our sermon series on women in the。
Old Testament, because tonight we'll be talking about a woman who was full of laughter.。
And no, don't worry, Bonnie, we're not talking about you.。
We're talking about Sarah in the book of Genesis.。
Sarah's story is such an important part of the biblical story.。
We see that from her, from God's blessing of her, she becomes #MotherOfNations, and。
from her comes the nation of Israel, and of course, our Lord Jesus himself.。
And as I read her story and meditated and prayed over it, I was deeply encouraged by。
what the Lord showed me.。
You see, she was far from a perfect woman.。
She made a lot of questionable decisions.。
Her faith really wavered at times, but God was faithful to her.。
And church, if there's one thing I want you to hear tonight, it's this, that when we are。
faithless, God is still faithful.。
And my prayer is that you would see that tonight from Sarah's story.。
There's so much to cover in the chapters in Genesis, so I've decided to break it up into。
five parts.。
First, we'll look at Sarah's world.。
Then we'll look at Sarah's plan.。
Then we'll look at Sarah's blessing, Sarah's doubts, and lastly, Sarah's joy.。
So firstly, Sarah's world.。
What was Sarah's world like?。
I just want us to get a sense of where she sits along the big picture of the Bible.。
Well, we read in Genesis 9, this is the era following God's flood of judgment, and God。
is speaking to Noah, and God gives him a commission saying, "Be fruitful and multiply."。
And this clearly echoes the commission that was given to Adam and Eve at the beginning。
of the Bible.。
Pastor John spoke to that about us briefly last week.。
So Noah has this commission, and then immediately we see, unfortunately, how sin corrupts humanity's。
ability to fulfill the commission that's being given by God, to go and be fruitful and multiply.。
They gather, yes, in one place, the land of Shinar, but then they say, "Let us build a。
tower as high as possible and make a name for ourselves."。
So God decides to confuse their languages and scatter them all throughout the earth.。
And this is the world that Sarah and her husband, Abram, at the time, live in.。
They're a nomad family.。
They're solitary, wandering individuals looking for a home.。
And at this point, the reader is left asking, "Where is God's blessing in the midst of this。
sorry situation?。
What happened to his promise, his call for humanity to go and to be fruitful and to multiply?。
Who are God's people?"。
But then we see, moving on quickly, to Genesis 12, where God calls Abram, and he gives him。
a covenant blessing.。
He promises that from Abram will become a great nation, that his offspring will be as。
countless as the stars.。
And God's promise immediately creates tension in the story.。
How is this promise going to be fulfilled?。
Because we see in Genesis 11, Sarah comes in at this point.。
We know that Sarah, Abraham's wife, is a barren woman, unable to have children.。
Now a quick brief note here.。
You see that she's named Sarai at this point, but her name changes later, and we'll get。
to that.。
But just for the sake of consistency, I will use Sarah throughout, just to avoid confusing。
myself as well.。
Well, we see God gives this promise to Abraham and Sarah.。
But there's immediately this uncomfortable disconnect between God's promise and Sarah's。
reality.。
God's promise that from Abraham will become a great nation, but his wife is barren, unable。
to have children.。
And I wondered, what would it have been like to be in her shoes?。
I came across this interesting article by Harvard Medical School looking at the psychological。
impact of infertility on women.。
Let me just read off these findings for you.。
One study of 200 couples seen consecutively at a fertility clinic found that 50% of the。
women there said that infertility was the most upsetting experience of their lives.。
And secondly, individuals who learn they are infertile often experience shock, grief, depression,。
anger, and frustration, as well as loss of self-esteem, self-confidence, and a sense。
of control over one's destiny.。
And I'm sure Sarah was going through a very similar set of emotions, aren't you?。
She was probably going through a lot of bitterness and a deep sense of failure and shame.。
And this would have been accentuated by the values of the culture at the time, which placed。
a premium on women's ability to have children.。
And we see that in our own time, right?。
Isn't it amazing that tonight's talk, we didn't plan for this, lines up with Mother's Day。
tomorrow, and the blessing of our newborns in these congregations.。
Shout out to baby Autumn and to baby Harper and to baby Ellie.。
So we see, right, even in our own time, children are a blessing.。
But Sarah, at this point in the story, seems to have been denied this blessing.。
And what does she do?。
What does she do with her pain and her shame?。
Well, let's read together Genesis 16.。
Please feel free to read along with me.。
Starting from verse one.。
"Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children.。
She had a female Egyptian servant whose name was Hagar.。
And Sarai said to Abram, 'Behold now, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children.。
Go in to my servant.。
It may be that I shall obtain children by her.'。
And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.。
So after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai, Abram's wife, took。
Hagar the Egyptian, her servant, and gave her to Abram, her husband, as a wife.。
And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived.。
And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress.。
And Sarai said to Abram, 'May the wrong done to me be on you.。
I gave my servant to your embrace.。
And when she saw she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt.。
May the Lord judge between you and me.'。
But Abram said to Sarai, 'Behold, your servant is in your power.。
Do to her as you please.'。
Then Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her."。
So what do we see here?。
Sarai is so desperate for a child that she's willing to have Abraham, her husband, sleep。
with another woman if that's what it took.。
Now according to social custom of the time, this might have been an acceptable arrangement,。
but we only have to look at what happens to see that this wasn't in accordance with God's。
original design for man and woman.。
What do we see next?。
Well, Hagar finds out she's with child, and she looks with contempt on Sarah.。
The word contempt here implies that she looked down on Sarah and treated her as a lesser。
person now.。
And Sarah finds this deeply upsetting, and she complains to Abraham, and he kind of just。
puts his hands up and refuses to get involved.。
And then Sarah ends up abusing Hagar and driving her out.。
It's a sad picture of a woman's pain leading to abuse within her family.。
And my question for us, churches, is do we identify with Sarah in any way?。
Of course not all of us are going to have the specific experience of infertility, but。
do we identify with her, her pain, her shame?。
Maybe we really want something from God, and we feel like he's not giving it to us, at。
least in the way we want or at the time that we long for.。
I thought of a season I went through in my life where I was looking for a job.。
I know some of you are going through that experience now.。
And yeah, some of you know I'll be flying to the UK to start a job at a law firm there。
this summer.。
I actually looked for that job for maybe three plus years, and I went through lots of ups。
and downs, countless disappointments and rejections at the interview stage and all of that.。
And I struggled a lot with a sense of failure, of bitterness, and not getting what I was。
looking for.。
So what is that for you, church?。
Do you identify with that?。
We see what Sarah's plans are.。
What are our plans?。
Well, we see her story doesn't end there, so let's move on to Sarah's blessing.。
Because I found myself asking, does this episode frustrate God's grace for Sarah?。
No!。
In fact, he doubles down on his determination to bless her.。
We see in Genesis 17, he makes a covenant with Abraham.。
He promises again that he will be a father of a multitude of nations.。
And how will this blessing be fulfilled?。
Through Sarah.。
Let me read, I didn't make this clear last time.。
I'll read it for you.。
You just sit back and relax.。
I'll read for us.。
Okay, 17, verse 15.。
Thank you, though, I really appreciate the enthusiasm.。
Sit back, guys, relax.。
And God said to Abraham, "As for Sarah, your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but。
Sarah shall be her name.。
I will bless her, and moreover, I will give you a son by her.。
I will bless her, and she shall become nations.。
Kings of people shall come from her."。
And then how does Abraham react?。
Immediately, we see, "Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed and said to himself,。
'Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old?。
While Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child.'。
And Abraham said to God, 'Oh, that Ishmael might live before you.'"。
It's incredible.。
I think this is one of the few instances where we see one of the Old Testament patriarchs。
laugh in God's presence in response to him speaking to him.。
And then he says, "What about Ishmael?。
We've got a solution, right, God?。
We've come up with our own plan.。
Why don't you just use this plan?"。
But God says, "No, no, Abraham, we're not doing it your way.。
Let's do it my way."。
He says, verse 19, "God said, 'No, but Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son, and you shall。
call his name Isaac.。
I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after。
him.'"。
And then we see finally, verse 20, "He blessed Ishmael as well."。
He has a lot of grace for him and for Hagar as well, but unfortunately, we don't have。
time to look at that tonight.。
I was just so struck as I read this story by God's grace for Sarah.。
She's totally given up on herself at this point, right?。
But God has not given up on her.。
She's tried doing it her way.。
And God says, "No, no, Sarah, I have a better way.。
Let's do my way.。
You've made some questionable choices.。
You've abused Hagar.。
You've driven her out.。
You've acted faithlessly.。
I will still bless you.。
I will give you a new name."。
That new name means princess.。
"From you, Sarah and Abraham, this wandering no-man family, I will make royalty."。
And isn't that the nature of God's heart for us, church?。
His blessing for us?。
If there's one thing that becomes so clear through this story, it's that God's blessing。
is not dependent on human performance, but she is blessed simply because of God's grace.。
So she's blessed, but her faith still wavers.。
Let's read on.。
Sarah's doubts, Genesis 18.。
Well we see here that God visits Abraham and Sarah again at the Oaks of Mamre in the form。
of three men.。
I'll read verse 1 to 8 for us.。
"And the Lord appeared to him by the Oaks of Mamre, and as he sat at the door of his。
tent in the heat of the day, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men。
were standing in front of him.。
When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the earth。
and said, 'O Lord, if I had found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant.'"。
He goes on and Abraham shows a lot of hospitality towards God.。
Now let's look at verse 9.。
Picture the scene here.。
"They said to him, 'Where is Sarah, your wife?'。
And he said, 'She is in the tent.'"。
So God is having a conversation with Abraham and Sarah's not there.。
She's at the tent door and she's eavesdropping in.。
And then what does God say?。
"The Lord said, 'I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah,。
your wife, shall have a son.'"。
And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him.。
"Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years.。
The way of women had ceased to be with Sarah.。
So Sarah laughed to herself, saying, 'After I'm worn out and my Lord is old, shall I have。
pleasure?'"。
We saw earlier, didn't we, how Abraham laughs in response to God's word.。
And for some reason, God doesn't quite address that.。
We're not exactly sure why, but he chooses to address Sarah here.。
Verse 13, "The Lord said to Abraham, 'Why did Sarah laugh and say, 'Shall I indeed bear。
a child now that I'm old?。
Is anything too hard for the Lord?。
At the appointed time, I will return to you about this time next year, and Sarah shall。
have a son.'。
But Sarah denied it, saying, 'I did not laugh, for she was afraid.'。
He said, 'No, but you did laugh.'"。
Now, laughter is a very versatile and ambiguous human expression, isn't it?。
It could mean any number of things, from happiness and joy to bitterness to mocking.。
But if we look at the context here, I think it's clear Sarah's laughter is coming from。
a darker place.。
There was a lot of bitterness and cynicism, and she doubted God's word.。
God's promise to her at this point, when she was so old, was just inconceivable to her.。
But church, did you see how God addressed her?。
I noticed he was actually quite gentle.。
He was actually quite gentle with her.。
He could have said, "Sarah, how dare you doubt me?。
Do you know who I am?"。
He simply offers reassurance to her.。
He repeats his promises.。
Church, these were Sarah's doubts at God's word.。
What are our doubts?。
Because I think there's an encouragement here to bring them before God, to not be afraid。
to bring them before our Lord.。
Yes, he is holy, but he is also gentle.。
I've been reading a lot of Isaiah recently, and I was really struck, even as we were singing,。
I was reminded of this passage in chapter 6, where Isaiah sees God, and he can do nothing。
but fall on his face and say, "Woe is me, I'm a man of unclean lips."。
God is holy.。
But later in Isaiah, there's a wonderful passage that says of Christ, "A bruised reed he will。
not break."。
God is gentle.。
God is holy, but he is gentle.。
And God comes through.。
God comes through for Sarah.。
My final point then, Sarah's joy.。
Genesis 21, verse 1, "The Lord visited Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did to Sarah。
as he had promised."。
The word visit here implies a great amount of God's attention and care upon Sarah, his。
grace towards her.。
Verse 3, "Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore him,。
Isaac.。
And Abraham circumcised his son, Isaac, when he was eight days old, as God had commanded。
him.。
Abraham was a hundred years old when his son, Isaac, was born to him.。
And Sarah said, 'God has made laughter for me.。
Everyone who hears will laugh over me.'。
And she said, 'Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children?。
Yet I have born him a son in his old age.'"。
The theme of laughter comes up again, doesn't it?。
Sarah and Abraham's son, he's named Isaac, which means he laughs.。
So God just has such a sense of humor as well.。
And Sarah herself takes up the theme of laughter, right?。
She says, "God has made laughter for me.。
Everyone who hears will laugh over me."。
And do you see what's happened here?。
Sarah once laughed because she was bitter and cynical, but now she laughs with joy when。
God comes through.。
She's been taken from a laughter of bitterness to a laughter of rejoicing.。
And church, so it is for us and our own hearts.。
He is sovereign over them.。
He redeems our hearts as well.。
He is able to take our laughter of bitterness and turn it to a laughter of rejoicing.。
And this is how Sarah's story ends.。
And I asked myself, how is she remembered?。
How is Sarah remembered?。
And she's referred to a few times in the New Testament.。
One of those references is in Hebrews 11, verse 11, which says, "By faith Sarah herself。
received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him。
faithful who had promised."。
That's just an incredible verse because this isn't even mentioned explicitly in the Genesis。
story, but we have this hint from the New Testament that at some point in her life,。
Sarah's heart changed.。
She began to have faith.。
And this is how she's remembered, for her faith, not for her mistakes, not for her sin.。
And so it is with us, church.。
We are remembered for our faith.。
If we come to Christ, if we repent of our sins, we are remembered for our faith and。
not our trespasses.。
So as I close, can I call the band up, please?。
I'll end on this verse I was reminded of from 2 Timothy 2, which says, "If we have died。
with him, we will also live with him.。
If we endure, we will also reign with him.。
If we deny him, he also will deny us.。
If we are faithless, he remains faithful.。
If we are faithless, he remains faithful."。
God was faithful to Sarah even when she was not faithful to him.。
Even when she had given up on herself, God did not give up on her.。
And church, some of you tonight may be in a hard place.。
You may be close to giving up on yourself.。
Maybe you're going through a period of spiritual dryness.。
Maybe you're struggling with sin in your life.。
Maybe you're wrestling with a lot of anxiety.。
My prayer is that you would hear this, church, that he has not given up on us.。
Thousands of years later, another king would come from Sarah's line.。
As God had promised, a king would come from her descendants.。
It was Jesus Christ, God in the flesh.。
Those who walked with him were not always faithful.。
His closest disciples abandoned him as he was about to go to the cross.。
But he was faithful.。
He was faithful to the end.。
And he is faithful to us, church.。
Will we see that tonight?。
Will we see that in Christ all of God's blessings are available to us, including God's blessing。
to Abraham that he would make for himself a nation?。
We have been transferred from a kingdom of darkness to a kingdom of light.。
So will we look to him, church, in faith?。
Will we find joy in his steadfast love, in his blessing that was never ours to earn?。
Why don't I pray and then we can sing?。
Lord we thank you for your faithfulness to us, even as we wander, even as we go through。
our moments of faithlessness.。
Thank you.。
Thank you for your steadfast love.。
Give us eyes to see how good you are and faith to respond.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
