Amen. Amen. Thank you. Pastor。
We have a vision to take the gospel to the whole world by 2033. One, a germ of an idea, an acorn planted here in this church. I want to show you a picture of a breakfast that was held in 2017.。
at the Foreign Correspondents Club. This was the place that that acorn was birthed. And in Hong Kong now we have over 52,000 subscribers from 400 churches in the city. The Hong Kong version is in six different languages.。
But today, over 20 countries, the one song that you heard last week, that we sang last week, is now available in over 20 languages. An estimated 300,000 participants with a film that will eventually be available in every language in the world.。
And the Bible in every language by 2033. My friends, our acorns have become big oak trees.。
Now, you will remember a year ago, we started Matthew's gospel together as a church, as we declared Jesus is King.。
Here's a slide you may remember from 12 months ago. If we were looking for something similar today, a similar expression for Mark, I'd probably suggest Jesus is servant.。
But we could quite easily have chosen Jesus is Messiah. So what we've settled on is Mark my word. It's a play, of course, on Mark's name.。
And it's a famous expression. One that means that something you say will tell you, will tell someone about something you are certain that will happen in the future.。
Let me give you an example. Mark my words. If Johnny went out and got a haircut on Monday, there would be a stream of eligible young females queuing up to go out with him.。
Can you see what I mean?。
Mark's gospel was almost certainly written by John Mark, who we meet several times in the book of Acts.。
From the book of Acts, it may be gathered that John Mark's mother, Mary, had a large house in Jerusalem to which Peter fled after escaping prison.。
That John Mark assisted Paul and Barnabas on their first missionary journey to Cyprus, but then returned to Jerusalem.。
And then later, controversy over receiving John Mark back led to Paul and Barnabas parting ways.。
With Barnabas taking Mark back to Cyprus, and both of them disappearing from the narrative of the book of Acts.。
It was probably written in Rome in about 55 AD. And it seems that although John Mark was not one of Jesus' 12 disciples, it was likely that Simon Peter had dictated a whole chunk of this gospel.。
Now this might explain why there is no mention of Jesus' birth or his childhood.。
If you open up page one, it says, "When he or she had reached age 30."。
And then halfway through, you just get to things and they start talking about his death.。
Well, that's Mark's gospel, and that is Jesus.。
Let me put it into context.。
If you were writing a book about somebody, and on page one, it opened by saying, "When they had reached age 30."。
And then halfway through, started talking about the week of their death.。
You'd think it was strange.。
But as I said, that's Mark's gospel, and that's Jesus.。
Mark's gospel is also more about what Jesus did, rather than what he said.。
So there's nothing like the Sermon on the Mount.。
But there's almost 30 miracles.。
Amongst the four gospels, Mark's was the most neglected by the early church.。
Indeed, there was no commentary on Mark's gospel until the 6th century AD.。
Now, various factors account for this.。
It is by far the shortest of the gospels.。
90% of its stories are found in either Matthew or Luke.。
We call the three of them the synoptic gospels.。
The early church, Father Augustine, considered Mark to be a mere abbreviation of Matthew and Luke.。
Mark's gospel also has a somewhat rougher, less literary style than its peers.。
It is not nearly as elegant as Luke, for example, nor as thematically structured as Matthew.。
The Gospel of John, of course, has its own identity, directly connecting Jehovah I am from the Old Testament to Jesus I am in the New Testament.。
Mark also has, to be fair, a greater number of problem passages, difficult statements and actions by Jesus that it seems that Matthew and Luke had sort of smoothed out.。
But that historical neglect has, however, been reversed in recent years.。
And today, Mark's gospel is amongst the most intensely studied of the gospels.。
A significant amount of scholars consider it to have been the first gospel written and a primary source for both Matthew and Luke.。
Mark writes in a powerful and energetic literary style full of drama, mystery and color.。
Like the other gospels, he provides a unique portrait of Jesus with a special insight into who Jesus was and what he came to accomplish.。
The structure of Mark's gospel provides the key to the author's purpose.。
The first half of the gospel concerns the identity of Jesus as the mighty Messiah.。
And as the son of God, we might say the who.。
The second half concerns the mission of Jesus.。
We might say the why.。
So you can see the first half is about who Jesus was and secondly why Jesus did what he did.。
Now, shockingly, the Messiah is not here to conquer the Roman legions, as many people expected, but to suffer and to die as an atoning sacrifice for sins.。
Mark writes to show that Jesus' crucifixion does not negate his claim to be the Messiah, but rather affirms it.。
His faithfulness to this mission becomes the model for all discipleship.。
Following Jesus means denying yourself, taking up your cross and following him.。
As we start this amazing seven week journey, we join hundreds of thousands of Christians around the world in 22 countries and multiple languages to listen and to watch Mark's gospel.。
We start with a very important subject, the identity of Jesus.。
Just as the Alpha calls, I've said it again, sorry, but just to reiterate what Johnny said, it is not too late to get your friends to come along this week.。
And just as it starts off with who is Jesus, we're going to take a look at this in Mark chapter one, and we're going to present some very important witnesses.。
Now, in a trial, the decision whether to convict or to release, to find guilty or to find not guilty, often rests on the testimony of witnesses.。
Witnesses will either be for the prosecution or for the defense.。
And their statements are key to the eventual verdict.。
Mark chapter one has several key witnesses for Jesus.。
I want to look at each one of them.。
But firstly.。
I want to watch.。
I want to watch our reading tonight.。
Mark chapter one.。
Let's watch it.。
The beginning of the good news about Jesus, the Messiah, the son of God, as it is written in Isaiah, the prophet.。
I will send my messenger ahead of you who will prepare your way.。
A voice of one calling in the wilderness, prepare the way for the Lord.。
Make straight paths for him.。
And so John the Baptist appeared in the wilderness, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.。
The whole Judean countryside and all the people of Jerusalem went out to him.。
Confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River.。
John wore clothing made of camel's hair with a leather belt around his waist.。
And he ate locusts and wild honey.。
And this was his message.。
After me comes the one more powerful than I.。
The straps of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.。
I baptize you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.。
At that time Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.。
Just as Jesus was coming up out of the water, he saw heaven being torn open and the Spirit descending on him like a dove.。
And a voice came from heaven.。
You are my Son, my love. With you I am well pleased.。
At once the Spirit sent him out into the wilderness, and he was in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satan.。
He was with the wild animals and angels attended him.。
I don't know about you, but that scene of Jesus being baptized always chokes me up.。
That was a little taster.。
The one actually has no reading to listen to tomorrow.。
It's a film. It's about 10 to 12 minutes film.。
And that's a little taster for you for what you expect when you wake up tomorrow morning.。
I want to get now to my first witness.。
And my first witness was John Mark himself.。
This is what John Mark wrote.。
The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.。
John Mark states boldly that Jesus Christ.。
Is the Son of God.。
It is likely the mark was an eyewitness to some of the events he wrote about.。
Acts 12, as I said earlier, says that he lived in Jerusalem with his mother, Mary.。
And their home was a meeting place for believers in the city.。
So that's my first witness.。
My second witness is Isaiah and the prophets.。
When I saw that, I thought that would be a good name for a pop group, a heavy metal group.。
So this is what Isaiah and the prophets might look like.。
But this is what it says.。
As it is written in Isaiah, the prophet.。
Behold, I send my messenger before your face.。
Who will prepare your way?。
The voice of one calling in the wilderness, the voice of one crying in the wilderness.。
Prepare the way for the Lord.。
Make straight paths for him.。
Mark actually cites two quotations from Old Testament prophets.。
Malachi 3, 1.。
And Isaiah 43.。
The words messenger and voice refer to John the Baptist, the prophet, the God sent to prepare the way for the sun.。
In ancient times, before a king visited any part of his kingdom, a messenger was sent before him to prepare the way.。
This included both repairing the roads and preparing the people.。
By calling the nation to repentance, John the Baptist prepared the way for the Lord Jesus Christ.。
And Isaiah.。
And Malachi joined forces in declaring that Jesus Christ is indeed.。
The Lord.。
My third witness is John the Baptist himself.。
Let's read this.。
John appeared baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.。
And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the River Jordan.。
Confessing their sins.。
Now, John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist.。
And he had locusts and wild honey.。
And he preached, saying, after me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.。
I baptize you with water.。
But he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.。
Jesus.。
Called John the greatest of the prophets.。
As we saw in the film, in his dress, in his manner of life, in his message of repentance, John identified with Elijah.。
The wilderness, which we pictured here, where John ministered, is the rugged wasteland along the western shore of the Dead Sea.。
John was telling the people symbolically that they were in a spiritual wilderness, far worse than the physical wilderness that their ancestors had endured for 40 years.。
John called the people to leave their spiritual wilderness, trust their Joshua, Jesus, and enter into their inheritance.。
Now, note, John was careful to magnify Jesus and not himself.。
John would baptize repentant sinners in water, but the coming one, Jesus, would baptize them with the Holy Spirit.。
Let's look at Acts chapter one.。
Before his ascension, Jesus said to the disciples.。
And while staying with them, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, you have heard from me.。
For John baptized with water, but in a few days, you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.。
The word I got as I prayed about this verse was saturation.。
John's message and baptism were preparation so that people would be ready to meet and trust the Messiah, Jesus Christ.。
In my personal prayer time, I sensed that God was saying this.。
I want to read it to you.。
I am about to pour out my Holy Spirit upon you in a measure and in ways that you have never seen before.。
Get your empty vessels.。
And I had pictures of buckets.。
We were holding buckets.。
Get your buckets ready to be filled.。
Saturation.。
Do not be frightened.。
Do not limit my spirit.。
Get ready.。
Which leads me to the last and most important witnesses.。
The Father and the Holy Spirit.。
Let's read on.。
In those days, Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.。
Just as Jesus was coming up out of the water, he saw heaven being torn open and the spirit descending on him like a dove.。
And a voice came from heaven.。
You are my son, whom I love.。
With you, I am well pleased.。
When Jesus was baptized, the spirit came on him as a dove.。
And the Father spoke from heaven and identified his beloved son.。
The people who were there did not hear the voice or see the dove, but Jesus and John did.。
The word "beloved" not only declares affection, but it also carries the meaning of "the only one."。
Mark did not write his book about just any Jewish servant.。
He wrote his book about the very Son of God who came from heaven to die for the sins of the world.。
Yes, Jesus is the servant.。
But he's a most unusual servant.。
After all, it is the servant who prepares the way for others and announces their arrival.。
But others prepared the way for Jesus and announced that he had come.。
Even heaven itself took notice of him.。
This servant is God the Son.。
But as I draw to a close, and I want to look for a practical application for us in Hong Kong.。
In 2021, we are a fatherless generation.。
Not only I'm talking about single parents now, but I'm talking about fathers who are absent, who work too hard, who even when they are home are not present.。
This generation are lacking fathers.。
I want to use the father's affirmation of Jesus in verse 11.。
"You are my beloved Son, whom I love. With you I am well pleased."。
To get down to some truths that affect every one of us.。
As I see it in the 21st century, especially in a place like Hong Kong, we have three major crises that are constantly attacking us.。
I'm not talking about the virus or the economy or the political situation here.。
What is in deep crisis, however, is firstly our identity.。
Who we are.。
So often our identity is found in our job, our education, our achievements.。
I say to people in Hong Kong, "How are you?" They say, "I'm busy."。
COVID and uncertainty about the future have attacked our identity.。
I can see it in your social media posts.。
Secondly, relationships. Talking about social media, we have hundreds of Facebook friends, acquaintances, at the expense of real relationships.。
We crave for real friends, real relationships, to be loved and accepted, especially by those who are closest to us.。
People say, "Pastor John, if only my father had done this."。
And thirdly, our purpose. We exist in a world today where so many people have no idea of their purpose.。
The events of the past two years have only heightened this.。
Hope seems to have disappeared from many of us.。
But during Jesus' baptism or graduation, his heavenly father identified three foundational truths that were essential to Jesus' public life and ministry.。
They appear to be the three primary foundation stones of Jesus' life and ministry.。
It might even explain, I said Mark started when Jesus was 30, why Jesus, 30-year-old Jesus, had spent 10 times more sharpening his axe than he did cutting trees.。
And all of these are in verse 11. I want to go through them one at a time.。
Number one, you are my son. Jesus had come to learn who his father was and what his true identity and value was from his father's perspective.。
Number two, whom I love. Jesus had a tested and proven knowledge of his father's love.。
His relationship with his father was secure. It was not based on how many grade A's I got at school.。
It was not based on performance. And thirdly, with you, I am well pleased.。
Jesus had learned that his primary purpose for life and ministry was bringing joy and glory to his father above anything and everyone else.。
My friends, this was Mark chapter 1. Before Jesus had done any ministry, God the Father was telling his son he was accepted, he was secure, and he was significant.。
His child, who he loves, in whom he is well pleased.。
I want to spend the next few minutes, the last few minutes we have together, being a witness myself.。
I'm called to the witness, Dan. I want to be a witness to somebody you may not even know.。
I want to introduce you to the real you.。
You might be asking yourself, who am I really? What is my true value? How attractive and desirable am I?。
Will I ever find the depth of intimate love that I long for? Where do I belong? Where is my future? Where is my hope?。
How am I going to cope after this COVID nonsense is over?。
And the truth is, we are often impacted by what others think about us, or more to the point, what we think others think about us, or what we think about ourselves.。
Or we can be impacted by what God knows about us.。
And the question is, which opinion dominates your thoughts?。
KFCI. The Father is the only one who knows us truly as we are.。
Just as he said to Jesus, you are my son, I love you, I am pleased with you. His opinion of who we are is the only accurate and valid perspective of our identity and worth that exists.。
We can choose this evening to believe my value is determined by who I am, what I do.。
My achievements and the opinions of others.。
But my friends. God has empowered me tonight to give witness to exactly what he thinks about you.。
And these are not my words. These are from his word.。
I want you to do something right now. I want you to close your eyes all over the zoom call. If you're on YouTube, I want to close your eyes. I want to speak to your, your very, very spirit. This is so, so important.。
Because I want to tell you some things.。
The first thing I want to tell you is that you are accepted.。
Maybe say in your heart or say out loud, I am accepted.。
You are God's child as a disciple, you're a friend of Jesus Christ. You have been justified. You have been united with the Lord and you are one with him in his spirit.。
You have been bought with a price and you belong to God.。
You are a member of Christ's body. You have been chosen by God and adopted as his child.。
You have been redeemed and forgiven all your sins.。
You are complete in Christ. You have direct access to the throne of grace through Jesus Christ.。
You are accepted. So just tell yourself, I'm accepted.。
Keep your eyes shut because I want to tell you that you're accepted. But also you are secure.。
Just tell yourself this or maybe call it out. I am secure.。
You are free from condemnation. You are assured that God works for your good in all circumstances.。
You are free from any condemnation brought against you and you cannot be separated from the love of God.。
You have been established, anointed and sealed by God. You are hidden with Christ in God.。
You are confident that God will complete the good work he started in you.。
You are a citizen of heaven.。
You have not been given a spirit of fear, but a power, love and a sound mind.。
You are born of God and the evil one cannot touch you.。
You are secure. Just say to yourself, I am secure.。
So you're accepted. You're secure.。
And lastly, you are significant.。
Just say that to yourself. I am significant. Maybe this is a little bit harder.。
You are a branch of Jesus Christ, the true vine and a channel of his life.。
You have been chosen and appointed to bear fruit.。
You are God's temple. You are a minister of reconciliation for God.。
You are seated with Jesus Christ in the heavenly realm.。
You are God's workmanship. You may approach God with freedom and confidence.。
You can do all things through Christ who strengthens you.。
You are significant.。
Now, open your eyes, please.。
My friend. Welcome.。
To our seven week journey through Mark's gospel.。
You are accepted. You are secure.。
You are significant. You are his beloved child.。
Whom he loves in you.。
He is well pleased.。
And our response tonight.。
Is to run to the father.。
I'm going to ask Paul and the band to sing this wonderful song.。
Run to the father. We're going to sing the words.。
I run to the father. I fall into grace.。
I'm done with the hiding. No reason to wait.。
My heart needs a surgeon. My soul needs a friend.。
So I run to the father again and again and again and again and again and again and again.。
and again.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
