(audience applauding)。
- I tell you what, what a service to worship to him.。
Amazing, I can't think of any place in the world。
I'd rather be tonight than to be here.。
It was great to be in the presence of God.。
Thank you so much.。
But I wanna talk about the Corinthian church.。
The Corinthian church was a mess.。
I spoke two weeks ago on the Apostle Paul's need。
to remind them of order in the church.。
The major issue was the use of spiritual gifts。
or should I say the misuse of spiritual gifts.。
Now Paul had quite a bit to say about this。
and I'm gonna attempt to cover it this evening.。
My overriding verse and it applies to us tonight.。
1 Corinthians 12 one.。
Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers,。
that means brothers and sisters,。
I do not want you to be uninformed.。
Other translations actually say。
I do not want you to be ignorant.。
Now concerning spiritual gifts, KSCI,。
I do not want you to be uninformed or ignorant.。
Now the first thing I think I need to cover is this.。
What is a spiritual gift?。
Well, spiritual gifts are something。
that every believer is given when they receive salvation。
by faith through grace.。
Just as the gift of salvation is by grace through faith,。
we can't earn it, so are the spiritual gifts.。
Our God is so generous.。
He is constantly giving us things.。
The New Testament contains several lists of spiritual gifts。
but what you'll see in a moment。
is that most are in the Pauline epistles,。
the epistles written by Paul.。
And while each list is unique, there is an overlap.。
Have a look at the list on your screen.。
Even this list is not exhaustive.。
And spiritual gifts include natural gifts。
that are empowered by the Spirit.。
And I'm gonna focus this evening。
on the gifts that you see there in 1 Corinthians 12.。
I wanna read that passage to you.。
I'm gonna start at verse four.。
Now there are varieties of gifts but the same Spirit.。
And there are varieties of service but the same Lord.。
And there are varieties of activities。
but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone.。
To each, to each is given the manifestation。
of the Spirit for the common good.。
For to one is given through the Spirit。
the utterance of wisdom and to another,。
the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit.。
To another, faith by the same Spirit.。
To another, gifts of healing by the same Spirit.。
To another, the working of miracles.。
To another, prophecy.。
To another, the ability to distinguish between spirits.。
To another, various kinds of tongues.。
And to another, the interpretation of tongues.。
All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit.。
Who apportions to each individually as He wills.。
I wanna look at this passage pictorially。
and thanks to Bonnie here.。
I've split this into three groups.。
There are three gifts of revelation,。
namely wisdom, knowledge and discernment.。
And each of these require us to say something.。
There are three gifts of power, faith, miracles, healing,。
which require us to do something.。
And thirdly, three gifts of inspiration,。
prophecy, tongues, interpretation of tongues,。
which require us to reveal something.。
Now this is obviously not an exhaustive list.。
In other lists, we've seen them already of the Spirit.。
We see gifts of service, encouraging,。
contributing to the needs of others,。
leadership, showing mercy, evangelists, pastors,。
all kinds of gifts.。
But the main point is that we, the church,。
the church, we need all of them.。
And what Paul does, he uses the analogy of a body.。
I love this.。
He talks about the nose.。
It says, I'm no more important than the eye.。
We need every different part of the body of Christ.。
And some of these gifts more obviously demonstrate。
the unusual acts of God in this world.。
For example, the gift of speaking in tongues or miracles.。
But it also includes natural talents,。
which can be transformed by the Holy Spirit.。
We saw this earlier with our music group.。
God is transforming their natural gifts。
into a spiritual gift.。
The German theologian, Jürgen Moltmann,。
put it like this, I put it on the screen.。
In principle, every human potentiality and capacity。
can become a gift of the Spirit through a person's call,。
if only, if only they are used in Christ.。
The church.。
The church is not meant to be a sort of one man show.。
Too often I've seen churches become like this.。
The pastor does everything.。
And some people are not doing anything.。
Now we've got the World Cup at the moment.。
I was very sad with that match last night,。
that England-USA, I have to say that.。
But someone has likened the church。
to being like a kind of football match,。
in which you have 22,000 people。
desperately in need of exercise,。
watching 22 people desperately in need of a rest.。
And the church can become like that,。
with the pastor doing everything.。
One pastor received a letter.。
Dear pastor, there are 566 people in our church.。
100 are frail and elderly,。
which leaves 466 to do all the work.。
But 80 are young people at school or at college.。
That leaves 386 to do the work.。
But 150 of those are tired business people.。
You recognise that?。
That leaves 236 to do all the work.。
150 of these are busy with children,。
which leaves 86 to do all the work.。
But 15 live too far away to come here regularly.。
That leaves 71 to do all the work.。
And 69 say they've already done their bit for the church.。
And that leaves you and me.。
But I'm exhausted, so good luck to you.。
The church, the church, I'm looking at you now, guys.。
The church is meant to be a place。
where every person's gift is exercised.。
Because God has given gifts to all of his children.。
But the major problem with the Corinthian church。
was actually in the misuse of the gift of tongues.。
And I've seen this repeated in church history.。
And tongues, rather than being a uniting thing,。
has actually been a potentially divisive issue.。
In 2017, we did a teaching series at KFC.。
I was a lot younger then, look at that.。
And we did a series called Tough Questions.。
And I preached a sermon with a provocative title.。
Do I have to speak in tongues to be a Christian?。
A provocative title.。
The answer, however, was anything other than provocative.。
The answer is no.。
Not all Christians speak in tongues.。
It is not the mark of being a Christian.。
Nor is it the mark of being filled with the Spirit.。
You can be filled with the Spirit and not speak in tongues.。
There's no such thing as a sort of first-class Christian,。
a business-class Christian who speak in tongues,。
and a second-class and economy Christian who doesn't.。
And it's not the most important gift.。
St. Paul often puts it right at the bottom of his list.。
So given the Corinthian dilemma,。
what exactly is the gift?。
Let me make it simple.。
And let's turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 13.。
This is a passage which is often read at weddings.。
But I don't know whether people notice this opening verse.。
1 Corinthians 13, verse one.。
"If I speak in human or angelic tongues,。
"but have not love, I'm just a resounding gong。
"or a clanging cymbal."。
Paul says that there are about two types of tongues.。
He says, firstly, all human,。
like speaking in tongues in a human language,。
and secondly, an angelic language.。
Now more often, it's an angelic language,。
which presumably we wouldn't recognize.。
So what exactly is it?。
Well, let's move forward.。
1 Corinthians 14, verse two.。
"For one who speaks in a tongue。
"speaks not to men,。
"but to God."。
And what do we call speaking to God?。
What is it?。
- Prayer. - Prayer, yeah.。
And so it's a form of prayer.。
It's a form of prayer。
that transcends the language limitation.。
It can help us when we're praying for others.。
It is not just a selfish thing,。
but sometimes praying for others is hard,。
particularly if we haven't seen them.。
And God could give us this gift to pray.。
I wanna take you back a few years.。
There was a lovely Christian lady called Dora,。
and she had a very serious illness,。
and she was gonna die.。
And I got a telephone call.。
Can I go to Rutton G Hospital and pray for her?。
Because they're gonna be turning the machine off。
very shortly.。
There's no words in English that I could use。
that would suffice.。
I'm sorry, my canto definitely isn't up to pray.。
And so as I'm in that taxi,。
waiting to go to Rutton G to pray for this lady。
whose machine would be turned off,。
I had a language I could pray in。
which would help me do this。
without having to engage my brain.。
But summarising 1 Corinthians 14,。
what Paul was saying was this.。
He was making a point.。
Don't constantly be using this gift。
in every church service.。
In other words, these people were so excited。
about the gift of tongues。
that instead of talking in a language they could understand,。
someone would get up and speak in tongues.。
And Paul said this, I put it on the screen.。
He said, "Look, this is hopeless.。
"Better to speak in five intelligible words。
"than 10,000 words in a tongue."。
But he said, "Don't forbid it."。
Look at this.。
"So my brothers, earnestly desire to prophesy。
"and do not forbid speaking in tongues,。
"but all things should be done decently and in order."。
Remember I talked on that two weeks ago.。
Decently and in order.。
What he was saying is in public,。
there needs to be an interpretation.。
That's not a translation, but someone needs to say,。
this is what I think that person。
was saying through that message.。
But in private, he encourages the use.。
In fact, he says, "I speak in tongues more than you all."。
Now the problem with the Corinthian church。
was that someone was getting up in church to preach。
and started to preach in tongues.。
Now I've personally prayed privately in tongues daily,。
almost every day for the last 40 years.。
I believe it's a gift potentially available。
to all Christians,。
whatever their denomination or background.。
The Pope who's a Catholic,。
the Archbishop of Canterbury is an Anglican.。
I understand both pray in tongues.。
It is helpful when we don't know how to pray.。
For example, someone with a serious or fatal illness。
or the example I gave you at Ruttengy.。
But if I get up here tonight。
and preach my heart out in tongues,。
it would be useless.。
Laps up.。
And I'd probably lose my job.。
But this was what was happening in Corinth。
and why Paul had to write at great length about the subject.。
In these verses four through 11,。
Paul is simply showing that God works。
in many different ways.。
And he works through his spirit.。
We can also say that the spirit can manifest itself。
in many different ways.。
And that's why Paul lists so many here.。
He lists wisdom, knowledge, faith, healing, miracles,。
prophecy, determining the spirit's tongues,。
interpretation of tongues.。
That's a pretty good list.。
But they're not just confined to these things.。
There are people who have the gift of organisation,。
I'm not one of them.。
People have a gift of management.。
There are people with musical talents.。
There are people with gifts of literary talents.。
There are speaking talents.。
There are people who are able to serve.。
There are people who have compassion for others。
and they can make calls, write notes,。
spend time with the sick.。
We can go on talking about ways that the spirit of God。
is manifested in various activities。
that people do to help one another.。
And it is not just in church services.。
I think I need an amen for that one.。
It's not just in doing the work of God.。
It is in personal interactions with one another.。
The gifts of the spirit are not limited.。
Can we limit God on how he wants to give his spirit。
and empower a person to help?。
I don't think so.。
That is the problem that Israel had.。
They tried to limit him and put him in a box.。
It does not work.。
We'll take a closer look at verses seven through 11。
because there are a few things I need to point out here.。
But I wanna give you a key verse first.。
To each is given the manifestation of the spirit。
for the common good.。
Notice those words.。
Basically spiritual gifts are not for individual gain。
or for glory.。
For they are for the profit of the whole congregation。
or the whole church,。
depending on God's will in the matter.。
God has the right and discretion to use his powers。
in any way he wants.。
Perhaps someone at some point needs something。
or needs something said to them.。
God could then give that person his spirit。
and empower them to do that one thing.。
And it may never happen again.。
The gift is not for the profit of that particular giver,。
but for the person or persons who are receiving the help.。
Of course, obviously it will bring glory to God himself.。
It will be for his profit.。
And Paul before this time has already given us。
three indications that all the glory goes to God anyway.。
At least twice he tells them that we should be working。
towards glorifying God in body and spirit.。
He does this at the end of 1 Corinthians 1.。
And again, at the end of chapter six,。
he spends considerable time on his own example。
of preaching and living among them。
and why he did so in chapters four and nine.。
Finally, in chapter 10, verse 31,。
I've put it on the screen.。
He tells them that whatever you do,。
do it all to the glory of God.。
My friends, that's the third time he mentions that.。
Then at the beginning of chapter 11,。
he comes right out and tells them to imitate him。
as he imitates Christ.。
He sets up these two major guidelines。
and they are the setting for the instructions。
in chapter 12 through 14.。
He wanted them to understand two major points.。
Firstly, everything we do is to the glory of God.。
I need to say that again.。
Everything we do is to give God the glory.。
And secondly, they were to fall back on Paul's example。
because Paul's example was a reflection。
of Jesus Christ's example working through him.。
If we are gonna understand spiritual gifts,。
then we can rely on these two things,。
glorifying God in everything。
and following Christ's examples.。
So then, what is there to feel proud about?。
This is what he's trying to tell them.。
You are taking pride in something。
there is no reason to be proud of.。
I've got a question to the church, the church.。
Why do Christians wear spiritual gifts。
like medals on their chest?。
I've witnessed it time after time.。
Verses eight to 10 are the various spiritual gifts。
that he mentions, wisdom, knowledge, faith, et cetera.。
Paul may or may not have put these in somewhat。
of an order of value to the congregation.。
And which ones does Paul put last?。
Maybe to bring home the point,。
he put last the speaking of tongues。
and the interpretation of tongues.。
He is giving them an idea just where on the list。
this particular gifts belong, dead last.。
Now I do not think, I do not read into this。
that Paul felt that they were not valuable.。
But they were put last to make a point。
about how the Corinthians themselves。
were thinking about these gifts.。
Nevertheless, it was still not something。
to get proud about and glory over.。
He tries to get them to understand。
that the things that they thought were really important。
were not as important as they thought they were.。
You could say that even though they are not unimportant,。
he makes the point of showing them。
to be of lesser importance.。
Verse 11, I'm gonna put it on the screen,。
is a concluding statement.。
He says, "All of these are the work of one。
"and the same Spirit."。
And he distributes them to each one。
or portions them to each one just as he desires,。
as he determines.。
And this summarises the main point.。
His main point is this,。
all spiritual gifts are empowered by the same Holy Spirit。
and God the Father himself determines who gets what.。
Let's read.。
For just as the body is one and has many members。
and all the members of the body,。
though many are one body,。
so it is for Christ.。
For in one Spirit, we were all baptised into one body,。
Jews and Greeks, slaves and free,。
and we're all made to drink of the one Spirit.。
For the body does not consist of one member,。
but of many.。
If the foot should say,。
"Because I'm not a hand, I don't belong to the body."。
That would not make it any lesser part of the body.。
If the ear should say,。
"Because I'm not an eye, I don't belong to the body."。
That would not make it less any part of the body.。
If the whole body were an eye,。
where would be the sense of hearing?。
If the whole body were an ear,。
where would be the sense of smell?。
But as it is, God arranged the members in the body,。
every one of them, each one of them as He chose.。
If all were a single member, where would the body be?。
As it is, there are many parts, yet one body.。
The eye cannot say to the hand, "I don't need you."。
Nor the head say to the feet, "I have no need of you."。
On the contrary, the parts of the body。
that seem to be weaker are indispensable.。
And on those parts of the body that we think less honourable,。
we just bestow the greater honour.。
And our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty,。
which makes our more presentable parts,。
which our more presentable parts do not require.。
But God has so composed the body,。
giving greater honour to the part that lacked it.。
So there may be no division in the body,。
but the members will have the same care for one another.。
If one member suffers, all suffer together.。
If one member is honoured, all rejoice together.。
Now you are the body of Christ。
and individually members of it.。
And God has appointed in the church,。
first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers,。
then miracles, then gifts of healing,。
helping, administration and various kinds of tongues.。
Are we all apostles? No.。
Are we all prophets?。
Are we all teachers? Do we all work miracles?。
Do we all possess gifts of healing?。
Do all speak in tongues?。
Do all interpret?。
But earnestly desire the higher gifts。
and I will show you the most excellent way.。
I wanna come back to that last verse.。
We wanna conclude that after reading this whole chapter,。
Paul had to change their entire way of thinking。
about such spiritual gifts.。
They were coming at it from an extreme,。
carnal, individualistic perspective.。
They were thinking, wow, God has given me this thing.。
They were focused on themselves.。
They were focused on what they could get from this,。
how far they could climb the ladder, what's in it for me?。
How can I make myself look good in church?。
What will propel me to the head of the class?。
What is the one gift that God, that will make me shine?。
It's all I, I, I and me, me, me.。
And Paul had the difficult problem。
of wrestling their attention off of themselves。
and trying to make them start thinking as a body,。
a unified body of Christ,。
a community separate from the world.。
He acknowledges several times in the chapter。
that we retain our individuality.。
He talks about members being individuals.。
There are many members in one body.。
The body is composed of many members,。
but there is a delicate balance between one's individuality。
and one's place in the body of Christ.。
We are part of the whole.。
What he's trying to do is to get them。
to shift their focus of care from inward to outward.。
All they cared about was themselves。
and what they could get.。
But by going at it from this direction,。
he is trying to get them to shift the importance。
of these gifts from how it will benefit them。
to how it will benefit everyone.。
And that's what I mean by shifting the focus。
of care from inward to outward.。
Let's look at how the chapter finished.。
I love this, 31.。
What follows this?。
Paul moves on to the chapter about love.。
1 Corinthians 13.。
Now, the original manuscripts that made up the Bible。
did not have chapter and verse divisions.。
These were added much later.。
Therefore, we conclude that the overriding issue。
with spiritual gifts is that they are to be used in love.。
That was not the story of the Corinthian church.。
But please, please, please, may it be the case at KFCI.。
Our gifts, far from bringing personal glory,。
are to be used to bring glory to God and to help others.。
Would you stand with me as the band comes back?。
(audience members clapping)。
We're gonna do ministry tonight in two different ways.。
In a moment, I'm gonna pray for each one of us.。
But if you'd like personal prayer,。
if you have questions about spiritual gifts。
or would like to receive a spiritual gift,。
please come to the well afterwards。
and we'll pray for you.。
We'll pray for you one on one, two on two.。
However, as I prayed about this evening,。
I felt the Lord gave me two words.。
That's a spiritual gift, by the way.。
He said, "Receive and go."。
And I believe this is so important.。
So often at church, when we talk about spiritual gifts,。
we say, "Hold your hand out, we're gonna pray for you."。
It's all about what we receive.。
And that's important.。
God is saying, "I want you to receive what I have for you."。
But the important thing about this today。
is that God wants to put something in you。
that is not for you, it's for other people.。
And I believe that this church,。
and we'll be seeing this so much more。
over the next six months, we've been praying about this,。
we're gonna have so much of focus on going.。
It's not gonna be what happens in here,。
it's gonna be about going.。
So we receive the gifts and then we're going.。
I got another picture really,。
and it's like this Christmas tree。
that's present here.。
It's got your name on.。
God has got one of these with your name on.。
And you know what so many people do?。
We admire the packaging.。
We leave it down there.。
We don't even open up the gift that He has for us.。
I believe God has got something for each one of you tonight.。
And God is saying, "Will you open up the gift。
"that I've got for you?"。
Now maybe this is an area that's stretching you a little bit.。
I hope it is.。
But what we're gonna do now。
is gonna ask God to come to us by His Spirit.。
And God to send, bear in mind it's God that sends the gifts.。
It's not us or anybody else.。
God will do it as He determines to each one.。
And the reason why He wants to do this,。
He wants this church。
to go.。
To go to the people of Hong Kong.。
We have people here today,。
actually, lovely to have Kelly from China。
and Latika from India.。
We've got half the world's population here tonight.。
Really, seriously,。
to go.。
And I'm gonna invite you now。
just to hold your hands out in front of you.。
Lord, we take you at Your Word.。
We're a church who believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We're a church that believes in Your Word.。
We just spent some time just waiting.。
And when we're ready, Paul will lead us.。
As we sing, Spirit of the Living God,。
would you fall afresh on me?。
Spirit of the Living God, would you fall afresh on our church,。
on our city, on our nation?。
[music]。
Lord, I'm fed up with reading books about past revivals in Your church.。
May we be ready, Lord, to be the people who will take the gospel,。
take the gospel to the ends of the earth.。
Even though it may cost us our lives, our very lives.。
Lord, what we have in our hands, what we have here today is so valuable.。
I pray for that mother on the streets in India.。
She's got so many children. She doesn't know what to do.。
I pray for the businessman in China who is just so struggling at the moment with his mental health.。
He doesn't know whether he's going to be locked down next week or what,。
or whether he'll be able to do business again.。
He needs someone to come alongside him.。
We pray for the young people of Hong Kong,。
where they say, "I have no hope."。
Jesus, be their hope.。
And use us, send us, Lord.。
We cannot do this, Lord.。
Empower us by Your Spirit.。
We need You.。
We need You, Lord.。
[Music]。
