Good evening to everyone at home.。
It's been a strange, strange start to the Chinese New Year.。
I think my wife was just reflecting yesterday.。
It's nearly the middle of February already.。
What's happened to this year?。
What's going on?。
But you know what?。
I'm still grateful, still grateful that we get to share the word of God.。
And hopefully, well, hopefully, first of all, that you are physically safe and physically healthy at home.。
We know that we've been hit with a whole new wave of cases recently.。
But on top of that, I hope that you feel spiritually fed, spiritually fed in the sense that even this, this isn't ideal.。
This isn't plan A, B or C.。
But hopefully, at least, it's still better than nothing.。
And that actually, even through the Internet, we can be a blessing to you.。
We can minister to you in some way.。
And also, emotionally healthy.。
You know, it's, actually the title of today's message, I actually tweaked a little bit, and it's called "I am not".。
And I'll explain a bit more about what "I am not" means later.。
But it, you know, as we were just singing and just preparing, and what John shared, just made me think, you know what?。
It's also okay during a time like this to say, "I am not okay".。
We're going through unprecedented times.。
This is the most cases we've had in the last two years.。
There's so much uncertainty.。
And I don't know about you, but I think I'll be the first to admit that actually, things have not been great.。
Even just sometimes sitting back and just reflecting, "Man, I'm not sure I'm okay".。
And I don't know whether you guys have that or not, but I feel as though, if there's anyone out there, any of us who actually have that sentiment,。
"You know what? These last two years, or last three years for Hong Kong, have just been too much.。
And we're not even allowed to get out. I am not okay".。
And I think if there's anything I want you to get out of this message, it's okay to say that, to say, "I am not okay".。
And then to reach out, maybe even now, maybe even as I'm speaking, maybe as I'm introducing this message, reach out to someone,。
go, "Hey, you know what? I know that we probably shouldn't meet face to face right now, but can we just talk on the phone for a little bit?。
I just wanted to share. I don't think I'm fully there. I'm not okay".。
And I want that to just be a prompt for any of us who have that, "I am not".。
Because being emotionally healthy is so important.。
And I feel as though this message, during this time, we, John, when you assigned this season to be talking about this,。
you had no idea that this was going to be what we were going to be facing.。
And yet it's so important.。
We're still praying for, we're still dreaming for an emotionally healthy church.。
And yet to get an emotionally healthy church, we must have emotionally healthy individuals.。
So then the key is, are we as individuals emotionally healthy?。
And as I was reflecting on the passage that I'm going to be preaching on today, the person in the Bible we're going to be looking at,。
the thing that really hit me about being emotionally healthy is that you need to have emotionally healthy expectations.。
You need to have good expectations of what, you know, we're all hoping for different things.。
We're hoping for COVID to go down. We're hoping for schools to open back up.。
We're hoping that we can go out and meet our families and friends.。
And we're hoping that we can get to fly out of Hong Kong, at least for a little bit.。
Of course, right now, those may not be healthy expectations, given the situation that we have.。
But to have healthy expectations is the beginning to being emotionally healthy.。
And in order to have emotionally healthy expectations, we actually need to have a healthy perception of ourselves.。
How many of us can say that we have that? That we have an emotionally healthy perception of ourselves?。
We know who we are. We know our own identity. We know our own purpose.。
More importantly, we know our own limits. We know what we can't control.。
We know the things that actually are completely out of our control that we have to surrender.。
You see, we need to recognise those, because when we recognise those, when we know our identity, our person, our limits,。
then we have healthy expectations. And when we have healthy expectations, that's when we start to become emotionally healthy as individuals.。
And then when we become emotionally healthy as individuals, then we as a church body have the chance to be emotionally healthy.。
To have an accurate perception of self is maybe where it starts.。
Now that really is called, we know what that word is, it's actually humility.。
The word there is actually humility. Someone has once said that pride is basically taking credit for something that you don't deserve.。
Having an over-inflated or even an under-inflated view of yourself is what pride is.。
It's not knowing who you are. But knowing, when you know your true worth, then you are humble.。
But the problem is this. Humility is so, so hard to grasp. So hard to get.。
There's another quote that I love is, "Humility is such a rare trait that once you think you grasp it, you've lost it."。
Humility is such a rare trait that once you think you've grasped it, that's the moment that you've lost it.。
Of course we've all heard the very popular quote, "Humility is not thinking any less of yourself, it's thinking of yourself less."。
And to start to think about how we can become emotionally healthy, I think it actually, the road begins with humility.。
It begins with us looking at ourselves, but also then recognising it's not about ourselves.。
But we're currently surrounded by a society that is, I guess you could even say narcissistic in the way we approach things.。
Everything, everything is about us. Everything is about what we can do, how we can thrive, how we can strive for the next level for us.。
And yet what we see is we're surrounded by brokenness. We're surrounded by just people just hurting and in pain.。
Certainly a couple of days ago we heard about the former Miss USA, who became a lawyer, who took her own life at the age of 30.。
And this was an individual who was perceived to have everything, and yet at 30 she felt that there was no more hope, there was no more purpose to live.。
And then she gave it all up.。
At the very least that tells you this pursuit of just satisfying your own CV, of building it up, of puffing it up, of focusing on yourself, isn't actually enough.。
It doesn't give you the joy that you're looking for.。
You Too has a song, "You've still not found what you're searching for."。
And so where do we get that true joy from? Where do we get that ultimate satisfaction from?。
It's ultimately when we look beyond ourselves.。
And as we look beyond ourselves, we're going to look into the Bible, and we're going to look into the book of John.。
And there's a character I want to talk to you about who shows immense humility.。
And it's not someone that you actually think first would be the person you'd use to talk about humility.。
And that is John the Baptist.。
John the Baptist is someone who is actually emotionally healthy and also a true display of humility.。
Why, you ask?。
Because John the Baptist, from the account we see in Scripture, was a pretty crazy man.。
He spent most of his time in the wilderness.。
He used camel's hair as a jacket.。
He ate locusts and wild honey.。
And he went around shouting at people.。
And you're like, "Oh, well, he's entitled to do what he wants to, but I wouldn't call him humble."。
And yet, actually, despite all the things that he shouted out, all the things that he said,。
you know what his life's cry is, if I was to sum up, if I dared to even try to sum up what John the Baptist's life was about?。
It would be in one sentence, and it's this.。
It's not about me. It's about him.。
He would write on his grave, as I hazard a guess, would be, "It wasn't about me. It's all about him."。
And as I was reflecting on his story, I was like, "Those are the only words that came to my mind.。
It's not about us. It's about him."。
And so today, I want to talk about, I want to unpack what he says.。
I want to look at how it's humble and how it will help us become emotionally healthy.。
And really, the key, the landing point of all of this, the one sentence I want you ringing in your minds as you leave is,。
"It's not about me. It's about him."。
But before I jump into that, I recognize there's two people who are listening.。
There's two types of people who are listening, whether online or whether here.。
And the first type is this.。
You don't truly know your worth in Jesus yet.。
Maybe you're not a believer yet.。
Maybe you haven't committed your life to him.。
Maybe you're not in a relationship with him.。
And to you, I want to say, you are of ultimate worth.。
You are of so much worth.。
You are loved so dearly.。
You are fearfully and wonderfully made.。
So much worth that Jesus, the Son of God, the Prince of Heaven, deemed you worthy enough to sacrifice himself for you.。
And I want you to know that, that you are that valuable.。
You may have spent your life being neglected.。
You may have spent your life not being seen or not being respected or heard.。
I want you to know how valuable you are in the eyes of God and how much he loves you.。
You're the first group.。
The second group of people is those of us who actually know God, know Jesus, know that we're Christians.。
And to you, I want to say something else.。
To others, I want to say something else, and that's this.。
It's not about you.。
It's all about God.。
You see, so often, even in our own Christian lives, we've made it about us.。
God, what do you want me to do?。
What's the thing that you want me to carry out for you?。
How am I going to find satisfaction?。
God, you give me peace.。
It's all about me.。
And I want to tell you, beloved brothers and sisters, it's not about you.。
It's about him.。
It's not about me.。
It's about him.。
And in order for us to take on that journey, we have to figure out, to get to that point。
where we recognise it's not about us, we have to do three things.。
We have to know our own identity, we have to know our own limits, and we have to know our own purpose.。
Just like John the Baptist.。
And next slide will show, as we look at John the Baptist, why was he humble?。
It was because he knew his own identity.。
He knew his own limits, and he knew his own purpose.。
That's why the title of the sermon is "I Am Not."。
And today we'll just jump straight in and we'll unpack these three points, and I hope the message that carries through is,。
it's not about us.。
It's not about our own goals and our own ambitions.。
You can take everything else, just give me the one that truly matters.。
Jesus.。
And so we jump straight in.。
John the Baptist knows his own identity.。
John chapter 1, verse 19, and it says this.。
"And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him,"。
three words, "Who are you?"。
A little bit of context here.。
John the Baptist is growing a bit of a fan base.。
He's getting quite popular.。
He may be crazy, but people are following him.。
And they're going out into the wilderness to find him, to be shouted at, and to repent, and to be baptised.。
So he's getting a following.。
So at that point, the Jews, the Pharisees, they're like, "Well, who is this guy?"。
Now, they're used to this because they feel their mission is to basically clump out and exterminate any false messiahs.。
So they send these priests and these Levites to go out to him, and they ask him three words, "Who are you?"。
And John the Baptist looks at them, knowing what they're really asking.。
Because what they're really asking is, "Wait, are you a prophet?。
Are you a messiah?。
Who are you?"。
Really, they're asking two things.。
"Who are you, and what is your business here?"。
"Mai masui a?。
Nei ma gau ma la?"。
Is what they're asking.。
Because they're seeing this following, and they're like, "This is threatening to us."。
And then, he doesn't tell them who he is.。
And he says, it's not on the slides, he confessed and did not deny, but confessed, "I am not the Christ."。
So instead of saying who he is, which he could say, "Hey, I am John, son of Elizabeth, son of Zechariah.。
I am a Baptist by trade.。
I'm a bit of a crazy man.。
I prefer camel's hair on my skin."。
He doesn't say any of those things.。
He goes straight into the heart of why they're asking.。
And he says, "I am not the Christ."。
And then they go, "Well, okay, if you're not the Christ, then who are you?。
Are you a prophet? Are you Elijah?"。
He's like, "No, no, no, no, I am not any of those things."。
And then what does he say?。
He says, in verse 23, he said, "I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness.。
Make straight the way of the Lord," as the prophet Isaiah said.。
So he roots his answer of who he is in Scripture.。
He didn't tell them anything else, but he says, "Who I am can be found in the word of God, and this is who I am.。
I am the voice.。
I am just the voice of one crying out in the desert.。
Make straight the way of the Lord."。
So his answer is all about rooted identity in Scripture.。
I wonder if someone asked us, "Who are you?"。
Maybe recently someone has asked you, "Oh, who are you?"。
How would you respond?。
So often in society right now, when we're asked that question, depending on context, we'll be like,。
"Well, I am James, son of Nelson. I'm a pastor. I do this, I do that. I'm Chinese. I like Chinese food."。
And then you tell them all the things about you.。
But here's the thing. If we don't know our true identity, that's when we'll start to lose our way.。
That's when we'll lose our humility because we'll either become too prideful or too insecure.。
And then when we do that, we're heading towards emotional unhealthiness.。
But the question is, when you are asked, "Who are you?"。
What is the first thing that you say?。
Your social media profile, your Instagram account.。
Because you're asked to put your name and then you're asked to give a little bio of yourself.。
What do you write there?。
What is the first thing that you write there?。
What do you do?。
In our circles, it's probably my name and what I do.。
But what's your prime identity?。
Because identity is so important.。
And John here seems to get it right.。
He knows exactly who he is. He roots his answer in Scripture.。
For us, who are we?。
See, identity is so important.。
Even the world outside who don't know God know how important it is.。
So many films, so many heroes in the film.。
Of course, films have to kind of go up and down and there's valleys and before the final triumph.。
How do they get to that final triumph?。
Often that hero discovers who they truly are.。
You hear Simba hearing the voice booming from the heavens, "Remember who you are."。
When we know our identity, that is when we are truly humble.。
That's when we'll finally be on the road to becoming emotionally healthy.。
So my question to all of us here, to my question to you at home.。
When you are asked, "Who are you?" What do you say?。
You see, in Hong Kong, HKID cards are very important.。
And they're so important that if you found not having, carrying it, then of course you get punished.。
But I think for us, as children of God, we've dropped our identity cards half the time.。
We can't find where they are.。
Because I'll tell you who you really are.。
You are a child of God.。
You are a child of God.。
Now just pause for a second because you've heard that, you've sang it before.。
And I want you to imagine, if that was the thing on your mind the most when you think about identity,。
how would that, how should that impact the way you live?。
Those people that you're slightly intimidated by, those people you're slightly jealous of,。
that person you're particularly angry at,。
how does your identity as a child of God impact the way you think about them now?。
That career move that you really want to make,。
that car that you really want to buy,。
that lifestyle that you really want to live.。
If you truly recognise that you are not so and so, and a doctor, or an engineer, or whatever it may be,。
if you are truly, I am so and so, I am a child of the most high God,。
how does that impact the way you think?。
How does that impact the way you live?。
Because that has so much to do with whether you'll end up being emotionally healthy or being unhealthy.。
So John the Baptist knows his own identity, and then he knows his own limits.。
Chapter 1, verse 26 says this.。
So they ask him, "Hey, wait, you're not the Christ, you're not Elijah, you're not the prophet,。
so what are you doing? Why are you baptising people?"。
That's what they're asking him, and then verse 26 they say this,。
"And John answered them, 'I baptise with water, but among you stands one you do not know.。
Even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.'"。
So not only does he know his own identity, he also knows his own limits.。
He knows his own limits, and it's so important, if we're to be emotionally healthy, to know our own limits.。
He knows who he is not.。
How often do we know who we are not?。
How often do we know what our own limits are?。
Yet society tells us to keep striving, keep chasing, keep going, because there's a better you in there.。
And yet we find there's nothing.。
But if we were to know our own limits, John says, "I baptise with water,。
but there's going to be someone who's coming who's going to baptise you with the Spirit."。
Let me tell you about this guy.。
This guy, I'm not even worthy to untie his sandals.。
Just let me tell you a little bit about that.。
Back then, disciples obviously would care for rabbis.。
They'd give them drinks, they'd look after them, give them food, give them a jacket to wear if they're cold.。
But there's one thing that they wouldn't do, would be to untie their sandals,。
because that job was exclusive to slaves.。
So then someone like John is saying, he's like, "I am not even worthy to be a slave for the next guy."。
He knows his own limits. He's like, "I'm only dealing with water here.。
The elements I'm dealing with are physical and from this realm,。
but this guy is going to be baptising with the Spirit.。
And with him, I cannot even compare.。
I know my own limits."。
And that water baptism is simply just a symbol for the baptism that is to come.。
And so he's saying, "Look, you don't even know."。
Here's the problem. These people asking him questions,。
they are still looking for the Messiah, but they're also trying to clamp down all the false messiahs.。
Isn't it ironic that in the midst there, in their midst was the actual Messiah,。
yet they couldn't see him. Why?。
Because they were prideful. Because they had a religious pride in them.。
They were too busy puffing themselves up. They were blind.。
And yet here's John the Baptist saying, "I know my own limits.。
Look, I know who I am not. I'm not even pretending to be a big deal.。
Because there's a guy who's coming who I'm not even qualified to be his slave.。
I can't even be his slave.。
So don't come at me with this because there's going to be someone who's even bigger."。
John the Baptist knows his own limits.。
It's interesting here because Jesus himself says, Luke 7, he says,。
"There's none greater than John the Baptist."。
John the Baptist is the greatest. Jesus himself said that.。
And so if the greatest that Jesus said still knows his own limits,。
still thinks he is nothing compared to Jesus, where does that leave us?。
But do we truly know our own limits? Do we have that kind of pride?。
Because if we have that kind of pride, then we have to repent of it.。
We have to let it go. Because we're nothing compared to even John the Baptist,。
let alone Jesus. The road to emotional health starts with humility.。
The road to humility starts with knowing your own identity, knowing your own limits,。
knowing who you are not.。
And again, there's two types of people here I need to address this with。
when it comes to this issue of knowing your own limits.。
There's a group who you can't stop puffing yourselves up.。
You can't stop pretending to be someone that you're not.。
You can't stop saying, "Hey, look, I can do all these things.。
Look at me. I can do all these different things."。
To you, it's let go. Know your own limits.。
And if anything, these last few years around the world have reminded us。
that we are all flawed. We all fall short of the glory of God.。
Know your own limits. Know who you are not.。
Be comfortable in saying, "I am not good at this.。
I do not know what is going on. I am not okay."。
Stop puffing yourself up.。
And to the second group, you're beating yourself up.。
And I want you to tell you to stop beating yourself up.。
You are limited. You are flawed. You are mortal.。
And that's okay.。
But your insecurity is actually a form of pride in itself.。
Your insecurity isn't humility.。
Because it's showing that you don't know your own identity.。
You don't know your own limits.。
If you were truly aware and knew what your limits are,。
you would recognise that, man, Jesus doesn't care about what you can do.。
There isn't a ladder to climb up to Jesus.。
There's nothing that you can jump for and grasp to get to Jesus.。
The only way you get to Jesus is to know your own limits。
and to open your hands out.。
Know your identity. Know your limits.。
So how does John know his own limits?。
How does he remind himself every day of this?。
Because we've all been there where there'll be days where we're like,。
"You know what? I was too prideful at that moment. I was too insecure."。
I remind myself of it.。
But then it's still tiring to do it every day, right?。
We always forget and we always end up back in the same place.。
How did John do it?。
How did John maintain that level of humility?。
It's in a little bit later, and I don't think it's on the slides here.。
Verse 29, it says, "The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him。
and he said, 'Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.'"。
You see, I think this gives us a clue as to how John the Baptist remained humble.。
His eyes were focused on Jesus.。
When he walked into a place where he saw Jesus,。
instead of saying, "Behold, I, John the Baptist,"。
he said, "Behold, the Lamb of God."。
His eyes were constantly focused on Jesus.。
See, the way we battle pride, the way we battle insecurity,。
is genuinely to think of ourselves less.。
Whichever way you're coming from,。
is to know your own identity, to know your own limits,。
and to let go and stop saying, "Behold, I, look at me,"。
or, "Don't look at me."。
No, let both of those sides go.。
Just behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world.。
When we commit, devote to simply keeping our eyes turned to Jesus,。
then we will be free from the pride.。
Then we will be free from the insecurity.。
Then we will know our own identity.。
Then we will know our own limits.。
So whether you are puffing yourself up or beating yourself up,。
the goal is to let go and to behold and look at Jesus.。
So the first thing, know your own identity.。
The second thing, know your own limits.。
The final thing, know your purpose.。
We see in chapter one again, verse 23, he says,。
"I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness,。
"make straight the way of the Lord."。
He roots his answer in scripture.。
Verse 31, he says, "I myself did not know him,。
"but for this purpose I came, for this purpose I came,。
"baptising with water that he might be revealed to Israel."。
See, if we are to become emotionally healthy,。
not only do we need to know who we are,。
but not only do we need to know what our limits are,。
we also need to know why we are here.。
So that question that the Jews asked John,。
"Who are you and what's your business here?"。
That is the same question that the world is asking us.。
Who are you and what are you doing here?。
And so for us, we need to know the answer to that.。
We need to know what we were called for.。
And John himself said, "I am the voice of the one crying out in the wilderness,。
"making straight the way of the Lord."。
You see, back then, ancient royalty, whenever they went to visit a town,。
they would actually send someone ahead of them。
to make straight the path, to basically get rid of any obstacles.。
If there was a wild ox just blocking the path,。
it was that person's job to get rid of it before the royalty comes.。
And what John is saying here, "Hey, if this is what I'm here to do,。
"Jesus is on his way, the Messiah is on his way.。
"My job is to make sure his road is clear."。
Where's the Messiah heading?。
The Messiah is heading into our hearts.。
It is heading into your heart, my heart.。
What is John's role, as he sees here?。
John is saying, "In order for the Messiah to head into your heart,。
"I need to tell you about him and so you repent."。
The preparation for this Messiah is repentance.。
And he's saying, "I'm here just to prepare that。
"so that Jesus can be the one that walks straight into your heart, not me."。
Jesus, "Not me, because I'm not even allowed to be his slave.。
"I'm not even good enough to be his slave."。
But it's Jesus.。
And so for us, we also need to know our purpose.。
How do we know our purpose?。
Isn't that the question of the day?。
What am I here for?。
I mean, one of the best-selling books, Christian books of all time,。
is "Purpose Driven Life."。
And so we're looking for that purpose, right?。
We're looking, "Why, God, did you make me?"。
But then maybe the question isn't a wrong question,。
but maybe the angle that we're approaching it is wrong.。
When we're looking to God and going, "Why did you make me?"。
What are we really making it about?。
We're actually still making it about us.。
"Great Almighty God, King of the heavens, why did you make me?"。
As if it's all about us.。
But in order for us to truly know our purpose,。
maybe we twist it around a little bit.。
In order to find out what we are created for,。
our goal may simply be to find out the Creator.。
If a creation wants to find out what it's created for,。
then know the Creator.。
And there only really is one purpose and one call.。
Psalm 27 says this, "There's only one thing I'm after."。
What's the one thing I'm after?。
To dwell in God's presence.。
To gaze upon His beauty, to inquire in His temple, to glorify Him.。
That's the main calling.。
It's almost the only calling.。
All the other callings are simply expressions of that one.。
To know Him and be known, to love Him and be loved.。
And we need to stop making it about us.。
We need to stop making it about,。
"My purpose is still for me to find satisfaction."。
Even a righteous one that sounds spiritual and sound holy,。
but it's still about me.。
And I wonder whether there are any of us like that.。
I search my heart as I'm asking God, "What do you want me to do?"。
So often I realize, God just turning back to me,。
"James, it's cute that you ask that, but it's not really about you.。
It's about me.。
It's about how big I am, not what you can do.。
It's about what I've done, not what you're about to do.。
But it's cute that you ask it."。
But I wonder, even for those of us who are well-meaning,。
are we committed to knowing the Creator Himself,。
recognizing that He's the end goal, He's the destination,。
rather than going to Him just to find out what we were made for?。
Sometimes we feel as though He's sitting on a desk somewhere。
and we're just all queuing up, waiting to see Him,。
just for Him to give us a piece of paper to tell us what we're supposed to do.。
But no, that's not the purpose, that's not the goal.。
The goal is simply to behold Him, to know who He is.。
And in that, we will find our purpose.。
So we need to know our own identity, we need to know our own limits,。
and we need to know our purpose, the ultimate purpose。
of being loved by Him and to love others.。
That is the key here.。
And that is how, really, an aspect of how we achieve humility.。
And I want to finish with this, and again, it's later on in Chapter 3,。
there's another passage that, in these four verses,。
it sums up everything about John in these four verses.。
And I want to finish with that because it hammers home。
all of the aspects that we've just been looking at.。
In Chapter 3, verse 27, and actually just before that,。
what's happening is John's disciples are having a discussion。
with other people about a ritual, about purification,。
and they're having a little argument.。
And then they go to John, their rabbi, and say,。
"Rabbi, you know that guy from the other day?"。
Brackets, Jesus, the Messiah, the Lamb of God.。
"He's baptising a whole ton of people, and people are going to him.。
Do you recognise that our stall is now getting quieter and quieter?。
The forecast does not look good for our business.。
It's not going the way that we want it to if we're trying to promote ourselves.。
What do you want us to do?"。
is basically what they're asking, because they still don't get it.。
They've put their lives following John,。
and they're hoping that this reaps success.。
Their investment will end up multiplying,。
and they'll gain in at least significance.。
What they're seeing is everyone's going over there, to that guy,。
and he's not even wearing camel's hair.。
And so they turn to him and ask him this question,。
and what does he say?。
Verse 27, he replies, and he says,。
"A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven."。
And he's saying, "Do you not realise that everything I have,。
everything that we're even doing here, comes from him?。
That he's the main attraction here?。
Do you not realise that?"。
You see, when we realise that everything that we have comes from him,。
then you know what that does?。
That stops us from envying.。
That stops us from being jealous, because we're like,。
"Whoa, we had nothing to begin with, and yet God's given us this,。
so we don't need to look anywhere else, let alone to the Saviour of the world."。
John, again, knew who he was, and knew who he's not,。
and knew what he was here for.。
Do you not understand that everything we have is because of him?。
The fact that you even have life, oxygen, a brain,。
to be able to say these words to me, comes from him.。
So humble yourself, let go.。
It's not about us, it's about him.。
And then he carries on, he says, verse 28, he says,。
"You yourselves bear witness that I said, 'I am not the Christ,'。
but I've been sent before him."。
He's like, "You were there when I said the other day。
that I am not the Christ, so you shouldn't be following me。
because you think I'm the Christ, or a prophet, or Elijah.。
You know who I am, I'm simply a voice.。
I'm not even allowed to assign myself a body,。
I'm not even that important, I'm just a voice crying out in the wilderness,。
'Make straight the way of the Lord.'"。
Realise who I am, and who I am not.。
No trace of envy, no trace of bitterness.。
He's embraced a descent into being anonymous,。
and he's completely okay with it.。
This courageous, loud, brash guy is ready to be known by no one.。
That is humility.。
And then he carries on, verse 29,。
"The one who has the bride is the bridegroom.。
The friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him。
rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice.。
Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete."。
He's saying, "Look, if it's a wedding,。
I need you to know that I'm not the groom.。
I am actually simply a friend of the groom.。
Maybe best man, I don't know, I don't care.。
But I'm just a friend of the groom,。
and filled with happiness looking at this."。
A couple of months ago, I was at the honour and excitement。
of witnessing my own brother's wedding.。
And I remember the joy that I felt from, well,。
actually seeing him get married,。
because I never thought it would happen.。
And then, you know what, I remember just standing there,。
the pride I felt, the joy I felt,。
of just looking at him going, "Oh, we've made it.。
He's finally made it."。
And I remember that joy.。
I think back to my own wedding some 11 and a half years ago.。
I remember him standing there,。
and we had another friend standing there.。
I remember the smile on their faces when I was getting married.。
There's something about when it's not about you,。
where you naturally smile.。
Whereas the wedding couple themselves,。
sometimes they're just forced to smile for the whole day,。
because they're supposed to.。
But when it's not about you, you're always free,。
and I'm just like, "Oh, that is so amazing that this is happening,。
when it's not about you."。
And actually, what's even more special about that wedding。
a couple of months ago, was that it wasn't even about them.。
And that was the joy that came from it,。
was that it was about God.。
The whole wedding was pointing to God.。
It was two people in love, and actually often,。
the name Bridezilla comes from somewhere,。
and I won't say anymore,。
is couples getting married make the wedding all about themselves.。
And then it becomes a very stressful event for all those involved,。
especially the pastors trying to help them.。
And yet when you let go and just realise,。
"Oh my goodness, it's not even about me."。
This wedding is simply just to reflect。
the biggest wedding that is to come.。
The details of this banquet are nothing compared。
to what is going to be coming in the future.。
Then suddenly that burden is lifted off your shoulders.。
Suddenly, you're able to find that joy.。
That joy that you can't find whilst being a narcissist.。
Because, see it's interesting,。
the Kingdom of God is so subtle and so gentle and so gracious,。
it's that it hides these things in plain sight.。
And you're only able to attain them,。
only able to achieve them, when you let go.。
When you realise it's not about you, it's about Him.。
And that moment, John the Baptist realises,。
and then he says, "As the friend of the bridegroom,。
"the groom is now here, and I am rejoicing greatly,。
"therefore this joy of mine is now complete."。
Isn't that what we all want?。
That we get to say, "Our joy is complete."。
Isn't that it?。
Isn't that what we're all searching for?。
That true satisfaction from within.。
And being able to say, "It is complete."。
Where did that joy start from for John the Baptist?。
He started that when he was still in the womb.。
Remember when Mary goes to visit Elizabeth,。
and then suddenly John jumps in the womb out of joy?。
So even from before he was born,。
he knew his life, his identity, his limits,。
his purpose was to point to the Messiah,。
and finally the Messiah is now here.。
And because of that, his joy is complete.。
And the final words, "He must increase, I must decrease.。
"He must become greater, I must become less."。
When you realise who you are, when you realise who you're not,。
you realise you can find true joy,。
and at that moment you no longer have to strive for things。
the way the people in this world do.。
You can let go, and then you can find that true joy.。
But that's a rare trait to have,。
to genuinely be able to say, "He must increase, I must decrease."。
If only us pastors, if only bankers, if only doctors,。
if only all of us would commit to saying that together.。
It's not about us, it's about Him.。
There's going to come a day when Jesus returns.。
Our job is to make straight the way of the Lord,。
to lead people to Him, to show them how much they are loved,。
to be His hands and feet, recognising the head is coming back.。
And in that, we will find joy, and in that, they will find joy.。
That impacts the way you live, if you truly understand that.。
Instead of walking into a setting, a gathering,。
which we're doing less and less of these days,。
and saying, "Behold, I, James, have arrived."。
Or instead of thinking, "Do I want to be here even at this?。
"Do I even want to be here at this gathering?。
"Do I even want to see these people?。
"Do I even want to do this?"。
The question then ends up flipping, once we get the right mindset.。
It becomes, not whether I want to be here, is God here?。
Because if God's here, then I want to be here.。
Because it's not about me, it's about Him.。
And when we do that, when we find that true humility,。
that is when we're on the road to being emotionally healthy.。
When we do that as a body, together.。
Can you imagine all of us doing that?。
Laying aside our own preferences for human beings,。
laying aside our own preferences for friends,。
and for social gatherings, for jobs even,。
for anything that we do in this world.。
If all of us, as a body of Christ, all laid down and saying,。
"It's not about us, it's about Him."。
Wouldn't that change the way of the world?。
Wouldn't that turn the world upside down?。
And isn't that what we are called to do?。
How attractive would we be as a body of Christ?。
How beautiful a bride would we be,。
if we were all able to have that kind of mindset?。
And that is what we commit to doing.。
Saying, being that body that cries out,。
"It's not about us, it's not about me, it's about Him."。
All of it is about Him.。
From the beginning to the end, it's about Him.。
May that be our heart's cry,。
especially as we navigate these times in this city.。
Let's pray.。
So Lord, we thank you again for this reminder。
that it is all about you.。
That everything that we have and everything that we are。
all comes from you.。
Lord, you are the cornerstone.。
We are simply just the earth's stones lying around,。
but we'll only find out who we are in reference to you.。
So I pray, Lord.。
I pray for the emotional health of our church.。
I pray for the emotional health of each member of this church.。
Lord, that we would start on that road to being emotionally healthy。
through humbling ourselves.。
Would you be gracious to us and let us understand what true humility is?。
Would you show us where we dropped our identity cards?。
Would you remind us who we are?。
And then Lord, would you also remind us of our limits,。
how we fall short?。
But recognising that's okay,。
because your power is made perfect in our weaknesses.。
And Lord, then as we come face to face with you, our creator,。
can you tell us what you have created us for?。
But not for our own fulfilment, not for our own satisfaction,。
but for you, Lord.。
Everything, everything is about you.。
You must become greater.。
We must become less.。
You must increase.。
We must decrease.。
It's not about us.。
It's all about you.。
We thank you that that is the truth that we can hold on to today.。
In your name we pray.。
Amen.。
you。
