(silence)。
- Jesus, you are the one that we live for.。
This month, we remember the day that you invaded earth,。
and then you ended up defeating death.。
And we're also looking forward。
to the day that you come again.。
But so during this month,。
we pray that as we enjoy the Christmas festivities,。
the gifts that come, Lord, that our eyes。
will never be taken away from you.。
And Lord, that we will use this season。
to really draw closer to who you are,。
to have a better understanding of you.。
Lord, this book, this Bible tells us so much about you,。
but we pray that it will stay in our heads。
and drop into our hearts, Lord,。
as we explore why this season,。
what is the reason for this season,。
and why are you the reason?。
So we pray that your spirit will be with us,。
even in the Zoom arena, Lord,。
may you speak into our hearts here.。
In Jesus, in your name we pray, amen.。
So the book of Isaiah is where we're jumping to.。
Isaiah chapter nine, if you'd like to turn to it,。
but we're actually gonna, this is in some ways,。
I guess you could say topical,。
in that we're only gonna be focusing on one name today,。
which is wonderful counselor.。
And so that's from Isaiah chapter nine, verse six.。
And I wanted to read it to you first,。
and then I wanted to kind of really go still further。
into the one that we're looking at today.。
So Isaiah chapter nine, verse six says this,。
for to us a child is born, to us a son is given,。
and the government shall be upon his shoulder,。
and his name shall be called wonderful counselor,。
mighty God, everlasting father, prince of peace.。
And we've heard those terms before,。
and over these next few weeks,。
we're actually gonna be going through。
these four names of Jesus,。
mighty, wonderful counselor, mighty God,。
everlasting father, and prince of peace.。
And so I wanted to give us a bit of context,。
'cause we've heard this verse before,。
there are songs written about this verse,。
we know those names, but just to see where it comes from,。
I wanna rewind a little bit to Isaiah chapter seven.。
Isaiah chapter seven is where we hear。
about the name Emmanuel, chapter seven, verse 14.。
So the Lord is speaking to the King of Judah。
at that moment, Ahaz, and he says this,。
therefore, the Lord himself will give you a sign.。
Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son。
and shall call his name Emmanuel.。
We later see in scripture, what does Emmanuel mean?。
Emmanuel means God with us.。
So what he's saying here is that soon,。
I'll send you a sign, and the person that will come。
will come from a virgin,。
and his name will be called Emmanuel.。
And Isaiah chapter eight,。
so we're gearing up to chapter nine,。
chapter eight, the Lord is talking to him。
about an invasion that's coming.。
The Assyrians are coming, a very, very powerful nation,。
and there is gonna be a gloom that comes over Judah.。
And they will, in eight, verse 22,。
and they will be driven, they will be driven into darkness,。
and they will be thrust into thick darkness.。
So imagine this group of people that hear this from God,。
that I'm gonna give you someone,。
it's gonna be someone that's gonna be born of a virgin,。
that sounds ludicrous to start with,。
and he's gonna be called Emmanuel,。
which means God with us, so God's gonna be with you,。
but you will also be driven into darkness,。
that there's a group of people。
that's gonna come and invade you, and you will be suppressed.。
Can you imagine living in that kind of,。
with that kind of forecast?。
And then Isaiah nine happens,。
and Isaiah nine says this, you will be in darkness,。
and that's where verse two, what the video was showing,。
the people who walked in darkness have seen a great light,。
saying, you will be in darkness,。
but you will soon see a great light.。
Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness,。
on them a light has shone.。
And then you fast forward,。
and it talks about what this light is,。
nine, chapter six, chapter nine, verse six, sorry,。
for to us a child is born, to us a son is given,。
and the government shall be upon his shoulder,。
and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor,。
Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.。
And you see, the prophet Isaiah lived about 700 to 800 years。
before Jesus actually came.。
So he was a prophesying, he was giving this vision。
that this Jesus was coming,。
but Jesus doesn't come yet for a while longer,。
so actually the people hearing this。
didn't get to see Jesus, but we do.。
And so for us, as we're looking at this passage,。
and we're thinking about what does it mean to us。
that Jesus is the Wonderful Counselor,。
I invite you to really think,。
to actually remove our modern day。
contemporary interpretations of Wonderful and Counselor,。
and look at it, what does it really mean。
when scripture is talking about,。
when the prophet Isaiah is talking about it,。
and I wanna tackle it word by word.。
The first word, of course, is wonderful.。
We say this word all the time, right?。
Do you use the word wonderful?。
Let's have a look.。
Some people do.。
Can I get a little hands up if you use the,。
if you find yourself, are you someone。
who uses the word wonderful?。
Put your hand up, oh yes.。
Okay, some people, some people don't.。
I find it's probably the more posh people。
who like to use the word wonderful.。
I use the word wonderful.。
I like it, but there's nothing wonderful。
in 2020 though, of course.。
But have you ever thought about。
how you use the word wonderful?。
Oh, you know, that was a, you know what?。
That was a wonderful meal.。
Oh, the light decorations are really wonderful.。
He is just a wonderful person.。
What a wonderful preacher.。
And so we use it in that kind of term, right?。
And what it means is just,。
the way we use it is kind of like,。
oh, that's just a very nice thing.。
But is Jesus just a very nice thing?。
He's not, actually.。
The Hebrew word is palah,。
which actually has a much stronger one.。
I think I just saw Anthony talk about this.。
It is to be filled with wonder.。
It is, what it actually means is a phenomenon。
lying outside of the realm of human explanation.。
So just stop thinking about the word wonderful。
and just think about the word wonder.。
That makes more sense.。
Actually, that's more accurate to its original meaning.。
Wonder is, wow.。
So what he's saying here is that Jesus is a wonder。
of a counselor.。
It is supernatural.。
It is beyond, it is beyond the realm of human explanation.。
And I wonder whether we actually see Jesus like that。
or whether we see Jesus in the more contemporary way。
of saying, he's a wonderful guy.。
He was just a standup chap.。
He was just a good guy.。
No, Jesus is the wonderful counselor.。
He was full of wonder.。
He was a wonder of a counselor.。
And today I wanted to share with you some thoughts about it.。
And you guys know I always have three points,。
but I didn't go with slides this time。
because I've been doing homeschooling.。
Well, Christina does most of the homeschooling with Ruben,。
but we've been using a whiteboard。
and I thought it would be nice。
to actually have it on the whiteboard.。
But of course my handwriting isn't the best.。
So it is definitely not a wonderful handwriting.。
Wow, wonderful.。
What a great word, five-line email.。
So wonderful counselor.。
And there's three things I wanna share with you。
about wonderful counselor.。
I don't know if you can read my writing.。
The first one is, can anyone read that?。
Type it if you can read it.。
Let me see if anyone can read it.。
Handwriting is good.。
Oh, thank you, Agnes.。
Thank you, incomprehensible.。
The first word I wanted to share。
is that Jesus as wonderful counselor is incomprehensible.。
Second word is incredible.。
And the third word is inspiring.。
So I wanted to go through all of these。
to help us really get an idea of understanding。
what it really means that Jesus is the wonderful counselor.。
So the first word, incomprehensible.。
Jesus is hard to understand.。
Jesus is, the concept of God is hard to understand.。
It's a mystery to us.。
Psalm 139 talks about this,。
that there's such knowledge that is too wonderful for me.。
It is high, I cannot attain it.。
It's something that's beyond explanation.。
It's something that you can't actually explain.。
It's not of this world.。
So Jesus isn't of this world,。
but have you ever tried to use worldly terms。
to describe Jesus?。
I mean, that's the only tool that we have, right?。
And so then you see the apostle John。
seeing very worldly things, sorry, supernatural things,。
and he's forced to write them down。
and you read Revelation and you're like,。
we're natural beings trying to understand。
a supernatural God,。
recognizing that his thoughts and his ways。
are so much higher than ours.。
But so often we try and box them into。
what we try and understand.。
And that's where the problem comes.。
And we get discouraged or disappointed,。
or we even don't believe when we don't understand this God.。
I'm seeing a chat.。
Oh, so, you know, there's this idea of,。
we often try to understand God,。
but it's really just the same as like Harry Potter。
trying to understand J.K. Rowling.。
J.K. Rowling is the author of the Harry Potter series.。
Harry Potter is never gonna understand J.K. Rowling。
because they exist in a different realm, right?。
The star of this book, of this story, Harry,。
is never gonna understand the author.。
They exist in very different realms.。
So just the same as us and God,。
we exist in very different realms.。
When I try to talk to Walter, my dog,。
he doesn't understand the concepts。
that I'm trying to describe to him.。
Forget Walter, my daughter, who's three years old,。
struggles to understand some of the concepts。
that I'm giving her.。
For example, even for her,。
for a young human being like Alicia,。
who's three years old,。
she doesn't understand the concept of time.。
Well, at least she thinks she does, but she doesn't.。
One day we were catching the minibus。
and I was trying to keep her quiet and shut her up,。
so I gave her a candy and I said,。
"You're allowed to have this sweet in five minutes."。
Now I said it, 'cause that buys me time,。
and I said it in Cantonese,。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And so she was like, "Okay."。
And then what did she do?。
She said, (speaking in foreign language)。
"Okay."。
And so she didn't even understand the concept。
of waiting five minutes.。
Of course, she's a young girl, but do you get it?。
So if we as humans struggle to portray。
and present concepts to each other,。
how can we even understand the things of God?。
The things of God are so much higher.。
And I lead Bible studies and I meet different people,。
very smart people, and atheists,。
and they ask me these questions about God,。
and sometimes I can answer them and sometimes I can't.。
But do you understand that we're natural beings。
trying to describe a supernatural God.。
He is incomprehensible.。
Christ, though, is the wisdom and power of God.。
He is the mystery of God revealed.。
See, it is a mystery to us.。
For now, we only know in part,。
but soon we will know in full.。
You see, the job for us isn't。
to make sense of God right now, because we're not God.。
Actually, I would be very worried。
if you say you believe in a God。
that you completely understand, right?。
'Cause therefore, is it really God or are you God?。
So there's this idea that we have to try。
and understand everything.。
And actually we have this very noble and righteous pursuit,。
which is called theology.。
But the aim of theology is not to be able to find out。
all that we can about God,。
but rather to live out all we can with what we know.。
See, when we accumulate knowledge,。
it's not about trying to find out everything we can,。
but it is to live out all we can with what we know.。
So when we're thinking about God and Jesus。
as the wonderful counselor,。
we have to recognize when he says wonderful,。
he is a wonder of a counselor.。
He is a supernatural thing.。
We can't comprehend Jesus fully,。
but we don't have to,。
because you don't need to understand。
and know every single thing about how God works。
to be able to believe in God.。
It was John Wesley who said something famous,。
which was, "You don't need a complete understanding。
"of electricity to be able to experience。
"the practical benefits of using it."。
You don't need to understand exactly how currents。
and voltages and wires and all these things work.。
You just actually simply need to know where the switch is。
to switch the lights on.。
So it's the same idea,。
but we first have to understand。
when Jesus is the wonderful counselor,。
we're recognizing that his thoughts are higher than ours,。
his ways are higher than ours.。
It is too wonderful for me.。
We cannot attain it.。
It is beyond explanation.。
For now, we only know in part.。
And that is the beginning of our journey。
of being able to put our trust in him.。
So that's the first one.。
The second one is incredible.。
And I realized this about incredible。
is that I think I've gotten the meaning of incredible。
wrong over the years, just like wonderful.。
So when I say, "Oh, that was incredible."。
To be fair, I use it in the same way.。
That was an incredible meal.。
That was an incredible time together.。
Incredible, incredible.。
What does incredible mean?。
Incredible means something that is hard to believe.。
Because if you take away the word in,。
then it's like, is that a credible source?。
Credible.。
So is it something that can be believed?。
But it's incredible, which means it's hard to believe.。
So not only is Jesus, the wonderful counselor,。
hard to understand, it is also hard to believe.。
Why?。
Isaiah 7 says, "A virgin will be giving birth."。
Isn't that hard to believe?。
It is otherworldly to even present that.。
Those who are living in deep darkness get to see light.。
And then Isaiah chapter nine, verse three,。
he carries on, "You have multiplied the nation.。
You have increased its joy."。
Wait, what are you talking about?。
We're being suppressed by the Assyrians.。
How can we be multiplied as a nation?。
And how can we increase in our joy?。
It's hard to believe.。
It's incredible.。
It's incredible.。
And then furthermore, verse six,。
"For to us, a child is born."。
God, we're needing rescuing,。
and you're going to send us a child.。
Like for real, you're not going to send us Achilles。
or a Goliath kind of sized man.。
You're going to send us a child,。
and the government is going to be on the shoulders。
of this child.。
And this child is going to be born.。
Like, why don't you just come as a fully grown warrior?。
It's hard to believe.。
It doesn't make sense.。
It's incomprehensible, and it's incredible.。
And this child is going to be born.。
So this savior of ours is going to come from within our ranks.。
It's going to come from the human race.。
See, this tells me something about humanity, actually,。
that the savior chose to come into this world,。
being born, shows that Jesus,。
the wonderful counselor, is fully human.。
Do you ever say this whenever you make a mistake?。
You say, "Oh, you know what?。
"I'm only human."。
Have you ever said that?。
When you make a mistake or you do something right?。
"You know what?。
"Put my hands up.。
"I'm only human."。
You see, that is incorrect,。
because it's not because we're human that we have flaws.。
It's because we have fallen.。
See, Jesus was fully human, but he didn't have any flaws.。
He was fully human and fully God.。
We were created, the original design for us。
was that we would be perfect like God.。
We were made in the image of God.。
So we make mistakes, not because we're human,。
but because we are fallen.。
And there's a slight difference there.。
And Jesus embodied the two.。
He is fully human and fully God.。
And for those of you who are basketball fans,。
maybe Johnny is the only one who,。
"Yeah, we're a fallen human."。
You're right.。
It's not the human part that's actually the problem.。
It's the fallen part is the problem.。
We actually have the capacity.。
Jesus has shown us that if we allow him。
to live in our lives, he's shown us。
that a fully human person can be perfect.。
Basketball fans, Johnny will know,。
there's a guy who was probably the best dunker。
of all time, Vince Carter.。
And he was described as half man, half amazing.。
But we have here a God, a wonderful counselor。
who is fully man and fully God.。
Fully man, but fully perfect.。
Isn't that incredible?。
Isn't that hard to believe?。
Later on.。
So a child is born and then a son is given.。
A son is, it's a gift.。
So Jesus is a gift to us.。
Like, why do we deserve a gift?。
It's hard to believe.。
What God sacrificed his son for us.。
John 3, 16, God still loved the world。
and he gave his only son for us.。
Are you kidding me?。
That is incredible.。
That is hard to believe.。
Why would he do that?。
And why would the son be willing to do that?。
Why would this son who was the beginning,。
he was the beginning, he was the word.。
Why did the son choose to become flesh。
and dwell among us?。
Jesus, the wonderful counselor is incomprehensible.。
He's hard to understand.。
He's incredible.。
He's hard to believe.。
And finally, he's hard to ignore.。
If you come face to face with this wonder of a counselor,。
you should be filled with awe.。
You should be filled with wonder.。
So my question to you is this,。
for those of you who profess to know Jesus,。
are you still filled with awe and wonder?。
There's a favorite song of mine.。
I think it's by Bethel.。
It's called "Wonder."。
And the words that repeats over and again,。
may we never lose our wonder of Jesus.。
We get so used to the Christmas lights,。
Advent's coming, oh, it's nice.。
We get to do all these things.。
We get to buy each other presents.。
It gets cold.。
We get to go ice skating and all these things.。
But let us never lose our wonder。
and our awe for this coming King.。
He is the wonderful counselor.。
He is the wonder of a counselor.。
And we've only just finished in Revelation,。
but if you go to Revelation,。
and if you imagine yourself。
in the eyes of the Apostle John,。
seeing this Jesus in Revelation 1,。
you will be filled with awe and wonder and shock.。
If you go fast forward to Revelation 4,。
you see him sat on his throne。
with the 24 elders knelt before him,。
with the creatures that have eyes all over their bodies,。
that whole scene and all of them just worshiping him.。
But sometimes we think Jesus is just that guy。
who's with us when we're queuing for our lunch.。
And he's just a nice guy.。
He's not just a nice guy.。
He is a wonderful counselor.。
He is a wonder of a counselor.。
He is incomprehensible.。
He is incredible.。
And he is inspiring.。
Those elders that were,。
that are knelt before his throne in Revelation 4,。
they are just bowed down, worshiping him.。
Are we filled with that same kind of wonder?。
And does it inspire us to live in a different way?。
Just like nature inspires artists to paint。
or poets to write or composers to compose.。
When we are face to face with Jesus,。
the Jesus who we're celebrating this Christmas,。
are we filled with wonder?。
And does it inspire us to live in a different way?。
Does Jesus still fill you with wonder?。
Has he ever filled you with wonder?。
Because I wonder if he's never filled you with wonder,。
I've got a feeling that you may not。
have met him properly yet.。
You see, it's very important for us to still be filled.。
We should be afraid.。
We should be very afraid of this supernatural,。
incomprehensible, incredible King.。
And yet sometimes, especially for those of us。
who maybe have been a Christian for a long time,。
we just, we get used to Jesus.。
He's the Jesus that we keep in our back pocket,。
that we bring him out whenever we need some help.。
But he is the wonder of a counselor.。
He is awe inspiring.。
He is otherworldly.。
He brings you to your knees.。
If you, imagine if you saw Jesus.。
Imagine if you just saw your greatest idol,。
your hero from childhood or your hero now,。
and you're starstruck and you're like,。
oh my goodness, this person is actually here.。
This person that I've only ever watched on TV。
or read their books, they're actually here.。
Can you imagine that just excitement that you have?。
Everyone think of that person that you would love to meet.。
And you finally see them.。
Can you imagine the awe and wonder。
that will be filled in your heart?。
Do you have the same about Jesus?。
Or have we sold him short。
and we have we forgotten about his glory?。
Because of his humility, because of him emptying himself,。
because of him choosing to leave heaven's throne,。
to come into the earth as a baby,。
to be a child, to be born,。
have we forgotten about his glory?。
He is the wonderful counselor and he deserves to be praised.。
And even if we don't, can you imagine even the rocks,。
that's what scripture says, even the rocks will cry out.。
So how much should you be filled with wonder。
when you look at this coming King?。
Jesus is the wonderful counselor.。
Those are my three points.。
And the final thing is here, the word counselor.。
And again, I'm challenging。
our modern day interpretation of the word.。
You see, when we think about counselor now,。
we think about someone who's super nice,。
sitting there asking us nice questions and listening to us。
and processing whatever we have inside us.。
But actually when the prophet Isaiah。
was writing this word counselor,。
it meant a very different thing.。
Counselor back then was someone who gives counsel,。
who rules, a King.。
So if you were to actually translate that word。
into its more accurate meaning,。
the wonderful counselor is a wonder of a King,。
a supernatural King.。
And suddenly that term just completely turns,。
that you recognize that this King is not of this world,。
that in him, Colossians 2,。
in him all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge。
are found in Jesus.。
Jesus is the counselor。
as he sits in the high council of the Godhead.。
As he looks down at you and he recognizes。
that you are a sinner, that you need to be saved,。
that within their Godhead,。
they decide it is right for Jesus。
to step away from his throne,。
to be born in a manger so that he could save you.。
You see, this world is currently very much lacking in wisdom。
and wouldn't you agree that we would love。
to have more of this wonderful counselor in our lives?。
This King who rules with love and kindness。
instead of maybe the way our leaders lead today.。
Have a think now, if Jesus was the ruler of this city,。
of this country or of this world,。
in whichever country you're from,。
how would things look different?。
Jesus stands for very different things。
because he is not of this world.。
And he calls us to the same thing.。
So imagine, and you know that verse there,。
Isaiah 9, verse 6,。
"For to us a child is born, a son is given,。
and the governments will be on his shoulders."。
Can you imagine a world。
where the governments will be on the shoulders。
of this wonderful counselor?。
Dream with me just for a second。
as our world seemingly crumbles around.。
Can you imagine what our world would look like。
if this child that is born, this son that is given,。
the government shall be upon his shoulders?。
What would it look like?。
Leaders may stop dealing in half truths, compromises,。
because Jesus declares and deals with complete truth.。
Leaders will stop looking to see what they can get。
from the people they're leading。
because Jesus chose to give to the people that he's leading.。
Leaders will look to be stopped to being just served,。
but will start serving those they're leading.。
Jesus will, leaders who are looking。
to build their own empire will stop。
because Jesus chose to wash people's feet.。
Jesus turns things upside down.。
Leaders that get more inaccessible。
as they get higher up in society.。
If their government was on the shoulders of Jesus,。
Jesus was Emmanuel, God with us,。
accessible to every human being,。
young and old, sinner or saint.。
Jesus was God with us.。
Earthly leaders look for prominence.。
Jesus sought to be anonymous.。
See, Jesus right now is clearly not in charge。
of the halls of Washington and London and Moscow.。
So how can we ever believe in a government。
that will be on his shoulders?。
Doesn't seem feasible.。
It seems incomprehensible.。
It seems incredible.。
But Jesus isn't seeking to take over an earthly kingdom.。
His kingdom isn't of this world.。
He doesn't desire to control the powers of this world.。
He was already tempted with that by the enemy.。
He didn't want it.。
Jesus' desire is for his kingdom to rule in your heart.。
Jesus doesn't desire to govern institutions.。
Jesus desires individuals,。
individuals like you and I.。
So I want you to ask as I finish now,。
is Jesus the ruler of your life?。
Do you seek counsel from him?。
Is he the king that is ruling over your life?。
And your concept of Jesus, your perspective,。
or your perception of Jesus,。
is it one that is like,。
Jesus, you are so high and above, I can't,。
you blow my mind.。
You are that incomprehensible.。
And it is so hard to believe。
that you would be born of a virgin,。
that you would be God's own son,。
sacrificing his life for me.。
It doesn't make sense.。
Yet are you inspired by this picture of Jesus。
to change your life, to submit to him,。
to submit to his rule, because he is worth it.。
Why?。
Because he showed you and I the greatest love。
that one could ever show.。
A king, the prince of peace。
that we can see later on in this passage,。
he chose to sacrifice himself to rescue you.。
And this Christmas, not only are we celebrating the advent,。
the coming of baby Jesus,。
we are also celebrating the fact。
that this baby did not stay in the manger.。
He also did not stay in the grave.。
And that he shed his blood for you and I.。
So it's very appropriate for us,。
and even in this evening, to be filled with that joy,。
that Christmas is coming, that we celebrate Jesus,。
that we get to be with family,。
that we get to just do all the things。
that we love in this season,。
and we can be filled with joy,。
but also be filled with gratefulness。
that this baby in a manger,。
that this son that was given,。
this child that was born,。
ended up sacrificing himself for us,。
and is now seated high on his throne。
as the wonderful counsellor,。
the wonder of a king,。
the supernatural ruler of this world.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
