(silence)。
Pastor Johnny is on his way back from Canada.。
And with no flights from Canada to Hong Kong。
until at least March the 4th,。
he has had to route via Abu Dhabi and now Thailand.。
At least we have him in the same time zone.。
Please pray for him.。
But today's topic is Sabbath.。
And you know, Hong Kong does not do this well.。
And I'll be honest, I do not do it well.。
That's why I need to preach this message。
because I am the one who needs to hear it.。
Pastor James touched on the gift of limits last week.。
And I wanna talk about the one thing。
that we all have a limitation on, which is time.。
Time is the one thing we cannot make any more of.。
You can't buy it, you can't sell it,。
you can't steal it, you can't trade it.。
There are 60 minutes in an hour, 24 hours in a day,。
seven days in a week.。
There will never be any more。
and there will never be any less.。
Because of that, we all have a tenuous relationship。
with time.。
I've mentioned already in this series,。
you go up to someone in Hong Kong and you say,。
"How are you?"。
What do they say?。
"I'm busy."。
And we are busy at work.。
And technology has only made it worse.。
We carry our office with us.。
Oh man, I hate these WhatsApps, I get 1145 at night.。
But also we're busy at play.。
Do you remember dinners?。
Yeah, Hong Kong apparently has 15,000 plus restaurants。
and many of us seem keen or working to try them all out.。
We can be so busy。
that we can lose our grip on life.。
We can lose our grip on joy, on peace.。
I don't know about you, I've actually appreciated。
this current quieter season.。
But you know, busyness does not equate。
to emotional health.。
Busyness gets past our schedule。
and into our personal state.。
Tonight, I'm gonna start a rebellion.。
Yeah, a rebellion against the prevailing Hong Kong culture.。
As Rafiki in "The Lion King" says,。
"It is time, enough is enough."。
And it all starts for us.。
In Genesis one, in the story of creation,。
Bonnie read it for us beautifully, I might add.。
She read this, "In the beginning,。
God created the heavens and the earth."。
And then 30 verses later, "And God saw everything he'd made。
and behold, it was very good.。
And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day."。
So there we have it, right?。
God has worked hard for six days。
to create the heavens and the earth,。
light and dark, sun, moon, stars, land, plant, seas,。
fish and birds, animals,。
and finally the pinnacle of his creation, humans.。
But look at what comes next.。
Chapter two, "Thus the heavens and the earth were finished。
and all the host of them.。
And on the seventh day,。
God finished his work that he had done.。
And he rested on the seventh day。
from all his work that he had done.。
So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy。
because on it, God rested from all his work。
that he had done in creation."。
God rested.。
Let that sink in.。
God himself rested.。
After six days of universe making work,。
God said, "That's enough."。
Now was God tired and needed a rest?。
Not at all.。
Actually, the Hebrew word for rested is Shabbat.。
From where we get Sabbath from.。
It means to rest, to cease, to be done.。
It almost conjures a picture of kicking back。
and looking at what's been done and saying,。
"Hey, hey, that's not a bad job."。
I mean, that moon was pretty neat.。
An alternative translation for Shabbat。
is to celebrate a day in the week that is set aside。
just to enjoy and to delight.。
And that's the same for us.。
You see, God worked for six days and rested for one.。
And in doing so,。
he built a rhythm into the fabric of creation.。
As human beings who are created in God's image,。
remember that from Genesis 1,。
we work for six days like God。
and we rest for the seventh, just like God did.。
Now notice two things in the story before we moved on.。
I've put verse three on the screen.。
Firstly, it says God blessed the seventh day.。
God blessed the seventh day.。
In Genesis 1 and 2, God blesses three things.。
He blesses animals, humans, and the Sabbath.。
Now he blessed animals and humans。
with a life-giving ability to procreate.。
Didn't he say, "Be fruitful, multiply and fill the earth."。
God blessed Adam and Eve.。
Then a few verses later, we read,。
"So God blessed the seventh day."。
What does that mean?。
It means that the Sabbath has a life-giving ability。
to fill the earth with more life.。
Let's be honest, life is tiring.。
Work no matter how much you love it, depletes your energy.。
Rest on the other hand, refills you with life.。
So yes, firstly, God blessed the seventh day.。
And then we read, "And then he made it holy."。
Now you might've heard about the law of first mention.。
It simply means that the very first time。
an important word or phrase is mentioned in Scripture。
is significant because the meaning behind。
that first mention often establishes a precedent。
or a pattern that could be seen。
throughout the rest of the Bible.。
The first mention almost always contains。
the most complete and accurate meaning of the word.。
This not only serves as a key to understanding。
the word's biblical concept,。
but it also provides a foundation for its fuller development。
in later parts of the Bible.。
And the first time, the first time in Scripture。
you read the word holy is right here.。
So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy.。
At the end of creating, God didn't build, make, inhabit。
a temple or a prayer mountain or a church or a cathedral.。
He made a day and he called it holy.。
I love this quote by Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel.。
He said this, "The Sabbaths are our great cathedrals."。
The Sabbath stands as an invitation。
from the creator to creation to work for six days。
just like God did and to rest for the seventh。
just like God did.。
When we don't do it, it can only lead。
to emotional unhealthiness, fatigue, lethargy,。
shutting down of our systems, feeling empty, disconnected.。
These are the results of life without Sabbath,。
which is why God goes on to command the Sabbath.。
If you could turn to Exodus 16,。
I'm gonna give you a picture.。
The Israelites are out in the desert.。
They're grumbling against God.。
They were anything but emotionally healthy.。
Let's read it.。
Then Moses said to Aaron,。
"Say to the whole congregation of the people of Israel,。
"come near before the Lord for he has heard your grumbling."。
And as soon as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation。
of the people of Israel, they looked towards the wilderness。
and behold, the glory of the Lord appeared in a cloud.。
And the Lord said to Moses,。
"I've heard the grumbling of the people of Israel.。
"Say to them, at twilight, you shall eat meat.。
"And in the morning, you shall be filled with bread.。
"Then shall you know that I am the Lord your God."。
In the evening, quail come up, very nice, eh?。
You get it these days in Michelin star restaurants.。
In the evening, quail came up and covered the camp.。
And in the morning, dew lay around the camp.。
And when the dew had gone up,。
there was on the face of the wilderness,。
a fine flake like thing, fine as the frost on the ground.。
When the people of Israel saw it, they said to another,。
what is it?。
Now the word in Hebrew for what is it is actually manna.。
So it's where they turned to each other and said, manna.。
For they did not know what it was.。
And Moses said to them,。
"It is the bread that the Lord has given you to eat."。
Yes, the manna was the bread that God had given to eat.。
And then we read from verse 21.。
Morning by morning, they gathered it,。
ate as much as he could eat.。
And when the sun grew hot, it melted.。
On the sixth day, they gathered twice as much bread,。
two omens each.。
And when all the leaders of the congregation。
came and told Moses, he said to them,。
this is what the Lord commanded.。
Tomorrow is a day of solemn rest,。
a holy Sabbath to the Lord.。
Tomorrow is a day of solemn rest,。
a day of Sabbath to the Lord.。
Now notice these words.。
Sabbath and holy.。
Sabbath is 100% linked with worship.。
Sabbath is more than just a day off.。
The questions we should ask ourselves。
of our Sabbath are these.。
Do I rest?。
And do I worship?。
Let's look at the next verse.。
This is getting quite interesting.。
He said, "Bake what you will bake。
and boil what you will boil,。
and all that is left over,。
lay aside to be kept to the morning."。
Now what this speaks about is preparing for a Sabbath.。
And with it for us, a challenge。
to actually get ready to rest。
and to get ready for worship.。
The apostle John called it a preparation day.。
Let's read on.。
I'm enjoying this.。
So they laid it aside till morning。
as Moses commanded them,。
and it did not stink for there were no worms in it.。
Praise God for that.。
And Moses said, "Eat it today,。
for today is a Sabbath to the Lord.。
Today you will not find it in the field.。
Six days you shall gather it,。
but on the seventh day, which is a Sabbath,。
there will be none."。
On the seventh day, some of the people,。
they didn't take notice.。
They went out to gather some, but they found none.。
And the Lord said to Moses,。
"How long?。
How long will you refuse to keep my commandments。
and my laws?。
See, the Lord has given you the Sabbath.。
Therefore, on the sixth day,。
he gives you bread for two days.。
Remain each of you in his place."。
Old Testament lockdown.。
Let no one go out of his place on the seventh day.。
So the people rested on the seventh day.。
I wanna just highlight here this expression.。
And the Lord said to Moses,。
"How long will you refuse to keep my commandments。
and my laws?。
See, the Lord has given you the Sabbath."。
Yes, the Sabbath is a command,。
but it is also a gift.。
Now I know what you're thinking.。
Pastor John, that's the Old Testament.。
Yeah, I know it's in the 10 commandments。
in Exodus 20,。
but I don't read very much about the commandment。
to Sabbath in the New Testament.。
It is indeed one of the 10 commandments.。
Interestingly, the one that has the most words。
than the other nine.。
But you would be right.。
There is no command to Sabbath in the New Testament.。
Listen carefully.。
You don't have to Sabbath,。
but it still stands as a gift from God.。
Look, there's no commandment to sleep eight hours a night,。
but if you wanna be emotionally healthy,。
burning the candles at both ends。
will not lead to emotional health.。
The point I'm trying to make is this.。
The Sabbath is a gift from God.。
But as mankind, we have repeatedly spurned this gift。
over the past thousand years ago.。
We think we know best.。
We know how to work.。
We know how to play,。
but we do not know how to worship.。
We do not know how to Sabbath,。
even, or should I say, especially in the church.。
And the reason for this is partially down to a misread。
of something that Jesus said in his life.。
It's found in Mark chapter two.。
Now in the gospels, the Sabbath seems to be a day。
for Jesus to get himself into trouble.。
Just read the gospels.。
You can see this time and time again.。
There was a reason for this.。
Mark 2, 23, "One Sabbath,。
he was going through the grain fields.。
And as they made their way,。
his disciples began to pluck heads of grain.。
And the Pharisees were saying to him,。
'Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath?'"。
You see what happened?。
The Pharisees had added so much to the law。
so that something that started out as good。
and the law was good,。
became a rod because of a hundreds of rules.。
The law had said, "You shall not work on the Sabbath."。
The Pharisees had taken it。
to mean you should not snack on a sweet corn.。
So Jesus replied, this verse is important.。
"And he said to him, 'The Sabbath was made for man,。
not man for the Sabbath.。
So the Son of Man is Lord, even of the Sabbath.'"。
This is an important verse.。
Jesus said, "Man wasn't created for the Sabbath."。
And the Pharisees needed to hear the second part of the verse.。
"The Sabbath was made for man, not man for Sabbath."。
But we are not Pharisees.。
I hope.。
But as I look at that verse again, in the light of 2022,。
21st century society needs to hear clearly。
these words again.。
"The Sabbath was made for man."。
"The Sabbath was made for man."。
We have the opposite problem to the Pharisees.。
It's not that we have a hundreds of rules about the Sabbath,。
we have none.。
To be honest, most of us don't even take a Sabbath.。
Now let's read over the page into chapter three.。
And as I said earlier, Sabbath seemed to be the time。
for Jesus to get himself into trouble。
with the religious authorities.。
Look at this.。
Again, he entered the synagogue。
and a man was there with a withered hand.。
And they watched Jesus to see whether he would heal。
on the Sabbath so they might accuse him.。
And he said to the man with the withered hand, "Come here."。
And he said to them, "Is it lawful on the Sabbath。
to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill?"。
But they were silent.。
As he looked around at them with anger,。
grieved at their hardness of heart,。
he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand."。
And his hand was restored.。
The Pharisees, true to form, went out。
and immediately held council with the Herodians against him,。
how to destroy him.。
Look again at the Gospels, read the Gospels.。
When do most of Jesus' healings take place?。
Yes, the Sabbath.。
Is that a coincidence?。
I don't think so.。
I believe that Jesus saw the Sabbath as a day for healing.。
We would do well to bear that in mind.。
Look, all I'm saying at this point is this.。
My friends, take a Sabbath.。
When, where, how, whatever works for you.。
But take a Sabbath.。
I'm gonna spend the rest of my time on a personal testimony.。
I said at the beginning,。
"I'm not there yet, this sermon is for me."。
And I certainly wasn't there 20 years ago.。
I was a general manager of an insurance company。
and helping to run a small but growing church。
as an elder and a preacher.。
Pretty flat out, I'm afraid.。
If I would say, "I'm busy," it was a reply,。
if you asked me how I was.。
Then I became a full-time pastor.。
This was my opportunity.。
Mondays became my Sabbaths.。
To be honest, I was often so worn out。
after ministering on Sundays.。
And I was really quite good.。
Mondays, I was uncontactable.。
I would even turn down lunches。
from famous speakers who'd come to Hong Kong。
'cause quite often they'd minister in Hong Kong。
on the weekend and then do a lunch on Monday.。
I still get calls from people who would say,。
"I know it's your day off, but."。
So I started first by muting the phone。
and then turning it off.。
I thought I was doing well。
until the 7th of June, 2019,。
the day that changed my life.。
I was in Israel in a place called Haifa。
as part of the team from KFCI.。
It was our first Friday, our first Shabbat.。
We knew things were gonna be slightly different。
when instead of pressing the button on the elevator,。
which apparently is classified as work,。
the elevator stops at every floor.。
The dining room at the Leonardo Plaza Hotel。
was set out differently that night.。
It was organised just for family groups。
and we were one of them.。
Then I met this wonderful guy in the picture.。
Sorry about my shirt, by the way. (laughs)。
He invited me to meet his family。
and they invited our group to join them。
and be part of their family for the Shabbat celebrations.。
Here he is with his son and part of our group.。
It's hard to describe the warmth, the love,。
the acceptance we received as we celebrated Shabbat together.。
We prayed blessings over each other。
and we took unleavened bread and wine together.。
We were so filled that when the family went,。
we took communion together, there's a picture here,。
to celebrate what we had experienced.。
And we did it again the following week,。
this time in Jerusalem.。
But what did I learn from Israel?。
It seemed to me a little bit like what we experience here。
with families during Chinese New Year, but every week.。
It's like doing Chinese New Year every Friday.。
I learned in Haifa that my Mondays, good as they were,。
had in reality been a day off rather than a Sabbath.。
I learned in Haifa that Sabbath was more than a day off.。
I found out in Haifa four elements。
that go up to making a Sabbath, Sabbath.。
I've put them on the screen.。
Sabbath equals stopping and resting。
and delighting and worship.。
I'll say that again, this is important.。
Sabbath is stopping and resting and delighting and worship.。
As I finish, may I just look briefly at each one.。
Firstly, stopping.。
We're invited to stop working,。
to stop thinking about working,。
to stop worrying, to stop wanting.。
The act of stopping means we trust in God.。
Resting, we're invited to both physical。
and emotional rest on the Sabbath.。
On this day, we release the illusion of control to God。
and know that he will keep us。
in the midst of the unfinished work.。
Rather like those Israels with the bread.。
Delighting, we are invited to a kind of resting。
that is a feast, a party and our celebration.。
Sabbath is all about creating space for delight.。
John Mark Comer says,。
"Sabbath is a day to feed our soul with beauty,。
"to rewire the pathways of our brain,。
"to rejoice in the Lord always."。
And lastly, worshipping.。
When we stop to rest and delight,。
it leads us to worship God.。
We find ourselves thanking God.。
Sabbath gives us a chance to be human again,。
to get our souls back again,。
to become emotionally healthy.。
I've no idea what it looks like for you.。
What constitutes rest and worship for you。
may be very different for what constitutes rest。
and worship for me.。
But what I do want to do is to encourage you to Sabbath.。
Reshape your life from top to bottom.。
And together, we can reshape our church。
and indeed our city.。
It is a pathway to emotional health,。
a pathway to life in God's present,。
a relief from busy, busy, busy, busy.。
And at the same time, discover life.。
Discover a God who made the universe。
as a place to be with these people。
and a place for us to be without God.。
As Brother Lawrence says,。
to practise the presence of God.。
Walter Brueggemann, widely considered。
one of the most influential scholars。
of the last several decades said this,。
"People who keep Sabbath live all seven days differently."。
Can I say it again?。
People who keep Sabbath live all seven days differently.。
My friend, it is not just 24 hours at the end of a week.。
It is a way of life.。
It is a way to live in God's presence all week long.。
When we Sabbath well, we stay in that spirit all week long.。
Even as we work, as we labour, we toil, we contend.。
That is what I want for you.。
My church family, my friends.。
Make a decision today。
to make this part of your life.。
My friends, there is a day that is blessed and holy.。
There is rhythm in your body and soul.。
There's rhythm in the universe.。
They're into place, work and rest.。
Maybe you are being called today, I know I am,。
to slow your life down,。
to tune into that rhythm.。
Maybe you have to change your lifestyle.。
I have a word of comfort for you.。
God is waiting for you there.。
I'm gonna ask James to come back。
and we're gonna sing a rather special song.。
We're gonna sing this song, Still.。
I wanna invite you wherever you are,。
if you're a computer at home。
and you're looking on the other screen。
or you're checking emails or sports results or anything,。
to put down everything you're doing.。
I'm gonna pray and we're gonna sing that song together.。
I will be still and know that you are God.。
You are God.。
That's our prayer as a church, surely,。
that we will be still and know that he is God.。
Let's pray.。
Father, I pray that you would calm the raging storm.。
Lord, when we read the newspaper headlines daily,。
there's so much going on in our world, in our city.。
I pray you'll give us time now just to focus on you.。
And Lord, that your spirit would speak to our spirit。
about the changes we need to make in our lives,。
in our church, in our city,。
to learn to do Sabbath.。
We thank you, Lord, you have a plan。
and a purpose for each one of us.。
You have a plan and a purpose for this church.。
Your hand is upon Hong Kong.。
Use this time tonight。
where the storms of life are raging。
to give us that peace in our heart tonight.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
(piano music)。
