Alright, how's everybody tonight?。
Excellent.。
Are you guys disgusted with life?。
This is apparently the topic that's been assigned to me.。
Today's topic is disgusted with life, Ezekiel chapter 2.。
And we've been talking about several main themes that sort of appear within this book.。
The first is vanity.。
Pastor Michelle talked about that, this word, habal.。
It's like she gave us this metaphor, we're just grasping for something, we're just grasping。
for air.。
And there's nothing, it's futile, it's lacking substance, pointlets.。
It's like the wind or vapor.。
And then Pastor John last week continued and explained more to us, right?。
That nothing seems to change.。
This life, what's good about it?。
Nothing seems to change.。
Nothing satisfies.。
Nothing is new under the sun.。
Everything, nothing is understood.。
There's vanity, it's pointless.。
There's no meaning.。
And then this concept of nothing new under the sun.。
This preacher, it's going through a discussion on how do I find meaning in life, in this。
life on earth.。
That's what it means.。
Nothing new under the sun.。
And he continues in chapter 2 and he talks about several things that we're gonna talk。
about tonight.。
And the first is pleasure is meaningless.。
Wisdom is meaningless.。
And work is meaningless.。
And Pastor, not Pastor, our administrator, Bonnie read to us.。
Yeah, future, future.。
There's meaning in this world.。
Bonnie read to us the scripture.。
And the first thing that the preacher talks about is behold, he goes through laughter.。
It's mad.。
Pleasure, what use is it?。
He searched for how to fill his heart with wine, right?。
And how, you know, he even tried foolishness, right?。
All these things.。
He tried experiences.。
He wanted to experience things in life.。
I work with a lot of young people, right?。
And these young people, they grow up and they want to experience life, right?。
They want to do the fun things.。
They want to do the maybe not so good things.。
They've all been there.。
They want to experience life.。
They want to experience pleasure, laughter, wine.。
This preacher talks about wine, maybe drunkenness.。
He wants to experience it.。
And then foolishness.。
He even tries foolishness.。
And I also really like experiences, especially sporting experiences.。
And this next picture, some of you might be in this picture, next picture after that.。
I was visiting UK before all this COVID stuff was happening.。
And I went to a Manchester United game.。
And then after that, I met up with Pastor John and we went to another game.。
And I was like, wow, this is such a great experiences.。
And on the way, we did some work.。
You know, we met up with some students.。
We had some tea.。
Yeah, yeah, yeah.。
We had such a great experience.。
You know, Pastor John took me to this game.。
It was a great experience.。
But what do I have at the end of it?。
What do I have at the end of it?。
My team lost Manchester United.。
They lost.。
I spent all this money to sit front row.。
Why are you cheering?。
We should be in the Chinese congregation.。
My team, I spent all this money to sit behind, not beside, behind the goalie, you know, front。
row.。
And my team lost.。
And there was, you know, the opposing team and they, you know, sort of fence off the。
opposing team and the home team.。
And the opposing team was like rattling the gate and everything and things were going。
crazy.。
You know, you know, Jesus was going to come soon, you know, like at that game, like it。
was, it was going to go bananas.。
My team lost.。
And then me and Pastor John went to this game.。
Fantastic time.。
What do we have to show for it?。
Maybe a photo of our great experience.。
Vanity.。
Pointless.。
That's what this preacher is saying.。
Experiences, they only last for a moment.。
He continues this preacher and says that he's done great works, great, great, amazing houses,。
gardens, fruit trees, pools, forests.。
Wow.。
Amazing.。
Can you imagine all these things?。
This is like Sim City, right?。
Just like maybe he was playing Sim City.。
You guys remember that game Sim City where you create a city, roller coasters, and maybe。
he was doing this game.。
But he also says that this is vanity.。
Accomplishments don't satisfy.。
Accomplishments don't satisfy.。
Back in Toronto, I competed for many years in this race.。
Have you guys heard of Amazing Race before?。
This is sort of called like a, within the city, it's called City Chase.。
And for many years, we competed.。
And for like the first couple years, we competed and we only came like third or fourth.。
And then we started finding the strategy of how to win.。
And we came in first like many years.。
And when I achieved that, I still remember, you know, my friend posted.。
He was like, "At last, all this hard work is worthwhile."。
And I remember texting my mom, "Hey, I came first."。
And she's like, "Love you.。
Proud of you."。
And I'm like, "Yeah, great.。
I'm first.。
Now what?。
Now what?"。
And you get first again and get first again.。
And now what?。
And then your bones and joints are, you know, tired and broken.。
Your body's broken.。
What next?。
Andre Agassi, eight-time Grand Slam tennis winner.。
He won the Wimbledon here.。
He still had long hair.。
And he says this, "Now that I've won a slam, I know something very few people on earth。
are permitted to know.。
A win doesn't feel as good as a loss feels bad.。
And the good feeling doesn't last long, as long as the bad, not even close.。
The goal line moved to achieving the number one ranking and lastly, the 1996 gold medal."。
Yet he never felt like it was enough.。
He says this, "I find it surreal, then perfectly normal.。
I'm struck by how fast the surreal becomes the norm.。
I marvel at how unexciting it is to be famous, how mundane famous people are.。
They're confused, uncertain, insecure, and often hate what they do.。
It's something we always hear, like the old adage that money can't buy happiness, but。
we never believe it until we see it ourselves."。
Andre Agassi won millions of dollars, won eight Grand Slams, but he says, "The good。
feeling doesn't last as long as the bad feeling."。
The surreal becomes norm, becomes the norm so quickly.。
And this is what our preacher is saying.。
He's tried experience, he's tried pleasure.。
The next thing he tries, well, he buys a lot of male and female slaves.。
He has a lot of possessions, right?。
And then what does he do?。
He gathers a lot of concubines, right?。
He's gathered silver, gold, male servants, possessions, and he's gathered concubines.。
He tries what?。
The next thing he tries to find meaning in life is possessions.。
Possessions.。
What do you guys like to possess?。
What do you guys like to hold?。
Is it football jerseys?。
Is it, you know, shoes, Kobe shoes?。
Is it guitars?。
Is it medical equipment?。
I don't know.。
I'm just looking at Mel.。
I'm just thinking what she collects.。
Medical equipment.。
Possessions don't satisfy.。
Lushly desires don't satisfy.。
We get disappointed in relationships.。
Relationships sometimes don't last.。
Sometimes it's not a happy ever after.。
King Solomon is a great example of this.。
Now the reason why a lot of people think King Solomon wrote this book is because a lot of。
this chapter too, right?。
He's possessed everything.。
He's tried everything, right?。
King Solomon, known for his wisdom.。
He prayed, "God, I'm so young.。
I can't do this job.。
I can't be king.。
God, can you help me?"。
And what does God do?。
God grants him the wisdom to do the thing that he's called him to do.。
And yet Solomon was also blessed with money.。
Do you know how much money he actually had?。
Let's look at it.。
Every year, King Solomon received over 25 tons of gold in addition to taxes paid by。
merchants.。
That's around 666 talents of gold.。
How much gold is that?。
Is anybody wearing 66 talents of gold?。
No?。
Nobody?。
Okay.。
Even the queen, I think, is wearing it right now.。
Okay.。
One talent of gold is worth, next slide, 75 pounds.。
And 75 pounds, okay?。
So one talent of gold in today's worth is around $1.6 million.。
$1.6 million.。
So how many talents of gold did he receive yearly?。
666 talents of gold.。
So how much money did he usually make?。
Around 1.1 billion a year.。
Does anybody make $1.1 billion here?。
Is Hank here?。
Is Hank here?。
No?。
Hank's not here?。
He skipped this talk.。
Yeah, he didn't want to raise his hand.。
I'm joking.。
His wife is here.。
Okay.。
I think it's USD.。
USD.。
1.1 billion.。
And he reigned for how many years?。
Around 40 years.。
Can you imagine how rich that was?。
That's crazy rich.。
What do you do with so much gold?。
You just like sleep in it.。
I think Mayweather has a toilet, you know, that's golden.。
Right?。
Maybe that's what Solomon did, had like golden toilet bowls, right?。
So he had all the money in the world.。
He had all the wisdom in the world.。
And because of that, he was so famous, people came to visit him.。
"Oh, I want to see Solomon, you know, perform."。
You know, like it was like a wisdom show.。
It was not a magic show.。
It was a wisdom show.。
Right?。
In addition to that, what did he try?。
He tried relationships.。
Oh, did he try relationships.。
Anybody have 700 wives and 300 concubines here?。
No, once enough, Pastor John says.。
700 wives and 300 concubines.。
Man, those were busy nights, huh?。
Very busy nights.。
How do you set up a schedule, you know?。
We have enough problems with our preaching schedule.。
How do you set a schedule like this?。
Anyways, all right.。
Solomon O'Solomon.。
And so, let's see what the preacher says here.。
So he sort of concludes here, this first part of his talk.。
"So I became great and surpassed all who were before me in Jerusalem.。
Also my wisdom remained with me and whatever my eyes desired, I did not keep from them.。
I kept from my heart no pleasure.。
My heart found pleasure in all my toil and this was my reward for all my toil.。
Then I considered all that my hands had done and the toil or the work that I had expended。
on doing it and behold, all was vanity.。
A striving after the wind.。
There was nothing to be gained under the sun."。
Man, he tried so hard to find meaning in life, in experiences, in pleasure, in possessions,。
in relationships, in fame, in all those fleshly desires.。
And at the end of it, he considered, imagine himself sitting at the beach, looking at the。
horizon.。
What have I done?。
And he's like, "I've done nothing.。
Nothing."。
Jim Carrey, one of my favorite actors, he says this, "I think everybody should get rich。
and famous and do everything they ever dreamed of so they can see that it's not the answer.。
That it's not the answer."。
So he tried pleasure.。
He tried pleasure.。
What have you tried to find the meaning of life in?。
What kind of pleasure?。
Is it experiences?。
Is it accomplishments?。
Is it possessions?。
Is it fleshly desires?。
Where has it led you?。
After an endless chasing, like endless chasing for the next iPhone.。
You get it.。
And then it's like, "Oh, it's nice."。
For a week.。
And then it's like, "When's the next one coming out?"。
And then you spend another, how much is it now?。
9,000?。
10,000?。
If you get pro or something?。
Yeah, have fun.。
The second reason why he's disgusted with life, he says wisdom is meaningless.。
Wisdom is meaningless.。
Let's continue to read.。
So I turned to consider wisdom and madness and fully or foolishness.。
For what can a man do who comes after the king?。
Only what has already been done.。
Then I saw that there is more gain in wisdom than in fully.。
As there is more gain in light than in darkness.。
The wise person has his eyes in his head.。
But a fool walks in darkness.。
Yet I perceived that the same event happens to all of them.。
Then I said in my heart, "What happens to the fool will also happen to me also."。
Why then have I been so very wise?。
So I said in my heart that all this is also vanity.。
For of the wise, as of the fool, there is no enduring remembrance.。
Seeing that in the days to come, all will have been long forgotten.。
So the preacher continues and says, he tries wisdom.。
And he's thinking about, yeah, wisdom, it's good.。
I live a wise life.。
And he says, oh, it's good, because the wise, they have their eyes and their heads.。
The fools, they're sort of blind.。
They don't know where they're walking.。
Have you guys been hiking before or been on vacation?。
And somebody has led this trip or this hike, and they have no idea where they're going.。
Who enjoys it?。
Who enjoys that sense of adventure?。
Anybody enjoy it?。
No, you feel like you have no idea.。
You feel like you've lost your sense of purpose.。
You feel like you're lost.。
This is what Solomon is saying.。
The wise, they could see.。
They can know exactly where they're going.。
The fools, they're just blindly bumping into things.。
They don't know where they're going.。
But at the end of it all, what happens to both of them?。
Both of them have the same result.。
Death makes life meaningless.。
Both have the same fate.。
Both will not be remembered long.。
And so he's like, wisdom.。
I think I prefer wisdom over foolishness.。
But at the end of the day, we have the same fate.。
And that's what he says makes it meaningless.。
Who are some people you remember in history?。
Name some out.。
Some people you remember in history.。
Alexander the Great.。
Colby Bryan.。
Who else?。
Abraham Lincoln.。
Winston Churchill.。
All these people are great.。
They're remembered for their basketball playing, their conquering, their leadership.。
But yet there's all these other people that were fools or very evil, and yet we still。
remember their names as well.。
And so this is why the preacher says wisdom is meaningless.。
The great people, the good people, they die.。
The evil, the dumb people, they also die.。
How long we remember their name, who knows?。
Who knows?。
Pleasure is meaningless.。
Wisdom is meaningless.。
The third thing he talks about is work.。
Who loves their work?。
I know Joseph loves their work, his work.。
Joseph loves his work.。
Michelle loves his work.。
What do you do, sir?。
I'm a jewelry designer.。
Jewelry designer, very good.。
He loves his work.。
Let's see what the preacher says about work.。
I hated all my toil in which I toil under the sun, seeing that I must leave it to the。
man who will come after me.。
And who knows whether he will be wise or a fool, yet he will be the master of all of。
which I toiled and used my wisdom under the sun.。
This also is vanity.。
What's the point when I work so hard, I design all that jewelry, I design all those interior。
buildings, when I build into all these people at church, what's the point?。
All this work, all this money that I've saved, when it just goes to the person after me.。
And who knows whether the person after me will be a fool or a wise person.。
You don't know what they're going to do with their money.。
What is the best biblical example of this?。
What's the best biblical example of this?。
The prodigal son.。
The prodigal son, very disrespectfully, when his dad was still alive, was like, "Give me。
my inheritance.。
Give me my inheritance.。
Give me a third of all you own."。
Because he was the younger son, the elder son got two thirds, double portion, if you。
know the Old Testament.。
And what does he do?。
He's like, "Yeah, I'm going to invest it in Bitcoin."。
And then it just plummets.。
And then he wastes it on wild living.。
Woo, you know?。
And then what happens?。
He's broke.。
Right?。
Bitcoin fell down and all his money he spent doing woo, just took all his money.。
And he was left with the pigs.。
Right?。
He was just like, "Hey, pal, how you doing?"。
He had some pets.。
And that's when he realized, "I got to go back to my father.。
He still can hire me to be his servant."。
Right?。
And that's what the preacher is saying.。
What's the point of storing up all this money when you don't know who it's going to go to?。
And whether this person could be your children would be wise or fools.。
Right?。
And so he also says this, "Work is grief and pain.。
Even at night, our minds do not rest."。
Work is vanity.。
Because even when we're asleep, we can't even sleep.。
We're just constantly working.。
We're constantly thinking about work.。
Joseph loves to think about work.。
That's how he gets to sleep.。
He told me.。
I'm not putting words in his mouth.。
But work, the preacher says, "Work is pain and grief because we can't rest.。
We're constantly thinking about it."。
And so that's why he's disgusted with life.。
Well, he doesn't say disgusted.。
He says vanity and meaningless.。
You just put a fancy title to catch your attention.。
He's disgusted with life because pleasure is meaningless.。
He's tried everything.。
Everything he set his eyes on, he's tried.。
Everything his heart has wanted, he's tried it.。
But at the end of the day, it's nothing.。
He's tried wisdom, the wise way of living.。
But at the end, we all have the same fate.。
What's the point?。
He's tried work.。
But what's the point of work and storing up treasures when you don't know where this treasure。
is going to go?。
He makes it seem as if life, there's no point.。
We should all just give up right now.。
And that's how he sets us up.。
He sets it up where everything is doom and gloom.。
He ends with a conclusion.。
Let's read this conclusion together.。
Let's read it.。
Therefore, ready, set, go.。
Therefore is nothing better for a person than that he should eat and drink and find enjoyment。
in his toil.。
This also I saw from the hand of God.。
For apart from him, who can eat and who can have enjoyment?。
For the one who pleases him, God has given wisdom and knowledge and joy.。
But to the sinner, he has given the business of gathering and collecting only to give to。
the one who pleases God.。
This also is vanity and a striving after the wind.。
So he's been for how many chapters?。
24 chapters.。
Kobe Bryant time, right?。
For 24 chapters, he's been talking about life is meaningless.。
And then he, at the end, he throws in three verses to try and catch you off guard.。
And this is what he says.。
It's interesting because the first thing we notice is that he believes in God.。
He believes in God.。
And what does he believe about God?。
He believes that God has given us this ability to eat and drink and have satisfaction.。
He has given this ability to us.。
It's not random.。
It's not just randomness.。
There was a design.。
There was a purpose.。
Somebody allowed it to happen.。
There was an intelligent designer that allowed this to happen.。
And so the first thing he says, how to make the most of your life, my first point is to。
recognize that God has given us the ability to eat and drink and find satisfaction in。
our work.。
And I wanna invite Winnie and Ricky to come up and share about how they have experienced。
God and how God has given them the ability to eat and drink and find satisfaction.。
Let's give them a hand.。
- Hi.。
So we are here to share about how good it is to be able to eat and drink.。
And we like eating, don't we?。
We like eating.。
And just about two months ago, we actually went to a staycation, staying in this hotel。
in May.。
And throughout the two days in the hotel, we did nothing, just eating, eating, and eating.。
Yeah, it's so enjoyable.。
And God allowed us to do that.。
And it's amazing because at that time, we didn't know that something is happening.。
We have no idea.。
And we do know that very soon, we are going to have another staycation, just a different。
type of staycation.。
So it all happened on the 26th of June.。
It was a Sunday evening.。
Our family had a family dinner with Tony's family, and we totally enjoyed it.。
It was late in the night when we partied.。
And on the way to the car park, I was walking behind him.。
And when I looked at him, he walked as if he's pretty tired.。
He's as if he wasn't lifting his left leg up properly.。
So we asked him, and he said, "I have no problem.。
I'm fine."。
So we didn't let him drive.。
Our son Chester drove home.。
But when we arrived at home, he actually threw up, right?。
He threw up a little bit.。
And then what did he say?。
He said, "Oh, I'm having travel sickness because I'm used to be the driver.。
I'm not used to sitting at the back."。
So he was complaining about the driving skills of his son.。
So we brushed it aside.。
We brushed it aside, and we went home.。
And of course, I was the first one to grab the bathroom.。
I took a bath.。
I changed into my pajamas, and I sat there.。
It was like 10 to 15 minutes before the clock strikes 12, and that would be my serbath Monday.。
And I'm totally relaxed, enjoying my time there, winding down.。
And then he went into the bathroom to take a bath.。
And out of the blue, I got this idea in my head, popped him up suddenly, and I said,。
"I should take him to the hospital for a checkup."。
And strange enough, as lazy as I am, I got up onto my feet.。
I get myself changed even before he finished his bath.。
And when he came out from the bathroom, I said, "I'm taking you to the hospital for。
a check now."。
And he said, "Why?。
I have no problem."。
So, we went to the hospital.。
It was like 10 minutes past midnight.。
We were in the private hospital, and I explained my concern.。
And the doctor checked on him, examined him, and the doctor said, "Whoa, he's fine.。
He has no problem."。
But I cannot preclude that he might have had a minor stroke earlier on when he threw up.。
So, if you are keen to have a brain scan, because I asked for a brain scan, yeah, you。
can do it, but it's not worth doing it right now.。
You can wait till the morning.。
It's not urgent.。
He might have recovered by himself already, this minor stroke, because he's not perfectly。
okay.。
But it's good to find out whether he has had a minor stroke.。
So he said, "Okay, I'm going home."。
I said, "No, you're not going home.。
You're staying here in the hospital.。
And tomorrow morning, you're going to get a scan."。
So in the morning, the nurses asked him, "Why are you hospitalized, and what did you tell。
them?"。
And I told her that my family was watching queer behavior, queer manner.。
So the nurse said, "I don't think so.。
You are all okay.。
You are normal.。
So I don't understand why you are here."。
Yeah, the nurse said he's all right.。
And then a neurologist came, actually a specialist came, and examined all over again.。
And he also considered that he's pretty normal, absolutely okay.。
So I was pressing and pressing for a brain scan.。
But since he's a normal patient, his scanning was kept being deferred.。
And it wasn't until 21 minutes past six, I think, in the evening, that he started to。
go into that room for a scan.。
And because I kept pressing to see the doctor, so the doctor came up to see me, it was like。
6.40.。
He was still in the room.。
MRI report wasn't out yet, but the doctor invited me to go and sit in front of a computer。
and look at the scan real time.。
And I saw this image.。
So can you interpret that?。
Actually, all that gray band over that little element, instead of a walnut in the skull,。
were blood.。
On the right, it was two, according to the report afterwards, on the right, the belt。
measures 2.44 cm.。
On the left, the belt measures 1.41 cm.。
And it's like a helmet all around his head.。
And if you look at the front scan, actually, the blood went all down to the eyebrow.。
So his brain was like being filled up by blood, taking up at least 25 to 30% of the space。
of his original size.。
So that was what happened.。
I feel really sorry for this poor neurologist, because in the morning, on a Monday morning,。
he went into the hospital, he ran into this patient who is perfectly normal and okay.。
And then he has a paranoid wife who kept pressing for an MRI scan.。
This wife is paranoid.。
But by the evening, when she looked at this scan, she didn't even raise her eyebrow.。
She said, "Oh, there's a lot of blood."。
And she's insanely calm.。
So he decided to do something to help me realize the significance of the situation.。
And he said, "Does he have any other family members?"。
"Yeah."。
He got two sons.。
"Are they in Hong Kong?"。
"Yeah."。
"Should I ask them to come over?"。
"Of course."。
Okay, rush our sons over.。
That's his instruction that he need an operation.。
So I think it was around seven, he came up back to the ward.。
And he looked a little bit perplexed.。
"Got blood in my brain?。
A lot?"。
Yeah, a lot.。
And so I sent the photo over to my sons, because the MRI report is actually not yet even printed.。
I just took a picture, a photo from the screen monitor.。
And my son Ryan actually sent it over to his doctor friends.。
And the doctor friends says, "Every minute counts.。
Every minute counts.。
This hospital is so slow.。
You immediately rush him over to casualty in a public hospital and get the surgery done。
immediately to remove the blood."。
And I said, "Son, hold on.。
While we're waiting for the papers to be discharged, let me make a call."。
So I called our friend who is the parent of Chester, our eldest son, one of his best friends。
in school.。
And we called that parent.。
And we just made it in time, because he was a professor, head of a heart center in Bat。
Tibbs Hospital.。
He was about to go into operation theater himself.。
We just catch him in time.。
So he immediately...。
- Postponed it.。
- Yeah.。
He just make all the arrangements.。
In 20 minutes, he gave me a call.。
He has everything.。
Everything is done.。
So it's so smooth.。
It's so smooth.。
And there's no worries.。
Because if he has gone into the theater, then we will be running around asking for surgeons。
and so on and so forth.。
So anyway, that's what happened that night in around, I think, 8 o'clock or so, a little。
bit past 8.。
- 8 o'clock, okay.。
- The director of ICU of Bat Tibbs Hospital rushed over.。
And he was here to escort him on an ambulance to the hospital on the current site for surgery.。
And when he arrived, we as a family was actually standing around the bed, chatting.。
And he practically jumped.。
Maybe not as Bonnie.。
He actually...。
It made him jump.。
He totally jumped up and said, "Oh my goodness, this is a patient?。
You really scared me.。
Why are you not lying on the bed?。
This is very dangerous.。
This is something very dangerous to do.。
Please, please, please, immediately get back onto the bed and lie down, not sit down.。
And from this moment onward, you're not to lay your feet onto the ground again.。
And even when the ambulance come, we're going to transfer you through a stretcher.。
You should not move at all," he said.。
You should not move at all.。
But, well, he has been moving around for a long time, okay?。
With all those blood in his head.。
And then he set up the things and he measured the blood pressure.。
Let's check on his memory, see whether he's okay.。
I think it's about more than...。
Greater than 180.。
His blood pressure is very high.。
Blood pressure was over 180.。
Yeah, but I don't feel any dizziness.。
I feel okay.。
There is no numbness.。
There is no headache.。
Everything is normal.。
Any headache?。
No headache.。
Any dizziness?。
Anything numb?。
No.。
He is very normal.。
So just think of anyone with a blood pressure of over 180, yeah, and he's still normal.。
And the doctor explained that the high blood pressure was result because of super high。
pressure inside the skull because of all those blood.。
Anyway, so we got onto the ambulance and let's check on his memory again.。
Who did the most talking on the ambulance?。
On the journey from Singapore Hospital to the Petro-Circuital, the consultant of the。
ICU of Petro-Circuital just together with me in the ambulance, I talked with him over。
the...。
On another journey and I do all the...。
I do most of the talking.。
He was...。
He could not stop talking.。
He was talking and talking, chatting and chatting throughout.。
With the doctor.。
And he answered phones and texted and...。
Because a lot of people, Sister and Brothers in Church, are horrified at the news and people。
are asking me, "Is this alert?。
Is this conscious?"。
It's not just alert and conscious, it was talking and talking.。
And he was very jolly, actually.。
So we arrived at the hospital, get everything checked and...。
Oh, yeah.。
The doctor actually asked what's the cause of that blood, the bleeding.。
And he asked him, "Have you hit your head in the past week?"。
We said, "No, definitely not."。
"How about in the past two or three weeks?"。
We said, "No, definitely not."。
He said, "No, it's impossible.。
There must be caused by some hitting on the head."。
And eventually we realised it was actually two long months ago, not two to three weeks。
ago.。
Two months ago, yeah.。
What happened on the 29th of April?。
Yeah.。
In the afternoon, I drove my car out of the car park of the PP, particular place.。
And I collided with the tail of the Norway.。
The Norway is coming down, I'm waking up.。
So it is quite lucky for me, or thanks God, we don't have head-to-head condition.。
Otherwise, the consequences cannot be imagined.。
But the airbags, both airbags actually popped out.。
So the force was strong.。
But he said he's not hurt.。
And we did our part.。
We forced him to go to the hospital for a checkup.。
And the hospital checked him over.。
And the hospital released him and said he is fine.。
And he's actually fine.。
If every minute counts, I counted roughly, it was about 85,200 minutes has passed.。
And he was running around carrying those blood in his brain.。
And we went to a staycation, eating and eating and drinking, allowed by God, enjoying life.。
He did a lot of things those two weeks.。
And there were, according to the doctor, there were bleeding on various locations throughout。
those two months.。
Anyway, so the next photo I want to show you is the photo we took just the very moment。
before he went into the surgery room.。
So we were allowed to go into the ICU to see him two by two.。
So that's why we took pictures two by two.。
And I lay down on him and prayed for him.。
And then I hope you agree with me that do you see panic in our eyes?。
Do you see worries in our eyes?。
We are actually smiling.。
And when I show this photo to one of the sister in my clan, she actually said, it looked more。
like you're going into a delivery room about to deliver a baby.。
I praised the Lord for giving us that supernatural peace.。
It's absolutely supernatural peace.。
Are you afraid at that moment?。
I wasn't afraid.。
And then he went into the operation theatre.。
We went downstairs to wait for the surgery to be done.。
A lot of loving brothers and sisters did not sleep that night lifting us up in prayers。
because the surgery was started like 15 minutes past midnight.。
And Bella actually called me and then she said, how come you sounded a lot calmer than。
I do?。
So because we are not afraid, we really are not afraid.。
Why am I not afraid?。
When I look at that much blood in the brain, I know that it was God who has sustained him。
over the past two months.。
If God has sustained him over the past two months, why should he not sustain him on this。
day?。
Why?。
I cannot think of a reason why.。
And if God is for us, who can be against us?。
Yeah, thanks.。
I feel so thankful for the Lord, not just for everything going so smooth, also for the。
supernatural peace that we are experiencing.。
Okay, question.。
Why did God allow us to wait that long for this scan?。
We waited for 18 hours before the scan was done.。
Guess what?。
Next slide, please.。
On that very Monday, my son was taking his pre-wedding photo on the beach with the whole。
crew.。
So he kept testing us and asking for results of the scan, and he said he didn't even start。
to do his scan.。
And the scan was only done by the time they finished the shooting.。
All things work for good for those who love God.。
This really amazing grace, we really thank God.。
All the timing, everything were in God's hand.。
He's sovereign.。
He's totally sovereign, so praise the Lord.。
And the last photo I want to show you is the photo we took as we left the hospital five。
days after the surgery.。
Actually, oh, can I ask you a question?。
Do you still remember what time did you send out your first text message after the surgery?。
When I was sent out from the surgery theater, I sent out my first message to my family.。
It is about half past seven in the morning.。
We finished this operation three in the, 3 a.m., and four and a half hours later, this。
guy is texting his family.。
And in the morning, in less than 12 hours, he's eating and drinking again.。
He's eating and drinking in the hospital again.。
And he could get off his bed, there's any brain damage on you.。
Actually, the doctor explained that the danger of his case was that a lot of people with。
that much blood in their brain would have passed out, and then they never woke up again,。
they would just pass away.。
And another possibility was that they would probably, even after surgery, they could have。
brain damage because the brain stem is being pressed so much.。
But this did not happen to us.。
And so we took a selfie as we left the hospital because my son said it really felt like a。
staycation.。
We have great family time over the week, a lot of family time, and I continue to water。
my plants during that week.。
I bake some scones, I make tea.。
People ask me whether it's a roller coaster week for me, I would say no.。
For me, I think it's a joyful week because God has revealed himself to us in our family.。
And I think that something great, something exciting is coming our way.。
I praise the Lord for that.。
And what do you have to say about this vacation?。
Yes, I would like to say that it's my feeling that nothing should be taken for granted.。
Nothing should be taken for granted.。
So we have to praise God.。
And I also like to praise God for his mercy and protection for me and for my family.。
And I also like to thank the church members who put me in their prayers.。
I know that when I was receiving the surgery in the early morning, some of the church members。
would not sleep.。
They say prayers for me.。
A lot of people were asleep.。
A lot of people just praying for me until my surgery is over.。
So here, I'd like to make my friends, I'd like to give my big thanks to them.。
We felt very much loved by this community.。
And while he was in the operation theater, while I was praying, some words kept popping。
up in my prayer.。
And I felt that the operation theater was filled with God's glory.。
And I think this thing that happened to our family is actually filled, it's actually all。
of us with his grace and his power and everything.。
So I'm very excited.。
I thank God that he provides, he sustains.。
Eating and drinking should not be taken for granted.。
And eating and drinking in the presence of the Lord is something so joyful.。
It was a joyful week for us, actually.。
Praise the Lord.。
To him be the glory.。
- Praise the Lord.。
What an amazing testimony of just how God has been working.。
And yes, indeed, he allows us to eat and to drink and to enjoy the things in life.。
And the second thing that the preacher talks about is that God allows us to find contentment。
in our work and in pleasures.。
And I just want us to stand, I just want us to be reminded of three things.。
And the first thing is that God is the one that provides for us.。
He provides life for us.。
The air we breathe, every moment that we have.。
And not only does he provide those, he provides life, he sustains our life.。
He sustained Ricky's life.。
He's sustaining our breath right now.。
Jesus is the author and sustainer of our life.。
And the last thing that the preacher talks about is that he is a God that rewards us.。
He rewards those that are his.。
If a father can give good gifts to his son, how much greater is our heavenly father who。
will reward us.。
Be not on this earth, but into the next life to come.。
Let us stand and respond in a song called Jesus at the Center of It All.。
(gentle music)。
