[BLANK_AUDIO]。
Having an Easter Saturday service is always a dilemma for us at KFCI.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
It's like a bridge between Good Friday and。
Jesus's sacrificial death upon the cross.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
And Easter Sunday and his glorious resurrection.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
Let us hope it is also a bridge to the return of face to face services next week.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
What we have tried to do in response is to celebrate。
the death and the resurrection of Jesus in one service.。
Our songs, our focus up until this point have been on Calvary.。
And we will finish the service at the empty tomb.。
And to do so, we have our own wish.。
And it's this, the death and the raising of Lazarus.。
And the statement from Jesus, I am the resurrection and the life.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
John's Gospel contains the seven I am's that we have studied over。
Lent in company with thousands of other churches around the world.。
And John's Gospel also contains the seven。
miracles of Jesus of which this is the last one.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
Chapter 11 is a bridge chapter,。
a very significant chapter in John's Gospel.。
Chapters 1 to 11 talk about Jesus's。
earthly ministry, which lasted about three years.。
Chapters 12 to 19 talk about things that。
happened in the week leading up to Jesus's crucifixion.。
Now notice eight chapters, chapters 12 to 19。
are devoted to one week leading up to Jesus's death.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
11 chapters covering three years,。
eight chapters covering one week.。
The death of Jesus is very important to him and should be to us also.。
Therefore, chapter 11 is significant in that。
it serves as a conclusion to the first half,。
as well as the introduction to the second half of John's Gospel.。
The chapter is also significant that。
it has the last and the climax of Jesus's miracles.。
When I read it afresh this week, I was surprised.。
No, I was amazed at how badly from a human point of view,。
it seemed to start.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
We read how much Jesus loved Lazarus and his sisters.。
We would call them to use Johnny's terms, BFFs, best friends.。
Then Jesus hears that Lazarus is seriously ill.。
He caught the first century equivalent of COVID and。
is in ICU on a respirator fighting for his last breath.。
Jesus' response we read in verse six.。
So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, wait for it.。
He stayed two days longer in the place where he was.。
Imagine me getting a call from one of the congregation.。
Pastor John, my brother, my sister is sick.。
I think they may be dying.。
And I say, yeah, I think I can come on Wednesday afternoon.。
It does raise a number of questions.。
And I wanna look at two questions and then make a third point.。
After all, all good sermons have three points.。
The first one is this, why does God wait to answer your prayers?。
Let's read it.。
Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany,。
the village of Mary and her sister Martha.。
It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and。
wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill.。
So the sisters came to him and saying,。
he whom you love is ill.。
Jesus would often stay with Lazarus and。
his two sisters, Mary and Martha and。
Lazarus, even though he knew the pain the sisters were。
going through, but decided to delay the miracle.。
Look at these words.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.。
Instead of rushing to Bethany, Jesus stayed two days longer.。
Why?。
It was actually because he loved Mary, Martha and。
her sister, and Lazarus, even though he knew the pain。
the sisters were going through, but decided to delay the miracle.。
Now look at these words.。
Now Jesus loved Mary, Martha and her sister and Lazarus.。
So you see the delay in responding to their prayers was not。
a denial of his love.。
The separate mention of their names meant that Jesus。
loved each one uniquely and individually.。
He did not simply love the family.。
He loved Martha and he loved Mary and he loved Lazarus.。
The individual love of Jesus towards these three is especially。
significant when we think of how they were different,。
both in their personality and their situations in life.。
Church, we are the Marys and the Marthas in this story.。
Lazarus is someone or something who is very dear to you.。
Your Lazarus is ill and you desperately need Jesus to intervene,。
to save your Lazarus.。
The love of Jesus does not exempt us from the sickness。
and the problems of life.。
How often have you prayed or requested Jesus to show up,。
but he did not?。
How did you feel?。
Instead, he heard your prayer, but decided to wait.。
His words to you, "I love you.。
Your Lazarus will not die."。
To dig into this seeming anomaly, I want to look at a few more verses.。
I've called this "When God Seems Too Late."。
So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him.。
But Mary remained seated in the house.。
Martha said to Jesus, "Lord, if you'd been here, my brother would not have died.。
But even now, I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you."。
Jesus said to her, "Your brother will rise again."。
Martha said to him, "I know he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day."。
Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life.。
Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live."。
"And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die.。
Do you believe this?"。
She said to him, "Yes, Lord.。
I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world."。
Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet,。
saying to the Lord, "Lord, if you'd been here, my brother would not have died."。
When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping,。
he was deeply moved.。
He was moved in his spirit and greatly troubled.。
And he said, "Where have you laid him?"。
They said to him, "Lord, come and see."。
Jesus wept.。
So the Jews said, "See how he loved him."。
But some of them said, "Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind。
also have kept this man from dying?"。
Now, notice the sequence of events carefully.。
As I said earlier, after Jesus received the message,。
Jesus waited for two days and then traveled to Bethany.。
When he arrived, Lazarus had been dead for four days.。
This means that the messenger must have taken a day to travel to Jesus.。
Jesus took a day to travel back to Bethany,。
and Lazarus must have died after the messenger left.。
I realize for the first time this week, you may not have spotted this.。
When Jesus said, "This illness does not lead to death,"。
Lazarus was already dead.。
Did Jesus make a mistake, or did Jesus mean something else?。
So Jesus's arrival is a little too late.。
Or is it?。
There is a tension between two realities throughout this story.。
On one hand, we are told of Jesus's affection towards Mary, Martha, and Lazarus.。
But on the other hand, we notice that Jesus delayed action.。
The sisters noticed this.。
Martha said, "Lord, if you'd been here, my brother would have not died."。
Mary said, "Lord, if you'd been here, my brother would not have died."。
The Jews who were there said, "Could this man who opened the eyes of the blind。
also have kept this man from dying?"。
At times, the same tension exists in life.。
We are told that Jesus loves us, but his inaction suggests the opposite.。
I'm pleased to say my friend in Australia, Tim Thurston, is on the Zoom call tonight.。
We had a conversation about 10 days ago.。
Tim and his wife, they'd had their home and all their belongings。
dramatically wiped out in the recent floods.。
It was an awful experience.。
He was asking me, "Why didn't God warn me?"。
We were led to talk about Job in the Old Testament.。
Job was a righteous man, and he suffered much.。
He pleaded with God to take away his suffering,。
but there was no answer for a long time.。
The same with Joseph.。
Now, why does God do this?。
We don't fully know.。
Jesus said, "It is for God's glory."。
Now, look at this.。
What did he do instead of answering their prayers?。
He ministered to Mary and Martha.。
We read, "He wept."。
The shortest verse in the whole Bible is John 11, 35.。
Jesus wept.。
I've always been intrigued by this verse.。
I believe that Jesus knew that he was going to raise Lazarus.。
Why did he cry?。
I believe he was not weeping for Lazarus.。
He was weeping alongside Mary and Martha.。
Empathy is one of the biggest qualities。
we can exhibit as Christians as we minister to others.。
It is why sometimes those of us who have experienced。
hurt ourselves are the best people。
to minister to the hurting.。
In the mind of the ancient Greek,。
the primary characteristic of God。
was this word apatheia, the total inability。
to feel any emotion whatsoever.。
We get the word apathy from it.。
The Greeks believed in an isolated, passionless,。
and compassionless God, but not Jesus.。
Let's read this from Hebrews.。
"For we do not have a higher priest who。
is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses,。
but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are,。
yet without sin.。
Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace。
that we may receive mercy and find grace。
to help us in our time of need."。
Jesus dignified the tears of those who wept in the Bible.。
Abraham wept when he buried Sarah.。
Jacob wept when he wrestled with the angel.。
David and Jonathan wept together.。
Hezekiah wept over his sickness.。
Josiah wept over the sin of his nation.。
Jeremiah was known as the weeping prophet.。
I believe that KFCI is called to be an empathetic church, not。
an apathetic church.。
Jesus's interaction with these two sisters。
is as different as the sisters themselves.。
Martha is extroverted and reactive, accusative,。
but Mary is introverted and reflective.。
Martha was disappointed, while Mary wept.。
They processed the death of Lazarus very differently,。
but both said the same to Jesus.。
Lord, if you'd been here, our brother would not have died.。
It is likely that they said this to each other several times。
since Lazarus dies.。
Why wasn't Jesus here?。
My friends, it may look like God has failed you,。
but he will never leave you, and he will never forsake you.。
He is a faithful minister to you.。
Now you may be more like Mary or more like Martha,。
but irrespective, Jesus is here to minister to you.。
With Martha, Jesus gave a listening ear,。
and engaged with her in conversation.。
But with Mary, Jesus demonstrated。
an incredible empathy.。
He wept.。
Jesus ministered to each of them in the way they needed.。
Jesus knew that Lazarus would soon be raised。
and that their grief would turn to joy,。
yet he took time to grieve with them.。
He understood that grief is real,。
and they needed to take time to grieve.。
Even given the reality of resurrection,。
grief is an appropriate response to loss.。
Jesus said to them, your brother will rise again.。
Remember earlier, he said this illness。
will not lead to death.。
Now it must have been hard to trust what he is saying。
or promising the second time.。
However, most of the Jews actually。
believed in the resurrection at the end of the age.。
So they were very likely to have also said to the sisters,。
your brother will rise again.。
This is very possible because Martha responded,。
I know that he will rise again in the resurrection。
on the last day.。
She probably learned this from childhood.。
But look at Jesus's response.。
He said, I, I am the resurrection and the life.。
Now this is another I am saying of Jesus.。
I am the bread of life.。
I am the light of the world.。
I am the door.。
I am the good shepherd.。
The resurrection and the life that the Jews were looking。
forward to, the resurrection and the life。
that the Jews were comforting with the sisters with,。
the resurrection and the life that Martha knew。
is found in Jesus.。
Jesus is the resurrection and the life.。
Jesus further explains, whoever believes in me, though he die,。
yet shall he live.。
And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die.。
Those who believe in Jesus will receive the resurrection power。
and the life that is in him.。
They might die according to the flesh,。
but will go on living in the spirit.。
Now Jesus had said in John chapter 5,。
truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word。
and believes him who sent me has eternal life.。
He does not come into judgment, but has。
passed from death to life.。
Those who believe in Jesus have passed from death to life.。
They were spiritually dead, but in Christ,。
they were made alive in the spirit.。
The question Jesus gave to Martha。
and he gives to you this evening is, do you believe this?。
Her answer, yes, Lord, I believe you。
are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world.。
Now why did John write this gospel?。
Well, if we go to the end of the gospel to John 20,。
now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of disciples。
which are not written in this book,。
but these are written so that you。
might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God,。
and that by believing, you may have life in his name.。
My friends, we also should confess, yes, Lord,。
I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who。
is coming into the world.。
In fact, will you do that right now。
as we draw to a conclusion, an exciting conclusion,。
a very exciting conclusion?。
After my two questions, my third point is this.。
God keeps his promises.。
Let's read it.。
This is really exciting.。
Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb.。
It was a cave and a stone lay against it.。
Jesus said, take away the stone.。
Mary-- sorry, Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him,。
Lord, by this time there will be an odor,。
for he has been dead for four days.。
Jesus said to you, did I not tell you。
that if you believed, you would see the glory of God?。
So they took away the stone.。
And Jesus lifted his eyes and said, Father,。
I thank you that you have heard me.。
I knew that you always hear me, and I。
said this on the account of the people standing around.。
But I said this on the account of the people standing around,。
that they may believe that you have sent me.。
When he had said these things, he。
cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out.。
The man who had died came out, his hands and feet。
bound with linen strips and his face wrapped with a cloth.。
Jesus said to them, unbind him and let him go.。
So Jesus arrived at the tomb and requested。
that the stone be removed.。
Martha protested.。
For a start, there would be an awful stench.。
After all, this was the Middle East.。
It was hot and humid.。
We in Hong Kong know only too well。
what the humidity would be like.。
Think of June or July.。
Add to that a four-day-old smelly corpse.。
But the real issue here is Martha's trust.。
Is it hard for her to trust again this time?。
Again, Jesus' response was simple.。
He simply said, take away the stone.。
In other words, trust me.。
It was up to Martha.。
The stone could not be opened without her permission.。
Will she and can she trust in Jesus this time?。
Jesus called Lazarus, and Lazarus came out from the tomb.。
He was brought back to life.。
When Jesus raised Lazarus with a loud voice,。
it confirms Jesus' earlier statement in John 5:25。
that the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God。
and will live.。
It also demonstrates that Lazarus。
is one of the sheep who is recognized。
the voice of the Good Shepherd that we read in John 10.。
Martha and Mary's faith was vindicated.。
They simply chose to trust Jesus again,。
even though they didn't know what to expect.。
The Jews believe that when a person died,。
the person's spirit stayed around the body for three days。
and then departed.。
I believe this is why Jesus waited four days to demonstrate。
his absolute control over death and his own death eventually.。
He was actually announcing his messiahship。
and left the authorities with a dilemma, which they。
tried to answer by killing him.。
Only we know the end of the story, don't we?。
But let's, in conclusion, look at the big picture.。
The positioning of this miracle in John's narrative of Jesus'。
life tells us that the event is meant。
to complement and dovetail with Jesus' own imminent death.。
He has returned to Bethany to restore Jesus to life。
in full knowledge that he will pay with his own life.。
Actually, only two to three miles。
from that spot, that very spot.。
I mean, that's like Victoria Park from our KFC church office.。
However, and this is important, Jesus' raising of Lazarus。
also prefigures Jesus' own triumph over death。
through his resurrection three days after his crucifixion,。
which the worldwide church calls Easter。
and is celebrating this weekend.。
As the last miracle that he will perform in his life,。
it paves a way for his own resurrection。
three days after the crucifixion.。
With the detail of the stone rolling away from the tomb。
also paralleling Jesus' revival of his friend Lazarus.。
KFC, God keeps his promise.。
God keeps his promises.。
And that we can trust, even though we don't understand,。
like my friend Tim did in Australia.。
God will fulfill his promise in his timing and for his glory.。
As I ask my friend, I ask you, will you trust God again?。
Will you open the tomb of your heart。
and let God call out to Lazarus in you?。
But to do so, my friend, you must be willing to let go.。
