Good, good.。
So good to be able to preach to you all, not via a camera.。
You've all got your masks on, so I can't see you.。
Really good to see you all.。
Hope you're all doing well.。
Hope you're all going to be staying safe in these next couple of weeks or months.。
We actually had to finish the last series on Ephesians online.。
It was about identity, about who do we think we are.。
We finished it talking about putting on the whole armour of God.。
And then Pastor John last week started us off on a new series leading up to Easter called。
Jesus is King.。
Nothing to do, no connection with Kanye West's latest album.。
But this idea of heading up to Easter and really digging into who Jesus is and what。
the gospels say about him.。
And he went through, and John went through the genealogy of Jesus.。
He went from the 14 generations from Abraham to David, and then from the 14 generations。
from David to the deportation to Babylon, and then another 14 generations from Babylon。
to Jesus' birth.。
And that was Matthew chapter 1.。
And today, and that was the King's record.。
And today I want to be talking about the King's rise.。
The genealogy really showed us that mankind, the history of mankind was all pointing to。
one point.。
The arrival of the King, the Kingdom of Heaven arriving on earth.。
Matthew chapters 3 and 4 talks to us about Jesus announcing his ministry to the world.。
This is Jesus beginning his story, the King's rise.。
And John last week gave us four different points about the genealogy.。
And today I'm going to give you the four A's about the King's rise.。
Of course, these two chapters are huge, and there's so much in there, there could be at。
least a whole series in these two chapters.。
But I'm going to split this into four very simple parts, the four A's.。
The first about the King's rise is there is an announcement, and then there is an approval。
process.。
He's announced, and then he's approved, and then he is assessed, and finally he assembles.。
And as we look at this, as we look at how Jesus rises, I hope that it's of an encouragement。
to you that Jesus is King, even though outside it's very uncertain, that Jesus remains sovereign。
and is ruling and is King.。
So the first one is this.。
Jesus is announced.。
Matthew chapter 3, verse 2 says this.。
There's a guy who's in the wilderness, and he shouts this phrase, verse 2, "Repent, for。
the kingdom of heaven is at hand."。
Who is this guy?。
John the Baptist.。
Matthew is writing about John the Baptist.。
He's saying, "Repent, and the kingdom of heaven is at hand."。
That kingdom of heaven word is basically the same as kingdom of God.。
But it's interesting here because Matthew was writing to the Jewish people, and he knew。
that the Jewish people really are uncomfortable with the word God.。
So instead of saying the kingdom of God, he would say the kingdom of heaven.。
They're really the same things.。
And you know Matthew is talking to the Jewish people because then he writes the next verse,。
he quotes the prophet Isaiah.。
Isaiah 40, verse 3 says this, and Matthew writes this in the next verse, "The voice。
of one crying in the wilderness, 'Prepare the way of the Lord.。
Make his path straight.'"。
What he's telling the Jews here is that that guy that you've been waiting for, that guy。
that you have been expecting to come and rescue you, he is here.。
The time is now, Jewish people.。
Do you get it?。
Do you know that it is him?。
He's confirming to them this is the guy now.。
And who's announcing this?。
John the Baptist.。
Incredibly counter-cultural model of sacrificial obedience.。
A crazy man is what we would say about him if we saw him in the streets.。
He wore camel's hair.。
He lived in the wilderness and he ate locust and honey for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.。
An incredibly strange man.。
But he is the one that was chosen to announce the arrival of the king.。
And I want to talk a little bit about John the Baptist because he's a very interesting。
man.。
He gave up his life to announce, to make the path straight.。
And he was ferocious.。
And you could see him talking to the Israelites.。
And this passage carries on.。
He's telling them to repent.。
You guys, you think that you're going to be saved because Abraham is your granddaddy,。
granddaddy, granddaddy.。
But you're not.。
And he's telling them, "Bear fruits in keeping with repentance."。
He's saying, "If you really are genuinely saved, I need to see some fruits.。
There has to be some difference in your life."。
And at the moment, there isn't.。
And if there isn't, one day, someone is going to come and they're going to throw you in。
the fire.。
So he's got this boldness and courage about him.。
He's fierce.。
And yet, there's another side.。
Whilst he's declaring all this, and this is where I really want you to imagine listening。
to this guy in the wilderness.。
And he's getting quite a crowd.。
Quite a lot of people are coming to hear this message and repenting and getting baptized。
by him.。
But whilst he has that strength and that popularity and he's drawing people in, there's another。
side to that.。
Whilst there is ferocity, there's also this sense of humility.。
Because he says this, "I baptize you with water for repentance."。
But there's going to be coming someone who's going to baptize you with the Holy Spirit.。
And this guy, this guy, I can't even fill his shoes.。
Forget it.。
I'm not even allowed to carry his shoes.。
I'm unworthy to carry his sandals.。
This guy is Jesus.。
And you better be ready because he is coming and he is here.。
Be ready.。
Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.。
And so imagine this scene.。
He's by the water in the wilderness.。
He's giving this message, a powerful message.。
People are repenting.。
And then lo and behold, Jesus himself comes and joins the gathering.。
He comes and joins the gathering and then he walks through the crowds.。
He walks to the water.。
He goes up to John and asks John to baptize him.。
Can you imagine just a moment what John would be doing in his camel's hair with locusts。
still on his mouth?。
"What do you mean, me baptize you?。
You should be baptizing me.。
You're Jesus.。
You're our Messiah.。
You're the Savior."。
And then Jesus says this.。
He says, "Let it be so.。
Baptize me because it is time now to fulfill all righteousness."。
Have you ever wondered why Jesus needed to be baptized?。
The whole point of baptism is to declare that your old ways are gone and that your new life。
is beginning.。
But Jesus didn't need to repent from his old ways.。
Jesus was God.。
He was flawless.。
He was sinless.。
So why did he have to be baptized?。
Why did he come at this moment as a 30-year-old man to come into the wilderness to be baptized。
by this crazy man?。
What was Jesus actually doing?。
And I think the hint is in the Scriptures.。
Three verse 11 says this.。
When John was saying, "I baptize you with water for," what?。
"Repentance."。
So I think there's two points here.。
This word repentance isn't regret.。
When you do something wrong, you're like, "Oh my goodness.。
I really shouldn't have done that.。
I should have known better.。
I just feel so bad and guilty about this.。
I'm sorry.。
You apologize to whoever you wronged."。
That's not really repentance.。
That's just regret.。
Repentance is saying, "I was going this way and I now recognize that it's completely wrong。
and now I'm going to go this way."。
It's turning from your old ways and obeying God.。
And what Jesus is doing here in this act of baptism when he didn't really need to, he。
was modeling to us true obedience.。
He was modeling to us true obedience.。
Why?。
And the second word is this.。
And it says here, Jesus says, "To fulfill all righteousness."。
Righteousness.。
Jesus knows that one day all of us and all of those around the sea at that time, one。
day will be face to face with our Creator and righteousness will be demanded of us.。
But he knows that we all fall short of the glory of God.。
In this moment of being baptized, what he's doing is he's identifying with mankind, identifying。
with flawed humanity, identifying with Israel and saying, "I am here to fulfill all righteousness.。
My righteousness I give to you."。
That song that Florence sang at the end, "Dressed in righteousness alone."。
That is what we're going to be when we meet our Creator, dressed in his righteousness.。
2 Corinthians says this, "He made him who knew no sin to be sin."。
Why?。
So that we could be the righteousness of God.。
So what Jesus is doing as he gets baptized, he's showing us what total obedience looks。
like and he's also identifying with us, thereby qualifying as our Messiah.。
That he was coming to save us.。
And once we are baptized in him with the Holy Spirit, his righteousness now becomes ours.。
So there we have it.。
Jesus is announced by John the Baptist.。
The second point is this, is approved.。
From the moment he gets baptized and then he gets lifted out of the water, an incredible。
scene happens.。
Probably the defining moment of humanity.。
What happens?。
The verse goes, "The heavens open and then the Spirit of God descends upon him like a。
dove and a voice comes from heaven and says, 'Behold, this is my beloved Son with whom。
I am well pleased.'"。
Pause.。
The heavens opened.。
I've seen clouds open and a bit of sun come.。
The heavens opened.。
Can you imagine being there?。
The heavens opened up and then the Spirit of God comes down on Jesus like a dove.。
If you're a Jewish person, what does a dove mean to you?。
A dove means peace.。
A dove means Genesis chapter 8.。
It means Noah and the flood.。
It means the dove that symbolizes the new era.。
You can see this dove descending on this man and you can see a new era being ushered in.。
And then you hear a voice, maybe even Morgan Freeman style voice.。
"Behold, this is my Son."。
I do not have such a low voice to do Morgan Freeman.。
It's more like David Beckham for me and the accent is wrong.。
"Behold, this is my Son, my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased."。
Have you watched those movies where at the beginning of the movie is a narrator and it's。
kind of like this.。
Once there lived a boy named Charlie and he loved chocolate.。
And a lot of films start like this.。
And you have a narrator, again, just a very husky voice that starts this whole story off.。
And then once the narrating finishes, the story begins and then you follow the main。
character Charlie and then he goes through ups and downs in life.。
But then you know that the narrator at the beginning that set the scene, you know that。
Charlie is going to be fine because the narrator is telling the story and the narrator lived。
to tell the story.。
So you know at some point, even with all these ups and downs, Charlie is going to be fine.。
And I think this is a little bit similar because I'm trying to imagine if I was there and I。
heard this voice come from heaven and this voice was saying, "Behold, this is my beloved。
Son with whom I am well pleased."。
For me, this is the beginning of Jesus' story.。
But I think the beginning points to the end.。
It foretells the end because what I'm seeing, if I see the heavens open and this dove land。
on this man over there and a voice coming out to shout something, I'm thinking, "Whoever。
that guy is, he's got heaven on his side.。
So whatever he is here to do, whatever mission he's on, he's going to succeed."。
Can you see that?。
God revealed himself through his voice, through the heavens opening already.。
He already proclaimed his victory.。
He was already very well pleased with his Son who was obedient, who had followed him.。
That statement in itself is packed.。
This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased.。
Again, the Jews, if they knew their scripture, they would go straight back to Isaiah chapter。
42.。
I think we have this.。
Isaiah 42, "Behold my servant whom I behold."。
They would see the parallels.。
"Behold, this is my beloved Son."。
This is talking about the chosen servant of Israel.。
They would go to Psalm 2 and see, "Today," the next slide, "you are my Son.。
Today I have begotten you."。
They will see the parallels.。
This man is loved by God.。
And you go even further back.。
For me, this is probably the main one.。
You go to Genesis chapter 22.。
I don't know if you heard this story before.。
There was a guy called Abraham who couldn't have a baby for a very long time until one。
day God gifted him and his wife Sarah a baby, Isaac.。
And the boy grew up.。
And then one day, Abraham is asked by God, "Abraham, take your son Isaac whom you love."。
"And go up to the mountain to worship me."。
How?。
To sacrifice Isaac.。
"Sacrifice your only son whom you love."。
And Abraham obeys, takes Isaac up this mountain, puts him on the table, is just about ready。
to sacrifice him, and God stops him.。
He says, "Stop.。
Now I know what is in your heart.。
Now I know that you love me.。
And actually, you don't need to sacrifice the son whom you love.。
There's a lamb that's trapped in the bush over there.。
Take that as a substitute."。
Fast forward all these thousands of years now, God is saying, "Behold, this is my son。
whom I love.。
And I'm well pleased with him.。
And I'm going to sacrifice him for mankind."。
What God is saying here is three things.。
He's confirming Jesus' identity, his relationship, and his purpose.。
Identity, why?。
God's confirming this man is divine.。
This man is divine.。
Last time I checked, no human being had heaven open for them and have their voice come down.。
This man is divine.。
What kind of divinity?。
His son, his relationship is that he is God's own son.。
"For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son."。
And finally, his mission.。
He was here.。
He came from heaven to earth.。
The kingdom of heaven is at hand because it has arrived now for a mission, and that pleased。
God.。
Identity, relationship, purpose.。
Jesus is first announced, and then he is approved.。
And as if the heaven's opening wasn't quite strange enough for you, the next stage is。
even more interesting, I find.。
Chapter four begins like this.。
The moment that is finished, "With whom I am well pleased," we jump into chapter four.。
And it says this, "Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness.。
From there he fasts for 40 days and 40 nights."。
And then the most biggest understatement of the year, "And he was hungry."。
He's not eating for 40 days and 40 nights, and he was hungry, I bet.。
And what I said earlier about Jesus kind of identifying with mankind being baptized, he's。
doing the same here.。
Where the Israelites were trapped in the wilderness for 40 years but failed, Jesus was now going。
to be in the wilderness for 40 days, but he was going to pass.。
And that model of sacrificial obedience that crazy man John the Baptist had, living in。
the wilderness eating locusts and honey, Jesus now looks at that and goes, "I'm going to。
go into the wilderness and I'm going to eat nothing but the Word of God."。
This is an even more intense version of obedience that Jesus is displaying here.。
And there, Jesus is assessed.。
We call this passage the temptation of Jesus.。
This is Jesus coming face to face with the tempter, the enemy, the devil, and he's being。
tested.。
And that's the verb there, really.。
It's tempted, but it's really tested here.。
And what this really tells me is when there is a mission, there is also, when there is。
a calling, there is also going to be a testing.。
Jesus is called to come and save mankind, but before he does that, he, even Jesus, has。
to be assessed.。
Why?。
Because true obedience can only exist when there is opportunity.。
If Jesus didn't get assessed, then he couldn't really prove that he was actually capable。
and qualified to redeem mankind.。
So he had to go through this process.。
He had to be tested.。
And this makes me think, actually, for us, if we are called, we must also be prepared。
to be tested.。
That there is testing in our lives.。
Of course, it's been pretty obvious this year, there is quite a lot of testing that's been。
going on, but we have to be prepared for that because it is good and it is right.。
Going back to the wilderness, if you go to Deuteronomy 8, I think I put this on the slide。
up there.。
I didn't have this on there.。
8, chapter 2, there it is.。
God is talking to the Israelites and they're in the wilderness.。
And the reason why is, verse 2, "And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your。
God has led you these 40 years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, testing you to know。
what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not."。
God allows us to have tests, to humble us, to test us, to see what is in our hearts.。
Have you been going through a test these last few months, or this last year, or these last。
two years?。
What has it revealed in your heart?。
I often say this last year has caused a lot of problems to surface in Hong Kong, right?。
But my actual thought is these problems were always there, right?。
And these incidents, these events have merely just brought them up to the surface.。
God allows for testing to happen.。
God allows for trials to happen, sometimes to humble us and test us, to reveal to us。
what is in our hearts.。
And then we can then cry to him in Psalm 139, "Search me, O God.。
Test my thoughts, know my heart.。
See if there is any offensive way in me, and lead me on the path everlasting."。
The apostle James in James chapter 1 says this, "Count it all joy when you face trials."。
Because what do trials bring?。
It brings a level of steadfastness.。
And when steadfastness comes to its full effect, you will be perfect and lacking in nothing.。
Perfect and lacking in nothing.。
Brother, sister, if you are going through a test right now in your life, emotionally,。
professionally, what is it revealing in your heart?。
What is God trying to speak to you about?。
Count it all joy that this is happening.。
Even Jesus had to be assessed.。
And how did he fight this?。
Actually, what was the battleground that he was being tested on?。
This is even more interesting.。
End of chapter 3 is this, "Behold, this is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased."。
Interestingly, the battleground is this.。
When the enemy comes to Jesus, the first question is, "If you are the Son of God."。
Wait a minute, we just had heaven opened, a voice come down and declare that he is the。
Son of God.。
So you see, the enemy is very interesting here.。
Even in the face of truth, what he's trying to do is sow seeds of doubt in our minds.。
If you are really the Son of God, if you are really Daddy's boy, and you're hungry, you。
could satisfy this fleshly desire, you could turn these stones into tassel vows.。
Like seriously, right now, you could do that.。
Because you have that power, because you're Daddy's boy, right?。
And you see, this is where it's interesting.。
It is about physical desires and needs, hunger, all these things, but it's really about identity.。
And it's saying, "If you are the Son of God, I know you just had heaven opened up and Morgan。
Freeman tell you that you are, but do you really believe that?"。
And this takes me back to the last sermon in Ephesians, the whole armour of God.。
What was it?。
The helmet of salvation, reminding ourselves, our minds, our brains, that we are saved,。
that we are children of God.。
And so Jesus then responds to him and says, "No, man shall not live by bread alone."。
And we're not going to go through each of those.。
And then he goes again, "If you are the Son of God, you could jump from this cliff."。
And what does the devil do?。
He quotes Psalm 91, which is what John just read to us.。
He says, "Hey, in the scriptures it says that you can command angels to come and catch you。
if you fall.。
Show me if you really are the Son of God."。
And then finally, he takes him up to the right to the top of the mountain and shows him the。
kingdoms of the world in all their glory.。
And he says, "Hey, I know you came down here with a mission, but you don't need to do all。
this stuff for the next few years and then have the cross.。
I can just give it you now.。
That's a lot of trouble, what you're going to be going through.。
I could just give it you now.。
All you have to do is bow before me, and then you don't need to do that.。
You can have this kingdom, and you won't even need the cross."。
Isn't that the temptation that we have?。
You know, popular culture turns something that maybe young people will be more aware。
of, this idea of friends with benefits, this non-committal life that we want to live for。
our own satisfaction and pleasure.。
Are we Christians with benefits?。
We want the kingdom of God.。
We want all the blessings to come our way, but we don't want to die to ourselves and。
to carry our own crosses.。
And that's the temptation that Jesus was faced with.。
And that's why the Bible tells us that Jesus is our high priest, that he sympathizes with。
our weaknesses because he was tested in every way that we are, for our physical desires,。
for power, for pride, for possessions.。
He was tested in every single way.。
And how did he respond?。
Going back to the Ephesians, the whole armor of God, we talked about the final piece of。
armor was the sword of the Spirit, the Word of God.。
And I asked the question, "When we're faced in battles, do we use our own weapons, our。
own experiences, and our own wisdom, or do we use God's weapons, the Word of God?"。
And we see Jesus here every single time using the Word of God, declaring truth against deceit.。
And he passes the test.。
He passes the test, the enemy leaves him, the angels come and minister to him, he's。
been announced, he's been approved, he's been assessed, he is nearly ready to take。
over the world.。
The final stage is then he assembles.。
Jesus' strategy to redeem the world was to pick a crew of fishermen and tax collectors.。
That's what he did.。
And we carry on and see this in chapter 4, verse 18.。
While walking by the Sea of Galilee, he sees two brothers, Andrew and Simon Peter.。
They're fishing, they're working hard.。
I've talked before how the Jewish culture is quite similar to the Chinese culture, working。
hard, staying in your family.。
And these guys weren't really poor, they weren't the poorest of the poor, they weren't the。
richest of the rich, but they were good people, hard-working people, working with their families.。
And Jesus walks up to them, and then as he's walking up to them, to the Sea of Galilee,。
he says these words that announce his invasion on enemy territory.。
He talks to individuals and he says, "Follow me, and I shall make you fishers of men."。
It's widely recognized that Jesus' first miracle was a wedding at Cana, where he's at a wedding。
and he's having some fun with his friends.。
And his mother comes and tells him off because there's no wine left and she knows that he。
can do something about it.。
And then he says, "Mom, it's not time yet."。
And then mom gives him the eyes and then she walks away and eventually he just does it。
anyway.。
And that is widely known as Jesus' first miracle, right?。
I think this could be counted as his first miracle.。
And I'll tell you why.。
If you're walking in the streets or if you're in your office, you're working, and then a。
strange-looking bearded Jewish man comes up to you and says, "Follow me, and I will make。
you a fisher of men.。
Leave your family, leave your work, leave your commitments, leave everything that you've。
ever known, and follow me."。
They immediately drop their nets and follow him.。
Isn't that a miracle?。
And it's not just Andrew and Simon Peter.。
Later, he keeps walking and he finds two other brothers, James and John, and they're working。
with their father.。
And what do they do?。
And he says the same thing.。
They immediately drop their nets and follow Jesus.。
Jesus' call to us is to follow him, no questions asked.。
You see, the more natural response, if someone comes up to you and says, "Follow me," is,。
"Who are you?"。
And then it's, "Why?。
Where are we going?"。
But they don't do that.。
They just follow him.。
And they leave their father, they leave their families, they leave their business to just。
follow him.。
Another interesting point is this, "Follow me and I will make you fishers of men."。
So he goes to them and he asks them to drop all that they have, but to not to let go of。
who they are.。
He goes to these fishermen and say, "I will make you fishers of men."。
You see, we don't have to deny who we are because we've been made by God.。
We've been fearfully and wonderfully made.。
We've been gifted in a very specific way.。
You have been gifted in a very specific way.。
You have been gifted experience, expertise, education in a very specific field, just like。
these fishermen were.。
And Jesus goes to them and he also goes to you and says, "I want you to glorify me in。
wherever I have placed you."。
He didn't tell them, "Follow me and I will help you shepherd a flock."。
No, he did that to Moses and David because they were shepherds.。
And then he did the fishers of men thing to the fishermen.。
And so the teachers, he will say, "I put you in a school.。
I put you in education for the next generation.。
Educate them.。
Spread the good news where you are."。
For the bankers, "Go and do that and don't steal money from people."。
And then he goes to doctors and says, "Be my hands and feet and go and heal people."。
Jesus is calling you wherever you are, whatever he has gifted you to be in, to give up everything。
you have, but to give him all you are, to live for him, to follow him.。
No questions asked.。
Immediately they drop their nets, their families, their possessions, their familiarities, everything,。
and they follow him.。
That is the King's rise.。
He's announced, he's approved, he's assessed, then he assembles a team.。
So what does that have to do with us?。
What does the King's rise have to do with you sat here right now in 2020 battling cabin。
fever and the coronavirus?。
I want to share just the final few thoughts really just for you to kind of meditate on。
because I think all of us are different.。
The first is this.。
Jesus needs to be announced.。
There are people in your life that he desires for you to announce his arrival to.。
There is someone that you are working with, living with, or hanging out with who doesn't。
know him yet.。
And not asking you to suddenly start wearing camel's hair and eat locusts and honey, but。
it's your job to announce Jesus to them.。
It's your job to tell them that in this season of bad news, of hopelessness, that there is。
good news coming.。
It's your job to be the narrator and say, "Hey, it's bad, but let me introduce you to。
someone."。
It's our job to prepare the way for Jesus to enter into their lives and then do exactly。
what John did and get out the way.。
But it's up to us to start by announcing first.。
Then Jesus was approved.。
And that message that God said about Jesus, if you've been baptized, if you've put your。
faith in him, if you live for him, that statement now applies to you.。
That the spirit of Jesus now lives inside you, that you now can call God Abba Father.。
You now are a child of God.。
You are a co-heir of Christ.。
You are an ambassador for heaven.。
You are loved.。
And with you, he is well pleased.。
You have a mission.。
It's not why you are loved, but you are loved and you have a mission and he is pleased with。
you and he approves of you.。
So go, make disciples of all nations.。
Go, tell the world about him.。
You are approved.。
Have that courage.。
And finally, he comes to you now and he asks you, drop whatever you have, whatever fears。
and anxieties you have and follow me.。
Don't ask any more questions.。
If you know who I am, if you trust in my name, if you trust what I did for you, then don't。
worry about these earthly things and just follow me.。
Why?。
You may ask.。
Because he is king and he is risen.。
And if you believe that, if you believe that once upon a time, there was a man named Jesus。
who lived in heaven but then came to earth to redeem mankind.。
He went onto a cross and died but three days later, resurrected and then ascended to heaven。
and he one day will come back again.。
If you believe that story, if you believe those events, then you do not need to ask。
any more questions.。
Follow him.。
Can I pray?。
Father, I thank you that you, God Almighty, creator of all, deemed us worthy to even know。
who you are.。
It is your spirit that revealed yourself to us.。
And in light of the fact that you are king, we bow before you.。
And we pray that not only are you king of the universe but that you would be the king。
of our lives.。
That you would be the king of every decision that we make.。
Lord, that in everything that we do, you are part of it.。
And just like Jesus, who faced trials and temptations, we stick close to your word.。
We hide your word in our hearts just like it says in Psalms so that we might not sin。
against you.。
We meditate on your word day and night.。
But Lord, help us on the days where we find that hard.。
Thank you for initiatives like one where we're able to gain access to your word in a fresh。
way.。
But I pray now for every brother and sister here as they engage in battle, as they are。
assessed, as they face life's challenges.。
Lord may they be able to distill your still small voice in the midst of all these other。
distractions.。
May we all be gifted with the opportunity to be still, to know that you are God.。
So Jesus, our king, we are flawed.。
We're not able to do it every day, but right now we choose to follow you.。
And we pray all these things in your name.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
