- Good evening, everyone.。
Can you hear me?。
I feel like I can't hear myself.。
Okay.。
It's great to be with you guys.。
I'm really glad to be sharing a message today.。
It's been on my heart to share about what it really means to bear one another's burden.。
Because many a times, you just think that we can come into faith, and this is a one-to-one。
thing where it's a relationship between just us and God.。
But God has actually given us a community to be with.。
And we've not only called to have a one-on-one relationship with God, but we've been called。
to have a relationship with the people around us in the community.。
And so today, we're gonna be looking at how we can bear one another's burden by looking。
at Galatians chapter six, verse one to two.。
Now before we get to that, I do wanna tell you a little bit of a background of what the。
book of Galatians was like.。
Now at that time, it was actually a letter written by Apostle Paul, and he was telling。
the churches in Galatia an issue that was disturbing them.。
Now what was the issue?。
The issue was that there were agitators, and they were telling the people that even though。
you have believed in Jesus, you still needed to follow the laws that were handed down by。
Moses.。
And now, Apostle Paul knew that this isn't right, so he wrote letters.。
And this letter, all six chapters address the different points that he wanted to tell。
the people there.。
And so as we look into this book, this is what we're gonna see.。
And so he's been trying to tell them that don't live by the laws, don't just follow。
them like rules, instead live in the spirit.。
And if you, one of the more famous passages from Galatians chapter five is that, the fruit。
of the spirits, and do you know all the fruit of the spirits?。
Yes.。
Love, joy, peace, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness.。
Don't forget patience, yes.。
Self-control.。
And why is it that he's asking them to do that?。
Is because right before then, he's saying that you need to live by the spirit.。
It doesn't mean that the law doesn't matter anymore, because the law is actually lived。
through the spirit.。
What that means is when you live by the spirit and have all these fruits, you have already。
followed the laws.。
And what does the law say?。
The law actually wanted people to be away from the flesh.。
What was the flesh?。
So it would be being jealous of one another, envy, it would be ways that we would just。
wanna be a part of, we wanna take over what people have.。
And so, Apostle Paul really is telling everyone, "Hey, don't live in the flesh, but instead。
live in the spirit."。
And then he started introducing to us what it means to live in the spirit as a community.。
And that's when we get to chapter six.。
So I've just given you the background and now I want us to read together Galatians six。
verse one to two.。
Okay, shall we read it together?。
All right, one, two, three.。
"Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in。
the spirit of gentleness.。
Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted.。
Bear one another's burden and so fulfill the law of Christ."。
Now when you first read this, you're like, "Yeah, I think I pretty much get the whole。
verse.。
Are we gonna spend like all 30 minutes on this?"。
Well, yes and no.。
So when you first read this, I don't know about you, but I started to have some questions.。
For example, when Paul says that we're to restore someone in the spirit of gentleness,。
what does that mean?。
I mean, I get all the words spirit and gentleness, but how is that different from just gentleness?。
And when he keeps going and says, "Lest you be tempted."。
Now why would we be tempted if we were trying to restore someone?。
If we were trying to ask people, "Hey, don't steal."。
Does it mean that I'm gonna be tempted in stealing?。
And also we keep reading and there's this bear one another's burden.。
We understand all those words, but what does that really look like in our everyday life?。
And also he also says that it is to fulfill the law of Christ.。
Now I explained a little bit about that earlier, but you know that the law of Christ, this。
phrase, it's only found here.。
It has only appeared in the Bible once.。
So now what is he trying to say?。
So we will get to all those one at a time, but I do want to start us off by thinking。
about when we bear in one another's burden, the very first thing that Apostle Paul is。
telling us is that it is in Jesus' way.。
What does it mean to be in Jesus' way?。
That means that when we bear one another's burden, we're not doing it in our way.。
We're not doing it in the flesh or how people tell us, but we're doing it in Jesus' way.。
And now we can see that he's actually used the spirit of gentleness to tell us about。
that.。
Now when we use it in Jesus' spirit, what is really the main difference?。
Now the English word for gentleness, it means to be tender, to be kind, but in our sense,。
in the biblical sense, when we're talking about the spirit of gentleness, it's more。
than that.。
Do you know what that is?。
It is when we have compassion for someone else.。
It is when we can stand in their shoes and say, "We understand.。
Why is it that this has happened to you?"。
Now let me explain a little bit more and maybe it'll give you a more flavor to that.。
Well it means that when, I remember there were, when I was a kid, wait a minute, I'd。
actually never stole cookies, but somebody did steal cookies and they would steal the。
cookie and what would they do?。
When they were caught, they would be scared.。
Why?。
Because they knew that they would be condemned, probably by parents or by teachers.。
And so they weren't looking forward to that.。
And I mean, we don't have to even go to kids.。
We can go to our dogs.。
I mean, when I used to have a dog, he would take my socks and he would chew it up.。
And you know, when I come home, I would never be able to find him.。
But when I did, you know that his ear is going to be dripped down and he's going to have。
that innocent look on his face.。
Why?。
Only so that I won't condemn him and that I won't punish him.。
Now you might be thinking, "What does the dog and that have to do with us, gentleness?"。
Well really it's trying to tell us that remember when Jesus, actually when the Pharisees in。
the scribes brought a lady who was caught in adultery to Jesus and they asked Jesus,。
"What shall we do with him in order to test him?"。
And Jesus said that...。
They said that, "What does the law say?"。
The law asks for punishment.。
And so Jesus said, "All right, well anybody who has not sinned, you can stone her to death."。
And now from the old to the young, they left because everyone has sinned.。
And so Jesus then stood up and told the woman, "Where's everybody?"。
"Well, neither will I condemn you, but do not sin anymore."。
And so we can see that in the spirit of gentleness, we have this first point that when we bear。
one another's burden in Jesus' way, the very first way is we do it in his spirit, having。
his character.。
This is not about us being nice to someone.。
It is about us living out the spirit of God so that people will know who God is.。
And so when we bear each other's burdens, we who first do it in his spirit, and that。
would be doing it Jesus' way.。
Now as we read on, we're going to see that because Jesus doesn't only address to one。
group of people, he actually addresses to different people and their different needs.。
And the second way that I want to say that we can bear each other's burden is that we。
need to address to all the people's burdens, to all the people at all times.。
Now Jesus never says, "Oh, well, I can take care of this person's sickness, but I won't。
take care of this person."。
He's not.。
He shows no partiality.。
He's going to help this person.。
He's going to help that person when they need it.。
And so when we're following Jesus, we're doing the same thing.。
We're not choosing people that we know a bit better so that we'll just help those.。
And we're not choosing, "Oh, this burden seems easy.。
I think I'll go for this one.。
That one's kind of hard.。
I'm going to save it for Pastor John or someone else."。
No, we're going to be just like Jesus when we carry each other's burdens.。
And this, Jesus tells us that when we bear each other's burden, we're actually fulfilling。
the law of Christ.。
Now this is very important because we want to fulfill God and what he requires of us.。
And yet it tells us that in here, we're not just meeting it like those items on a rule.。
We're not meeting it like, "Oh, I've done this.。
I've done this.。
I've done this."。
No, he's saying that the law of Christ, what is that?。
And if we have read it before, that the Bible says Jesus has summed it up and that the first。
one is to love your God with all your heart, with all your mind, with all your soul, with。
all your heart.。
And then the second one is what?。
Love your neighbor as yourself.。
And so the third way really for us to be bearing one another's burden in Jesus' way is that。
we are loving them, not because there's a rule that says we need to, but because we。
genuinely care and love for them like Jesus does.。
And so we want to give you a bit of flavor about what that really is, because in this。
passage we can see that Apostle Paul has used this example to show us that the spirit of。
gentleness was for when someone was caught in a transgression.。
But there are other fruits of the spirit, other characters of those, that in different。
scenarios we're going to carry them out too.。
So for example, instead of condemning someone when they're caught, we mentioned that we're。
going to be compassionate about them.。
Now, instead of being angry, we're going to be kind to them.。
So there are all these different ways.。
And when we see that someone has a need, we're going to use, or Holy Spirit is going to help。
us so that one of the characteristics or more of the characteristics of the spirit is being。
manifested.。
So today we're very glad that we're able to invite one of our clan leader, Josh, to help。
us share about how it is that in our everyday life we're going to see that in action.。
So let's give him a warm welcome.。
No, I'm going to sit down.。
Hey everyone.。
For those of you who don't know me, my name is Josh.。
I'm one of the clan leaders here.。
And Michelle asked me to kind of come up during this part and share a little bit about how。
community and bearing with one another's burdens can look like in real life.。
But before I do, let me just ask you, what is a burden?。
Do you guys know?。
What are some of the burdens that we have?。
Any thoughts?。
There are lots of different things which are included in the concept of burdens, whether。
it be sin, whether it be challenges, whether it be temptations, like it says in verse one,。
these are the burdens that Paul is calling for us as Christians to bear.。
So I was part of a small group back many years ago when I was much, much younger.。
And we came together because we felt through reading scripture, like this passage, that。
we should gather together in community and help each other bear with temptations and。
with the challenges of sin, like it says in verse one.。
And I think a lot of church groups, a lot of Christians, they know that this is something。
that we should do.。
How many of you guys have heard something similar, that we should gather in community?。
Okay.。
Oh, not that many of you.。
Okay.。
Let me tell you first, you should gather together in community because there's a lot of things。
which we are called to do as Christians, which are not easy to do.。
A lot of temptations to avoid, a lot of accountability to be had.。
So we came together to read the word of God, to pray together, to hold each other accountable,。
all the good Christian stuff.。
But one day we were gathered and one of the people in our small group had a very serious。
medical emergency.。
His knee ruptured, like that.。
It exploded while he was doing some sporting activity, which he really shouldn't have been。
doing and it was a mess.。
And he was visiting Hong Kong for a medium term amount of time.。
He didn't have access to public healthcare and as such he couldn't fix his knee.。
So he couldn't walk, he couldn't get it fixed, he couldn't fly to go back home to the States。
to get his knee fixed.。
And so he was kind of stuck.。
Now we were all in our group, we were quite young and poor.。
Many of us were still in uni, some of us were just starting our careers.。
But as we considered the word of God and we read that we should bear one another's burdens,。
we realized that those burdens didn't just mean praying for one another, dealing with。
sin, helping each other with temptation, but also with practical realities as well.。
It also includes, by the way, bearing with one another's questions and patience, but。
we'll get to that another time.。
So we came together and we helped him out.。
We paid for all of his medical bills as a group.。
Thankfully we were a somewhat large group at the time, so we were able to chip in enough。
money to pay for his medical bills so that he could get a knee reconstruction surgery,。
he'd get all the swelling taken out.。
He healed up, managed to make it back to the States in one piece, injured his knee again。
but then got better, and it was good.。
You know, one of the things that happened as a result of us obeying the word of God。
was that our community, our small group, became so much closer than I'd ever thought possible.。
Some of you who know my current small group know that we're really tight.。
We're like a spiritual family.。
We do everything together.。
We go on vacations together, we hang out with one another.。
That really started from that one moment.。
When we are not only praying for one another, not only encouraging one another to deal with。
sin, but we also help each other, you know, putting people through university, making。
sure that we are always looking out for one another physically.。
If someone's father, like say, has a stroke and they need help with medical support, we。
all chip in in those areas.。
That really draws us together in community.。
I would encourage us as a church that we are called to bear with one another's burdens,。
both spiritual and physical, both in the church when it comes to dealing with the many challenges。
of temptation, but also practical as well.。
And you know, there are so many challenges that face Christians today, with so many different。
polarizing opinions out there, so many different ways to get angry at stuff.。
We can hold each other accountable in having right attitudes and in dealing with many of。
the challenges of hate that exist, but we can also support one another.。
So I would encourage you, if you're not part of a community now, if you're not part of。
a small group, what we call clans here, our community life and nurture groups, if you're。
not part of one of those, I would encourage you to take part, to be part of that community.。
And as you are, feel free to invest in one another.。
Help one another as you deal with temptations or challenges.。
Help the other people in your clan who might be struggling with actual physical medical。
conditions or hardships.。
If someone needs help with looking after their newborn kid, help them out with that.。
I would encourage...。
Wow, it took you guys really long, right?。
Yeah.。
So...。
No, no, it's cool, it's cool.。
But I would say, you know, honestly, I have been super blessed.。
Being part of my small group, which is the same small group after many years, has been。
one of the most incredible experiences of my life, and I would not have been able to。
survive through so many of the different stages of my life and the many challenges that I've。
faced over the last six, seven years if it wasn't for my clan.。
So if you guys aren't part of one, I would really encourage you to look into getting。
one, getting to be part of one.。
I know there's several starting, I know that Michelle is starting a bunch of new ones,。
I know that there are a lot that are looking to grow.。
So yeah, I would really say it's one of the best things ever.。
It does take a little bit of work, a lot of crazy people in there, but it's awesome to。
be part of a community in the church.。
So I encourage you guys with that.。
Thank you, Josh.。
I mean, as Josh was sharing, I think one of the things that I really saw in those moments。
when they chipped in, when they were there for one another, you know what that was?。
That they were loving one another just like they would for themselves.。
So I think that's beautiful, how he shared it.。
And so when we do that, when we're in a community, when we support one another and carry each。
other's burdens, we're able to fulfill the law of Christ.。
So now as we move on to look at, there are other things that these two verses are telling。
us that we need to watch out.。
Now one of the things is we need to watch out for ourselves.。
Now remember the line where it says, "Watch out that you don't be tempted."。
Remember that one?。
It's right, "Keep watch on yourself, least you be tempted."。
Now all of a sudden he mentions this.。
Why does he do that?。
Now because, imagine this, that you're helping out that person, you're helping out this person,。
and before you know it, what do you feel like?。
You feel like a superman.。
You're like a superwoman, right?。
And very soon maybe they were sharing with you about some burdens that they have, and。
it's easy for us to start judging them and start saying that, "Oh, I'm so much better.。
I'm so much smarter, I'm able to withhold these things, and I'm not having problems。
in these areas."。
So it's easy for us that when we're helping someone, when we're carrying other people's。
burden that we will fall into this trap.。
So really Paul is telling us, "Watch out.。
Keep watch for yourself."。
Because if we don't, we can easily then fall into that trap and someone will have to get。
us out, right?。
Someone will have to tell us and carry our burden for falling in that trap.。
And so another thing that we have to do is that when we do that, when we know that we。
can easily be tempted to, it makes us know that we're human beings.。
Remember I said, "You don't wanna think that you're a superhero."。
We're just human beings.。
And the only way that we were ever able to not fall into certain transgressions or not。
have certain weakness was only because God had been sustaining us.。
And so when we recognize that and when we acknowledge that we might fall into temptation。
and watch for ourselves, we're able to prevent that from happening and we're able to know。
that we are just humans.。
And you know what's the best part about being just humans?。
That means we don't have to be perfect.。
It means that after you've tried to help someone, tried to carry their burden, and somehow if。
it still didn't work out, that it's okay.。
It's okay to be humans.。
And at the same time, once we're able to overcome that temptation, once we're able to say, "Hey,。
I was so close to being tempted, but God helped me through maybe reading the Bible or maybe。
he just reminded me that, hey, this is happening.。
I'm realizing that there's a change in my emotions towards a certain person after I've。
helped them."。
Then we're able to help others and we're able to help ourselves because we become stronger。
Christians and we are able then to be a more mature Christian.。
So throughout this, while we're bearing each other's burden, while we're carrying these。
out, not only do we carry them out in Jesus' way, but at the same time, we need to watch。
out to make sure that we don't fall into any temptations.。
Now the last part is that we bear each other's burden knowing that it takes two.。
I wanted to say it takes two to tangle, but I actually don't know how to tangle, so I。
thought I'll leave that out.。
So it takes two.。
What does that mean?。
If you are going to bear one another, it means that there's someone bearing and there's someone。
allowing you to bear.。
And what that means is, first thing is we need each other.。
I mean, all of us need each other.。
There's not one person here that never needs someone else and they can just live by themselves.。
Wait, saving Private Ryan, was there someone that lived by himself?。
But we're not called for that.。
We were called to live in a community where we need one another.。
Because sometimes I'm weak and you're able to help me.。
Sometimes you're weak and I'm able to help you.。
Hopefully we're not weak at the same time, but even if we were, we can help each other.。
And so knowing that we need each other is a way for us to humble ourselves.。
And at the same time, if we're the one that needs our burdens to be carried, we actually。
have the responsibility to speak up.。
Now I know some of us like to go solo.。
Some of us don't want to burden other people.。
Some of us think that if we have to depend on someone, it's a sign of weakness.。
But really it isn't.。
When we are able to speak up, it is speaking from a sign of humility and also a sign of。
strength.。
Because we're able to recognize that, "Hey, it's okay.。
I'm a human being and I can accept myself to be imperfect."。
That is strength and humility.。
And it's okay that if I tell someone about it, I'm not worried that because they know。
this, now they're going to look badly at me.。
And even if they are, I'm so confident that it doesn't matter.。
I'm not going to be affected by it.。
So when we're able to speak up of our needs, it is standing from a position of strength.。
And so for us to learn that role is so important.。
Because if we don't, then we can end up just being by ourselves, not getting the support。
that we need from the community that God has blessed us with.。
Now the other part, of course, the other party is that we need to be intentional.。
We need to be intentional in helping the people that aren't able to speak up.。
Because sometimes, just like us today, sitting here today, you're not going to know the things。
that the other person is going through if we're not intentional about it.。
Because we can all have a nice smile and we can ask, "Hey, how are you doing?"。
And you know what?。
We get the standard answer, "Oh, I'm good.。
I'm fine."。
And that's it, right?。
And then maybe there's this awkward silence and we're not sure quite what to do with it.。
But if we're intentional, we can ask open-ended questions.。
So maybe we can ask instead of, "Hey, how's it going?"。
Which we kind of know the standard answer.。
We can ask things like, "Hey, what has been on your mind lately?"。
Unless they say blank, but most likely not.。
They're usually going to share with you, "Oh, I was worried about this.。
My exam's coming up."。
Or, "I had a fight with someone."。
And so it starts a conversation and we have to be intentional.。
And of course, when we start that conversation, it also means that if we're intentional, we。
have to set aside some time to really listen to what is happening in their lives.。
So today, I actually want to share with you a story recently that happened.。
And I think it really spoke to me about what it means to bear each other's burden.。
So last week, I was off the entire week.。
I got the whole week to go to my school so that I could study for an intensive course.。
So I was in day four.。
Okay, what an intensive course means is that we start early at nine and finish at five.。
And the only break that we get is the lunch break.。
I mean, we do get snippets of breaks, but pretty much is the whole day.。
So I was on my fourth day exhausted.。
And of course, last week, I happened to be preaching as well.。
So I was trying to work on my sermon at nighttime and trying to get that done.。
So I was exhausted, but I was very happy because it was Thursday evening.。
So I can see the light at the end of the tunnel.。
And I thought, "All right, just a little bit more and it'll be there."。
So I was just very comfortable getting water at the pantry.。
And then I see my classmate walking in and just doing my standard thing.。
I gave them the nice smile and I said, "Hey, how's it going?"。
I was not very intentional there.。
I was hoping for the "I'm okay" answer.。
So I just getting water, "Hey, how's it going?"。
And then she said, "I'm not doing well."。
She said, "Something happened at my church," which actually was unexpected because I actually。
looked at my app and my bus was 10 minutes away.。
So I was thinking I will catch it right after I get the water, even though the bus stop。
is right outside.。
So I was like, "Oh, well."。
So struggling a bit, but I said, "Oh, so what happened?"。
I wanted to know within five minutes time frame.。
And then she said, "My brother from church, much older, is an older man.。
He just committed suicide yesterday."。
And so when I heard that, I was like, "Oh."。
And I was just feeling synced because I've also had family members who had that issue.。
And so I really thought, "Wow, this is so sad.。
How is she doing?"。
So I said, "How did it happen?。
What happened?"。
And so she said, "Actually, this man, he has been going to our church for a few years now.。
He's baptized and he comes to all of our whatever outings we have, whatever activities we have,。
he comes to all of those."。
And this was really shocking.。
And even last week, he was at the prayer meeting.。
And so when I heard that, I was like, "This is really bad."。
Now I just want to show you the flesh side of me, the human side of me.。
I was actually checking the clock in the back to see if I would catch my bus.。
And I really struggled because I thought to myself, "All right, I have to wake up at seven。
in the morning the next day to go to class.。
I do want to ask her more and to give her some comfort."。
But I also thought about the sermon that was not done.。
And I also thought about, you know, I'm actually a pastor at KFCI, and I thought I didn't even。
get a chance to call all of my members.。
And so all of that, of course, you know, I'm just telling you the human side of me.。
And all of that just flashed by in like two seconds.。
And at the same time, I believe it was the spirit of love that was speaking in my heart.。
I looked at her more intensely as she was still talking, and I saw that God has put。
her in front of me at this time, in this moment, not someone else, but me.。
And at the same time as I was looking at her, I felt that God loved her.。
And I thought to myself, "If God loved her, and I'm his vessel because he has saved me。
from all my sins, shouldn't I be looking after her at this time?。
I mean, what is another 30 minutes to me?。
The next bus comes in 35 minutes, just FYI."。
And so after that struggle, I thought, "You know what?。
Forget about the bus, okay?。
Be here, be present."。
And so I said, "Tell me more.。
Tell me more what happened.。
How are you feeling?。
How are they?"。
And so she told me about how they used to be at church, and then they would pass by。
each other, they would have these little conversations, and how shocking it was for her.。
And so we chatted, and then we had a nice time to pray.。
We prayed together.。
We also prayed for that man's family, because they were non-Christians, and we're thinking。
about using a non-Christian type of memorial.。
So we prayed for their families also to have that peace in this time, because it was so。
shocking.。
And so we parted ways.。
Before we parted, I gave her the coronavirus forbidden hug, and then we left, and I went。
to take the next bus that was just about to come.。
And so when I got onto the bus, I was really thinking to myself, and I was praying at the。
same time, telling God, "Thank you.。
Thank you for allowing me to be carrying her burden just a little bit.。
Thank you for allowing me to be there."。
And then as I was just, you know, the bus taking off, I thought about that old man.。
I thought about the old man, and I just thought, "Did nobody take notice of his sadness?。
Did nobody care about how he was doing?"。
Because he actually committed suicide at two in the afternoon.。
And I thought about that.。
And I also thought, "Did he not develop any friendships in the small group that was deep。
enough and safe enough for him to call at that moment when he couldn't take it anymore?"。
And I just kept on thinking about the old man, and I thought, "What if somebody took。
notice of him?。
Would things have been different?。
What if somebody took an extra 15 minutes and sat with him?"。
And I thought, "Oh, were they all kind of like me, who was trying to catch the earlier。
bus and was in such a rush?。
Maybe they had to go home to cook for their kids.。
Maybe they have to prepare their homework.。
And maybe there were so many other things.。
Maybe they were even preparing for next week's Sunday school materials."。
And so as we, as I was on the bus and going home, I really thought to myself, I thought。
that today I actually didn't write a sermon.。
I actually got to live out a sermon.。
And I realized I didn't do it at all, because in my flesh, I was going to catch that earlier。
bus.。
But it was in the spirit that allowed me to partner with God in that moment to carry someone's。
burden.。
Of course, I would always wonder if someone had carried that old man's burden, had spent。
an extra few minutes there, what would have happened?。
But nobody would know.。
And so I really reflected thinking about all this, and I think that's fulfilling God's。
law when he says, "Bear each other's burden."。
Because I felt that on the day, God helped me to love her, which was somebody that was。
on God's heart.。
And so today, my friends, I wanted to say that God's not asking us to do something very,。
very hard.。
He's not asking us to part the Red Sea or to walk on water, but he is asking us to bear。
one another's burden.。
And how can we do that?。
And for some of us, it might just be not catching this bus, but the next one, so that I can。
have an open ear and pray.。
And for others, it might be that we'll all chip in, and then we'll help with some medical。
bills of someone.。
And for others even more, it might just be giving that new person, that welcome of new。
people today, just welcoming that person.。
Maybe they're going through some hard things too, and just saying, "Wait, what has been。
on your mind lately?"。
And that would have helped to carry one another's burden.。
And so I just wanted to close today to say that God didn't meant for us to be alone.。
He meant for us to be in a community, and our faith is not meant that God saved us so。
we can enjoy a comfortable...。
Well, we are very comfortable still, but not to only enjoy a comfortable Christian life,。
but he has asked us, has called us to be his vessels, because we have been broken before,。
and yet he has redeemed us.。
And he's asking us to extend the same amount of love to others.。
And we do wanna do that.。
And so I don't know who's here or even watching our Facebook videos, maybe there's something。
on your heart that you're struggling with.。
I just wanted to say that it's okay to tell us about it.。
It's okay that we walk together and bear each other's burden, because we were meant to,。
God asked us to.。
And so if that's you, please come and tell us.。
And for us who are the ones that are able to bear others, let's stay alert, let's look。
around.。
I mean, not like a detective, okay, but really to pay attention, to see, has anybody, even。
though they've been coming to church every week, even though they seem to have a smiley。
face, what's happening with that person?。
Let us take initiative and go and really see how other people are doing.。
And so I'm just praying that God is helping us along the way to do all these things, which。
is to bear one another's burden in his spirit, in the way that he would do it.。
And at the same time, check our hearts all the time, and also for us to learn that we。
need one another.。
And so we'll ask the worship band to come and we'll pray together, that really for us。
to know how we can serve our King, how we can be a vessel to him in different times。
of the day, in different ways that we might not even have thought of.。
So let's pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for saving us.。
You have so many brokenness and weaknesses, and yet in Jesus, you have made us new, you。
have made us whole.。
And Father, we thank you for this spiritual community that we have, that we can lean on。
one another.。
We don't have to be by ourselves.。
You have given us a spirit that lives inside of us, and you've also given people around。
us so that we can love one another, we can bear each other's burdens.。
And Father, we're just praying that whenever you want us to be your vessel, that whenever。
you want us to have a pair of listening ears, or just to walk alongside with someone, or。
that we can pay for something that people need.。
Father, whatever that may be, I pray that your spirit stirs in us, so that in the moment。
when you want to do something, Father, that we're right there to partner with you.。
We know that this is a gift that you've given us.。
It is a blessing that we're able to bear one another's burden.。
And so Father, we thank you for this honor, and we thank you that you have saved us.。
And this is the beginning of everything.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
