(audio cuts out)。
- Good evening, everyone.。
My name is Michelle,。
and I serve as one of the pastors here.。
This is your very first time.。
Nice to meet you.。
Now we live in a day and age。
where everything seems to be true。
as long as you have enough conviction。
and passion about it.。
I mean, we hear about these slimming products, right?。
We wanna slim down ourselves,。
or we hear these hair growth products,。
or we have all these books that teach us。
how to be successful, or just get the right stocks。
so then we can have more money, right?。
And so we tend to just follow things here and there,。
and we think that, oh, this is true, or that is true.。
And we're tossed and turned around。
as if we're in the waves.。
And so today we're really gonna look at what is the truth?。
What is the truth that Paul here really urges。
and commands Timothy to uphold?。
And how is it that we can uphold it in our everyday lives?。
And as the scripture is here in 1 Timothy,。
the very first chapter,。
now Apostle Paul here is charging Timothy,。
who literally is brought up in faith by Paul.。
And he's saying to him, "Stay there," verse three,。
"in Ephesus so that you may command certain people,"。
not everyone, just some,。
"not to teach false doctrines any longer,。
"or to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies.。
"Such things promote controversial speculations。
"rather than advancing God's work, which is by faith."。
Now we look at this and we know that, okay,。
there are false teachings,。
but what are they?。
Now, Paul does not specify exactly what those are,。
but we actually look and reference to chapter six, verse three。
which we're not gonna look at, but I will let you know.。
What is it?。
They are the things that go against Jesus's teaching.。
And they are the things that don't bring people。
to godliness.。
And so whatever those things are,。
those are the false teachings that Paul is addressing here.。
And at the same time,。
these people also devote themselves to myths。
and endless genealogies.。
And myths are like those far-fetched stories.。
They're like things, they're stories,。
made up ones about gods of other sorts.。
And also what are endless genealogies?。
Well, at those times, people like to look at the bloodline。
to see what it is that they're entitled to,。
rather it's priesthood that they can do or other things.。
And so they just spend all this time doing all these things.。
And that's why Apostle Paul's telling Timothy,。
"Hey, stay there,。
"because there's all these things that are going on."。
And not only that,。
but they would promote controversial speculations.。
They might be about how did things happen in the past。
or things about how are they gonna happen in the future?。
And actually in a similar sense,。
we might be like that today as well.。
We might believe in myths and stories.。
We actually are quite interested sometimes。
when people tell us,。
"Hey, you know, this is probably how things have happened。
"in the past."。
And we're like, "Oh, tell me more about it."。
'Cause it's fascinating to hear these stories.。
Or we're interested in mythological things。
or mysterious things.。
And sometimes when we hear about angelic beings,。
our ears turn up like, "Oh, tell me more.。
"I wanna know more about angels."。
Or like, "What's going to happen?。
"What about end time?"。
And I have friends who would say,。
"Oh, you know what?。
"Jesus is gonna come back during my lifetime."。
And I'll be like, "Oh, how do you know about that?"。
And they will say, "Well, I just know。
"this is gonna happen."。
And so they tend to base it on things。
that are just myths, stories,。
or things that give them a hunch.。
And then also, we spend also time。
where sometimes we might match the current events。
with what's happening in the Bible, right?。
Oh, this is the symbol it stands for.。
And if we have a certain leader。
that we think are unethical,。
we might say, "Oh, look, they have the sign。
"of the mark of 666, that's Satan."。
And so we start having all these speculations.。
But what it's really saying here,。
and if we go to verse six,。
and it tells us that some of them。
have departed from these which are the truth。
and have turned into meaningless talks.。
And what is Paul's really trying to tell Timothy。
and also to us is that stay focused。
on what's important, which is the truth。
in which we will look at.。
And you see, these people in verse seven,。
they said, "They want to be teachers of law,。
"but they do not know what they're talking about。
"or what they so confidently affirm."。
So what we do see is that these people,。
they don't lack aspiration.。
They wanna be teachers of law,。
so they have this desire.。
And also, they're confidently affirmed。
in what they wanna talk about.。
So what that tells us is they're really zealous for it,。
they're passionate about it.。
But just because they have these two things,。
it's not enough, because here,。
they don't have the most crucial thing,。
which in the scripture, it tells us,。
they do not know what they are talking about.。
So what is it that they lack?。
Understanding.。
They don't have understanding.。
And so this brings us to our first point,。
which is in order to uphold the truth,。
we must have true understanding of it.。
Now, we might be thinking, well, what is true understanding?。
Well, the teachers and all these false teachers。
seem to get it at some level.。
They're like, okay, I get this, I get that.。
But they don't have true understanding.。
And what we see is that Apostle Paul。
actually struggled with that as well.。
At some point in his life,。
he was actually persecuting Christians.。
And here in verse 13, he even wove in his own experience,。
and he said, "I was once a blasphemer,。
a persecutor, a violent man," and see what he says,。
"and acted in ignorance and unbelief."。
He also claimed that at some point in his life,。
he was ignorant.。
He had no idea what the real meaning is, what's important.。
And that's what happened with the false teacher.。
They don't have true understanding.。
And later we see that Paul had such a big turnaround。
that he actually told us what is the proper use of the law.。
And we see in verse nine, he names it out.。
"The law is made not for the righteous.。
"It isn't that these laws will gain you righteousness,。
"but it is for the lawbreakers, the rebels,。
"the ungodly and the sinful, the unholy, irreligious,。
"for those who kill their fathers or mothers,。
"for those murderers, for the sexually immoral,。
"practicing homosexual, slave traders, liars,。
"perjurers, and whatever else。
"is contrary to the sound doctrine."。
And once he had this full understanding。
of what the truth is, he knows also。
what the meaning is for the law and how to use it.。
Now I wanna kind of give an example。
about how sometimes we kind of get things,。
but we don't really get it.。
I mean, for example, you might have a girlfriend。
or your wife may ask you,。
"Oh, I would like some flowers."。
Okay, so yes, on the surface level, they want flowers.。
And that's how we can understand it too, you know?。
But really, what is the true meaning or the goal behind it。
is actually that she wants the guy。
to display the adoration and the love that he has for her.。
Now, if he gets that,。
then that means he understood the true meaning。
of why he asked for flowers.。
And on the contrary, the same,。
when the boyfriend or the husband says to his girl,。
"Listen to what I say."。
And on the surface, it's like。
just listening to what he wants.。
And if we get that as the female or as the girl,。
then we only understand the surface level of it.。
But what is it that's the goal。
or what is it that's the meaning behind it?。
Well, what he's really desiring is respect。
and also trust when he tells the girl to do something.。
So in a similar way, you know,。
we might understand the Bible。
or we might understand the truth,。
but only in the surface level.。
And if we don't understand the meaning behind it,。
then we've missed the point,。
we've missed the goal of what the truth is talking about.。
And so here we see that the false teachers。
have misunderstood a few things.。
They devoted themselves to the wrong things。
and they don't even know how to use law properly.。
And they don't know where righteousness come from,。
which is Jesus, and they've missed the goal.。
And in verse five, it tells us the goal of everything。
and the truth is love.。
So how do we experience,。
how is it possible that we can have this true understanding?。
'Cause I mean, okay, now we have established。
a true understanding is important.。
We need to know the meaning and the goal behind everything.。
But how is it that we can achieve it?。
Well, if we look at the false teacher and Paul,。
what is their greatest difference?。
I mean, what's the difference between them,。
these false teachers and Apostle Paul?。
What's the difference?。
Well, the difference is that Paul had experienced this truth。
and the false teacher did not.。
What does it mean to experience something?。
Well, it's kind of like,。
what if you had to explain to someone。
what it's like to swim?。
And if you've never swam yourself,。
you might've heard about what it is。
so you can tell them all the correct description about it.。
Oh, swimming is like this, it's like this, it's like this.。
But then even as you're seeing it,。
you don't truly understand what it feels like to swim。
unless you go and get into the water。
and you start like moving your arms。
and allow that water to splash your head.。
And in the same way,。
the truth cannot be fully understood。
unless we've experienced it.。
Now, I don't wanna say that any kind of experience。
that you have make that a truth, okay?。
Just because you've experienced something。
and it has worked for you, it doesn't mean it's a truth.。
But if it is truth and the gospel,。
the salvation of our Jesus Christ, our Lord is true,。
then we should and we need to experience it.。
And that's when it's real to us.。
That's when we have conviction。
and that's where we will gain true understanding.。
And so here it brings us,。
and here it brings us to an important part,。
which is unless we have true experience of the truth,。
we will always stay at just the surface level。
of understanding it.。
So we must get ourselves wet,。
we must get into the water。
and truly experience this truth.。
And so in here, in verse 14,。
when Paul had experiences for his own,。
for his personal firsthand experience,。
this is what he said,。
"The grace of our Lord was poured out on me abundantly,。
along with the faith and the love that are in Christ Jesus."。
Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance.。
"Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners,。
of whom I am the worst."。
Now, you see, he could not fully understand this statement。
until he himself was shown grace.。
And in order that he would be shown grace,。
it's a very crucial enlightenment that he must have,。
which is that he is a sinner.。
And in here, he clearly says, "Of whom I am the worst."。
And you see, because he saw how much sins he had,。
he was able to comprehend,。
to experience the amount of grace。
he also received from the Lord.。
And so if we have only experienced a little bit of sin,。
well, we can only experience a little bit of his mercy.。
And maybe that's our problem.。
I mean, how many of you here,。
you can fully say that I am the worst of all sinners?。
Put up your hand if there's one out there.。
Oh, there's one hand.。
Oh, there's another one.。
There's another one, maybe here and there.。
But you know, we're somehow like,。
we don't even wanna go all the way, right?。
We're like, yeah, kind of.。
You know, there's always someone worse than me.。
You know, I can't, I don't know if I'm the worst.。
And I'm not saying that, you know,。
go out and do something bad。
so you are the worst after you repent, okay?。
It's not my point.。
But my point is maybe our problem。
is that we don't really think we're that bad.。
I mean, we haven't killed anybody.。
I hope, okay, if you did,。
I don't know if you should let me know, but okay.。
We haven't, and we haven't stolen anything, hopefully.。
And so it's hard for us to gauge.。
I mean, we wanna love the Lord.。
We know that we're sinners, but in our head,。
but we don't really see ourselves that bad.。
How are we gonna like receive that mercy and love。
that the Bible always talks about?。
And that's kind of the same with me。
when my first two decades of my walk with the Lord,。
I know I look really young and I still am really young.。
I mean, the first two decades of my walk,。
and I believe when I was really extremely young,。
the first two decades when I walked with the Lord,。
I went to church, the Bible study,。
and I knew when I did the sinner's prayer。
and, but I just always felt that I'm not that bad.。
And because of that, for the longest time,。
I can't really feel or experience。
the amount of love and mercy.。
And it wasn't until that I was in a ditch。
that I prayed to the Lord, Lord, please show me the truth.。
And I didn't even know what the truth is.。
I just did that prayer.。
And I believe that it was the Holy Spirit then。
who opened my eyes and, you know,。
like I believe it was a few days later and I was like,。
oh my God, I actually saw myself.。
I was like, I didn't know I was this prideful,。
but all of a sudden I saw it.。
And I didn't know that I was that boastful。
or I didn't know I was still selfish。
and everything was about me.。
And, and, you know, in the Bible,。
it says that you don't have to kill someone。
in order to commit that sin.。
Even if you hate it, you're brothers,。
you're already liable to it.。
So what he's really saying is our sinful nature.。
So you don't have to kill anybody to do that,。
but we can't really see it。
until Holy Spirit shows it to us.。
And so if you feel like, you know,。
oh, I've understood the gospel so many years,。
but I don't really sense the mercy。
or the love that God has.。
I know his love.。
I don't say that you don't know,。
but I don't experience it.。
And then I really urge you to pray that prayer。
where you ask God, show me the truth,。
show me who I am so that I could see who you are.。
And that's exactly what happened to Paul,。
that he saw how Jesus had abundantly poured out。
his grace to him when he saw。
that he was the worst of sinners.。
So let us really experience, jump in if you haven't,。
'cause I feel like we might be here。
like dipping our toes into the pool,。
but not really like jumping in.。
That's what we need to do.。
And so having said that, he continues on,。
and he really tells us。
that as we are holding onto this truth,。
something changes inside of us.。
And he becomes so sure that he says,。
this statement is trustworthy.。
This is a full acceptance。
because he had experienced it for himself.。
And so I just wanted to say that for him,。
this gospel for Paul has been entrusted to him.。
And he says in verse 22,。
I'm trying to find where my verse went.。
Now he said in verse 16,。
"But for that very reason, I was shown mercy。
so that in me, the worst of sinners,。
Christ Jesus might displace his immense patience。
as an example.。
Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible,。
the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever."。
This is an important turnaround。
because he sees that the purpose for him。
to understand the truth, to experience it,。
there's only one reason,。
and that is so Christ Jesus may be displayed in him.。
This is for the purpose.。
And he sees it because this has been entrusted to him.。
And it has been entrusted to us as well.。
And this brings us to our third point,。
which is when we uphold the truth,。
we need to be true vessels of it.。
Now, Paul is a true vessel because he had experienced it.。
And now he knows that it's been passed on to him.。
And every day he lives it out.。
And I don't know about you.。
Do you think you live out this truth every day?。
Does your life, does your decision center around this truth?。
And what is the truth that he says?。
That Christ Jesus came to save sinners.。
Do you center your life around that。
so that other people can see God in you?。
Now, for those that don't,。
I believe that there's something that God's calling us to do。
which is to be his true vessels.。
Now, sometimes we think, well, how do I do that?。
Because I mean, all I do is I wake up every day,。
I go to school, I go to work, and then I eat my dinner,。
and then I sleep, and I spend time with my friends。
and family, and what does it look like?。
How am I supposed to live out this truth。
that Jesus Christ came to die for sinners?。
How do I do that?。
Well, I wanna show you like an everyday life example.。
So a few days ago, I was going to Hot Pot,。
I was trying to bring my mom to a Hot Pot in Causeway Bay.。
So we're going, talking, having a great time,。
and then as we got there,。
you know how MTR stations are, right?。
There's 100 exits, and you're like, oh my goodness,。
which one should I go, right?。
Of course, I was attempting to exit the one。
that's closest to the restaurant,。
of which I did not choose。
because I've mistakenly exit another one.。
And so I was there with my mom and she's walking out there,。
you know, it's 35 degrees,。
we were both sweating a little bit,。
and you know, extra five minutes outdoor.。
And then she turns to me and then she said,。
you know, if you don't know where you're going,。
just let me know.。
And then she's like, you have no sense of direction anyways.。
And then she's saying, okay, you know,。
last time when you were trying to bring me to Disneyland,。
and we were already in Kowloon,。
I brought her to Central, and then I brought her back.。
(audience laughing)。
And then the other time we were in like Korea,。
and then she's like, you made me walk in circles, you know?。
And I wanted to say at that point,。
I realized that I was flushing a bit.。
And then I realized, oh, you know,。
all I wanted to do was to take you to lunch, you know?。
And I felt like that I needed some grace.。
And it was in that moment that I realized, you know what?。
We can actually show grace to the people around us。
with the smallest things possible.。
We can show them how it is that Christ Jesus。
had died for sinners.。
And you're like, whoa, isn't this a far fetch?。
But imagine that day if you had just said nothing。
or said, hey, you know, it's a nice walk out,。
look at these stores, I haven't seen them some time.。
It would have been very different.。
And I don't wanna pick on my mom, which I just did.。
(audience laughing)。
But I wanna say that happens to me all the time as well.。
So my mom calls when I'm preparing this sermon,。
and I'm like, mom, can you just get off the phone?。
And I wanted to show her no patience, you know?。
I'm like, I'm working on this,。
like take care of your own problems.。
Or this other time when someone has wronged me,。
and then I'm trying to WhatsApp another person.。
Hey, you know, guess what that person did?。
It's so wrong.。
And I even screen captured it, you know,。
screenshot our conversation.。
And I realized, what, I'm just being so judgmental。
at that time.。
That is not what the truth is.。
And just when I, you know, going through these,。
I was like, it's not the big things.。
I mean, yes, also the big things,。
but it's also the small things.。
And maybe that's why a lot of non-believers。
call Christians hypocrites,。
because you say your God's this way,。
but I'm not experienced Him like that through you.。
But imagine if every day, the little things that we do,。
that we display Christ Jesus,。
we display this truth in our lives.。
Would they not turn to Christ and say,。
what is this God that you believe?。
And then what made that look like in a workplace?。
I mean, there might be a coworker,。
which you hate inside of you,。
but I'm sure you're forgiving him already.。
And he goes and makes a big mistake.。
What is it that you would do?。
Would you go and rub it in?。
Or would you graciously give him a hand?。
And like, what if like your wife nags you for the 10th time?。
Oh, this is something that's really bothering me.。
What do you do?。
Do you like patiently listens to her cry and respond?。
Or do you just say, (speaks in foreign language)。
or just like, oh, it's annoying.。
What do you do?。
What do we do?。
And what do we need to do?。
And God tells us, be true vessels of the truth.。
And really, I don't know,。
maybe it's because we don't fully understand the gospel.。
Maybe we haven't experienced the mercy。
so we can't give mercy to others.。
I don't know what it is.。
Or maybe it can just be like me。
where I forgot to uphold it and just slipped.。
But whatever it is, God tells us。
that we are to uphold the truth。
and we are to be his vessels.。
And that's what Paul does.。
He has entrusted, or God has entrusted the gospel to him。
and he had been faithful.。
Would we too be faithful?。
Now, the truth is that Jesus Christ came to the world。
to save sinners.。
Would you and I be willing to have our lives。
work around it so that we're constantly displaying。
Jesus Christ to others around us?。
And even though when we were broken,。
Jesus came and he gathered us, he accepted us,。
he shown us mercy, he forgave us and made us whole.。
Would you be willing to display that same love to others?。
So if you don't, if you feel like,。
oh, I don't really fully understand,。
I don't really fully experienced his mercy and love,。
please pray that the Holy Spirit opens your eyes,。
enlightens you to your sins.。
Then you will see the mercy。
and be able to let that flow out.。
If you already understood everything。
and then experienced it,。
then let us live that out in our everyday lives。
because all of this is actually for one purpose.。
And that is so the eternal King,。
the invisible God would be given glory and honor.。
Let us pray together.。
Dear heavenly Father,。
thank you for giving us Jesus.。
Thank you for showing us how much you love us,。
that while we were sinners,。
you already came for us to wash away our sins.。
And maybe some of us here understood it in our head,。
but have not experienced it.。
I pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit will open up our eyes。
so that we would see ourselves,。
so that we could see how much you love us.。
And Father, we just pray。
that you will help us in our everyday life。
to be that vessel to show everyone。
in the big things and small things。
who it is that lives inside of us.。
In Jesus Christ, and we pray, amen.。
