And it's great to be able to speak to you about God's Word tonight.。
And we're finishing off the Book of Judges.。
It's been really awesome, actually, to see how God has been working in the Old Testament。
and working in and through specific people to deliver His message and to deliver Israel.。
And last week, Pastor James went through a very difficult passage about the moral mess。
of Israel, Part 1, unfaithful worship.。
And Pastor James challenged us, you know, what is our motive to repentance?。
What is our motive to worshiping God?。
What is our motive to serving God?。
And as we see, as Israel denies God as their king and is involved in all sorts of idolatry,。
they become more and more morally decay, more and more morally decay.。
And we're going to see even more of that today as we look at Part 2, which is unfaithful。
acts.。
And we've been going through the Book of Judges, and we're seeing these similarities, this。
cycle that Israel has been going through.。
So they are caught up in idolatry, and their sin in their life.。
And maybe they're worshiping Baal, maybe they're caught up in adultery and affairs and unfaithful。
to the Lord, doing all sorts of lawless things.。
And then what happens is God punishes them.。
There's oppression.。
God sends other nations to oppress them.。
The Philistines or other nations to come and punish them.。
And Israel cries out to God, "God, please deliver us.。
We repent."。
And Israel repents, and God sends a deliverer.。
Usually it's a judge like Samson or others, Deborah, to come and save them.。
And there's a period of peace.。
But here we see in Chapter 19 that there is no judge.。
God does not deliver a judge.。
And what happens is that Israel falls into moral decay.。
Their sense of right and wrong becomes rotten.。
Just like this apple.。
Who wants to eat this apple?。
The rotten one.。
Anybody want to eat it?。
I don't think I want to eat it, right?。
And that's what happens.。
Rotten apples, they're smelly, they're like mushy.。
Michelle doesn't want to eat it, even though she loves fruit.。
You know, like, we don't want to do anything with it.。
And that's what happened with Israel.。
Their sense of morality, right and wrong, is decaying.。
Imagine that.。
Imagine that smell of that rotten apple.。
That is Israel's moral decay.。
And so we go into Chapter 19.。
And now I must warn you, there are a lot of R-rated stuff in this passage.。
And so it might not be for everyone.。
But however, the Bible puts it there for a reason.。
And I believe that the Lord has a lesson for us today.。
So let us read Judges Chapter 19.。
In those days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain Levite was sojourning in remote。
parts of the hill country of Ephraim, who took for himself a concubine from Bethlehem。
in Judea.。
And his concubine was unfaithful to him.。
And she went away from him to her father's house at Bethlehem in Judea, and was there。
for some four months.。
And so Judges 19 starts off, there was no king in Israel.。
Israel denied God as their king.。
They did not want a theocracy that God would rule their hearts.。
And so it goes into this story that this Levite took for himself a concubine.。
Now a concubine nowadays would be considered a mistress.。
But back then, a concubine was considered a legal partner, a second wife.。
And so sometimes, especially if the first wife could not have children, they might take。
on a mistress.。
And the examples are Abraham.。
Abraham, Sarah couldn't have children.。
So Sarah was like, "Take my maid, and maybe you can have descendants."。
David also had many wives.。
And Solomon, well, obviously, he has as much wives as I do shoes.。
Not as much as Pastor James has shoes.。
But the concept of a concubine back then was not so foreign back then.。
It was considered a legal partner.。
However, this concubine was unfaithful to the Levite.。
And she maybe was not happy with her status as a second wife.。
Maybe she wasn't as privileged as much as the first wife.。
And so what happened was she was unfaithful.。
We don't know why she was unfaithful.。
The Bible just says that she was unfaithful.。
And she left from Ephraim, as we see the map in the next slide, from the hill country of。
Ephraim towards Bethlehem, which is her hometown.。
And so this Levite pursues her.。
He decides, "Oh, I really want to pursue after my concubine."。
And he goes with his servant to Bethlehem and travels all the way there.。
And the father-in-law welcomes him.。
And they have a great time.。
And he even stays several nights.。
And on the fourth night, fourth day, on the fourth day, the father-in-law is like, "You。
know what?。
Why don't you stay a couple more days?。
Stay another day.。
Drink.。
Be merry.。
Let's have a good time."。
It's sort of like, you know, maybe you go to an in-law's house or your grandma's house,。
and they're like, "Hey, continue.。
Stay over.。
I have lots of goodies.。
You know, stay a couple more hours.。
Let's have a good time."。
And so the father-in-law convinces the Levite to continue to stay.。
And they stay another night.。
And then, so they have a great time.。
And on the fifth day, the Levite and his servant and the concubine, they're about to leave.。
And the father-in-law is like, "No, no, come on.。
Let's have lunch.。
Let's have, let's have tea."。
And so they continue to have a meal.。
And they're merry, and they're drinking, and they're having a feast.。
And then the Levite's like, "Okay, it's really, we really have to leave now."。
And so they decide to leave.。
And so the Levite and the concubine and the servant decide to leave around the afternoon.。
And so what happens is they're traveling from Bethlehem, and it's getting late, right?。
Maybe you're hiking, and it's getting late, right?。
And you're like, "Oh, no, it's getting late.。
We really need to get back home," right?。
And so they decide, "Okay, we got to stay somewhere."。
And the servant's like, "Let's stay in this city or that city."。
And the Levite's like, "No, let's not stay in foreign countries.。
Let's stay in an Israelite, Israel part of territory."。
And so they decide to stay at Gibeah, right, as we see in the next map.。
So they travel from Bethlehem to Gibeah.。
And we see when they arrive at the city, as we see in the next couple of verses, they。
arrive at the city, and nobody wants to take them home, right?。
Back then, there was no houses or hotels, I mean.。
There was no hotels.。
There was no hotel.com.。
There was no booking.com.。
You couldn't book your place ahead of time.。
No, they relied on the hospitality of the people of Israel.。
And nobody would take them in.。
And so you're like, "Oh, this is a little bit weird, right?。
How come I'm in the city?。
I'm an Israelite.。
Nobody's willing to take me to their home, welcome me to their..."。
Yes, there is no hotels.com.。
However, there was a man that welcomed them, right?。
And actually, he was from the same city the Levite was from, right?。
From the hill country of Ephraim.。
And so this old man warns them, right?。
He says in the next couple of verses, in the next slide, "Peace be to you.。
I will care for you for all your wants.。
Only do not spend the night at the square."。
Right?。
All right.。
So nobody's welcoming them in.。
The only person that's welcoming them in is a person not from that town.。
And the old man warns them not to stay in the night.。
And so he brought them into their house, the old man did, and fed their donkeys, washed。
their feet, and they're having a feast.。
And they're having a great time.。
Their hearts were married.。
And then all of a sudden, they hear a knocking.。
And it's not Deliveroo.。
It's not Deliveroo.。
The Bible says this, that they were men of the city, worthless fellows.。
Okay?。
It was not Deliveroo.。
It was not a good thing.。
And what did they do?。
They were beating on the door, banging on the door, surrounding the house.。
And they said to the old man, "Bring the man who came into your house, that we may。
know him."。
Now, this is derogatory for having sex with this man, right?。
And this is not pretty, right?。
And the master of the house said to them, we see in the next couple verses, "My brothers,。
do not act so wickedly."。
Right?。
"Stop right there.。
Do not act so wickedly."。
Right?。
Instead, "This is my daughter, virgin daughter, and this is his concubine.。
Let me bring them to you."。
Violate them instead of violating this man.。
And this is not pretty.。
This is pretty wicked, right?。
In fact, this story reminds you of a certain story in Genesis, right?。
Lot, right?。
Welcoming the two angels or the two men into his house and the same sort of reaction in。
Sodom and Gomorrah.。
Now back then, in the Middle East, what happened was, if you invited somebody into your home,。
you were responsible for them.。
You were responsible for their meals, for their safety.。
And so what happened is, this old man wanted to protect the Levite.。
He wanted to protect the Levite.。
And instead, what did he do?。
He was willing to give up his virgin daughter and the concubine.。
Not pretty.。
Not pretty at all.。
And so we see in the next slide, what happens is, these men take advantage of the concubine。
and it was not pretty.。
And afterwards, the concubine fell down at the old man's house when it was morning.。
And so the Levite goes to her and says, "Get up.。
Let us be going."。
And this woman did not answer.。
And so then the Levite put her on the donkey and the man rose up and went away to his home.。
And this chapter ends with another very ugly scene here.。
The man entered his house, took a knife, and taking hold of the concubine, divided her。
into pieces, 12 pieces, limb by limb, and sent them out to the territories of Israel.。
And all who saw it said, "Such a thing has never happened or seen from that day that。
the people of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt until this day.。
Consider it.。
Take counsel and speak."。
And so we see in Judges 19, moral decay.。
Israel has fallen so far away from the Lord that they have gone to these wicked acts.。
And so we're going to do a little bit of a character study of what has happened here.。
Firstly, we're going to look into the life of the concubine.。
The good, the bad, and the ugly.。
And firstly, we see the bad from the concubine.。
The concubine was unfaithful to the Levite.。
She was supposedly his maid or second wife, considered back then.。
So she was unfaithful and she ran away to her father's house in Bethlehem.。
The good, maybe she tried to restore that relationship.。
When the Levite came to her father's house, she was willing to go away with the Levite。
after the fifth day.。
Maybe she was good in terms of trying to restore that relationship as well.。
We don't really know.。
The Bible doesn't really say.。
And so here we see the bad and the good, maybe the good from the concubine.。
Next we move on to the old man, the character study of the old man.。
Now firstly, we see the good.。
The good is that he was willing to give hospitality to the Levite.。
In the laws, God commands the Israelites that they should be hospitable to the people that。
come into their lands, the foreigners that come into their lands.。
And he was also good because he gave warning to the Levite.。
Don't go into the square.。
Don't stay the night there.。
Now the bad thing about the old man was that he was willing to give up his virgin daughter。
and the Levite's concubine when the worthless men of that city came knocking on his door.。
He was not a faithful father.。
Fathers are supposed to protect their daughters.。
If you were a father and these worthless men were coming and knocking on your house, would。
you not protect your daughter?。
It would be more heroic for him to give up himself instead of giving up his daughter.。
But the old man was so caught up in protecting his guest or the name of his house that he。
was willing to sacrifice his virgin daughter and the Levite's concubine.。
So we see the good from the old man, but we also see the bad.。
Next, we go to the Levite.。
Now the good of the Levite was he pursued the unfaithful concubine.。
And that's what we should do when there is some sort of problem in our marriage or relationship.。
We should seek restoration.。
Now the Bible, the Old Testament, does not give the okay to have multiple wives.。
Jesus himself says that a man should leave his house and be united with his wife.。
And so the Bible very clearly says that marriage should be between a man and a wife, one wife.。
And so it's not good that he had multiple wives.。
It was sort of accepted back then, but it wasn't really what the Lord wanted.。
None of these families were blessed when they had multiple wives in the family.。
It's good that he pursued, he was willing to reconcile and restore that relationship。
with the concubine.。
He was willing to go to his father's house, her father's house, and restore that relationship.。
Now the bad part was, after, when they arrived to the old man's house, he was willing to。
sacrifice his concubine for the men of Gibeah.。
He was willing to sacrifice sort of his second wife.。
He went all the way there to restore that relationship, and then all of a sudden when。
these wicked men, when these worthless men come and knocking on the door, he doesn't。
protect her.。
He's not willing to protect her.。
And in fact, he sort of, after being abused for the night, she's lying in front of the。
old man's house, he just goes up to her and says, "Come on, get up, let us be going."。
He does not say, "Are you okay taking care of her?" or whatnot.。
He's sort of inconsiderate.。
And the ugly part is that he divided her into 12 pieces.。
And we see that as people go away from the Lord, and further and further away from the。
Lord, their minds become twisted.。
Back then it wasn't uncommon, if Israel was going to war, they would make a sacrifice,。
and they would divide a sacrifice of a lamb or a goat into pieces and send it to the tribe.。
The tribes and territories of Israel, it was not uncommon, if they were going to war, that。
they would do that.。
But for this Levite to divide up the concubine into 12 pieces, it shows the state of moral。
decay that he was in.。
Israel was in moral decay.。
And lastly, we see the worthless fellows of Gibeah.。
They were so wicked that they were compared, it's basically like they were from Sodom and。
Gomorrah.。
The story is basically the same.。
They're knocking on the doors, asking, demanding that this man come out and that they would。
know him.。
Wicked.。
These worthless fellows were very wicked, and it shows the moral state of decay that。
Israel has gone into.。
When we go into sin, the sin becomes deeper and deeper, and it becomes harder and harder。
to get out.。
The moral decay, the stink of the moral decay becomes more and more like that apple.。
The rottenness of Israel is just like that rotten apple.。
Smelly.。
You can smell it.。
You can see the worms in it, the decay in it.。
You want nothing to do with it.。
And that was Israel.。
That was the men of Gibeah, the worthless fellows of Gibeah.。
This reflected the state of Israel.。
And what happens when there is moral decay?。
We see the result.。
The unfaithfulness.。
The unfaithfulness to others.。
The concubine was not faithful as a second wife.。
The Levite was not faithful in protecting the concubine, the second wife.。
The old man was not faithful, a faithful father to the virgin daughter.。
This virgin daughter is precious.。
It should be protected.。
But this father, this old man did not protect his virgin daughter.。
He was an unfaithful father.。
And these worthless fellows were unfaithful to God because they were doing despicable。
things that were against the laws of the Lord.。
And ultimately, all the people in this story, they were unfaithful in following the laws。
of the Lord.。
They were unfaithful, unfaithful people.。
And what I like about the Bible, it doesn't try to rewrite history.。
It doesn't make it pretty so that Israelite people are beautiful and they're perfect.。
No, it shows people as they are.。
It shows the good.。
It shows the bad.。
And it shows the ugly.。
And when we are in moral decay, we are ugly.。
And in the same way, if somebody did a character study on you and on me, there would also be。
some good things, some bad things, and some ugly things.。
When we go away from the Lord, when we walk in our own way, when we choose to look at。
things that we shouldn't be, it just snowballs.。
And it gets from bad to worse to ugly.。
And that is us.。
We may be doing good things, but there are also times that we fall short.。
And so the challenge for us today, the challenge for us KFCI today, is how do we stay faithful?。
And there are several ways that we need to stay faithful.。
And as we look into the next slide, before we look into the next slide, here is a quote。
from Oswald Chambers.。
"God has not called us to be successful.。
God has called us to be faithful."。
God doesn't care about how many degrees you have.。
God doesn't care about how many number zeroes are in your bank.。
God cares if you are faithful as a student.。
God cares if you are faithful to the money that he's given you.。
God is caring more about if you are faithful in the job that he has given you.。
God has not called us to success, but to faithfulness.。
And here are five or six things that we can be faithful in.。
And the first thing is, are we faithful in our work?。
Are we a faithful worker?。
If the bank has hired us, if the church has hired us, if whatever job has hired us, are。
we faithful in our work?。
What are we doing when the boss is not looking?。
Are we faithful in our work?。
Do we give 100% to the work that he has given us?。
Ultimately, God is the one that gives us the work.。
Are we faithful in our word?。
Are we true to our own word?。
Are we true to our promises?。
You know, when I was in Uganda, I have a friend who's joining us from Uganda today, Mark,。
and he just got married.。
And when I was in Uganda six years ago or seven years ago, it was really hard to make。
appointments with people.。
Because in Uganda, the concept of time is that time works for you.。
Time works for you.。
And so, you know, it's 12pm and he made an appointment for lunch and I'm like, "Are you。
coming?"。
And they're like, "I'm coming, I'm coming."。
And it's like 12.30, 1pm, and they may show up at 1pm.。
Are we true to our promises?。
Are we true to our word?。
And sometimes, you know, especially early in the morning, it's hard for me to be on。
time sometimes.。
Are we true to our word?。
Are we true in our relationships?。
Are we faithful?。
Are we faithful friends?。
Are we faithful fathers?。
Are we faithful spouses?。
Are we faithful fathers?。
Are we faithful as friends?。
Or do we just stab our brothers or our friends in the back?。
That concept of stabbing in the back, just talking badly about our friends and our fathers。
and our family or whoever.。
Are we faithful as friends?。
Are we faithful in our character?。
Can we be reliable?。
Are we trusted?。
Are we believed?。
Are we faithful in our character?。
And we learn in the Bible that faithfulness is a fruit of the Spirit.。
We've been learning about fruits, we were learning about fruits of the Spirit in SEP.。
And faithfulness is a fruit of the Holy Spirit, is a fruit of the Spirit.。
Faithfulness does not come naturally ourselves.。
We must rely on the Holy Spirit to help us to be faithful in our character.。
And are we faithful towards God?。
Faithful in following God and his promises and his law?。
Are we faithful as Christians, faithful followers of God?。
And lastly, I added this one, are we faithful in adversity?。
It's easy to be faithful as a friend, right?。
When things are going well and everything is merry.。
It's easy to be faithful to God when God is blessing you and everything is going well.。
Are we faithful when times are tough?。
When our marriage is going through rough patches, are we willing to be faithful?。
When times are tough between friends, are we willing to be faithful?。
When we're going through ups and downs spiritually, are we willing to continue to be faithful。
to God and trust that he is there for us?。
That he is on our side?。
Are we faithful in times like these?。
When there is a global pandemic?。
When there is social social distancing?。
When things are hard, are we still willing to be faithful?。
Are we still faithful to come on Zoom and worship together as a body of Christ to make。
that a priority?。
Are we faithful?。
And I'm going to finish off with four points of how we can be faithful today.。
The first thing that we can do is focus on knowing the faithfulness of God.。
As we know God more, as we study his word more, as we go into fellowship more, as we。
worship together more, as we're knowing God through the Bible, through worship, through。
church, we will become, I truly believe that we will become more like God as we know God。
more.。
And we will desire, God will give us this desire to know him and to become more like。
him.。
And God is faithful even when we are not.。
And we can learn that God is always faithful.。
When Israel turned away to sin, to idols, God was always faithful.。
God is always faithful to you, even when you fall away.。
He is like that father for the prodigal son waiting, running towards you.。
God is a faithful father.。
And as we know God more, I believe that we will want to become more like him and become。
more like him.。
And the second thing is we need to repent of our unfaithfulness.。
In each one of our lives, there is good, there is bad, but we can repent of our faithfulness.。
He is compassionate and forgiving of us.。
If we truly come towards him, confess the things that we've done wrong, how we've been。
unfaithful to God, and turn 180 degrees from our own direction, from our own desires, towards。
the Lord.。
Next we need to rely on the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit is there to sanctify us, make us more like Jesus.。
We cannot do it on our own strength.。
We must rely on the Holy Spirit to help us.。
And lastly, God put us in a community, in a church, in a body of Christ, so that we。
could be stronger together.。
Accountability helps us so that we can keep each other accountable.。
So I hope this message, it was a hard message.。
It's a difficult passage, but it's also a lesson for us today that as unfaithful as。
Israel is, God is faithful.。
And he's calling you and me to be faithful, to be a faithful father, a faithful friend,。
a faithful Christian.。
And I pray that you would rely on the Spirit and become faithful to him in the midst of。
these hard times.。
Let us pray and respond in a song.。
God give us clean hands and a clean heart.。
Let us not turn our hearts to another.。
Father, we thank you that you are always faithful.。
Even when we are unfaithful, even when we fall astray, you are always faithful.。
You are that father that is waiting for us, running after us.。
You love us and you call us to be like you, to be perfect like you.。
And Father, we are not perfect, but we desire to be and we want to be.。
Fill us with the Spirit, help us to surrender to the Holy Spirit so that we can be faithful。
and have the fruit of faithfulness.。
Bless us, Lord.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
