Right, thank you Pastor Johnny. Thank you so much for the prayer as well. Yes, so it is the very last。
sermon worship of this year for us and it's exciting to be here sharing a message with you。
tonight. Now the topic that we'll be doing is the last on our Siri Advent to Christmas. It is on the。
topic of Prince of Peace. Now this year is kind of nothing but peace, right? We have COVID that's。
affected literally everyone on earth and yet you know we as Christians we hear about the Prince of。
Peace all the time and to some extent we really want to know how is it that we can experience this。
peace and so today I'm just really glad to be sharing this message and I'm going to give you。
three steps. I don't know why everything's in threes but I'm going to give you three steps so。
that you could experience the peace from Jesus. Now who wants to know how to experience peace。
from Jesus? Can you put up your hand? There we go. I see a few hands there. Yep, good. I'm glad。
I'm not preaching to myself but then we're all listening to it but if nobody's listening I'm。
very glad to hear this message myself because sometimes what we hear is that the Bible promises。
us peace all the time but it might be that we're not experiencing that in our lives and we wonder。
you know did we miss out on something or we hear of other people experiencing that peace. So today。
hopefully after we have all shared these three steps that we could all experience it from Jesus。
our Prince of Peace. So let's start by looking at the verse that we have been for a few weeks now.。
It is from Isaiah chapter 9 verse 6. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the。
government shall be upon his shoulder and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,。
Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Now if we want to live in Jesus's peace we have to go to。
him to find out what it is that we can achieve it but before that instead of asking you what is。
peace to you I actually want to ask you another question which is how is it that we would lose。
peace sometimes. So here's my question to you what makes you lose your peace? Now could you all share。
your thoughts on chat and I'll read them out as I see them. What makes you lose your peace?。
Worry. Okay good Agnes says worry what kind of what things makes us worry? Kids, work, all right.。
Frustrations with events, good. Anything else? Anything that would make us lose our peace?。
Financial insecurities, good. And sometimes we might lose our job right or mismatch between。
expectation and reality. Yes not trusting God. These are all great answers. COVID-19,。
yes. And health conditions, wow you guys are great with these. Yeah thank you so much everyone and we。
see that a lot of times we can lose our peace because the circumstances around us continue to。
change and it might be our health issues as some of you have mentioned and it could be financial。
issues or relationship issues or that we don't trust in God and so I did a little google. I said。
how do we lose peace? Okay so this is what it came up with. Trying to control things or even people.。
Trying to make things happen when the timing isn't right and so what we realize is that we lose our。
peace when we lose control and so really the other question I want to ask is why is it that when we。
have control over these things we actually have peace? Well most of the time it's because we have。
a sense of security and we feel safe because if we know what's about to happen we feel safe and。
this sense of security helps us to have peace but you know in life we do know that there are a lot。
of things that we cannot control so today you know really we want to look at how is it that we can。
still have peace when things don't go our way? When we might have our family member or even。
ourselves suffer from illness or we might be losing our job or we know friends who are。
or just simply we have relationship problems. How can we still say that we could have peace at this。
time? And so today when we look at Isaiah chapter 9 verse 2 we'll also see another verse from verse。
2 it says the people who walked in darkness have seen a great light those who dwell in a land of。
deep darkness on them has light shown. Now this is a few verses prior to the one that we've just read。
and what we see here is that the people the Israelites have been walking in darkness. Now。
why was it that they were walking in darkness? And we find out from the few verses above or in between。
verse 2 and 6 sorry from chapter 8 and to chapter 9 is that we see the king Iseria they have been。
invading the land in Israel and they were mostly affected in the land of Zebulun and Neftali。
because they were from the northern part and so they were invaded by this king so they've been。
walking in this darkness and there was no hope for this people. But the first point that I wanted to。
bring is that we can still have peace if we're able to see the light just like what Isaiah is。
saying here when we see the light Jesus in your darkness then we are able to have peace. So right。
now I want to do a bit of experiment and what I'm going to say is that let there be no light。
do not be afraid when my screen goes dark. And I want to really show you what it felt like。
when we are invaded or when we are troubled by the circumstances in our lives. This is what we feel。
like total darkness and Jesus is the light and I'm gonna light a candle here. I just want to ask to。
all experience how a light in a dark place cuts through that darkness and it brings out a pathway。
a possibility a hope to us. And really the first point that we have when we're in this darkness。
or when we have a situation where we feel like we just can't go on anymore that we have trouble and。
we don't know what to do we're anxious we're worried the very first thing that we need to focus。
on isn't the darkness but that there's light and that is Jesus. Jesus is amongst us he's right here。
with you during those dark times and that's the beginning step one of finding peace. Now I shall。
say let there be light again and voila we have light again. And so I wanted us to experience。
that darkness because it's interesting how Isaiah didn't say they were going through a lot of。
oppression which he did state it earlier but he wanted us to feel what they felt inside the heart。
and also their vision was only darkness and sometimes that's what's happening in our lives too.。
It isn't really the bad situations that get us to worry or be anxious but not knowing what's。
going to happen that makes us anxious and also not having hope that makes us scared and fearful.。
So that's step one for us. Now as we read on in the different verses that's to come。
we also see that in the Bible verse, verse three to five, Isaiah tells us that when this light。
comes in that their nation will be multiplied and that their joy would be increased not only that。
but they'll win the battles so that they would divide the spoils among themselves.。
And just like the day when it was the Gideon when we studied the book of Judges in the days of Midian。
knights when they won against them that's what's going to happen to the Israelite in this vision。
that Isaiah sees and that every boot of the trampoline warrior and all of their battle。
gears is going to be burned up for fuel because they don't need them anymore. So this really leads。
us to think that this light isn't just a light that oh it feels nice in my heart but this light。
will bring deliverance it brings hope that whatever situation we're in he will deliver us.。
And so as we read on to verse six which we started at the beginning and also in this series。
we can see that all of this is possible because of one thing that a child is born.。
And interestingly enough Isaiah could have just stopped there as a child is born and the。
government shall be upon his shoulder but he says specifically a son is given and this is really。
trying to allude us to remember the promise that God has which is that he will give his。
very own son to us and he shall ring upon all his people. And so as we read this we will know。
that it is Jesus this that is the light it is Jesus that this government and this ring shall be upon.。
So the second point that I want to share with you is that peace after it comes is actually。
it depends on if we follow him. Now I want to speak a little bit into that。
because we see that when Jesus came peace didn't immediately enter into people's heart.。
Actually many people don't even have peace today even though Jesus is born and he has risen from。
the dead. So how come we're still calling Jesus the prince of peace and how is it that we can。
attain it and the second step to attaining it is to follow Jesus. And we see this because as。
as the bible verse shares with us he actually says that when he came there was a time where the wise。
men came from the east and they searched high and low because of this star that they have seen in。
the sky this light that they saw and they said I'm just not going to see this light and continue my。
own things I'm actually going to follow this light I'm going to try to find this messiah the。
savior that has been promised and similarly oh I forgot to show this one and so they followed to。
find Jesus and similarly we see that there were shepherds in the field and when the angels came。
they told him that there would be a child that would be born onto them and they even said glory。
to God in the highest and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased and again we see。
peace and I want to be very straightforward which is peace that Jesus has isn't for everyone because。
it says here for whom he is pleased and who are those that God is pleased with well the thing is。
there is sin in our lives and unless Jesus helps us take those away we would never be a pleased。
offering or Jesus is the pleased offering in which through him would all be able to come。
before God and reconcile with him and have a relationship with him so that he would also be。
pleased with us because all our sins have been taken away and it is because of this that Jesus。
is also called the prince of peace because he reconciled our relationship with God and so peace。
then is to those who have accepted Jesus but not only that oh after we've accepted him it is those。
who continue to follow him and Jesus said also in the gospel of John verse 8 he says I am the。
light of the world whoever what follows me will not walk in darkness but will have the light of。
life and we see here this peace or this light of the world is able to enter our heart when we。
follow Jesus because he is the light of the world and so what this really tells us is that not only。
do we see this light in the darkness or in the circumstances that we're going through。
but that we will go to him to repent of our sins and that we'll accept Jesus in order to have a。
reconciled relationship with God but then we'll need to continue to follow him if we want that。
light to live in our heart this peace to continue in our heart and so this actually naturally leads。
to our third point which is that as we follow him let me see this slide as we follow him peace。
through trusting that Jesus in control will allow us to feel the ultimate peace in our heart。
now let me explain a little bit about that because sometimes we feel like I've repented of my sin I。
I've done it many times because I've sinned different ways and I want to repent again but。
still I'm not feeling this peace well for one thing we have to find out what it means to follow。
Jesus because when we follow Jesus it means that we need to give up our ways of doing things。
remember how we mentioned that the reason that we lose peace is because we want control but when we。
start to follow Jesus we let go we're like open hand and we let go of our plans our desires。
and we follow his will and that might mean if he asks us to forgive someone we don't want to we'll。
do that and that might mean if we didn't feel like uh taking care of the poor or the widow but if he。
asked us to we'll want to do that it might be that we have a plan to to to to be a certain profession。
but if God calls us that we would give that up as well and follow his path so when we follow him。
we will start to sense the peace because we will no longer need to be in control。
and so that's why when we follow him we also know that if he's the one that's ultimately in control。
we don't have to worry and the third step was trusting that Jesus is in control。
and as we read verse 7 it says of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end。
and on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice。
with righteousness from time from this time forth and forevermore the seal of the lord of hosts will。
do this this verse is important to us as well because when we give up control sometimes we're。
scared because we don't know what's happening but since Jesus is the prince of peace he is the peace。
that has no end which means that is everlasting and that it's overriding everything it's beyond。
earth beyond heavens his throne is above everything and that's where his kingdom rings。
and so when we allow ourselves and let go of our own desires and will and to follow him。
we're not blindly following anybody we're following the prince of this world and we can。
rest assured that he has control and so I want to share a little bit with you about。
the the story of Mary because I think this story really allows us or captures how is it that we。
could follow God and sense the peace that he has promised us now Mary is the mother of Jesus。
and he would and she was engaged to Joseph now during their engagement she found out that she。
was impregnated with Holy Spirit now that's quite a curveball I'm engaged now and I cannot imagine。
how I would face the world if that had happened to me but let's not go there today so she followed。
God and after she found out this um announcement from the angel this is how she replied behold。
I am the servant of the Lord let it be to me according to your word and then the angels。
departed from her now in the natural you would think this is really scary for teenage bride who's。
about to get married because she'll be worried about what would her future husband think what。
would her family think what would the society think of her but instead she was willing to follow God's。
will and said let it be to me according to your word and she followed God and I think if anybody。
like us in the natural probably like Mary at that time as well would think all right now that I'm。
following God's will everything is going to be smooth sailing from now on but of course we found。
out it isn't like that because soon after she'll be running for her life and she had to escape to。
Egypt because why King Harold wanted to kill all the infants that were younger than two years old。
and so can you imagine her following Jesus and yet still having all these troubles。
she must be thinking how did how did it all happen how come God's not protecting me that。
might be in the natural but according to how she had responded I am the servant of the Lord。
let it be to me according to your words and if she had continued on with this attitude。
she would have found peace which I believe Mary did even when she was running for her life because。
she knew that God would be in control now eventually Jesus grew up and after three years。
of ministering he was publicly humiliated scorned and hated and in the natural anybody would be。
thinking Lord what is going on what is going on how come you've given me a child and I have to。
see him suffer I mean it would only be natural for us to think like this don't you think because it's。
so hard to see what's happening even though you followed God when the situations isn't what you。
think or isn't what you have can have peace but I think Mary did at that time because not only。
did she submit it to God but then she knows that what she is submitting to someone whose kingdom。
is above earth whose kingdom is beyond time so that she doesn't need to worry and in hindsight。
we do know that it is because she was able to follow and because she's able to submit and。
letting go whatever the outcome would be to God that she is able to find peace and eventually。
the Messiah would complete his mission through Mary now I want to encourage all of us that when。
we're going through troubled times and even after we've repented we've believed in God even after。
we've done everything we could to follow him and yet we still see the circumstances or the outcome。
not happening the way we want it to I want to encourage you that when we trust in Jesus and。
we're trusting God the Holy Spirit the Prince of Peace whose ring is above earth of beyond time。
that he knows what he's doing then this trust in Jesus would be one。
that is beyond all understanding and this is the peace I believe when Jesus came to his。
disciples and said peace I leave with you my peace I give you not as the world gives。
do I give you let not your hearts be troubled neither let them be afraid because this world。
when they give you peace is through the circumstances but the peace that Jesus is。
giving to us is a peace that says if you trust in me I will take care of the outcome I will triumph。
over everything it might not be the way that you're thinking in your head。
but I will ultimately have victory and triumph and this peace I want to say。
is one that surpasses all understanding because in the natural it shouldn't happen this way。
but our Jesus our God is supernatural he is beyond hobbies。
and so what about you。
do you trust that God knows what he's doing in your life do you trust that even at your darkest。
hour or your greatest frustration that there there is this light in the midst of it that。
Jesus is with you and are you willing to follow his ways maybe it means to give up your desires。
give up your selfish way of doing things and regardless of how things seems to be when you。
follow him are you willing to continue to trust him even though your eyes may not see those outcomes。
are you willing to follow him and if you have said yes to all these questions and I want to。
congratulate you because the prince of peace that light the true light of life lives in your heart。
and I'm sure that you're experiencing that peace all the time but if you have said no to any one。
of these questions I want to say take heart because Jesus is the good news and he says that。
whenever you turn to him he's willing to give you that peace and I pray that you would ask God to。
help you to have a peace in your mind through seeing this light ask him to help you if you're。
in the darkness and ask him to help you to follow him to start letting go of the things that you're。
not willing to and ask him to help you to trust even when the outcome seems to not be what we want。
and so today I leave you with these three steps that as we see the light even in the darkness。
when we follow God's will leaving behind our own desires in our selfish ways。
that when we trust him even though we haven't seen his triumph but we trust that he has victory。
at the very end and then I want to say when we follow these three steps the peace of prince。
lives in our hearts and he is more than willing to leave this peace with us and so that no matter。
what we go through in life he's with us and his peace is with us so today we're going to sing。
the blessing together may Jesus the light of the world may his face shine upon you。
and as we sing it invite him invite him and ask him if you're struggling with trusting him how。
can you do it with all areas of your life whether it's health his work his family or relationship。
and so we just want to pray together in a moment and just want to recite one more time this bible。
verse for unto us a child is born to us a son is given and the government shall be upon his shoulder。
and his name shall be called wonderful counselor mighty God everlasting father prince of peace。
let us pray together。
dear heavenly father we thank you so much for giving us Jesus the light of the world。
to come into our darkness we were full of sins and yet Jesus took it all away。
because he loves us and we just thank you father that he is the wonderful counselor。
who has all the wisdom and he is the mighty God the one who has all the power。
the everlasting father beyond time and he's the prince of peace and father we just pray that you。
would help us that as we struggle sometimes to follow you father may your holy spirit help us。
and father help us to trust you even when we don't understand because you know what you're doing。
you're in control and you reign above everything so father help us today to receive this blessing。
of peace in Jesus Christ name we pray amen。
