- Hey everyone.。
So, look at you all.。
We actually get to be together.。
Isn't it good?。
I think nothing warms my heart more than being able。
to just see the body of Christ get together.。
A couple of weeks ago I went on a spiritual retreat。
and I started in Causeway Bay.。
But then there was just so many people.。
Causeway Bay, I actually usually hate Causeway Bay.。
I thought it would be okay,。
but Hong Kong's been getting busy again.。
So, after a few hours I was like,。
you know what, I can't do it.。
I can't do it here.。
There's too many people.。
And I'm beginning to be reminded。
of my distaste for crowds, for people.。
And so I went all the way to Stanley。
and then I caught a ferry to Potoi.。
Potoi, where there were no people.。
Actually, no, there were lots of people on the ferry.。
But once you got there, we got to Despond.。
And I remember walking around there.。
And it's a really nice island。
that doesn't have its own running water or power,。
but it's really cool.。
Do go.。
I remember just finally getting to a spot。
where I could just see the ocean and the mountains.。
And I remember telling God,。
ah, now I'm in beauty.。
Now I can really get to rest.。
If only those people over there。
would just move out of the way。
and I would be able to take the most beautiful picture.。
But those humans are getting in the way.。
And then that's when God spoke to me.。
And it was the only time he spoke to me。
during those two days.。
And he said, you know,。
those humans are the most beautiful thing in this picture.。
They're made in the image of me.。
So you can sort yourself out。
and change your mindset quickly。
because the most beautiful place on earth is Causeway Bay.。
Because that's where all the people are.。
(audience laughing)。
And then by extension, Hong Kong.。
Requires a change of heart.。
So it warms my heart to see all you beautiful people,。
and John, of course, and...。
(audience laughing)。
But nothing warms my heart even more than that,。
than actually going through the word of God.。
And today we're going through 2 Peter.。
John started us last week on the sermon series,。
Beware, but Grow.。
And today I'm doing 2 Peter, chapter two.。
But just a little context,。
just to rewind it back a little bit.。
The apostle Peter writes these two letters to the church.。
He writes one Peter about AD 64.。
And then that one is all about,。
actually we've done this before.。
It's all about, it's all about comfort。
and encouragement to the church。
because they were going through external attacks.。
So Peter was saying, just hang on there, suffering.。
You'll get there, there'll be hope.。
And that's what one Peter was about.。
And then three years later, he writes 2 Peter.。
2 Peter has a very, very different angle.。
Instead of talking about external attacks,。
he's now warning about internal attacks.。
So if the one Peter,。
the main theme of that is encouragement,。
2 Peter is about warning.。
It's about warning.。
And today I'm gonna be talking on the title examination.。
Examination, I don't know how,。
what that word does to you,。
what emotions it conjures up,。
whether you feel good about examinations。
because it allows you to prove how much you know,。
whether you're good or whether。
maybe physical examination's bad。
'cause you're worried about what it might reveal.。
The word examination.。
But you know, as I was thinking about this。
and looking at the sermon title,。
I was wondering how often do we examine our faith?。
How often do we examine our theology?。
How often do we examine our lives?。
2 Peter is talking about this in chapter two.。
And it's not a very nice chapter.。
I, you know what, I don't think you'll meet anyone。
who thinks 2 Peter two is their favorite chapter。
in the Bible.。
I have no friends who like that chapter.。
In fact, if there is someone,。
I don't think I'd want to be their friend.。
2 Peter two isn't a passage of scripture。
where children will learn in Sunday school to memorize.。
It's not like that.。
But I want to take us there today。
because it is oh so important.。
And it's interesting, it starts off,。
but false prophets also arose among the people。
just as there will be false teachers among you。
who will secretly bring in destructive heresies,。
even denying the master.。
It's interesting because Peter here。
is talking about false prophets.。
And it wasn't that long ago when he was following a guy。
who was warning about false prophets.。
In Matthew 24, Jesus himself was telling Peter。
and the people that were there,。
there will be false prophets.。
And when that happens,。
when people are starting to spread false teaching,。
that is when the followers,。
their love for me will grow cold, Matthew 24.。
And now we fast forward.。
Peter himself is saying the very same words.。
Beware, there are false prophets among you.。
This is an internal thing, false prophets among you.。
And they are going to bring about destructive heresies,。
even denying the master.。
This is chapter two, verse one,。
if you want to follow in your scripture.。
I think they'll come up on the slides as well.。
They will be denying the master,。
bringing upon themselves swift destruction.。
Brothers and sisters, how often do you protect yourself。
or examine yourself and examine your heart and your mind。
against destructive heresies?。
Sounds pretty hardcore, right?。
Sounds pretty deep.。
Maybe not something that we think about.。
Maybe not something that we are generally used。
to talking about in church.。
And if you just have a glance at 2 Peter chapter two,。
now you can do on your phone, you can just scroll through.。
At first glance, this chapter doesn't seem。
to have much to do with us at all.。
In fact, it's not something that we like to talk about。
'cause it doesn't make us warm and fuzzy.。
It's just a hard to read, hard to understand passage.。
But that's the first glance.。
But if you dig deeper, there are actually so many truths。
here that apply to us today.。
But as I look at this chapter, all 22 verses of it,。
we must at least have a glance at this.。
So what I'm gonna do now is I'm gonna go through this。
very quickly just to show you what Peter is talking about.。
So feel free to follow.。
The slides will be up there as well.。
So verse one, but false prophets, they will be there.。
And then they'll bring in destruction,。
destructive heresies, denying the master, denying Jesus.。
And they will bring upon themselves swift destruction.。
Verse two, and many will follow their sensuality.。
Because of them, the way of truth will be blasphemed.。
So it's not just a truth that you can have in your mind,。
but there is a way of truth.。
That means when you have truth in your mind,。
you may believe the right thing.。
But if it doesn't drop down into the way you live,。
then it's still not good enough.。
There is a way of truth that has been blasphemed.。
And verse three, and in their greed,。
they will exploit you with false words.。
In their greed, their condemnation for long ago。
is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep.。
He's saying they will face condemnation.。
They will face judgment.。
Then he goes on in verse four,。
and he gives three examples.。
Three examples of how people who have strayed away,。
who have followed false heresies,。
or who have led others astray, what their fate will be.。
The first example is, "For God," verse four,。
"For if God did not spare angels when they sinned,"。
who's he talking about?。
Likely scholars believe he's talking about Genesis 6,。
when the sons of God, angels,。
found the daughters of man attractive,。
and seeped into mankind, and brought about sin。
into the world, or furthered sin into the world.。
That was one example.。
Number two were the, verse five,。
"He did not spare the ancient world,"。
the people who were around when Noah was around,。
the people who didn't believe in God,。
who were so wicked that God saw and said,。
"We need to start over."。
But there is a righteous man, Noah,。
a herald of righteousness, a teacher of righteousness.。
So those are the second people he didn't spare.。
And then the third, verse six,。
"If by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes."。
So you see here, the three different examples,。
the angels, the ancient people from Noah's time,。
and the people of Sodom and Gomorrah.。
He's saying here, these people weren't spared.。
They met their destruction.。
The false heresies led them down a path。
that eventually led to their demise.。
But he also rescues those who follow the truth.。
Noah is an example, and verse seven, Lot.。
Both examples of the fact that if you remain righteous,。
if you don't follow the ways of the wicked,。
then God will save you.。
And then he carries on in verse 10,。
and he starts to describe these people,。
these false prophets, these false teachers.。
They're bold and they're willful.。
Verse 12, "They're like irrational animals,。
"creatures of instinct."。
This is just really painting a terrible picture.。
Verse 14, "They have eyes full of adultery,。
"insatiable for sin.。
"They entice unsteady souls.。
"They have hearts trained in greed."。
They have eyes full of adultery.。
Whoever they see in the streets,。
whoever they see anywhere,。
all they're thinking about is adultery, is about sin,。
is about sexual immorality.。
Their hearts are insatiable for sin.。
They are trained, their hearts are trained in greed.。
The word trained there is the same train。
that the Apostle Paul uses when he talks about。
in 1 Corinthians 9, disciplining your body,。
training it to do what it should.。
There's an almost expertise in it.。
There's a diligence, there's a perseverance。
in training for greed.。
Verse 15, "Forsaking the right way, they have gone astray.。
"They followed the way of Balaam,。
"who loved gain from wrongdoing."。
The story of Balaam is very interesting。
'cause it ended up being a donkey,。
a donkey that had to speak to him.。
And we'll talk about that a little bit later.。
Verse 17, "These are waterless springs。
"and mists driven by a storm."。
These are springs where from afar you think they're good.。
So you walk towards them to get drinks,。
but then you realize they are waterless.。
"They promise a lot, but deliver nothing."。
And that is what he's saying here.。
Verse 19, "They promise them freedom,。
"but they themselves are slaves of corruption.。
"For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved."。
These people, they make big promises.。
"Hey, come and do this, you'll enjoy it, you deserve it.。
"I can give you this, but soon those promises come empty."。
Verse 21, "For it would have been better for them。
"never to have known the way of righteousness."。
Because it's worse because they know the truth now.。
So what they're doing is they're turning away from the truth。
that Hebrews talks about, it's in Hebrews 6,。
that they're crucifying Christ again.。
And that is just a worse state than we were in before.。
And finally, verse 22, "Just like a dog。
"who returns to its own vomit."。
It's disgusting.。
For those of us who have dogs,。
and my dog, Walter, has been vomiting his food recently,。
it's pretty disgusting.。
But that is what he's describing here.。
These false prophets, these people。
who are enticing and steady souls.。
That is what it looks like.。
It's a grim passage, right?。
It's a grim passage, and even at first glance,。
it does not really look that fun.。
But the question that I really had is,。
I don't think I have destructive heresies in my life.。
Surely not.。
Wait, do I?。
Are there things in my life that have actually caused me。
to blaspheme the way of truth?。
And that's the question I wanted to ask you guys is,。
are there any destructive heresies in your lives?。
Are there things that you have bought into,。
that you have believed in, which actually are not true,。
and actually have caused you to go astray?。
And we look here at scripture,。
and we see all these very, very, very serious things,。
all these terrible things that people are doing.。
And then we look, oh, they're so bad.。
We're not like that at all.。
But then I look, and I'm thinking,。
I don't know, I think a lot of these things。
exist right now, right?。
We see them in society right now.。
And as I was looking at this passage of scripture,。
I was also influenced by the book I've been reading,。
which is actually a book by Richard Foster。
called "Money, Sex, and Power."。
And I realized this chapter two is basically talking。
about the battle with money, sex, and power.。
So you may think that you do not have。
any destructive heresies in your life.。
And I may think that, but my goodness,。
I think we all battle with money, sex, and power。
to some degree.。
There's a pastor in town recently emailed me。
and just talking about just the situation in Hong Kong,。
this city itself.。
And he mentioned those three key words again this week.。
He was like, those are the three things。
that really chain this city down.。
And nowhere else in the world will you see。
these three things at play the most.。
And verse one there where he's saying。
they're even denying the master.。
These are the three things that cause followers of Christ。
to deny their master.。
My question to all of us today is,。
are any of those three things affecting you?。
Money, sex, and power.。
It's interesting, but let's rewind a little bit。
and talk about the word heresy.。
What does the word heresy actually mean?。
What is a heretic?。
Now, usually it's to do with the Christian faith.。
So I think I'll get a definition.。
Belief or opinion contrary to Orthodox Christian faith.。
A false view of ultimate reality.。
That leads to destruction.。
An opinion held by someone。
that is against the core tenets of the faith.。
That is a heresy.。
And I think the three that I want to address briefly today。
are money, sex, and power.。
It's gonna be one of those sermons.。
And I really battled with God for a long time about this.。
Because actually we don't talk about these things.。
Someone recently told me last week,。
the church doesn't talk about money.。
We don't have to talk about money.。
And actually, you pastors don't have any money,。
so you don't even know how to talk about money.。
Which is so true.。
And I'm like, yeah, so I'm not qualified。
to talk about money.。
But yet, it's the biggest thing that holds us back.。
And they're all linked.。
They're all intertwined.。
People use money to buy sex.。
People use sex to get money.。
People use money to buy more power.。
And then to have power, to then get more money.。
These are all linked.。
And they are all so, so serious.。
But I would also say that they're not supposed to be bad.。
In fact, in their proper place,。
in our Christian life, in our Christian way,。
that actually they can be used for enormous, enormous good.。
I was speaking to a banker recently。
who is a follower of Jesus.。
And he was saying, you know, as bankers,。
we get paid way too much.。
And I was like, you know what?。
This might be bordering heresy.。
I don't agree with that.。
Actually, if you're a follower of Jesus,。
I don't think you can be paid too much.。
You are entrusted with a lot.。
God has chosen to give you X amount of money。
for you to use, for you to steward.。
So I don't think you can be paid too much, technically.。
It all depends on the matter of the heart.。
And actually, we were singing about revivals.。
We were singing about revivals,。
and I realized in the history of the church,。
spiritual revivals have often come。
when there have been bold and clear responses。
to these three things, money, sex, and power.。
If we are seeking revival,。
if we are nearing revival on the verge of it,。
we need to address these three things。
because these are the three strongholds in our lives,。
in this city, in our churches.。
And that's what Peter's talking about here.。
These things are happening within the church.。
And we've seen recent prominent pastors。
fall to this very thing.。
So no one is exempt.。
So why aren't we talking about it?。
Now, this sermon is not gonna be able。
to cover all three of those issues at length,。
but I wanted to at least start this conversation.。
I wanted to at least bring this up to the surface.。
And if there is anything that's happening in our lives,。
then we need to find the right people。
and the right places and the right times。
to talk about these things, money, sex, and power.。
And I wanted to start with the first one, money.。
Verse three, "And in their greed,。
"they will exploit you with false words."。
In their greed, they will exploit you,。
they will manipulate you, they will lie for personal gain.。
And then verse 15, what I talked about earlier,。
"They have hearts trained in greed."。
They're trained, they're experts in it,。
experts in accumulating things,。
personal gain, possessions, wealth, experts.。
I think we in Hong Kong have so many experts。
in accumulating wealth.。
I've never ever seen so many wealthy people。
other than in Hong Kong.。
But then I've also seen so many generous people.。
So now how do we find that balance?。
It's all about the change of heart.。
And then he gives a strange example, Balaam, verse 15.。
"They have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor,。
"who loved gain from wrongdoing,。
"but was rebuked for his own transgression.。
"A speechless donkey spoke with human voice。
"and restrained the prophet's madness."。
A speechless donkey starts to speak.。
Have you heard that story?。
It's a peculiar story.。
So Balaam is actually a very prominent prophet。
in Jewish culture.。
And he was a prophet that was approached by a foreign king,。
the king of Moab, Balak.。
And then Balak wanted Balaam to curse Israel。
because this king of Moab was getting scared.。
The Israelites were starting to gain power.。
They were starting to move into the Promised Land.。
And so this king was like, "We need to sort this out.。
"We need to preempt their attack.。
"Let's find a prophet to send a curse onto them."。
So Balaam, and to Balaam, this very renowned prophet,。
hears a message from the king of Moab.。
And what does he do?。
What does scripture tell us to do here?。
He sells out.。
For personal gain, he ends up selling out.。
Now it's interesting how he does it.。
So when he hears this message from Balak,。
he then travels.。
And how does he travel?。
He travels on a donkey, and he travels to Moab,。
hoping to meet this king,。
eventually to basically work with him。
and partner with him。
in bringing down the destruction of the Israelites.。
But as he's going on the path, his donkey stops.。
His donkey stops and doesn't want to carry on again.。
And so Balaam's like, "What's going on?"。
In reality, the donkey could see an angel。
right in front of them, so he couldn't walk through.。
So he stops.。
But then Balaam rebukes the donkey, beats the donkey,。
and then the donkey tries to squeeze on and carry on.。
And then he goes a little further,。
and then the donkey is stuck between a war。
and something else, and he stops again.。
And then Balaam's like, "Why are you stopping?"。
But again, the angel of the Lord is there.。
And then so Balaam beats his donkey again.。
And then he does it again.。
And eventually, the donkey speaks out.。
And the donkey says, "Don't you know that I've been faithful。
and loyal to you all this time?。
Why are you beating me?"。
And then at that moment, the angel reveals himself.。
And Balaam is rebuked and convicted.。
And so you'd think that'd be the end of the story,。
but he doesn't.。
Actually, he tries to then work his way around it.。
Instead of giving a curse, he still wanted the money.。
So he got to meet Balak, the king of Moab,。
and he said, "I can't give a curse.。
Whatever God blesses, I cannot curse."。
So time and time again, he resists,。
but then he tries to find a loophole.。
Eventually, what does he do?。
He tells the people of Moab,。
"I'll tell you how you can bring about curse on Israel。
without me having to do it and me getting into trouble.。
I'll tell you what you do.。
You introduce women into their culture, into their society.。
You seduce them, and you will bring about the curse。
that way."。
He did this for personal gain.。
Money, sex, and power, all those thousands of years ago,。
the same issues that we deal with today.。
Money.。
Money is one of the key destructive heresies.。
Martin Luther said this,。
"There are three conversions when someone。
becomes a Christian.。
There is first a conversion of the heart,。
then there is a conversion of the mind,。
and finally the conversion of the purse or the wallet,。
because where your treasure is there, your heart is also."。
So my question to all of us is,。
how much do we struggle with this?。
How much do we consciously and subconsciously struggle。
with the issue of money?。
Jesus talks about money so much and possessions,。
and he says, "You cannot serve both God and money."。
And the word he uses for money is mamon,。
which is basically giving it a spiritual,。
personal character.。
He's saying money isn't just this neutral, dead thing.。
It isn't just these coins.。
It isn't just these pieces of paper.。
Money is alive and well.。
It is a rival God seeking to destroy and consume you。
if you allow it.。
You cannot serve both.。
Sometimes we think money is this neutral thing。
that always, no, Jesus is saying it is a rival God.。
Keller would call it a counterfeit God.。
It's something that can seek to take over。
God's place in your life.。
It will cause you to deny your master.。
The apostle Paul tells Timothy,。
what did he say in 1 Timothy 6?。
The love of money is the root of all kinds of evil.。
Not money itself, but the love of money.。
But these days, they seem to be synonymous.。
Money, everyone seems to love money.。
We might be in love with money.。
And it's the root, not all kinds of evil.。
So it's not all kinds of evil,。
it's the root of all kinds of evil.。
That doesn't mean that everything evil is caused by money.。
That means that people who want money。
will stop at no evil to get it.。
It means people who want money will stop at nothing。
and commit all kinds of evil to get it.。
But if redeemed and conquered, it can be used for good.。
We see Jesus and Zacchaeus, the tax collector,。
who has been cheating his own people for years.。
And then he's confronted with Jesus.。
And then he ends up just giving it all back and more.。
And then Jesus declares, "Today salvation has arrived。
at this house."。
In Luke 8, you see a story of Jesus.。
Jesus isn't repulsed or repelled by people who are wealthy.。
'Cause money isn't, he doesn't see money in that way.。
He created all things.。
In fact, in Luke 8, we see that he, in his ministry,。
there were wealthy ladies who actually supported。
his ministry.。
But that wasn't the thing that he's worried about.。
The thing is, do we fall in love with money?。
And if we do, then we must repent。
because this one can destroy you.。
And we see it time and time again.。
And maybe in the Chinese culture,。
the one that hits most close to home is gambling.。
The desire for money can destroy one's life.。
Is that one of the destructive heresies that we have?。
Because if it is, we need to confess and be healed.。
It is huge.。
And I can say it's a battle that I face every day as well.。
How do we cope with, how do we talk about,。
how do we use money?。
Money.。
Let's reflect on that and let's surrender everything。
that we have and allow God to use it。
in whatever way he desires.。
Money.。
Second one, sex.。
Verse two, they will follow their sensuality.。
And then verse 10, we see here,。
and especially those who indulge。
in the lust of defiling passion.。
And then verse 14, they have eyes full of adultery,。
insatiable for sin, they entice unsteady souls.。
You see, during that time, there was a group of people。
that were rising in the church that Peter knew about。
that believed in something very interesting.。
They believed that in order for you to be saved,。
you needed to have the special knowledge.。
You had to be in the know, maybe the original,。
the place that was invented, when you know, you know.。
And they were called the Gnostics.。
And they started something called Gnosticism,。
which is basically this idea of,。
in order to gain salvation, you just,。
once you know it, you will have salvation.。
And furthermore, how does that play out in your life?。
Your spiritual life is very much separated。
from your physical life.。
They're two separate things.。
So what they're saying is, if you know,。
and you're saved, and your soul is saved,。
you can do anything you want with your physical life,。
with your physical body.。
It doesn't affect it, guys.。
'Cause we, how do you know?。
'Cause we know.。
And then they would basically say,。
you can do whatever you want.。
You can follow whatever passions。
that you have in your flesh.。
You can do it because your soul is saved,。
because you know.。
And so Peter's saying here, that isn't how it works.。
And he's describing them.。
They have eyes full of adultery.。
Everywhere they go, they're looking at people。
like animals, wanting to consume.。
And even though that sounds so crazy,。
isn't that what we're filled with here?。
Just walk down the MTR station.。
What are the adverts that you see surrounding you?。
What has it become in our mindset, in our life?。
And is the church trying to address it?。
That's the question that I'm asking myself.。
Because we know that sex is a very, very good thing.。
In fact, someone said one of the greatest tragedies。
in church history is the separation。
of spirituality and sexuality.。
It's the greatest tragedy of the separation。
of spirituality and sexuality.。
God created sex.。
God has such a high view of sexuality.。
For one being to be loving and to be loved。
and to be known by another being.。
To be willing to give themselves completely,。
to commit themselves for the whole of their lives.。
Sexuality and spirituality are friends, not enemies.。
Yet what we've done is we've twisted it all.。
We have twisted it all to the point where。
we are now just like the animals.。
God created it to be so, so much more。
than what we advertise it to be in the MTR stations.。
So, so much more.。
Yet here we are fighting the same things。
that they fought all those thousands of years ago.。
We, as a body of Christ, need to enlarge。
our view of sexuality.。
So what we're saying here is those topless bars。
or pornography or all those adverts,。
they're not showing sexuality too much.。
They're not showing it enough.。
They've got a low view of sexuality.。
But if we were truly to understand why God created it,。
then we would have the high view.。
Then we would be able to truly understand。
what sex was supposed to be.。
We've believed in that destructive heresy。
and that has taken over our lives.。
Brothers, sisters, is sex one of your masters?。
Is it one of the things that are gripping you?。
If it is, one, you're not alone.。
Two, bring it to God.。
Because God created it and he knows.。
And he calls us to see it as he sees it.。
I rewind back and I think I've got the verse in Genesis.。
Adam and Eve were in the garden, naked and unashamed.。
Unashamed.。
Yet somehow, now, we have turned it completely away。
from what it was supposed to be.。
First, money.。
Then, sex.。
And finally, power.。
Secretly bring in destructive heresies, verse one.。
Even denying the master who brought them, verse 10.。
And especially those who indulge in the lust。
of defiling passion and despise authority.。
They're bold and they're willful, verse 13.。
And 14, and they're enticing and steady souls.。
Power is dangerous because power influences。
our relationships with each other and with God.。
We see it in play in the world right now.。
And again, power itself can be used for good.。
Authority can be used for good.。
Yet, we, once again, have twisted it.。
You see, power can destroy or create.。
It can destroy or create, but it's up to us。
to decide how we use it.。
Adam and Eve, as I was talking about earlier,。
they had everything.。
They had everything they could have ever wanted。
in this perfect Garden of Eden.。
But what was the sin in the Garden of Eden?。
The sin of power.。
The sin of wanting to take control.。
The sin of wanting more.。
And power's a very interesting thing.。
You may thirst for power, but once you get it,。
you then want more.。
And it just keeps going, and then it's just a vicious cycle。
that you can't get out of.。
And that's what we have in this world right now.。
And I was reading recently, the leaders of the free world,。
or maybe not even free world, a lot of them,。
what is the key characteristic that they have?。
That they are narcissists.。
That they are completely consumed by themselves,。
and all they want to do is control other people.。
And that isn't the kind of leader that you want.。
Jesus himself displayed what the kind of leader。
that we want.。
We want a servant king,。
the one who's willing to give up himself.。
Yet, the way of the world has completely。
taken us another way.。
And you can see how power can completely destroy lives.。
And we can see it right before our eyes.。
You need to switch on the news.。
You need to just open up SEMP,。
and you will see how power destroys our world.。
Power.。
King Saul was destroyed by power.。
But really, it comes back to pride.。
It comes back to pride.。
And what is pride?。
The one I love the most, the definition of pride is。
an inaccurate view of oneself.。
And I've talked about this before,。
because pride and insecurity are really the same thing.。
It's an inaccurate view of oneself.。
Someone who's very prideful,。
who feels the need to boast about everything,。
is because they're insecure.。
Someone who is very insecure has forgotten。
about their actual and accurate perception of themselves.。
So they feel as though they have to do everything。
on their own.。
But if we can fight both of those,。
then we will realize that we are all children of God.。
Children of the most high God, co-heirs with Christ.。
Power starts from pride,。
starts from thinking that we need to take credit。
for something that we don't deserve.。
To have more power than what we're able to handle.。
And God, I was talking to someone else recently,。
God hates boasting, right?。
God absolutely hates boasting.。
But the question is, do we boast?。
For those of you who have children,。
you'll know that sometimes you see your kids。
and they enjoy doing something that they love。
and they get really good at it,。
but then they do boast.。
And it's like, you know what?。
That doesn't look as good.。
That's not a good look.。
When you think that this is all because of you.。
But that's what we do, right?。
In our quest for power, we reveal our pride.。
We reveal our insecurities.。
And what does scripture say in Proverbs 16?。
Pride is the thing that comes before the destruction。
or before the fall.。
It is us forgetting who we actually are,。
that we don't need to fight for significance.。
We don't need to fight for relevance。
because we already are because of Jesus.。
Money, sex and power.。
You see, these destructive heresies,。
they cause us to blaspheme the way, the truth.。
And all of these issues, these three big three issues。
come down to one thing.。
It's on the next slide.。
Have we denied him as our master?。
Brothers and sisters, I just wanna spend a few minutes now。
before I finish up.。
Examine your life.。
Examine your heart.。
Examine the way that you live.。
Who is the master there?。
If someone looked at your life。
and followed you 24/7 for one week,。
what conclusion would they come to。
in terms of who is the master?。
Would they see that actually money。
is the thing that controls you the most?。
Is the thing that drives you to,。
is the thing that gets you up in the morning?。
Of course, realistically it is。
'cause it's the thing that causes us to go to work.。
But does it consume you to an unhealthy level?。
Because you cannot love God and money.。
Is that your master?。
Or is it sex?。
Or is it forgetting what God created sex to be?。
Have you become like an irrational animal?。
Jesus has something more for you.。
Or is it power?。
As they look at your life,。
as they look at how you go about work and friends,。
or even church, there's constant power struggles in churches,。
which is the most pathetic one, I feel.。
Or racing to be the most humble person.。
Is power the master in your life?。
Is that the one that consumes you?。
Because I tell you, that thirst will never be satisfied。
just by you searching for more power,。
just for you to climb up the ladder more and more.。
You will not be satisfied.。
Come before God.。
Do not deny Him as master any longer.。
And I wanna finish just with this.。
The question is, okay, we get it.。
Money, sex, and power, these are the things。
that I struggle with, these are the things。
that you struggle with.。
But the question is, what can we do?。
How are we able to address these things,。
face these things, head on, talk about them?。
Well, I personally believe this is a start。
to even confess that these are the things。
that we face in this city, in this church, in our lives.。
But then there are a few things that I want to finish with。
that I think will help us.。
Number one is, oh, actually, they're all three questions。
so we can just put them all in one go.。
The first question I'd like to ask you is,。
do you know His word?。
This starts with scripture, it has to.。
It has to start with scripture.。
Do you know God's word?。
And I'll tell you why it's so important.。
It isn't just, you need to read the Bible。
because good Christians read the Bible。
so you just have to read it, no.。
Because if you read God's word, if you read the Bible,。
I'll tell you what it'll do,。
it will show you the truth about you.。
It will tell you who you are.。
If you know God's word, it will tell you why you are here.。
It will tell you that you needed to be rescued。
and it will tell you that you have been rescued.。
And if you know the truth about who you actually are,。
then you will be secure in your own identity,。
then you won't have to fight for power.。
Do you know His word?。
Do you know what scripture says?。
Have you examined your mind?。
And do you know enough about what God says about you?。
Because if you do, you will know who you are。
and you will no longer need to fight。
and keep questing for power.。
Second is, do you know His heart?。
So this is a step after you know His word。
because once you know His word,。
it's not enough just to keep it up here, right?。
It needs to drop into the heart.。
And I'm not talking about,。
are you able to memorise 100 Bible verses?。
This isn't what it is.。
This is, do you know God's heart for you?。
Have you spent enough time with Him?。
That song there again,。
"Break my heart for what breaks yours,。
"everything I am for your kingdom's cause."。
If you spend enough time with God,。
you will start to know His heart.。
If you spent enough time with me,。
you would know that I eat McDonald's at least once a week.。
And then I eat roast duck at least once a week.。
And so clearly meat is a thing that I like.。
So you will know what James' heart is.。
If you spent a week with Johnny,。
you will see that he's gonna grow up soon.。
We're praying hard for that day.。
Knowing him, it will be a day just before Jesus comes back.。
But if you spend enough time with God,。
you will know His heart.。
And this is even, this is from studying His word.。
This is from reading His love letter to you.。
You will discover His heart and you will know what love is.。
Because if you know His word, you will know His heart。
because you will know that He is love.。
And when you know that He is love,。
you will then in turn know that you are loved.。
And when you know that you are loved,。
then you will know how to love。
because He's shown you how to love.。
That there is no greater love than this。
when one would lay down their lives for another.。
And you will see how Jesus loves you。
and you will finally get how to truly love。
by giving yourself up for someone else.。
Then you will be able to have the correct,。
the high view of sexuality.。
You will know truly what it means to love someone else.。
And finally, do you know His worth?。
Do you know scripture well enough?。
Do you allow that to drop into your heart。
so you know that you are loved?。
And do you know what He did for you?。
Philippians 2, did you know that He was equal to God?。
He was God and He was the Word of the beginning?。
Yet He gave Himself up, He emptied Himself for you.。
He deemed you worthy of His life.。
And did you know that He is now the name。
exalted above every name?。
Did you know that He is the one,。
He's the only one who can completely satisfy you?。
Your wife can't do it, your husband can't do it,。
your boyfriend, your girlfriend,。
your professor, your boss, none of those people。
can satisfy you like He would.。
Do you know that?。
Do you know His true worth?。
Because when you do, you will count everything else as loss。
when compared to knowing Him.。
And when you do those things of this world,。
money will not be the idol that holds onto you.。
You will be willing to let it go, why?。
Because you know you have something so much more,。
so much bigger.。
So know His Word and you'll be able to conquer power.。
Know His heart and you'll be able to conquer sex.。
Know His worth and you'll be able to conquer money.。
Brothers and sisters, we need to talk about these things.。
We are praying, we are singing,。
we are yearning for a revival,。
but it won't come unless we address these three things。
with clear and bold responses。
and that is the job of the church.。
That is your duty, my duty.。
It is our responsibility to show the world a different way,。
to show the world a different way.。
Money, sex, and power, these are the things。
that are the destructive heresies of that day and of today.。
And I just wanted to finish with one of my favorite verses。
when it comes to examination and it's Psalm 139.。
And I just wanted for all of us。
to be able to spend a few minutes now.。
So as I invite the band to come up,。
I just want to read those verses to you。
and of course if you know them already,。
I invite you just to close your eyes.。
I'd like to perform an examination。
of our hearts this evening.。
You know, I've spoken a lot。
and you've probably forgotten most of it.。
(whimpering)。
But I want us to have a little bit of space now。
to allow us to open our hearts to God.。
As the Psalmist says, "Search me, O garden, know my heart.。
"Try me," or another version is, "Test me。
"and know my thoughts.。
"And if there is any grievous or offensive way in me,。
"lead me on the way everlasting."。
Let's close our eyes.。
(pages rustling)。
Let us just remain silent here just for a second。
without any noise or just...。
God, we just come before you.。
We're confronted with that hard truth。
that we fall short once again.。
(pages rustling)。
We lose our battle and we forget your worth.。
We forget your heart, we forget your word.。
And Holy Spirit, I invite you just to be here right now。
just to speak to us about any destructive heresies。
that are in our own lives.。
Any ways that we have denied you as our master.。
'Cause we call you Lord, so you are our master。
and we pray that that truth seeps into the way that we live.。
So I come alongside my brothers and sisters.。
As your children, we repent of...。
Of anything offensive in us to do with any of us.。
Any of those three things.。
And show us the way everlasting.。
Show us how those things can glorify you.。
Show us how those things can be good.。
Show us how even though the enemy uses them for evil,。
Lord, that you can use them for good.。
So we repent and we ask that you redeem and you restore.。
And as a body, we come before you now.。
We just ask you to forever reign in our hearts.。
And we realize the answer to those problems,。
to our problems, isn't actually to just look within,。
but it's to look up.。
To look to you, to see that you are good。
and there is nothing good in us.。
You are love, you are hope, you are light.。
And we know we can conquer those things。
not by running away from them,。
but by running towards you.。
You are the only thing that doesn't corrupt.。
You are the only being that doesn't consume us。
to that level where it destroys us.。
So you are good.。
And we worship you.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
