So since this is our last sermon on this series, let me do a quick recap of what has happened。
throughout the book of Judges.。
Now the story began with the death of Joshua, who led the Israelites into the land of Canaan。
after they had wandered 40 years in the wilderness.。
And God gave them victory, but they had failed to drive out the inhabitants as recorded in。
the first chapter.。
And now we won't read through this, but I just wanted to show you how they did not drive。
out the inhabitants, did not drive out the inhabitants.。
And it's repeated throughout from verse 27 all the way to 33.。
And what we see is as a result, the lifestyle of the Israelites were very much affected。
by the non-believing people that were in Canaan.。
And they did evil in the eyes of the Lord.。
And the pattern of this book has been really clear, we'll be repeating them over and over。
again, which was the people rebelled against God and they worshipped idols and they didn't。
believe in him.。
And so God eventually brought judgment through the foreign oppressors.。
And now they would cry out to God again, and then God would raise up a deliverer or a judge,。
and then people would eventually turn back to God, but only to find that the sin cycle。
repeats itself.。
So now we see this chart, we can see that actually there were seven of these cycles。
that have happened.。
And actually throughout the first three chapters, it really displayed their disobedience, their。
idolatry, and also the intermarriage that was happening.。
And we see that God has actually raised up 13 judges along the way to try to help them.。
Now, for example, we see Deborah who has fought against the Canaanites, and Gideon fighting。
against the Medianites, and Samson against Philistines, and so on.。
So we can see that the patterns are just repeating itself.。
And now we're in the last chapter, we're going to find out, has anything changed?。
I can already give you the answer, nothing has changed, but maybe even worsened.。
So now, most likely, the book was not written in chronological order.。
And so the chapter 17 to 21, we actually see scenarios of moral decay that most likely。
happened within the timeframe of chapter 13 to 16.。
So and now we're looking at the last two chapters.。
And so here it begins like this in chapter 20.。
Now the only, what we see here is that at the beginning of this chapter, we see 400,000。
Israelites getting together.。
And they range from Dan all the way to Beersheba.。
Now do you, does anybody recall what happened in chapter 19?。
Does anybody recall?。
Let me try to see the chat box.。
Okay, as you're typing, I'm going to give you a little bit of background what has happened.。
Now because, remember the concubine, yes.。
So we say the word concubine, it should ring a bell where there was an unnamed Levite.。
And while he was trying to get his concubine back from his father-in-law, he passed by。
this town.。
And these townspeople actually came after him.。
And eventually, he had to give his concubine out to them.。
And they raped her until the morning and she died.。
And eventually, he cut her, the crops out and gave it to the tribes of Israel.。
So now at the beginning of chapter 20, all the tribes came and there were 400,000 men,。
except the tribe of Benjamin was not there.。
Now because if we look at the map here, Gibeah, let me see, is it showing?。
Sorry, Gibeah, which is where the concubine disaster happened, was actually part of where。
Benjamin, the tribe of Benjamin was.。
And they were trying to protect this tribe.。
And so the men gathered at Mishpah, all those 400,000 men, as you can see here on the map.。
And so all these men came together and they asked the Levite, "What's happening?。
Why have you given us parts of a body as a message?"。
And this is what he says, "And the Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered,。
answered him, 'I came to Gibeah that belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend。
the night, and the leaders of the Gibeah rose against me and surrounded the house against。
me by night.。
They meant to kill me and they violated my concubine and she's dead.。
So I took hold of my concubine, cut her into pieces and sent her throughout all the country。
of the inheritance of Israel.。
And they have committed abomination and outrage."。
Now actually, according to chapter 19, the men did not want to kill him.。
They only wanted to have, well, I shouldn't say only, but they wanted to have sexual relations。
with him.。
And so, and he never mentioned the fact that he was a coward and he just gave his concubine。
out to these men to save himself.。
So here, he's also putting a judgment out to say that they've committed abomination。
and outrage.。
Now, the Israelites wanted to only now punish the men of Gibeah, but because Benjamin, the。
tribe would not let them, and instead they prepared 26,700 fighting men that would fight。
against the 400,000 Israelites.。
Okay, so that's 15 times more people, but yet the Benjamin Knights are still saying,。
we're not willing to give up the people of Gibeah.。
So now they're about to go to war.。
Now before going up, they asked the Lord, "Who of us shall go first against the Benjamin。
Knights?"。
All right?。
And that was the first time they asked.。
And God's response was, "Judah shall go first."。
All right, now my question to you is, what do you think the result is?。
Did the men of Israel win or did the Benjamin Knights?。
Can you type it in the chat box?。
Israel lost.。
Okay?。
The Benjamin, okay, so Benjamin won.。
All right, I can see that the people who are answering that the Benjamin won probably read。
ahead.。
Now, on a logical level, they should not win because there are 400,000 men.。
And even the Lord says, "Go, Judah should go first."。
So it just makes sense that the Israelites should win, but they didn't.。
And so they asked again.。
So what happened was that there were 22,000 of the Israelites that died during this battle.。
Now, all right, so they cried out to the Lord, but they encouraged one another and to take。
their position again.。
And now they're asking the Lord one more time, "Shall we go up against, to battle against。
the Benjamin Knights, our brothers?"。
And the Lord one more time answered them, "Go up against them."。
And so my question again would be, what do you think the result is?。
And if you've read ahead, maybe you shouldn't answer.。
All right, if you've read ahead, just answer as well.。
Israel won?。
Yeah, who won?。
All right.。
So this time, if you have picked Israelite to win, you're a very logical person because。
again, there are way more Israelites than the Benjamin Knights.。
But this time, the Benjamin Knights won again.。
And what we see is that we have...。
I'm blocking myself.。
Okay.。
We have 18,000 people of the Israelites who died.。
Now this is mind boggling.。
I don't know if you were the Israelites, I don't know if you would back out at this time。
or if you're just gonna try again, but they were determined.。
So now they're gonna go to the Lord and ask again.。
But before that, what we see is that the people wept and they fasted and they presented sacrifices。
to the Lord.。
And they even asked through this high priest called Fineheights.。
And then they asked, "Shall we go up against the battle with Benjamin, our brother or not?"。
Now again, the Lord replied, "Go tomorrow, for I have given them into your hands."。
Now let's guess one more time.。
Who's gonna win this time?。
All right, Israelites are gonna win.。
Thanks, Virginia.。
And that's correct.。
And this time, eventually, I don't know how many rounds they would have done this if they。
lost again, but eventually they did win.。
And it is the third time that they win.。
And this time what we find is that there are only 600 Benjamin Knights surviving, which。
meant there was over 25,000.。
There were 25,000 Benjamin Knights who died.。
Now I just want to ask you, I mean, does it seem right?。
I don't know.。
What about, you know, listening to this story, something seems off.。
Okay.。
It seems like the Lord said, "All right, go fight them."。
But then all these men die and, you know, they're asked again.。
I mean, if God wanted to let them win, shouldn't they let them win the first round?。
So there wouldn't be so many Israelites that would die.。
So now I guess it's kind of a rhetorical question, but if you could also answer it, do you have。
any idea why is it that the Lord made the win on the third round, but not the first。
one?。
It would have saved us some time.。
We didn't have to read so many Bible verses, right?。
Well, I've looked at this a little bit longer than you have.。
So I can come to an answer right away, which I want to share with you.。
Now something very eerie is happening, right?。
And it brings us to our very first point, which is let God be the king of your decisions.。
Now why do I say that?。
Because the Israelites, they knew that the men of Gibeah committed an extremely immoral。
act, and they wanted to purge all this evil and just put them to death.。
And they were rightly to do so because in Deuteronomy, it does tell us that capital。
punishment for serious violation was necessary.。
But when Benjamin, that tribe really disturbed that sanction, they had to go against them.。
So it only makes sense that the Israelites do quote unquote, what is right in the eyes。
of the Lord.。
How can that even be wrong?。
How can God not give them victory on the first round?。
But if we look more closely, we'll see that the first time they came to the Lord with。
confidence about what the Lord wanted.。
And they focused on who would go, but not rather or not they would go.。
And God's answer answered them directly.。
If you ask me who, I said Judah.。
Judah should go.。
And the second time again, we looked at it, they added a little, things start to change。
a little bit.。
And not only did they wet because of all the losses, but they start to ask, shall we go?。
Because Benjamin is actually our brother and we're going to kill them.。
And yet, you know, it seems right because Deuteronomy asked us to purge all the evilness.。
And now in the third round, what we see is that they were weeping and they were going。
to God with a kind of desperation as well.。
But notice that this time the inquiry was very different.。
They actually went to the high priest and also they asked, shall we go just like the。
second time, but it says or not.。
Now, I don't know about you, but this time I could see that the Israelites has changed。
their attitude.。
When they first came, they knew exactly what they wanted to do.。
And they were just asking God like an endorsement, endorse us, give us this blessing.。
And to the last one, they were really asking God, God, is this what you want?。
What is it that you want?。
Help us make decisions that are aligned with what you want.。
And we're like that too, you know, where we go to God sometimes with a pre-assumed answer。
already.。
And we just want God to endorse it and give us a stamp so that God can seal the blessing.。
Or let me give you an example.。
Sometimes we might find a girl or a guy that we want to date and we'll pray to God, God,。
should I be with this person?。
But even before asking them, it seemed like we had an answer in our heart.。
And all we wanted to do is for God to say, yes, go ahead.。
I'm going to bless you and everything will be fine.。
Or are we asking him to really seek what is it that he wants as a king in our decision。
making?。
What is it that he wants?。
Do we really want his will or are we just saying it and pretending that we want his。
will?。
Now, one way to be sure is that we can check and see if it's okay when he says no.。
So notice in the last inquiry, it was, shall we go or not?。
It was showing a sign that they were willing to take no.。
If that was not what God wanted, that's okay.。
Now, before coming to KFCI, I wasn't sure if I should take this role.。
I mean, as much as everything aligned because my background and the needs of this role seemed。
to match well, I wasn't sure.。
And I wanted this role because it was something that I've dreamt of with God and I really。
want to participate to sharing the truth of God in church.。
And I still remember leading up to signing the contract, I was telling God, I want this,。
but only if you want it to.。
And I mean, I'll do my best to go through the interviews and the deacons are here.。
Hello, deacons.。
I'm going to try to prepare for this position, but if it isn't what you want, I really told。
God that I would be sad, but I'll be okay.。
And you can do what you want.。
I didn't just come here for his endorsement, but I wanted him to make decisions as my king.。
And I think what really changed, because I wasn't always like that.。
I mean, I probably prayed the prayer of, can I be with this guy, that one that I just shared。
earlier.。
But what this really meant was that because I've experienced him, I've experienced his。
goodness, and I've experienced his love.。
And because I knew how much he loved me, I was able to trust him.。
I was able to say, God, I think you make better decisions.。
You should be the king of my decisions, not myself.。
And so today here, I think it reminds us also that when we make our everyday life decisions,。
are we just going to him because we want him to endorse us?。
Or are we going to him because he's the king of our lives in our heart?。
And so we want him to make the decisions for us so that we are going in his will.。
That is something for us to think about.。
Now, as we read on, at the end of chapter 20, after there are only 600 Benjamin Knights。
left, actually all the Israelites, not all, sorry, 12,000 men actually went to the Benjamin。
towns.。
In here, it actually didn't specify how many people, but they went to the Benjamin towns。
and they've killed everyone there, everything, including the animals and everything that。
they could find.。
And they even set the towns on fire.。
Then in chapter 21, after some time, the Israelites were actually very disturbed.。
You see, we're like this, we make a decision, we take action, and then now we're disturbed.。
Now why are they disturbed?。
It's because they realized that they're about to wipe out one of the tribes.。
And there are only 600 people left.。
And the biggest problem is, was they made two oaths right here.。
These are the two oaths they made before the battle.。
They said, now the men of Israel had sworn and misbe, that no one of us should give his。
daughter in marriage to the Benjamin.。
And also another oath that they said was that anyone who did not come to the battle and。
misbe, he shall surely be put to death.。
So now, even though they are regretting or they're mourning over the fact that the tribe。
of Benjamin might be wiped out, there's nothing much they could do because they can't give。
their married daughters, you see the old men there are left.。
And they can't give their daughters to them.。
And also they have this other oath, which says that they could kill anybody that didn't。
participate in the battle.。
And so some very smart man, I guess, oh, smart with a quotation, thought, oh, you know what,。
let's kill off the people that didn't come.。
And those were the ones at Jebel Dillit.。
I'm going to show you where that place is right here.。
So these were the people that didn't come to the battle.。
And so now this time, they are sending 12,000 men to strike down the inhabitants.。
But there is actually an interesting clause in Leviticus 5 that says that if you were。
to wipe out the entire town, that you could save the virgins.。
So those are the only survivors.。
And they have saved 400 virgins, female virgins.。
And they brought them back.。
And they're like, oh, what should we do with these virgins?。
How about giving it to the men that we were worried about what to do with them?。
And so what they did was they gave the 400 female virgins to the 600 men, of course,。
they weren't enough.。
So then they're now short of only 200 females.。
And so what we find is that it brings us to our second point, which is, let God be the。
king of your speech.。
Now the problem that this all arise was because they had these oaths in which they didn't。
necessarily need to have at the beginning of the battle.。
And they didn't need to say these oaths, and they could have just started the battle.。
But in the moment, in the heat of the moment, they wanted to say those things.。
But where were those things coming from?。
Just from their own heart, desire, emotion at that time, they were not coming from the。
king, which is the God.。
It was not God who asked them to make these oaths.。
It was out of their own will that they said these things.。
And now in similar way, in moments, we might be prompted to say something because we felt。
right.。
It might not be what God's thinking, but that was certainly what our emotions are telling。
us.。
And sometimes you might make a rash oath or a statement in the heat of the moment, something。
like, "I'm never going to speak to them again," or "I'm going to love you forever," or "I。
can forgive you anything," or "I can't stand you.。
I want a divorce."。
And as much as these might not be an oath like, "Oh God, I'm speaking to him and I'm。
promising in the name of the Lord," we are actually making a statement in which theoretically。
we should keep intact.。
But what we find more often than not is that we are driven, our speech is driven by our。
emotions and our personal desire, or we might want, I mean, like these men here, they might。
probably want to be more spiritual.。
Because when they say, "I won't give any daughters to the Benjaminites," they're really。
saying, "Oh, I'm so spiritual," and in which they might be, but it was out of rash.。
It was out of things that they didn't think of ahead of time.。
And that's the thing with us too.。
Now when we have to think of what things we say, are we speaking out of rash too?。
Because that will make us sound spiritual.。
That will make us sound righteous, and that is what our emotions are driving us.。
Or are we going to go to God and say, "God, this situation is really tough.。
People are doing this and that, but what do you want?。
Or what should I say on your behalf?。
What should my speech be?。
Are we letting our King, our God, guide us in our speech?"。
Now, if our God is guiding our heart, it would be that he could guide our speech too.。
But if what's inside of our heart, we are our own kings, we just do what we see fit,。
then what we say is also out of ourselves.。
And so now, let us keep on reading because we do still have one issue that we haven't。
solved.。
We don't, they have one issue that they haven't solved, which is there are still 200 Benjamin。
Knights that are without a wife.。
Now what should they do with it?。
And as we continue to read on, they actually offer a solution that not only wouldn't violate。
their oath, I mean, it wouldn't violate their oath, but then it would be a very immoral。
act.。
And this is what they suggest to the Benjamin Knights.。
"And they commanded the people of Benjamin saying, 'Go and lie in ambush in the vineyards。
and watch.。
If the daughters of Silo come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards。
and snatch each man his wife from the daughters of Silo and go to the land of Benjamin.。
And when their fathers or their brothers come to complain to us, we will say to them, 'Grant。
them graciously to us because we did not take for each man of them his wife in battle.。
Neither did you give them to them, else you would be now guilty.'。
And so the people of Benjamin did so and took their wives according to the number from the。
dancers whom they carried off."。
Now I don't know, each episode just gets more eerie than the last one.。
It's now all of a sudden, they were trying to kill these men off because they were acting。
immorally.。
And now they're turning reverse and asking them, "You know what?。
We don't have enough wives for you.。
So when these dancers come, just grab one that you like and bring them home."。
And we're thinking, "Oh my God, what's happening here?"。
And so this really brings us to our third point, which is to let...。
Oh, before our third point, this is where Silo is.。
So they're getting the wives there.。
And this gets to our third point, which is let God be the king of your actions.。
Now it isn't enough just to have God guide in our decisions, guide us in what we say,。
but it's equally important for him to be the king of our actions.。
And sometimes it's easy to justify our actions, right?。
We can say, "Oh, we just want to do this.。
It's for the good of these people."。
But along the way, we might have lied to people.。
We might have stabbed some people and...。
Not literally stabbing them, but maybe saying bad things behind their backs just to achieve,。
quote unquote, what we call a good outcome.。
And this is what the people here have been doing.。
They can legitimize their action and think that the end justifies the means.。
And in order for them to preserve this tribe, they think that's okay.。
I mean, they're taking wives for themselves so that this tribe can continue.。
So it's for a good cause, you know?。
You're doing a good job by letting them do this.。
And we actually see that around us sometimes, don't we?。
We have seen...。
I mean, even ourselves, we might legitimize certain action to say, "This is for a good。
cause.。
We should do this."。
And for example, sex before marriage is not biblical.。
And yet some Christians may have sex or even cohabitated with their boyfriend or girlfriend,。
thinking that one day we'll marry each other anyways.。
And some people can even convince themselves to say, "It will be a good practice to see。
if we're like right for each other."。
And the end does not justify the means.。
And even if they were to get married someday, it doesn't mean that they could do this in。
the meanwhile.。
It's like the Israelites.。
They wanted to preserve the tribe of Benjamin, but that doesn't mean that they could just。
take virgins for themselves.。
It doesn't mean they can just grab dancers and literally rape them afterwards and call。
them as wives.。
Those are immoral acts.。
And we need to let God be our king and guide our actions through him guiding our hearts。
first.。
And it's allowing us to think about, are we our actions?。
Are we following what he teaches us in the Bible?。
Are we following the word of God?。
Or are we constantly just legitimizing this?。
Oh, this makes sense because at the end of the day, it'll be good.。
Or are we really taking them seriously without any compromise?。
And we need to do that because he is our king.。
And this king deserves that our action along the way, whether it's the process or the ending,。
has his character, is aligned with his word.。
Now, dear friends, as we close today, not only for chapters 20 and for 21, but for the。
entire book of Judges, the author ends interestingly or rightfully with this statement, summing。
up the entire book, which is in those days, there was no king in Israel.。
Everyone did what was right in his own eyes.。
Now the ultimate root of Israelites' problem was because they had no king and no one guided。
them.。
They didn't tell them what to do, and they just thought that they were following God.。
And they thought when they inquired God about their decisions, that they were actually following。
God when in fact, they already made up their minds and they were following themselves.。
And in the same way, when they made those oaths sounding spiritual and sounding like。
they were following God, they were just following their desires and trying to make them look。
good or trying to sound like they were doing the right thing, but boxing in God.。
And in their actions to try to preserve the tribe of Benjamin, they were not doing things。
according to what God wanted.。
They were just trying to fix the problem.。
It was like covering up for their mistakes.。
And so the author tells us that they had no physical king.。
But we as readers now know that God would eventually rise up a king for them.。
And that would be from the line of Judah and King David would come.。
And eventually God would establish the ultimate ideal king, which is the Lord Jesus Christ.。
Now, however, we're not like them.。
We already have our king.。
Our king, Lord Jesus is already here and he has given us his spirit and he has placed。
it inside of us.。
We have a king.。
But, and I say, but are we still acting like we don't have a king?。
Now if you're still holding on to making decisions for yourself and not willing to let God have。
a say, maybe let him say no.。
Is that okay?。
Then I ask you to repent and let him guide your every decision.。
Maybe it seems hard at first because you don't want to let go, but he's good and he loves。
you and you will give you what is best for you.。
And that will also be his will.。
Now at the same time, if you have trouble controlling your words and the things that。
you say, it may have been according to your own desires and often you regret it soon after.。
And you can't seem to reverse them as well.。
Well, I invite you also to repent because the Lord Jesus is good and he will help you。
wipe out those things that you say and allow you to have a new start.。
And he will guide you in the words that you say so you can say words that you mean and。
let your yes be a yes and no be a no.。
And as you speak, you will speak of with Jesus's character too.。
And now lastly, if you've been just taking actions according to what you wanted to do,。
and maybe sometimes even covering up for mistakes that you've done, I want to say you don't。
have to do that anymore.。
And I invite you to repent as well and ask God to help you so that we don't only arrive。
at the right destination, but then the methodology to arriving there is also one that follows。
God.。
Now, if you've responded to all those invitations with a yes, so let your King, our God, guide。
you in your heart.。
Then really all you need to do, because it's nothing that we can do for ourselves, but。
all we do is we pray to God and we ask him to be our King, ask him to guide us.。
Even though we can't do it sometimes, but if we ask him, his spirit will help us and。
his word will guide us to the right path.。
And meanwhile, we can, while we pray, we can read his word and maybe just one chapter a。
day.。
If you really want to make God your King in your heart, in your decisions, in your speech,。
in your actions, then dedicating that one chapter a day to know him and to pray to him。
to help us so that he can be the King of our hearts, he would definitely listen to our。
prayer and help us on that.。
So then, you know, I want to end with this, which is, you know, one day I really hope。
that we're all in our old age and you know what, we'll look back and then we'll say this.。
In those days, there was a King in my heart and I did what was right in his eyes.。
And I pray that that would be a statement that we can all say.。
Let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, you're our God, you're our King, but how often do we really treat。
you that way?。
In our decisions, in our speech, in our actions.。
Father, we just want to come to you and say, we're sorry for the times that we haven't,。
but we know that you're a good, good father.。
We know that you're a good God.。
We know that as we call out to you right now and on the day that we call out to you in。
bed or in the evening or at night, that you would come and help us, that you would come。
and be our King in our hearts.。
In every day of our lives, we want to be the best God for you.。
you。
