Happy Chinese New Year!。
Happy Chinese New Year!。
Everybody have a big dinner to go to tonight?。
Okay, that's good.。
We've been working on this series, Equipping the Saints, Serving the Community.。
And I don't know if you know, but just to remind you that our church is looking to serve。
the community.。
We're looking to go and go to the south side of Hong Kong and possibly see if we can serve。
the community there, build a community centre there, and reach out to the people there.。
There are a lot of needs, actually, in the south side of Hong Kong.。
And we're working on this theme, Equipping the Saints, Serving the Community.。
Pastor Seth Kim talked about unity last week.。
And let's remind ourselves of this verse last week.。
And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to。
equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ.。
And Pastor Seth Kim talked about unity, the importance of unity when we're serving together。
as the body of Christ.。
Today we're talking about being prepared.。
Prepared.。
We gotta be prepared before we become equipped.。
And so, is there sort of a wind sound?。
No?。
It's okay?。
All right.。
Is it my breath?。
Okay.。
All right.。
Today we're talking about the passage where Jesus was led into the wilderness to be tempted。
by the devil.。
Now, before Jesus was led into the wilderness, do you know what happened?。
What significant event happened before that?。
The baptism, right?。
Jesus was baptized in the Jordan by John the Baptist.。
He was like, "No, no, you baptize me.。
No, no, you baptize me.。
No, no, no, you baptize me."。
It's like our Chinese dinners where our parents are fighting over the bill, right?。
And Jesus is like, "No, I will be baptized by you, John the Baptist."。
And there the Father gave his confirmation.。
"You are my son whom I love.。
With you I am well pleased."。
And then the Holy Spirit came upon him like a dove.。
This is one of the first symbols of the Trinity we see, right?。
One of the most significant symbols of the Trinity that we see.。
So Jesus was anointed.。
And then soon after, he was led by the Spirit to this desert.。
Now I don't know if Winnie and the team, they went to the Judean desert.。
Did you guys, Winnie, did you go to the desert where Jesus was tempted?。
Yes?。
Yeah?。
So if you see in the next slide, the Judean desert is actually quite near Jerusalem.。
It's right by the Dead Sea.。
And there's actually not much there.。
It's just like this picture, just a bunch of rocks, not many animals or any animals。
live there, probably just some scorpions and snakes and creepy crawlers.。
And so we see this big contrast from the baptism of Jesus towards the temptation of Jesus.。
The baptism of Jesus was in calm waters, calm and cool waters of the Jordan.。
And now Jesus has been led to the barren wilderness, the desert full of rocks.。
There was nothing there.。
There was only silence and solitude there compared to the big crowds.。
John the Baptist and all his followers were there.。
There was a big crowd at the Jordan River.。
At the Jordan River, the Spirit rested upon him.。
The Father's confirmation was upon him.。
But as soon after, the Spirit leads him.。
And it is not the Father's confirmation, but it is Satan's tempting that we see.。
At the baptism, he was anointed.。
He was baptized in water.。
And in the wilderness, he was attacked.。
And there is the fire of temptation.。
At the baptism, the heavens opened up.。
But in the wilderness, it was like hell.。
It was like hell.。
And so it begs the question, why does Jesus need to be tested?。
Why does Jesus need to be tested?。
Well, see, we read here in Hebrews chapter four, "For we do not have a high priest。
who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses,。
but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are.。
And yet he is without sin."。
So Jesus was tempted.。
He was tested.。
And that is because he is 100% God, and yet he is also 100% man, human.。
And humans, we as humans, we have weaknesses, right?。
And so we have different temptations.。
And Jesus was also tempted.。
But it says here in Scripture that he was tempted, but yet he is without sin,。
because he is 100% God.。
He is almighty God.。
And we see this pattern of testing within the Bible, okay?。
What are some things, some people that we see in the Bible that were also tested?。
What are some people that we see?。
Pardon me?。
Yell it out loud.。
King David.。
Yes, King David was tested with many wives.。
(laughs)。
Many wives, yes.。
Many wives.。
Somebody that was tested in the Old Testament, somebody with a son, Abraham, right?。
How was he tested?。
He was led up to the mountain with his son, and God was testing him.。
Do you love your son, who you haven't been able to have a son for so long?。
He was like 100 when he had a son.。
And having a son was so important, right, for his lineage, right?。
Us as Chinese people also, right?。
You wanna have your last name to carry on.。
And so Abraham was tested by the Lord.。
Do you love this son more than me, right?。
And then the father, God the father stopped him just before he was about。
to kill his son, to offer his son.。
And in place, God sent a lamb, symbolic, foreshadowing what would come.。
Another person that was tested, a person that went through great struggle,。
who was he?。
Great struggle.。
Job.。
God and the devil were talking, right?。
They were like, "Ah," God was like, "Have you seen my servant Job?。
He's so awesome.。
He's so awesome."。
And Satan's like, "He's only awesome because you have blessed him with so much.。
Let me test him a bit.。
Let's see if he's still loyal to you."。
And we see here his three friends saying, "You know, just deny God, you know,。
deny God, curse God and die."。
His wife is like, "Curse God and die," right?。
It's just like, God has done this to you, right?。
Because you've done something wrong.。
And Job stayed faithful to the Lord.。
He's like, "No, I have not disappointed the Lord.。
I've stayed faithful to the Lord."。
And he passed the test, the test of these boils.。
His family dying, all his possessions being taken away.。
And yet he passed the test.。
He passed the test.。
And so we here, we see today, we're going to look into three tests。
that Jesus went through.。
The first test is the test of our flesh, hedonism.。
The second is the test of our eyes, materialism.。
And thirdly is the test of our pride, egoism.。
And so Bonnie read wonderfully for us.。
And I'm just going to reread it just quickly.。
"If you are the Son of God, command these stones to bread."。
Right? Jesus was in the desert.。
He had nothing to eat those days for 40 days.。
And it says here clearly in the Bible that after these 40 days,。
he was hungry.。
Who's hungry?。
Are you guys being tempted?。
Who's thinking about food and not the Word of God right now?。
And in the same way, Satan was like, "Well, if you are the Son of God,。
command these stones to become bread."。
It's very funny. Satan uses, twists these words, right?。
"If you are the Son of God."。
Now, could Jesus be hungry?。
Yes, of course, right?。
Because we said once again that Jesus is 100% man and 100% flesh.。
Yes, he is hungry.。
And Satan says this, "If you are the Son of God,。
why do you need to go through this?。
Why do you need to stay hungry?"。
Satan is telling Jesus, "You can just pass through this trial.。
You can skip this trial."。
Right?。
And it's funny because in the baptism, God, the Father,。
fully confirms that he is who?。
He is the Son who is loved by God,。
who is pleased by God.。
And yet, Satan twists it and says, "If you are the Son of God,。
turn these stones to bread."。
Satan challenges Jesus to satisfy his flesh in an illegitimate way.。
Because God's will, God the Father's will,。
was for him to go through these tests.。
Satan is tempting him for his flesh.。
He's hungry to skip these tests, to go against the God's will,。
God the Father's will, to skip these tests。
by turning these stones into bread.。
And what does Jesus say in response?。
Jesus says, "Man shall not live by Big Mac alone."。
I mean stone alone, stone alone.。
"Man shall not live by stone, by bread alone."。
Sorry.。
By bread alone.。
What about us today?。
What about our society?。
What about our society today?。
Are we tempted by the flesh?。
Hedonism, it means we do whatever we want.。
Pleasure is the most important thing.。
The desire for pleasure.。
In our world, I would say lust is at its greatest.。
Do you know how much money the porn industry is worth?。
$97 billion.。
We are obsessed with porn.。
I mean, yesterday we were watching the Australian Open。
and we were commenting at what somebody was wearing.。
She was wearing something that was so revealing,。
we were shocked.。
She was playing tennis in something that's very revealing.。
And what we're saying here is our world is now obsessed with it.。
Lust, we see it in our movies.。
Within, you know, a couple minutes, you see these scenes,。
these sex scenes in the movies, in our TV shows,。
in our advertisement.。
Everything is pointing towards the craving towards our lust.。
Lust is such a big problem.。
Gluttony is such a big problem.。
I was listening to a podcast recently by a US Marine.。
And he's like, "It's so hard to recruit people nowadays.。
Everybody is out of weight."。
Not out of weight, overweight.。
Not awful.。
Everybody's overweight and eating junk food.。
And it's so hard for the army to recruit people.。
People are unfit and they're just at home。
playing video games or watching Netflix.。
It's such a big problem for the army.。
Gluttony is such a big problem.。
And let's be honest, these are some of the wealthiest times。
we've ever had in the history of humanity.。
We have so much food.。
We can get any food we want at any time almost.。
We have become the master of our stomachs.。
I'm guilty as charged. I love to eat.。
Who loves to eat?。
Yeah, we love to eat.。
And we've become very lazy people.。
Just sit at home and order everything.。
You can order anything online.。
Things are so convenient that we've become so lazy.。
Especially this new generation.。
The work ethic's not there anymore.。
I coach some of them and they expect things to be there right away.。
But it takes work. It takes time.。
But we've become so slothful.。
I don't know if that's a word, slothful.。
But yeah, our flesh, hedonism, lust, gluttony, sloth, wrath.。
These are all things that we still deal with today in a big way.。
The testing of our flesh.。
Let's look at the second test, the test of our eyes.。
I'm not putting an eye test up, don't worry.。
To see if you can see the words.。
But I will see if you can read with me.。
Let's read together the second test, verse 5.。
1, 2, 3.。
"And the devil took up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world。
in a moment of time." Is it an eye test?。
Let's continue reading. 1, 2, 3.。
"And said to him, 'To you I will give all this authority and their glory,。
for it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whom I will.。
For you then will worship me, it will all be yours.'。
And Jesus answered him, 'It is written,。
"You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve."'"。
The second test is the test of our eyes.。
When we walk through the mall today,。
when we walk through the streets of Hong Kong with all the advertisements,。
when we see it, we want it.。
Right? When we walk through that shoe store,。
and we see this new pair of shoe that has just come out,。
we see it and we're like, "Wow!"。
It would look so nice on me.。
Or it would be so nice to play in these shoes.。
Or we look and see these clothes, and we're like, "Wow! It would look so nice on me."。
Fight Club has this quote,。
"Advertising has us chasing cars and clothes and working jobs we hate,。
so we buy stuff we don't need."。
Isn't that so true?。
There's so much advertising out there.。
Advertising knows that if we see it and it looks appealing,。
we're gonna want it. We're gonna want it.。
That's why we're chasing cars and clothes and working jobs we hate,。
so we buy stuff we don't need.。
It's the same today, and it was the same in the time of Eve.。
Eve was presented with this fruit.。
It looked so nice.。
Satan says, "Did God really say you shouldn't eat from this tree?。
Look how nice this fruit is."。
When the woman saw that the fruit of this tree was good for food。
and pleasing to the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom,。
she took some and ate it.。
She took some and ate it because it was pleasing to the eye.。
Pleasing to the eye.。
We desire so much material wealth nowadays.。
You know, there's a stat within these couple years.。
The richest 10% of the global population currently takes home。
- do you know how much percent of the global wealth?。
52% of the global wealth.。
10% take home 50% of the global wealth.。
The poorest of the 10% earn 8% of the global wealth.。
Greed and envy are such huge issues.。
And we see it in Hong Kong, don't we?。
People with their fancy cars and Rolexes.。
Charles mentioned Rolex last time.。
I remember.。
We always compare. We always envy.。
We see somebody else has it and we're like, "How come I don't have it?。
I want that."。
The test of our eyes. Materialism.。
And what was Jesus' response?。
Jesus' response was, "Yes, you currently - Satan, yes,。
currently Satan owns this material world.。
He doesn't fight against him."。
Jesus didn't say, "No, ultimately it will come back to me.。
I will make everything new."。
Jesus doesn't argue with the devil here.。
Right?。
And Jesus is being tempted.。
He's seeing all the kingdoms and authorities of the world.。
And yet, he responds to Satan and says, "You shall worship the Lord your God。
and you shall serve him only."。
The test of our flesh.。
The test of our eyes.。
And finally, we have the test of our pride.。
Let's read together one more time.。
Verse 9.。
One, two, three. "And he took him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle."。
Is it the pinnacle? Sorry.。
"On the highest point of the temple.。
'If you are the son of God,' he said, 'throw yourself down from here.。
For it is written, 'He will command his angels concerning you。
to guard you carefully.。
They will lift you up in their hands so that you will surely。
not strike your foot against a stone.'。
Jesus answered, 'It is said, 'Do not put the Lord your God to the test.'。
When the devil had finished all this tempting,。
he left him until an opportune time.'"。
Jesus was taken to the highest point of the temple。
or the pinnacle.。
And that is this point in Jerusalem.。
And this point would have been the busiest place in the city.。
There's a lot of people, right?。
A lot of people coming into the temple,。
worshiping God, coming out of the temple.。
And Jesus is being told, "Throw yourself down from here."。
Right? And what will happen?。
It says in Psalms, according to Psalms, right?。
The angels will catch you.。
Why does Satan say this?。
What is Satan testing here?。
Satan is saying to Jesus,。
"You don't have to endure the cross.。
This cross is so painful.。
The nails in your hands, the humiliation, being naked,。
nailed onto a cross, hung onto a cross,。
naked, crown of thorns on your head.。
You can skip all this.。
You can skip the will of the Father.。
You can do something that is easier.。
Just throw yourself from the temple.。
Everybody will say, "Wow, you are great.。
You are amazing."。
And they'll see that you are the Savior.。
Satan was testing Jesus to go against。
the Father.。
He's going against the Father.。
This is the final test, the test of our pride.。
What is pride?。
Pride。
is believing that we know what's best,。
inflating our one self.。
Jesus is being tempted here in His pride to say,。
"You can go against the Father.。
You can do something better, easier."。
And that is why Satan tempted Him here.。
Eve was also tempted in her pride.。
The devil said, "For God knows that when you eat of this,。
your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God,。
knowing good and evil.。
Eat this apple, and you will be as good as God,。
as great as God, knowing good and evil."。
The test of pride.。
And we see that nowadays so much,。
especially in this postmodern world.。
It's not about truth anymore.。
It's about what you believe is right.。
What you believe is right.。
I was having a conversation with some of our youngsters recently,。
and we were having some debate, you know, some good spiritual conversation。
about whether the Bible is actually true or not,。
or whether it's written by God or not.。
And this student was very convinced,。
was not convinced that the Bible was from God,。
that the prophecies of God are true.。
And I was like, "You know what?。
You can take a look at some of these facts from this one book.。
It's called 'The Case of Christ,' right?。
'The Case for Christ.'。
It lays down a lot of significant evidence that the Bible is real.。
There's a series of them, right?。
'The Case for Christ,' 'The Case of Faith,' 'The Christ.'。
Yeah, it explains some of these things."。
And he was like, "Oh, I don't want to read it.。
I don't want to read it. All these things are biased."。
And I'm like, "Well, why don't you just take a look。
at some of the arguments that he's presenting,。
and maybe they'll start to make sense to you."。
And he's like, "No, I don't want to read it. It's bias."。
And I'm like, "Okay.。
Well, how are you going to learn the truth then?"。
He's like, "I don't know. I'll just do it on my own.。
I believe in myself."。
And isn't that what our world is now?。
It doesn't matter if there's truth.。
What most matters is what I believe, what's right for me.。
I think this is right.。
It doesn't matter what God thinks.。
I believe this is right.。
This is our pride talking.。
We believe that we are more right than the moral law maker.。
This is the test of our pride.。
And what was Jesus' response?。
"You shall not put the Lord your God to the test."。
You shall not put the Lord God to the test.。
Because He is all-knowing, all-powerful.。
Why are we testing God?。
God, we should be trusting Him instead of testing Him.。
Place our full faith in Him.。
He's almighty, all-knowing.。
And He loves us.。
But yet we test Him instead of trusting in Him.。
So what were the three tests?。
The first was the test of the flesh, hedonism.。
Pleasure is king.。
The second was the test of our eyes.。
We see and we want it, materialism.。
And lastly, the test of our pride, egoism.。
We believe we know what is best.。
We believe we know what is right.。
God doesn't matter.。
The three tests that Jesus was put through。
in order to prepare Him for ministry.。
And so, we are also being tested.。
God also is testing us.。
And in order to pass the tests, we need to know our enemy.。
What is some common things that we see from the enemy, from Satan?。
The Bible says Satan was once the morning star, right?。
He was Lucifer, one of the top three generals, right?。
There was Michael, Gabriel, and Lucifer.。
And Lucifer thought he was so beautiful。
that he was greater and better than God.。
And so, he and his legion of angels was sent down to the earth.。
And that is why we have demons.。
And Satan is the leader of them.。
And so, in order to defeat these tests or pass these tests,。
we need to know our enemy.。
And the first thing we know from this story。
is that Satan comes at an opportune time.。
He came when Jesus was tired, hungry.。
He comes when we are weak.。
In our weakness, Satan comes at an opportune time.。
He's looking. He's like the lion, ready to pounce.。
The second thing we see here that Satan is,。
he questions the truth.。
Did God really say you shouldn't eat from all the trees?。
If you are the son of God,。
he's questioning, making us question the truth.。
What God really said.。
The third thing we need to know about our enemy。
is he knows how to twist scripture for his purposes.。
Satan knows the Bible, right? He knows the Bible.。
And so, we need to know the Bible better, right?。
Or else, we're gonna be tricked.。
Satan pulled up a verse here, right?。
"For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you."。
And he sort of misses the next part,。
which is, "In all your ways."。
Satan is focusing on only one aspect of scripture,。
but not the part that is important.。
He will guard you, sort of, in your ways,。
that is, in God's ways.。
In the way of God, in God's will.。
Satan skips that out,。
so that he can just focus on the things that he wants.。
So, we need to be careful of Satan,。
when we are weak,。
when we are being questioned of our identity。
and God's love for us, our identity in Christ.。
We need to be careful.。
To know scripture more,。
so that devil doesn't twist these scriptures against us.。
And we need to know our Messiah.。
How did he overcome these tests?。
He knows scripture better, right?。
It says, "Don't put the Lord God to the test."。
He knows scripture better. He is God.。
He didn't argue with the devil, right?。
There's no sense arguing with the devil sometimes.。
We just need to know what scripture is,。
and then just flee, right?。
He knew what was righteous and the Father's will.。
He knew what was the Father's will.。
The Father's will was for him to go through these tests,。
not skip.。
Skip by turning these stones into bread.。
He knew the Father's will.。
What was the Father's will?。
Was for him to die for the sins of humanity.。
Not to skip this test by showing how great and how awesome he is,。
so that he can get off easy.。
He knew the Father's will,。
and because he did, he was able to pass these tests.。
And he was able to stand firm and maintain his integrity.。
And we need to be like Christ.。
We need to be like Christ.。
Adam died and had sin.。
Jesus did not die to prove he is God,。
and he overcame sin.。
With Adam came judgment and condemnation because of sin,。
but with Jesus came justification.。
With Adam came death,。
but with Jesus, he overcame death.。
Through Adam, we were made sinners,。
but through Jesus, we are made righteous.。
We are made righteous.。
Yes, Jesus was tempted,。
but yet he is without sin.。
Have you guys watched the Olympics?。
And you know the deadlift?。
The deadlift is like this, right?。
You're on your knees—。
You're not on your knees. You're bending your knees.。
Sorry. Sorry. English is my second language.。
Yeah, I grew up in Hong Kong. Cantonese was my first language.。
Yeah.。
So you're on your—you're bending your knees.。
See, I almost did it again.。
And then you're flipping this.。
I don't know how many kg it is.。
How many kg do you think it is?。
Who lifts weights here?。
Carlos, you used to weightlift. How many kg is this?。
145 times 3, right?。
How much is that? A lot.。
So you're lifting it, right?。
And then you're lifting it over your shoulder,。
and you have to, like, make the stance, you know,。
so that you can hold it.。
How long are you supposed to hold it for? I don't know.。
They hold it for as long as they can, right?。
To prove that they fully hold the weight.。
Temptation is like this.。
We're trying to lift this temptation,。
and it comes, and it's so heavy that we give in to it.。
And when we give in to it, what happens? We drop it.。
All right?。
But Jesus took this 45 times 3 times 6 over his shoulder,。
stood it up, and what happened when temptation and tepsting came?。
He stood firm. He stood firm.。
He didn't drop it.。
He didn't drop these weights,。
because He is God Almighty.。
We have a Savior who went through the tests that we go through.。
The temptation of our flesh, the temptation of our eyes,。
the temptation of pride, and yet He is without sin.。
He's the only one on this earth, not Muhammad, not Buddha,。
not Gandhi, only Jesus Christ.。
And that is why we are here worshiping the Lord today,。
because our God lives, overcame temptation, overcame death.。
He is the only one that can lift this weight.。
Amen. Hallelujah.。
And this is the Father's will.。
Jesus said this, "I am the true vine."。
Let's read together. One, two, three.。
"I am the true vine, and my Father is the gardener.。
He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit,。
while every branch that does bear fruit,。
He prunes so that it will be even more fruitful."。
Jesus died and rose again because He wants us to be fruitful.。
To bear fruit.。
Not so we could eat it ourselves.。
He doesn't bless us so we can enjoy the blessings for ourselves.。
He blesses us so that we can bless others.。
He wants us to be fruitful.。
And in order to be fruitful, we must first be prepared.。
He needs to cut off the lust of our flesh, our hedonism.。
He needs to cut off the lust of our eyes, materialism.。
He needs to cut off the pride of our life, egoism,。
so that He can make us more fruitful.。
That we could be equipped to serve the community.。
To expand His kingdom.。
And so, what does the Father need to cut off from you。
to make you more fruitful?。
What does the Father need to cut off of you,。
from you, to make you more fruitful?。
What temptation, what test are you struggling through。
that is holding you back from serving the Lord,。
reaching your full potential to bear more fruit?。
God wants to prepare you for His purposes.。
As the band comes up, I'm gonna give us six R's.。
The six R's to reaching our potential and overcoming tests.。
The first R is recognize.。
Recognize your weaknesses.。
If you don't believe that you have any weaknesses,。
you won't change.。
Right? I teach some students.。
They think they're great.。
Well, then there's nothing to teach.。
You teach me. You're so great.。
If you don't recognize the weaknesses that you are going through,。
then you won't change.。
We're all weak.。
We all have things that we need to overcome.。
The second thing is we need to repent of these weaknesses,。
present to them, present them before the Lord and confess them。
and say, "I agree with you, Lord, that I've gone my own way.。
I struggle with my flesh.。
I struggle with materialism.。
I struggle with my pride."。
I repent them before you.。
The next is reconcile.。
Repair that relationship with the Lord through repentance.。
And then next, what do we need to do?。
We need to recite.。
What do we need to recite?。
Recite the Word of the Lord.。
Satan knows Scripture.。
And if he knows it better than us, we're going to be in trouble.。
That's why Jesus has sent who?。
To teach us, to guide us, to lead us.。
Who has Jesus sent?。
The Holy Spirit to teach us the Word of God.。
Right?。
That's why we need to recite the Word of God so that the Holy Spirit。
will open our eyes so that we can see the truth.。
Next is we need to take responsibility.。
Responsibility for our actions.。
If we know that we're tempted in a certain situation, we need to get out of it.。
We need to take responsibility.。
Avoid those certain areas.。
Don't go to the mall if you're going to shop.。
Don't go on that website if you know you're going to buy things you don't need.。
Take responsibility.。
And the last thing is we need to reach out.。
If we could do it alone, we would have done it already.。
This is from some weight-losing advertisement, okay?。
In Canada.。
If you could do it alone, you would have done it already.。
It's from some weight-losing, all right, company.。
And it's true.。
If we could do it alone, we would have done it already.。
God has placed us in community, in fellowship, so that we could bear each other's burdens,。
so we can pray for one another and be healed according to James.。
God has placed us so that we can reach out to others and bear each other's burdens.。
Let us take a moment to just close our eyes and come before the Lord.。
Just you and Him right now.。
You and the Lord right now.。
You and the Lord.。
Let's do one or two of these steps.。
Maybe we just need to come and repent before the Lord.。
Maybe we need to come and recognize, "God, open our eyes to our own weaknesses."。
Maybe the Lord is telling us we need to be renewed as we recite the Word of God.。
Maybe the Lord is telling us we need to reach out.。
We are weak.。
We need to reach out to somebody that is close, trusted, that we can bear each other's burdens.。
Let's just take a moment before the Lord.。
[music]。
Heavenly Father, we come before you.。
We just want to admit life is hard.。
Life is a struggle.。
There are so many tests and so many temptations.。
It's so hard sometimes.。
We just come honestly and openly before you.。
We ask that the Holy Spirit would come, convict us of our sins.。
The Holy Spirit would come, open our eyes to the truth, to sanctify our hearts, to make。
us more like Christ, that we could be equipped to serve you.。
Father, help us in our weaknesses.。
Be our strength.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
