I had my daughter ask me this morning during breakfast, she said, "Daddy, what does the。
Holy Spirit do now?"。
It was like a great breakfast topic discussion, right?。
Put her on Alpha.。
Yes, just feeling, thank you Florence just for leading us in worship, just feeling just。
grateful to be here, to be able to just worship together, really feeling that the Holy Spirit。
is the one that sustains us and drives and allows us to even worship Him, to even know。
Him.。
So it's really good that we get to be here for that.。
And we're going through Old Testament women.。
Old Testament women and Johnny last week went through Rebecca and today I'm going to go。
through Leah and Rachel, or Rachel and Leah depending which way you want to put it.。
Just to give you a little bit of context then.。
So Rebecca, she has two boys and Johnny talked about this.。
What are their names?。
Isa and Jacob.。
Jacob the deceiver.。
Jacob the one who tricks, steals the blessing.。
And then eventually his mum says, "Okay, you've stolen the blessing, you've got what you want,。
it's time to go."。
So he heads off.。
He heads off across the land, finds his mother's brother, Uncle Laban, Laban, and then he goes。
to find Laban, and then before he meets Laban, he meets Laban's daughter, Rachel, who's a。
shepherdess who works for the family.。
And he falls in love with Rachel because she's beautiful.。
And so he goes back, finds us, and they have this wonderful family reunion.。
And then suddenly Laban says, "Hey, stay."。
And then Jacob says, "Yeah, I'll work for you."。
And then Laban's like, "Oh, I can't pay you nothing.。
I've got to pay you something."。
And then that's when Jacob comes out with his big request.。
"Let me marry your daughter.。
Let me marry your beautiful daughter, and I will work for you for seven years."。
Seven years.。
Just a little bit of context there.。
There is such a thing as a dowry that is paid to parents when you marry their daughter,。
and usually that's about three or four months' worth of wage.。
He's saying, "I'm going to give you seven years."。
So that's how much he loved Rachel.。
So then he works for Laban for seven years, but Scripture tells us this, and all of this。
is found in Genesis 29.。
So you can turn there if you want to.。
I will be flying around a little bit within these few pages.。
Genesis 29, let's go with 29 verse 20.。
So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days.。
Can you imagine seven years feeling like a few days?。
And then time comes.。
He's like, "Laban, it's time for me to marry your daughter."。
And Laban's like, "Okay, you're right."。
So he organizes a feast, a party, everyone comes, they have a wonderful time, and then。
at nighttime, it's time for him to receive his bride.。
But Laban pulls a sneaky.。
Instead of giving him Rachel, the beautiful one whom Jacob loved, at nighttime when Jacob。
was probably a bit drunk by then, he gives him Leah.。
Isn't that funny?。
Jacob the deceiver.。
Jacob who was the one who tricked to get his own blessing is now the one being tricked.。
As you can see, deception runs through the family.。
So then he wakes up in the morning thinking he's just had the most wonderful night with。
the woman of his dreams, and he wakes up to find Leah.。
Now there's a difference here between the two, Rachel and Leah, and it's in chapter。
9, 29 verse 17.。
Rachel was the younger one.。
Leah's eyes were weak, but Rachel was beautiful in form and appearance.。
Now there's some discussion as to what eyes were weak means, but most likely it didn't。
mean that she couldn't see very far.。
Probably that she had some kind of eye disorder.。
Either way, she wasn't as beautiful as Rachel.。
Rachel, on the other hand, was beautiful in form and appearance.。
So not only was she beautiful in terms of her face, but she was sexually attractive.。
She had the right form as well.。
So Jacob is then absolutely distraught.。
He's been tricked.。
So then he goes to Laban and goes, "What have you done to me?"。
And then Laban says, "Hey, actually, in our custom, you can't marry the younger one first.。
The older one has to go first.。
So actually, if you want Rachel, you can still have her work for me for another seven years,。
and next week I'll give you Rachel."。
And because of his love for Rachel, he says yes.。
And he ends up marrying both of them.。
What a bad idea.。
What a bad idea.。
Speaking to Ruben, he was asking me what I'm preaching on today.。
And I said, "Rachel and Leah."。
He said, "Oh, why does he have two wives?。
Why does he have more wives?"。
I'm like, "You know what?。
I don't know.。
I don't know why anyone wants two wives.。
One is more than enough."。
In fact, God felt that it was such a bad idea to have two wives, both being sisters.。
In Leviticus 18, he tells these Israelites, "You will not marry sisters together."。
It was that bad an idea.。
And why was it a bad idea?。
What happens after they get married is this interesting journey in chapter 29 and chapter。
30 of them basically having a race for kids.。
You wonder where the wonderful holy nation, the 12 tribes of Israel come from.。
They come from two sisters, basically trying to have as many kids as they could.。
12 kids in total.。
Leah starts the game off well, heads up 4-0.。
She has four at first.。
And then Rachel ends up catching up.。
Rachel ultimately ends up having two.。
But Rachel then has some sneaky ideas to get some as well.。
And ultimately, you end up with 12.。
And I'll tell you all about this story as we go through.。
But this is a story of two sisters basically competing against each other, knowing each。
other all of their lives.。
Who has siblings here?。
Have you competed with your siblings?。
Especially if one was more beautiful than the other.。
The fact that I didn't have that problem.。
I have a younger brother, but he was clearly the ugly one, so it was okay for me.。
He's actually not even here, so he can't even defend himself.。
But he really was.。
He really was.。
But anyway.。
Can you imagine just for a second being Leah?。
Being the older one and having this young little baby come into the family that steals。
all the attention.。
Then this young baby grows up into being the beautiful girl, whereas you're not as beautiful.。
Whereas you're considered to have weak eyes.。
All the aunties and uncles fawning over her, saying how beautiful she is.。
All the guys in school looking at her and not you.。
Eventually she is the one that gets picked.。
But then your dad on the very last night says, "You go first."。
Imagine the shame, the embarrassment.。
And then it doesn't stop there.。
Imagine waking up that morning thinking, "At least I'm married now."。
But then for the guy to go, "What?。
What are you doing here?"。
And then in chapter 29 verse 21, when the Lord saw that Leah was hated, which probably。
meant that she was neglected.。
So even though she was married and he took her in, he didn't give her any attention.。
Imagine that feeling of just being overlooked or ignored, neglected and hated.。
And then you look at Rachel, this beautiful girl growing up, no doubt.。
Got all the attention from all the uncles and aunties, from all the boys.。
Eventually gets the husband that's willing to work for 14 years for her.。
And then you see as the story goes on, Rachel is not that happy either.。
In fact, Rachel gets to a point where she doesn't get to have kids at the beginning.。
She's barren at the beginning where she says in chapter 30 verse 1, she's angry at Jacob。
because Leah's 4-0 up.。
And she said, "Why aren't you giving me kids?"。
And Jacob's like, "It's not my fault.。
I'm doing the same thing.。
And kids are happening over here.。
So it's something between you and God."。
And then she says, "Give me children or I shall die."。
This is Rachel, the one who had all the attention, who had all the love from the husband, who。
had all the looks.。
And yet she was at a point where she said, "Give me children or I will die."。
You look at these two sisters, you look at their story and you wonder, what on earth。
happened?。
How did it get so bad?。
How did it get to the point where this whole family has been consumed by this issue?。
And what is this issue?。
What is the issue that plagued this whole family, all these two sisters?。
I think it's in chapter 30 verse 1, envy.。
Scripture says that Rachel envied Leah because she had kids and she didn't.。
One of the deadly sins, the desire to possess something that others have, envy.。
But it's actually even worse than that.。
It's not just wanting what they have.。
There's a negative feeling.。
It's if I can't have it, they can't either.。
That's envy.。
Scripture describes it as being intensely red.。
It's this idea of just seeing what other people have, being completely discontent, resenting。
it.。
And envy is everywhere.。
It's funny, last time I preached here, I talked about money, sex, and power.。
And today I'm talking about envy.。
So I'm coming out with all the really positive, feel-good topics here.。
But it's everywhere.。
Money, sex, and power are a problem because of envy.。
Because we're looking at other people going, "Oh, look how much money they have.。
Look.。
Oh, they have this kind of house.。
Oh, they have this kind of wife.。
This have this kind of life.。
They have this kind of yacht."。
And then you wonder, that's where people are chasing after money.。
Same with sex.。
Same with power.。
Envy is that deadly.。
Envy is that dangerous.。
And I wanted to focus basically on this topic today.。
This topic of envy.。
And it's an interesting one, but there's really two questions I want to ask, and they're these.。
How does it start and how can it end?。
How does it start and how can it end?。
We clearly see, we clearly know that envy is a problem, but how does it start and how。
can it end?。
And I'm going to focus on these by looking at the story of Rachel and Leah.。
Let's start with how does it start.。
I think it starts basically with four things.。
And there are four components that basically drive this vicious cycle of envy.。
They are comparison, discontentment, resentment, and manipulation.。
Let's start with the first one, comparison.。
Did you know that kids, when they turn seven years old, is when they first start to notice。
other people are different to them.。
Up until then, their ignorance is bliss.。
They're getting on with their own thing.。
But at seven years old, researchers believe that's when they start looking at other kids。
in school and going, why does he have a phone?。
Why do I not?。
Oh.。
I got this question asked to me.。
Daddy, why doesn't our car door open like this?。
I was like, why would you want that?。
Our mode of transportation opens like this.。
It's pretty much the same.。
But it's around that age they start to compare.。
They start to look and go, hmm, what's going on here?。
And that's exactly what happened with Rachel and Leah.。
You see, Leah no doubt would have been compared to Rachel.。
Rachel was comparing herself to Leah.。
And you see, this is where the problem begins.。
This is where the seed of envy is planted.。
When you look across at someone else and go, hmm, how do I compare to them?。
Do you do that?。
Did you do that with your siblings growing up?。
Did you do that with your school friends?。
Did you go to that kind of school where everyone's -- why do parents sign up to -- sign their。
kids up, their babies up to kindergarten before they're even born?。
It starts with comparison.。
Looking at, oh, that's what they do.。
That's what they do.。
Oh, that's -- that's how it begins.。
Comparison is the beginning of envy.。
And you can see here that Leah is looking at Rachel going, why does she get all the。
attention?。
Why is she the one who's loved?。
Why am I the one who's hated?。
And then you've got Rachel, who's beautiful, who has a husband, but she doesn't have kids.。
And back in those days, to have kids for a woman is the most important thing.。
And so she is at the point where she's like, I need kids or otherwise there's no point。
in living anymore.。
Comparison is the beginning of envy.。
And I want to tell you another story that really highlights this.。
It's in 1 Samuel 18.。
And we've all heard about David and Goliath.。
David, this little boy, the shepherd, defeats this huge giant.。
And then Saul, of course, welcomes him in.。
And then it gets to the point where they conquer other nations.。
And as they're heading home, something fascinating happens.。
And I want to take you to turn, if you can, to 1 Samuel 18.。
So they've just defeated Goliath, they've defeated some other people, and they're on。
their way home.。
And as they are heading home, they're heading home back to their city.。
They are met with singing and dancing, tambourines, songs of joy with musicians.。
And the women sang to one another.。
And what did they sing?。
They sang this interesting line.。
And it was this.。
"Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands."。
Actually, it was just an innocent song.。
It was poetry.。
Because, of course, David didn't kill ten thousands compared to Saul's thousands.。
It was just a way of singing.。
But Saul then got very angry.。
And this saying displeased him.。
He said, "They have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to me only thousands.。
What more can he have but the kingdom?"。
And here's the verse.。
1 Samuel 18, verse 9.。
"And Saul eyed David from that day on."。
Envy began through comparison.。
And I want us to reflect on this.。
Do we compare ourselves to other people?。
Do we measure ourselves, our worth, to what other people are doing?。
Comparison is the beginning.。
Other comparison, of course, then leads to discontentment.。
Because why?。
You're looking at other people and looking at what they do.。
And social media is the best.。
I'm sure I've said this before as well.。
You scroll through social media.。
Actually, I've recently felt this.。
So I took time off social media for Lent.。
And then when I went back, I realized I was starting to feel FOMO.。
What's FOMO?。
Do you know?。
Fear of missing out.。
I was lucky.。
I was like, "Oh, they're going here.。
Oh, they're hanging out.。
Oh, they're at this beach.。
Oh, they're sipping cocktails at this beach."。
Inadvertently, I'm comparing my life to theirs.。
Because whilst I'm looking at their Instagram story of being on a beach, what am I doing?。
I'm on the toilet.。
I'm comparing my life to theirs.。
And it's not a great place where I am, but it looks like it's a very nice place where。
they are.。
And then if you're not careful, that comparison leads to discontent.。
It leads to you not being happy about anything that you have.。
You see, the problem with envy is this.。
It's a thief.。
It robs you of joy.。
I want to fast forward in Genesis now where Rachel finally has kids.。
She has -- okay.。
Leah is 4-0 up.。
You're keeping track.。
Rachel gets very upset.。
How's it go at Jacob?。
Jacob's like, "Nothing I can do."。
Rachel then takes matters into her own hands and says, "Okay.。
In that case, I'll give you my servant.。
And if she has babies, they can be on behalf of me."。
So then she actually has two through the servant.。
Leah sees it and goes, "Oh, then I'll do it as well."。
So then she gives her Jacob his -- like, "Jacob, what is he doing?"。
Anyway, so -- and then gets the servant and then has another two.。
Finally, finally, finally, at the very end, Rachel does have a kid.。
What's his name?。
Joseph.。
Number 11.。
And you think at that moment, that will be it.。
Oh, finally, the Lord has answered my prayer.。
I am satisfied.。
I am happy.。
I have what I need.。
She doesn't.。
What does she say at the end of chapter 30?。
"Then God remembered Rachel and God listened to her and opened her womb.。
She conceived and bore a son and said, 'God has taken away my reproach.'。
And she called his name Joseph, saying, 'May the Lord add to me another son.'"。
So even though she finally got her son, what was the first thing on her mind?。
"I need another one."。
Discontent.。
Envy leads to discontent.。
It is a thief.。
It steals joy from you.。
It robs you of your relationships.。
It robs you of your healthy marriages because you're looking -- you're always looking at someone else.。
You're always trying to find something that's better than what you have.。
The grass, apparently, is always greener.。
And what does that mean?。
That means you're never happy with your piece of grass.。
And Scripture tells us this.。
Paul talks to Timothy and says, "Godliness starts with being content."。
Starts with being happy with what God's given you.。
Because what are you doing when you are discontent?。
You're saying, "God, you don't really love me.。
You don't know what I need.。
And I don't really trust you because I'm not happy with what you've given me."。
That's what discontent is, right?。
And that is directly opposed to godliness.。
So comparison and then discontent.。
And you see, it all ends up being chasing after the wind.。
Rachel had the love of a husband but wanted kids.。
Leah didn't have the love of a husband but really wanted it.。
You can see the first few kids she has.。
Reuben, Simeon and Levi.。
What does she call them when she has them?。
This is the end of 29.。
When she has Reuben, she says, "Ah, because the Lord has looked upon my affliction,。
for now my husband will love me."。
"For now my husband will love me.。
Now that I've got him his first son, now my husband will love me."。
So even though she got this gift, she's still saying, "Oh, now I have this baby.。
Maybe now Jacob will give me some attention.。
Maybe now he'll love me like he loves Rachel."。
That's what she felt when she had her first baby.。
And then she had her second one.。
And she says, "Oh, the Lord has heard that I'm hated.。
And now this time my husband will be attached to me."。
So time and time again, first baby, Reuben.。
Second baby, Simeon.。
Third baby, Levi.。
Every time she's saying, "Thank God for this.。
He's listened to me.。
Now Jacob will love me."。
Can you feel that hurt in Leah?。
That that's what she felt?。
That having the kid was all still about chasing after her husband's affections?。
You see, the problem is, Rachel and Leah really both had the same problem,。
which is that they were both placing all their hopes on this one man.。
They were both trying to get satisfaction and validation from this one person.。
But the problem is, you always are left disappointed.。
You always are left disappointed.。
What you thought was going to be good for you, it doesn't deliver.。
Tim Keller has this slightly honest and brash way of maybe putting this.。
And of course, we appreciate who Rachel and Leah are.。
And he says, "What you think you've got, what you think you have,。
you go to bed with Rachel, you wake up the next morning and it's Leah.。
What you thought would be very good for you, those friends, that job,。
that car, that yacht, you think you're going to bed with Rachel at night。
because you're fully satisfied now, but you wake up and it's Leah.。
You wake up and you realise it wasn't what you thought it would be."。
Discontent is all a chasing after the wind.。
Anything of this world, if you are putting your hope in it,。
if you are trying to earn your security in it, it will disappoint you.。
That's what envy does.。
That's why God thought it was so serious that he would make it a commandment.。
Do not covet.。
What is he saying?。
He's saying, "Don't do it."。
Not because it's not fun, not because it's not a pleasurable experience.。
He's saying, "If you do it, it will rob you of joy.。
It will rob you of peace."。
Charles Swindoll was the one who said, "Envy is the great enemy of peace."。
Do you have peace?。
Do you have inner peace?。
And if you don't, at least it's worth the question.。
Is there envy in your heart?。
Are you comparing your situation to those around you?。
And this city is just incredible for that.。
Do you have peace?。
If you don't, is it because there is envy in your heart?。
Are you comparing?。
Are you discontent?。
See, what happens with this is you're discontent.。
But then it leads to resentment.。
Now, resentment is an even more negative one, you could say.。
In the middle of chapter 30, in verse 14, it says this,。
"In the days of wheat harvest, Reuben went and found mandrakes in the field。
and brought them to his mother, Leah.。
Then Rachel said, 'Hey, please give me some of your son's mandrakes.'。
Reuben brought them in, this plant, 'Can your son give me some of them?'"。
And what does Leah say?。
She says, "You've taken my husband and now you want my mandrakes?"。
A little bit of an overreaction, but you can see the resentment.。
You can see the resentment that would have no doubt built up。
all the way from the moment Rachel was born.。
And then, of course, the resentment that Rachel has。
when she asks for children, otherwise she would die.。
You see, resentment is, again, that same thing.。
If I can't have it, neither can they.。
Researchers say that 80% of criticisms find their root in envy.。
So when people are criticizing other people,。
a lot of it is really rooted in envy.。
There's a National Health Institute of Japan, they did a study on envy,。
and they found this, they found it was really interesting.。
They studied the brain, and they studied the pain nodules。
that existed in the brain, and they found that。
when someone is experiencing envy, the same pain nodules。
as when you are suffering from physical pain are activated.。
Isn't that crazy?。
But when you're facing a physical pain, because someone's maybe punching you。
or whatever it is, or you get a paper cut,。
the same part of your brain is activated as when you're feeling envy.。
So you associate it with pain.。
What's even more interesting is this.。
When the participants were shown an image of someone that they envied。
going through suffering, which part of the brain was activated?。
The pleasure centers.。
When they saw someone that they envied going through suffering,。
their pleasure centers woke up.。
They felt pleasure from it.。
Isn't that terrifying?。
Isn't that why we read, I mean I personally don't,。
why we read news websites like TNZ and any gossip places?。
When we're looking at other people that we might actually envy,。
and we see them screw up and mess up their lives,。
it brings us pleasure.。
That's envy, brothers and sisters.。
That's us comparing.。
That's us not being content.。
That's us being resentful.。
Envy is that dangerous.。
And it doesn't stop there, because you see the problem is this.。
A problem that starts with envy never ends with just envy.。
It doesn't just stay there.。
Now it's dangerous because it's hidden.。
When you're envying someone, it's all hidden.。
You don't see it appear physically.。
But it's dangerous.。
It's hidden in that sense.。
But then what starts with envy never ends with envy,。
because it often leads to something else.。
Look at the very first human that was ever born, Cain.。
What led him to be a murderer?。
Envy.。
You see, the problem is this.。
We start with comparison, then we move to discontentment,。
then we move to resentment, and finally we move to manipulation.。
Now I was trying to figure out what word to use here,。
because it's kind of manipulation.。
I kind of wanted to use the word action,。
but it's more than that.。
So I ended up with manipulation, because it's this.。
When you envy, when you compare yourself,。
when you don't trust God,。
when you're not happy with what God's given you,。
what do you do?。
You take matters into your own hands.。
You manipulate the situation.。
So what happened with Rachel?。
She saw that she couldn't have kids.。
So then she gives her servant to have kids.。
And then when the servant had kids,。
she still wasn't happy enough.。
And that's where the story about the mandrakes comes back in.。
She sees Reuben, Leah's son,。
come back with these mandrakes, which is a plant.。
But what kind of plant?。
It's a fertility plant.。
They believe that if you ate these mandrakes,。
you would have kids.。
So she's taking matters into her own hands.。
It's an interesting fact, right?。
Or another interesting fact,。
Leah and Rachel actually means cow and ewe,。
like baby sheep, E-W-E.。
What kind of man would call their daughter cow?。
Anyway, apparently herdsmen families would do that.。
They would name their children after whatever, anyway.。
These mandrakes were basically a fertility plant.。
So Rachel's saying, "If only I could eat this plant.。
If only I could have this, this could give me babies."。
And yet what happens?。
Leah's like, "What?。
You took my husband and now you want my plants?"。
And then Rachel says, "Okay, fine.。
Give me your plants and I'll give you Jacob for one night."。
That was a deal.。
And then they're like, "Deal."。
And so Jacob comes home from work。
and Rachel go, "Oh, you're with her tonight."。
And he's like, "Oh, okay, I'm with her."。
Doesn't paint a good picture for men, does it really?。
And what happens?。
Even though she got the mandrakes,。
who ended up having the next two boys?。
Leah.。
So she tried to manipulate the situation,。
tried to use her servants, tried to get the mandrakes,。
yet still Leah was the one that had the babies.。
Manipulation, us taking matters into our own hands.。
Can you think of a time recently。
where maybe you took matters into your own hands?。
Whether it's in your personal life, family,。
romantic life, professional life,。
where you decided, "You know what?。
I know God promised me.。
I know there's that song, 'He's Sovereign'。
and his plans to make us prosper are still there,。
but I'm just gonna do it myself."。
Have you had that?。
'Cause if you have, retrace your steps.。
Was there resentment?。
Was there discontent?。
Was there comparison?。
Was there envy?。
Because envy, brothers and sisters, is dangerous.。
As a really interesting quote,。
"Envy is the daughter of pride,。
the author of murder and revenge,。
the begetter of secret sedition,。
the perpetual tormentor of virtue."。
What starts with envy rarely ends with envy.。
And it's something that we need to address.。
It's something that we really need to get to the root of.。
It's important because otherwise,。
it's this never-ending cycle.。
Whatever you're doing right now,。
you're just chasing these things.。
It's just constantly chasing after something。
that will never satisfy you.。
You'll always be asking for more.。
Another interesting quote is this,。
"A man will do many things to get loved,。
but he will do all things to get himself envied."。
See, the problem about social media is,。
and I love social media,。
there's great things that happen with it,。
so I'm not here just to slander social media,。
is yes, it contributes to this perpetual cycle of envy.。
'Cause if we think back to ourselves,。
I mean, we're looking at other people's nice stuff,。
but we're also posting our own nice stuff, right?。
We're also trying to put our best foot forward.。
What are we trying to do?。
Whilst we're envying others,。
we're also wanting others to envy us.。
And that's how this cycle is fed,。
because we're always wanting to be validated.。
We're always wanting to be looked up to.。
We're always wanting to be liked.。
We're always wanting to be envied.。
And that's a matter of the heart that is deep.。
That's a matter that we need to search ourselves and ask,。
God, is there any offensive way in me?。
Is there any offensive way in me?。
Do I envy in any way?。
'Cause I see how dangerous it could be.。
Now, you may not be so envious to the point。
where you're gonna be going out to kill someone,。
but you can see the steps that it takes you down.。
It's important for us to ask the question then,。
how can it end?。
We know how it starts, but how can it end?。
And of course, it's not really a cop-out,。
but I guess it kind of is.。
The answer, of course,。
is that we can't put an end to it ourselves.。
It all comes back to God.。
Envy may start with us, but it has to end with God.。
It has to.。
It has to have us putting our eyes back onto him.。
And we see that in the story of Rachel and Leah,。
because to battle the comparison, the discontentment,。
the resentment and the manipulation,。
we see that through this journey, this very flawed journey,。
this is God using imperfect people。
to carry out his perfect plan.。
Did you know that this is how the 12 tribes of Israel。
was formed?。
Because these two ladies, these two sisters,。
were having a baby battle.。
And yet these end up being the 12 tribes of Israel.。
And then we see here is that。
even though all this stuff was happening,。
even though it was plagued with envy,。
God is always still there.。
God is always still present, because 29 verse 31,。
"When the Lord saw that Leah was hated."。
In order to fight the comparison,。
we need to remember that God sees.。
God sees you.。
You might feel like Leah, you might feel overlooked.。
You might feel neglected.。
You might feel that everyone is constantly。
looking somewhere else,。
but here's what scripture is telling you.。
Here's what this story is telling you, that God sees you.。
Leah, no doubt, had to battle this。
from the beginning of her life.。
Maybe you have too.。
But I feel it's important for me to tell you。
that God sees you.。
He knows you and he loves you.。
So there is no need for you to compare.。
He's not looking at you and so-and-so.。
He's not comparing you to so-and-so.。
He sees you for who you are.。
And you were fearfully and wonderfully made by him.。
So there is no need to compare.。
Stay in your lane.。
Stay and be who God has called you to be。
because his eyes are on you.。
He sees you.。
Fast forward to the end, towards the end of chapter 30,。
well, verse 22, you see three things that God finally does.。
Chapter 30, verse 22 says this,。
"Then God remembered Rachel and God listened to her。
"and he opened her womb and he gives her a baby."。
So the second one is this,。
not only does he see, he remembers.。
Now, remember isn't like, oh, God forgot about you.。
Oh, oh, oh, sorry, Leah, you're there.。
Oh, oh, Rachel, I didn't realise you existed.。
No, it's not that.。
What the Bible means when it says remember,。
it means he cares for you.。
He shows concern for you.。
He knows what's best for you。
and he is keen to provide what you need.。
So you don't need to have any discontentment in your heart.。
You don't need to feel as though you don't have enough。
because you do, that song we sang,。
all we have is Christ and that is really enough.。
God remembers you.。
God knows your plight.。
He knows the struggles.。
He knows all these things,。
but he sees you and he remembers you.。
So don't compare and be content.。
In who you are and what he's given you。
and who he's made you to be.。
And not only does he see you and remember you,。
he listens to you.。
He answers prayer.。
He desires connection.。
He wants you to talk to him about these things.。
He wants you to share your life with him。
because he sees you, he remembers you,。
and he listens to you.。
And he is never late and he is never insufficient.。
His grace is always sufficient for you.。
Peter says, "Those who think the Lord is being slow,。
"he's not, because to him, a thousand years is like a day。
"and a day is like a thousand years."。
But he knows what's best for you.。
So stay the course, keep in step with him.。
Don't rush ahead, but just trust him.。
Trust him that his timing is right,。
that he is always on time.。
And finally, he opens up a room.。
He is the one who gives,。
regardless of what Rachel and Leah do.。
He is the one that gives the kids.。
Isn't it interesting that God promises Abraham。
that he will be a father of nations.。
Yet even in that family, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,。
there is the issue of fertility.。
Isn't that ironic, almost?。
But it's almost like God saying,。
"I've given you this promise,。
"but you need to stay close to me.。
"No mandrakes, no eating of vegetables will get you babies.。
"Trust me, I see you, I remember you, I'm listening to you,。
"and I will give as I see fit."。
It is the Lord who always gives.。
And of course, we're talking about babysitting,。
but we can apply that to any situation that we have.。
Whatever you feel as though you're waiting for,。
whatever you feel as though you need to manipulate for,。
that you need to take matters into your own hands for.。
God's saying, "Let go.。
"If you truly knew who I was,。
"you would know that I know what you need."。
Matthew 7 talks about that, right?。
"Ask and you shall receive."。
Why?。
Because if an earthly father knows what good gifts to give,。
God, of course, knows what you need.。
So trust him.。
So trust him.。
But you may ask, "Hmm, sounds good,。
"but why should I trust him?。
"Is he really gonna give me what I need?"。
You see, I think God is patient,。
and he teaches us in his own time.。
And I think Leah was starting to get the idea.。
I told you about the three kids。
that she had at the beginning.。
And each time she named them and then said,。
"Maybe my husband will love me now."。
By the fourth kid, something interesting happens.。
By the fourth kid, she names him Judah.。
But she says, "This time, I will praise the Lord."。
Can you see the change in her heart?。
The first three times, she's like,。
"Oh, if I have this kid, if I do what I can,。
"my husband will love me,。
"I'll get all the satisfaction I need。
"and all the safety I need."。
But no, she didn't get it until the fourth kid.。
And the fourth kid, Judah, she says,。
"This time, I think I get it.。
"This time, I will praise the Lord."。
And what happens after that?。
The 12 tribes of Israel, of course,。
ends up carrying on, carrying on。
to being the person of Jesus.。
Jesus Christ himself, the Messiah,。
comes from this tribe, this mess.。
And who does he come from?。
Judah.。
He doesn't come through Rachel, the most loved wife,。
the most beautiful wife.。
Doesn't come through Joseph,。
who he ends up using for mighty things.。
He comes through Leah and Judah.。
Isn't that fascinating?。
Do you realise that we all sit here,。
saved because of what Jesus did,。
because Jacob slept with Leah?。
Not Rachel, Leah.。
Can you see how God used imperfect people,。
filled with envy, comparison, discontentment,。
resentment and manipulation,。
but ended up bringing about a saviour。
through their mistakes.。
That through the line of Judah,。
son of Leah, the unloved and hated and ugly Leah,。
Jesus himself, deeply despised, rejected,。
yet ends up saving mankind.。
Can we just ponder on that for a moment,。
that God would use such a plan to rescue us?。
I wanna finish with this one final story.。
I talked about David and Goliath,。
and I feel as though this gives us a real answer to envy.。
A practical one that we can kind of hold on to.。
See, whilst he beats Goliath, he comes home,。
the ladies sing this song that basically gets into trouble,。
and then Saul ends up chasing him and trying to kill him.。
In the middle of that, or just before that,。
in the beginning of chapter 18,。
it talks about David and Jonathan's friend.。
Who's Jonathan?。
Jonathan is Saul's son.。
And what happens is David beats Goliath,。
is introduced to the royal family,。
and ends up striking up a friendship with Jonathan.。
But then Jonathan's dad, Saul, starts to get envious,。
starts to chase down his son's friend, David.。
But scripture says something fascinating here,。
which he says, "But then Jonathan made a covenant。
"with David because he loved him as his own soul."。
And I think this is the remedy to envy, love.。
Because what happens here?。
Can you imagine Saul is envying David?。
It would make a lot of sense。
if Jonathan was envying David as well, right?。
'Cause this is the guy, Jonathan's supposed to be king soon。
whenever his dad kicks the bucket.。
But now you've got this guy, this David,。
who could take your throne.。
Jonathan should, by worldly standards, be envying David,。
completely trying to trample over him, destroying him.。
Yet scripture tells us here, he loves him as his own soul.。
And then here's the next verse.。
"And Jonathan strips himself of the robe that was on him。
"and gave it to David."。
So he sees this young man brought in,。
defeating this Philistine for his father.。
He should be nervous.。
He should be like, "Oh, who is this guy?。
"Is he gonna take my place as king?"。
But instead, when he sees David,。
when he builds up this friendship with him,。
he takes off his robe and covers David,。
showing no sign of comparison,。
no sign of discontent or resentment,。
no manipulation in any way.。
He takes off his own robe and gives it to David.。
Isn't that the solution to envy, to love?。
And here's the key, and this is where I'll finish.。
What Jonathan did for David that day,。
seemingly small thing of taking off his robe。
and putting it onto David,。
is the same thing that Jesus Christ did for you.。
Jesus Christ, the Prince of Heaven,。
saw you ugly and ashamed,。
and yet he took off his robes and put them over you.。
If you let that truth seep into your heart,。
how could you possibly envy?。
If you knew who Jesus was and how much he loved you。
and what he gave for you,。
and that all you need can be found in him,。
you have his robe on right now, brothers and sisters.。
How could you possibly envy?。
You have all you need in Jesus.。
And that's my final prayer for all of us,。
because I don't even need a show of hands.。
We all struggle with envy.。
We all struggle with comparison,。
being discontent, being resentful,。
taking matters into our own hands.。
But we all would do well to remember。
what Jonathan did for David,。
what Jesus did for us.。
So whenever we're faced with the temptation again of envy,。
we can say, "No, this time I will praise the Lord.。
This time I will look to God who is sovereign,。
who is enough."。
Let's pray.。
(pastor and congregation murmuring)。
Jesus, we bow our heads before you.。
I guess if we put it like that,。
it is really quite ridiculous that we still envy,。
that we still get caught up in the patterns of this world.。
We find it so easy to compare ourselves to other people,。
to be unhappy with what we have.。
And yet we remember today what you did for us.。
And we hold on, we cling on to the fact。
that Jesus, that is enough.。
Forgive us, Lord, for forgetting about your act of love.。
And give us the strength to comprehend。
the depth, the breadth, the length,。
and the height of your love for us.。
Because when we get it, when we know it,。
there is no need to compare.。
We remember that we all fall short,。
but are all justified freely by you.。
So I wanna just spend a few moments now,。
as I've been doing a lot of talking,。
but I pray that the Spirit has allowed you to hear this,。
and that it would seep into your hearts.。
And I pray that the Spirit will highlight to you。
if there are any seeds of envy,。
and give you the strength to let go.。
Give you the strength to remember that He sees you,。
right where you are.。
He remembers, He shows concern for you.。
He is listening to the cries of your heart.。
And He will give, and He will come through.。
Trust Him, because He is enough.。
(gentle music)。
