Christmas, Christmas is on its way, finally, it's getting a little bit colder.。
You know, actually coming back to KFC and walking through the Far East Finance Centre。
and seeing all the decorations, it really reminded me of four years ago, four years。
ago when we first came, my family and I, we first landed in Hong Kong just under four。
years ago, right, and we landed on I think on the 22nd of December or something like。
that and then the 23rd we came, we were just completely still jet-lagged, completely shocked,。
and we came to the pantry where you all were having your Christmas party.。
So just stepping in and seeing all of it was just wow, how things have changed, how things。
have changed, but really, really glad to be back here, I've missed you all, I've been。
glad to be able to see all of you here today and how we've all grown in different ways.。
Quite a lot has happened in these last few years, just tiny bits have happened and now。
we have Agnes who was the first person from church, actually the first person we met or。
saw in Hong Kong, she was at the airport waiting for us, didn't really know her well and now。
she's holding her grandchild from Alex and Joe, what a blessing it is.。
You guys have been going through the Book of 1 Corinthians, what a crazy book, it's。
one of my favourites growing up, admittedly I haven't spent as much time in it recently。
but I remember some key passages, for me I had 1 Corinthians 9.27 etched onto my basketball。
shoes when I was playing at university, I disciplined my body, training it to do what。
it should, lest after preaching to others I myself might be disqualified.。
As you guys go through the whole of 1 Corinthians, this majestic book, I want to ask you a question,。
what would you say this letter has been about?。
As you've gone through all these different chapters, 15 chapters, what would you say。
the Book of 1 Corinthians is about?。
Now let me tell you what I think it's about, I think it's about how your faith impacts。
every element of your life, every single element, whether it's marriage, love, sex, how you。
deal with lawsuits, how you eat, how you worship, how you deal with your spiritual gifts, how。
you commit together as a church, 1 Corinthians tells you everything about how to live as。
a Christian.。
Some people I meet are like, "No James, no actually my faith side is this side, it's。
on my Saturday night or on my Sunday morning and then maybe I'll have one evening in the。
week where it's my Christian-y stuff but the work stuff, they don't really mix.。
I am a Christian, I do believe but then actually it's only this part of my life that it exists。
in."。
But the problem is, what Paul says in 1 Corinthians is, "No, that can't be the case.。
God has to infiltrate, has to impact every part of your life.。
There is no room that he cannot enter."。
And that's what 1 Corinthians is about and he finishes with this final chapter, the most。
majestic of all, the peak, the crown, the climax of 1 Corinthians and it's 1 Corinthians。
15 and it's about the topic of resurrection.。
In fact, this chapter here is described as the chapter on resurrection full stop in the。
whole Bible.。
If you want to find out anything about the resurrection, it's 1 Corinthians 15.。
So I invite you today to turn to 1 Corinthians 15.。
Maybe you have a paper Bible, if you have a phone as well, that's okay.。
I won't judge you but I will recommend that you get a paper Bible.。
These are great.。
They are constantly on do not disturb focus mode.。
There are no notifications coming at you and you can scribble on them and easily look up。
passages as well.。
Anyway, but 1 Corinthians 15 and I've cheekily not put them up on the screen so I would love。
for you to be able to follow along, scribble down notes, whatever you want, even on your。
apps, those are very good too.。
But follow along as we look at what it means, what the resurrection means.。
Verse 1, it starts off as this.。
He says, "Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you。
received and which you stand and by which you are being saved."。
He says, "I want to remind you something.。
You seem to have forgotten.。
You seem to have lost your way a little bit so I must remind you, I must rewind your mind。
back to what I had taught you and I want to tell you something that's very, very important。
because you've strayed away from it and it's about the resurrection."。
I want to give you a little bit of context here.。
Now, of course, you guys have been in this series for quite a long time so no doubt you'll。
know a little bit about the Church of Corinth.。
Paul's writing to this Church of Corinth, which he planted and he spent a lot of time。
there, and Corinth itself is a cosmopolitan city.。
People from all over the world would go into and descend into this city and it was filled。
with intellectuals, it was filled with businessmen, it was filled with very high-functioning,。
highly successful people, much like Hong Kong.。
Just down the road from Corinth, about 50 miles down, was the place called Athens.。
Athens was this cultural centre, capital.。
Anyone who was anybody would go through Athens and Corinth.。
One of the big things about Athens and Corinth was this idea of Greek philosophy.。
Philosophers would go there.。
In London, there's this place called Speaker's Corner.。
Has anyone been to Speaker's Corner?。
Where very intellectual people will stand and debate and argue and spend a lot of time。
just talking and spitting at each other.。
Now, this was in some ways similar.。
Athens had that.。
It was that kind of vibe.。
And of course, it was so close to Corinth.。
So these two cities would constantly mix people.。
And the problem here is this.。
The believers in Corinth started to have some of the societal truths from the city of Corinth。
seep into their church, seep into the way they did church, seep into the way they were。
Christians.。
And they would say, "Oh, my God, that's ridiculous.。
The Bible should not be compromised in any way."。
But here's the thing.。
The churches that are based in cities so often, and we included, are at risk of being compromised。
by societal truths.。
How would you describe Hong Kong?。
Hong Kong is maybe a money-making city.。
It's a consumeristic city.。
It's a very corporate city.。
And you see how we have the risk of it.。
And I pray that our church does not have this.。
It has the risk of having those values seep into church life.。
This is exactly what happened in Corinth.。
The Greek philosophers, the way they thought, the way they argued, the way they debated,。
started seeping into the church of Corinth.。
And what was the one thing that they were arguing about?。
There cannot be, there is not a resurrection.。
They did not believe it.。
And so within the church, people were starting to think, "Oh, maybe there wasn't a resurrection.。
Maybe Jesus does all these things, and he was a great prophet, and he was a good guy.。
But maybe he didn't resurrect."。
Some of the people were using it to their advantage.。
Do you know how?。
They were saying, "Oh, the resurrection has already happened spiritually.。
We, our souls, have already resurrected and gone to heaven.。
Do you know what that means?。
What we do with our flesh physically here on earth doesn't matter.。
We can do whatever we want because we've already ascended spiritually into heaven.。
We can do whatever we want here and satisfy all the desires of our heart here."。
It was this over-realised eschatology saying, "Hey, we don't have to care about our bodies。
because our souls are done.。
It's time to play."。
So Paul's writing to these people, he's saying, "I want to remind you, I want to remind you。
about the resurrection.。
I want to ask you, how often do you think about the resurrection?"。
We sang some beautiful songs today, well chosen by Florence, about the resurrection.。
But sometimes we take that word for granted, "Oh yeah, Jesus died and rose again."。
Can we just pause for a second?。
What actually happened?。
That Jesus, this man, this fully human man died, but then he came back to life.。
So today I want to focus on that.。
I want to focus on what the resurrection really means as a truth.。
And there's really three kinds of aspects that we can look at this, and they're coming。
up on the slides right now.。
The three kinds of truths that the resurrection is, as we look into 1 Corinthians 15, is one,。
it's a historical truth.。
It's a historical truth.。
Number two, it's an essential truth.。
And number three, it's an applicable truth.。
Historical, essential and applicable truth.。
And I'll go through each one for us today.。
Verse three, chapter 15, verse three, it says this, "For I delivered to you as of first。
importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures。
that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures."。
And we'll stop there for a second.。
Of first importance, what I received.。
So I'm not making this up.。
I'm not making this up.。
I didn't create this.。
I didn't write this.。
I received it and now I'm passing it on to you.。
And it's of the most importance.。
There are other parts of the faith, but this is the most important.。
What is it?。
In three short sentences, he basically sums up the gospel, the kerygma, which is what?。
Number one, Jesus Christ was buried, oh sorry, died for our sins according to the Scriptures.。
Jesus Christ died.。
Not too shocking right now because everyone dies.。
We will all die.。
Jesus Christ died, but he didn't just die just for giggles.。
He died for our sins, number two.。
Sorry, still part of number one actually, 1B.。
He died for our sins and 1C is according to the Scriptures.。
So what he's saying here is number one, Jesus Christ died for our sins according to the。
Scriptures.。
He's saying Jesus died according to the Scriptures saying, "I'm not making this up.。
I'm not making this up."。
This was a prophecy from hundreds of years ago.。
What was he probably thinking of?。
Maybe Isaiah 53.。
Maybe some of you don't know Isaiah 53.。
Maybe you know the song that we've sang more recently, Man of Sorrows.。
He was pierced for our transgressions.。
The sinless man died as a ransom for many.。
He's probably thinking about that.。
That's number one.。
Number two, he said he was buried in a tomb.。
Just like a normal living human being, he died and then he was buried in a tomb.。
And you've heard about this tomb because it was a tomb that was bought by Josephus.。
So even historians who aren't Christians know that Jesus Christ, this man existed and that。
he died and was buried in a tomb.。
Number three, on the third day he rose again.。
Again, according to the Scriptures.。
That's what he's saying.。
He repeats it again saying, "This is a prophecy.。
This isn't something that I'm making up.。
This man died and he rose again."。
What prophecies was he thinking about?。
What Scriptures was he thinking about?。
Maybe Jonah.。
Maybe how Jonah wasn't allowed to stay in the belly of the fish for three days, but。
rose again after three days.。
Came out of the fish.。
Jesus Christ himself referenced Jonah.。
Jesus Christ himself said, "The Son of Man will die, but in three days will come back."。
He's saying, "We're not making this up."。
It's according to the Scriptures.。
There's been days of about 300 prophecies in the Old Testament pointing to Jesus, pointing。
to what he did.。
So it is historical truth.。
I want to pause here and I'm going to ask you a question.。
Why are you a Christian?。
Why are you Gordon, Florence, Cherry, Julie, why are you a Christian?。
Have a think about that for a second.。
Maybe someone's asked you that at work.。
Why are you a Christian?。
Maybe the most common answer is, "Well, I was born into a Christian family and so went。
to church from a young age, went to Sunday school, and then maybe kind of got more serious。
as I went to university."。
Or maybe, "I'm a Christian because actually I just want to be a good person.。
I want to be a good person, so I'm a Christian."。
Or maybe you're a Christian because you're like, "I really like, I think it's a really。
good philosophy to go by.。
It's a really good set of values.。
It's a good way of life.。
Christianity good."。
Christians are fairly nice, most of them.。
So I want to be a Christian.。
Let me tell you why you should be a Christian.。
Let me tell you why we should all be a Christian.。
Let me tell you the primary reason why we should be a Christian.。
Because someone died and rose again.。
Christianity, primarily, the reason why you believe in it is because you believe that。
someone died and rose again.。
Paul's saying here, "If that person didn't die, nothing else matters."。
That is the most important piece.。
You believe in Christianity because it's true, because it happened, because 2,000 years ago。
there was a man who came who was the Son of God, who died for the sins of many, was buried。
in a tomb, but then left the tomb and rose again on the third day.。
That's why you're a Christian.。
Have you thought about it like that?。
That you're a Christian, not because it's a nice way to live, you're a Christian because。
something happened that snapped time into half and changed the course of humanity completely。
because someone died and rose again and defied the laws of science.。
It's a historical truth.。
There's an empty tomb to prove it.。
But then you might say, "Well, actually, the empty tomb, maybe the soldiers that were guarding。
the tomb were bribed.。
Maybe they were just given a little bit of money, 'Hey, let us take this body and we。
can do a little conspiracy thing with it.'"。
But you see, the problem is this.。
Soldiers those days, if they were entrusted to guard a prison or guard a tomb, they had。
to guard it with their lives.。
If anything happened or if anything happened on their watch that was wrong, that was bad,。
what would happen?。
That soldier would have to be put to death, as well as their family.。
Suddenly, you think, "Well, that doesn't make sense then because why would they take in。
any money?"。
Because their whole family would die.。
It's not the soldiers.。
But then you think, "Oh, actually, maybe it's the Pharisees or the Romans."。
Because they had heard the whispers that these Jesus followers were starting to say, "Jesus。
is going to rise again.。
Jesus is going to rise again.。
You know what?。
The best way to guarantee that doesn't happen?。
Let's take the body away."。
Then they can't do anything with it.。
"We'll protect it.。
We'll guard it."。
You know, maybe that makes sense.。
But then it doesn't because at any moment then, as Christianity was growing and eventually。
outgrows the whole Roman Empire, at any moment, they could have brought the body back out。
and said, "Actually, guys, that Jesus isn't alive.。
Here's the body.。
We did take him away for safekeeping, but he's here now.。
So all of you can just pipe down."。
So it can't be the Pharisees and it can't really be the Romans.。
What about the followers of Jesus themselves?。
Could they even find, "Hey, maybe they're just grieving from wasting three years following。
this man and now he's gone.。
And now suddenly they've lost their jobs, they've lost their families, they've lost。
everything, and so they're like, 'You know what?。
I'm grieving and I'm in denial.。
Let's take the body and let's make up something.。
Let's just keep faith.'"。
Again, that's kind of like, "Oh, that kind of makes sense."。
Until you think for the next 40 years, those people were willing to die for this faith.。
Surely at one point, when someone was being tortured or beaten or persecuted or just about。
to die, surely they would have been like, "You know what?。
It was all a joke.。
It was just, we were just having a little fun."。
Like he's not resurrected.。
But that's not the case.。
He actually transformed something.。
There's this quote, and I want to read it to you.。
I think it's going to be on the slides.。
It's by this guy called Charles Colson.。
He was an attorney and he was a political advisor during the President Nixon era.。
And he said this about the Watergate scandal.。
Do we know what the Watergate scandal is?。
Maybe anyone who's under 30 may not know.。
It was a political scandal in the US, which back then was a big thing, but nowadays probably。
not so much.。
But anyway, this Charles Colson said this, "I know the resurrection is a fact and Watergate,。
the scandal, proved it to me."。
How?。
"Because 12 men testified they had seen Jesus raised from the dead.。
Then they proclaimed that truth for 40 years, never once denying it.。
Everyone was beaten, tortured, stoned, and put in prison.。
They would not have endured that if it weren't true.。
Watergate embroiled 12 of the most powerful men in the world, and they couldn't keep。
a lie for three weeks."。
You're telling me 12 apostles, fishermen, all kinds of people could keep a lie for 40。
years?。
Absolutely impossible.。
The resurrection is a historical truth.。
Furthermore, on top of the empty tomb, there were witnesses.。
And Paul talks about those witnesses, and he starts in verse 5, "And that he appeared。
to Cephas," which is Peter, "then to the 12.。
Then he appeared to more than 500 brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive,。
though some have fallen asleep.。
Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.。
Last of all, he appeared to me."。
Paul.。
He's saying, not only is there an empty tomb, not only are there witnesses, but these witnesses。
were completely transformed.。
He mentions Peter, saying Peter saw him.。
Do you remember what Peter was like when Jesus was around?。
Or maybe when Jesus was arrested?。
Do you remember what that Peter was like?。
He was like, "No, I don't know him.。
I don't know him.。
No, he must be mistaking me for someone else."。
He was obnoxious.。
He was impulsive.。
What was the Peter like in Acts?。
The one who Jesus built the church on.。
That was a completely different Peter.。
Something happened pre-Peter, pre-Jesus' death, and post-Jesus' death, Peter was completely。
transformed.。
Do you remember James?。
James as in Jesus' brother.。
Scripture actually says, "Jesus' family, his brothers, didn't believe that he was God."。
Of course, I don't blame them.。
Why would you?。
If my brother kept going around saying that I'm the Son of God, you actually wouldn't。
believe him.。
But then what happened?。
He saw his own brother die on a cross, and then in three days' time, he saw him again.。
That transforms James.。
And then he says, "And 500 people, some of which are still alive," because this was written。
about 20 years after Jesus.。
What's Paul saying here?。
There's 500 people who saw him.。
Find them.。
They're still around.。
Some of them have died, but some of them are still around.。
Ask them.。
If this was a lie, he wouldn't have said that.。
There were witnesses, and furthermore, these witnesses were completely transformed.。
Most of all, final one of all at this point, Paul himself.。
Who was Paul before he was Paul?。
Saul, the persecutor of the church, the one who stood and watched Stephen, a man, proclaim。
the gospel and get stoned to death.。
That's Saul.。
Now, from being the biggest persecutor of the church, becomes the most prolific church。
planter ever.。
Something happened.。
His explanation, his reason, is that he met Jesus.。
He met Jesus, the resurrected one.。
First of all, why you believe in Christianity is because of the resurrection, because this。
resurrection is a historical truth.。
It actually happens.。
Number two, it's an essential truth.。
It's an essential truth.。
Now, I just said that Christianity isn't about giving you a better way of life.。
It isn't about giving you an emotional crutch so you can feel better about yourself as you。
navigate the challenges of this world.。
It's not just about that.。
Now, those things are fruits of believing in Christ and getting that hope, but it's。
not the main thing.。
Just because you get a better life here, it doesn't address the biggest issue that we。
all have.。
And what are those issues?。
That is sin and death.。
We are all sinners.。
We are all needing of a saviour.。
I know this is a really somber Christmas message.。
Merry Christmas.。
You're a sinner and you need saving.。
And your sin will lead you to death.。
And Romans 6 says this, "And the wages of sin is death."。
Because we are sinners, because we've made mistakes, because we're not perfect, we don't。
have a chance getting into the perfect heaven.。
Because of what we've done, there is a price that must be paid.。
The death and resurrection of Jesus addresses the issue of sin and death.。
It's an essential truth.。
You can't get away from it.。
You cannot get away from it.。
Why?。
Because the moment Adam sinned, the moment Adam, well, the moment Adam did not have a。
brain of his own and just listened to what he was told to do and just took a bite of。
the apple, the moment he turned away from God and felt shame, he sinned, what happened。
was he put humanity under death's power.。
From that moment, he turned his back on God and the biggest problem with sin is that we。
are now separated from God.。
Think about God.。
God is the source of life, hope, joy, and love.。
Surely then, the worst thing that could possibly happen to any of us is being separated from。
those things and through sin, that's what happens.。
When we choose to turn ourselves away from God, that is sin and that is when we are separated。
from God.。
That's why Jesus had to die because that price had to be paid.。
That bill had to be settled and through the death, he atoned for our sins.。
I talked about this before and we sang about it.。
Atonement.。
Jesus' death brings us atonement and what is atonement?。
At-one-ment.。
It brings us back.。
From the moment we were separated, from the moment of Adam, atonement, Jesus dying, brings。
us back.。
So Jesus' death addresses the issue of sin and the resurrection addresses the issue of。
death.。
Up until then, death has had the final say.。
Right now, we all will die and we think that's the final say but in the resurrection, we。
find out that actually death doesn't have the final say because what does the resurrection。
tell you?。
Someone died, told us he would do that, then he came back to life.。
That means there's something beyond the grave.。
Someone died and rose again, which means there's something beyond the grave, which means our。
greatest fear that we're going to die and go into the abyss and be separated isn't true。
because there's something that happens after the grave and that someone wasn't just anyone.。
It was the sinless one who paid for our sins and then he rose again.。
What significance does that have?。
Because he said that he was going to die and rise again and then it actually happened,。
well, I'll tell you what this means.。
He can be trusted.。
If I told you, "Guys, I'm going to die tonight but don't worry.。
I'm going to come back in three days and next week I'll be back here and then you actually。
see me die and then next week you see me back," I think you're going to pay attention to me.。
Pay attention to what I'm going to say, at least more than right now because Jesus put。
his money where his mouth was.。
讲得出,做得到.。
This interesting quote from Tim Keller, I think it's also on the screen, I'll read it。
to you.。
"If Jesus rose from the dead, then you have to accept all that he said.。
If he didn't rise from the dead, then why worry about any of what he said?。
The issue on which everything hangs is not whether or not you like his teaching, but。
whether or not he rose from the dead."。
The issue on which everything hangs is not whether or not you like his teaching, but。
whether or not he rose from the dead.。
And Paul then says this, he said, "Look, if you're saying that there is no resurrection。
from the dead and Jesus didn't rise from the dead, I'll tell you what this means."。
In verse 14, he starts a list and we'll fly through it.。
He says, verse 14, "And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain。
and your faith is in vain.。
If Jesus didn't die and rise again, me standing here preaching is completely pointless.。
It doesn't mean a single thing.。
However good I am at speaking, however good I make you feel, however many tips about life。
to help you feel better, it does not matter.。
All of it is in vain.。
Your faith is also in vain."。
And carries on, "We are even found to be misrepresenting God because we testify about。
God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise, if it is true that the dead are not。
raised."。
If Jesus didn't rise from the dead, we're actually all false witnesses.。
We're all liars.。
We're all liars.。
"For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised and if Christ has not。
been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins."。
Because that means your sin hasn't been addressed.。
That means the wage hasn't been paid.。
The debt hasn't been paid.。
You are still in your sins and you are still heading to death and you are still heading。
to eternal separation.。
But someone said that he is the resurrection and the life and then showed us that he actually。
is.。
That changes everything.。
It changes everything.。
Paul's also not saying, hey, he's not just saying, remember, Christ Jesus died and rose。
again.。
That's not the only thing he's saying.。
What else is he saying?。
He's saying because Christ died and rose again, so will you.。
That brothers and sisters is the game changer.。
Because Christ died and rose again, so will you.。
Imagine if you truly believed and lived as though your death is not final.。
Every year for Reuben's birthday, we like to take him somewhere fun and one of the main。
things he loves is going laser questing.。
Anyone like laser questing here?。
A couple of us.。
I love laser quest.。
I'm a bit too much of a wimp to go paintballing because that actually hurts.。
The BB gunning really kind of hurts, especially if it clips the back of your ear as well.。
But laser quest is great.。
Why is laser quest great?。
And then someone shoots me, and then in five seconds, and I'm back again.。
Now if you take it further, there's laser quest and then more hardcore, there's paintballing。
and of course I'm nowhere near real battle and real war where you only get one chance。
and once you get that chance, you've got a gun.。
Imagine though if you lived in a way where you didn't fear death anymore.。
Just imagine what that is like.。
There's a song that we sang that alluded to this, that even though your outer self is。
wasting away, your inner self is being renewed day by day.。
That what you're going to receive is this eternal weight of glory that doesn't compare。
to anything that you're going to struggle with here.。
Nothing that can happen to you here is going to hurt you in eternity.。
Imagine just for a moment that you get to live life like that, without this fear of。
death.。
What does that do to you?。
Which leads me to my final point.。
The resurrection is a historical truth, it's an essential truth because it addresses sin。
and death and finally, it's an applicable truth.。
And this is my conclusion, because you might be saying here, "Okay, fine, James, you're。
telling me that this Jewish man existed 2,000 years ago, proclaimed that he is God, he died。
and he rose again.。
Great.。
And then he flew off into the clouds, into the heavens.。
What does that mean for me now?。
What does that do for me now?"。
And I want to say, have a think about this.。
Not only is it a historical truth and an essential truth for your eternal salvation, there's。
something that it can do for you right here and right now.。
If the issue that it addresses is sin and death, what it unlocks then is freedom and。
life.。
If the issue that the death and resurrection addresses is sin and death, that means the。
result, the application here is that you will have freedom and life and no more sin and。
death.。
And so I continue to ask you, imagine what it is like if you lived as though your body。
might be dying, but you'll always be alive.。
It's a song quote from Phil Wickham.。
Imagine if that was the case.。
Well, first of all, it will change the way you live.。
Finally, you will have purpose to live because you're like, "Well, this isn't all there is.。
I'm living here in this little bit, but I've got all this to look out for, to look forward。
to."。
I went on a retreat this week and I went to Toronto and we walked past Sayoun and you kept。
going up, kept going up, and then there's a cemetery.。
Has anyone been there?。
There's a cemetery and me and my friend, we were just stood behind the cemetery and we。
were seeing all these kind of these graves, but it was only a short part of it because。
after the graves would be a railing and then it was just ocean, sky and mountain.。
And I was like, "I think I'm stuck here right now between these graves."。
And in Hong Kong, they're extra tight.。
And it's extra busy and it's extra gloomy, but this is just a small part of it.。
We've not reached eternity shore where if we step through those, we see this vast expanse.。
This eternity awaits us that allows us to...。
Jesus said in John 10, 10, he said, "And I will give you life and life to the full."。
And he's not just talking about this life here because this is so small.。
Imagine that his vantage point, that this is so small.。
If you put your trust in me, you'll have something called eternal life, which will be all of。
this and you won't be trapped in this cemetery any longer.。
Imagine the freedom that that gives you.。
Imagine that how that helps you approach death.。
Who's had a death to a loved one in the family before?。
Of course, as you grow old, it's inevitable because every single person that you know。
will die.。
But imagine if you truly believed that Christ raised from the dead and you will too, and。
that the loved ones who he lifts inside will also rise from the dead too.。
That changes the way you grieve.。
That changes the way you deal with loss.。
Paul says in 1 Thessalonians, he says, "We don't grieve like those who have no hope."。
We grieve in a different way.。
We grieve that we don't get to spend these next few decades with our loved one.。
But we grieve with hope because someone died and rose again.。
And we believe that same power now lives in those who love and follow him.。
That changes how you approach funerals now.。
That changes how you live now.。
That is an applicable truth right now.。
You'll also be free from sin.。
Paul's talking to these people and rebuking them, saying, "You've lost sight of the resurrection。
and now you're just giving in to your own desires."。
The problem is this.。
If you follow that path and giving in to your own desires, where does it lead you?。
Of course, it leads you to death.。
But before that, actually, you find that maybe temporarily it's fun.。
Maybe the first few months it's fun.。
Maybe even the first few years it's fun.。
But look around.。
Look around at society.。
Look around at the people that we see, the rich and the famous, all those who get every。
desire satisfied.。
Do they look happy to you?。
Do they look fulfilled to you?。
Do they look like they're living life to the full to you?。
No.。
And so because of the resurrection, because of this eternal perspective you get, you now。
get to live life in a different way.。
You get to be free from the sins that corrupt you.。
Your sin has been defeated because the resurrection now has the final say.。
That is the game changer.。
That is the thing that stops you from worrying.。
Who's a worrier here?。
I'm a worrier.。
Always thinking about what could happen.。
Always thinking about missing out on something, missing a deadline, missing something and。
then suddenly the whole world is going to fall apart.。
The resurrection tells you nothing will fall apart because Christ Jesus broke himself and。
put himself back together and put us back together too.。
So you don't have to worry and Jesus says this in Matthew 6, he says don't worry.。
The sparrows, the lilies, I'm looking after them and I'll look after you.。
Why can you believe me?。
I'm going to show you because I'll subject myself to the most horrible torment and the。
offence and the crucifixion and I'll come back to life.。
Then you will trust me, then you will believe me that I am the resurrection and the life。
that you don't have to worry about a thing.。
The Barnard group recently did a study.。
Do you know what the most commonly highlighted Bible verse in the whole of the Bible is?。
John 3, 16, "For God so loved the world."。
No.。
Romans 8, 28, "And God will work for the good of those who love him."。
No.。
Philippians 4, 4-7, "Do not be anxious about anything."。
You probably have this as a fridge magnet.。
"Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with。
thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God and the peace of God which surpasses。
all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds."。
We love that verse.。
We love it.。
Why?。
Because we're worriers.。
And so it's telling us don't be anxious.。
Don't worry.。
There's a few words just before that fridge magnet verse that tells you the secret why。
you don't need to worry.。
Does anyone know what it is?。
The Lord is at hand.。
Or another version is the Lord is near.。
Do not be anxious about anything.。
That's the key.。
That's what the resurrection can do for you if you're a worrier.。
You can remind yourself, "Well, I'm not worshipping a dead God.。
I'm not worshipping a God who couldn't save himself.。
I'm worshipping a God who plucked himself from the grave and now stands next to me and。
the Lord is at hand.。
He is near to me.。
So I don't have to be anxious about anything because he's right here."。
Isn't that freeing?。
Isn't that amazing?。
And the very final verse of this chapter, well, towards the end of it, verse 58.。
Oh, actually, here's the very end.。
"Therefore."。
That is the biggest therefore ever.。
We see therefore all the time.。
And of course, Bible teachers will teach you when you see the word therefore, you must。
ask why is it therefore?。
What's it therefore?。
What's the context?。
That is the biggest therefore you will find because that's saying if someone died and。
rose again, therefore.。
This is how you live.。
Can we sense the weight of what that means?。
How the resurrection can apply into every aspect of your life.。
And this is how he sums up the whole book.。
"Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of。
the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labour is not in vain.。
Therefore, because someone rose from the dead, you can be steadfast.。
You don't need to worry.。
You don't need to be afraid anymore."。
Psalm 27, "The Lord is my light and my salvation.。
He is the stronghold of my life.。
Whom shall I fear?。
I don't have to be afraid because He's the stronghold of my life.。
He is my light and my salvation and He is here.。
And so I can abound in work for the Lord, which means I can grow in my work for the。
Lord, which means I don't have to work for earthly things, just earthly things anymore.。
I can work because there are eternal consequences to be gained, eternal rewards to be gained.。
So none of it is in vain because what we're doing here is this and what we're going to。
be experiencing is all of this.。
So be steadfast.。
Don't worry.。
Be immovable.。
Don't be afraid because someone died and rose again and is now standing next to you."。
All of this because of the resurrection.。
The resurrection that is historical truth.。
It actually happened.。
The resurrection because it is essential truth, because it addresses our sin and death and。
gives us life and freedom.。
The resurrection which is applicable truth.。
Right now, there is something in your life that you can apply this resurrection truth。
to.。
Literally everything can start with the resurrection.。
And you might be like, "James, okay, this is good, but you've got the seasons wrong.。
It's Christmas, not Easter."。
But you see, here's the thing.。
Christmas isn't really about a baby being born in a manger.。
That's not why we celebrate Christmas because I'm sure he wasn't the only baby being born。
in a manger.。
Christmas is not about a baby being born in a manger.。
The reason why we celebrate Christmas is because that baby didn't stay in the manger.。
The reason we celebrate Christmas and have all these carols is because that baby didn't。
stay in the manger and ended up growing up to be the sinless man and then ended up on。
the cross.。
But we celebrate Christmas not because that man stayed on the cross and ended up in a。
tomb, but because he didn't stay there either.。
We celebrate Christmas because this sinless man that started in a manger, ended up on。
a cross and then in a tomb, didn't stay there and then rose again.。
And there is now an empty tomb to prove it.。
That is why we celebrate Christmas.。
The fact that there is an empty tomb remains to this day.。
The fact that there is an empty tomb remains to this day and that fact changes everything.。
Do we get that?。
Let me say that one more time and not if you get this.。
The fact that there is an empty tomb remains unchanged and that fact changes everything.。
That is why we celebrate Christmas.。
That is why we rejoice because we no longer have to be afraid, we no longer have to worry,。
we are free from sin, we are free from death, death no longer has its sting all because。
someone died and then rose again.。
And now he is with us.。
This Christmas season, God is with us, Emmanuel.。
How can we respond today?。
We stretch out our hands and we say, Emmanuel, come into my life.。
O come, O come, Emmanuel.。
I am going to invite the worship band up now and as I pray, I invite us all, why don't。
we, just as Alex led us today earlier in lifting our hands up to worship, can we just open。
our hands now as we close our eyes and can we welcome this saviour in?。
Emmanuel, God with us.。
And as I pray for all of us, allow that truth of the resurrection to seep into your very。
heart, soul and mind.。
Jesus we talk and sing about your resurrection all the time, but forgive us that we take。
it for granted what it really means.。
Because now we know what the resurrection means, it means that you are living and here。
with us and we dare not forget that, we do not want to forget that.。
Emmanuel, you are God with us, so come.。
Come into our hearts, come into our minds and our souls.。
If there are any rooms that you don't feel as though you can come in, thank you for being。
patient and just gracious and just knocking on our door.。
If anyone here feels that there is a room that the saviour has not been in yet, if you。
feel as though there is something that you are holding back from this living Christ,。
this living God, then I want to tell you today, he died, he rose and now he is here and he。
is knocking on your door, asking for you to invite him in.。
And the only appropriate response is to say, "Come on in."。
Oh come, oh come, Emmanuel.。
(gentle music)。
