Thank you, Pastor John. I'm so glad to be here today and we get to continue on our series,。
The Living Hope. And Pastor James and Pastor Johnny were sharing with us the last two weeks.。
And if you have missed it, please go back to listen to it. It's a really great series.。
And so today I'm supposed to preach on Chapter 3, and it's really, really long. And so I'm。
I have to kind of juggle through. And the first part was about wife submitting to husband.。
So I plan to skip that this round, not because I want to, because it gets better at the end。
where it says that the husband needs to honor the wife. But because it's really on my heart。
and I just want to share the later part of this chapter from verse 8 until verse 18,。
where it's a way for us to see the characteristics of what it means to be a Christian. Actually,。
in fact, I'd like to ask you this question. You know, we've been asked, you know, many。
times and even ourselves, we question it, too. What does what does it look like to be。
a Christian? And so I'm going to ask you that question right now. What does a Christian。
look like to you? And I would love for you to type in some answers in the chat box. Oops.。
Trying to see my chat box. Actually, I can't see my chat box. Hold on. But keep typing.。
Oh, there it is. I see it. All right. It says being humble and happy. Good. Caring. Peace。
filled. Wow. These are great answers. Is that a beard and sandals? Oh, not really being。
like Christian. Like, OK, good. The light for Christ. Very good. And we we love these。
are such great answers. Feeling joyful. You know, we tell like our friends what what it。
means to be a Christian is to be a light for Christ. And then they will ask us more. What。
does that mean? Yeah, that's right. Hopeful. Yeah. These are such great descriptions. And。
so today we're going to look at it and see what Apostle Peter in First Peter, Chapter。
three, tells us. What does a Christian look like? And so we're going to start reading。
from verse eight. Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love, a。
tender heart and a humbled mind. Now, right here, straight in one verse, he gives us five。
attributes of what a Christian would look like. And it's kind of like the five facets。
of a diamond, too. And they're like hand in hand. Now, let's go through each one of these。
and we can use it as a limit test, you know, to see how much of these characters we have.。
Now the first one is unity of mind. And some other translation says it's like mindedness。
or unity in spirit to really indicate that his people, when they come together, we all。
have a common focus. And that is on the Lord Jesus himself, his kingdom and his interests.。
And that's what his people should be like. We're not thinking about ourselves all the。
time, but instead we're thinking about the people around us. And so the people are what's。
on God's heart. And so for this sense, unity of mind, it means for us to center and focus。
on what Jesus cares about. And let's see how we're doing in this area. Okay, are you ready。
all? Just see how much of this characteristics do we have. Now, on a daily basis, think about。
the thoughts that are in your mind. Do you think about if you're a student, exams and。
homework? Or do you think about the guy or the girl that you can't seem to get their。
attention of that you want to? Do you think about the relationship issues that you really。
want to work on and resolve? Or the job that you wanted? Or are you thinking about other。
people that are that is on Jesus's heart? Maybe you know a friend who is sick through。
a WhatsApp group? Are you praying for them? Are you able to give them a phone call or。
even visit them? Maybe you haven't seen your parents or taking them out for dim sum if。
they're in the same place that you live in. Would you give them a call to see how they're。
doing? And so this really the unity of mind is to be connected to God and to be thinking。
about the people around us instead of ourselves. So it's a great chance for us to reflect on。
that. Now, interestingly, the first and the fifth attribute of this list, if you look。
at it, speaks of the mind. Now, the second and the fourth speaks of this feeling that。
we'll have. And right in the center, Apostle Peter here speaks of this brotherly love.。
And so we want to look at the fifth one now, because it's very similar to the first. It。
speaks of a humbled mind. Or in here, we will, instead of remember what we just said a moment。
ago, instead of thinking about ourselves, this individualism, we're thinking about other。
people, and really how to serve them. How can we better serve the people around us?。
It's really a servant attitude or serving mindset. And it's not really so much that。
we're thinking, oh, when we say humble, you know, sometimes we think it means to think。
lowly of ourselves. Oh, we're not good at this. I'm not good at that. No, no, no, it's。
not that at all. But that we are to put other people above us or their concern with me in。
our heart. And so let us also do a litmus test on this and see how we're doing with。
the humble mindedness by looking at how it is that we will relate to other people. So。
do we go to church thinking, hey, where's the cookie? Where's the tea? You know, or,。
or you might be thinking, how come no one's talking to me? You know, I've been here for。
like the fifth time. Or do we go there earlier to ask, how is it that I can help? You know,。
is there anything that you want me to do to serve other people? So it's really about serving。
the people that we have around us. And sometimes, you know, we might be in a small group even,。
and we might want people to, to demand them to read certain number of chapters. And it's。
not about that. It's not even about using certain materials, but to really be serving。
the people. What are the needs of the small group that you're in? What is it that people。
are going through? So this is the kind of mindset that Apostle Peter is calling us to.。
Now this actually naturally leads to the second and the fourth attribute, which is to have。
sympathy and compassion. Here it uses a tender heart, which in other translation also means。
compassion. And this really is telling us that when we are serving the people around。
us, it's not self focus. And yet, we're to have an understanding for the people around。
us. You know, maybe some people are going through a difficult time, and we will understand。
be in their shoes. And not only that, but he asked us to be compassionate, meaning that。
we'll respond to that person's needs. And so this really is the call that Apostle Peter。
is asking us, or Jesus himself is asking us to have sympathy, to have compassion. And。
again, you know, let's see how we score in this area. Now, do we constantly find ourselves。
asking either in our heads, or maybe we say it out loud? Why did you do that? Why don't。
you do this? You know, maybe to some extent, we're asking those questions, we're already。
judging them, we're not understanding where they're coming from. And we're not understanding。
the struggles that they have. Now remember, when Jesus was forgiving a woman that was。
caught in adultery, we don't hear Jesus saying, why did you sleep with that man? But no, it。
was never coming from a high place looking down at someone. But instead, he had sympathy。
and compassion. And not that he agrees with the action if it's if it's wrong or sinful,。
but that he would be understanding. And he'll be right there walking alongside with that。
person. And that's the kind of attribute that Apostle Peter is telling us that a Christian。
would have. And finally, we see right at the center, it's brotherly love. Now this attribute,。
you know, in Greek, the original language is phileo, and is not the agape type, which。
means that it's not stressing on the point of unconditional love, but rather one that。
is a family, one that is speaking about a relationship. So that when we are doing all。
these things, having unity of mind, having sympathy and being humble, it's all tied in,。
because we're seeing these people as our brothers and as our sisters. These people are not random。
people, but they're family members. And so again, you know, we want to see how we're。
doing in this area. And we can think about it, you know, when someone is a little, oh,。
even when I say that it might already be judgy. What if someone's a little odd or a little。
different, and you find them hard to be with? You know, how do you react to them? Do you。
naturally just stay away? Or do you really try to make them a part of your small group,。
a part of your friends or circle of friends? And that's really what God's asking us to。
do. People might be different than what we like, but are we still accepting of them?。
Are we still welcoming them? And so when we look at all of these attributes that Apostle。
Peter is telling us here, we find that there is one common ground. And that is the very。
first point that I want to share with you, which is a Christian is a blessed blessing.。
Now when we see all of these qualities, one common theme is that none of these traits。
looks as us selfishly, but it's all looking outward. It's looking at the people and it's。
serving them. To be a blesser is what all of us Christian have been asked. Why? Because。
we have been blessed by Jesus himself. And we've gone through in the past two weeks about。
how is it that Jesus has washed away our sins and he's that living hope that's inside of。
us. And we're called to this priesthood. And this priesthood isn't just you doing things。
on your own, but it is for others, for people. And so Christians are called to be blessed。
blessers. And so I too, you know, often fall into the trap of focusing on myself and, you。
know, limited time. What, you know, how can you spread yourself so thin? But I believe。
that this verse is asking us and God too is asking it. Is there any area that we could。
focus on slightly less on ourselves and more on the people around us? Maybe on our time,。
our energy, our resources. Is there any way that we would mature in these attributes?。
So now let us continue to read on. In verse nine and 10 it says, "Do not repay evil for。
evil for reviling or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless for to this you。
were called that you may obtain a blessing for whoever desires to love life and see good。
days. Let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn。
away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it for the eyes of the Lord are。
on the righteous and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is。
against those who do evil." So after seeing the general characteristics of what a Christian。
is like, how blessing other is the focus of our calling. We see a situational example。
here where someone does evil or they might even insult us or curse us. But in here it。
says clearly that we are not to repay them that way as they did to us. Instead, we're。
called to bless them. And there are two things that we see here that we are to withhold and。
four things we are to do. Now, firstly, it seems to be the easiest thing, which is, it's。
called us to refrain from saying evil things. Instead, we are to hold our tongue and our。
lips so that we won't say things that would hurt other people or to make them repay. Now。
I know every now and then you know you get that person who cuts the lane right in front。
of you, right? Or you get that person who budging so your line and you're waiting for。
the last 20 minutes. And you know, it's natural for us to feel like we need to say something。
out. But in here, in those moments, Apostle Peter is asking us to bless them, say a blessing。
over them. You know, maybe they're really in a hurry. Maybe there's something going。
on. We don't know. Maybe there's nothing going on in their life. But can we still just bless。
them? And in that way, we're able to be the blessed lesser that God has called us to be.。
Now there are four things in which Apostle Peter here tells us not to do, to tell us。
to do, which is let him turn away from evil. Turn away. Not only that, but to do good and。
to let him seek peace and to pursue it. Now, I know I don't really look like it. But back。
in high school, I used to play basketball. And I just wanted to say, you know, the easiest。
thing is to pivot, you know, which is you just turn, it requires no sweat, you're hardly。
even running. And you know, we see these four things kind of intensify, which means that。
the easiest thing is just to not say anything. The second pivot, turn. And you know, right。
there, we're like, all right, I think we've done enough, you know, at least I'm not like。
paying them back. But he doesn't stop there. He asked us to do good. So I, you know, sometimes。
I think maybe next time someone budges in line, I can ask him, Oh, do you need a, do。
you need a hand? Maybe I can help you with some of your groceries, you know. So it's。
asking us to do good. And not only that, but then we need to seek peace and pursue it.。
And so it just seems like Apostle Peter here asks us, when we are a blesser, it seems to。
not make sense when people have done wrong to us. But when we do it, he says that the。
eyes of the Lord will be on you. And that he would open his eyes on the righteous, and。
he would open his ears to listen to their prayers. But to those who does evil, God's。
face will be against them. And you know, I, you know, I think about this sometimes, you。
know, read the Bible. And sometimes it says, the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous.。
I don't know about you, but I think, wait a minute, my righteous person, is he going。
to open his eyes and, and be looking at me. But right here in the scripture, it tells。
us that when we do not repay evil for evil, and when we do good and pursue this peace,。
you are righteous in God's eyes, and he will have his eyes on you. And he'll open his ears。
and listen to your prayer. And the best part, or I think a note for all of us is that, and。
the moment we repay evil with evil, we're the one that's doing evil. And immediately。
it says here that the face of the Lord is against those who does evil. So the moment。
we repay, the moment God's face will be against us. Even if you're a Christian, as we have。
studied from the book of Judges, we see that Israelites have often just done whatever it。
is that they want, and God will put them into the hands of their enemy. And so here, just。
wanted to make a second point, which is the blessed blessers break the cycle of evil。
and obtain God's blessing. And so let us continue to read on. And so now, and now who is there。
to harm you if you're zealous for what is good? So right here, you know, it's already。
trying to say when you do good, the likelihood of harm being done on you, it should be zero.。
And yet in verse 14, it says, but even so, you know, even if you've done good, you've。
helped the lady of the grocery who might have budged your line or whoever it is that have。
wronged you. Even if you were to suffer for righteousness sake, when you have done good,。
you will be blessed. So even if someone were to harm you when you're done right, the Bible。
verse here tells us we'll still be blessed. And in here says, have no fear on them nor。
trouble but in your hearts, honor Christ the Lord as holy. Now we think about it, what。
does it really mean? Does anybody know what it means? How can we at those time honor Christ。
the Lord as holy? Well, we read the top and a little bit of the bottom, we'll know that。
it means that we don't need to fear them. If we honor God, Christ as holy, he's the。
only person that we need to have the fear to revere him. And if he is holy, we will。
act not according to what people do to us, but we will act only to please him because。
he is the holy one. And we're saying he is holy in our hearts when we continue to do。
what's right. And here it says, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks。
you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Now, if we've done according to what the Bible。
verse says here, your opposer or this person that is giving you a hard time will definitely。
ask why, why would you do that? I'm doing something against you. Why are you not repaying。
the evil to me? And it says here that we'll be ready to make that defense. It's because。
of Jesus. And I love how it says, you know, do with gentleness and respect because we。
can be saying to other, yeah, but it's because of Jesus. Or we can, we can say it in a way。
that it isn't putting down that person, but allowing that person to see the Jesus that。
is in us. And in verse 16, it continues saying, having a good conscience so that when you're。
slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. Now, what does。
it mean when the verse says, having good conscience, it doesn't seem to link with anything, but。
having good conscience means to not have this guilty feeling. Why would they, why would。
he say that? It means that when you do things without any guilty, guilty feeling, having。
good conscience means that you've done the best of your knowledge, that when you're doing。
this, whatever action that you're taking, there's nothing that's hindering you. Hey,。
don't do this. You know, there's no voice in your heart that says that. And you know。
how it is, you know, sometimes when we repay someone and we're trying to be mean back to。
them inside of us, you know, there's a conscience that's almost wants us, Hey, don't do this,。
you know, but we, most of the time we just shove it away. Nevermind. I don't want to。
hear that right now. So really here, when is it having a good conscience is saying that。
when you're doing everything and there isn't that voice or, you know, you know, with a。
guilty feeling, you're not supposed to do this. It means that you've done your best。
to the best of your knowledge, acting in a right way. And you know what, when we do that,。
the people will be put to shame. And just like, you know, the easier example I was using,。
imagine someone budging into line, right? And you said, Hey, may I help you with your。
groceries? Let me hold that for you. I think that person for sure things are weird, but。
the other thing will think, wow, you know, I can't believe I've just budged in line.。
So this is what it's telling us. And so, and in verse 17, which I really love for it is。
better to suffer for doing good, if it should be God's will, then, then for doing evil,。
it really means that, Hey, you're going to suffer anyways. So might as well, because。
it's not like they're not going to budge. It's not like, you know, they're not cutting。
into your lanes. But in that case, why don't you just do it for good, if you're going to。
suffer for it anyways. And it's true. And just like earlier, we saw that. And if we。
do that, if we don't repay evil with evil, God will give us a blessing. And for sure。
it will be a better choice. And I'm verse 18. It says, for Christ also suffered once。
for sin, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God being put to。
death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Now, I just want us to kind of highlight,。
which I didn't hear actually the word for, you know, a lot of times we might be thinking,。
you know what, let's do good because we're going to get a blessing from God. But I want。
to say that is the result and not the reason. I'll say that again. Getting a blessing from。
the Lord when we do good is a result and not a reason. Now that is a huge difference. And。
how do we know? Well, it's very easy to know if something goes wrong, and you almost want。
to blame God for something going wrong. It means that we have this entitlement, we think。
that, oh, but I've already done everything I could. God should be blessing me. Why isn't。
he? If that is what goes through your head when bad things happen, it means that our。
reason for blessing others or doing right is so we can get something back. It's a trade。
off. It's a trade. But, you know, if something goes bad, and yet, we just continue with honoring。
Jesus, just like earlier the verse saying in your hearts, continue to say that he's。
holy, then this verse applies, which is, that's the reason you're doing it. The reason that。
you're blessing others isn't for the blessing that's a result, but because Christ has suffered。
for you and for me. And he was the one that's righteous, and he took on our unrighteousness.。
And he brought us to God, reconciling our relationship. And if that is the reason, then。
even when bad things happen, we can continue to honor God, because we have been so blessed。
by him. And so this brings us to the third point that I want to share with you, which。
is blessed blessers are the imitation of Christ. We're doing all this to bless other people,。
because we want to be exactly like what Christ did for us. And I love, you know, earlier。
how Adrian sharing, you know, she shared about how her baby imitates what they do. And, you。
know, we ought to think we need to be better babies. We need to be like babies so that。
we can imitate Christ, because he ultimately blessed us, and we need to do the same. And。
I want to share with you actually a kind of sad story. In 2015, it's on the news that。
Daylon Roof, who was a 20 year old, was arrested because of nine counts of murder at Charleston。
Church. Maybe some of you remember it and have heard this before. It was a hate crime,。
and he discriminated against the African Americans. So one day he went into church, and he shot。
random people during a Bible study. Now during the court hearing, some of the relatives who。
represented the victims forgave Daylon. And you see there is a clip here, but we don't。
have time to go through it. But I wanted to read one account of the daughter of one of。
the victims said this, and I was hugely moved by it. And she said this, "I just wanted everyone。
to know, and you," he was speaking to Daylon, "that I forgive you. You took away something。
very precious from me, and I would never be able to talk to her ever again. I would never。
be able to hold her again. But I forgive you and have mercy on your soul. You hurt me.。
You hurt a lot of people. But God forgives you, and I forgive you." And many other representatives。
also came forward saying very similar things, one after another. And one even invited the。
murderer, Daylon, to their Bible study and asking God to have mercy on his soul. Sometimes。
I think about it, you know, these Bible verses that we read, you know, talking about someone。
budging, you know, it seems like if it's an easy scenario, we can do it. And then we look。
at someone, these wonderful saints at Charleston Church, and we really see Christ in them.。
And this living hope is in them. And when they said these words, for sure they were。
in pain, but they knew that Jesus forgave all their sins and blessed them. And Jesus。
brought them to God to reconcile. And they truly were imitators of Christ. Just as Christ。
suffered for the unrighteous, they too suffered for the unrighteous. And they were willing。
to do that because they received his blessing, and they appointed him to warn Christ, always。
being ready to tell people the reason for their hope. And so we have been too called。
to be the blessed blessers. We've been called to repay evil with good, with blessings. We。
may not have to face, and we hope not to face such a tragic situation. And in our hearts,。
we also pray for the victims and their families. We just wanted to say that just as Christ。
did for us, we ought to do it for others around us too. Now towards people that we do evil,。
like the people there that we saw at Charleston Church, they were able to withhold their tongue。
from saying evil things. And they were also able to tell them about the living hope that。
is inside of them and how Jesus also forgives. I wonder if we're able to do that too. Maybe。
since, you know, maybe we can start small. When someone cuts your lane, budges in line,。
instead of saying cursing and rolling our eyes, we can bless them. Maybe it's your coworker。
who gives you a pile of work and takes your credit for it. Maybe we could continue to。
bless them and maybe even buy them a lunch. Maybe your best friend went after the guy。
or the girl that you liked. Would you still be able to bless them and say a prayer? And。
maybe it's your husband who promised you to fold your clothes, but the clothes have still。
been lying around for two weeks. Can you still cheerfully go an extra mile and fold them?。
That one's probably for me, by the way. I asked my layman if it would be all right to。
share and he said, yes, it would be only if you follow through with it. So I've decided。
to follow through. So I just wanted to say, start small. Start with our everyday life。
things and we can be what Apostle Peter is calling us to be. That blessed blessing. And。
people will then be able to see the living hope that is inside of us. Why would she be。
willing to fold those clothes? I know I'm probably getting carried away with this example,。
but even so, if no one has wronged you, we could still be a blesser. Remember those characteristics?。
I mean, we don't have to do this if someone did something wrong. We can just maybe spend。
an extra five minutes praying for the people that you heard were in pain through your WhatsApp。
groups. Or giving them a call. Someone you haven't visited for a while, go visit them。
at home. Of course, given that it's safe under COVID. Or just instead of investing your money。
and hoarding it, treat some people that are struggling. Or put your money to good use。
in terms of finding an organization that you find meaningful. And so I really hate for。
this sermon to be another sermon that you hear on a Saturday night. And so I challenge。
you to do one blessed thing a day. Whatever it may be, you can say hi to the guard, you。
know, that seems to be bored all the time. Because no one, you know, everyone ignores。
him. And I just really challenge you, walk away today to do one thing that you can be。
a blessing to others. And by that, I'm sure we're all imitators of Christ. And he did。
promise us that we would have a blessing, that we would have him on our side, and his。
eyes would be on us, and his ears would be attentive to our prayers. And I know he would。
do that. So I pray that, you know, this, we would not only have received the blessing。
once, but that we would give it to other and God would continue to bless all of you. So。
let us pray together. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the blessing that you've。
given to us. Our sins have been forgiven forever. And we have an imperishable soul and spirit,。
all because the righteous dared the unrighteous. And Father God, we thank you so much for blessing。
us and we pray that we too would be able to bless others. That Father, we won't repay。
evil with evil, but instead we'll choose to do good. We choose to bless for no reason。
other than to please you and to honor you as our God. And so we will be imitators of。
Christ. Father God, we just pray that you would help us. May your spirit strengthen。
us, be willing to serve others above our feelings, to love those around us. Thank you for blessing。
us every day. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
