Thank you so much, Pastor John, and it's amazing to see all of you.。
I'm glad all you are healthy and Hong Kong is looking strong and we're so excited to。
continue this series, Mark My Word.。
Today, the word is blessed, blessed.。
And so I want you to type in your chat what comes to mind when you hear this word blessed。
as you see in the next slide.。
What comes to mind in what comes to mind when you see this word blessed?。
Is it blessings of blessing?。
I'm blessed because what comes to mind when you hear this word blessed?。
God?。
Yes, God is blessed.。
Grace.。
Blessed is the name of the Lord.。
Very good.。
Yeah.。
What about others?。
Any others?。
Happy?。
Yeah.。
If you're blessed, you should be happy, I guess.。
Yeah, absolutely.。
Very good.。
The Beatitudes, protected, being protected by God, protection from Him.。
That's excellent.。
Very good.。
Persecution.。
Yes.。
I mean, in the Beatitudes, it says, "Blessed are those who persecute you," right?。
"For your reward will be in heaven."。
Absolutely.。
Inheritance.。
Very good.。
It is good to give as well as to receive.。
Very good.。
Excellent.。
And as Pastor John said earlier, Palm Sunday is the start of the Holy Week for Christians,。
and that is Jesus' approach towards Jerusalem, and then finally, towards His death and His。
resurrection.。
And for Jews, it is the celebration of Passover.。
And we're going to take a look at the film.。
It's been amazing to have the film with us and just having live just examples of what。
Jesus did, what He spoke.。
And so, Bonnie, take it away.。
Let's see the video.。
As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, Jesus。
sent two of His disciples, saying to them, "Go to the village ahead of you, and just。
as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden.。
Untie it and bring it here.。
If anyone asks you, 'Why are you doing this?'。
say, 'The Lord needs it and will send it back here shortly.'"。
They went and found a colt outside in the street, tied at a doorway.。
As they untied it, some people standing there asked, "What are you doing, untying that。
colt?"。
They answered as Jesus had told them to, and the people let them go.。
When they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, He sat on it.。
Many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others spread branches they had cut。
in the fields.。
Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted, "Hosanna!。
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!。
Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David!。
Hosanna in the highest heaven!"。
Jesus entered Jerusalem and went into the temple courts.。
He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, He went out to Bethany。
with the twelve.。
All right, what an excellent clip.。
And so, we see here that Jesus was approaching Jerusalem.。
Now, we know from the other gospel passages that Jesus had been to Jerusalem before, right?。
Just like any good Jew, they would go to the temple and continue to have different rituals。
and different festivals.。
And so, this wasn't the first time Jesus entered Jerusalem, that this was possibly, or we know,。
that it is His final time to Jerusalem before His death and resurrection.。
And so, it's very interesting here.。
We see that Jesus enters Bethany and goes to the Mount, at the Mountain of Olives, and。
He tells the disciples to go and find a colt, right?。
So, it could be a young donkey or a young horse, and He told them to bring it to Him。
because the Lord needs it.。
And it's very funny here.。
When do we ever see Jesus say that He needs something?。
Or maybe the Lord is referring to God, or some people could say it could be God or it。
could be Jesus, but when does He ever say that God needs something?。
It is very interesting here to point out.。
And so, we see sort of the map of Jerusalem here.。
We see in the next slide that He's going through Bethany and Beth-ayahsh towards Jerusalem.。
And so, this is around, the Mount of Olives is around 826 meters above sea level.。
Jerusalem is 785 meters above sea level.。
So, it's not a huge mountain, it's a little hill, possibly the size of, probably shorter。
than Lion's Rock here, right?。
Jesus is sort of on the mountain and He's about to descend, and that is when we see。
His triumphant entry into Jerusalem.。
And so, we're going to see four things here about the blessed Messiah tonight.。
The first thing is that we are blessed by His presence.。
We are blessed by His peace.。
We are blessed when we praise Him.。
We are blessed by His purpose.。
And so, first of all, we are blessed by His presence.。
And so, when somebody amazing comes into the room, when somebody of power, or when Pastor。
John comes into the room, the room comes alive, right?。
There's instant chatter, there's instant excitement in the room, right?。
And so, we are blessed in the presence of a King that is coming.。
And when Jesus comes, He's coming in humility.。
He's coming in a donkey, or a small colt, or a small horse, right?。
He comes as a servant King.。
He's not coming to just be served and to be praised, but He's coming to seek and to save。
and to serve.。
He is a servant King.。
And it says, and it was prophesied in Zechariah 9, verse 9, "Behold, your King is coming to。
you.。
Righteous and having salvation is He, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal。
of a donkey."。
And so, it was prophesied in the Old Testament that Jesus would come, and that He would come。
as a King on a donkey.。
And it's also interesting that in the Old Testament, He's not the only King that rides。
into Jerusalem, or rides as a King on a mule or a donkey.。
King Solomon also did that in the Old Testament.。
And so, firstly, we are blessed by His presence.。
The presence of this King is humility, a servant King, willing to obey God, God's will, the。
Father's will, to the point of death towards the cross.。
And so, I remember when I went on the ski trip to Japan, and I went with all these,。
you know, CEOs, executives, doctors, business owners, and I was like, "Whoa."。
I was in this room and having dinner with them, and I was like, "Whoa, these guys are。
all, you know, probably millionaires or really rich people."。
And I was like, "I don't belong in this room," right?。
But then, they spoke to me.。
They looked me into the eye.。
They asked about me.。
They cared for me.。
And so, I felt the humility of these people who were rich, who were, you know, high class,。
who were, you know, big rollers, right?。
That these people had humility.。
And that is sort of like Jesus.。
Jesus, He is enthroned in heaven, and yet He is willing to come and eat with us and。
be among us, a people that is sinner and don't deserve His presence.。
But that is Jesus, that we are blessed by His humility, His servant heart.。
In His presence, we are blessed.。
And next, we see that the Jews, they were also expecting something from this Messiah,。
right?。
They expected a Messiah to be coming on a war horse.。
They were expecting Him to be proud, right?。
Chin up, right?。
Everybody put their chin up, you know?。
They expected, yeah, Gabe, I see you, right?。
They expected this King, this Messiah to be coming and saving them in physical power,。
mighty, amazing, that Jesus rides in, not on a mighty war horse, right?。
Like those crazy Roman emperors that are coming in with their whole entire armies.。
No, Jesus rides in, in a colt, a baby horse, a donkey.。
And He doesn't come with physical power, with a huge army beside Him.。
He comes with His disciples, His disciples.。
And next, we see the second thing, is that we are blessed by His peace.。
Coming on a colt, on a donkey, also symbolizes peace.。
And we know that throughout the New Testament and in the Old Testament,。
Jesus is called the Prince of Peace.。
And then in the midst of the greatest storm, He is the one that calms the storm.。
He is the one that gives peace.。
And so, Jesus also says to the disciples, "Peace I leave with you, peace I give to you,。
not as the world gives.。
Do not let your hearts be troubled or afraid."。
In the presence of Jesus, there is peace.。
And we are blessed by His peace.。
And so, these Jews, they were expecting victory, as we see in the next slide.。
We were, they were expecting victory over the Romans,。
because the Romans had been empowering them, right?。
Jews had been overthrown and overpowered for so many centuries, right?。
First, the Egyptians, and then the Persians, and then the Syrians,。
and then the Babylonians, and now the Romans.。
And so, they were expecting this Messiah, this Saviour,。
to grant them victory over the Romans, so that they would be restored.。
But Jesus came, not for peace with the Romans.。
Jesus came to restore their inner peace,。
because their peace with God was broken because of sin.。
And so, Jesus came for inner peace, to restore this broken relationship with God,。
so that they could have peace with God once again.。
And so, on the chat, I want you to write,。
when was a time that you experienced the peace of Christ?。
When have you experienced Him in the midst of all the storms of your life?。
Maybe the storms of this pandemic, not being able to travel.。
Maybe the economic disaster, or the things that have been going on.。
When have you experienced the peace of Christ in your life?。
Would you like to share?。
Every day, very good.。
There are so many storms in our lives every day.。
Maybe in the MTR, right?。
There's just so much, you know, it's like zombies, right?。
Travelling from one place to another.。
And you've experienced peace in the MTR, in the midst of all these people going on.。
You know, just being able to run.。
Okay, being still.。
Yeah, absolutely.。
Just being able to sit and be still before the Lord.。
Yes, in the midst of storms.。
Absolutely.。
You know, so many people are experiencing mental illness, right?。
And we talked about that in our student college program.。
She's been going through these things where her friend had committed suicide,。
and she was seeking the peace of God.。
Yes, when you pray, you experience the peace of God.。
Absolutely.。
Praying is us humbling ourselves before God,。
and saying that, "God, we need you in this situation, in our lives."。
So, we've seen two things already.。
That we've been blessed by His presence.。
We've been blessed by His peace.。
We are blessed, absolutely.。
We experience peace when we let Him take control, right?。
And when we surrender our lives.。
Thank you, Florence, for that.。
And so, we're going to see two other things.。
That we are blessed as we praise Him, and we are blessed by His purpose.。
And so, let's read verse 9 once again.。
"Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted,。
'Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!。
Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David!。
Blessed is he! Hosanna in the highest! Hosanna in the highest!'"。
And so, when there is a king, what happens?。
There are often gifts for a king.。
What happens when Jesus was born?。
The Magi, the kings of the East, they brought frankincense, myrrh, and gold, right?。
And so, what do we bring?。
What do we bring to the king?。
We bring our praise to the king.。
When we praise the king, there is just an amazing feeling of just worshipping Him.。
There's an amazing feeling of being blessed as we sing songs of surrender towards Jesus,。
towards Him.。
It's amazing that throughout the New Testament,。
Jesus didn't allow people to praise Him, right?。
Whenever demons said, "This is the Son of God,"。
or "This is Messiah," or "This is the King,"。
He would often tell demons to be quiet, or tell the disciples to not let people yet know。
that He is the King, or who He is.。
And that is because His time had not yet come.。
And this is the first time that He is receiving praise from the people, right?。
It's sort of like a red carpet, right?。
People are putting cloaks onto the donkey,。
putting cloaks onto the floor,。
palm trees onto the floor,。
waving palm trees as well.。
They're giving Jesus the praise and the glory and the gifts that He deserved.。
And this is the first time we see that He allows it.。
And they cry, "Hosanna, Hosanna!"。
And that means, "Deliver us now," or "Save now," in Hebrew.。
And it's amazing that if we do not praise this King,。
if you do not praise this King,。
in a similar version in Luke chapter 19,。
who also talks about the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem,。
He says that, "I tell you, if you were silent,。
"the very stones would cry out."。
If you don't praise Jesus, if you don't praise this King,。
even the rocks will cry out.。
Isn't that amazing?。
You know, when you're rock climbing, can you imagine?。
The rocks are praising Jesus.。
Every hold, every crimp, every foothold that you have,。
those footholds, those crimps, those jugs that you're holding onto,。
those rocks are praising Jesus.。
If you don't praise Jesus, the rocks will cry out.。
It's amazing.。
And I shared the story of Ken earlier, right?。
As we see in the next slide, as we worship the Lord,。
and as he was worshiping the Lord late last year,。
and as he was singing about the reckless love of God,。
our student Ken came to know Jesus,。
and he confessed Jesus to be Lord and Savior。
when he was in a worship service, praising God.。
And that's because when we praise God,。
and we give Him all the glory and honor that He deserves,。
somehow we are blessed in His presence.。
We are blessed as we praise God.。
And Ken shared that he was blessed and confessed Jesus。
to be the Lord and Savior of his life。
the first time when he entered into worship of the Lord.。
So we are blessed in His presence.。
And the Jews, so we see that the Jews were looking。
for a proud king who would come on a war horse.。
They were looking for a physically powerful king。
that would come with his armies.。
He would have victory over the Romans.。
He was looking for, they were looking for a king,。
a Messiah that would save them physically,。
that would bless them physically.。
But no, Jesus came to save them,。
not just from physical sin,。
not physically, but also spiritually.。
Jesus came ultimately to save them from sin and death,。
and to conquer death once and for all.。
And the last thing that we're blessed by。
is we're blessed by His purpose.。
Jesus came for a specific purpose,。
and that is to seek and save that which He was lost.。
He came not just to do miracles,。
not just to touch the brokenhearted,。
the lepers, the women at the well.。
No, He came ultimately for all of us.。
His purpose was to be an ultimate sacrifice,。
to be a sacrificial lamb.。
Isn't it amazing that at the start of this Jewish Passover,。
and they were remembering how God had saved them from Egypt,。
and they were looking to slaughter lamb,。
and the blood shed, and they were putting it at the door,。
blood would protect them from the angel of death,。
that Jesus came as the ultimate sacrifice,。
the ultimate lamb that would be dying for them on the cross once and for all.。
His blood shed for you and me,。
so that the Lord would have peace with us once again,。
and that our relationship with Him would be restored.。
And so, we see that the Jews were looking for restoration of Israel.。
They wanted Israel to be restored to the times of King David,。
to the grandeur of King Solomon,。
with all his riches and all his wisdom.。
They wanted Israel to be at the forefront of the world,。
to be on the map again.。
They expected this Messiah to come and restore Israel.。
But Jesus came to restore our citizenship in heaven.。
The Jews were looking for an earthly, a physical restoration of Israel,。
but Jesus was looking for a spiritual and a heavenly restoration,。
making us a new creation in heaven before the Lord.。
And so, the question we have to ask is,。
do we have the right view of the Messiah?。
Right?。
We have learned here that we have been blessed.。
We have been blessed by His presence, the presence of the King.。
We are blessed by the peace of the King.。
We are blessed as we praise Him.。
We are blessed because of His purpose to save us,。
to become the sacrificial lamb, to be the ultimate sacrifice for us.。
Have you experienced the blessings that come with the King?。
And the next question we have to ask is,。
do we have the right view of the Messiah?。
The Jews did not see the Messiah as Jesus presented Himself, right?。
Once again, the Jews were looking for a proud,。
mighty warrior, victory over the Romans.。
They were looking for a physical victory and a restoration of Israel to its might.。
But Jesus came humble.。
He came to restore peace, our peace with God.。
He came so that we would be saved from physical,。
a spiritual damnation from our own sin and death.。
Jesus came to restore our citizenship in heaven.。
And so do we have the right view of the Messiah?。
Maybe, you know, we know of Jesus,。
but we haven't truly given Him all the control in our life.。
Here are some questions that help us to ponder in the next slide.。
Do we truly believe that Jesus is in control?。
Just like Florence said, right, as we give up control,。
we have peace, truly peace from God.。
If we truly believe that Jesus is in control and that God is sovereign over things,。
then why is it that we're running around trying to control everything in our life?。
Do we truly believe that Jesus is in control?。
Do we truly believe that Jesus has what is best for us?。
If we believe He has what is best for us,。
then why are we trying to change everything and manipulating everything。
when we should just trust Him and ask Him to open doors for us?。
Obviously, we need to do our part.。
I'm not saying do nothing.。
I'm saying we do our part, but we trust that He has best for us.。
But a lot of times we're not living our lives。
like we truly believe that He has what is best for us.。
I have a plan.。
My plan is the best, and we are shattered when our plan doesn't work out。
because it shows that we believe we have what is best for us.。
And if we surrendered to the King, if we surrendered to the Lord,。
then we would have peace, true peace.。
Are we saved by grace?。
Do we believe that we are saved by grace and not by works?。
And because I'm a doer, right, I sometimes get in this trap。
where I believe that the more I do for Jesus,。
the more I help people to come to know Jesus,。
the more people that come to know faith,。
then God would love me more.。
I fall into that trap sometimes because I am a doer.。
I think that, oh, if I help out with this fellowship。
and that fellowship and this ministry and that ministry,。
and if I do more for Jesus, then He'll love me more.。
But that's not right because God loves me as I am, right?。
There's no way I can gain more money or gain more works。
so that God would love me more.。
No, God loves us unconditionally.。
And sometimes we go from relationship to relationship。
to relationship, trying to find love。
when we should truly believe that this Messiah。
loves us unconditionally.。
We are loved.。
We don't need to go around seeking love from relationship。
to relationship to relationship。
because we know that Jesus died for us.。
God loves us so much that Jesus was sent by God,。
His one and only Son,。
so that we could have a restored relationship with Him.。
And it's interesting how this passage ends here.。
Let's look at the next verses here.。
"Jesus entered Jerusalem and went into the temple courts,。
and He looked around at everything,。
but since it was already late,。
He went out to Bethany with the twelve."。
It's interesting here。
because there's multiple accounts of this.。
You know, in Matthew, what happens is Jesus arrives。
and they're shouting "Hosanna!"。
and they place Baham branches,。
and then what happens is that Jerusalem was stirred up.。
They're like, "Who is this?。
Who is this Jesus?"。
And they're like, "Oh, Jesus, this is the prophet。
that has come," or "This is the Messiah that has come."。
There was confusion in the city.。
That's what Matthew accounts for.。
And then in the Gospel of Luke, when Jesus comes in,。
they were like, "Even the stones will rise up。
and praise the Lord."。
There was a sense of praise.。
The city was stirred up to praise God.。
But here in the account of Mark,。
it says that Jesus entered the temple courts,。
and He looked around at everything,。
and then He went back to Bethany.。
What's interesting here is that they were praising Jesus。
as He was entering into Jerusalem,。
but as He arrived to the temple,。
to the temple courts,。
when God arrives to the temple courts,。
where is everybody?。
Where are the priests?。
Where are the people?。
God Himself has arrived in the place where He,。
where this place was, the temple of heaven,。
was created for God, and God Himself has entered,。
and they do not praise Him.。
Nobody's there.。
Mark accounts that He went around,。
He looked around at everything, and then He left.。
And it is as if the Jews had missed God Himself,。
Jesus in the flesh, the Word made flesh,。
as He went into the temple Himself.。
And it is a stark reminder for us。
that the Jews missed Jesus.。
They made the temple for God,。
and when God, Jesus,。
Himself enters it,。
they didn't even know He was there.。
And so, could it be for the same for us today,。
that as we went into the church,。
as we go into worshipping God on Zoom here。
or to the church physically,。
have we missed Jesus?。
Maybe we don't even recognize Jesus.。
We've missed Him.。
Just like the Jews,。
they didn't recognize Jesus。
as He went to the temple Himself.。
And so I hope, my hope is that。
we recognize Jesus as we go to church,。
and that we know that He is our Savior.。
He is God of the universe.。
And that one day, it says in Revelations,。
as we see in the next slide,。
He is coming again.。
I am coming soon.。
My reward is with me,。
and I will give to each person。
according to what they have done.。
I am the Alpha and the Omega,。
the first and the last,。
the beginning and the end.。
Jesus will come again.。
Jesus will come again.。
And this time, He will come victorious。
in power, in judgment,。
and He will come in victory.。
And so I pray that we have not missed Jesus,。
that we have not misunderstood who Jesus is,。
and that we have claimed Him。
to be Hosanna, our Savior, once and for all.。
God bless you on this Palm Sunday.。
May you recognize the Messiah and who He is.。
We're going to respond now in a song called "Hosanna."。
Let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, we thank You for Your presence,。
that we are blessed by the presence of the King.。
We are blessed by the peace of the King.。
We are blessed as we praise You.。
And as we come into worshiping You now,。
You are Hosanna in the highest.。
May You, may You be pleased with our praises to You.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
