So good evening everyone.。
Tonight we're going to start on a new series on the book of Ecclesiastes.。
Now the topic that we'll be discussing today is, is life worth living?。
Now as you all or some of you might know, I am pregnant.。
I'll just show my tummy.。
This is not eating too much potato chips for sure.。
And so Philemon and I are expecting to have a baby in December and we're extremely excited。
about it.。
For those of you who want to ask, do we know if it's a boy or a girl yet?。
The answer is not yet, but we will be in about 10 days time when we do another round of scanning.。
Now I know that Pastor John really wanted me to do this, which is to hold my tummy and。
then ask, is life worth living?。
I mean he did mention that he can use his own belly, but I think it might mean something。
else if he did that.。
So let's stick with me I think.。
So as a new life begins from a baby's first breath to the last one, there's a lot of things。
that happen, right?。
And in the Hong Kong context, what does that mean?。
It means that the parents will have to start looking for a hospital to give birth.。
And then next thing you know, the child is born and he or she learns to walk and talk。
and learns to be cute.。
Maybe that part they don't have to learn.。
They're naturally born, right?。
And then of course you have to go through trying to line up for an interview to get。
into what?。
Kindergarten, okay?。
And then go through primary school trying to do all the exams so that you can get into。
good secondary school.。
And then what?。
You might start dating if your parents allow you.。
And if they don't, well you just kind of hide it from them and you still do it anyways,。
right?。
And then you go through college and then you might find a job that you like or it was encouraged。
by your parents to do it, right?。
And so eventually you might get yourself a house, a mortgage, and some of you decides。
to get married or some of you might not.。
And that's kind of what we see, right?。
And then they might have kids and then we see that all over again.。
And then that person may or may not get sick and then eventually what happens?。
They die.。
And that is the story of life.。
But there's also another story that we'll also see, right?。
There are people, for example, that are orphans to begin with or they might be born with a。
disability or they might actually develop a severe disease in which their lives would。
never be the same for them and also their families.。
It's very difficult, right?。
And actually some other ones, they might start to be involved with drugs or involved with。
the wrong people that lead them to commit crimes.。
And yet there are still others who might commit suicide because of a mental illness or things。
that are happening in their lives.。
So what we see is that rather it is the circle of life or unintended mishaps in life.。
It begs the question, is life worth living?。
And so first off, what we're going to do today is that we are going to unfold Ecclesiastes。
little bit at a time.。
And then so today I want to first give you some background about the book of Ecclesiastes.。
Now it is a piece of wisdom literature.。
So it has a lot of wisdom.。
That's what it means.。
And then it's also written in a form of a poetry, which is very common in that time。
of King Solomon and also in the near East countries.。
Now it's a very different books than all the other books, right?。
Because what we see is before that there is the story of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob about the。
Israelites and all of a sudden there's the book of Ecclesiastes.。
And it's really a story that's kind of observes life and then draws some conclusions.。
So Ecclesiastes offer a rather dark and sometimes even depressing worldview.。
Now fertility and emptiness seems to overwhelm what is joy and success, right?。
And life is unfair.。
Work is pointless.。
Nature fails to satisfy.。
Good living and wise thinking seems to be futile because you, us, we're all going to。
die anyways.。
And it suggests that only fearing God and preparing for judgment matters.。
So we're going to unpack that throughout the next 11 weeks.。
And these are the topics that we'll be going through.。
So tonight is, is life worth living?。
And we're going to look at living in circles, disgusted with life, time and toil.。
Life just isn't fair.。
Stop thief.。
Is life a dead end street?。
How to be better off?。
What about the wicked?。
Meaning so small here, meeting your last enemy.。
A little folly is dangerous.。
What is life all about?。
So we're just going to unpack that.。
But today really would be answering the question, is life worth living?。
Now in the very first verse of this chapter, we see the words of the preacher, the son。
of David, King of Jerusalem.。
So what we see is that the author right from the start introduces what he's about to say。
and is from this preacher.。
Now the word preacher in Hebrew is kohelet.。
It stems from this verb that means an assembly of people.。
And in this case is an assembly of people that would come together to learn and to listen.。
And the Greek is ecclesiaste, which is what we get from the English, the name of this。
book Ecclesiastes.。
And the Greek word is ecclesia, which is what we see in the New Testament, that means church.。
So it's a people of gathering to hear this wisdom preached by this preacher.。
Now so many would identify, do you know who the author is of this book?。
Solomon, yes.。
So many would actually identify the author to be Solomon because while it says that it。
is the son of David, right?。
And who would not be better than Solomon?。
But there are also other good reasons to believe that it might not be Solomon because it was。
never explicitly said.。
I mean, son of David could be more than one and it can just be a way that the author introduces。
this preacher.。
And at the same time, Solomon refers to a number of, sorry, the author introduces himself。
as I the king more than once.。
But when he did that, it was in an era that was not quite in Solomon's time.。
And also the Hebrew language that was used was actually not the time where Solomon was,。
but a bit later after that.。
So it suggests that it might not be Solomon, but it is debatable rather or not it is him.。
But one thing that is more widely accepted is that the person who's writing it, the author。
actually adopts the personality of King Solomon and his point of view.。
So it seems that there should be at least two roles, okay?。
There's one role of the author or the editor, and then there's the preacher who is examining。
the world and he's drawing some conclusion himself.。
But at the same time, the author or the editor is also observing what this preacher is saying。
and drawing his own conclusions.。
So we're sometimes going to see here two voices because of this.。
It might be the same person, but we don't know for sure.。
Now, so in verse three, the author says, "What does man gain by all the toil at which he。
toils under the sun?"。
Now this is a very good question.。
What does man gain through all the works under the sun?。
But it seems to not answer it right at this moment.。
But you notice, you know how sometimes we ask a question, it's almost like we've already。
given the answer, right?。
So and then it implicitly implies that actually no, there is no benefit of all the toils under。
the sun.。
Now when we talk about benefits or gain in this word, I want to highlight the word gain,。
okay?。
I mean, what do we think of?。
We think of jeckso, right?。
Jeckso, okay?。
And I think the people in Hong Kong are not foreign to it, okay?。
Is anybody who's here that doesn't want a good deal?。
We all want a good deal, right?。
So just a few days ago at 7/11, there was this great deal of their annual sale, 23%。
off, everything above $100, if you can read this.。
And so being the kind of wanting jeckso people, right, on our way home, Falima and I decided,。
you know what, maybe we'll pass by 7/11 just to have a look, see what kind of good deals。
we get, right?。
And so when we got off the bus, there were six people ahead of us.。
And surprisingly enough, they were all heading to the 7/11 for what?。
Jeckso, right?。
Yeah.。
And so recently we've been trying to fix up our air con as well at home.。
So I've been calling places after places, over 10 for sure, to get a quote.。
Why?。
Because I want to save a few hundred dollars, maybe over a thousand.。
So I mean, we're definitely not foreigners of this gain or jeckso, right?。
And I mean, that's why you choose your job anyways, hopefully.。
I mean, if there were two jobs that gave you an offer, which one do you choose?。
The one that gave you more benefit.。
If there were two people that you could be dating, which one would you choose?。
The one that probably encourages you and loves you more, right?。
Not money wise, come on.。
And then of course, we think about these things, don't we?。
I mean, who here's want to do all the work for nothing?。
Put up your hand, come on.。
We'll hire you right away.。
No one, right?。
So when we talk about gain, because this is what Ecclesiastes is saying, that what does。
man gain from all this toil?。
It's a good question.。
What do we benefit from?。
Now it actually in verse two, the author tells us why it is that there is no gain.。
I'm going back from verse three, back to verse two, because he says, "Vanity of vanities."。
The preacher says, "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity."。
Now the Hebrew word is actually hebel.。
It means that it's futile, lacking substance, profitless, and pointless.。
The reason it asks the next question, what is the gain, is because he's already seen。
that there is no gain.。
It's all vanity.。
And in its noun form, it means like vapor or wind.。
So I want you to all hold out your hand right now, either hand.。
Okay, now try to hold some air.。
Can you do that?。
Are you holding?。
This is hebel.。
Okay, you can put it down now.。
You don't have to do it all night long, unless you really want it.。
But this is hebel.。
So every time we talk about this fertility, where this nothingness or this emptiness,。
something that we can't grasp and is fleeting away, because even if you have tried, you。
can't.。
So a few days ago, Felima and I were watching the Grand Slam.。
It was the Wimbledon's finals.。
And we watched the women's final.。
It was Elena Rebikina against Anjabub.。
I can never really pronounce their name right.。
But what we see is it was the final, and they were in the third set, and eventually, of。
course, not of course, but Rebikina won.。
And so we were expecting all other champions, what did they do?。
They jump up and down, and some of them fall on their faces, and they're just like disbelief.。
Oh my gosh, I won this, right?。
That's what we were expecting.。
But interestingly, Rebikina did not respond like that.。
She was as if she just made it into the preliminary.。
She was like, "Okay, thank you."。
But even the commentators had to say, "Can someone please go down and tell her she just。
won the Wimbledon's final?"。
Okay, because it's like she's unaware of it.。
And I just thought to myself, maybe she has got ecclesiastics nailed.。
Maybe she's like, "It's all futile anyways.。
I mean, Wimbledon finals, whatever.。
Yeah, $2.5 million of something, I think.。
It's okay."。
What does that mean?。
Of course, eventually during an interview, she did say she was too nervous to respond.。
But what we actually see is that life is just temporal.。
This is one of the main themes in ecclesiastics.。
It's temporal.。
It's just going to go away.。
Rather you win this final or not, rather you achieve whatever status you want to have,。
however many kids you want, or gain however much you want.。
Whether you're the CEO or the street cleaner, it really doesn't matter the moment you die.。
And so this brings us to our first point, which is don't live for the temporal, but。
live for the eternal.。
Now if we already know from the beginning that, well, if everything's temporal and all。
our happiness or sadness is going to go away anyways, why make a big fuss out of it?。
Of course, well, some people go to the other extreme.。
Then you know what?。
Let's just all sit here and wait to die.。
Okay, that doesn't benefit us either, does it?。
So you see, either we work and toil under the sun, that doesn't benefit.。
No gain, no jacksoap.。
Or we sit there and we wait to die.。
There's no benefit in that either.。
But what we see in the Bible is Matthew 16, 26, it says, "What good will it be for a man。
if he gains the whole world, yet forfeits his soul?"。
So it's an obvious comparison that even with all the riches, all the gains that we will。
have in this world, but if we lose our soul, there is no benefit, no jacksoap, it's hebel.。
So instead we must live now, not for now then.。
We must live now for the future.。
Let me say that again.。
We must not live now for now.。
We must live now for the future.。
It means that if we live for the temporal life, for money, fame, or whatever we want,。
we won't gain anything.。
But if we live for the eternal, we will gain everything.。
That is our soul, our eternal life.。
And so we do know that from the rest of the Bible, that if we have accepted Jesus, if。
we have repented of our sins, and if we continue to faithfully follow him, then we will have。
our soul, our life, our eternal life, which is the most important thing.。
Now if we go back to see Ecclesiastes chapter one, verse three, we see that.。
Let's look clearly again at this question.。
I mean, I only got three verses to work with, so I'm going to look clearly into each one.。
What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun?。
You know, we actually see the preacher saying under the sun 29 times in this book.。
What do you think that signifies?。
It means that if our eyes, I mean, it doesn't mean that if we do it on a rainy day, then。
everything's different.。
It just means that if we keep our eyes only in the temporal, then it's not going to benefit.。
But imagine this, what does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the heavens?。
Now that would be very different.。
You see, it's all a matter of whether God is in the equation or not.。
That is Hebel or it's gain.。
I want to share with you that Apostle Paul says in Philippians 121, "For to me, to live。
is Christ and to die is gain."。
Life for Christian is Christ.。
To hold him at the center, to imitate him, to trust him, to follow him.。
But there's actually any gain in our lives at all is actually lies in our death.。
Lies in our death.。
And that's death in this current time where you die to yourself and is also death when。
you die at the very end of your life.。
So this is no longer Hebel.。
So you see, Christians are supposed to go after Jexo.。
Actually, in fact, I would say we're the best at calculating the profits because we want。
eternal profits, not temporal ones.。
I mean, of course we want both.。
Let's just put it that way, but we get eternal ones.。
And so this is a lot of hope for us.。
I mean, for some of you who might be going through a job that gives you a lot of anguish,。
maybe your coworker misunderstands you and your boss mistreats you and you think about。
the temporal, I want to say, you're half dead because your coworker might never understand。
you.。
Your boss might never give you that promotion that you deserve.。
But if you live for eternal, what would that look like?。
What would you do in situations like that in light of eternity, in light of you being。
Christ?。
How would you treat your coworkers and how would you treat your boss?。
Your focus is no longer on their achievements or that promotion, but instead how to live。
out Christ.。
And if you do that, according to Apostle Paul, to die is to gain.。
And some of you might be going through a tough marriage or relationship.。
How do you respond in light of eternity?。
Instead of stonewalling or arguing, would you react in a way that is in light of eternity?。
How do you respect more or love more in a way that honors God?。
As a student, you might be struggling with study or vice versa.。
You're studying too much so that you just ignore everyone else or everything else.。
And so in light of eternity, what would you do?。
Now Stephen Curry, I hope that wakes up most of you, is an American professional basketball。
player for the Golden State Warrior.。
Now he's highly regarded as one of the greatest basketball players of all time.。
And he's most well known for his three point shooter.。
It's almost like he can throw a ball at anywhere, still gets it in, right?。
And he's been named the most valuable player twice.。
So now let's see him in a bit of action.。
Timeout, decide not to use it.。
Curry, way down to, bang, bang.。
Oh, what a shot from Curry.。
Curry splits the defense behind the back, fires a three.。
Oh, he puts it in.。
What a spectacular move.。
Timeout, Curry again.。
And Curry hits a three.。
It is amazing what Steph Curry can do with a basketball.。
All right, I know all of you want to watch a little bit more.。
But I thought I'd come back to this before I lose all of you.。
So Curry has been outspoken about his Christian faith.。
He spoke about his faith during the most valuable player speech by saying,。
"People should know who I represent and why I am who I am.。
And that's because of my Lord and Savior."。
And he also said that, "I do a little sign on the court every time I make a shoot or a good pass.。
And I pound my chest and point to the sky.。
It symbolizes that I have a heart for God.。
It's something that my mom and I came up with in college.。
And I do it every time I step on the floor as a reminder of who I'm playing for."。
Now, some of his Curry-1 basketball shoes--。
maybe some of you have it, or at least one person here should have it--。
is that there is a Lays loop that's scripted 4.13.。
It is a reference to the Bible verse Philippians 4.13,。
which reads, "I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me."。
And Curry also has a tattoo of the 1 Corinthians 13.8,。
where it says, "Love never fails," in Hebrew.。
Now, not only is he outspoken about his faith,。
but he actually displays it through his interaction with his teammates.。
Now, other team members have said, "You know, Curry doesn't want any special treatment.。
He doesn't ask for anything, even though he's such a great player,。
but he always passed the ball to other players whenever he could.。
And at the end of the game, he would always praise and honor them."。
Now, Steph Curry has definitely influenced many people and pointed them towards Jesus.。
Now, this is a photo of my nephew, Owen, in a Curry jersey doing his homework.。
I believe he's watching online right now in China.。
Hello, Owen.。
This is a bit of high.。
So I'm putting this up because it's cute, but also just to display。
that you can have immense influence on other people, just like Curry.。
Now, Curry said that it was actually his mom that led him and his siblings。
to have a relationship with God.。
And at the beginning of their faith, their mother actually took them to church。
every Wednesday and every Sunday.。
And at the same time, her mom would hold this Bible study at 6.30 every day。
before school, at 6.30 every day before school,。
for all those parents that are hearing this.。
And he says that his mom would pass on to the message to him over and over again,。
Romans 8, 28, "And we know that all things work together for the good of those。
who love God and to those who are called according to his purpose."。
So he knew that everything he did was for God's purpose,。
and he would do it with all his effort and might.。
And so he also said that, "I love basketball because it gives me the opportunity。
to do good things for people and to point them towards the man。
who died for our sins on the cross."。
And he also said, "I know I have a place in heaven waiting for me because of him,。
and that's something no earthly prize or trophy could ever top."。
Now, both lives of Curry and his mother exemplified someone。
who don't live for the temporal, who's living for eternal,。
who has put Christ at the center of their lives.。
Rather being a basketball player, rather being a mother,。
they're giving it all for Jesus, for God.。
To live is Christ.。
To die is gain.。
So today we go back to the question, "Is life worth living?"。
Well, the simple answer is, it is if you live for God,。
because you would have gained your soul and that you would receive eternal life。
and at the end be remembered by God and received from him,。
the best gain that you'll ever have.。
But at the same time, it is all just vanity.。
Toil under the sun if it's only under the sun,。
but if it's under heavens, then it is worth living.。
And so we always have to make a decision to live for now,。
the temporal for yourself, or to live for the eternal and for God.。
Now in a moment we'll be singing "Give Me Jesus" as a response song.。
Now part of the lyrics go like this, "Give me Jesus, give me Jesus.。
You can have all this world, but give me Jesus."。
And as you sing that song, I really want you to ponder on those words,。
because I want to say that, you know, these lyrics, they're romantic.。
You can say it almost during a vow.。
And it's almost, it sounds as spiritual as it gets.。
But do you really only want Jesus?。
I mean, how much time do you spend pondering about him each day?。
And when you bump into a problem,。
do you think how is it that you can live in light of eternity?。
Or are you still trying to figure out this thing?。
And you see, if Curry can play basketball for God,。
and his mother can teach his kids to be faithful to God,。
then certainly for us, whether we are students right now,。
whether we are wife and husband,。
whether we are mother or father,。
or whether we are single, or whether it's grandma, grandpa,。
or whether we are in our profession that we are in,。
we can and we should be living for God.。
And that is the gain that we will have.。
So I'll ask the band to come up and play some background music for us.。
And I just wanted us to take a moment, like take a minute or so,。
where we get a chance to speak to God.。
If you felt like you haven't been living your life with God as the center,。
you haven't been looking into the eternal things, but the temporal ones,。
I invite you at this time to really repent.。
Say to God, "Help me.。
Help me to put you first.。
Help me to keep my eyes on the eternal。
so that I might gain the most important thing in this world."。
So let's take a moment now, and I will do a rapid prayer。
before we sing the response song.。
(Whispering)。
(Praying)。
(Praying)。
(Piano playing)。
(Piano playing)。
(Piano playing)。
(Piano playing)。
(Piano playing)。
(Piano playing)。
(Piano playing)。
(Piano playing)。
Dear Heavenly Father,。
we pray that we won't be superficial Christians.。
And I don't think you have that word in your Bible.。
Father, we repent.。
There must be many times when we don't think about you,。
when we don't put you in the center of our lives,。
and we run as if all that matters is today.。
But we pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit continues to guide us,。
to mold us, to transform us,。
to look at what is the most important thing.。
We don't want to go through life。
and then just realize it's hebel, futile.。
We want to go through life,。
and in the end, know that we've gained,。
we've gained you, the most important person.。
So, Father, we lift up all our hearts to you.。
It isn't easy, but we pray that even with the distractions in life,。
that our hearts would always turn towards you。
in all the situations that we face,。
in all the places that you place us, Father.。
May you have all the honor and glory.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
