Good evening everyone, good to see you all.。
Hello everyone online, we miss you, we hope you're well and I hope to see you soon.。
We started this series on the church together and I absolutely love this series.。
So much has happened in Hong Kong in these last few years, right?。
And I truly believe the Lord is doing something to the church.。
A lot of it is pruning, a lot of it is purging, but something's happening.。
And the church, we have to change, we have to evolve in the way that we're doing church.。
We have to think about how are the times changing and how do we reach people with the gospel.。
But then there's also these things that we really shouldn't change.。
These things that should remain pillars of what it means to be church, to mean to be。
the ecclesia, which is a gathering of believers, an assembly of believers.。
And John last week gave us this picture of a chair with four legs.。
And these believers, they relied on these four legs.。
What were they?。
The apostles' teaching, fellowship, breaking of bread, prayers.。
And we're going to go through each one today.。
And the one we're going to go through is, the title I've been given for this is, it's。
the apostles' teaching, it is a word-rooted church.。
I'm talking about the first one, which is the apostles' teaching.。
We're talking about the Bible.。
And I'll be honest with you, I've had a really heavy heart preparing this.。
I'm actually very confused.。
I was like, how do I give a sermon about the Bible?。
How do I convince you?。
How do I encourage all of us?。
How do I inspire all of us to read the Bible?。
And then I thought, you know what?。
Jesus loves me, this I know for the Bible tells me so.。
And maybe I'll find a clever acronym to help people remember, B-I-B-L-E.。
Maybe that's the one.。
Maybe I'll try and think of a way to help you remember to read the Bible.。
How many of us read the Bible every day?。
Be proud, be proud, praise God.。
But yet it's so hard, right?。
Even those of us who read it every day, we realize it's a hard thing to do.。
So then I was on this side thinking, I couldn't think of an acronym, a clever one at least,。
to kind of help you remember.。
Then I saw on the other way, I'm like, you know what?。
Who am I to convince you about this word?。
This book is why we're here.。
Everything in this book is the reason that we need, everything is here.。
Why do I even need to say anything?。
I should just spend the next half an hour reading from the Bible.。
Because we're a word-rooted church, right?。
And you'll be pleased to know I'm not doing that, that would be lazy.。
You didn't pay to, actually you didn't pay to come here at all.。
But anyway, you didn't come to just see me read the Bible.。
Later, in the second half, I will.。
Because I feel that that's still the best way for us to be convinced about what this。
word is really about.。
But before that, I want to preface it, I want to give us a little bit of an introduction。
as to why this is important.。
Why did the early believers devote, devote, of one mind, focus on the apostles' teaching?。
What was it about?。
When did they do it?。
How did they do it?。
And why did they do it?。
So I'll spend the first half really talking about that, helping us understand a little。
bit about this, and then we will read, we will receive the word of the Lord together.。
Is that good?。
Okay, so, what is it?。
It's the apostles' teaching.。
The apostles' teaching is the Bible.。
What is that?。
I think the best example of this is in Acts 2, where Jesus, in Acts chapter 1, flies off。
to heaven and he says, "I'll be back."。
And then chapter 2, the Holy Spirit comes.。
The Holy Spirit comes and then Peter, obnoxious, arrogant Peter, impulsive Peter, suddenly。
is filled with the Spirit and he stands up.。
And he stands up and he delivers a speech.。
He delivers the speech for the ages.。
It's called a kerygma.。
What is this kerygma?。
You'll see in Acts 2.。
It's not short, but it's basically his first attempt at proclaiming the gospel.。
The kerygma is basically a proclamation of the gospel.。
It's about the life and the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ.。
That would be called the apostles' teaching.。
The apostle Peter, teaching.。
But what was he doing in that kerygma?。
He was opening up the Word.。
What was he reading in the Word?。
He was reading the Old Testament.。
Remember, when Peter was preaching, he wasn't preaching from the book of Acts.。
He was the book of Acts.。
The book of Acts is basically the book of the Acts of the apostles.。
That's what it's about.。
So he's looking at the Old Testament.。
Now the Old Testament is hard.。
I'll confess, the Old Testament is hard to understand.。
It's hard to read sometimes.。
And yet he was opening the Old Testament.。
He was looking at the book of Joel.。
He was looking at Psalms and he was saying, "Guys, this Old Testament that we've read。
all of our lives, you know what it's about?。
It's about Jesus.。
Everything that is prophesied in the Old Testament is fulfilled in Jesus Christ.。
All the problems of mankind that we see in the Old Testament, and there are plenty, even。
from the best ones, the solution is in Jesus.。
So he, when he was opening the book, he was looking at the Old Testament and he was saying,。
"Guys, this here is truth."。
And it wasn't just the Old Testament.。
Actually in the early church, especially in the first few centuries, they were also reading。
letters to each other.。
The letters that Paul was writing to the churches, the letters that Peter was writing, the letters。
that James was writing.。
At the beginning of James it says, "To the twelve tribes in the dispersion," they were。
writing letters, these epistles, writing them to the church, a gathering just like this.。
And what would the person do when they gather?。
They would open up the letter or they would take open the letter and they would read it。
out to people.。
That would be what they would do.。
That's what it meant when it said they would be devoted to the apostles' teaching.。
It was opening up the word.。
That is really it and that is what it is.。
So when would they like to read it?。
When?。
All the time.。
You have to remember something.。
In the Greco-Roman culture at that time, reading was a very important part of culture.。
If you went to a dinner party, if you went to someone's home to have dinner at their。
place, you would eat and then what would happen?。
Towards the end of the evening, the host likely would stand up and they would give a reading.。
Those of us who have come from maybe more traditional schools will be very used to this.。
Reading was a big part of culture back then and they wouldn't read the Bible necessarily。
if they weren't followers of Christ.。
They would read Plato's writings, they would read Homer's writings, but they would read.。
And then Paul was telling the believers here, "Read Scripture."。
In 1 Timothy 4, he's talking to his mentee, Timothy, who was probably around the same。
age as I am now, leading his own church in Ephesus, and he was saying in 1 Timothy 4,。
"Devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture."。
It's important.。
Devote yourself to it.。
Do it all the time.。
Colossians 3.16 says, "May the message of Christ dwell among you richly.。
May it surround you."。
So it was something that was done all the time.。
Why?。
Because they had this incredibly high regard for Scripture.。
Did you know that it would be considered a serious offence if someone came here and opened。
up the book in the early church and read, but misread some Scripture?。
It would be hugely offensive.。
Why?。
Because that was the truth of God.。
The other reason why is most people couldn't read at that time.。
Most people didn't have a Bible.。
And so what was read from the pulpit, what was read in the gathering, was of huge importance。
because what was being read and what was being listened to, that would be it.。
People didn't have smartphones.。
People didn't have WhatsApp.。
People didn't have, "Oh, I'll send you this article later."。
None.。
It's basically, "We're all sitting here now and we're all reading and we're receiving。
the truth together."。
And this was important because imagine this church here.。
We were an early church gathering.。
Outside there would be persecution happening.。
We'd have probably had to jump through quite a few hoops, been quite subtle, to get into。
this place to even gather, to make sure that the authorities outside wouldn't be chasing。
us.。
And within the church there was also division.。
People were arguing about truth.。
People were going, "No, that's not right.。
That's not right."。
There was Gnosticism happening.。
There was false heresy happening.。
So even within a room like this, there'd be people who were arguing over the truth, which。
is why the first song we sang, the Creed, that's where it came from.。
People were like, "You know what?。
There's been so much arguing.。
There's been so much discussion.。
Let us just write down the things that we actually believe so there is no debate."。
And so you can see how important it was for people to be devoted to this book, to listening。
to it, because without it, they would lose their sense of center.。
Do you get that?。
It provided them with the historical context of what actually happened.。
They didn't have Wikipedia, so it would be from listening that they would find out, they。
would remember what actually happened.。
It would give them their doctrinal center where they actually knew what they believed.。
They were devoted to this communal immersion of Scripture.。
But we've gone very far away from that now, haven't we?。
I mean, actually, I really treasure the times that we read Scripture here in church, but。
on the most part, we read the Bible on our own, right?。
We've transitioned away from the communal immersion of Scripture, and we've gone to。
read on our own.。
And sometimes, instead of reading the Bible, what do we read?。
We read devotionals that help us understand the Bible.。
We read books to help to talk about the Bible, right?。
And has that actually worked?。
Research shows that not really.。
We don't know the word anymore.。
But yet, this is the most important part.。
John gave us this example of this four-legged chair, and I think it's right, these four。
pillars of the church.。
I've got another analogy here, which is like a three-legged stool.。
A three-legged stool, and there would be fellowship, there would be breaking of bread, and there。
would be prayers, and the word would be that.。
Do you know that in those three-legged stools, there'd be that kind of round bar that holds。
those three legs together?。
I see that's what the Word of God is.。
That it's based on the Word of God that you can have fellowship, that you can have breaking。
of bread and worship, that you can have prayers.。
It's based on truth, because without this, we have nothing.。
That is how important it is, yet we have strayed so far, so far from it.。
And the consequences are pretty dire.。
They're pretty serious, both in a private and a public sense of expressing faith.。
Privately, we no longer really know how we fit into the big story.。
Why?。
Because when we open Scripture, we snack.。
Now, it's okay at the very beginning, but later on, you have to start feeding yourself.。
You have to start understanding the bigger story.。
What it has done, by us stopping to read Scripture together as a whole, we are now completely。
unfamiliar with the big story.。
We snack.。
We look at Jeremiah 29, and we write it on a fridge magnet, and we go, "Oh, for I know。
the plans He has for me, to prosper me, and it's going to be all nice and happy for me."。
We look at Joshua 1.9, "Be strong and courageous, for the Lord your God is with you."。
I have a lion next to me.。
I can be strong and courageous.。
Psalm 23, "The Lord is my shepherd.。
I can lie and just chill by a lake, by still waters, and it's all good for me."。
John 3.16, "God so loved me that He gave His only Son."。
Romans 8, "If God can be for me, who can be against me?。
Nothing can separate me from the love of God."。
And there, so we snack.。
We take all these things, and we're like, "Oh, it's all about us.。
It's all about us.。
It's all about us."。
We're snacking, all the while recognizing that we have missed the feast that is this。
whole story.。
And I apologize to you as a shepherd of the flock, as a pastor here.。
I don't think we give this enough justice.。
I rely on my acronyms.。
I rely on my jokes.。
I rely on my stories to help you remember this word, when all I actually really should。
be doing is showing you this, because this is enough.。
And so what does it mean to be a word-rooted church?。
Is that, do we have the sustained discipline and attention to go through the Word of God,。
recognizing how valuable it is to us, and allowing this to speak for itself?。
And yet so often for church, and us pastors fall guilty of this, we try to entertain you.。
Are you not entertained by our singing and dancing and acronyms?。
I'm a big basketball fan, as you know, and I've been watching the NBA playoffs.。
And I don't know who else has been watching the NBA playoffs.。
If you watch a whole game, you are subject to the most incredible entertainment show.。
I don't know if you watch it, there's timeouts, and there's the world's jump rope skipping。
champion is in the timeout, who's showing you how they can do that.。
And then over here, it's like, oh, the champion of the chin balancing competition, I didn't。
realize, and he balanced the table on his chin.。
And the whole thing, I was like, wow, this entertainment is incredible.。
It's nonstop.。
You just sit here, just being fed and fed and fed and fed.。
And it's every few seconds, something's happening.。
And I realized, man, are we guilty of that for church?。
That we've trained all of us to just be fed all this stuff and these snacks and these。
sound bites.。
But truth is, when it comes to scripture, there is no shortcut.。
John asked this question just before this, and he said, is Jesus the center?。
I had another question for myself.。
If suddenly all the Bibles in this church vanished, would we still be able to do church?。
I asked myself that question.。
And you know what the terrifying thing is?。
I was like, I think we could put on a few great songs, open the doors, have someone。
come out and give some nice self-help kind of advice.。
Like, feel good about yourself, you guys are all loved and treasured.。
I think we could probably get away with running church for quite a long time without the Bible。
at all.。
And that terrifies me, because that's not what we're about.。
And then I posed that question to myself.。
James, if tomorrow you wake up and this Bible, someone stole your Bible, would you be able。
to still live?。
Would it change your life at all?。
So I asked you that question.。
If suddenly the Bible app was deleted from your phone and you lost your Bible, would。
it change your life at all?。
Be honest, you don't need to tell me, just be honest.。
Sometimes I fear it won't change.。
If anything, the only thing that will change is that we'll feel less guilty about not reading。
the Bible.。
Oh, we don't have the Bible anyway, so we don't have to read it.。
But if this is really what it is saying it is, Jesus says in Matthew 4,4, "Man shall。
not live on bread alone, but by the words that come out of the mouth of God."。
He's saying that the Bible is more important than carbs, more important than bread, more。
important than fries and spaghetti and pasta.。
But do we treat it as such?。
We eat carbs every day, we eat bread every day, but do we read the Bible every day?。
So that's what it is, that's when it was read and how it was read, but why was it important?。
Well, I don't know how much more I can tell, but this is the Word of God.。
2 Timothy 3 says, "All Scripture is," what?。
"breathed out by God."。
Just pause for a second.。
This book, even Leviticus, is breathed out by God Almighty Himself.。
You know, there's stories around the world where people don't have access to this and。
they are just yearning for it.。
You know, actually the Jewish culture, they were so used to this communal immersion that。
many communities from a very young age, from when children are six, they would start memorizing。
the Torah.。
Do we know what the Torah is?。
The Torah is the first five books of the Bible.。
So from six, if you see my daughter running around, she's five years old.。
So next year, she's going to the synagogue and she's memorizing the Torah.。
How many of us even know which order the first five books go in?。
And by the age of ten.。
So Reuben's nine, my older one is nine.。
So next year, when he's ten, he will have memorized the whole Torah.。
The whole thing.。
And yet we've come so far from it.。
This is the Word of God, how valuable it is.。
In England, in our family home, there's a drawer and it's still there.。
There's this old Philips mobile phone.。
We bought it in 2002.。
All other phones, the Nokia 3210s, they're all gone.。
We've passed them on or thrown them or something.。
But this one phone that we keep.。
The screen is about this big.。
It's blue, it's navy blue.。
It's about this big, a little antenna that comes out and then just the keypad.。
We've kept that phone.。
Why?。
Because on that phone, it was my mum's phone.。
And a week or two before my dad passed away, he was messaging her and he was messaging。
her a really lovely, sentimental message.。
And so we've kept it.。
To this day, it's there.。
And actually, when we go back home, I'll likely bring it out and have a look at it again.。
Why?。
Because it is valuable to us.。
Because we recognise, "Man, those were my dad's words.。
He typed those words to us, to my mum."。
And yet we don't hold this in a similar regard.。
This is God's love story for us.。
And yet we spend most of our days just feeling guilty about not reading it and just forcing。
ourselves to read like two verses.。
And then we wonder why we're unfamiliar with the big story.。
When we're surprised that we don't know how to live out our lives in this world right。
now, all Scripture is breathed out by God, profitable for correcting, teaching, rebuking,。
training, equipping us for every good work.。
That's what 2 Timothy 3 says.。
The point of Scripture is that we would be equipped, that we would know how to live in。
this world, that we would be equipped for every good work.。
Because here's the other problem.。
For those of us who are really good at reading Scripture, that we are just devout to it,。
we are almost religious in reading Scripture.。
And actually there are some great programmes around.。
BSF is one of them, right?。
A great way to learn Scripture, even what Johnny was telling us about Ethan.。
It's a great start, isn't it?。
Just to learn Scripture.。
But you see, when it comes to Scripture, the point of it isn't just to fill our heads with。
knowledge.。
The Apostle Paul says, "Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up."。
The point is, how do we then use this to be equipped for every good work?。
How do we use this to show us how to navigate this broken world right now?。
That is what we're supposed to be using it for.。
Every time we read the Word of God, it demands a response.。
It demands action.。
It demands something in us has to change.。
Because if this is the Word of God, if this is written by the guy who created this world,。
then we take it seriously.。
The book of James says in chapter 122, "Let us be doers of the Word and not just hearers."。
Because if you say you believe, but you don't do anything with it, if you say you read the。
Bible, but you don't really respond to it, then your faith is dead.。
Whereas in Hebrews 4.12, it says, "The Word of God is living, is active, sharper than。
any double-edged sword."。
What can it do?。
It can pierce to the depths of your soul.。
If you allow it, if you open your heart when you read this book, it will tell you things。
about you that even you don't know about yourself.。
And then it will demand a response.。
That is what this book is about.。
But unfortunately, we rely on self-help tips.。
We rely on philosophy.。
We rely on sociology.。
We rely on psychology.。
We rely on all these different things when actually everything that we need.。
Scripture is the only reliable guide for us to navigate this world.。
So my goal today is to hopefully remind us of that.。
Remind us of that and encourage us to dive deep into this Word, knowing that it's not。
easy, but knowing that we are supposed to do it.。
And if you're not finding it easy, or if you don't know the Word, then I apologize to you。
because then we've done you injustice.。
That you've come into this church family and that we've not been rooted enough in this。
Word.。
And so that's a little bit about Scripture, about the Word of God.。
And I'll move into the second part where we'll actually open up the Word now and we'll read。
some.。
Because when we're talking about lacking sustained attention, I realize that I am the worst of。
them all.。
It's really hard to keep going in Scripture.。
And I'll tell you a little bit, these few months have been really hard, right?。
And a couple of weeks ago I shared about my emotional health, that it's not been great.。
And in January, I had that.。
When everything was kicking off, when things were just getting bad, I was telling God,。
"You know what, I'm just so done.。
So done with just all of this."。
And I remember going on a retreat with Him and I was just sat there like, "I have nothing。
to say to you.。
And you clearly don't really have much to say to me.。
So we're just going to sit in silence and we're going to have a staring contest.。
And that's it.。
It's going to be a good day.。
We'll just leave it at that."。
I felt compelled to open up His Word.。
And for the first time, and again, you can judge me for this if you want to, for this。
first time I read through, actually no, when Christina and I first dated when we were 18。
and 19, we actually read through the whole Bible together, cover to cover, every day.。
That was really surprising and impressive.。
I don't remember any of it.。
But anyway, because the whole objective was to impress her.。
So it worked, right?。
So in January, for the first time ever, we have nothing else to say.。
I just opened up the scripture and I started reading.。
And I read through the whole book of Philippians for the first time in one go.。
And I was like, "I've never done that before."。
My favorite basketball player, Steph Curry, his favorite verse is Philippians 4.13.。
"I can do all things through Him who strengthens me."。
He writes it on his shoes.。
I know that verse.。
I know a couple of other verses.。
But to see it all in one go blew my mind.。
It blew my mind because it changed the way I saw life.。
It changed the way I saw everything and I wanted to give you a glimpse of that today.。
And I want to ask you, as you hear me read scripture, and we'll pray in a minute before。
I do it, I want you to notice a few things.。
Paul was writing this letter to the church in Philippi, which is the first ever church。
in Europe.。
He was writing towards the end of his life and he was in prison with no idea whether。
he would be able to get out this time.。
This could be it.。
He could be done.。
And he's writing to this church there in Philippi and I want you to notice a few things as we。
read it.。
I want you to notice how he yearns for his brothers and sisters, how he just wants to。
be with them.。
I want you to notice how he feels about prison, how he feels about life.。
And then we sang a few songs, actually.。
Well done, Florence, for choosing those songs, where you get to see how Paul perceives the。
world, the things that are valuable in this world.。
And you get to see how he navigates all that and how he finishes.。
And so I pray as I read through this scripture and that we would absorb this, we would let。
this Holy Spirit minister to us himself as I open up the Word of God.。
And I pray, and I will pray now.。
Let's just pray.。
Lord, as we open up your Word, as we recognize how valuable it is, that it is breathed out,。
inspired by you, given to us to equip us for every good work, to equip us to show us how。
to live so we wouldn't just be hearers, but we would be doers.。
And I pray that as I read this letter that Paul wrote to Philippi, this letter that really。
speaks into our hearts, this letter is about rejoicing whilst being in prison.。
May it remind us to find joy whilst living in Hong Kong.。
And Holy Spirit, I know that we can't even understand your words without you.。
You are the one who reveals, you are the one who teaches the mysteries of God.。
And so I thank you that you're here, I welcome you being here, and I pray that as I read。
these words from this precious, precious book, we as a church would be rooted in your teachings。
and we would be sensitive to your Spirit.。
We thank you, Lord, for this.。
It's in your name we pray.。
Amen.。
Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are。
at Philippi, to the overseers and deacons, grace to you and peace from God our Father。
and the Lord Jesus Christ.。
I thank my God in all my remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all,。
making my prayer with joy because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day。
until now.。
And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion。
at the day of Christ.。
I am right to feel this way about you all because I hold you in my heart, for you are。
all partakers with me of grace, both in my imprisonment and in the defence and confirmation。
of the gospel.。
For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus.。
And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment。
so that you may approve what is excellent and be pure and blameless at the day of Christ,。
that you'd be filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ.。
So the glory and praise of God.。
I want you to know brothers, what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel。
so that it has become known throughout the whole imperial guard and to all the rest that。
my imprisonment is for Christ.。
And most of the brothers, having become confident by my imprisonment, are much more bold to。
speak the word without fear.。
Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, others out of goodwill.。
The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defence of the gospel.。
The former proclaim Christ from envy, selfish ambition, not sincerely but thinking to afflict。
me in my imprisonment.。
What then?。
Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed.。
And in that, I rejoice.。
Yes, I will rejoice for I know that through your prayers and the help of the spirit of。
Jesus Christ, this will turn out for my deliverance as it is my eager expectation and hope that。
I will not at all be ashamed but that with full courage now, Christ as always will be。
honoured in my body, whether by life or by death.。
For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain.。
If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labour for me.。
At which I shall choose, I can't tell.。
I am hard pressed between the two.。
My desire is to be with Christ for that is far better.。
But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.。
Convinced of this, I know I will remain and continue with you all in your progress and。
joy in the faith so that in me, you would have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus.。
Because of my coming again to you only, let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel。
of Christ.。
So whether I am to come and see or am absent, I may hear of you standing firm in one spirit。
with one mind, striving side by side for the faith of the gospel, not frightened in anything。
by your opponents.。
This is a clear sign of their destruction but of your salvation and that from God.。
For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ, that you would not only believe。
in him but would suffer for his sake.。
Engage in the same conflict that you saw that I had and now hear that I still have.。
So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in。
the spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of one mind, having the same。
love, being in full accord and of one mind.。
Do nothing from selfish ambition and conceit but consider others more significant than。
yourself.。
Let each of you look not only to his own interests but also to the interests of others.。
Have this mind among yourselves which is yours in Christ Jesus, who though he was in the。
form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped but emptied himself.。
Taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men and being found in human。
form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross.。
Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name so。
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth。
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord.。
To the glory of God the Father.。
For my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only as in my presence but much。
more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.。
For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure.。
Do all things without grumbling or disputing so that you'll be blameless and innocent,。
children of God without blemish in the midst of this crooked and twisted generation among。
whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life so that in the day。
of Christ that I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labour in vain.。
Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith,。
I am glad and rejoice with you all.。
Likewise you also should be glad and rejoice with me.。
I hope in the Lord to send Timothy to you soon so that I may rejoice at hearing about。
you, for I have no one like him who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare, for。
they all seek their own interests and not of Jesus Christ.。
But you know Timothy's proven worth, how as a son with a father he served with me in。
the gospel.。
I hope therefore to send him to you just as soon as I see how it will go with me, and。
I hope in the Lord that I shortly can come also.。
I thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and my fellow worker and my fellow。
soldier, your messenger and minister to my need.。
Fear has been longing for you all, but he has been distressed because you heard he was。
ill.。
Indeed he was ill, near to death.。
But God had mercy on him, but not only on him, but also on me, lest I should have sorrow。
upon sorrow.。
And the more eager therefore to send him to you, so that you may rejoice at seeing him。
again and that I may be less anxious.。
So receive him in the Lord with all joy.。
And he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking。
in your service to me.。
Bear with me, we're here, we're halfway through.。
Finally brothers, rejoice in the Lord.。
To write the same things to you is of no trouble to me and is safe for you.。
Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh,。
for we are the circumcision who worship by the Spirit of God, who glory in Christ Jesus。
and put no confidence in the flesh.。
Though I myself actually have reason for confidence in the flesh also.。
If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more.。
Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew。
of Hebrews, as to the law, a Pharisee, as to the righteousness, a zeal, a persecutor。
of the church, as to righteousness under the law, blameless.。
But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ.。
Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ。
Jesus my Lord.。
For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order。
that I may gain Christ and be found in him.。
Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through。
faith in Christ, a righteousness of God that depends on faith, that I may know him and。
the power of his resurrection, may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death。
and by any means possible attaining the resurrection from the dead.。
Not that I've already obtained this or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it。
my own because Christ Jesus made me his own.。
Stop.。
Brothers, I don't consider I've made it my own, but one thing I do.。
Forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward。
the goal for the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.。
Let those of us who are mature think this way and if anything you think otherwise, let。
God reveal that also to you.。
Only let us hold true to what we have attained.。
Brothers, join in imitating me and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example。
that you have in us.。
For many, as I've often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the。
cross of Christ.。
Their end is destruction.。
Their God is their belly.。
Their glory in their shame.。
Their minds set on earthy things, but our citizenship is in heaven and from it we await。
a saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious。
body by the power that enables him to subject all things to himself.。
Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm in the Lord,。
my beloved.。
I entreat you Odier and Sintek to agree in the Lord.。
Yes, I also ask you, help these women who have laboured side by side with me in the。
gospel together with Clement and the rest of the fellow workers whose names are in the。
book of life.。
You recognise this, Peter?。
Rejoice in the Lord.。
Again, I will say rejoice.。
Let your reasonableness be known to everyone.。
The Lord is at hand.。
Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving。
let your requests be made known to God and the peace of God which surpasses all understanding。
will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.。
Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honourable, whatever is just, whatever。
is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is anything of excellence,。
if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things.。
What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practise these things and。
the God of peace will be with you.。
I rejoice greatly now that you have revived your concern for me.。
At length.。
You were indeed concerned, but you had no opportunity.。
Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned that in whatever situation。
I am to be content.。
I know how to be brought low.。
I know how to abound.。
In any and every circumstance I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance。
and need.。
I can do all things through him who strengthens me.。
Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble.。
And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel when I left Macedonia。
no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only.。
Even in Thessalonica you sent help for my needs.。
And I am well supplied.。
I have received full payment and more, having received from Epaphroditus the gift that you。
sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God.。
And my God will supply every need of yours according to the riches of his glory in Christ。
Jesus, to our God the Father be glory forever and ever.。
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus.。
All the brothers who are with me greet you.。
All the saints greet you.。
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.。
This is the word of the Lord.。
Amen.。
I don't know how you found that.。
It may have been hard.。
It may have allowed you to start nodding off.。
And that's okay.。
It really is.。
But don't stay here.。
Don't stay where you are right now.。
Don't navigate this world without this.。
Hang on it's every word.。
Push your church.。
Push me.。
Push John.。
Push Johnny.。
Push Michelle.。
To open up the word of God to you.。
Because this is the only reliable guide.。
This is the only thing that we can hang on in this dark world where truth is going missing.。
And brothers and sisters we have this truth right here on our apps.。
In multiple apps.。
But I don't want to finish us there and just leave it there.。
If you feel that actually you want to do more with the Bible but you just don't know where。
to start I want to give you some handles just to hold on to.。
The Apostle Peter was a changed man in Acts 2 before he delivered the gospel.。
Why?。
Because of the Holy Spirit.。
So if you're thinking what do I need to do to read the Bible?。
To understand the Bible?。
I encourage you.。
The first thing is this.。
There's actually two people you need to talk to.。
Okay?。
Let's just leave with two action points here.。
Number one, talk to the Holy Spirit.。
Pray to him.。
Every time you open up his word just go, "I'm lost with this.。
I'm confused with this book."。
If you're real and if this is truth, show me.。
Number one, pray to the Holy Spirit and ask him to open this up to you.。
Number two, find someone real like human flesh right next to you.。
Read it together.。
We are a word rooted church.。
We're supposed to open up the word of God together.。
We're supposed to devote ourselves to the public teaching of scripture.。
So find one person.。
That's all you need.。
One person and say, "You know what?。
Something happened to me this evening that I think I need this truth."。
Find that one person and just say, "Can you read with me?。
Can you hold me accountable?。
Can we just message each other every day and just say, 'Have we read one chapter together?'"。
Whatever it may be, don't let anything stop you because this is truth.。
Because this is what will help you get you through life.。
This is what our church should be based on.。
It is what we should be rooted on.。
Amen?。
Amen.。
Let's pray.。
Father, we come before you and we are just grateful that you would leave us this word.。
Your word is a lamp to our feet and a light unto our path.。
Your word is like honey on our lips.。
So use it, Lord.。
Use it to pierce through the very depths of our souls and use it to equip us for every。
good work.。
Forgive us that we neglect it, sometimes mistreat it, sometimes we just forget.。
Lord, we thank you that your grace and your patience abounds.。
And you know that we can't do this on our own.。
So we pray, one, for your Holy Spirit to shine that light unto us when we read, when we go。
through the hard books, when we find things that we don't understand, your Holy Spirit,。
would you read it with us?。
Would you open up your word with us?。
And second, Lord, can you bind us together as one?。
Would you show us the people that you've placed around us who we can do this with together?。
We're not supposed to do this on our own.。
We are supposed to be a church together.。
And so Lord, we plead, we pray that we would be a church that is rooted in your word.。
In your name I pray, amen.。
