It was quite an exam.。
It felt like an exam coming back to Hong Kong.。
It felt like, oh, I had to pass these tests and these tests to move on.。
And I was racing with Agnes and Vincent to see who would come in first, you know, on this exam.。
And it was quite an adventure, you know, landing at 11.30 p.m.。
And arriving at the hotel five hours later.。
And it was quite a journey.。
And I'm glad that God has brought me back safe.。
And I'm glad to be able to preach with you tonight as well.。
And so let us pray together.。
And we're going to start today's sermon.。
Father, we thank you for this time that we can listen to your word.。
And we just ask that, Lord, you would fill me with the spirit that I would preach you, preach your word according to your spirit.。
And I pray that, Lord, you would be with everyone here as well, that you would open their eyes and their ears and that spirit would speak to them personally tonight.。
In Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
All right.。
So I don't know if you've heard of BFF, right?。
When I was small and I was young, small and young, yes, I've always wanted to have a BFF, right?。
When you were growing up in secondary school, everybody had a BFF, right?。
And the thing was, I'm an only child.。
So because I'm an only child, my communication skills and making friends, I wasn't as fluid as I am now.。
It doesn't mean basketball fan forever.。
It can mean that.。
Thank you, Mark.。
But I wanted to have a BFF.。
Everybody around me was having BFFs.。
Even uncool people were having BFFs, all right?。
And so I wanted to have a BFF.。
And it wasn't until like maybe like when I was 12 or 13, I started learning how to listen to people, care for people, how to, you know, make jokes and really just communicate.。
That's when I started to have best friends.。
And I thought, whoa, it's so cool to have a best friend, to have connection with people.。
And Melanie Trump, not Melanie Trump, Melinda Gates says this, deep human connection is the purpose and result of a meaningful life.。
And it will inspire the most amazing acts of love, generosity, and humanity.。
And this was a picture of us.。
You see how happy JP is in this photo.。
We did this photo in the Philippines, actually.。
And it was one of our -- before we left, we wanted a nice photo together.。
And this was showing our connection together.。
And God created us for connection.。
When he first created us, when he first created Adam, he had a personal relationship with him, a personal connection with him.。
He was made in God's image.。
And we are also made in God's image.。
And we have this connection with the Lord, not just with others and humans around us, but with God himself, a spiritual connection.。
And not only did God create a relationship with him, a connection with him, but he also created marriage.。
Right?。
Adam and Eve, they married.。
And then they had a child.。
And Adam and Eve, they married.。
And they became one.。
The two became one flesh.。
And from there, from marriage, became a family.。
And when Jesus came, he started the church.。
And the church family came about.。
And there's a church connection, a church family in your clans.。
You're connecting together.。
When we're here in fellowship, we're connecting together.。
When we're praying after the service, we're connecting together.。
And there's also connection outside of the church.。
And that is in our society with our friends as well.。
Connection provides us intimacy, support, and promotes sharing.。
When we have healthy relationships, right, when we have a healthy marriage, that creates the stability for a healthy marriage, for a healthy family.。
And that healthy family helps to create the building blocks for a healthy church together.。
And this healthy church helps to create a connection for a healthy society and a healthy country.。
Healthy relationships produce fruit.。
Healthy relationships produce fruit.。
And we see what happens in Genesis chapter 3.。
When this relationship with God was broken, when Adam and Eve sinned, what happened?。
What was the result?。
They hid themselves, right?。
Like some of you guys are hiding on Zoom right now.。
You're hiding.。
I'm joking.。
I'm sure there's nothing to be ashamed of.。
What happened was Adam and Eve, they hid themselves because they were naked, because they felt guilty.。
They thought that, oh, no, God would be unhappy.。
And they hid themselves.。
They isolated themselves.。
And there was a disconnection.。
And this disconnection is what we in Christianity call sin.。
Sin separates us from God because we choose to go our own way, because we choose to have things that are other than what God wants for us.。
We have sin.。
And that separates us from a perfect, holy, loving God.。
And when this connection fails, there is unhealthy fruit in our lives.。
Unhealthy fruit in our lives.。
And we see this need for connection over these two years especially, right?。
Because we have been having COVID.。
And the need for connection is even greater.。
And that's why it's so amazing that we have technology like Zoom to allow us to still connect.。
And Jesus also promises us connection.。
And we thank you, Bonnie, for reading this for us before.。
That Jesus says, I am the true vine and the Father is the gardener.。
He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit.。
While every branch that does bear fruit, he prunes so that it will be even more fruitful.。
Why does Jesus say here that he is the true vine?。
Why does it say he is the true vine?。
It's because earlier God also sent a vine.。
And that was the vine of Israel.。
Right?。
In Psalms chapter 80, it says this.。
You transplanted a vine from Egypt.。
You drove out the nations and planted it.。
You cleared the ground for it.。
And it took root.。
And it filled the land.。
The problem with this vine was that later it sinned.。
It went against God.。
It went its own separate way.。
And that is why Jesus says he is the true vine.。
It was a new vine that was needed, a new covenant that was needed.。
And that came through Jesus Christ, this new covenant.。
And Jesus challenges us here.。
It says here before, right?。
I am the vine.。
You are the branches.。
If you remain in me and I remain in you, you will bear much fruit.。
If you remain apart from me, you can do nothing.。
And when does Jesus say this?。
This was when during the last supper, Judas had went out and he was already。
planning to betray Jesus with three silver coins.。
And what was left was him with his disciples.。
And he says this to them.。
That he is the vine.。
And that you guys, the branches, the disciples are the branches.。
Remain in me.。
And I will remain in you.。
And Jesus says this word remain.。
Or in other translations, it's abide.。
It means find a home.。
To find a relationship.。
To find a relationship, dependence on Jesus Christ.。
And Jesus invites us into a deep unity and communication.。
Community found in the Trinity.。
God is love.。
Right?。
And if God is love, it means because he has relationships to love.。
God is love because God in the Trinity is perfect in relationship.。
Perfect in love.。
And God invites us to connect back to him.。
Through Jesus Christ.。
And so how do we remain in Jesus?。
How do we remain in Jesus?。
Remaining in Jesus will take away this problem of sin and reunite us with Christ, with God once again.。
And that we would have peace with God once again.。
The first thing he mentions is this.。
That the father is the gardener.。
The father is the gardener.。
And what does the father do?。
He takes care of every branch in me that bears no fruit.。
Has anybody had a plant before?。
Has anybody had a plant before?。
Raise your arms.。
Yeah?。
Paul has had one.。
Melanie?。
How did the plants do?。
Did they survive?。
Did they survive or did they wither?。
If you went to my office, I love orchids.。
And Mark is raising his virtual hand as well.。
If you went to my office, I used to have orchid there.。
And I love orchids.。
I think they're beautiful.。
And eventually, you know, I wasn't at the office to water them every week or I don't even know how much you're supposed to water them.。
So I was a bad gardener.。
You know?。
I was a bad gardener.。
And these orchids died.。
And the thing is, even though we're bad gardeners, Jesus says the first thing here is the father is the gardener.。
And he isn't a gardener that's going to forget about the tree or the vine.。
He's not going to be a gardener that over feeds or over fertilizes so that, you know, the tree, I don't know, goes chaotic.。
And if you fertilize too much, it dies as well.。
The father is the gardener.。
And that is our first comfort.。
That is Jesus' first comfort, that he takes care of us.。
And how does he take care of us?。
There's a process called pruning.。
Okay?。
There's a process called pruning.。
And if you guys don't know what pruning is, well, you remove some of the branches.。
You see here in the diagram here, you remove some of the branches that sort of take away from the nutrients of the big branch.。
Right?。
So it could be removing short little branches that aren't productive.。
It could be removing dead or broken limbs from the trees that aren't going to produce any fruit as well.。
It could be removing, you know, a single trunk that is not going to be productive or sprouts in the bottom.。
I remember I went to high school one day, and my gym teacher brought this whole big basket of peaches.。
And the peaches was like this big.。
And I ate into it, and it was so fruitful.。
And everybody, just imagine eating the most fruitful, juicy, sweet peach that they've ever had.。
Okay?。
It could look like one of those really expensive Japanese ones, but they were from Ontario.。
And my gym teacher was telling us, "These peaches, I grew them.。
I own a farm, and I have this big hose, and I shoot water from my pond, and I water my peach trees, and then I do a process called pruning."。
And so he has this branch, and he was like, "I go like this.。
I literally do this, and I take out the little sprouts that aren't going to be productive, that take away from the nutrients from the trunk, so that the branches that are productive will have these big, juicy, sweet, amazing peaches, the best peaches I've ever had."。
And that is the first thing that Jesus promises us.。
How do we abide in Christ?。
How do we remain with him?。
We need to trust that the Father is the gardener, and the gardener will prune and take away the things in our life that are unfruitful, that are unfruitful.。
And I remember when I was growing up, you know, when I was growing up, I was this kid that just wanted to have fun.。
If you couldn't keep up, I would leave you behind.。
For example, if we were hiking, and you couldn't keep up, I would see you later, all right?。
I wouldn't be that shepherd that waits for you, you know, that makes sure you're okay.。
Do you have enough water?。
Oh, did you get hurt?。
Let's wait a little bit.。
No, I'm off to have fun.。
But Jesus started pruning the selfishness within me.。
Jesus says, "Love me.。
Love others before yourself."。
And so I started caring about others.。
I started concerning myself with others.。
As I got to know God more, he gave me self-control.。
He took away the things that I couldn't control, that fun, you know, that I couldn't control.。
He gave me self-control.。
He pruned some of the things in my life, this selfishness that I couldn't control.。
He pruned it away so that I would be more faithful, so that I would care about others.。
I would place myself before others.。
So the first thing that Jesus says is that he has a father.。
That is the gardener.。
And this gardener takes care of this vine.。
The second thing that Jesus says is that we need to keep the word of God.。
You are already clean because of the word I've spoken to you.。
If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.。
Keep the word of God.。
The word of the Lord endures forever.。
The word of the Lord endures forever.。
I was, you know, attending the University of YouTube, the University of YouTube, and it talked about this thing that was like, oh, if you do visualization, then you can become even more successful.。
You know, the University of YouTube, it just keeps playing videos after videos after videos, right?。
And so I was like, this is pretty cool.。
It talked about the reticular activating system.。
And what that is is that it filters out information.。
It blocks out other information.。
Okay?。
So, for example, when you're scrolling down Facebook or Instagram, you instantly -- things instantly pop out, right?。
Things that, oh, you find are interesting eventually pop out.。
And do you know who controls what you filter?。
You control what you filter.。
As you're looking at Instagram and Facebook right now and you're scrolling through what is important, what -- what -- what decides what is important, what you look at?。
It is you.。
It is you.。
You decide.。
If you decide, oh, you know, sports is going to make me happy, then sporty things are going to pop up and you're going to look for sporty things because that's what you've sort of activated in your mind.。
That sports is interesting and that sports is going to intrigue me.。
If you find that, oh, only people with amazing jobs, they're going to be happy, then that's going to be sort of the mindset that you have.。
People are successful when they have a happy, good job.。
And so if I don't have a good, happy job, then I'm going to be all very down on myself because I don't have that sort of thing.。
We decide what we filter.。
We choose what we allow in our mind.。
And that is why it's so powerful.。
When we allow the Lord, the word of the Lord to come into our mind, to change our mind.。
Paul says, right, that there's a transformation that happens when we allow God to come into our mind.。
When we seek the Lord and we seek peace, true peace, true goodness, true satisfaction from the Lord, we start to change our mind to be able to seek after these things from the Lord.。
Our mind changes.。
I remember when I was attending the University of Toronto and I would commute every day.。
It was almost an hour commute by bus or these are trams, they called it.。
An hour every day to the University of Toronto.。
And I started devoting myself to reading the word of the Lord every day when I was commuting.。
It didn't matter if there were some funny people on the bus or it was really crowded or it was rush hour or whatever.。
I would just read the word of the Lord every day.。
On the bus.。
And slowly I saw that God transformed my mind as I filled my life with his word every day.。
My values changed.。
My priorities started to change.。
Instead of it being about me, I started to value serving the Lord more and more.。
Instead of valuing myself, I started valuing God more and more and then serving God and others' feelings more and more.。
And God changed my mind as I filled my life and filled my mind with his word.。
If you keep his word, you will abide in Christ.。
The third thing that Jesus says is obey his commands.。
As the father has loved me, so I have loved you.。
So now remain in my love.。
As the father has loved me, so I have loved you.。
You will remain in my love just as I have kept my father's commands and remain in his love.。
Jesus sets an example for us of obedience.。
Leaving his throne in heaven to become one of us.。
To become flesh.。
He obeyed the father.。
He obeyed the father to the cross.。
To the suffering of the cross.。
And Jesus also calls us that if we are to abide in him, to remain in him, to have real connection, we must obey him.。
Because he, the father, is the gardener.。
The perfect gardener.。
He knows what is best for us.。
So if we obey him, we will become more like Christ.。
And we will walk in his perfect plan.。
And one of those steps of obedience I took was coming to Hong Kong.。
Right?。
Just like James coming from the UK to Hong Kong, I came from Toronto, leaving my Toronto Raptors, leaving my live sports to come to Hong Kong.。
Because God gave me a calling to serve here.。
To build up the next generation.。
We are the north.。
And I was obedient to his calling.。
I didn't know exactly what happened.。
I didn't know exactly what was going to happen.。
Coming to Hong Kong.。
Would I find a place to live?。
I didn't know what was going to happen.。
With serving at the church here.。
I didn't know.。
But I was obedient.。
And God called me.。
And he said to me, if you follow me, what is there to worry about?。
You are following the king of kings.。
Trust and obey.。
And that's what I did.。
Trust and obey.。
And the last thing.。
How do we remain in Christ?。
What happens when we remain in Christ?。
We will bear fruit.。
The branches on its own.。
If you cut off branches on its own, what will happen?。
It will slowly die.。
It will slowly wither away.。
And the branches are fully dependent on the vine.。
For nutrients.。
For water.。
And what happens is when they get nutrients and water.。
They become fruitful.。
They become fruitful.。
And Jesus says here, no branch can bear fruit by itself.。
It must remain in the vine.。
And no other can you bear fruit unless you remain in me.。
Just as dependent as branches are to the vine.。
We are dependent on Christ.。
And you know, just preparing this talk is such a great reminder for。
myself.。
Even those in ministry.。
Especially those in ministry.。
We are serving the Lord every day.。
And it's so easy for us, you know, to start just depending on。
ourselves.。
Depending on ourselves to connect with this person.。
Depending on ourselves to help this person.。
Depending on ourselves to serve.。
To preach.。
And God is reminding each one of us.。
And reminding me.。
That I am Jesus Christ.。
I can do nothing.。
That my motivations aren't right.。
That my life won't be right without Christ.。
We need Jesus Christ.。
And when we depend on Jesus Christ.。
As we are serving him.。
Dependent on him.。
We will bear fruit.。
And we will be able to get this, you know, this camp that we had.。
Explorer camp in 2018.。
Wow.。
2018.。
That seems like so far ago.。
You see some of these students that we had.。
We have Carmen here.。
Grew up in SEP.。
Became an intern.。
And then worked as an administrator.。
At Explorer.。
And now is studying for seminary.。
We are bearing fruit.。
We are bearing fruit.。
Charmaine, the girl on the left.。
She grew up in Explorer.。
Hadn't really served before.。
Started serving after this camp.。
Went on Philippines mission trip with us.。
Shared the gospel and led somebody to Christ for the first time.。
And then she is a mentor.。
In our Titus fellowship.。
A lot of these kids have grown up and become ambassadors in our。
Explorer worship.。
God has helped us.。
To become fruitful.。
And when we remain in him and when we obey him.。
We see the fruit.。
That he bears.。
We see the fruit.。
That he bears.。
And so once again.。
Let us remain in Christ.。
And as we remain in Christ.。
We have a father that will take care of us.。
And this father will prune away.。
Take away the things that aren't fruitful.。
As we remain in Christ.。
We keep his word in our mind.。
We live his word.。
Live out his word.。
As we remain in Christ.。
We are obedient.。
We trust and obey him.。
And when we remain in Christ.。
The result is there is fruit.。
The fruit of our labors.。
And the biggest challenge for us today.。
Is that we fully depend on him.。
What area of your life.。
Is Christ challenging you tonight.。
To remain in him.。
Are there areas in your life tonight.。
That you know God is trying to prune.。
Are there areas of disobedience.。
Or sin in your life.。
That God is calling you specifically.。
To take away.。
Would you surrender that to the Lord.。
Tonight.。
Are there areas in your life.。
That you haven't let the word.。
Do you not let the word of God.。
To be in his word daily.。
God is challenging you to remain in him.。
By spending time in the word.。
Spending time in the word.。
Will change your life.。
And change your mind.。
And transform the way you think.。
Are there areas in your life.。
That God wants you to remain in him.。
By obeying him.。
There is a certain.。
Crossroad you are at.。
God is challenging you.。
To obey him.。
Trust him.。
Are you willing to remain in Christ.。
By obeying the direction.。
That he is calling you to.。
Are you producing fruit.。
A good tree produces good fruit.。
That is what Jesus says.。
What fruit are you producing in your life.。
Your fruit.。
Will show you what kind of tree.。
You are.。
Are people coming to know Jesus through you.。
Are people being discipled through you.。
Are people being fed the word of God.。
Through your life.。
If they are.。
It is a sign that you are remaining.。
In Christ.。
We are going to respond with a song now.。
It is called.。
Not through me.。
Not through I.。
Not through you.。
It is fully dependent on Christ.。
Surrendering to Christ.。
Everything that we have.。
That is what the branch.。
Does to the vine.。
It is fully dependent on the vine.。
Jesus is asking us.。
To be fully dependent on him.。
so that we can bear much fruit.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
