- And good evening, everybody, and good evening to those who've chosen to watch in the dry。
at home, in your own home.。
You're welcome here with us.。
I get the privilege to kick off this new series, Church Together.。
It's a series that I am particularly excited about.。
Now you know, yes, I'm always really excited, but I am really excited about these next six。
weeks.。
I remember speaking here, well, I think it was on Zoom about 18 months ago, and I was。
commenting about people who were saying to me, "I can't wait to get back to church."。
Have you heard that, right?。
"I can't wait to get back to church," as we were doing Zoom week after week.。
And I remember saying to them, you'll remember this, "The church you want to get back to。
doesn't exist."。
As I encouraged the church to reset, renew, and revive.。
Eighteen months later, and five COVID waves later, what does the church look like?。
Well, church physical numbers worldwide are down 40 to 50%, but online numbers have literally。
soared.。
Churches have begun to take their focus on just their Sunday service or their Saturday。
service and began reaching out, feeding the poor, caring for those struggling with the。
physical, emotional, and practical strain of a world that was suddenly different, with。
war and hatred compounding the virus effects.。
In short, I believe this.。
We have begun to be the church rather than doing church.。
Let me say it again.。
We have begun to be the church instead of doing church.。
The pandemic seems to have taken particularly its toll on several so-called mega churches.。
And what we've seen, haven't we, in our newspapers, high profile failures, including reported。
abuse of staff and congregation and serious moral failures that have been featured everywhere。
in the press and the social media.。
I'll be honest with you, this has really saddened me.。
So in response, I started to pray.。
I started to dialogue with other church leaders here in Hong Kong and around the world.。
And I waited on God.。
As I waited, this is what I believe God encouraged me with only about a month or so ago.。
I saw a picture of a chair with four legs.。
And I was led to the early church in Acts 2, the passage that Michelle just read, and。
sensed that God is raising up His church in this season to be the church He intended it。
to be.。
I've put a picture on the screen.。
This is what I believe the churches look like.。
Historically, we as the worldwide church have tended to balance our churches on single legs,。
like great preaching, great worship, or even great venues, maybe even big donors.。
Now all this has been stripped away, maybe forever.。
And the four legs that I see are prayer, community, generosity, and the Word of God.。
I'll say that again.。
Prayer, community, generosity, and the Word of God.。
I believe that when these are aligned, when we have these four legs in place, evangelism。
will flow.。
Perhaps I believe through the workplace, it's the only place where numbers can be added。
daily.。
And I believe that God said this to me, "I am gonna turn the world's perceptions of church。
upside down."。
Too often we've based our perception on the reputation of a pastor or a leader.。
And this has been flawed in recent times.。
Or by the size of a church's ministry.。
From here on in, the success of the church shall be determined by the love of the people.。
John 13, 35.。
My friends, it is a new day and it is a new way.。
Welcome to our series.。
We are gonna focus on the early believers in Acts chapter 2 and spend some time over。
the next few weeks to look closely at them and how they did church.。
Acts 2 tells us how the Holy Spirit miraculously reversed the curse of Babel.。
Have you thought of that?。
The story of the Tower of Babel in Genesis 11 explains the origins of the multiplicity。
of languages.。
God was concerned that humans had blasphemed by building a huge tower.。
And when I say huge, it was apparently a reported 1.6 miles high.。
That's three times the height of the Burj Khalifa.。
And I've been to the top of Burj Khalifa.。
That's high.。
Why did they build it?。
To avoid a second flood.。
So God brought into existence multiple languages.。
And here we see that God reversed the curse of Babel and instead created a new community。
through the gospel.。
The picture we see of this first century AD community is a wonderful reminder of what。
church can be.。
Philip Yancey in his amazing book, I think it's one of my favorite books, "What's So。
Amazing About Grace?"。
He said this, "At the height of the Cold War, Billy Graham visited Russia to meet with their。
political and religious leaders.。
Many conservatives in the US criticized him for not taking a more prophetic role.。
One accused him of setting the church back 50 years."。
I love Billy Graham's response.。
He said, "Yeah, I'm deeply ashamed.。
I've been trying very hard to set the church back 2000 years."。
And as it were, we are going back to the future, 2000 years and taking a look at this first。
church.。
What we notice first of all is this, we notice a healthy posture.。
I say a healthy posture because I wish I had one, right?。
Now a word of warning, we must not glamorize the early church.。
They had their own set of problems.。
A perfect church has never existed and never will.。
And another word of warning, being a Christian doesn't mean nostalgically looking back to。
the good old days.。
We can and we will look at how the early church related to God, to one another and to the。
world.。
And what we will find is a beautiful picture, a beautiful picture of how the church with。
all its imperfections can be a community like no other.。
Let's consider the three postures of the early church, inward, upward, and outward.。
The church had a healthy inward posture.。
Upon receiving baptism, these 3000 new believers immediately began devoting themselves to one。
another.。
This church had a healthy upward posture.。
This new community experienced God deeply.。
And the church had a healthy outward posture.。
This community not only moved toward God and knew each other well, but they also moved。
toward the world.。
The early church, though flawed, is a wonderful model for us.。
The way it emulated these postures is a challenge for all churches today and for us here at。
KFCI.。
So we will be examining these areas.。
We'll be asking hard questions and resting in the gospel to find strength and motivation。
to fulfill them.。
That's why Christ gave himself up to create a community like nothing the world has ever。
seen.。
May we be that community.。
But for today, by way of introduction, I want to set this in context.。
We sang the line, didn't we?。
And the church of Christ was born and the spirit lit the flame in the song, "King of。
Kings."。
I love this line.。
Every time I sing this line, it gives me goosebumps.。
The church of Christ was born and the spirit lit the flame.。
And Acts chapter 1 and chapter 2 tell the story of how the resurrected Jesus had ascended。
to the Father.。
So the promise of the Father, the precious Holy Spirit, would be poured out on the church,。
fulfilling the prophecy shared in the book of Joel centuries before.。
But what I want to do before we focus on Acts 2, 42 to 47, you're going to hear those verses。
quite a lot the next few weeks.。
What I want to do is to set the scene, as it were.。
As I reread chapters 1 and 2, I was reminded of four prerequisites to the birth of the。
early church.。
And they can be summarized in four words.。
And they are effectively the entry points for our series.。
And they are waiting, togetherness, receiving, and boldness.。
Let me say them again.。
Waiting, togetherness, receiving, and boldness.。
Let's look at them one at a time.。
Waiting.。
Who are we waiting on?。
Waiting on God, of course.。
In chapter 1, on one occasion while he was eating with them, he gave him this command.。
Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait.。
Wait for the gift my Father promised, which you have heard me speak about.。
John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.。
That word wait, I put the Greek up there, perimenein, is to wait for, to wait.。
None of us enjoy waiting, do we?。
Oh, what do you think about these telephone, hotlines, right?。
For English press, one, for Canadian press, two.。
What department do you want?。
I've got no idea.。
One, two, three, four, five, six.。
And oh my goodness, if you want this and that.。
So many decisions and they're saying that.。
Eventually you get around to speak to a customer service representative, press zero.。
We all do that, right?。
Now it says, "Your customer service representative will be with you in a moment."。
Fifteen minutes later, no one.。
And then the voice comes on and you know there are call centers somewhere in the Philippines。
or India, right, when they speak to you anyway.。
No one enjoys waiting.。
I'm learning that waiting on God is actually very important in our relationship with Him.。
And it plays a key role in our spiritual development.。
Waiting does not have to create bitterness, anger, or loss of hope.。
It can establish a deeper trust and knowledge of who God is and His love for you.。
I pray, I pray that you would experience Him intimately as we wait on Him.。
But think about it for a moment.。
Jesus told His disciples to wait.。
He didn't say how long for, right?。
They did not know how long they would have to wait.。
Imagine me inviting you to a prayer meeting with no end time.。
This prayer meeting lasted 10 days.。
Could you imagine going to a 10-day prayer meeting and before you went, you didn't know。
when it was going to end?。
Now what was the reason they were able to endure this?。
In my opinion, it was togetherness.。
In Acts 2, verse 1, we read, "When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together。
in one place."。
Interesting that phrase.。
The Greek word for "in one place," omathumodon, is translated in some other versions of "with。
one accord."。
Actually, what it means is they were in the same place physically, like we are tonight,。
but they were in the same place spiritually.。
It means being unanimous, having mutual consent, being in agreement, having group unity, having。
one mind and purpose.。
Don't get me wrong.。
Unity is not uniformity.。
We don't have to look like each other, think like each other, or act like each other.。
But we can, I believe, and I believe this church can.。
We can be of one heart, one mind, and one purpose.。
Let's read on to see what happened as the result of being one.。
"When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place.。
They were all of one accord.。
Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came up from heaven and filled the whole。
house where they were sitting.。
They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of。
them.。
All of them, all of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other。
tongues as the Spirit enabled them."。
A little bit of background here.。
Jerusalem, it was the feast of Pentecost.。
It was filled with visitors.。
They were God-fearing Jews from all over the known world, gathering to give thanks for。
the first of the harvest and to celebrate the giving of the law to Moses on Mount Sinai.。
And isn't it amazing?。
It is here.。
Not in a secret stable, not on a lonely mountaintop, but in the middle of a city.。
It calls way bay, right?。
In the middle of a city bursting with people who had come to see Him.。
Isn't it amazing?。
That was where God showed up.。
God, the creator of the universe, who had existed from before the beginning of time,。
is physically present by His Holy Spirit.。
We read that wind from heaven fills the whole house.。
Wind just like Elijah felt in the cave.。
Fire, like Moses saw at the bush that didn't burn up.。
Like the fire that consumed Elijah's soaking sacrifice.。
And God speaks, not through a prophet or a priest, or in our case, a famous pastor, but。
through 120 uneducated, uncultured Galileans.。
So that everyone can hear and understand in their own language.。
I have a theory here.。
It's only my theory.。
This was not so much a gift of tongues, but a gift of ears.。
Because we read they were able to hear this in their own language.。
So it's quite likely that somebody was speaking something and two people or a number of people。
heard it in their own language.。
It is the story of the Tower of Babel in reverse.。
When the visitors eventually go home, they will return changed.。
Taking with them the experience of Pentecost.。
The Spirit living in them.。
The law written in their hearts.。
The first fruits of a new life in Christ.。
And then lastly, we see boldness.。
Now I want to tell you a joke now, but the only people in this room who are going to。
get this joke will be James and Paul.。
It's a cricket joke, right?。
You know what cricket is?。
Someone says to me, "Where does cricket occur in the Bible?"。
It's here.。
Peter went out with the 11 and was bold.。
You won't understand that.。
I don't expect you to, but humor me for a moment.。
But what it meant was that Peter put his hand up.。
Peter, the denier, who had denied Jesus three times, became Peter the evangelist.。
That's why we have John chapter 21 and the story of Peter's restoration.。
Why Jesus asked Peter three times, "Do you love me?"。
And our team, we were there at that spot, weren't we, three years ago, where Jesus said。
to Peter, "Do you love me?"。
Now we've got to remember here that Jews from all over the known world are in Jerusalem。
for the Feast of Pentecost.。
So Peter takes his opportunity and he begins to preach.。
Throughout the sermon, Peter hammers away at a single point.。
Jesus Christ is Lord and Saviour and people must put their faith in Him.。
This turning to Jesus in faith is summarized in a simple charge in verse 38, "Repent and。
be baptized."。
What are these Jews to repent of?。
It is their rejection of Jesus as Messiah and Saviour.。
And then we come to the result, verse 41, "So those who received His word were baptized。
and there were added that day about 3,000 souls."。
I've got to come clean now.。
If I was Peter, if I was the disciples, what I would have done after 3,000 responses to。
my altar call, I would have started planning the next evangelistic meeting.。
Maybe we need a bigger venue.。
Oh, let's get our best worship band in, right?。
Who knows?。
Next time it might be 5,000 or 10,000.。
But my friends, the lesson is that church is not a one-and-a-half-hour service.。
Church is not even a gospel meeting or an evangelistic rally.。
Over the next six weeks, we're going to be looking at how the early church responded。
to this influx of new believers.。
And in doing so, I believe that what we might be doing is redefining church.。
Redefining church.。
We're going to be looking at the four legs on my stool so we're not sitting there balanced。
on one.。
And we are going to be challenged.。
Next week, we're going to look at what happens when we gather around God's Word.。
Pastor James will be talking about what it is to have a Word-rooted church.。
We open chapter two with Pentecost, and then we heard Peter preach and 3,000 people repent。
and believe in Jesus.。
But those who stay behind in Jerusalem and don't return to their homes in the countryside,。
they form the first church.。
It's like they almost naturally come together to do what they are supposed to do to be a。
church and it starts around gathering around God's Word.。
They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching.。
Jerusalem was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles.。
Pastor James, who I know deeply loves the Word of God, will introduce us to someone。
who unites us despite our different ethnicities, our different backgrounds, our different movie。
and food and exercise preferences.。
We will gather around Jesus and His Word.。
The week after that, we're going to look at that they shared meals and took communion。
together as Pastor Johnny looks at a hospitality-driven church.。
Food is a big deal for Pastor Johnny.。
And food was a big deal for the first church plant.。
They devoted themselves to the breaking of bread.。
They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts.。
The early church would eat together and celebrate the Lord's Supper as part of the meal.。
There was a continued time of fellowship focused around Christ and aided by food.。
And as you heard earlier, we have got the best deal ever for you to have food after.。
So what we're going to do after this sermon, Johnny, keep the sermon short, we're going。
to...after this sermon, we're going to go out and we're going to put this into practice。
downstairs.。
The third thing, we pray together.。
And on the 4th of June, Michelle is going to share with us about a prayer-centered church.。
It says here they devoted themselves to prayer and to praising God.。
In Acts, we found the early church praying together and worshiping God.。
Have you ever heard that they got church that prays together, stays together?。
We as a church have much to learn about prayer.。
And I know Pastor Michelle has a special burden for this topic and is someone who practices,。
really practices what she preaches.。
She will encourage us and challenge us at the same time.。
And we're going to come back to doing life together.。
And Pastor James is going to talk about what it is to be a community-based church.。
He will remind us that Christianity is not just a Bible study, but it's a lifestyle.。
They devoted themselves to fellowship.。
All the believers were together and had everything in common.。
They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who needed.。
Every day, they continue to meet together in the temple courts.。
And this is the week that we will look at the church that is not a building, not a place,。
but a fellowship.。
People doing life together.。
James is someone who practices what he preaches.。
I'm so looking forward to hearing this sermon.。
So how do we do church together?。
We gather around God's Word.。
We share meals and take communion.。
We pray together and we do life together.。
So what's the fruit of all this?。
What is the outcome?。
Well the result is we grow.。
And on the 18th of June, I'm going to talk about what it is to be a kingdom-minded church.。
The last verse ends like this.。
The Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved.。
The result of this church family studying scriptures together, doing life together,。
sharing meals and communion together, and praying together is there's something so unique,。
distinct, and wonderful about them that others can't fail to come to faith in Christ.。
It's not they don't evangelize and witness.。
They do.。
But how they live positively affects their witness.。
My friends, this is what I want to see for this church.。
Mark the next six Saturdays in.。
Make sure you're here.。
And on the 25th of May, we're going to have a surprise for you.。
As we draw this all together, we're going to ask, what is church?。
As I ask the band to return, I'm going to make a declaration.。
It's not the way we normally finish the service.。
I'm going to make a declaration.。
On the 16th of March this year, at an event that was called The Tide is Turning, James。
and I were part of this, an event of Christians across Hong Kong, local, international, across。
denominations, I was invited to make a declaration on behalf of Hong Kong's 1,300 plus churches.。
Other people made declarations on behalf of business, education, government, next generation,。
etc.。
As we stood as one before our King.。
Tonight I'm going to make a similar declaration.。
I'm going to ask you to stand in a moment.。
I invite you to stand with me, say amen with me, and join us for the next six weeks as。
we investigate church together.。
Would you stand?。
If you feel comfortable closing your eyes, that's fine as well.。
There's going to be nothing on the screen.。
I want to read a verse from 2 Chronicles 7, 14.。
You know this one.。
"If my people who are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face。
and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin。
and will heal their land."。
This is what I want to declare.。
"We are the church that you have established, that you gave life to by your Holy Spirit.。
But we have made the church to be things other than you intended.。
We have been guilty of building our own kingdoms and not yours.。
We have worshipped the gifting of men rather than the one who has bestowed their gifting。
upon them.。
We have exalted pastors, preachers, worship leaders, buildings.。
We have worshipped at the altars of big numbers, big donors.。
We have been divided.。
Church fighting church, denomination fighting denomination.。
We have placed our dogma ahead of relationships.。
We have wandered far away from the church you intended us to be.。
Father, we humble ourselves before you and choose today to repent of our sin, our pride,。
our worship of mammon.。
We are sorry when our religious zeal has placed the law of Moses above the grace of Jesus.。
We are sorry for inventing man-made rules to replace the work of your Spirit.。
We are sorry of making church a building, a place to go to rather than a thing we are.。
Our war is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities of this world.。
We bless you for our church communities.。
We bless you for our church leaders.。
And we bless you for our brothers and sisters in Christ.。
We recognize the love of Christ and the Spirit in God in so much of our church.。
Today we pray for healing, for those who have been hurt by our comments and our actions,。
for those we have rejected for doing things a different way or having a different style。
to ourselves.。
We pray for a new awakening, fresh wind and fresh fire.。
Renew your church from top to bottom.。
Remove the judgmental spirit from me.。
Free me from old habits and a spirit of religion and religiosity.。
Help me to be an ambassador of reconciliation.。
Give me a fresh love for your church and give me a servant heart.。
I declare that the Church of Hong Kong shall become your church, a pure and spotless bride。
awaiting the return of its bridegroom.。
I declare this is a new season, a new beginning, and the church will rise up to be the church。
you ordained on the day of Pentecost.。
I speak unity to the church.。
I take authority in Jesus' name to any spirit that would seek to cause division.。
I take an axe to the root of quarrelling, denominationalism and competition.。
I declare there is only one church in Hong Kong, the Church of Jesus Christ, and that。
you, Lord Jesus, are its head.。
I want to finish with some scripture.。
This is Jesus' last prayer before he went to the cross.。
My prayer is not for them alone.。
I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them。
may be one Father, just as you are in me and I am in you.。
May they also be in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me.。
I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one, I。
in them and you in me, so that we may be brought to complete unity.。
Then the world will know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved。
me.。
Let's declare this in song.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
