Thank you, Pastor Johnny.。
Get your haircut, mate.。
2020, that was the year that was.。
I was talking to a pastor friend, Tim, last week in Starbucks.。
Yeah, I know the coffee is really bad there.。
And we started to reminisce about 2020.。
And some of the things we said were these.。
You remember when the pandemic first hit and we became experts in sourcing masks.。
Now I remember my last trip, Sandra and I's last trip away, we were in South Africa in。
February and at that time there was no cases in the whole of Africa.。
And I think Hong Kong was number two after mainland China.。
And we thought while we were there, we were going to grab some masks and bring them back.。
And as we went into the shops in South Africa, everyone was like, "Where are you from?"。
And of course we said, "Hong Kong."。
And immediately everyone took two steps backward.。
Fast forward about two weeks, the virus started to spread to Europe.。
And I was in Tsim Sha Tsui trying to get some masks again.。
And because I'm tall, dark, and handsome, I don't want to do this yet, tall, dark, and。
handsome, they thought I was Italian.。
So they took two steps back.。
And what we did, and you can see from the picture, we managed to source masks from all。
over the world.。
Many of them had them shipped out by friends and family from around the world.。
But then when the pandemic spread, we sent them back to them.。
Remember when you could fly out on vacation and did not have to quarantine?。
Sandra and I actually planned to travel quite a bit this year, as you can see from this。
photo.。
Yeah, right.。
Remember when we all became Zoom experts?。
We learned about things like Zoom fatigue, Zoom etiquette.。
Well, at least some of us learned about Zoom etiquette.。
There's always that one person on the call who forgets to mute themselves.。
Remember when we were scared of running out of toilet paper and we bought all the toilet。
paper and tissue available?。
The latest Hong Kong symbol became displaying all your stacked toilet paper and tissue on。
your window shell.。
But remember, remember when the disruption of the pandemic slowed us down and some of。
us actually spent more time with God in his word and in prayer.。
Remember when we realized though, even though we were working from home, it can be tough.。
And for Sandra and I, our next door neighbors have now been renovating their home for 14。
months.。
I kid you not.。
Nevertheless, there have been precious moments that we could spend with our children, our。
spouse, our parents that we otherwise would not have had.。
Remember when we checked in with each other to see if we were doing okay?。
And then we went out and we handed masks and hand sanitizers to those in need.。
Now this got me thinking.。
And then I saw this note, it's gone viral, hundreds of thousands of likes from a writer。
called Leslie Dwight.。
I put it on the screen.。
What if 2020 isn't canceled?。
What if 2020 is the year that we've all been waiting for?。
A year so uncomfortable, so painful, so scary, so raw that it finally forces us to grow.。
A year that screams so loud, finally awaking us from our ignorant slumber.。
A year that we finally accept the need for change.。
Declare change.。
Work for change.。
Become the change.。
A year that we finally band together.。
This is all the next slide.。
Instead of pushing each other apart.。
2020 isn't canceled, but rather the most important year of them all.。
So yes, what if 2020 isn't canceled?。
What if 2020 is the year that we've been waiting for?。
I want to share with you a couple of months back, I was on a Zoom call with a number of。
Christian leaders around the city, different backgrounds, different churches.。
And each leader was asked to share what the signs of life that they saw in their life,。
in their church, in their ministry during 2020.。
Some shared that it was more family time.。
Some shared that there was a unity in their churches.。
Some shared a unity between the international churches and the Chinese churches.。
And what I was looking at around my screen was a picture like a jigsaw puzzle emerging。
as each person shared the signs of life that are happening in our city.。
I repeated the same exercise at Gong Fuk Church about three days later with international。
pastors around the city.。
And each pastor was able to share what was happening in their life, in their church,。
despite the circumstances.。
So what I'd like to do this evening is to look back at 2020 at KFCI.。
And I can say as your pastor, in many ways, this has been a very fruitful year.。
We have an amazing team and a vibrant community.。
God has used this relatively small congregation to encourage one church in Gong Fook Church,。
family and cooperation amongst the trilingual congregations and bridge builders with the。
1,300 plus other churches in our city through the One Campaign, through the three-day Esther。
Fast and various multi-church activities.。
Bonnie I want to honor Bonnie.。
Where would we be without Bonnie?。
She is the glue that holds us together.。
She's put together this amazing slide.。
2020 was a year for KFCI babies.。
Harper in January, Eliana in November, and Autumn just recently.。
This is significant.。
And I'll return to it later.。
In January, Brian and Marissa headed off to Taiwan for their mission, their future, after。
their wedding banquet.。
And I'll never forget Pastor James' powerful Chinese New Year message from face to grace.。
I'll remember February not only for my last trip outside of Hong Kong, but for the way。
that we as a church worked with the rest of KFC to secure and give out masks to the needy.。
And Bonnie, Florence and others extended this in March to include hand sanitizers.。
Hashtag one church in Hong Kong became our motto for this period.。
And we also did a combined service with other international churches, a three-day ester fast.。
The one campaign attracted over 300 churches and 48,000 downloads of the app.。
We complimented it here with the powerful Jesus is King sermon series from Matthew's。
Gospel.。
We did outreach with Christian Concern for the Homeless, as well as the trilingual prayer,。
the ester fast.。
I find it ridiculous to think that Michelle only joined us in June, given her amazing。
impact on community.。
And do you remember when we were allowed to eat dinners together?。
I want to honor Mel and Josh who for two or three years, almost four years, each Saturday。
of hosted dinners.。
And then Michelle hosted welcome dinners, started Bridge, which became Lighthouse and。
found herself a husband.。
Quite a productive six months.。
I loved our Revelation series.。
So many of our, sorry, I want to go back one, sorry.。
Our Zoom worship first.。
Zoom worship started properly in August, and it's been a brilliant way of doing online。
services in a collaborative and a community way compared to uni-directional.。
And I want to especially mention Paul and the worship team who've been fantastic during。
this.。
September, I loved our Revelation series.。
So many of our preaching topics this year were determined by what we felt God was saying。
to the church.。
And Revelation was a prime example of that.。
Following Esther, do you remember?。
For such a time as this, God very clearly spoke to me, "Declare a fast for Hong Kong。
and preach Esther."。
And that's what we did.。
And judges in those days, people did what they thought was right in their own eyes.。
James, Johnny, Michelle, and myself have shared the preaching duties.。
I regard the four of us like a jigsaw, and my heart for them is to continue to grow into。
the preachers and the pastors that they are.。
They're amazing.。
October, saw Johnny launch the Titus English-speaking youth group and a youth mentoring program。
for non-believers.。
And we've already witnessed a few new believers come to faith through Titus and are so excited。
about the future of all-age ministry here at KFCI.。
In November, we welcomed the new KFCI church members.。
And I've loved our Christmas buildup, the journey into Christmas devotion, and our Isaiah。
9 series.。
This congregation is unique.。
Look at that slide.。
Sandra, I, and our KFCI team love you all, and we'll treasure these memories of a very。
unusual 2020.。
And what church, what church anywhere could finish the year with an ugly sweater contest?。
Now I want this to be a bit interactive now, because I've been talking for a while.。
I'd like you to go to the chat line, and I'd like you to put down what was your highlight。
of 2020?。
So let's see that.。
Just maybe one word or one sentence.。
What was your highlight of 2020?。
Can you start to type it now?。
Please don't put down Johnny's hair.。
I see we have no highlights for 2020.。
Okay.。
Zoom prayer with global leaders.。
That's from Anthony and Lillian.。
Thank you.。
Any other highlights of 2020?。
Bringing a dear auntie to Christ.。
Amazing.。
Lighthouse.。
Baptism class.。
Yeah, we're going now.。
We're going well now.。
I think Johnny was telling me yesterday one of his highlights, apart from his hair, was。
discovering Hong Kong.。
You know, he likes to travel a little bit, but he was traveling.。
Getting to know people I've never met, Esther and Anson.。
Starting Home Alpha Florence.。
Wow.。
Rest and Fellowship from Lydia.。
Inviting family memberships to church.。
Youth ministry.。
Our planned community outreach distribution.。
Wow.。
Amazing.。
Amazing.。
So, highlights.。
Keep them coming.。
But I need to tell you, spending more time with family.。
Thank you, Sarah.。
Helping fellow building tenants get sanitizers and cleaning with COVID-19.。
Anani and Sincere.。
Lunches with Snelly.。
I like that one.。
Alison.。
Good.。
But I need to tell you that 2020 is over.。
Today is the 2nd of January 2021.。
Two, one, 21.。
And I sense God is saying to this.。
You know the verses, I've used them before.。
From Isaiah 43.。
Forget the former things.。
Do not dwell on the past.。
See I am doing a new thing.。
Now it springs up.。
Do you not perceive it?。
I am making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland.。
Do not dwell on the past.。
The message version then goes, I love this, goes on to say, be alert.。
Be present.。
I'm doing something brand new.。
It's bursting out.。
Can't you see it?。
And the more recent passion translation says, I'm doing something brand new.。
Something unheard of.。
Even now it sprouts and grows and matures.。
Don't you perceive it?。
I'm going to be riding those two on my fridge.。
Now I do not think it is a coincidence that January the 1st, 2021 saw not one, but two。
KFCI couples married at our church.。
God's blessing on you, Hanani and sincere, Michelle and Philemon.。
Two couples in one day, actually two couples in just over two hours.。
I believe there is something significant about this.。
And I want to speak over this, that I think these two messages about marriages actually。
represent for us the relationship between Christ and his church.。
The church is known as the bride of Christ.。
And I believe that God is saying, I'm doing a new thing in my church.。
Congratulations newlyweds, get ready church.。
The word out there on the street is saying that the COVID vaccine is the game changer.。
I see that, but I say Jesus is the game changer.。
Jesus is the game changer.。
But what of 2021?。
I already expressed at the beginning of the Revelation series, my sense that the church。
needs to reset, renew and revive.。
It's simply not an option for us to go back the way it was.。
And in that context, I want to share my heart for KFCI in 2021.。
And here I want to acknowledge the input from our team, from Johnny, from James, Michelle。
and Bonnie.。
What I'm going to share with you now is our heart.。
Now those of you that know me well, know I love to speak in acronyms.。
Acronyms make it easy to remember.。
There's a strange story on this.。
I used to see the word fat, P-H-A-T around and to me it just meant excellent.。
Until I realized I had a sweatshirt with fat farm on, which I understand is a hip hop terminology.。
And people used to laugh at me because I had a fat farm hoodie on.。
Until I realized that fat is actually an acronym.。
And fat stands for pretty hot and tempting.。
I mean, come on, I'm nearly 68.。
L-O-L, another acronym.。
So today I want to make a cameo appearance and talk about C-A-M-E-O.。
Today is just one day in what is sure to be a long year.。
2-1-2-1 is I believe a cameo for 2021.。
I'll say it again, 2-1-2-1 is I believe a cameo for 2021.。
Now what do I mean by this?。
Well, my C stands for community.。
We do not see church as a 75 minute service on a Saturday.。
Now not that the service is not important, but instead we see the word community, which。
also embraces the word unity, governing the way that we run the church.。
That's why we choose to do Zoom.。
Zoom's messy.。
There's always technical issues.。
But we choose to do Zoom because we're more interested in community rather than a production,。
which is easier to control.。
Our clans stand for community, life, and nurture groups.。
And church, that is our heart for 2021, that every person who calls KFCI their home church。
is in community, either as a member of a clan or another community group.。
For 2021, we plan to start a men's community and a women's community to enhance bonding。
and allow those difficult subjects, you know what I mean, to be freely discussed.。
Now other community plans for 2021 include firstly, support group for leaders.。
It's a lonely life being a small group leader.。
And we intend to start a support group for all the clan leaders to join, but mostly for。
new clan leaders and also others who are interested in becoming a clan leader in the near future.。
This group will meet once a month so that they can connect with each other and bounce。
ideas off because it will be a safe place to ask questions and bounce off those ideas.。
The idea is they won't feel alone in serving God.。
Then we're going to enhance our welcome team.。
Michelle will start a welcome team that would regularly meet the new people that come to。
our church every week at the end of service.。
The purpose of this is to welcome for the newcomers to feel welcomed and not to be missed,。
to feel like a family here.。
It's very easy sometimes in a big church, for example, to come into church and go out。
without actually speaking to anybody.。
Now this initiative works hand in hand with the dinner pods that Florence and Julian are。
leading.。
You heard about earlier.。
When they become friends with the newcomers, they would also be able to go out for lunch。
and dinners on their own, hopefully.。
Talking of dinners, you remember those?。
We're going to start a welcome dinner and join a clan.。
When the COVID situation improves, welcome dinners will happen every month for newcomers。
to join.。
They would be invited to join a clan that we will start another group like Bridge where。
all new people will be able to join and be comfortable to grow with each other in community.。
We also see this as a breeding ground for clan leaders.。
And lastly, clan visits.。
Michelle will visit different clans to understand the needs and development to support them.。
The purpose is to know that the church is caring for their groups as well as for the。
congregants to have access to pastoral members.。
This will also allow the clan leaders to gain some support or suggestions if they ask for。
them.。
So yes, church, C is definitely for community.。
But if C is for community, then A is for all age ministry.。
I want to give you a little bit of background.。
We started KFCI as a response to the vast number of younger people either drifting from。
KFC church or migrating to an international congregation.。
The expectation from outside was of a young people's service with the prodigals returning.。
I have to say that was never our intention.。
Rather to create an alternative service that would appeal to a multi-generational audience。
in a style that younger people would also be attracted to.。
Of preaching a message that would be as relevant on Monday to Friday as it was at the weekend.。
Thanks to SCP, Titus, various initiatives, we have attracted a younger crowd and also。
at the same time managed to encourage an older audience.。
But the gap has been the young parents.。
Mainly due to the service time and the fact that we haven't put any specific thing on。
for them.。
Now it's been exciting watching the KFC family grow this year in the most natural way possible.。
Four first born babies born to three of our young married couples.。
It really reinforces our desire and our need to grow our children's ministry as we recognize。
that church is for all ages and the community is life and is best done cross-generationally.。
Titus has been a powerful move in that direction from the other end.。
But I'm pleased to tell you that a group of our people, too many for me to name them all,。
are seeking God's heart for an all age ministry that is not a cut and paste of traditional。
Sunday school or children's church, but one tailor made for KFCI.。
I have something else exciting to announce.。
I want to also mention something that really excites me personally.。
I've called it our G5 project.。
Now what that means is every time there is a fifth Saturday in a month, we will have。
a sermon brought to us by a next generation speaker.。
So that will mean four times in 2021.。
And I'm pleased to announce that as part of our One Peter series, so we're going to be。
doing One Peter, and then we're going to be looking at Mark as part of the One campaign.。
Then we're going to be doing Two Peter, and then we're going to be doing Women of the。
Old Testament.。
But as part of our One Peter series, a sermon on the 30th of January will be brought to。
you by our own Dave.。
Let's have a cheer for that one.。
And the plan is we will help them in their preparation and delivery and develop an army。
of preachers for the future.。
So if C is for community, A is for all age ministry, then M is for mission.。
Now one might be tempted to say that mission has been thwarted, curtailed by COVID.。
Now whilst I do understand this, it would be wider the mark.。
Mission in the book of Acts started in Jerusalem and Samaria before the ends of the earth.。
Hong Kong is our mission field.。
Only about 12 people go on an overseas mission trip, but we are all on mission.。
What I do promise you is that when we can safely travel, that Sandra and I have committed。
to lead a team to the Philippines or somewhere similar in Asia to demonstrate how we personally。
lead a mission team.。
This is part of our vision to raise future leaders.。
But what will be happening in the meantime is that we will be organizing at least one。
local mission trip every month.。
Johnny and Bonnie will be organizing this.。
So if your name is Johnny, Bonnie, Ronnie or Connie, it is for you.。
You are all invited to be part of this.。
And the key for us is partnerships.。
I want to particularly mention Young Life through James, Love Action through Agnes.。
2020 has seen us reach out to students at high schools locally and interaction with。
many who come from non-Christian backgrounds.。
Johnny and of course James in particular will be working alongside our partners, whether。
it be online or in person to extend our reach and expand our sharing of the gospel.。
So if C is for community, A is for all age ministry, M is for mission, then E is for。
evangelism.。
So all I've said, it is important to make the main event, the main event, leading souls。
to Christ.。
It is easy to hide behind the so-called evangelists in church.。
I look at Johnny, man, if Johnny asked you to come and play basketball with him after。
COVID, man, in three days, you'll be a Christian.。
He is a natural evangelist.。
I see my own gifting as being that of an evangelist.。
But there's the problem, leaving the evangelism to those who are apparently gifted, when we。
can all, all of us have the gift of evangelism.。
I'm talking to you, you, yeah, the quiet introvert.。
You've probably got your screen on black at the moment.。
It is our aim to raise up a church who can freely share the gospel at work, in your family。
and friends.。
And Johnny will be starting a training on how to share the gospel.。
Johnny and Bonnie will be planning local outreaches and we will regularly give people the opportunities。
to receive Christ in our services and our meetings.。
And then there is Alpha.。
Sandra and I led our first Alpha group in Hong Kong 26 years ago this month.。
We have seen hundreds of lives transformed by this wonderful course.。
But now we have an opportunity for now, Alpha is online.。
I don't want to wait till things are going back to normal.。
And so the news is that KFCI, after Chinese New Year, I will personally be leading an。
Alpha course here at this church.。
If you'd like to be part of this and help us on this course, we can attract people outside。
Hong Kong as well in this.。
This is an opportunity for us as a church.。
So if you are excited, as I am obviously, about CAME, wait for this.。
O is for one.。
When we add all this together, we come up with just one word.。
And it's this one.。
One.。
Everything I have spoken about points to one church.。
A multilingual, multicultural, multigenerational church in unity, community, with a heart for。
mission and evangelism.。
Let me say that again, because that describes the sort of church I want to be part of and。
the church that I see at KFCI.。
A multilingual, multicultural, multigenerational church in unity, community, with a heart for。
mission and evangelism.。
That's what gets me up in the morning.。
Division in the church breeds atheism in the world.。
The unity of the church breeds the aroma of belief.。
And I want to share with you as I come towards a conclusion, a story of how small seeds started。
right here in our church can extend to the whole world.。
One morning about three and a half years ago, Pastor Peter and I were having breakfast with。
Morgan Jackson of Faith Comes by Hearing at FCC.。
We had a seed, a germ of an idea to link the churches of Hong Kong in a Bible listening。
program.。
A week or so later, I was in Pacific Coffee in the Vine Center in Wanshire with Pastor。
Alex from St. Andrews.。
We came up with the name One and the expression One Church, One City, One Lord, One Word.。
As I said earlier, around 48,000 Hong Kong Christians from over 300 churches in six languages。
have joined in our One campaign.。
And I got an up-to-date figure today from midday today.。
As of midday, 50,912 people have downloaded the One app.。
And the good news is that not only will we be joining together with the other churches。
in Hong Kong from February the 17th to April the 4th to listen to the Gospel of Mark and。
the Book of Romans together, that we will be joined by Christians from all across the。
world, from cities as far afield as Kansas City, Accra in Ghana, Singapore, Ansan City。
in South Korea, Indonesia, and other cities.。
A seed literally planted here at KFCI that is literally producing fruit all over the。
earth.。
And there's more.。
Tonight we have a special first.。
We are going to be the first church anywhere in the world, I mean this, right?。
The first church anywhere in the world to sing an amazing new song.。
It's called One and it was written by Professor Daniel K.L.。
Chua here at Hong Kong University.。
My teeth got mixed up, Professor Daniel Chua here at Hong Kong University.。
I want us to look at it and to ponder it because the words now as I conclude my sermon, as。
they express everything that is in my heart for us as a church in 2020.。
Now we're not going to turn the mutes off, but as I read it, I want you to read it out。
loud and then after that, we're going to sing it together.。
Ready?。
One, two, three.。
One King, one kingdom, one God over all.。
One church, one witness, one mission, one call.。
Proclaiming salvation in Jesus alone, the hope of the nations made known.。
Next verse.。
One way, one truth, one life unites us all.。
One faith, one savior, Christ is all in all.。
Come every nation, tribe and tongue.。
Call on him, he is the one.。
And the chorus goes, let the people sing and the nations bring sacrifice of praises to。
our King.。
Every knee shall bow, every tongue confess, Jesus Christ is Lord of glory now.。
Restored, forgiven, redeemed by his blood.。
We rise commissioned in the power of his love, extending his peace to the ends of the earth.。
His justice and mercy will reign.。
One day all nations in a symphony of praise shall see his glory and the triumph of his。
grace.。
Jesus is Lord.。
Yes, he is the one.。
His will is done.。
Kingdom come.。
One King, one kingdom shall ever endure.。
One bride respondent forever secure.。
We are his people and he is our God.。
United as one we shall reign.。
No death, no sorrow.。
Our tears are wiped away.。
No more tomorrow.。
His light becomes our day.。
The nations rejoice in the splendor of his reign and crown him the lamb who was slain.。
Let us pray as Paul gets ready to lead us in this.。
Father God, we thank you for the signs of life that we see here in this church, in this。
city in 2020.。
We commit 2021.。
We commit that we would become a church, Lord of community, of all age, of mission, of evangelism.。
But most importantly, we would be a church that would celebrate our oneness with you.。
And as we sing this song, Lord, fill us again with your Holy Spirit.。
As we commit our lives afresh to you, use us as your church, as one church in 2021.。
Jesus name. Amen. Let's sing this together.。
