Hi, my name is Joseph T. I'm from the Philippines and I've been living in Hong Kong for over。
40 years.。
So I'm originally from Australia, hence the beautiful accent.。
I'm second generation on one side with ancestry in England and Scotland and then first generation。
on the other side where my dad comes from Switzerland which is where I inherited my。
deep, deep love for chocolate.。
Hi, I'm Peter.。
I'm Cherry.。
I'm Florence.。
We're raised in Hong Kong and we've been here our entire lives.。
Greetings from New Zealand.。
My family history is pretty much like the family history of many people in Hong Kong.。
My parents, my father and my mother actually came to Hong Kong when they were just a few。
years old as refugees because of the Chinese-Japanese War.。
And they settled down here and they grew up here and eventually they built a family here.。
So my brothers and I were all born in Hong Kong, grew up, brought up here and we were。
educated here in Hong Kong.。
Eventually we built our families here in Hong Kong.。
So my sons are also born in Hong Kong.。
Welcome wherever you are.。
It was really good to start this off by seeing the faces of our people.。
I miss seeing you face to face.。
The good news and hopefully it will be next week, we are going to come back together again。
and have a service together.。
So I will be able to see you face to face or at least mask to mask.。
Twenty or thirty years after Jesus had gone back to heaven, a Jewish disciple named Matthew。
was inspired by the Spirit of God to write a book.。
The finished product is what we know today as the Gospel of Matthew.。
We're going to spend the seven weeks of Lent taking a whistle stop tour through the book。
to coincide with the one campaign that we're doing.。
And I heard today 41,234 Christians in Hong Kong are doing.。
I want to give you some background and to do so I want you to look at this chart.。
Look carefully.。
Each of the four Gospels has got its own emphasis.。
Matthew's book is called the Gospel of the King.。
It was written primarily for Jewish readers.。
Mark's book, the Gospel of the Servant, was written to instruct Roman readers.。
Luke wrote mainly to the Greeks and presented Christ as the perfect Son of Man.。
John's appeal is universal and his message was, "This is the Son of God."。
No one Gospel is able to tell the whole story as God wants us to see it.。
But when we put these four Gospel accounts together, we have a composite picture of the。
person and the work of our Lord.。
The book of Matthew was written by Matthew, one of the twelve disciples of Jesus.。
Matthew was a tax collector before Jesus called him to be one of his disciples.。
And let me just expand on that a little bit.。
A tax collector then wasn't like a tax collector today.。
A tax collector at the time was hated, was despised.。
The central message of Matthew's Gospel was Jesus the King.。
The words, "the Kingdom of Heaven" are mentioned 33 times in this book.。
Now nowhere in the four Gospels do we find a single word recorded that Matthew spoke.。
Yet in his Gospel he gives us the words and works of Jesus.。
He started off by calling Christ the Son of David, the Son of Abraham.。
Matthew did not write to tell us about himself.。
But over the next seven weeks, let's get acquainted with him and the book he wrote.。
Then we can all learn what he wanted us to know about Jesus Christ.。
The Holy Spirit used Matthew to accomplish three important tasks in writing the Gospel.。
Number one, he was the bridge builder.。
He introduced a new book.。
That book was the New Testament.。
If a Bible reader were to jump from Malachi into Mark or Acts or Romans, he would be bewildered.。
Matthew's Gospel is the bridge that leads us out of the New Testament and into the New。
Testament.。
Matthew used at least 129 quotations or allusions to the Old Testament in this Gospel.。
He wrote primarily for Jewish readers to show them that Jesus Christ was indeed their promised。
Messiah.。
The second thing we learn about Matthew, he was the biographer.。
He introduced a new king.。
You know, none of the four Gospels is a biography in the modern sense of the word.。
There are many details about the earthly life of Jesus not given in any of the Gospels.。
What we will see that while Matthew does not contradict the other three Gospel writers,。
he does follow his own pattern.。
In particular, his emphasis on the kingship of Jesus Christ.。
So Matthew was not only a bridge builder who introduced a new book, the New Testament,。
and a biographer who introduced a new king, Jesus Christ, but he also accomplished a third。
task when he wrote this book.。
Matthew was the believer who introduced us to a new people.。
The new people, of course, was the Church.。
Matthew is the only Gospel writer to use the word "Church".。
The Greek word translated "Church", "Ekklesia", means a "cored out assembly".。
So even though Matthew wrote primarily for the Jews, he has a universal element in his。
book that includes the Gentiles.。
Over the next seven weeks, we will look at seven aspects of the life of Jesus.。
But I want to ask a question to begin with.。
If a man suddenly appears to be a king, the public immediately asks for proof.。
So what is his background?。
Who pays homage to him?。
And what credentials can he present?。
Now anticipating these questions, Matthew opened his book with a careful account of。
the birth of Jesus Christ and the events that accompanied it.。
He presented four facts about the King.。
Let's look at them in the first chapters of Matthew.。
Number one was this, the hereditary, the heredity of the King.。
Since royalty depends on heredity, it was important for Matthew and for Jesus to establish。
his rights to David's throne.。
So what Matthew did was two things.。
He gave him human heredity as well as his divine, his heavenly heredity.。
I won't have time to look at them in great detail.。
But let's listen, actually let's watch, firstly about his human heredity.。
This is the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham.。
Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, Jacob the father of Judah。
and his brothers, Judah the father of Perez and Zerah, whose mother was Tamar, Perez the。
father of Hezron, Hezron the father of Ram, Ram the father of Amminadab, Amminadab the。
father of Nashon, Nashon the father of Salmon, Salmon the father of Boaz, whose mother was。
Rahab, Boaz the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth, Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse。
the father of King David.。
David was the father of Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah's wife, Solomon the father。
of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father of Abijah, Abijah the father of Asa, Asa the father of。
Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Jehoram, Jehoram the father of Uzziah, Uzziah the father。
of Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz, Ahaz the father of Hezekiah, Hezekiah the father。
of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amon, Amon the father of Josiah, and Josiah the。
father of Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the exile to Babylon.。
After the exile to Babylon, Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel, Shealtiel the father。
of Zerubbabel, Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, Abiud the father of Eliakim, Eliakim the father。
of Esau, Esau the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Akim, Akim the father of Eliud,。
Eliud the father of Eleazar, Eleazar the father of Mathan, Mathan the father of Jacob, and。
Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary.。
And Mary was the mother of Jesus who is called the Messiah.。
Thus there were fourteen generations in all from Abraham to David, fourteen from David。
to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to the Messiah.。
Genealogies were very important to the Jews, for without them they could not prove their。
tribal membership to rights, to inheritances.。
Anyone claiming to be the son of David had to be able to prove it.。
Now in the Gospels we have two different genealogies.。
If you have time this week, compare the genealogy in Matthew to that in Luke.。
It is generally concluded that Matthew gave our Lord's family tree through his foster。
father Joseph, while Luke gave Mary's lineage.。
Now many Bible readers skip over this list of ancient and, can I say in some cases, unpronounceable。
names.。
But this list of names is a vital part of the Gospel record.。
It shows that Jesus Christ is a part of history, that all of Jewish history prepared the way。
for his birth.。
God in his providence ruled and overruled to accomplish the great purpose in bringing。
his son into the world.。
This genealogy also illustrates God's wonderful grace.。
It is most unusual, at least at the time, to find the names of women in Jewish genealogies,。
since names and inheritance generally came through the fathers.。
But in this list we find references to four women from the Old Testament.。
Tamar in verse 3, Ruth and Rahab in verse 5 and Bathsheba, wife of Uriah in verse 6.。
Matthew clearly omitted some names from the genealogy.。
Now probably he did this to give a systematic summary of three periods in Israel's history,。
each with 14 generations.。
Interestingly, the numerical value of the Hebrew letters for David equals 14.。
Matthew probably used this approach as a memory aid to help his readers remember this difficult。
list.。
But there were many Jewish men who could trace their family back to King David.。
It would take more than human pedigree to make Jesus Christ the son of David and heir。
to David's throne.。
That is why the heavenly heredity is so important.。
Let's listen to that.。
This is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about.。
His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph.。
But before they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit.。
Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose。
her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly.。
But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and。
said, "Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what。
is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.。
She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will。
save his people from their sins."。
All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet, "The virgin。
will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Immanuel, which means God。
with us."。
When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and took Mary。
home as his wife.。
But he did not consummate their marriage until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the。
name Jesus.。
Matthew 1 verses 16 and 18 make it clear that Jesus Christ's birth was different from。
that of any other Jewish boy named in the genealogy.。
Matthew pointed out that Joseph did not physically father Jesus Christ.。
Rather, that Joseph was the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is the Christ.。
Jesus was born of an earthly mother, without the need for an earthly father.。
By a miracle of the Holy Spirit, Jesus was conceived in the womb of Mary, who is a virgin.。
Both Mary and Joseph belonged to the house of David.。
Look at the Old Testament prophecies.。
They indicated that the Messiah would be born of a woman, of the seed of Abraham, through。
the tribe of Judah, and of the family of David.。
The king then was a Jewish male who is also the divine son of God.。
But did anybody acknowledge his kingship?。
Yes!。
And it came in a surprise package.。
The Magi from the East came and worshipped him.。
Now, Mount Matthew also makes no reference in his Gospel to a stable, a manger, shepherds。
or donkeys.。
He simply says the Magi came to the house after their fateful visit to Herod in Jerusalem.。
Let's take a look at that, as we look at the homage to the king.。
After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod, Magi from the。
East came to Jerusalem and asked, "Where is the one who has been born King of the Jews?"。
We saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him.。
When King Herod heard this, he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him.。
When he had called together all the people's chief priests and teachers of the law, he。
asked them where the Messiah was to be born.。
"In Bethlehem in Judea," they replied, "for this is what the prophet has written.。
But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of。
Judah, for out of you will come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel."。
Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time the star had。
appeared.。
He sent them to Bethlehem and said, "Go and search carefully for the child.。
As soon as you find him, report to me so that I too may go and worship him."。
After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star they had seen when。
it rose went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was.。
When they saw the star, they were overjoyed.。
On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down。
and worshipped him.。
Then they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold, frankincense, and。
myrrh.。
And having been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their country。
by another route.。
Now we must confess that we know little about these men.。
The word translated "wise men" or "Magi" refers to a group of scholars who studied the stars.。
Their title connects them with magic, but they were probably more like astrologers.。
God gave them a special sign, a miraculous star that announced the birth of the king.。
The star led them to Jerusalem where God's prophets told them that the king would be。
born in Bethlehem.。
They went to Bethlehem and there they worshipped the Christ child.。
Now actually we don't know how many Magi there were.。
From the three gifts listed in Matthew 2, some people have assumed, and don't we sing。
don't we, "We three kings of Aurelian Tower."。
Though this is not certain.。
But please keep in mind, these men were Gentiles, not Jews.。
From the very beginning, Jesus came to be the savior of the world.。
The Magi were seeking the king, but Herod was afraid of the king and wanted to destroy。
him.。
This was Herod the Great, called "King" by the Roman Senate.。
Herod was a cruel and crafty man who permitted no one, not even his own family, to interfere。
with his rule or prevent him from satisfying his evil desires.。
He was a ruthless murderer.。
He killed his own wife and her two brothers were slain because he suspected them of treason.。
He was married at least nine times in order to fulfill his lusts and strengthen his particular。
ties.。
It is no surprise that Herod tried to kill Jesus.。
For Herod alone wanted to bear the title, "The King of the Jews."。
The Magi were seeking the king.。
Herod was opposing the king.。
And the Jewish priests were ignoring the king.。
These priests knew the scriptures and pointed others to the savior, but they would not go。
and worship him themselves.。
They quoted Micah 5.2 but did not obey him.。
They were five miles away from the Son of God, yet they did not go to see him.。
The Gentiles sought and found him, but the Jews did not.。
Matthew cites a second fulfilled prophecy to prove that Jesus Christ is the King.。
In Bethlehem in Judea they replied, "For this is what the prophet has written."。
Quoting directly Micah 5.2.。
That's interesting isn't it?。
Matthew 2.5 and Micah 5.2.。
How he was born was a fulfillment of prophecy.。
And where he was born was a fulfillment of prophecy.。
Bethlehem literally means a house of bread.。
And this is where the bread of life came to earth.。
But there was hostility against the king.。
Let's watch it.。
When they had gone, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream.。
"Get up," he said, "take the child and his mother and escape to Egypt.。
Stay there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to kill him."。
So he got up, took the child and his mother during the night and left for Egypt, where。
he stayed until the death of Herod.。
And so was fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet, "Out of Egypt I call。
my son."。
When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was furious.。
And he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its vicinity who were two years。
old and under, in accordance with the time he had learned from the Magi.。
Then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled.。
A voice is heard in Ramah, weeping and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children。
and refusing to be comforted because they are no more.。
A person is not only identified by his friends, but also by his enemies.。
Herod pretended that he wanted to worship the newborn king, Matthew 2.8, when in reality。
he wanted to destroy him.。
God warned Joseph to take the child of Mary and flee to Egypt.。
Egypt was close.。
There were many Jews there and the treasures received from the Magi would more than pay。
the expenses for traveling and live there.。
Herod's anger was evidence of his pride.。
He could not permit anyone to get the better of him, particularly some Gentile scholars.。
This led him to kill the boy babies two years of age and under who were still in Bethlehem.。
Matthew introduced here the theme of hostility, which he focused on throughout his book.。
Satan is a liar and a murderer, as was King Herod.。
He lied to the Magi.。
He murdered the babies.。
But Matthew 2.17-18 tells us that even this horrendous crime of murder was itself a fulfillment。
of Old Testament prophecy.。
But I'd like to finish on something which has puzzled me ever since I started singing。
a song in the 90s called "The Humble King".。
When I first heard about it, the humble king seemed like an oxymoron.。
Let's watch the next few verses.。
After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt and said, "Get。
up, take the child and his mother and go to the land of Israel, for those who were trying。
to take the child's life are dead."。
So he got up, took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel.。
But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place of his father Herod, he。
was afraid to go there.。
Having been warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee and he went and。
lived in a town called Nazareth.。
So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets, that he would be called a Nazarene.。
The start of Matthew's Gospel contrasts Herod the Great with Jesus the Child.。
In a sense, this chapter could be called a tale of two kings.。
Ironically, Herod, the pompous, brutal, but phony king, seems to possess all the power.。
While Jesus, the vulnerable, the powerless, the humble king, actually is the King of Kings,。
who rules the heavens and the earth.。
In verse 23, Matthew intentionally quotes Jesus' hometown and says that he went and。
lived in a town called Nazareth.。
So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets, that he would be called a Nazarene.。
Nazareth is an off-the-map, politically insignificant place in the outpost of Galilee.。
It was despised by the people of that day.。
The name Jesus the Nazarene meant Jesus the lowly nobody.。
Even on the cross, he was called Jesus of Nazareth.。
So today, we have had Jesus the King linked with a dirty, smelly stable in a town called。
Bethlehem.。
Its only claim to fame, apparently, was it was the town of David.。
And we've had a hick town called Nazareth.。
Archaeological research says that in Jesus' day, probably only 120 to 150 people lived。
in Nazareth.。
That's like our congregation on a normal day.。
In John 1, 46, Nathanael asked the famous question, "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?"。
This tiny farming village, high on a hill and far from the main trade routes, was the。
last place that anyone would want to look for the Messiah of Israel.。
Who ever heard of a king being born in a humble village?。
A place of violence and grief and growing up in a despised city?。
The humility of the king is something for us to admire and to imitate.。
I want to leave us now with the thought that the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the。
Almighty God comes to us in the most humble of packages.。
Let us reflect on this as we watch and we listen to the song that I was referring to,。
The Humble King.。
Oh, kneel me down again Here at your feet。
Show me how much you love humility Oh, Spirit be the star that leads me to。
The humble heart of love I see in you You are the God of the humble。
Friend of the weak You wash the feet of the weary。
Embrace the ones in need I want to be like you, Jesus。
To have this heart in me You are the God of the humble。
You are the humble king Here in this dusty ground。
I bow with kings Where wise men lay before。
Their offerings I lay no golden crown。
Here at your feet Just this, my broken life。
I offer thee See, you are the God of the humble。
Friend of the weak You wash the feet of the weary。
Embrace the ones in need I want to be like you, Jesus。
To have this heart in me You are the God of the humble。
You are the humble king You are the God of the humble。
Friend of the weak You wash the feet of the weary。
Embrace the ones in need I want to be like you, Jesus。
To have this heart in me You are the God of the humble。
You are the humble king You are the God of the humble。
You are the humble king。
As you meet with your family or your friends or even as you're at home on your own listening。
to this, I want to give you a couple of things to reflect on.。
If you're in a group, good things to talk about.。
If you're on your own, just reflect on your answers to these questions.。
Firstly, how important to your faith is it to regard Jesus as a king?。
Secondly, compare the type of king Jesus was to Herod the Great.。
And thirdly, how does the humble king challenge you to live your life differently?。
Father God, I just pray for each one of us today as we reflect on this amazing tale of。
your birth, of your kingship, but Lord, how we are led to your humility.。
And I just pray today you'll help us to live lives that reflect your son Jesus.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
