Good evening everyone and welcome to, oh thank you, and welcome to KFCI.。
My name is Bonnie and for those of you who don't know me, I work as the ministry's assistant。
here at Kampfolk Church International.。
As a special one-off series, special one-off sermon actually, addition to our six-week。
sermon series on Acts 22, 42 to 47, Church Together, which Pastor John wrapped up for。
us last week, I'm inviting you to join me as we head back into the basics.。
Tonight we'll be building on the foundation that Pastor John, Johnny, James, and Michelle。
have built for us as we look at what it means to belong to the church and to be part of。
the body of Christ.。
The community, body, and family of Christ is a topic that's close to my heart and I。
hope that I can do it justice.。
So as I was preparing for this sermon, I actually was reminded about this recent conversation。
I had had with a friend who's new to the Christian faith.。
After some disappointing experiences with his local church, he shared with me that he。
felt he couldn't find spiritual home with this particular body of believers or see himself。
walking alongside them to support one another on their faith journeys.。
And he came to me with this question, "Is it really necessary to be part of a local。
church?。
Isn't my faith journey more about the personal relationship between me and Jesus?。
Why do I need church?"。
The answer that I gave him was honestly far from satisfactory even for myself.。
I was ashamed to admit that as a former religious kid, as someone who grew up in the church,。
albeit kicking and screaming, "I'm so sorry, Mama, who's here tonight," I had never questioned。
the necessity of being part of the local church.。
It's simply something that you do when you come back to faith.。
As a new believer, you join yourself to a local church and ensure that you're walking。
with like-minded brothers and sisters in Christ to support one another on your faith journeys.。
It was what I did when I came back to the faith, and I've never questioned it since.。
Now that is part of it, a look at the Apostle Paul's very complicated church story actually。
might give us more insight.。
Though the Apostle Paul, or Saul, grew up as a religious kid, he didn't grow into love。
for Christ's church.。
Instead, he kicked against it.。
As Author Megan Hill, in her book, A Place to Belong, Learning to Love the Local Church,。
writes, "Paul hated the church, celebrated the death of her first martyr, and used all。
his energies to strike down Christ's beloved people wherever he could find them."。
As Paul was traveling to Damascus, breathing out murderous threats against Christ's people,。
as scripture puts it, he encountered Jesus, and the direction of his life was forever。
changed.。
Overnight, the church's enemy became the church's friend.。
Although, as Hill writes, we might expect Paul's story to be all sunshine and hymnsong。
from that moment on, Neo-Church member Paul actually went on to experience many of the。
challenges of life in the local church.。
I won't list the challenges, misunderstandings, and disappointments Paul faced here in full,。
but if there was anyone who knew how disappointing the local church can be, it was the Apostle。
Paul.。
And yet, as Hill writes, this is the same Paul who goes on to call the church "beloved"。
at least a dozen times in his letters.。
This is the same Paul who regularly refers to other Christians as "brothers and sisters."。
This is the same Paul whose writings overflow with tender mentions of particular Christians,。
with longing to be face-to-face with the churches, with both anxiety but affection for them,。
and with unflagging optimism for their future glorification.。
Paul's story leads brilliantly into my first point, that to be part of the local church。
is to be loved by God.。
Our experience of joining and being part of the local church first starts with our experience。
of being loved by God.。
We see this in Paul's story.。
Before joining a local church and before becoming part of the body and family of Christ, Saul。
first had to discover that he was loved by God.。
How?。
Well, as Saul was confronted on the road to Damascus by Jesus about Saul's persecution。
of the church, Jesus chooses not to seek revenge against Saul for these murderous acts that。
he has committed against the church.。
While Jesus does strike him blind temporarily, he also tells Saul that he will rescue him。
from his own people and from the Gentiles.。
In fact, we see in Acts 26, verses 17-18, that Jesus tells Saul he is sending him to。
the Gentiles to open their eyes and turn them from darkness to light and from the power。
of Satan to God so that they might receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those。
sanctified by faith in him.。
Here we see Jesus acting not just out of love for his people, the people who already know。
love and follow him, but also for Saul and for the Gentiles, these people who have not。
yet heard the good news about his death and resurrection on the cross.。
And in this act of mercy that Jesus performs, we see this truth.。
God loves his people.。
Now those of us who are familiar with the Bible and the story that it presents know。
that God's love for his people didn't start with the local church or even with the establishment。
of the New Testament church in the book of Acts.。
God's love for his people is eternal.。
The Lord himself declares to the prophet Jeremiah that he has loved us with an everlasting love.。
God who is himself love, determined to love others and the whole of the biblical story。
consists exactly of the story of God making his love visible.。
But there are many instances where we can point towards God's love in the Bible, such。
as his rescue of his people from slavery in Egypt and from exile in Babylon.。
Perhaps the greatest act of love that God performs is in the climax of the biblical。
story where God sends his beloved son.。
And we read in John 3.16, I'm sure many of you here know this verse, it is one of the。
most famous in the church, that God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son。
that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.。
John writes of Jesus himself that he loved his own who were in the world and he loved。
them to the end, all the way to the cross.。
And Jesus' act of love and mercy only grows stronger when you realize that before we had。
come to saving faith in Christ Jesus, we were dead in our sins.。
Paul's letter to the Ephesians tells us that we were by nature sinners, deserving of God's。
wrath.。
In his letter to the Romans, Paul calls us enemies of God.。
Who better would know than Paul, who at one point was the church's biggest enemy?。
We see in the Old Testament book of Nahum how God behaves towards his enemies.。
In Nahum 1.2-6, the prophet Nahum paints this vivid picture of God's wrath against his。
enemies, calling him a jealous and avenging God who is slow to anger but great in power,。
who will not let the guilty be unpunished.。
No one can withstand the Lord's indignation and no one can endure his fierce anger, for。
the Lord's wrath is poured out like fire and the rocks are shattered before him.。
Moreover, in his letter to the Romans, Paul continues to say this, "Very rarely will anyone。
die for a righteous person, though for a good person, someone might possibly dare to die."。
But remember, we were by nature sinners, deserving of God's wrath.。
We were in no way good people or righteous people.。
But as Paul writes, God demonstrated his love for us in this, while we were still sinners,。
Christ died for us.。
By his work on our behalf, Christ cleansed his people from sin.。
United his people to himself and secured their relationship with God.。
And because of this perfect redeeming work, God gave his beloved people to Christ's Christ。
heritage.。
And Jesus responds by gathering his people to himself as the holy object of his divine。
love.。
In fact, scripture calls us the bride of Christ, promised to one husband, to Christ.。
Though Christ is not physically present with us today, God's love for his people is still。
on display in the local church.。
In the church, God adds to our number those who are being saved, continuing his faithfulness。
to all generations.。
In the church, and we saw this in Pastor James' sermon on a word-rooted church, in the church,。
God speaks to us by his word as it is being read and preached.。
In the church, God gives to us the practices of baptism and praise God we had free who。
were baptized last week.。
And the partaking of Lord's Supper, of communion, is a visible sign that we belong to him.。
And as we come together to celebrate this visible manifestation of God's love for us。
to be a people for God's name, we see too that God has given us each other.。
He has placed us together to be a community, a family where we are able to support and。
encourage each other on our individual and communal faith journeys with him.。
Now we saw previously, to be a part of the local church is to be loved by God.。
And we'll see now how being part of the local church is to be loved by the church.。
Those of us who are sitting here today know what it means to be loved by God.。
I'm sure you've experienced or at the very least you're curious about the saving work。
from this loving and awesome creator God.。
But to be loved by the church?。
That might be a little hard for us to wrap our minds around.。
What does it mean for us to be loved by the church?。
How does being part of the local church entail being loved by its members?。
Well, when Paul refers to the members of God's church as brothers and sisters, he affirms。
the close familial relationship of every member of the church.。
In the New Testament, oh sorry, in the New Living Translation of Paul's letter to the。
Ephesians, we read that God decided in advance to adopt us into his own family by bringing。
us to himself through Jesus Christ.。
Because we have Christ as our brother and God as our father, we now have a sibling relationship。
with everyone who's also part of this covenant family.。
That means that just as it would be with a biological family, the members of the church。
family now have mutual responsibilities toward one another.。
God never intended that his people be isolated individuals.。
As we care for each other, we experience and display the sibling love of Christ himself.。
In the local church, we are brothers and sisters.。
Now five times, five times, the New Testament epistles, the members of the church are commanded。
by God to demonstrate love and affection for one another.。
Being a part of the local church means that we are to express affection for every brother。
and sister and to learn to receive that affection in return.。
We are to regard the people in our local church, our brothers and sisters in Christ, with all。
the delight and warmth of a healthy familial relationship, covering their weaknesses with。
love and eagerly celebrating their advances in godliness.。
We are to learn their names, define other interests, and express our affection for them。
visibly and tangibly instead of only for the people of our choosing.。
We are to extend a hand on the shoulder, give a warm smile with a hand clasp, as Pastor。
John is so good at doing, giving this friendly hug.。
COVID times, you haven't seen him doing that, but I assure you he's very good at it.。
Reaching out again and again with a closeness that publicly affirms our family bond.。
Through such actions, we say without reservation and without partiality, you are my brothers。
and sisters, and I love you.。
As I share and encourage us to express our affection for each other visibly and tangibly,。
I must confess that I am preaching to myself as well.。
Why?。
Well, the beautiful, wonderful, and lovely people who are in my clan, my small group。
who are here tonight, hello, clan united, hello, will know this.。
It is so, so difficult for me to get to know someone, to learn to open up to them, and。
to learn to love them.。
I am not someone who is friendly or welcoming by nature.。
In fact, I tend to be quite reserved, and I take time to open up.。
KFCI family, please do not take my resting grumpy face seriously.。
I apologize for the many times when I've looked like this.。
Pastor John has on more than one occasion called me the most introverted person in the。
church office.。
I'm probably only second to Pastor Johnny, who calls himself the most introverted introvert。
ever.。
But let me tell you, it's worth it.。
It's worth learning to open ourselves up to community, to learn what it means to let people。
in.。
It's worth learning to express and receive love from this family that God has placed。
us in, even if it means that we're going to have to take some extra time and effort to。
do that.。
Now Pastor James shared this quote from his sermon on a community-based church two weeks。
ago.。
"Some people think they're in community, but they're only in proximity."。
True community requires commitment and openness.。
It is a willingness to extend yourself to encounter and to know the other.。
Now I cannot stress how much this quote speaks to me.。
As someone who sticks to something after she's made the decision to commit, but who has definitely。
been on this growing process of learning to open herself up to others, and in learning。
to extend herself to encounter and know the other.。
It hasn't been easy learning to let the walls of my heart down, and learning to let someone。
in.。
It hasn't been easy to be vulnerable, to share my burdens with someone other than myself,。
or to confess my sins and wrongdoings to someone who might very well look at me differently.。
But I can tell you with absolute certainty that it is worth it.。
It is worth being in community to know first that you are loved by God, and to learn too。
that you are loved by his people, the church.。
Now the truth is that belonging to and being part of the local church will always increase。
our obligations and decrease our independence as we reach out to or get to know someone,。
or even intentionally choose to do life with one another.。
This is good.。
Though caring for family can be frustrating and can often be so tiring, as my family members。
who are also here today will so readily tell you, "I love you family."。
And so it is with the local church as well.。
We find that our brothers and sisters' joys and sorrows become our own.。
We find that we will share their grief and trials and disappointments, but we will look。
for ways to show love.。
And though that means that, yes, we will expect to have less money and less free time than。
we would have on our own, but we will expect to have added sorrow.。
We expect too to have great joy by having a people, a family of our own.。
Though it is a privilege to be loved by God and to be loved by Christ's family within。
the expression and community of the local church, we would miss the mark of why it is。
important for us to be part of the local church if we neglected this final point.。
For as we saw earlier in our second point, to be a follower of Christ means that while。
we now enjoy and are privy to certain privileges, we have certain responsibilities as well.。
One of those responsibilities, as Jesus teaches, is to love one another.。
Just as Jesus loved us, we are to love one another.。
By this, Jesus says, everyone will know that you are my disciples if you love one another.。
Jesus also tells his disciples that if they love him, they will keep his commands.。
And so as followers of Christ, we are not only to enjoy the privileges of being loved。
by God and of being loved by his people within the local church, we are called as well to。
love God and his people by joining ourselves too and becoming part of the local church,。
walking in Christlike love for his people and loving God by loving them.。
And the thing is, as we learn to love God's people because he first loved them and because。
he calls us to, we realize that even the responsibility of loving God's people is a privilege in itself.。
For the ultimate result of God's uncaused sacrificial love is to make the objects of。
his love lovely.。
Theologian Gary Williams, and I'm very sure you have seen this quote from Pastor John。
before, says this, "God does not find people who are beautiful and then decide to love。
them.。
Rather, he makes the objects of his love beautiful."。
The amazing thing about God, let me tell you, is that he sets his love on sinful, rebellious,。
hateful, and ignorant people.。
But guess what?。
God's love changes everything about us as we learn to love God by loving others.。
While we ourselves cannot change others by our love the way that God changes us with。
his love, our love for one another in the church does produce a sort of radiant loveliness。
that shines before a watching world.。
And as we meet together as a church body and family and love the people in our local church,。
we grow to become more lovely to each other and to God.。
We grow in love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.。
The ordinary acts of love that we perform for Christ's church, whether it's taking the。
initiative to get to know someone or pray for someone we might not normally be drawn。
to or even to reach out to someone who's new and make them feel welcome, these are the。
avenues through which God makes us more like Christ.。
And as we are drawn deeper into the midst of Christ's church, we find that it doesn't。
stop there.。
Instead, we form relationships and build bonds of the sort that I talked about that allow。
us to meet each other in our sin.。
Now it might seem scary at first, and I know because I've been there.。
Because we don't normally participate in such a level of vulnerability.。
But as we develop the sense of trust that enables us to walk with one another in our。
battle to become more like Jesus, we find that no longer are we fighting and struggling。
against our sin on our own.。
Instead, we are walking alongside the members of our local church as we support one another。
in our journeys with Christ, partnering with God, and taking up our own responsibility。
to walk in holiness while the Holy Spirit takes on the necessary renovation work in。
our hearts.。
While this act of love and of being loved can be messy and painful at times, and it。
will require grace and self-sacrifice the kind that Jesus showed us, it is through these。
acts of loving others and being loved that we are given the privilege of becoming more。
like him.。
Now let me pause and draw back just for a second.。
If you think this sounds like something you could never do or accomplish, then you're。
right, you can't!。
The good news is you don't have to.。
God knows that by our own strength we could never muster up the kind of love that he shows。
his people, which is why he doesn't expect us to do it alone.。
Instead, he tells us that we, who are children of God, have received his Holy Spirit, that。
he might live in us and we in him.。
Scripture tells us that if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete。
in us.。
Scripture also tells us that God is love.。
God who is love lives and puts his love in each one of us, so that as we love one another,。
his love is made complete in us.。
Though the process of loving and being loved by the local church can be frustrating and。
difficult, we don't have to worry about mustering that love up by ourselves.。
For as we look to God for the incentive of our love and for the example of how to love,。
we find too that we find that love within God himself.。
When the God who is love dwells in us by his Holy Spirit, we have everything we need to。
love his people.。
Now church, as I end here for tonight, let me challenge you to think about your answer。
to the question, "Why church?"。
Are you able, like the Apostle Paul, to see that while it is a duty and responsibility。
of a follower of Christ to be part of and to love the local church, there is at the。
same time nothing to be compared with being a Christian and a member of the body of Christ?。
Are you able to see the church the way that God sees us and to embrace that privilege。
of being part of your local church?。
If you are, then praise God, thanks be to God.。
But if not, then like Paul, I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order。
that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance。
in his holy people and his incomparably great power for those of us who believe.。
I pray that you would learn what it means to love and be loved by the local church,。
and in the process of learning, grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love。
of Christ.。
And I pray, lastly, for each and every one of us here tonight, that we would be devoted。
to one another, and that the Lord would cause our love to increase and overflow, not just。
for those of us within the local church, but for each one that the Lord calls us to love.。
Let us pray.。
Father God, thank you for this opportunity, Lord, to be able to, yeah, Lord, really speak。
with my church family, Lord, about what it means to belong to the body of Christ.。
Lord, you know that the community, body, and family of Christ is a special topic that's。
so near and dear to my heart, and I only praise you, Lord, that you have placed us within。
this church family, that we might learn what it means to love and receive that love from。
one another.。
Father God, I just know that love in the church family can be so hurtful, can be so frustrating,。
so messy, and so difficult, because we are broken people, and we don't know how to love。
one another.。
But Father God, as I just pray for us tonight, Lord, I pray, too, that, yeah, Lord, that。
as you have called every one of us here to be your people, that you would teach us what。
it means to, yeah, Lord, walk with one another in love, to take up the cross, to follow you,。
to take on our personal responsibility of walking in holiness with you while the Spirit。
takes on the necessary renovation of our hearts.。
And Lord, you who are love himself, I know that your love is made complete in us as we。
learn to love one another.。
And so, Lord, as I pray tonight that KFCI would truly be a church together, that would。
you cause our love for one another to increase and overflow.。
And so we just thank you for this time to be a body of Christ, to be a church family。
in a community where we are able to support and encourage each other, and we give all。
the praise, thanks, and glory to you.。
In your wonderful name, Lord Jesus Christ, we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
