Wow, that was such a heavy video clip to watch.。
Good evening, everyone.。
My name is Michelle and I'm one of the pastors here.。
It's great to be here to celebrate and to remember what Jesus has done for us.。
But I come also with a heavy heart because we've just watched a video of Jesus who is。
suffering on the cross and who died for us.。
And so today we come together really to remember what he has done for us.。
And today we'll be looking at the Gospel of Mark, the end of it, from chapters 14 to 16.。
So if you would like to follow along, you may open up your Bibles to those chapters.。
And we're just coming together to see what it is that the author of the Gospel of Mark。
wants to tell us, because we have four different Gospels and each one will tell it slightly。
different because there is a message that the author wants to tell us.。
And so today we'll be seeing that there are a lot of people who will be trembling in these。
stories and they're trembling because they don't really understand and know that Jesus。
is the Son of God.。
But if we today, if we do know, we don't need to tremble.。
So now let us begin with a prayer.。
Dear heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word, the Bible that you have left。
to us, so we know about you and we know how much you love us.。
And we thank you that we have the opportunity to read your words and we thank you that you。
have given your spirit so that we may understand it.。
And today we all come before you praying that your spirit would be amongst us and you speak。
to us today.。
Thank you so much.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Now so just before this scene that we've seen, Jesus was at the Garden of Gethsemane and。
he was praying because he's about to go onto the cross to do the mission that he came to。
do because as Son of God, he came to flesh and he's gonna take away the sins of the world.。
And so what we find is that one of his disciples, Judas, who betrayed him, is now coming with。
the servants of the high priests, the elders, and the religious leaders.。
And they're not coming with nothing.。
They came with swords and clubs ready to arrest Jesus.。
And this is what he said.。
Let's look at it together on the slide.。
Every day I was with you teaching in the temple courts and you did not arrest me, but the。
scriptures must be fulfilled.。
Then everyone deserted him and fled.。
A young man wearing nothing but a linen garment was following Jesus.。
When they seized him, he fled naked, leaving his garments behind.。
Now after this, we know that Jesus was brought to trial in front of the high priests and。
the Sanhedrin, which is a group of people who would judge on behalf of the Jews.。
And they could not find anything that's faulty of him.。
And the only thing that they seem to find is that he is the son, he is the king of Jews.。
But little did they know that's exactly who he is.。
And so what we find is that people are shouting afterwards and they want to crucify him.。
They want to kill him because they were out of jealousy.。
They want to get rid of Jesus.。
And so we see that during this arrest and the trial of Jesus and his disciples, they。
were trembling.。
They were fleeing for their lives at this moment because the Jesus that they knew and。
thought would be the Messiah is now arrested.。
And he's no longer that powerful God or Jesus that they knew from before.。
And so they were scared and they started to flee.。
And then Jesus began to be taken up.。
And he was just like a lamb who was about to go and be slaughtered.。
Now what was it in their mind at that time?。
They thought before the scene that Jesus would be the king and he would save them.。
And remember just a few chapters ago, he was riding on a donkey, humbly entering into Jerusalem.。
And just last week, we had our Palm Saturday where Pastor Johnny shared with us about how。
they were all cheering as he came into Jerusalem.。
And he said, "Hosanna, blessed is the one who came in the name of the Lord."。
And so they were prepared that he would be king.。
And also the other Jews thought as well as the disciples did that Jesus would be king.。
But how would he be king?。
They had their own ideas, which is that he would come mightily possibly beating down。
or resisting the Roman rule and to have their nations set to be independent.。
And that was the kind of Messiah and the king of Jews that they had in mind.。
And also because remember the three years that they had walked with Jesus?。
What did Jesus do?。
He walked on water.。
What else did he do?。
He fed the 5,000 and the 4,000 with just a few loaves of bread and a few fish.。
He were able to castle demons.。
He was able to heal the sick.。
He was able to talk to the authorities with authorities that they never knew of.。
And so all along up to this point, you see, Jesus was more or less the Messiah that they。
were thinking about.。
One that would deliver them.。
But at this very moment when he was captured, this was no more.。
And in their hearts, this was a great discrepancy from what they thought their king of Jews。
would be.。
And so they fled.。
Did you see the young man in this verse?。
The young man actually fled naked.。
That was how scared they were.。
Because you know why they're scared?。
They need to be on their own now.。
Before Jesus was in front of them and he would protect them and they were not afraid.。
But now every man for himself.。
They were running away.。
They were scared.。
And what's more?。
It's that this went against everything that they were hoping for.。
Remember when the disciples first became his disciples?。
I mean, I could imagine, although the Bible didn't say it, that they were imagining that。
sin from the moment they followed Jesus, it will be smooth sailing for them.。
Because they were with the king or the next leader.。
They did not think they would be running for their lives.。
No.。
That's probably the last thing they thought of when they thought of following a king.。
And so aren't we just like the disciples?。
When we first believed in God, didn't we want to be aligned with higher power?。
What did that mean?。
Well, if you're with higher power, he's able to do things for you.。
He's able to protect you when someone's attacking you.。
And thank God we don't have many of that physically done, but maybe at your workplace.。
Or he would be protecting you when something bad happened.。
And if you're suffering, he would deliver you.。
Isn't that why we too believed in Jesus at first?。
I mean, who here, you can raise your hand if that's you, believed in Jesus because you。
wanted to be fleeing away, running for your lives.。
And more suffering entering into your lives.。
Anyone?。
Okay, that's what I thought.。
You guys are quite logical people here.。
And no, why is it?。
Well, this brings us to the first point.。
In order so that we won't be trembling in any situation is that we need to know that。
God loves you beyond your expectations.。
Now let's face it, you and I both have some sort of expectations for God.。
Okay, they might be slightly different or vastly different, but you have your own thoughts。
about what God would look like, what he would do for you, right?。
And that is actually our own expectation of what God would be like.。
And sometimes, you know, God's right on the dot, so we're joyful.。
God did exactly, you know, as I prayed.。
And then there are other times where it's so far off, we're wondering, "Jesus, did you。
get arrested again?"。
And sometimes we get so disappointed and scared to the point because we need to be facing。
our own situations by ourselves that we might desert him like the disciples.。
And in here, it actually recorded that Peter denied Jesus three times during the trial.。
And sometimes when Jesus seems to be arrested in our situation, we begin to doubt.。
We begin to question, "Is this the God that I thought he was?。
Is this the God?。
Is this really God at all?"。
But the truth is, and I want all of us to remember that truth, is that God loves you。
beyond your imagination, beyond what you think he would be.。
Just because he's not acting the way that you expected, that does not mean he does not。
love you.。
It does not mean that he is not God.。
I remember the earlier passage when we read it.。
It said that when Jesus was being arrested, he said, "So that the Scriptures must be fulfilled."。
Now what Scripture was he referring to?。
It's Isaiah 53, verse 7 to 12.。
And I'm just going to read part of it.。
"He was led like a lamb to the slaughterer, and as a sheep before its shearers is silent.。
So he did not open his mouth.。
For the transgression of my people, he was punished.。
The Lord makes his life an offering for sin."。
You see, while the disciples thought that Jesus was being arrested, he was simply, not。
simply, he was actually fulfilling the Scriptures, the will of the Lord.。
Now what is it that I want to say?。
Just because you think God should act like this, he should do that, and when he doesn't,。
it doesn't mean that he doesn't have something better in mind.。
And in this case, he had the best thing in mind, because while the disciples were only。
worrying about the King of Jews and trying to get their nations back together, Jesus。
was thinking about something greater, something that's eternal, that he would be a sin offering。
once and for all, so that one day when we're in judgment, that we would no longer need。
to be looked at as sinful, but that all our sins would be pardoned.。
And sometimes I think we don't really, really, really understand it, and that includes myself。
as well.。
I don't think we can really comprehend.。
I often think that we're like a three-year-old, and we're trying to pray for a teddy bear,。
"Oh, Father, I really want a teddy bear."。
And when God doesn't give us the teddy bear, we seem to kick and scream and say, "God,。
you don't love me.。
I just wanted the teddy bear.。
I wanted nothing else, and you're withholding this from me."。
And whatever the situation you're facing, it's really real, and that's what's on your。
heart.。
But I also feel that God just want to say, "My son, my daughter, there's a reason I'm。
not giving the teddy bear to you.。
You might not understand, but you know what?。
I have a bank account loaded with money, okay?。
And you can buy as many teddy bears as you want."。
Now I'm using that analogy not to say that Jesus is going to pour out money to you.。
That's not the message.。
Please don't get it wrong, and he might, but that's not what I'm saying.。
What I'm saying is that our understanding and our focus is so narrow and small that。
we kick and scream when he has got this abundance for us, when he, here it says, that he has。
wiped out all our sins.。
And sometimes I think we cannot really comprehend that because the teddy bear is so real, and。
it's so important to us.。
But when we grow up, we do understand what that million dollars mean, right?。
So one day, I always think when we're faced in judgment, we're like, "Oh my God, thank。
you, thank you."。
But at this moment, though, just wanted us to all hold onto the truth that God loves。
us, loves you beyond your expectations.。
And don't let your expectations box in.。
God, just because he doesn't act the way you expect, that means he doesn't love you, that。
means he's not God.。
Seems pretty illogical if you think about it.。
But that's how we feel a lot of the times.。
And so when we tremble now at situations where it seems like God is not answering our prayers。
or not yet answering, we can hold onto this truth that he loves us beyond our expectation,。
and he will show us what's next.。
So don't let your expectations of who he is block you from seeing how much he loves you.。
Now as we look at Mark 15, Mark chapter 15, we know that he was brought before Pilate,。
who was the Roman governor with authority to give sentence death.。
Now even though he couldn't find any crime that he had committed, he didn't find any。
crime that Jesus did, but because of the pressure and how the crowd was pressuring him, that。
eventually he did allow a sentence death for Jesus.。
And only because he called himself the King of Jews, and he was beaten and he was mocked,。
he was spat on, he was at his greatest hour of distress.。
Now Mark didn't seem to record any of his disciples at this scene, but let's read a。
bit in verse 33.。
This is chapter 15, verse 33, which was what we saw earlier in the film.。
At noon, darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon.。
And at three in the afternoon, Jesus cried out in a loud voice, "Aloi, aloi, lama sabbatani,"。
which means, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"。
And with a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last.。
The curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom.。
And when the centurion who stood there in front of Jesus saw how he died, he said, "Surely。
this man was the son of God."。
Now some women were watching from distance.。
Some of them were Mary Madeline, Mary the mother of James the Younger, and of Joseph。
and Salome.。
Many other women who came up, who had come up with him to Jerusalem were also there.。
Now there was darkness at noon.。
It lasted for three hours, and at three, Jesus cried out, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken。
me?"。
Now this is actually a reference to Psalm 22, verse one, where there was a righteous。
man crying out, and he was suffering so much.。
And actually in that Psalm, at the end, he said that his God would vindicate him.。
So at the time when he was calling out, it wasn't just out of agony, but also referring。
that he knows that God would vindicate him as well.。
And so he breathed his last breath, and then he died on the cross.。
Now something interesting was revealed here.。
Now the curtain was torn into two, from top to bottom.。
Now what curtain is this?。
We can have a look at the temple.。
As we see, the temple actually has, this is the floor plan of it, and there is a curtain。
that separates the Holy of Holies, which is the holiest place in the temple, aside from。
other places where they would be worshiping God.。
It's so holy that only the high priest gets to go in once a year, and the other priests。
would be outside doing their daily offerings outside.。
And so at three in the afternoon, that's the time when other priests would be outside doing。
other offerings.。
They would be able to witness the supernatural torn tear of this curtain.。
Now why is this important?。
Why did Mark put it in?。
Because he wanted to tell us that Jesus who died on the cross, he's just not any regular。
man.。
He was the one who was able to bear all of our sins.。
Because he was able to bear all of our sins before it required a priest who would represent。
the people to make an offering to God.。
But if this curtain has been torn, it means that they no longer need to, through someone。
else, go to the Lord, go to God, but instead, because their sins were taken care of, that。
they have direct access, that we have direct access to God.。
Now you might think, why is it important for us?。
Because we don't, right now when we pray, we can go directly to God.。
But what we notice here is that all of this has happened, okay?。
This momentous moment, this moment where God is making history.。
I want to ask, where are the disciples?。
Where are they?。
Well, they fled.。
Of course, in other accounts, we find that there are some disciples who are there, but。
in this account, there are none.。
There are only the names of some women, okay?。
Now you're asking, why is this important for us to note?。
Well, think about this.。
Jesus predicted his death to his disciples.。
Do you know how many times?。
Three times.。
But he only disclosed it to his disciples, which meant that they had insider information.。
They were the only ones who knew about this.。
But you know what?。
They were not able to recognize that Jesus, who is dying on the cross right now, who was。
dying on the cross then, was the son of God.。
And neither were the women who had been with Jesus for all this time, who had ministered。
to him and who he ministered to.。
They also were not able to recognize that he is the son of God.。
Now why is that?。
Jesus had been with them three years.。
And yet the most ironic thing happens.。
A centurion out of nowhere, now what is a centurion?。
A centurion is a Roman governor official who looked after about 100 soldiers.。
Out of nowhere, with no context, no teaching from Jesus, don't even have a Jewish background,。
knows nothing about God.。
And he, seeing how Jesus died, said, "Surely this is the son of God."。
How can that be?。
Well this gets to our second point, which is God reveals himself to whosoever will.。
Now in the beginning, he only revealed himself to Jesus' disciples, the 12 of them.。
Now when he was trialed, he revealed himself to more because he told them that, "Yes, I。
am the king of Jews."。
But now he is extending it to this centurion who's a Gentile, meaning not a Jewish, not。
within the nations where Jesus came from, that he is the son of God.。
So don't you see?。
Isn't that the same with us sometimes?。
When we think we know the Bible so well, we know who Jesus is, and actually we begin to。
box him in what we perceive him to be.。
Because at that time when the disciples saw that Jesus was being crucified, this was so。
far off from their understanding of Jesus, that they could not recognize him.。
They could not recognize that this, Jesus being crucified, was the son of God.。
Now I'm not asking you to don't read the Bible.。
What I'm saying is there are truths that only in the Bible we would find, but would we sometimes。
misinterpret it, and would we sometimes be boxing God into our way of how he would act?。
Because think about it.。
The centurion had no background, no understanding.。
He simply saw what it was, and he was enlightened by God, that Jesus, who was crucified, is。
the son of God.。
Now so we can easily miss the works of God if we're too quick to what?。
Jump to conclusions without knowledge and understanding of the Bible.。
How we interpret it requires God to constantly help us.。
Now I think if we put it in a little bit of a practical example, it would be Jesus, who's。
coming now, not like what they thought.。
What is he coming now?。
He isn't that king that would ride on a white horse and start using his amazing powers to。
zap the enemies.。
That's not how he came, but he came as the servant king to serve and not to be served.。
And so our understanding of him sometimes would box him in.。
And so to help us a little with like a life example, well think about it.。
I mean would we sometimes know where to serve?。
So what we do is we sign up for all the things that are the serving opportunities that the。
church has, and we're like very passionate when we go out there.。
And then when your husband or your mother or your wife asks you, "Can you pass me that。
glass of water over there?"。
You're like, "Ah, no."。
You can get it yourself.。
Because serving meant to go out, you know?。
But no, when we misinterpret it or when we box him in, yeah, it only limits to outside.。
But it's inside as well.。
And also, what about how Jesus extended this revelation that he is the son of God to a。
centurion, which is someone outside their group, right?。
Would we sometimes then be like this, where we see someone who's dressed nicely, that。
person looks rich, and we're thinking, "Oh, these are all nice people.。
I'm going to tell them the good news."。
But you know what?。
That person, nah, like it's just an evil person.。
And we begin to limit what God might want to do.。
So what I want to say is God does things beyond our imagination, and we need to be careful。
not to jump to conclusions.。
Because if God wanted to come on a cross and die for us, I don't think there's anything。
outside of his imagination.。
And we can't really keep up sometimes.。
So just be open-minded as well about what God's doing.。
Don't be too quick to judge if that's how God's doing things.。
I mean, that might include just ordinary things.。
We might look at another church and how they do things, and we might say, "Oh, that's not。
how to do it.。
God doesn't want it to be done this way.。
Those hymns, they're outdated.。
Oh, these contemporary music, oh, they're too loud."。
Or we might start to think, "Oh, this raising hand, oh, this is too much.。
You know, oh, this is too little."。
And we might start to think, "Oh, this is how to do small groups.。
No, we should have a big fellowship."。
And we find ourselves just thinking about all these things.。
And we might be thinking, "These etiquettes are good."。
And other people think etiquettes, they're out of date.。
Speaking in tongues, you know, that's definitely have ended.。
No, it's still happening here.。
And healing, you know, that has stopped.。
Don't have any healing prayers.。
No, it's happening.。
And so, you know what?。
When we're thinking about all that things in our head, what you find is that we might。
have a newcomer who comes into our service, and then at the end of it, while we're still。
trying to judge what God's trying to do, that newcomer may say, "Ah, I felt the presence。
of God."。
So what I want to say is that don't let our understanding of God, don't let our knowledge。
or our interpretation of it limit what God's doing.。
I don't know what He's doing, but let's try to keep up with Him.。
Apparently, He's very creative, as we can see, and He's God.。
And He's gonna do things outside our imagination.。
So now, I really want a moment for us to just think about, rather or not, we ourselves have。
boxed God in.。
And today is an Easter Saturday.。
I just wanted us to reflect, has there been moments where we said, "If you were God, you。
would do this."。
And has there been moments where, "Since you didn't do this, I don't think you are God."。
And I just want us to reflect, maybe even today as you walked in, you know, you just。
thought, "Oh, this is gonna be another service.。
I'm just gonna hear and I'm gonna go."。
But what if, what if God at this time is convicting you to believe in Him, or convicting you again。
that in your doubts, "I, He is still loving you."。
Now in a moment, Pastor John will be leading us in communion.。
And I just wanted us to kind of think about how we, as we expect, and we have expectations。
of who Jesus is, and how that has really affected us in believing simply, maybe like the centurion,。
"Surely this is the Son of God."。
And so in a moment, I'll be praying a prayer for all of us.。
And I would invite you at that time, if God has convicted you in any way today, rather。
it be that you see for the first time that Jesus who was crucified was actually the Son。
of God.。
Or maybe you had walked away for some time because you think that Jesus had disappointed。
you, but today His Spirit is reminding you that He loves you, and you're convicted by。
that.。
I want you to respond later by simply in your heart telling Jesus that you believe in Him,。
that He is the Son of God.。
So if there's any way, and I'm even limiting God when I name out those scenarios.。
So whatever it is, in whatever way, if Jesus is convicting you right now, that as we pray。
together and as you truly believe that Jesus who has died on the cross has taken away your。
sins and that He is the Son of God and He loves you and you're willing to give Him all。
your sins and follow Him.。
And when we pray and ask you to respond, simply respond in your heart and pray to Him because。
He's listening.。
He can hear you.。
Let us pray together now.。
Oh, dear Heavenly Father.。
How many times have we boxed you in?。
How many times have we misunderstood you and thought that you're not God or that you don't。
love us?。
And how many times, Father, do we still be slow to understand like the disciples when。
you've told us again and again about what to happen and we still don't get it?。
Father, we pray for your spirit to work.。
The centurion was able to receive this knowledge that the disciples couldn't in three years.。
And maybe there are many of us here today.。
We just can't comprehend it.。
But, Father, we pray that your spirit now would convict them, convict us that Jesus。
is the Son of God, came to die for our sins and He loves us.。
He loves us so much that He's willing to walk onto the cross willingly like a lamb that's。
about to be slaughtered.。
And so now I invite you, if your heart is convicted of this truth, that you just tell。
Him, "Lord, I believe that you're the Son of God.。
I want to give you my life."。
Even if you're a Christian who has walked away, you can still say the same prayer.。
Or even if you have been a Christian following God, but you had expectations and you wanted。
to repent of that, you can do that too.。
Just going to take a moment here where it's just you and God.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
