Hi Church and Happy New Year!。
I'm deeply sorry that you have to have another instalment from me on video.。
I was convinced that I needed to bring this word personally and was genuinely expecting。
to be back home in Hong Kong.。
But Sandra's dad's funeral is now not until next Tuesday and we hope to be flying back。
next Saturday and we will be back with you in person the week after.。
I can't wait.。
Let me do a recap.。
On January 7th I set the scene, as it were, for our 2023 theme, Equipping the Saints,。
Serving the Community.。
And I talked about us to you to them.。
And I don't know about you but I was so blessed to hear both Dr Seth Kim and then our own。
Pastor Johnny talk powerfully about being firstly together and then about being prepared,。
opening the way for me to talk about being equipped today.。
Their sermons are the entry points, the admission tickets, as it were, for tonight's talk.。
I will be covering the passage, Ephesians 4, 11 to 16, that Bonnie so beautifully read。
for us earlier.。
This passage is our template for equipping.。
And it starts in verse 11 with God giving.。
This is important.。
We do well to remember this.。
It always starts with God giving.。
No apostle, prophet, evangelist or pastor teacher can say that it is anything of their。
own making.。
And the overall message here is that God gives so that the saints, that's you and me, may。
be equipped so that the body of Christ grows and is built up.。
What I plan to do this evening is a verse by verse teaching.。
I'll be taking these six verses in two halves.。
I'll call them part one and part two.。
You may remember that three weeks ago I said that Christ's plan A for the world is the。
church.。
He doesn't have a plan B.。
And for my first half, part one this evening, I want to look at the way that Christ has。
distributed his spiritual gifts to his people.。
I'll call them the how, the why and the where.。
I'll be looking at how, the means that God enables his people.。
Verse 11.。
The why, the purpose that God has for his people in verse 12.。
And the where, the goal that God has for his people.。
Let's look at them one at a time.。
Firstly how, the means that God enables his people.。
Let's read.。
And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers.。
The first thing that is mentioned is how God, through Christ, has made it possible for all。
of his people to receive the truth they need to live right and good lives.。
God gave certain gifts and associated them with certain key offices in the church.。
These men and ladies are not called leaders here, but certainly play their influential。
part.。
There are four categories, although some suggest five.。
Apostles, prophets, evangelists and pastor teachers.。
Christ equips these certain persons with gifts and positions to train, equip and protect。
the sheep.。
Let's first discuss what each of these gifts to the church might mean and then come back。
to how it relates to our own church.。
Firstly, the term apostle means sent one.。
We can best understand the apostle's special designation as a church starter, or in today's。
terms we call them a church planter.。
These individuals go into uncharted territories and establish the church of God.。
They define the basic truths of the gospel, who Christ is, how a person is saved and what。
the gospel is, and so on.。
The prophet takes what God has given to him and reveals it to God's people.。
God is communing with the people.。
This can be foretelling, but is generally forth telling, speaking the word of God for。
now to the people.。
In many people's minds, the evangelist is the person who speaks and charms thousands。
down to the front of the auditorium during an oracle.。
This disguises the real meaning of the evangelist.。
It again is not his charm or winsome personality, but the spirit of God working through the。
evangelist's message that releases the gospel into the hearts of men so the spirit of God。
can use it to convert the souls he is working in.。
Let's speak about Pastor Teacher, the ESV actually calls it Shepherd Teacher.。
It's generally regarded as one position, but we could equally have argued that it's two.。
Either way, we cannot dogmatically use our conclusions to define our ministries.。
A pastor cares for a local group of God's people, sometimes more.。
He or she has a narrow focus.。
The apostle may focus on a regent.。
The prophet focuses on the relevant target, whether it be a group or individual.。
And the evangelist, of course, focuses on the unreached.。
The pastor teacher sets his heart on training the people in his own congregation.。
The conclusion to verse 11 is that God will be calling and raising leaders from among。
our congregations to these positions.。
My question is, are you one of them?。
If we start opening our eyes in faith to the God who is serious about equipping the church,。
then he indeed will bless us.。
We must not succumb to the doubt that we don't need these gifted individuals.。
May God all the more equip us like the New Testament church.。
God is serious about training his people.。
We need to get with it and start recognising those he has gifted around us.。
Otherwise we will never get where God wants to take us.。
And that, dear church, is how, the means that God enables his people.。
We now need to understand why God gave such gifts to his church.。
He is very purposed in his provision of these instructors.。
Verse 12, this is why.。
To equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ.。
Now I spoke at length about this verse three weeks ago and do not intend repeating myself,。
but suffice to say this one small verse clearly maps out God's design for the church.。
He enables the church to reflect his love and truth in the world.。
It embodies everything that we at Gong Fook Church are looking to in 2023 and beyond.。
As we awaken to the glorious and most gracious calling for the church to serve him, we are。
all the more moved at the love and grace of God towards our own lives.。
For instead of growing in pride, we are humbled that God would work in our lives, yes even。
us, in such wonderful fashion.。
The world today is in desperate need for a church that is operating in the way that God。
envisaged when the church of Christ was born and the spirit lit the flame as we sang.。
For us, equipping the saints is not a catchphrase, but a necessity given the state of the worldwide。
church in 2023.。
I was reading a quote this week from famous explorer Bear Grylls.。
He said this, "I think Jesus would struggle with 99% of churches nowadays."。
Sad, eh?。
People are wondering if the church has any meaning.。
Many do not see God's love in the church.。
The church wonders if it has anything to offer and when the church is confused, it begins。
to act just like the world.。
This might be the way the church is in many cases, but it does not need to remain there.。
What equipping the saints, serving the community is about is when the people of God catch the。
truth and love of God as shown in his great plan for the people of God, she wakes up the。
call and the opportunity for God's church.。
And that is the why, the purpose that God has for his people.。
But let's look at where we are going, the goal that God has for his people.。
And it's in verse 13, "Until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge。
of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of。
Christ."。
This is getting exciting.。
We gain a much better understanding of how the whole picture looks here in Ephesians。
4.13.。
We find that Christ has a purpose in mind when he gives gifts to his church.。
In verse 11 we saw that God gives us preachers, apostles, pastor teachers, prophets.。
But if these instructors are not rightly living out their calling, then the church will be。
weak.。
If the pastor, for example, believes the church can grow because he is a good administrator。
or even a winsome preacher, then he will ultimately fail.。
It's true he might be able to grow, even grow a big congregation, but he will not have Christ's。
fullness.。
When these equipers focus on what they feel is right and on their natural talent, they。
tend to ignore what God has appointed them to do.。
We must return to God's way of doing things.。
God has appointed to bring grace to the church through the right functioning of apostles,。
evangelists, prophets and pastor teachers.。
Our goal is not just to get people into church, but to teach them so that they themselves。
can serve the community.。
All of us need to know the word of God and how to use it to minister our own gifts.。
By growing the people, the numbers of people able to serve and minister, we begin together。
to overwhelm the forces of darkness.。
Satan would have a hard time holding back the word of God.。
This is why equipping, equipping is so important.。
The problem here is not that society is too dark and evil, but only there is not enough。
light.。
The church can awaken and be the instrument that God uses to change the community.。
All the church needs has been given.。
The problem is we just don't believe it.。
Many Christians have lost hope by the sad things that they have seen happen amongst。
the people of God.。
They think that such a grand picture of the church is for some sort of distant heaven.。
The apostle, however, does not give us this picture at all.。
Paul is talking about now.。
The time for transformation is now.。
We have totally missed it if we think it is for another day.。
In this case, our goal might just be to get by.。
To do church.。
Rather than, as it says here in verse 13, to grow.。
To grow in the fullness of Christ.。
Now we might be able to criticise the church for not doing this or not being that, but。
we need to come back to our own lives.。
We can ask ourselves, are we, are we, am I truly seeking these three things?。
In verse 13, for our own lives.。
Let's look at them one at a time.。
Firstly, Paul said to attain to the unity of the faith.。
If I am seeking the unity of the faith, then I myself will live by faith.。
As Dr Seth told us, I will love others because they are God's people.。
Even if I don't get along with them as well.。
I will seek God to teach me all the truth that I need to know that I can rightfully。
carry out my work of ministry.。
Faith is always unifying.。
Because it constantly calls us to go beyond our own way of treating others and to care。
for others as Christ would.。
And next Paul talked about attaining to the knowledge of the Son of God.。
If I am seeking the knowledge of the Son of God, then all other goals in my life will。
become by comparison unattractive.。
What once occupied my mind and heart is now gone because I have tasted the love of God.。
Nothing compares with Christ.。
We want more of Christ rather than less.。
Away with church politics, infighting, jealousies.。
We just want Christ.。
And lastly Paul said we attain to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness。
of Christ.。
If I am to be a mature man, and yes this of course includes you ladies, if I am to。
be a mature man through which Christ fully lives, I need to focus on my growth which。
fosters humility rather than my past experience which fosters pride.。
We want Christ to be known through our lives rather than us being known.。
We desire God's love to radiate to others through our lives.。
But the question I keep asking myself, why?。
Why doesn't the church look like this?。
And we will see the answers for this in the next section, the second half on Ephesians。
14-16.。
Paul will be telling the church three things.。
Number one, don't be deceived.。
Secondly, speak the truth in love.。
And thirdly, grow up.。
Let's look at them one at a time.。
Firstly, don't be deceived.。
Ephesians 14, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and。
carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful。
schemes.。
You know, the biggest problem with the church is she doesn't think she is deceived.。
And if we don't know the problem, then we are most likely infected with the virus, yeah。
that word again, which results in our deception.。
I want to draw to your attention four serious flaws that have resulted in big problems for。
the church.。
Firstly, professionalism allows the notion that certain members should and do the majority。
of church work.。
I'll leave it to the pastors, after all, my tithes pay their salaries.。
Because of this, the people are not mobilised, and much of the work of the ministry is neglected.。
People do not expect to be trained because they do not see themselves as the workers.。
They tend to think they are better off when the worship service is short and entertaining。
rather than long and instructive.。
Their Christianity can be summarised by one church service that they attend each week.。
The second serious flaw is individualism.。
Individualism wrongly teaches that the expression of our own thoughts and ideas is most important。
to our life and fulfilment.。
These individuals will focus on meeting their own felt needs rather than the needs of others.。
This happens when a pastor seeks the approval of the congregation rather than the training。
of others.。
This also results when the congregation do works for the Lord in their own flesh.。
One observation I have is how little churches seem to pray these days.。
Carelessness reveals self-confidence rather than faith in the Lord.。
We need to build each other up so that we can do God's work together.。
The third serious flaw is what I would call religiosity.。
Religiosity teaches that a person can be a good Christian by attending this function or。
that function.。
Associated problems are the great number of people that see church attendance as the only。
thing expected from them.。
They are uncommitted.。
The fourth serious flaw is what I would call spirituality.。
Spirituality teaches that one's spiritual life consists in inward, otherworldly notions。
and feelings which breeds arrogance and despises rules, authority and interdependence.。
On the other hand, true spirituality causes a true desire to constantly grow to be more。
like Christ.。
It causes oneself to be closely involved in the growth of other Christians and it causes。
the balance of truth and love worked out in the relationship with others.。
It causes a commitment to learn and observe God's truth as taught in his word.。
The church has a lot of problems because Satan has duped her.。
She doesn't really know what is right.。
Without this persistent training that God provides us through the instructors he has。
given his church, Christians will stumble and fall.。
God has given us the key to growing strong godly people.。
We need to be aggressive in training them to equip the saints.。
Secondly he talks about speaking the truth in love.。
Verse 15.。
"Rather speaking the truth in love."。
Let me ask you a question.。
Is the truth more important than love?。
Or is the love more important than truth?。
If you can answer yes to either question, then you are off balance.。
Truth is love and love is truth.。
Drop one and you lose both.。
Gain one and the other will come.。
We must not compromise on what the apostle says is important for the church to carry。
out her mission.。
We need to speak the truth in love.。
Our goal and means are clearly laid out here.。
The goal is to become more like Christ our head.。
The means is simply to lovingly proclaim and live out the truth.。
Both of these elements, truth and love, are not to be compromised in any way.。
They are both essential to the glory of Christ.。
John 1.14 tells us, "And the word," that's Jesus, "became flesh and dwelt among us, and。
we have seen his glory.。
Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth."。
What I found is the church often swings from one extreme to the other.。
The needed balance was beautifully worked out in Christ.。
The challenge for us is to live it out.。
We must speak the truth in love.。
We speak the uncomfortable truth because people need to hear it.。
We speak lovingly because it is the only way to speak the truth.。
Otherwise, we misrepresent the truth.。
Churches need to instruct their people on how to both speak the truth in love as well。
as how to make Christ the goal in life.。
We must refuse to compromise the truth in the name of love.。
Paul's last call is simple.。
It is two words.。
Grow up.。
We are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ.。
Note the fact we are to grow up in all aspects.。
To be honest, it will take a lifetime, but why stop?。
Let us reflect on growth by examining a number of questions.。
Firstly, how come some Christians don't think they need to grow?。
The biggest problem of the church is that she does not think she needs to grow.。
Once a person knows he or she is a Christian and guaranteed a seat in heaven, they lose。
interest in the things of God.。
This is largely because the church has not done a good job of training, of equipping。
the church.。
Very few churches implement discipleship.。
Christians think they know what they need, when in fact all they know is the means by。
which they can learn more.。
How are Christians to grow?。
God has revealed the whole growth process in Ephesians 4.。
The church can only grow if she rightly receives the word of God, the Bible.。
Each of the main conduits through which the truth enters the church is an instructor of。
truth.。
Growth is inextricably related to acquiring a love for the truth.。
We learn the truth and obey it.。
Growth then means a person is more like Christ in his attitudes, his treatment of others,。
and his belief in God.。
And lastly, how are we to measure our growth?。
Many Christians live aimlessly in this world.。
They have no goals, no instruction, no motivation.。
A Christian that is growing will find sweeter and sweeter times with the Lord.。
Better relationships with others and a feeling of deeper personal fulfilment.。
This does not mean things will go easy for him or her, but only that they have the peace。
of heart about the Lord taking care of his situation.。
So our solution is simple enough.。
Number one, do not be deceived by the world.。
Number two, speak the truth in love.。
And number three, keep growing like Christ.。
But I'm not done yet.。
I won't be long.。
The apostle has given us a special illustration that ties everything together.。
And it is verse 16.。
Now let's read it together.。
I know I'm in the UK and you're in Hong Kong, but we can read it together.。
1 2 3 From whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it。
is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself。
up in love.。
From this verse we can see how the body should rightly grow.。
I'm going to make some observations.。
I want to take it phrase by phrase.。
Firstly, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which。
it is equipped.。
Each person is part of the whole, part of the whole body.。
Each person has his own key role to play in the overall development of the whole body.。
No part is to be neglected.。
Each is valuable and important to reaching the final goal that God has for us.。
We cannot say or assume that one part is not important.。
Each part has a place and each part is interdependent, it is held together.。
Paul then goes on to say when each part is working properly, we must be diligent to make。
each part properly function.。
A part might be in the right place, but if it is not functional, it still can't rightly。
help others.。
We all need to be diligent in not just having people come to church, but they are effectively。
trained, equipped, so that they can rightfully serve.。
No training means no proper working.。
Lets move on.。
Makes the body grow so that it builds itself up.。
When the individual body parts are rightfully functioning, then the whole body grows.。
We are on the whole far too individualistic.。
We think about our own growth, rather than the whole body's growth.。
Have you ever prayed, "Lord help me grow so that everyone will be benefited"?。
Probably not.。
And lastly, these two words, in love.。
Growth is inextricably linked, related to love.。
Love is the definitive summary of growth.。
Love captures everything that is supposed to happen.。
Love is the life of God being poured into our lives.。
Love is the connecting glue that keeps us together.。
Love brings about smooth interfunctioning, much like oil.。
Love is the joy and desire to continuing functioning together in the future.。
Love has to be the motivation for us to equip the saints.。
Love also has to be the motivation for us to serve the community.。
Can I hear Amen?。
Amen.。
I am so excited that next week, Pastor John is going to be giving us a how-to, on equipping。
and how to share the gospel with others.。
And the week after, Pastor James is going to give us a how-to, a how to present the。
Word of God.。
I would love to pray for us now.。
And if I could just pray as the band comes up.。
Father, I thank you for your provision for us, for all that you've provided for us as。
a church.。
I pray now that you'd fill us once again with your Holy Spirit.。
In particular, Lord, that you'd allow us to speak the truth in love.。
Lord, I pray your love would shower upon us as a congregation, so that we would take your。
love out to a world and a community that needs it so desperately.。
We pray this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
Thank you guys and I'll see you in two weeks.。
