(silence)。
All right, so for the last few weeks,。
we've gone through 1 Timothy, the first five chapters.。
So if you haven't been with us, it's okay,。
it's still online, you can go back to it.。
So we've been talking about a few things.。
I don't know if you remember, let's see.。
What have, remember we've been upholding the truth,。
and then what else?。
To pray, to serve, to lead,。
and lastly, we also have to love.。
And this week we have one,。
it's the final charge from Apostle Paul to Timothy,。
it is to fight.。
I mean, what are we fighting for?。
And I love how all the songs today really led us into that.。
It is fighting the good fight of faith.。
Now we probably have heard of it every now and then,。
this saying, fight the good fight of faith.。
But what is it, what does that really look like?。
So we're gonna go through that today,。
1 Timothy, chapter six.。
Now speaking of fighting, I mean,。
the most recent movie I saw on fighting was Shang-Chi.。
So we're gonna show that, put that up.。
How many, how many of you have seen that movie?。
All right, good, good, good, quite a number of you,。
so I won't be spoiling it for everybody,。
I'll just spoil it for a few.。
And I mean, during, one of the WhatsApps we have seen。
is that a few of our people commented。
that one of our pastors。
looked kind of like the protagonist here.。
And so we got our, oh, there we go.。
I mean, we, yeah, a few of you took a few photos, so.。
We got our IT team together,。
which is like just Bonnie, by the way, to help us do this.。
And we also have a Tony Leung here,。
which is one of our deacons, you know, Tony.。
But, you know, I thought I wanna keep my job,。
so we won't put him on.。
So I mean, when we talk about fighting, right,。
these are the kind of things we're thinking about fighting.。
Fist, but actually from this story,。
oh, too early, too early, let's not show that yet.。
So from this, from this story, right,。
we wanna keep Johnny on for as long as possible.。
So from this story, actually, we see that Tony Leung。
actually gains these 10 rings,。
if you know what I'm talking about,。
and he gains this super power,。
and he almost becomes immortal 'cause he doesn't die.。
But the more power he got, the more he desired for it.。
Until a point when he met his wife,。
that's when he turned into the good guy,。
'cause he put down his rings, he's like,。
all right, I'm all for family.。
But then, of course, as the plot goes,。
his wife is then murdered, and once he's just full of rage,。
he puts these 10 rings back on,。
and he's ready for evil for evil, right?。
And so he has his son, Shang-Chi, now played by Johnny,。
but he's way too happy for this role.。
But I mean, if he were ever to go。
for a Hollywood star position, he would do well.。
So what we find is that he actually trains Shang-Chi,。
this Tony Leung, trains him to be an assassin.。
And so what we find is Shang-Chi says,。
no, and I'm gonna flee away from this.。
This kind of evilness is not what I want.。
He flees away from it, and he goes and pursues his life.。
That's a very different life, his own dreams.。
But eventually, of course, his dad finds him,。
and they have this big battle,。
and then he takes hold of what's really important to him.。
Now, what does this have to do with 1 Timothy 6?。
There is a lot to it, because we realize fighting。
is not just with our fists, but then there's three points。
that we can really learn from.。
And first, we see that it really is。
to flee away from what's bad.。
Okay, we can go to, yes.。
Flee away from what is bad, and then pursue what is good.。
And we're gonna go through what is bad, what is good.。
And that's to take hold of what is important.。
So let's go to 1 Timothy 6, verse 11 and 12, it says,。
"But you, man of God," this is Apostle Paul。
speaking to Timothy, "Flee from all this,"。
which we'll talk about, "and pursue righteousness,。
"goodness, faith, love, endurance, and gentleness.。
"Fight the good fight of faith.。
"Take hold of eternal life to which you were called."。
Now, all of these words, we're kind of like,。
okay, we get it, but so what are we doing?。
And basically, let's start with flee.。
Okay, flee from what?。
Now, if we look from the previous verses in a moment,。
we're gonna see it's talking about flee。
from the false teaching and love of money.。
Now, Paul's been going through some sort of false teaching,。
but every chapter has been slightly different.。
So what kind of false teaching is he talking about here?。
Now, if we read from verse three, it says,。
"If anyone teaches otherwise and does not agree。
"to the sound instruction of our Lord Jesus Christ。
"and the godly teaching,。
"they're conceited and understand nothing."。
So we know, okay, there are these false teachers,。
they don't really understand, they're against Jesus, okay.。
So the next verse says, "They have an unhealthy interest。
"in controversies and quarrels about words。
"that result in envy, strive, malicious talk,。
"evil suspicions, and constant friction。
"between people of corrupt mind。
"who have been robbed of the truth。
"and who think that godliness is a means to financial gain."。
So you see, these false teacher we're mentioning here,。
they're against God's doctrine.。
Again, we're not quite sure what they are,。
but if we read between the lines,。
we really see that there are these descriptions, okay.。
So they have unhealthy interests,。
and then we see five things that are listed here.。
Envy, strive, malicious talk,。
evil suspicion, and constant friction.。
Now, if you look at this list, okay,。
what is it that this list have in common,。
other than unhealthy interests, which already says,。
what do they have in common?。
I mean, why would anybody want these?。
I mean, who wants these?。
Why, what do they have in common?。
Well, you see, all of these things。
are talking about one thing, which is about me.。
Not me, but about the self.。
Every one of these items is talking about for yourself.。
I mean, envy, I mean, why would you envy someone?。
Well, because whatever it is that they have,。
you also want, right?。
Strive, you wanna like cause rivalry, because why?。
You wanna say, I'm better than you.。
So I'm gonna prove that I'm right and you're wrong.。
And malicious talk, why do you wanna talk badly of others?。
Well, you wanna judge them, you wanna say you're better.。
So it's like self lifting, you're lifting yourself up.。
And by saying these evil suspicions,。
like you're saying they have these evil intentions.。
When all of us, all along, you're the one that has it,。
not you, but I mean, the people, the false teacher,。
all the ones that have it.。
And they constantly will fight and argue with other people,。
just for one thing, which is to lift themselves up,。
put others down, and everything, if we read it,。
is actually to a point where they're robbed of the truth。
and think that godliness is a means to financial gains.。
So sometimes these people have gone so far。
that they've lost what is most important.。
You see, the difference between sound teaching。
and false teaching is that it's all about you。
and your own benefits rather than other people.。
And they're using money in the wrong way.。
Now, one of the examples we probably have heard before。
is that there might be preachers and leaders。
who misuse money in a way that is so bad。
it's for their own interests.。
Now, one of them, I'm gonna use today an example,。
which is Kong He, he is the founder。
of City Harvest Church in Singapore.。
And he was convicted of fraud。
after spending millions of Thai。
to fund his wife's music career.。
And this is a classic example of where sometimes。
our heart can be so torn or so dragged into other desires。
that we actually lose the focus of what's important.。
And so that's why in verse six to 10, it says,。
"But godliness with contentment is great.。
For we brought nothing into the world。
and we can take nothing out of it.。
But if we have food and clothing, we'll be content."。
You know, there's something about contentment。
that gives us a great gain.。
Now, we're quite sure that Apostle Paul。
is probably not talking about monetary gain。
'cause he's just said that all these。
are not really that important.。
And so there must be a greater gain.。
And what is that?。
Contentment gives us a greater gain。
than what money could buy us.。
But what gain is that?。
Now, we read to the next verse, it says,。
"Those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap。
and into many foolish and harmful desires。
that plunge people into ruins and destructions."。
So what we see is the flip side.。
If we don't have contentment,。
we're gonna fall into the temptations,。
we're gonna fall into these destructions.。
So what is this greater gain that we could have。
if we have contentment is that we will not fall。
into these temptations, we will not be destroyed.。
And so why?。
For the next verse, it says,。
"For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil.。
Some people eager for money have wandered from their faith。
and pierced themselves with many griefs."。
Which was the example that we've just used earlier.。
Because, okay, so money is not the root。
of all kinds of evil, that's not what the verse says.。
But the love of money is.。
Now, why is because if our heart is already filled。
with all these desires for more things,。
we won't have a space to do what's right.。
I mean, maybe you can say,。
"Well, I'm pretty sure all of us here, we don't love money.。
I mean, we don't hate it definitely,。
but I mean, who hates it?。
Let me know 'cause then, yeah, anyways."。
Anyways, but rather or not you love money or not,。
it actually is a part of our everyday life, right?。
The moment you wake up, the place that you live in,。
well, that costs money.。
The breakfast that you have, well, unless you're fasting,。
you're having breakfast.。
And then the clothes that you wear,。
and then the job that you have,。
whether it's this one or that one。
is gonna be a big difference depending on the pay, right?。
And depending on the spouse you choose,。
you're gonna have a different lifestyle altogether.。
So you see, the reason that it is the root,。
the reason that the love of money。
can be the root of all evil。
is because it's tapped into every single part of our lives.。
And so if we love it so much,。
then how can we choose between what God wants us to do。
and our own personal desires?。
How can we choose that?。
And so that's why we need to see。
that the love of money is the root of all evil.。
And so I still remember a time,。
I mean, this is a pastoral letter,。
which means that it's really meant for leaders.。
And you might be saying to yourself,。
well, I'm not a leader, so all this false teaching,。
I'm not leading church in that direction,。
what does that have to do with me?。
But the thing is, we need to guard ourselves。
against those teachings,。
as well as to know that we ourselves need to flee from it.。
And so I remember a time when I went to a meeting。
in another church, not this one, not Kung Fu, okay?。
And where the pastor misused a part of the passage。
of Mark 4:20, and he said, you know,。
today, he told us that day,。
God is asking you to put all your money in your purse。
into the offering bag, and he's gonna bless it。
by 30 folds, 60 folds, 100 folds.。
And in that moment, he also told us his testimony.。
He said, when I gave all of my salary to God,。
actually, the following week, my money came back,。
and it was doubled as much.。
Now, hearing what he said, both a little bit fearing,。
because he said, God told us, and also because,。
well, it's also nice to double my money, right?。
So I said, okay, I'll put in all the money。
that I had in my wallet.。
And I have to say, it's a little bit painful for me,。
because that day, I think I just came back from Canada,。
so I had about a few thousand dollars。
of Canadian dollars there.。
So I was like, all of it, okay, all of it.。
I'm glad I had my octopus card so I can go home.。
And so a few weeks later, you know,。
it's kind of like, oh, you know, God,。
no, nothing's coming back, and, you know,。
I don't know where the doubling went,。
and I still vividly remember, you know,。
an impression from God that kind of said,。
well, I never said your money would double.。
And what I wanted to say is, I mean,。
we need to be discerning.。
I'm not saying that everybody, you know,。
sometimes we have hosts who comes up and say,。
okay, it's time for offer.。
I'm not saying that that's not good,。
but if you feel like you're being pushed to give,。
or you feel like that the preacher or the teacher。
is telling you that this is a means。
to gain financial gains, then we gotta be careful.。
And so the second way, the first way is to flee。
from what is false, which is about ourselves,。
and also for the love of money.。
Now, the second thing that we should do。
is to pursue these virtues.。
Now, remember in verse 11, it says,。
we need to pursue righteousness, godliness,。
faith, love, endurance, and gentleness.。
And interestingly enough, when we find this list,。
it's actually the exact opposite of what we heard earlier.。
I mean, righteousness is actually compared。
to foolish and harmful desires.。
And godliness with contentment,。
remember we talked about contentment.。
Once we're content, we no longer need to go。
after these financial gains.。
And again, faith, and then we won't be robbed of the truth.。
We won't be wandering from our faith.。
We need to go after love, endurance, and gentleness.。
So he's asking us, hey, go after these things.。
Flee away from the bad and go after these things.。
But this is one of the harder questions.。
I mean, how can we pursue these things?。
'Cause it's easy to have a list.。
I mean, how do you go about doing that?。
Well, it really is about this contentment。
that we talk about.。
If we are content with what God has given us,。
then why would our hearts be dragged away to somewhere else?。
I mean, imagine, I mean, if you see a nice car zooming by,。
right, don't start to imagine, well, it would be nice。
if I'm in that car, start imagining like a pretty girl。
next to you, right?。
Like be content.。
Maybe you go on the bus, like wow,。
what a spacious bus I have, right?。
(audience laughing)。
Look at your wife, beautiful, all the time.。
And, or if you're like scrolling your Facebook, right,。
don't be like, oh wow, that's a big house.。
Look at my apartment.。
But be content.。
We can train ourselves to be content.。
Maybe we'll repaint the walls, put some nice light.。
Just be content.。
And when we are, our hearts will not be pulled。
here and there, and we can pursue these goodness.。
And we can do good.。
We can be, we can see the injustice in the world。
and we can go and we can like look after the widows。
and the orphans and we can have faith in God.。
And so this nicely leads us into a third point,。
which is to take hold of the eternal life.。
Now when we hear these, it seems that we know。
all these words, take hold, we know, okay.。
Eternal life, we know.。
Okay, how do we take hold of the eternal life?。
That we don't really know.。
But here it tells us, fight the good five of faith.。
Take hold of eternal life to which you were called。
when you were made your good confession。
in presence of many witnesses.。
Now the moment that we've received Christ into our lives,。
we have been called to a higher living.。
We're no longer living for materials anymore,。
not for the temporal, but we're living for the eternal,。
something greater.。
And in verse 13 and 14 it says,。
in sight of God who gives life to everything。
and of Jesus Christ, who while testifying。
before pointless Pilate, made the good confession,。
I charge you to keep this command,。
which is to make that good confession,。
without spot or blame until the appearing。
of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
And Paul's really saying this, and he continues by saying,。
which God would bring about in his own time,。
God the blessed and the only ruler,。
the King of kings and Lord of lords,。
who alone is immortal and who lives。
in unapproachable light, whom no one has seen or can see.。
To him be honor and might forever, amen.。
I mean, why does he put all those together?。
He's saying that if we are to take hold。
of this eternal life, we have to think about who God is.。
I mean, a lot of times we think,。
oh, God is this loving father, you know,。
who take care of us wherever we are.。
But look at all these words that he's putting out.。
The blessed one, the only ruler,。
the King of kings and Lord of lords, we say that,。
but do we think about that?。
And who alone is immortal, unapproachable light.。
Wow.。
You know, just like the song we sang earlier,。
you know, like glory and holy and how great is he.。
That is what our eyes needs to be fixated on.。
And so, I mean, what does that life really look like?。
What is a life that's, you know, it's fleeing away,。
is running away from false teaching and love of money?。
What does a life look like?。
Who is pursuing all these goodness。
and taking hold of this eternal life?。
What's it like?。
Well, a few days ago, I saw a post online。
by my friend who shared about her mother.。
They're both from Korea, but now my friends in Hong Kong.。
And with her permission, I'm gonna share this with you.。
It reads like this.。
It's a Facebook post.。
"Winter is approaching.。
"Got my mother a white sweater.。
"She's someone who finds hard to buy anything for herself.。
"Her whole life was for others.。
"How can a person be so other-centered?。
"Her DNA and heart is twinned so differently and beautifully.。
"I've tried to educate her to spend some money on herself,。
"but realized her whole life pattern wasn't like that.。
"It's easier for me just to observe what she needs。
"and gets it for her.。
"That's it.。
"When she left, temporarily, she says,。
"Africa, after 28 years of pouring her heart,。
"all her belongings were able to be packed。
"in a small luggage.。
"Even inside that, half was filled with her medical stuff,。
"goodbye cards from orphanage,。
"and special needs children she had been loving so dear.。
"Her bank account had dollars,。
"just enough to buy a plane ticket.。
"Nothing was invested.。
"Three of us, my sister, brother, and I, had meetings.。
"How to support her continually.。
"I must say it was a burden, but a very thankful burden.。
"I cannot understand how one's life can be so simple。
"and not attached to this world at all.。
"Someone whose perspective, dreams, and treasures。
"are always on the things above.。
"She is special.。
"Her name is Sun Hee Lim.。
"The kids of the orphanage call her Sunny."。
And so a few days ago, she just arrived to Hong Kong.。
And now she's actually being quarantined,。
and I've sent her the link,。
so she's most likely online with us.。
So she just wanted to say hi, Sunny,。
and you can all wave to her at the back.。
Hi, Sunny, hi, Ara.。
I mean, what a beautiful life this is.。
This is an extraordinary woman.。
And she went to Namibia, Africa, for 28 years.。
Now, early in her life, she was trying to find fundings。
from over 50 churches in Korea.。
And each church would give her around $100 to $200,。
Hong Kong dollars, to support her.。
Now, most of the missionaries would find at least 150%。
of what they need before they would leave the country.。
But just with 70% of what she had, she already left.。
And before she left, she gave everything that she had away,。
especially the clothes that needed dry cleaning.。
Apparently, she knows that there's no dry cleaning in Africa.。
And when she was there, she focused on evangelizing,。
Bible study, and supporting her husband's missions work.。
In her later years, she focused on the special needs children.。
But in 2003, she was diagnosed with cancer.。
And in the same year, her husband passed away.。
But that did not stop her from doing her missionary work.。
Actually, over the next 10 years, she had over 10 surgeries.。
And each of those surgeries,。
she had to remove an organ after an organ,。
because the cancer has spread to different places.。
And yet each time, right after she finished her surgery,。
when she could just barely stand,。
she would go back to Africa.。
Because she remembered the children, like all these photos,。
she remembered her, she remembered them in her hands,。
and she said she had to go back.。
I mean, there were moments when she wanted to give up,。
because it was so painful.。
Imagine going through all those.。
And there was so much difficulties in front of her.。
Do you know what she did in those times?。
She said she would read the Bible。
from Genesis to Revelation,。
day and night until it was finished.。
And she said that kept her going.。
It comforted her and gave her the strength to press on.。
And so she didn't stop until 2009.。
She came back, she went back to Korea,。
in which COVID limited her to go back again for now.。
All the finances, all the funds,。
100%, she said, went to all the people.。
She did not have any investment of her own.。
No retirement plans, no NPF.。
And yet she always looked above,。
trusting daily all that she has in need.。
I'm very moved by her story,。
because I think, what are we doing?。
My question to you, to me also,。
what are we doing here?。
I mean, how many luggages of things。
do you and I have at home?。
I don't think I can pack all my shoes in one luggage.。
I mean, how much of our resources。
do we do for the good of others?。
And how much hardship are we willing to endure for the Lord?。
I mean, are we equal to the glory of the Lord。
that we just talked about?。
The Lord of Lords, the King of Kings.。
Are we thinking about ourselves most of the time?。
When we look at our internet search。
and see what we've been searching up the last few days,。
we can look at the bills that we pay。
and look at where it all went to.。
We'll have a better idea, a fact check.。
And maybe to some extent, I think,。
we're not very different from the false teachers.。
You know, sure, I mean, we don't go around。
using our Christian stand to try to sell you anything.。
But maybe in our hearts somewhere,。
we actually think that God is for our own benefit。
to prosper us, to bless us.。
And Paul does say, you know,。
he is there but for greater gain, an eternal one.。
Except, I don't know, how often do we see that?。
How often do we take hold of this eternal life?。
Or are we still living for the temporal?。
Now, I'm not saying that Paul's telling us,。
you know, don't enjoy anything.。
That's not what he's saying.。
We should enjoy the toils of our work.。
But what I am saying, and I believe that Paul is saying,。
is that, and later in the few verses which we won't get to,。
is to remind those, especially the wealthy ones,。
to do good, to do good, good deeds,。
to serve those, the orphans, the widows, the ones in need.。
And so what may that look like to us?。
Maybe we'll support a kid if we can't go there.。
And I don't think we should all。
fly out to Africa tomorrow.。
But maybe we'll support a kid in the third world country.。
Maybe we have widows around us.。
Maybe we'll visit them.。
Orphans, let's buy them some gifts。
and share the time together.。
Maybe we'll volunteer for an organization。
that we believe is worthwhile.。
Maybe instead of buying new clothes,。
next time we pick it up, like, do I really need this?。
What can I do with this money?。
What can I do with my time?。
The love of money is the root of all evil.。
May we be content.。
May we pursue all the goodness.。
I mean, look at these photos.。
I think it says and it tells us。
what it means to uphold that eternal life.。
So I charge you today, and also myself,。
fight the good fight of faith.。
Flee from those false teaching.。
And the love of money is not about us.。
And for us to pursue what is good,。
when our heart is wide, when we're content, we can.。
And so always look and take hold of that eternal life。
which we are called to, because God is good。
and he's worthy of every ounce of our offering.。
May he have all the glory.。
Let us pray together.。
Dear heavenly Father,。
you are the King of kings and Lord of lords.。
You are the immortal, the unapproachable light.。
Oh, Father, help us to fix our eyes on you。
and to know that you've given us a greater gain。
than the materialistic world that we see.。
Father, help us to live a life。
that is worthy of the calling that you have for us.。
Father, help us each day to live just the way。
that you want us to.。
May your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.。
May you have all the honor and glory.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
