Oh dear, Merry Christmas again everyone.。
It's good to see you all.。
Christmas Day is a very special day for my family and I.。
Our kids woke up extra early today to do, what did we do?。
Open Christmas presents.。
I did Google it, it's apparently the right day。
to open Christmas presents today.。
Google's always right, and actually to be fair,。
every day is a good day to open presents.。
And I was just thinking, you know what?。
We've made Christmas about a lot of things,。
and these two are threatening to make it。
about sloths and cats and llamas.。
Of course, most saying that it's not about the jingle bells,。
but I love gift giving.。
There's something about the exchange of gifts。
that is beautiful, that is exactly what Christmas is about.。
I don't know if you've all watched it yet,。
yesterday as a family, we watched the Netflix film,。
A Boy Called Christmas.。
We had a hot pot and we just watched the movie together。
and one of the lines was, "Christmas is special。
"because it's the kindest day in the year."。
It's the kindest day, it's the day that we get。
this ultimate gift.。
So it isn't about the jingle bells, it's not about Santa,。
it's not about the Christmas trees necessarily.。
It's about the gift that was given to us.。
But somehow we've made Christmas about something。
very different, right?。
Even those of us who have grown up in the church,。
we know it's about Jesus and we say it's about Jesus,。
but then we make it about so many other things.。
Of course, that's us in the church,。
and in the world, of course, it's turned。
into this completely different thing.。
A couple weeks ago, we went into Landmark,。
the shopping center, we've been here for three years now,。
and one thing that still never ceases to amaze me。
is the shopping malls and the Christmas displays。
that go on there.。
They're just incredible.。
And the Landmark one is, actually I can't even describe,。
who's been to the Landmark Christmas display?。
Yeah, it's really quite hard to describe, right?。
There's just flying aliens, and I'll just leave it there.。
And I was just standing there going,。
what have flying aliens got to do with Christmas?。
I don't know, but it looks cool.。
I can't explain it, but it's not really Christmas.。
So then it got me thinking, what is it about Christmas?。
It's definitely not flying aliens。
'cause that's too ridiculous.。
It's gotta be about, it's about baby Jesus.。
And then I stopped for a second and thought,。
isn't that quite ridiculous?。
Can you just pause for a second?。
Like when we say, oh, that's ridiculous,。
it's not about Santa, it's not about Christmas tree,。
it's about a baby.。
And you're like, well, what is it with the baby?。
But it's because the baby was the greatest gift。
that was ever given.。
It was read to us earlier, Isaiah chapter nine.。
The people were walking in deep darkness,。
but then a child is born, a son is given,。
and the government will be upon his shoulders,。
and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor,。
Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.。
But still, to think that a baby。
caused this to happen is ridiculous.。
But just to give you a little bit more context for that,。
that was Isaiah nine.。
And this was by a prophet called Isaiah。
who lived 800 years before Jesus was even born.。
And the context of this is in Isaiah seven,。
he already said, and we had it read again,。
there will be a virgin that will conceive.。
Again, can we not just keep flying。
and being completely just nonchalant。
about these crazy claims about what is happening?。
A virgin conceives, what?。
And will give birth to, and God will be with you.。
Emmanuel, God is gonna be with you.。
So if you're an Israelite at that moment,。
you're being oppressed by a foreign nation.。
You must be like, God is finally gonna be with us.。
He's gonna be six, he's gonna be seven foot tall,。
and he's gonna help us destroy the enemies.。
And it will be, and then verse chapter nine,。
and it will be a child.。
It will be a baby.。
And this Christmas series, we've looked at shepherds,。
we've looked at angels, the wise men,。
and now we're looking at the baby Jesus.。
Why is it?。
What is so special about this baby。
that has caused this world to turn completely upside down?。
He split time in half, and now we, all of us,。
believers or not, will celebrate this day。
because of this baby.。
Have we ever stopped to think why?。
Why?。
Why do we keep exchanging these gifts。
and giving these gifts to each other?。
It's because there was a gift that was given to us.。
A son was given to us.。
And of course, the greatest,。
the whole point of this was love, to show us love,。
to show us God's love,。
to show how deep the Father's love for us。
that he would give his only son to die for us.。
That's what it was to show us,。
but I think there's something else.。
I think Christmas, I think the baby Jesus。
teaches us something else.。
It's to show us love, but it's to teach us humility.。
It was to teach us humility,。
and that's what I'm gonna focus on today,。
at least for the next just 10 minutes or so.。
And I want us to think about this.。
Why did Jesus have to come as a baby,。
and why did he have to come the way he came?。
So just, again, it was read by Reuben to us earlier.。
So what happens in Luke chapter two is。
the Emperor Augustus, Caesar Augustus,。
who's the adopted son of the Julius Caesar,。
he orders a census that needs to be taken.。
So everyone needs to go back to their hometown.。
And Augustus himself is interesting.。
He's the first one, he's the first one who's emperor。
who's been called Augustus.。
And what does Augustus mean?。
Augustus means holy and revered.。
Why?。
Because the people wanted to appoint an emperor。
and appoint him as a god.。
They wanted to turn a man into god.。
What's interesting is this man who wanted to become god。
ends up ordering a census that then ushers in。
god who becomes man.。
So it's the pride of man that ushers in。
the arrival of this baby Jesus,。
where god himself becomes man, to show us humility.。
And can you imagine, for those of you who have been。
pregnant, who have given birth,。
who know what it's like to hold a baby within your womb,。
they got this news when Mary was just about to give birth.。
It wasn't far off, it was a week or two.。
So she was big and she was heavy.。
And they had to go from Nazareth back to Bethlehem.。
Can you imagine?。
And of course, this isn't, oh, okay, let's go back,。
I'm gonna call an Uber and we'll get back now.。
It's about 90 miles away.。
It would have taken about four, five days.。
Can you imagine, okay, Mary, of course,。
had to do all the bearing and all the carrying,。
but can you imagine, I can just imagine as a husband,。
as Joseph, I'm just like, you want me to take my very,。
very, very, very pregnant wife to walk through forests。
and valleys for five days to do this stupid census?。
And she could give birth at any moment.。
We could meet wild boars and we could all be going,。
what is it?。
But they had no choice, so they had to go.。
And Luke is very interesting.。
He tells us about Caesar Augustus.。
He tells us about the governor Quirinius.。
He tells us about Jesus.。
Why?。
To tell us that this really did happen.。
This wasn't just a fairy tale.。
This wasn't just a story.。
This was an event that actually happened.。
And so then they go on this journey。
and eventually they get to Bethlehem.。
Of course, as during this time,。
Bethlehem would have been completely crowded with people.。
So then what did they do?。
They went looking.。
Usually they would have found a relative。
who they could stay with,。
but now they couldn't because the town was completely full.。
Their relatives probably had a full house themselves.。
So they said, don't worry, we'll go and find an inn,。
but the inns were full.。
And then they went looking around in all the inns。
and eventually, this is like trying to book。
a COVID quarantine hotel.。
And so they just kept looking and looking and looking。
until they couldn't find any.。
And there was one innkeeper that said, fine,。
there's no room, but I have a stable.。
I have a stable, which again,。
there probably weren't all kinds of animals there.。
There probably just have been donkeys and cows.。
And so they had no choice because actually at this point,。
Mary was probably contracting.。
Braxton Hicks, have we heard of those?。
Those attempts of trying to get the baby out.。
And then it's kind of like, oh my goodness, okay, fine.。
We'll take the stable.。
We'll take the stable with the donkey.。
I'll give birth there.。
And that's the context.。
But you see, why did God have to do it?。
You see, God used Jesus to turn the world upside down,。
to usher in his new kingdom.。
Surely he would have made room for his son.。
You see, if it was you and I trying to save the world,。
we probably wouldn't have picked the smallest town.。
Micah 5.2.。
So Isaiah wrote this 800 years ago.。
Another 100 years after that,。
which is 700 years before Jesus,。
the prophet Micah says,。
oh you little town of Bethlehem.。
That's where the song comes from.。
A little town of Bethlehem.。
One of the smallest clans, Judah.。
From you will come, from you, out of you will come for me。
one who will be ruler over Israel,。
whose origins are from of old, from ancient times.。
Whose origins are from old, from ancient times.。
Which literally means,。
whose beginning is from the days of eternity.。
Why did God in all his power did not choose a big palace?。
You know from Bethlehem, one mile,。
there was King Herod's palace.。
He called it the Herodium.。
At 200 marble steps.。
It had a swimming pool。
that was twice the size of Olympic swimming pools.。
Why, if it was us, we would probably say,。
okay, this savior of the world,。
we're gonna have him born in the place。
right at the top of the hill.。
This palace that is filled with light and shine,。
so everyone can see that I'm here to save the world.。
No, he goes the opposite way.。
Why?。
To teach us something about humility.。
God came to transform this world,。
to rescue this mankind,。
to turn this world upside down,。
and he wanted to show us。
to not conform to the patterns of this world.。
And so he chose Bethlehem.。
He chose a stable.。
He became poor,。
so we could become rich.。
The Christmas story shows what love is,。
but it teaches us what humility is.。
And from there, we see that actually,。
Jesus grows up and shows more of humility.。
We have all heard this word before.。
What does the word humility mean?。
There's lots and lots of different definitions,。
but maybe to start with, to go with humility,。
let's have a look at the word pride.。
And again, there's lots of definitions.。
We all know what pride and humility are.。
There's lots of definitions of them.。
One of my personal favorites。
is by a man called Tim Keller, who said,。
"Pride is when you take credit。
"for something you don't deserve."。
It's an interesting angle on it.。
It's when you take credit。
for something that you don't deserve.。
Someone who's prideful is saying,。
"Oh, this was all me.。
"This is all about me."。
When actually, we all know that at a moment's notice,。
we could lose everything。
that we've ever worked hard for.。
So pride is taking credit。
for something that you don't deserve.。
For me, humility is knowing exactly what you are worth,。
knowing exactly what you are worth.。
And I've said this before.。
Pride and insecurity,。
even though they're opposite things,。
they're actually part of the same circle.。
Have you ever thought about why someone who is,。
why is someone prideful?。
Why is someone constantly wanting。
to tell you about themselves and boast?。
It's because they're feeling insecure,。
because they don't know their worth.。
And then someone who's insecure,。
why are they so insecure?。
Why do we feel, "Oh, I can't do anything."。
Who said, whoever said you could do anything?。
We can only do things through Christ.。
So actually, in some way,。
an insecure person is also prideful.。
So it's this circle, it's this cycle.。
And God uses the Christmas story,。
uses baby Jesus in a manger in Bethlehem。
to teach us humility.。
Again, it's been said plenty of times.。
Rick Warren has said this,。
C.S. Lewis has said it,。
but I think they probably said it the best,。
which was humility is not thinking any less of yourself.。
It's thinking of yourself less.。
It's not saying, "Oh, I can't do this,。
"I can't do that, I'm no good."。
No, it's not that.。
Humility, true humility,。
is when you just stop thinking about yourself full stop,。
when you recognize that it's not about you.。
'Cause here's the problem.。
When we have this, the world tells us,。
focus on yourself, get everything that you need,。
climb up this ladder so you can be at the top.。
The problem is, when it's just all about you,。
you recognize that you are imperfect,。
and it's never, never enough.。
That's what this story is trying to tell us,。
that you, on your own, if you are the end goal,。
if you are the end game, if you are the destination,。
it is not enough.。
Think about this culture that we live in right now,。
this selfie culture where it's all about us,。
where we put filters on our posts。
before we post anything out,。
because we want everyone to see us。
the way we want them to see us.。
This narcissistic culture that we live in,。
everything, do for you.。
Facebook listens to our conversations,。
and then pops us adverts of things that we kind of want,。
and so we keep seeing them,。
and eventually we buy them on Facebook,。
because they're just there all the time.。
Everything is just about you, satisfy you.。
But here's the problem.。
In this society where everything is encouraging you。
to make yourself happy, what do we end up with?。
We end up with the most people with depression.。
We end up with the most people with anxiety。
that we've ever known before.。
This, something doesn't add up。
when you just focus on yourself,。
when you try and complete, climb,。
and make achievements on this side.。
Something doesn't add up.。
It seems as though as you try to reach higher for this side,。
you only go lower and lower yourself.。
The Christmas story reminds us about humility.。
The key is to know our place and to know our worth,。
and Jesus did that not only as a baby,。
but also as a man.。
Luke chapter two, verse 52,。
he grows up in stature and wisdom.。
How did you see Jesus with his humility?。
With who he hung out with.。
He would associate with himself,。
with the outcasts of society,。
the poor, the children, the women.。
Throughout his whole life, he's showing us,。
and he's teaching us humility because he knew his worth,。
because he knew who he was.。
He knew what he was here for,。
and that's why he didn't mind being a baby born in a manger.。
But instead, he knew exactly what his worth was.。
A no passage highlights this better,。
and I wanna borrow Reuben's lovely Bible here。
'cause it's a version that I've only just discovered,。
and it's quite nice to read.。
He knew what this was,。
and just this passage in Philippians。
just highlights it just in the most beautiful way.。
It was actually a song.。
Philippians chapter two.。
I realize I can't talk and scroll at the same time.。
I must be a male.。
Okay, here we go, I found it.。
Oh, multitasking, oh.。
Philippians chapter two, verse five.。
Let me read it to you, and you'll know it,。
but it's just a slightly different version.。
In your relationships with one another,。
have the same mindset as Christ Jesus.。
What is this mindset?。
Who, being in very nature God,。
did not consider equality with God。
something to be used to his own advantage.。
Rather, he made himself nothing。
by taking the very nature of a servant,。
being made in human likeness,。
and being found in appearance as a man.。
He humbled himself by becoming obedient to death,。
even death on a cross.。
Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place。
and gave him the name that is above every name,。
that at the name of Jesus,。
every knee should bow in heaven and on earth。
and under the earth,。
and every tongue acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord,。
to the glory of God the Father.。
There's this masterful way。
of talking about Christ's humility。
and then his exaltation,。
how he humbled himself.。
You see, Jesus was humble as a person living in this world。
with what he did, who he associated with,。
but his most humble act。
was coming from heaven to earth。
when he considered equality with God。
something that he could let go.。
And he emptied himself to die for us。
to the point of death and death on a cross.。
I think Christmas is an appropriate time。
for us to recalibrate,。
to recalibrate, to remind ourselves that it's not about us.。
But in the story, in the true story,。
an event of the Messiah being born in a manger,。
he shows us love and he teaches us humility,。
the greatest gift that was given.。
As we exchange gifts this Christmas,。
let us remember that Jesus exchanged things for us too.。
He took in death and gave us life.。
He took in shame so we could be free.。
He took in our darkness and he shone in the light.。
He took on the wages of our sin。
so we could be written in the pages of heaven.。
That exchange, that humble exchange,。
that beautiful exchange is the reason why we sit here today.。
It's the reason why we get to celebrate.。
It's the reason for the season.。
Let us pray.。
Jesus, we come before you and we humble ourselves.。
This Christmas, we commit to thinking of ourselves less.。
But right now, as the ladies read,。
this season is all about thinking。
and caring for those in need.。
Not out of sympathy or charity,。
but because we realize and we recognize。
that we were in need,。
that we were in need of a Savior and you came to save us.。
So Jesus, we come before you and we bow down。
and we just recognize how loving you are to us.。
Would you show us once again,。
especially during this Christmas season,。
how to be made in your image,。
to be dressed with love and humility in this season.。
We thank you for saving us.。
Thank you for saving us.。
It's in your name we pray, amen.。
Just before I pass over to the worship team,。
there's this wonderful quote,。
just highlighting our need for a Savior.。
A.W. Tozer writes,。
"If our greatest need had been information,。
"God would have sent an educator.。
"If our greatest need had been technology,。
"God would have sent us a scientist.。
"If our greatest need had been money,。
"God would have sent us an economist.。
"If our greatest need had been pleasure,。
"God would have sent us an entertainer.。
"Our greatest need was for forgiveness.。
"So God sent us a Savior."。
(gentle music)。
