Good evening, everybody.。
One day I was invited to the Chinese International School in Fremont Hill.。
It was billed as their religion day.。
Also invited were a Catholic priest, a Buddhist monk, and a Jewish rabbi.。
We all had the opportunity to address the pupils.。
And this was followed by a series of questions and answers.。
The very last question was this.。
How does your religion differ from all the others?。
My fellow panelists all gave a similar answer, albeit dressed in a slightly different format.。
Basically what they were saying is that we are all the same and it is just a different。
way of expressing it.。
I was the last to answer.。
I said, I can see where my colleagues are coming from, but sadly I cannot agree with。
that answer.。
For in Christianity we have this thing called grace, G-R-A-C-E, God's riches at Christ's。
expense.。
In fact I said that Christianity is not so much a religion as a relationship.。
It's not about us trying to reach God by good works and devotion, but instead God reaching。
us through the death of his son, Jesus Christ.。
Suffice to say I was not invited back the next year.。
We are in the eighth week of our series, Don't Give the Enemy a Seat at Your Table.。
We've been looking at the dangers of exposing our lives to the evil one, giving him an inch。
and watching him take a mile.。
We have looked at his deadly lies exposed, the spiral of sin and taking every thought。
captive.。
We've been speaking about denying the enemy.。
But what happens if you give the enemy a seat at your table?。
Acting, chin, can you be the enemy for a minute?。
Can you just sit down?。
Give him a round of applause.。
Nothing personal.。
What happens if you give the enemy a seat at your table anyway?。
Is that curtains?。
The end of our series, finito?。
And that's where my CIS answer comes in.。
The answer is simple.。
No.。
The essence of the gospel is that God forgives sins through Jesus Christ and makes you new.。
But there is a requirement.。
Confession.。
Confession when you repent, God wipes out your sins.。
God forgives you and cleanses you and God ejects the devil from your table.。
Thank you.。
Look at this, Proverbs 28, 13.。
Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but whoever confesses and forsakes。
them will obtain mercy.。
Yet you know, even after we confess our sins, two things often linger.。
Those two things are guilt and shame.。
Guilt and shame.。
Often they get lumped together, but they're actually very different.。
Guilt is the position of being accountable for sins and shortcoming.。
It's a legal term that points to remorse.。
We get examples of it when we have our courts with the judge.。
I remember a few years ago, it was my birthday.。
Sandra remember this?。
You didn't tell me where we were going, do you remember?。
And I was driving the car and I was actually just here going up towards Cotton Tree Drive。
and a policeman stopped me.。
He said, "You are guilty of careless driving."。
Careless driving me?。
Anyway, I get a letter through the post.。
I had to go to court.。
The judge was there.。
Have you anything to say before I give sentence?。
No.。
So what I got was points and a fine.。
I was guilty.。
And yet in spiritual terms, you've given the enemy a seat at your table.。
Fear, pride, anxiety, lust, a lack of trust.。
The gavel comes down, the verdict comes in.。
You've fallen short of the glory of God and yes, you are responsible for it.。
You are guilty.。
Shame on the other hand, is the feeling of being defined by your sin and shortcomings.。
Shame acknowledges guilt, yet somehow intertwines the sin with your identity.。
Guilt is a legal and spiritual state.。
Shame is an emotional and mental state.。
In guilt, you admit you did something wrong.。
I have done something wrong.。
I have fought something bad.。
In shame, you take the sin upon yourself and you say, I am something wrong.。
I am bad.。
Even though they are separate, guilt and shame have the same solution.。
And I need to tell you this tonight.。
The pathway to freedom from both guilt and shame is the story of grace.。
Spiritual justice has a social framework and restitution.。
That's how I got my 12 points, or where I was on my license and my fine.。
Yet the ultimate solution is always the grace of God.。
There are many people in this room, many people listening online, who are walking around like。
this.。
You're walking around and you're carrying the weight of guilt and shame.。
It prevents us from walking in the freedom purchased for us at the cross.。
My friends, it doesn't have to be that way.。
We can have victory.。
I love this expression.。
I'll put it on the screen.。
The grit, the grit of grace.。
The pathway of freedom is open to all people in the covering of grace.。
But it's not airy fairy or flimsy.。
Grace has grit, backbone and muscle.。
You remember the film True Grit with John Wayne.。
There's nothing airy fairy about John Wayne, I tell you.。
Shane once said, "Grace is the left hook that destroys the power of sin."。
Firstly, let's see how grace destroys shame.。
Shame is a powerfully destructive force.。
It causes you to feel as if you're unworthy of God's love, unworthy of God's acceptance,。
purposes and plans.。
Shame causes us to feel so marred, so strongly that we feel damaged beyond repair.。
When you feel shame, you're always trying to hide.。
You try and hide from God behind denial or by trying to keep out of his way.。
Or you hide from people.。
You hide behind layers, walls, titles, accomplishments or in Hong Kong, especially busyness.。
You don't want anyone to know you.。
So you keep people away at arm's length.。
Or you don't want people to know what happened to you.。
Shame imprisons you and me to the past.。
How very telling that when God created Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, we read in。
Genesis 2.25, "And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed."。
Everything that God created was described as good and being naked and unashamed was。
part of the goodness of paradise.。
Yes, the garden was beautiful.。
Yes, there were plants and food and animals.。
Everything was in perfect condition.。
Note that the ultimate description of goodness in paradise was a lack of shame.。
The Hebrew word for this was al-min.。
It means naked and unashamed.。
Then came the fall.。
Adam and Eve made disastrous decisions that resulted in huge consequences.。
Earth broke apart as a result of their choices.。
And both guilt and shame entered into this story and into ours too.。
One minute, Adam and Eve were naked and unashamed.。
The next minute, they were hiding from God, trying to cover themselves with fig leaves.。
They had exchanged the al-min, naked and unashamed, for al-rum.。
Notice the play here on Hebrew words.。
Al-min, al-rum, and al-rum means deceitfulness, guilt, and shame.。
However, back in the garden, God formed a rescue plan.。
With Adam and Eve, he clothed the two humans in garments of animal skin that he'd made。
for them.。
But what God did was this.。
He pointed to the future and to the cross of Jesus.。
When the serpent, representing Satan, would harm Jesus by striking his heel.。
But Jesus would gain full victory by crushing the serpent's head.。
Let's read it.。
"I will put enmity between you," that's the serpent, "and the woman, and between your。
offspring and her offspring.。
He will bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel."。
In other words, God would destroy sin and death and fully reconnect people to the purposes。
and the personhood of God.。
Thanks to the work of Jesus on the cross, you and I can live free from shame.。
My friends, don't let that truth pass you by.。
Shame does not need to be part of your story.。
We'll talk more about this in a little bit.。
Second, let's look at how grace is also the solution to guilt.。
The grace of God moves into your story and through the work of Jesus on the cross, the。
grace of God cancels your spiritual guilt and sets you free.。
Grace positions you rightly before God.。
Yes, there is a penalty to be paid for wrongdoings.。
Yet Jesus has already taken that penalty, the penalty of sin for you.。
Jesus has set you free.。
We see hints of the grace that you and I did enjoy today, even in the Old Testament.。
Go to Isaiah 6, it records the prophet Isaiah seeing a vision of the Lord and a vision of。
heaven.。
It was a beautiful and powerful vision.。
And when he saw this vision, Isaiah did not say, "Wow, that's cool."。
Look at Isaiah 6, verse 5.。
I said, "Woe is me, for I am lost.。
For I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips.。
For my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts."。
Isaiah felt completely shattered before God.。
He instantly saw the gap between who he was and who God is.。
Isaiah's response points us to the finished work of Jesus on the cross.。
You can step up to that finished work by the act of repentance.。
When you say the equivalent of Isaiah's words, "Woe is me.。
I've fallen short of God's holy standard.。
I've fallen short of God's best for my life.。
I take responsibility for it.。
I am accountable for my sin.。
Whether or not I admit it or respond emotionally."。
Repentance is not a negative thing.。
Your act of admitting guilt opens a doorway called grace.。
And God comes to you through that doorway.。
It does for you what none of us can do for ourselves.。
Grace was what was extended to Isaiah.。
The great news is that verses six and seven tell of an angel who flew to Isaiah with a。
burning coal in his hand.。
Let's read verse six.。
Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken。
with tongs from the altar.。
Isaiah expected to be exterminated.。
He takes one look at the burning coal and thinks, "That's it, I'm toast."。
Instead, the angel touched Isaiah's mouth and said this.。
And he touched my mouth and said, "Behold, this has touched your lips.。
Your guilt is taken away.。
Your sin is atoned for."。
When we fast forward the story to the New Testament, we see another live burning coal。
has come down from heaven, the Holy One of God, Jesus Christ.。
He gave his innocent life and took our guilt on Calvary's Hill.。
Through his death, his burial, and his resurrection comes our freedom.。
Jesus was pure and innocent.。
And on the cross, a great exchange took place in heaven's courtroom.。
You and I were guilty of our sins and our shortcoming, but God took our guilt and placed。
it instead on his innocent and righteous and willing son.。
But then God took the innocence and the righteousness of his son and made it available to us.。
To everyone who repents, God proclaims forgiveness in the same way that the seraph said to Isaiah,。
your guilt is taken away, your sin is atoned for.。
You are set free by a holy, righteous God.。
All your guilt is taken by Jesus.。
You are made brand new.。
I love 1 John 1.9.。
If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us。
from all unrighteousness.。
Now John was actually addressing the new believers here, helping them understand the power of。
the gospel.。
And he wrote this.。
What it means is your acts of confession is vitally important.。
When you confess, you admit you are responsible for sin in your life.。
You are saying, I did it and it was wrong.。
But here is the biggest news of all.。
If you do sin as a Christian, confess your sin to clear the air in your fellowship with。
God.。
Because of the cross, you are already forgiven.。
Jesus is not coming back to the cross and dying again.。
It is finished, remember?。
So you say, Father, I'm sorry I've sinned.。
Thank you that I am forgiven.。
I want you to give me the grace and power to walk in a different direction.。
So what you do is you confess both your sin and his forgiveness.。
Now that's a reason to celebrate.。
Yet I need to tell you, the enemy will not go quietly on this one.。
He will do all he can to keep you on a guilt trip indefinitely.。
Do you recognize the voice of dread?。
Well, now I see you are a Christian.。
I see you believe you're going to heaven when you die.。
I'm going to make sure your life feels like hell right now by pointing out, pointing out。
to you everything that you've ever done that was wrong and everything that you're going。
to do in the future.。
That's right.。
I'm booking your tickets for a one-way cruise.。
You're going on a guilt trip.。
And I'm the captain of the ship, mister.。
My friends, it's far too easy to jump on that cruise.。
The enemy remembers everything and he'll bring back all the ugly details of your past life。
back to you.。
He works hard to convince you that if you keep your sins hidden, all will be well.。
If you just press those sins down hard enough, if you just party it up hard enough, that's。
what's needed to feel good.。
But my friends, that doesn't work.。
Your guilt is never removed when you hide.。
It is only when you bring your guilt into the spotlight of Christ's grace that your。
sins are atoned for and your guilt is removed.。
In Jesus's holy, loving, and kind presence, you can say, "Lord, I confess I've done some。
things wrong.。
I also want to let you know that I've had some wrong things done to me.。
These things have made me marred, damaged, hurt.。
I've been both a perpetrator of sin and a victim of sin.。
I want your forgiveness and I want your freedom.。
I want your eyes to see all that I have done and all that has been done to me."。
By your work, the effects of sin are canceled.。
By your stripes, I am healed.。
You see, grace not only cancels guilt and shame, but it also redefines you and me.。
The biggest change in definition is from failure to family.。
The author Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote a book in 1850 called The Scarlet Letter.。
You might have heard of it.。
In the story, a young woman called Hester Pryne had a baby through an affair.。
Hester is jailed for adultery.。
When the baby is about three months old, Hester is released from jail, her debt to society。
paid.。
Yet in order to shame her permanently, the townspeople make Hester stand on a scaffold。
in the town square for three hours wearing a red cloth with a letter A stitched on the。
front of the dress.。
You see, I put a picture on the screen.。
The legacy of the public shaming will be the ongoing punishment.。
For years afterwards, Hester is treated as an outcast.。
She is defined by what she has done.。
Now maybe you can identify with that story because I'll be honest with you, many of you。
are walking around with a scarlet letter of your own.。
You're defined by your sin.。
You look at that letter on your chest, you say, "Yeah, that's me."。
Or maybe it was someone else's sin that God exported into your life, an abusive parent。
or spouse perhaps, the friends who rejected you.。
And I'll be honest, as a pastor, I see so many people walking around this city with。
an R on their chest, the R for rejection.。
Even then you look into the mirror and you say, "I'm damaged, I'm ruined."。
You take other people's failure and you wear it as your own.。
But God changes your identity.。
I love this, it's on the screen.。
The enemy wants to define you by your scars.。
Jesus wants to define you by his scars.。
Can I say it again?。
I love it so much.。
The enemy wants to define you by your scars.。
Jesus wants to define you by his scars.。
The grace of Jesus Christ removes your old identity and replaces it with a brand new。
identity.。
1 John 3 says this, "See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should。
be called children of God."。
And so we are.。
The reason why the world does not know us is it did not know him.。
This is your new identity.。
You are a son or a daughter of God, a child of the King.。
Sandra and I were updating our wills this week.。
If you want to find out whether you're in it, just let us know.。
But we've been updating our wills.。
But I need to tell you, you are written into God's will.。
You are an heir of everything that God has.。
Grace has redefined you.。
You are a beloved member of the family of God because you have been given a seat at。
his table.。
Two years ago, you remember traveling?。
We took a team from KFCI to Israel.。
And one of the places we visited was the beach where Jesus had gently restored the apostle。
Peter.。
I've put a picture of it up on the screen.。
This is the actual beach where Jesus restored Peter.。
Now in Peter's original commission, Jesus said, "Follow me and I will make you fishers。
of men."。
Remember that?。
Matthew 4.19.。
In other words, follow me because I have a plan and a purpose for your lives.。
But Peter, of course, betrayed Jesus three times on the night before his death.。
He had messed up.。
He was a failure.。
And so he returned to his old gig.。
He ignored his new commission.。
He'd gone fishing.。
Oh yes, but fishing for fish again.。
I think Peter knew he was wearing the identity of three-time betrayer on his chest.。
He did not believe a three-time betrayer had any place in the plans and purposes of Jesus。
anymore.。
Have you ever been in a similar place?。
You've denied Jesus, so now you feel cloaked in shame.。
Or you've ignored Jesus, forgotten Jesus, and now you're back to your old way of life.。
You've sinned.。
You've given the enemy a seat at your table.。
When that happens, you go to a familiar place.。
Even though that familiar place isn't part of Jesus' call on your life, to a place you。
know and know only too well.。
You go to a place that's easy to go to, but seldom beneficial.。
It may not be a place of debauchery or gross sin, but merely a place where you think you。
can do life without God.。
It is perhaps the grossest sin of all.。
In a place like this, it's hard to believe you can ever be restored.。
But as the day broke, there was some good news.。
Day broke, Jesus stood on the shore.。
He asked the disciples if they'd caught any fish.。
He already knew the answer.。
He asked them to throw their nets on the other side of the boat.。
Man, we tried that already.。
We're experienced fishermen, you know.。
The difference was because Jesus was behind the declaration.。
Fortunately, Peter and the other disciples followed Jesus' voice and their nets became。
instantly full.。
We caught 153 fish.。
Peter got so excited, he jumped into the sea and swam to land to see if it really was Jesus.。
And there's me jumping into the sea.。
Boom.。
There's me jumping into the sea.。
There is me jumping into the sea.。
Can I have the next slide, please?。
I need to tell you why you're looking at this amazing picture.。
That's Kathy, by the way.。
How Jesus restored Peter is how Jesus restores us today.。
I mean, he would have been justified in saying, "Hey, Peter, I heard you denied me three times.。
Are you for real?。
I hate to be a told you so, but I told you so.。
Why did you let me down at the most critical point of my mission?。
Are you even sorry?。
You're worthless.。
You're a hypocrite.。
Get out of here."。
No, Jesus did not say that to Peter.。
And he doesn't say anything like that to you and me.。
He simply said to Peter, "Come and have breakfast.。
Come close to me.。
Get some warm baked bread.。
Here's barbecued fish fresh off the grill.。
I'll bet you're tired and wet.。
Come by this warm fire.。
Sit and rest a while and dry your damp clothes."。
What do you think Jesus will say to you when he takes you for breakfast?。
Do you think it will be words of accusation?。
Certainly the enemy would like to put that into our minds.。
Do you imagine that Jesus would say to you, "You're done for, finished."。
Yet Romans chapter eight says, "Yet there is therefore no condemnation for those who。
are in Christ Jesus."。
No condemnation.。
Jesus gave us such a perfect picture of that verse in his dealings with Peter.。
And Jesus offers us similar kindness.。
After the meal, Jesus had some more kind words for Peter.。
Jesus asked one question in three different ways.。
Essentially, he said to Peter, "Do you love me?。
Do you love me more than these boats and nets and fish and these things you've given your。
life to but I called you away from?"。
When Peter affirmed his love for the Lord Jesus, Jesus replied, "Feed my sheep."。
Jesus did more for Peter and more for us than we can imagine.。
Jesus was telling Peter he wasn't finished.。
Peter was gonna be the rock on which the mission of God will be established and carried forward.。
It said that his identity was not gonna be a denier of Jesus.。
He would not have D sketched on his shirt.。
He would be the hero of faith and a legend in the church.。
Peter will one day very soon preach the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit and 3000。
people will be saved that day.。
Jesus never focused on Peter's failure.。
He focused on the restoration.。
Grace removed Peter's guilt.。
Grace removed Peter's shame.。
Peter's identity was no longer wrapped up in the denial.。
Yes, he'd failed.。
He failed big time but his life wasn't a failure.。
His life was no longer marked by shame.。
Grace redefined Peter as a friend and a family member of the God Almighty.。
And that's what the grace of God does for you and me too.。
As I draw this to a close, one of my favorite verses in the whole Bible, Psalm 34, 5 says,。
"Those who look to him are radiant and their faces shall never be ashamed."。
Jesus says, "You are not damaged goods.。
You are a child of the Almighty God, an heir to the King of the universe."。
When Jesus invites you to breakfast on the beach, He simply asks if you love Him.。
If the answer is yes, Jesus proceeds with the restoration.。
Now the enemy might wanna twist it.。
He might wanna keep sitting at your table.。
He wants you to listen to his voice looking away.。
But the first in Psalms encourages us to look to the Lord and promises us, you will be radiant.。
This is a powerful image and the opposite of shame.。
If you are looking to the Lord, you are radiant.。
Your face is reflecting the light and love of Christ.。
Look, I know, I know it can be hard to forgive yourself.。
I get it.。
Your new identity comes from realizing that Jesus forgives you.。
He says, "Those who look to him are radiant, their faces shall never be ashamed."。
He calls you son.。
He calls you daughter.。
Jesus says, "You are forgiven."。
Do you agree with Him?。
As the band comes back, could we all stand?。
I believe we've got some business to do tonight.。
Don't worry about what you're gonna have for dinner.。
You can worry about the 15 minutes.。
We're gonna pray, we're gonna pray for restoration.。
We're gonna receive the freedom that he has for us.。
If you're in the overflow room or even if you're watching at home, you might want to。
stand with us as well.。
Because I'm gonna ask you to repeat a prayer after me.。
Why I'm gonna ask you to do this is actually a confession of your lips.。
It's the first thing there.。
The first thing we're gonna do is repent.。
Then we're gonna renounce.。
And thirdly, we're gonna break.。
So repeat after me, "Father God, I repent of doubting your love for me.。
I also repent of believing that you have really forgiven me and that the blood of Jesus has。
cleansed me from all of the sin, all of the guilt, and all of the shame of my past.。
Heavenly God, I repent and listening and agreeing with the voice of the accuser, telling me。
that I'm an evil person, that I'm dirty, and that I'm unworthy to come and receive your。
love.。
Here today, I renounce guilt, false guilt, and shame.。
I renounce condemnation, self-condemnation, and all sense of unworthiness.。
I renounce every spirit assigned to work against me with guilt, shame, and condemnation.。
I renounce what they have done to keep me from becoming the person God created me to。
be."。
We're gonna break these now.。
I break all agreements I have made with the lying voices of guilt, shame, and condemnation.。
I break all word curses I have spoken about myself.。
I break all soul ties and all generational ties that would bind me in any way to past。
guilt, shame, or condemnation.。
I break every vow, covenant, or agreement, and all word curses that would give these。
spirits any power or influence in my life.。
All spirits of guilt, shame, and condemnation, I break your power over me in the mighty name。
of Jesus.。
Father God, I choose to open my heart to receive your unconditional love, your grace and forgiveness,。
and a full release from all guilt and shame in my life.。
And by your grace, I also choose to forgive myself in Jesus' name.。
I believe that God has done something in us tonight.。
We've identified these major tools of the enemy in guilt, shame, and condemnation.。
And we've broken their power in the name of Jesus.。
I'm going to ask you to do one thing now.。
I'm going to ask you to lift your head.。
You don't need to stoop anymore.。
Lift your head.。
Lift your head.。
And I'm going to read these words again over you.。
Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed.。
Let's declare this as we sing this song, "My Chains Are Gone."。
The price is paid.。
Amazing grace.。
Let's sing this together as a church.。
Amen.。
[Music]。
