We're continuing our parables, and Paul did a wonderful job last time on the shrewd manager,。
Gabe the week--I mean, Pastor John the week before on prodigal son, and Gabe before on。
the rich fool.。
And so we're sort of on a trend here--lost son.。
And before then, it was the lost sheep and the lost coin.。
There was something that was lost.。
And also, the shrewd manager, he also possibly lost something, right?。
He lost his job.。
But he used it to prepare for the afterlife.。
Prepare for the afterlife.。
Now human civilization has always been obsessed with afterlife, right?。
We go back to the Greeks.。
They thought Mount Olympus was the place for the afterlife, and the gods, Zeus and Poseidon,。
and they all determined whether you would go to the afterlife, right?。
It determined by your works and your sacrifices.。
The Egyptians, they had the process called mummification.。
It was to preserve your body, right?。
They took out your heart and your organs to preserve it and you preserve your body so。
that it would be there for the afterlife.。
Now, the Chinese emperor, right, he also tried to prepare and conquer the afterlife, right?。
He had--anybody been here?。
Anybody seen these?。
Yeah?。
It was beautiful, right?。
He prepared thousands of these things so that he could try and go and conquer the afterlife,。
conquer death, and conquer the afterlife.。
And so today, we're going to learn about a story that Jesus told.。
And firstly, we're going to read about the life, the life of two people.。
Let's read together the life of these two people.。
Let's read together.。
One, two, three.。
"There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen, feasted strumptiously every。
day.。
And at his gate laid a poor man named Lazarus covered with sores who desired to be fed of。
the rich man.。
Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores."。
All right.。
So here we have a story of a rich man.。
And this really poor person at his door.。
Anybody been to Mumbai before?。
Anybody been to Mumbai?。
And we're--in Mumbai, there are slums, right?。
And it's amazing, you know, Shahrukh Khan, you know, million, billion-dollar house right。
beside possibly the slums, right?。
These really poor people.。
And I've been into the slums.。
There's hardly any--there's no fresh water.。
There's barely any electricity.。
And it's the rich beside the poor.。
And in the same way, we have the super rich person here, right?。
Super rich person.。
And Lazarus is right at his door.。
Now, we see a couple of comparisons between the rich and the Lazarus man.。
The rich man and the Lazarus.。
So firstly, the rich man, he was clothed in purple.。
Do you know how they got purple dye back then?。
Do you know how they got it back then?。
It was from snails.。
It was a very expensive process.。
And only the richest of the rich people got to wear purple.。
That's why the kings and the rich people were clothed in purple.。
The Bible says he was a rich and luxurious man.。
And Lazarus was poor.。
And he was a beggar.。
This rich man was healthy and well-dressed.。
And Lazarus was clothed with sores.。
This rich man was possibly very clean, washed several times.。
And the Lazarus man was unclean.。
Now, this rich man, he was feasting.。
You know, here at KFC, we like to feast as well, right?。
He was feasting.。
And Lazarus, what was he looking for?。
He was looking for the crumbs off the table.。
As we see in the next slide, there's a quote。
by one of the commentators.。
And it says that food was eaten with hands.。
And in very wealthy houses, the hands。
were cleaned by wiping them with hunks of bread, which。
were then thrown away.。
This was what Lazarus was waiting for.。
Imagine you are in a luxurious house, right?。
And instead of napkins, you're using slices of white bread。
to wipe your hands.。
And then what do you do after?。
You throw the bread away.。
You've wiped your hands.。
This was what Lazarus was waiting for,。
the crumbs on the bottom of the table,。
in which the rich people wiped their hands after cleaning.。
The rich and the poor.。
This rich man was independent, right?。
He was rich.。
He was self-sufficient.。
Lazarus was hoping to survive off the crumbs。
off the floor of this rich man.。
Now, this rich man possibly had lots of servants,。
people coming to his aid.。
What did this poor man have?。
Only dogs to lick the sores off--。
the dogs to lick the sores on his skin.。
Now, I've been licked various times by Uncle Vincent's dogs.。
I did not have any sores.。
I think it was because they liked me.。
What's interesting is that this rich man is unnamed.。
It's unnamed.。
But this poor man, his name was Lazarus.。
Do you know what Lazarus, the core of this name,。
the Hebrew core of this name, comes from?。
It comes from-- it comes from Ili--。
sorry.。
I forgot.。
Let me look at my notes.。
I-L-- how do you say it?。
OK, this rich man's name, Eleazar.。
Eleazar.。
I was tricking you.。
I didn't know it.。
Eleazar.。
Do you know what it means?。
L means-- what do you guys know?。
Teaching you Hebrew now.。
Kids on the phone, I'm teaching you Hebrew.。
Yeah.。
L means-- do you guys know what--。
do you know Superman?。
Supernan?。
His name was L what?。
He had a Kryptonian name.。
L, it means-- take a guess.。
OK, I'll give you three choices.。
It means man, first choice.。
Number two, it means good.。
And number three, it means God.。
OK, three choices.。
What do you think L means?。
I'm teaching you Hebrew here.。
OK, everybody wave what finger they think it is.。
One is man.。
Number two is good.。
Number three is God.。
OK, ready?。
One, two, three.。
OK, if you chose number three--。
Harper, what did you choose?。
Number three, very good.。
L means God, OK?。
So what from God?。
Help from God.。
Eleazar, it means God's help.。
And so interestingly, this rich man was not named.。
But this poor beggar, who was possibly crippled as well,。
was named.。
It was personal.。
God knew him.。
God helped him.。
Possibly he had faith.。
That's why Jesus named him in this parable.。
This rich man, what we can see is the opposite.。
His life and his identity was found in riches.。
It shaped, it defined him.。
And we also saw here that he was sort of unwilling to help Lazarus.。
Unwilling to help Lazarus.。
So this was the life.。
Two men, opposites.。
One rich, one poor, one healthy, one sick, with sores.。
And now we see the death.。
Let's read together the death.。
One, two, three.。
The poor man died and was carried to the angels to Abraham's side.。
The rich man also died and was buried.。
And in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes。
and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side.。
OK, first of all, we see that the poor man died.。
OK?。
The poor man died.。
What about the rich man?。
He also died.。
Now there is a difference.。
What is the difference here?。
The poor man, there was no mention of a burial.。
Did poor people get buried back then?。
Not likely.。
Not likely.。
Actually, many of them--。
click the next two slides--。
a lot of them were thought to have been thrown out of the city。
to a place where garbage was burned.。
OK, anybody been to a third world country and you smell burning garbage?。
That's one of the most hated smells.。
I hate that smell.。
It's like burning plastic or something.。
Right?。
In third world countries, they do that.。
They don't have a garbage disposal system, so they burn.。
And possibly what happened was this poor man was not buried either.。
OK, it showed that nobody really cared about him,。
that he didn't have any money, that he was just thrown out like garbage。
into this pit of burning garbage.。
Lazarus, on the other hand, there was a mention of burial.。
Now, I was just helping in a funeral several weeks ago,。
as you see in the previous slide of this one.。
Now, this burial was beautiful.。
It had a beautiful ceremony.。
His life was celebrated.。
People came.。
Hundreds of people came.。
Back in the olden days, in Jewish times, they would hire mourners.。
People would cry.。
They thought, oh, the more people that cried,。
it meant that you were more important.。
Right?。
How many people do you want to cry at your funeral?。
A lot.。
Wailers.。
They would hire wailers.。
Do you want to hire wailers?。
Oh, this person's so important.。
I'm going to cry.。
Right?。
So there was a burial for the rich man.。
And he was possibly very rich.。
And so he had a nice coffin.。
Right?。
Back then, they didn't have coffins.。
They had-- what did they dig out of the stone?。
They had a tomb.。
That's right.。
They had a tomb.。
And those were very expensive as well.。
All right, so that was the death.。
Both died.。
One had a proper burial.。
One might have just been thrown into a garbage pit of fire。
outside of the city.。
Now, so we have life.。
We have death.。
What do we have next?。
We have the--。
the afterlife.。
Let's read together.。
Actually, we've read this.。
So let's just read--。
I'll just read the verse 23.。
"And in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes.。
And he saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side."。
What is interesting here is that the dead rich man。
was not met with anybody after he died.。
But the rich man was met with--。
was the rich man--。
Lazarus-- what was Lazarus met with?。
The angels.。
And the angels carried him to Abraham's side.。
And what does it mean, Abraham's side?。
To be-- who is Abraham?。
The father of the patriarchs, right?。
So it must be a good thing.。
Abraham was known to be a righteous man.。
So to be at his side, it must have been good.。
You're beside Abraham, one of the most important people。
in Israel.。
Father Abraham.。
Father Abraham, right?。
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, right?。
These were the important people, most important people.。
So we see that the rich man was in Hades, all right?。
Why was the rich man in Hades?。
Was it because he was rich?。
Is that why he was brought to Hades?。
And was Lazarus saved because he was poor?。
No.。
Because Abraham-- was he rich or poor?。
Was Abraham rich or poor?。
OK.。
Rich?。
Yes, rich.。
I was going to make you guess again, like my kids,。
my youth kids, get them involved.。
OK.。
Abraham was one of the richest people in the Old Testament.。
He had so much livestock, so many servants,。
that what happened?。
He had a fight with his nephew.。
What's his nephew's name?。
Lot, right?。
They were like, oh, we need to separate.。
You go left or right, you know?。
Because you go left and I'll go right, you know?。
Because we have so much stuff that we're just fighting.。
Our servants are fighting, our livestock are fighting.。
There's not enough grass to eat, right?。
And so they were fighting.。
So Lazarus was rich, and he wasn't in Hades, OK?。
And Lazarus was by his side.。
So what is Hades?。
Do you guys know what Hades is?。
Let's look at Hades.。
Actually, in the Old Testament, our equivalent of Hades。
was Shiloh.。
And Shiloh, or Shiloh, was a place of the dead or grave, OK?。
It says, because you will not abandon me。
in the realm of Shiloh, the dead.。
Now, the Greek word is Hades, OK?。
It's also the same, equivalent, the place of the dead.。
It's a place where the dead were punished.。
So in Judaism, that's what they thought.。
When you died, you went to a place called Hades, OK?。
And seemingly, as we see in this story, the rich--。
or not, the righteous were separated from the unrighteous.。
Let's continue to read how death is distinguished from Hades.。
Also, we see that in Revelations.。
Its writer's name was Death, and Hades followed him.。
So we see that Death and Hades are two different things.。
And we also see in the Book of Revelations,。
Hades will one day be destroyed.。
Let's read this in Revelations together.。
The sea gave up.。
Ready?。
Next slide.。
The sea gave up.。
OK, ready?。
One, two, three.。
The sea gave up the dead who were in it.。
And Death and Hades delivered of dead who were in them.。
And Death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire.。
So Hades is sort of a temporary place for the dead.。
The ultimate final judgment is the lake of fire.。
It's called hell, OK?。
And Jesus says this word hell in Mark chapter 9.。
Let's read that together.。
If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off.。
It is better for you to enter a life maimed with two hands。
than to go to hell, where the fire never goes out.。
The lake of fire, hell, is the final judgment.。
Hades is the place for the dead, a temporary place for the dead.。
And it is a place where the unrighteous receive punishment.。
However, because Christ has died and rose again,。
he conquered victory.。
He conquered death in victory, OK?。
Jesus has the keys to death and Hades.。
He says this in Revelations 1.。
I am he who lives and was dead.。
And behold, I am alive forevermore.。
I have the keys of Hades and death.。
And next, next, the righteous go with the Lord when they die.。
Let's read this together, the words of Paul.。
One, two, three.。
So we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home。
in the body, we are absent from the Lord.。
For we will walk by faith, not by sight.。
We are confident, yes, we pleased rather to be absent。
from the body and to be present with the Lord.。
What is Paul saying here?。
Paul is saying here, because of Christ's death on the cross。
and his victory over death,。
we now go to the Lord directly after.。
We are present with the Lord.。
When we are absent from the body,。
we are present with the Lord.。
And so when Jesus died on the cross,。
there were two people beside him.。
Yeah, were they good guys or bad guys?。
They were bad guys, good.。
And one of them, what was he saying?。
He said, "I know you are the Christ."。
Right?。
And he believed in Christ.。
And what did Jesus say to him?。
"Today you will be with me in?"。
"In paradise."。
Paradise.。
So could it be that when Jesus died,。
the righteous now go with him,。
present with the Lord in paradise?。
So could it be that this person who died with Jesus,。
maybe he was one of the first people with Jesus in paradise?。
So Hades, where the righteous man is,。
where the rich man is, sorry,。
where the rich man is,。
is a place of temporary suffering and punishment。
until the ultimate final judgment,。
which is the lake of fire, the final judgment.。
Does that make sense?。
Yes?。
Good.。
You can talk to me after if it doesn't make sense.。
All right, let's continue to read Luke chapter 16.。
Let's read together.。
One, two, three.。
"And he called out, 'Father Abraham, have mercy on me.'。
"And sat Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water。
"and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish and in this flame.。
"But Abraham said, 'Child, remember that you in your lifetime。
"received your good things,。
"and Lazarus in like manner bad things.。
"But now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish.。
"And besides all this, between us and you,。
"a great chasm has been fixed,。
"in order that those who would pass from here to you。
"may not be able, and none may cross to us.'"。
So here we see the rich man in Hades,。
and somehow he's able to look up。
and he sees Abraham.。
And not only does he see Abraham, he sees Lazarus.。
What's interesting here is that this person,。
this rich man is begging to Abraham.。
So possibly in this Hades place, he has memory.。
It's interesting.。
He has memory of what happened in his life,。
and he sees Lazarus, and yet he still sees Lazarus。
as his servant.。
Okay, he wants Lazarus to come and help him.。
He still sees himself as superior.。
And he begs Abraham, "Send Lazarus to come。
"and dip the end of his finger。
"and cool my tongue with water."。
Okay, so once again, there is a contrast.。
But however, the roles have now been reversed.。
The rich man is now begging,。
and now Lazarus is in a position of comfort.。
The rich man is in torment and in anguish,。
and Lazarus is in comfort.。
It's interesting to see that this rich man。
still sees himself as superior,。
and Lazarus as the servant.。
And it's also interesting to see that this rich man。
is also different from last week's rich man.。
Last week's rich man, or shrewd manager,。
used his position and his power or riches。
to prepare him for what comes next.。
But this rich man did not use his power。
and position and possessions to prepare himself。
for the afterlife.。
This word, in agony, this rich man was in agony,。
and it's translated as grief or anguish.。
And it's only used several times in the New Testament.。
The one time, there's one time,。
is when Jesus was lost by his parents,。
Mary and Joseph, and they were in agony.。
They lost their son.。
Have you lost your son in the mall or something?。
You're like, "Where's my son? Where did he go?"。
He was, you know, Joseph and Mary were in agony.。
And another time it was used in the New Testament。
was when Paul knew that he was going to go to Rome,。
and he could no longer, this was the last time。
he would see his friends in the church.。
He was in agony. He was in anguish.。
He had lost, they're losing something.。
They lost something.。
What did this rich man lose?。
He lost his, what did he have that he no longer had now。
in Hades, his riches.。
He was possibly in anguish because he had lost his riches.。
Let's continue in chapter 16, verse 26.。
One, two, three.。
"And besides all this, between us and you,。
"a great chasm has been fixed。
"in order that those who would pass from here to you。
"may not be able, and none may cross from there to us."。
What is this chasm? What is this chasm?。
Some commentators say that it is。
between the belief of the law and the belief of grace.。
Some people believe this chasm, what separates the two people。
is those who know God personally。
and those who only know about him.。
Those are separated because of self-centered living。
and those Christ-centered living.。
Those who live upon the flesh。
and those who depend on the spirit.。
This is the chasm that separates the rich man and Lazarus,。
the rich man and Lazarus.。
And now, the story takes an interesting turn.。
This rich man starts to care about his family.。
He sort of has a missional purpose.。
He's like, "You know what? Why don't you send Lazarus?"。
Once again, he thinks Lazarus is his amazing servant。
that cares truly deeply about him.。
And he wants to send Lazarus back to his brothers。
so that they would not end up in the same place that he is in,。
in anguish, in Hades, in suffering, in torment.。
And he says, let's read together, 1, 2, 3.。
And he said, "Then I beg you, Father, to send him to my father's house,。
for I have five brothers so that he may warn them,。
lest they also come into the place of torment.。
But Abraham said, 'They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear.'。
And he said to them, 'No, Father Abraham,。
but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.'。
He said to him, 'If they do not hear Moses and the prophets,。
neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead.'"。
He's like, "Send Lazarus. If only they see somebody rise from the dead,。
my five brothers will come to know salvation."。
Some commentators say that the five brothers represent Israel.。
Judah, or yeah, Judah had five brothers。
in the family of Joseph and Benjamin.。
Joseph, Benjamin, there was Judah, and Judah himself had five brothers.。
And so that's what some commentators think.。
Save Israel. Save Jerusalem.。
Save my family so that they would come to salvation.。
And Abraham says this, "They have Moses and the prophets.。
They have no excuse."。
They have no excuse to know about salvation.。
They have no excuse.。
So we went through the life of these two very different people.。
We went through their death.。
We went through their afterlife.。
And this is the aftermath.。
I call it the aftermath.。
Aftermath is what is the consequence?。
What is the result for us?。
What is the aftermath?。
What can we learn?。
The first thing that I wrote here is duty. Duty.。
This rich man was given riches.。
And what did he do with it?。
It seems like he didn't do very much or nothing at all。
because the consequence was he resulted in being in Hades, in torment.。
What has God given us?。
What has God given us?。
Even the students here, what has God given you?。
What has God given you?。
God has given these things to us not just so that we could be blessed。
and enjoy all these things.。
God has called us to be good stewards of the things that he's given us.。
Whether it be our position, whether we're bosses or we're--。
whether it be our riches financially,。
whether it be our opportunities, God wants us to be good stewards.。
This rich man was not a good steward of the things that God had given him.。
He didn't do anything. He didn't help Lazarus.。
He still, in Hades, still looks down on Lazarus.。
"Go, dip your hand in water and cool my tongue.。
Go and help my brothers, save them."。
We've all been given a duty to be good stewards of what God has given us.。
What has God given you?。
Are you being a good steward of what he has given you?。
That's the first question we need to ask ourselves, duty, stewardship.。
What has God entrusted to you?。
And what are you doing with it?。
What are you doing with it? Are you wasting it?。
Are you wasting it?。
The second thing is decision.。
The decisions that this rich man made in his life,。
it had eternal consequences.。
Eternal consequences.。
Lazarus, coming from the Hebrew, Eleazar, our God helps.。
Possibly he had a relationship with God,。
and that was why he was with Abraham at his side.。
The decisions we make here on earth have eternal consequences.。
Eternal consequences.。
In the parable of the tenants,。
five was given, three was given, two was given,。
and then the manager left, and when he returned, he said,。
"What have you done with the five?"。
"I've gained five more."。
"What have you done with the three that I've given you?"。
"I've gained three more."。
"What have you done with the one I've given you?"。
"I dug a hole, and I hid it. I was afraid."。
"Oh, gang, I was very afraid."。
"I'm a gang, gang. Gang, gang."。
"Harper, gang."。
"He was afraid, and he hid it."。
And the manager, or is it the manager? Sorry.。
It was the, what was it, John?。
The tenant.。
>> Talents. >> Talents. Sorry.。
>> It's the master. >> Master, sorry.。
Master, the master of the talents.。
Did I say tenants? My bad. It's okay.。
I was tricking you.。
Thank you, thank you.。
He said, "Wicked servant, throw him out."。
Right? Where there will be gnashing of teeth.。
Gnashing of teeth.。
I'm so scared of gnashing of teeth.。
All right?。
Our decisions on earth,。
what God has given us, and what we do with the things that God has given us,。
has eternal consequences.。
One day, the master will come back.。
The ultimate master, Jesus Christ, will come back,。
and we will stand before him in the throne,。
and he will judge what we have done,。
whether good or bad.。
We have a duty.。
We have a decision.。
And we have been given opportunity to discover God.。
Each one of us in this room has been given an opportunity to discover God.。
Okay? This rich man was possibly also a righteous man,。
because in the previous verses,。
Jesus was talking specifically to the Pharisees and the rich people。
who had riches physically,。
but not eternal riches in their heart.。
It also says in Romans, let's read in Romans together,。
verse 18, chapter 1, verse 18.。
Let's read together. One, two, three.。
The wrath of the God is being revealed from heaven against all godlessness。
and wickedness of people who suppress the truth by their wickedness.。
Since what may be known about God is plain to them,。
because God has made it plain to them.。
For since the creation of the world,。
God's invisible qualities, his eternal power, and divine nature。
has been clearly seen, being understood from what has been made,。
so that people are without excuses.。
There is no excuse, it says here.。
God has made it plain, plainly known, his invisible qualities, his power.。
He has shown it.。
If you don't know the word of God, he's shown it in creation.。
There's no excuse.。
There is no excuse.。
This rich man had no excuse.。
He had Moses and the prophets as well.。
Some people don't have the law and the prophets,。
but what do they have? They have God's creation.。
It says it right here.。
His power, his invisible qualities, it's shown in what he has made.。
We have the opportunity to discover God, all of us.。
We all have the opportunity to discover God.。
Next, dependent, dependent.。
What was the rich man dependent on in his life?。
His wealth. His wealth defined him.。
Jesus says, "The rich man." He doesn't even give him a name,。
because he was shaped by his riches.。
He's so dependent on his riches that it defined who he is.。
KFC, what are we dependent on in our life today?。
Are we dependent on the number of zeros in our bank account?。
Are we dependent on our physical strong bodies?。
Are we dependent on love relationships?。
That will carry us through.。
What are we dependent on? Are we dependent on the stock market?。
Are we dependent on the banks this week?。
Are we dependent on the banks this week?。
Choose your bank wisely.。
What are we dependent on?。
This rich man was so dependent on his riches that it cost him eternity.。
Jesus says, "What good is it for a man to gain the world, but forfeit his soul?"。
You can gain the world, but lose your soul.。
Paul had a great example. This life is just monopoly money.。
It's just monopoly money.。
The last thing, the last D is this.。
Do you recognize that there is a Deliverer?。
And this Deliverer is Jesus Christ.。
He is the only person that we should be fully dependent on。
to be our Lord, our Savior, the bread of life, living water.。
He is that. He is that.。
Let's take some time to reflect on our life as the band comes up.。
Which one of these D words is the Holy Spirit and God speaking to you personally?。
Is it duty? Has God given you something?。
Money, power, position?。
And what are you using it for?。
Are you being a good steward of what God has given you?。
Are you being a good steward?。
Decision.。
Your decision on this earth has eternal consequences.。
What decisions are you making in this life?。
Are they impacting your life in the eternity?。
Discover.。
Have you discovered God?。
It says that there is no excuse.。
In this story, the rich man had no excuse.。
In the passage in Romans, it says there is no excuse.。
God has revealed himself.。
Have you chosen to know him?。
Or have you chosen to go against him?。
And what is your life dependent on?。
Are you dependent on riches?。
Are you dependent on your social status?。
How many likes you have?。
Are you dependent on your house, investments, stocks?。
Or are you dependent on the deliverer?。
The deliverer.。
The deliverer of our souls, of salvation.。
What is God convicting of you today?。
Which D word is he speaking to you personally today?。
Let's take a moment just to reflect, talk to the Lord.。
Ask him to speak to you personally.。
Let's do that for a moment.。
[music]。
Heavenly Father, we come before you.。
We thank you for the reminders in this parable.。
That this life is not just the end.。
There is eternity.。
The things that we decide on earth have eternal weight.。
Help us to make wise decisions.。
To follow your spirit.。
Help us, Lord, to be good stewards of the things you have given us on this earth.。
In Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
Let us respond with this song.。
