This weekend in the Christian calendar is Pentecost.。
And tomorrow churches all around the world will be celebrating Pentecost.。
I've got a little admission to make for you.。
I don't know how you felt about last Sunday's sermon with Joyce.。
It really impacted me.。
And I'm sitting at home on Sunday and I tore up my sermon for today.。
I wrote it again.。
Sandra will tell you.。
And I wanted to change that sermon in the light of firstly her message and secondly。
in the light of Pentecost.。
So my sermon title is "Serving Makes a Difference" to which I've added, and I've put it on the。
screen, "Serving in the Light of Pentecost."。
Now let me tell you what I'm talking about.。
Most Christians could not imagine having a year go by without celebrating the holidays。
of Christmas and Easter.。
The church Christian calendar is not complete without the observance of these two events.。
Christmas is the event that celebrates the birth of Jesus Christ and the beginning of。
his ministry.。
Easter celebrates the resurrection of Jesus and God's ultimate victory over sin and death.。
Imagine a year with no Christmas turkey and no Easter eggs.。
Imagine a year with no songs like "O Holy Night" or "Christ the Lord is risen today"。
or the 2023 version "Friday's good but Sunday's coming."。
However, there is a third holiday, a third observance, a third sacred event central to。
our understanding of what it means to be a Christian and what it means to belong to the。
church.。
Though many Christians do not celebrate this event, and some may never have heard of it。
or know little about it, that third event is called Pentecost Sunday.。
The third great day in the Christian calendar is rooted in the story of Acts chapter 2 and。
celebrates the day when the Holy Spirit descended on the apostles who were gathered in a room。
in Jerusalem.。
Some people mistakenly believe the observance of Pentecost has meaning only for those Christians。
who call themselves Pentecostals.。
The truth is the history of the Christian church stretches back more than 2,000 years,。
while the Pentecostal movement did not emerge in its fullness until the turn of the 20th。
century.。
Pentecost Sunday is 1,900 years older than Christians who call themselves Pentecostals.。
In other words, observing the day of Pentecost is no more a possession of Pentecostals than。
observing baptism is the possession only of those who call themselves Baptists.。
However, Pentecost and baptism are gifts that God gave to the whole church, to the whole。
body of Christ.。
Pentecost began as and remains one of the major holidays in the Jewish calendar that。
occurs 50 days after Passover.。
The word Pentecost literally means 50th or 50th day.。
The Jews, Pentecost was the time when they celebrated the first harvest of the agricultural。
year.。
I guess Americans have Thanksgiving, we Brits have harvest festival.。
It was a time when they gave thanks to God for what the land had produced and for what。
their labor had yielded.。
For Christians, Pentecost marks the birth of the Christian church.。
The day when Peter preached and in response to that sermon, there was a harvest of 3,000。
souls converted.。
Before Pentecost, the disciples were hiding from the public for fear that what had happened。
to Jesus might also happen to them.。
But look what happened to the apostles after the Pentecost.。
Those frightened men had become suddenly and miraculously equipped and empowered to carry。
on the ministry that Jesus had begun in the very city of Jerusalem where Jesus had recently。
been put to death.。
Peter, he's one of my favorites, 53 days earlier, 53 days, right?。
Had said about Jesus, I never knew him.。
Was the same Peter who preached the very first sermon in Acts 2.。
Peter on the day of Pentecost stood before a crowd of the same people he once feared.。
Yet he boldly declared the gospel of Christ.。
Peter stood before many of the same people who had shouted, "Crucify him!"。
On the day Jesus stood before Pontius Pilate in the city of Jerusalem.。
Now Peter declared that the man they ordered to be crucified was in fact the Son of God.。
How did Peter go from being frightened to being fearless?。
How did Peter go from being cowardly to being courageous?。
How did Peter go from denying Jesus to defending Jesus before the very same people in the very。
same place?。
Peter did not simply change his mind.。
Peter himself was changed.。
Something happened to Peter and the other apostles.。
Pentecost marks the outpouring of the Holy Spirit by which human beings are equipped。
to do the work of God.。
I've put this on the screen.。
We've sung this already tonight.。
The church of Christ was born and the Spirit lit the flame.。
Let's read the account, Acts chapter 2.。
When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place.。
Suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind and it filled the entire。
house where they were sitting and divided tongues of fire appeared to them and they。
rested on each one of them.。
And they all were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the。
Spirit gave them utterance.。
Now they were dwelling in Jerusalem, Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven.。
And at this sound, the multitude came together and they were bewildered because each one。
was hearing them speak in his own language.。
And they were amazed and astonished saying, "Aren't these all Galileans?"。
How is it that they hear?。
We hear each of us in his own native language.。
Consider these three events this way.。
If Christmas marks the birth of Jesus, Pentecost marks the birth of the church.。
If Easter marks the day when Jesus was raised from the dead, Pentecost marks the day when。
that message about Jesus began to make its way to people and places all over the world,。
even to the Far East Finance Center in Aberdeen.。
When Peter told the gospel message of Jesus Christ for the very first time, people became。
ready, became ready to respond to the call.。
Let's read it.。
Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of。
the apostles, "Brothers, what should we do?"。
And Peter said to them, "Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ。
for the forgiveness of your sin, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.。
For this promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom。
the Lord our God calls to himself."。
And with many other words, he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, "Save。
yourself from this crooked generation."。
So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about 3,000。
souls.。
Church, that we have failed to understand or observe this day on the calendar does not。
change the basic truth this day holds for every believer.。
Remember that in Acts chapter 1, verses 6 to 8, Jesus tells the apostles to remain in。
the city of Jerusalem until the power of the Holy Spirit came on them.。
He was not sending them out to evangelize on the basis of their life experience or their。
understanding of religious laws and teaching.。
He was not suggesting that spending three years in his presence had resulted in them。
being equipped for the work that lay ahead.。
Instead, he told them to wait, wait for the power, wait for the anointing, wait for the。
Holy Spirit to come upon them.。
And once they had that power, they would be ready to go.。
But until that happened, wait.。
Pentecost Sunday is the day we remember when and how that anointing took place.。
The work of the church in the world as an agent of reconciliation and evangelism had。
begun.。
I've thought about this.。
What do you and I do on Christmas that is central to the story?。
Nothing.。
There is nothing for us to do at Easter except celebrate and give thanks for the work that。
Christ has done on our behalf.。
On Pentecost, however, all of that changes.。
You and I are called away from our roles as spectators into the role of central characters。
in God's work of redemption and salvation.。
As a result of Pentecost, we do not watch what somebody else is doing for God, but are。
being equipped by the power of the Holy Spirit so that we can become actively involved in。
the work of Christ.。
That's what Pentecost is about.。
It's the day that Jesus officially transfers to his disciples the responsibility of continuing。
his work.。
The disciples were no longer spectators.。
The time had come for them to do the work themselves.。
It's one thing to watch while somebody else does all the work.。
There's a few churches like that.。
It's another matter to do the job yourself.。
However, that is what God called those disciples to do on the day of Pentecost.。
Now I expect the question you're asking, "What has all this got to do with our focus on serving?"。
It hit me.。
It hit me last week as Joyce was speaking.。
Remember, Joyce had admitted preferring her comfortable life, air conditioning.。
I think she mentioned sashimi on a few occasions, right?。
Sashimi.。
She preferred that to serving as a missionary in Africa.。
What made the difference?。
I believe it is the spirit of Pentecost.。
We saw this week, I've put a picture on the screen.。
Let's have a picture.。
Bless her.。
I was really taken by this lady, I tell you.。
This was a Hong Kong lady by her own admission, a spoiled Hong Kong child, right?。
Standing before us, speaking so powerfully by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
We saw this with Susanna five weeks ago.。
We saw this with Mr. Green three weeks ago.。
And we look forward to welcoming Alia from Mother's Choice next week.。
I sincerely believe that we as a church are being called to serve the community.。
I've said this so many times that I want to see every one of us involved, not just the。
same usual volunteers.。
The truth is, rather like Joyce, we cannot do this in our own strength.。
If we try, we will fail.。
But the good news is that God's Spirit, the same Spirit that was poured out on the disciples。
at Pentecost, will equip us to serve.。
Let's just take a closer look at what the Holy Spirit does in us.。
Firstly, the Holy Spirit does an inward work in us.。
He is the one who administers justification, regeneration, and gives us new birth in our。
lives.。
He is the one who cleanses us within, who comforts us, who bears witness with our spirit。
that we are children of God.。
Secondly, the Holy Spirit does an upward work in us.。
Jesus says of the Holy Spirit, "He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare。
it to you."。
The Holy Spirit is forever pointing us heavenward to glorify Jesus and the Father.。
And thirdly, the Holy Spirit does an outward work in us.。
The empowerment that took place on the day of Pentecost resulted in a powerful gospel。
witness and 3,000 people from a variety of backgrounds were radically saved.。
The gospel went out to Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.。
These times in which we live, these are exciting times.。
We're another embodiment of the spirit of Pentecost as God is once again pouring out。
his Spirit upon our sons and daughters.。
We need to embrace this aspect of the power and purpose of Pentecost.。
And it is that outward work I want to concentrate on just for a few moments.。
Many people have their own versions of what Pentecost is all about, and I'm not going。
into them now, and I'm going to say there's nothing wrong with any of this.。
But can I give you my own definition?。
And it's this.。
The power and purpose of Pentecost is demonstrated in a life of serving.。
It may surprise you I've come up with that.。
The power and purpose of Pentecost is demonstrated in a life of serving.。
I picked a couple of verses from the series that we've been looking at just to repeat。
them to you.。
The first one from Ephesians, "For we are God's masterpiece."。
I picked the New Living Translation because I love that word "masterpiece."。
We are God's masterpiece.。
Other versions say workmanship.。
He has created us anew in Christ Jesus so that we can do the good things he planned。
for us long ago.。
And from 1 Peter 4, each of you should use whatever gift you have to serve others as。
faithful stewards of God's grace in its various form.。
Peter and Paul combine here to remind us that saved people serve people.。
Saved people serve people.。
You were saved at great cost.。
You were saved by the sacrificial blood of Jesus Christ.。
You were saved at a great cost for a great purpose.。
But it is his life-giving, life-changing spirit, the spirit of Pentecost that empowers us.。
And I need to tell you that serving others is a life-changing experience.。
God through his spirit works through us to make a difference in the life of the one being。
served while also making a difference in the life of the person doing the serving.。
Serving makes a difference in many ways.。
Number one, serving makes a difference in the life of the one being served.。
Remember last week we prayed for the team in Cambodia, the end of service?。
We've been getting daily reports from Johnny of how these people, these young people are。
making a difference with the young people in Cambodia and the church out there.。
As I say, Johnny's been updating us every day and yesterday he wrote this.。
I'll give you a spoiler alert, this will excite you.。
But today we took a step of faith and at the end of each class we gave students an opportunity。
to become friends with Jesus by inviting him into their lives as Lord and Savior.。
And almost every student prayed the prayer.。
In total, we saw over 300 students pray to ask Jesus into their life.。
If that's not worth a round of applause, I don't know what is.。
But serving also makes a difference in the life of the one serving.。
Pastor Johnny informs me that the major impact of this trip will be in those young people。
themselves.。
The three young people you prayed for a week ago.。
I'll be honest with you, I know churches would have said we only got three signed up for。
it, let's cancel the trip.。
It's not worth a week of Johnny's time.。
You prayed last week.。
Michelle got up here and said, actually, these four people are going on a mission trip, but。
you're all on the mission trip.。
Do you remember that?。
Over 300 students prayed to give their life to Jesus Christ.。
Serving makes a difference in the life of one serving.。
I know I've experienced myself.。
My third point is the difference that serving makes is life-changing.。
Let me expand.。
We all want our lives to matter, right?。
I hope you do.。
It's the reason we do the things we do.。
We chase our promotions and leadership positions because we want to make a difference.。
We encourage our kids to go to college, get a good job, make lots of money in hopes that。
they do, will also make a difference.。
There is nothing wrong with wealth or influence, but those things alone won't change the world.。
And they aren't what we were made for.。
We were made to build the church.。
Do you remember in January, to prepare us for serving, we discussed equipping the saints.。
I'll read it again.。
"And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to。
equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ until we。
all attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood,。
to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ."。
God made each one of us with unique talents, personalities, unique skill sets.。
We get the most joy and make the biggest difference when we use our God-given talents, gifts,。
and abilities to build the church.。
Let's read on.。
I love this.。
"So that we may no longer be children tossed and thrown by the waves and carried about。
by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes.。
Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into Him who is the。
head into Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with。
which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds。
itself up in love."。
As I close, I want to share eight ways.。
It's a good number in Hong Kong, right?。
Eight ways.。
It could have been seven, but it's eight ways.。
Eight ways that serving makes a difference.。
Number one, serving allows us to discover and develop our spiritual gifts.。
1 Corinthians 12 compares the church to the human body.。
Just like our body is made up of many parts serving specific functions, the church is。
made up of people with different skills and abilities.。
Alone, these pieces aren't very useful, but together we create something beautiful.。
I need you, you need me, we need each other.。
Serving makes a difference.。
Secondly, serving allows us to experience miracles.。
If you remember a few weeks back, I spoke about John 2.。
Jesus was at a wedding and a couple were running out of wine for its guests.。
He tells the servants to fill several big jars to the brim.。
When they served the water to the guests, it was wine.。
The guests never knew what happened.。
The servants were the one who witnessed the miracle.。
I'll say it again, it's important.。
The servants were the ones who witnessed the miracle.。
The same is true for us when we serve.。
My friends, serving makes a difference.。
Number three, serving allows us to experience the joy and peace that comes from obedience.。
One Peter 4 says, "Each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others。
as faithful stewards of God's grace in its various forms, so that in all things, God。
may be praised through Jesus Christ."。
Serving is a form of worship.。
Serving is a way to express gratitude for what Jesus has done for us and to share the。
love and grace that we've been given.。
Serving makes a difference.。
Number four, serving helps us to be more like Jesus.。
We shift the focus off of ourselves and onto others through serving.。
We begin to see others as Jesus sees them.。
And we see Jesus in others.。
Matthew 25 says, "Truly I say to you, as you did it to one of these, the least of my。
brethren, you did it to me."。
Serving makes a difference.。
Number five, serving surrounds us with other Christians who can help us follow Jesus.。
When we're working side by side with other people, a bond inevitably forms.。
That was part of God's plan for how the church is supposed to work.。
That's why Hebrews 10 says this, "Spur on, spur one another on towards love and good。
deeds, not giving up meeting together, but encouraging each other."。
Serving makes a difference.。
Number six, serving encourages, sorry, serving increases our faith.。
As we move out of our comfort zones, God increases our faith by revealing new potential in ourselves。
and in his church.。
When we see what he can do with his power at work with us, we begin to look for doors。
he is opening rather than pushing our ways through the ones he's closed.。
Ephesians 3:20 says, "Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all we can。
ask or think, according to the power at work within us."。
Serving makes a difference.。
Number seven, serving allows us to experience God's presence in new ways.。
Encouragement and healing go hand in hand.。
As we encourage others and they find healing, we're encouraged.。
It's the reason why so many people go on mission trips.。
Can I just say, if you get a chance to go on a mission trip, go!。
It will change you.。
People come home feeling that they got more than they gave.。
Serving makes a difference.。
And lastly, serving is good for your soul.。
Studies all over the world have shown that volunteering is so good for the mind and body.。
It can ease symptoms of stress and depression.。
Tapping into our gifts and passions builds self-confidence, energy, and strength.。
Serving others can be the best distraction from our own worries.。
Eight times, serving makes a difference.。
But we make all sorts of rational explanations not to serve.。
I don't have time.。
I don't know what I would do.。
I don't have any special skills to contribute.。
They don't need me.。
But the reality, and if you only pick one thing from this sermon, this is it.。
The reality is that God doesn't call the equipped.。
He equips the called.。
Can I say that again? That's so important.。
God doesn't call the equipped.。
He equips the called.。
God used men and women with similar doubts to change the course of history.。
Joyce told us that Gideon, remember, was the weakest man in the weakest clan.。
Yet God called him a mighty warrior and used him to defeat the Midianites.。
Moses, he didn't think he was a leader or a speaker.。
He had a stutter.。
But God worked through Moses to bring Israel out of slavery.。
David was the youngest and therefore most significant of all his brothers.。
But God worked through David to defeat a giant and eventually made him a king.。
Paul used to kill Christians before he met Jesus.。
But he went on to become one of the most highly regarded and prolific writers and church planters in history.。
God doesn't just want to work through you.。
He wants to work in you.。
Let me say it again. God doesn't just want to work through you.。
He wants to work in you.。
Yes, serving makes a difference.。
But God calls you.。
Who, me? Yes, you.。
To make yourself available.。
Like Gideon, like Moses, like David and Paul.。
Like the disciples on the day of Pentecost to be empowered by his spirit.。
Together, we can, as the early disciples discovered, change the world.。
Serving makes a difference.。
Let us on this Pentecost weekend seek his fresh anointing.。
Amen. Let's stand as the band comes back.。
We're going to sing a very simple chorus in a moment.。
it's one which those who've been brought up,。
maybe in the Anglican church will remember,。
is used at the end of a communion service。
and the words are very simple.。
Fill us up and send us out.。
Fill us up and send us out.。
Fill us up and send us out, Lord.。
A lot of the church,。
fill us up so I can feel good.。
Fill us up for all sorts of reasons.。
Fill us up, Lord,。
and send us out in the power of your spirit.。
If you're comfortable, just stretch your hands。
in front of you, I'm gonna pray。
and Paul's gonna sing to us.。
(gentle piano music)。
Lord, on this special weekend,。
thank you for bringing to our mind。
that we need to be filled。
but that we need to be sent.。
Holy Spirit, we need you.。
We can do nothing without you.。
Fill us afresh, we pray.。
And Lord, we pray that you'll commission us,。
that you'll send us to the poor, to the lonely,。
to the desperate, to the widow, to the orphan,。
to the refugee,。
to that person in the office who nobody talks to.。
Fill us afresh.。
We need you.。
(gentle piano music)。
Fill us up and send us out.。
[MUSIC]。
