I。
Good evening everybody and the first thing I want to say is a big. Thank you。
These last few weeks have not been easy for Sandra and I we actually have four。
Relatives who are shall I say on the final lap of their life?。
We don't know how long that laps going to be my two sisters my brother-in-law and in particular Sandra's father。
We almost didn't come back and it was a nip and tuck decision。
But I'm so pleased to be here with you. It's good to be back. I've really missed you。
I've missed preaching and you know, it's I want to encourage you though. I have two weeks. I I preached in Wales and。
I preached。
sermons from our church together series the Spirit-filled Church and the Kingdom Church and。
They liked it so much. They made it into a。
Small group material so they've got their own their own clan material out out of our sermon。
so what I'm gonna say just like the Alpha little acorns right growing into big trees and。
This alpha this time. It's been very small, but actually it's an acorn and。
It's great when churches around the world are doing。
Small group serious based on on our material here. So well done everybody。
But I'm back to the eight five two. I've loved the one Corinthian series and。
I want to thank Michelle twice Johnny not forgetting pastor Steve. That was amazing and。
I can't forget you Julie that that week on missions was incredible and。
We've been watching each week live and it's been amazing to see what God has been doing through this series。
And this is my first chance to speak on one Corinthians。
I'm grateful to bring this sermon。
It's it's track five in the one Corinthians series and it's on order in the church。
Now you might think this is a subject that is not a natural fit for me。
order in the church。
Let's be honest。
I'm often seen in church circles as a bit of a maverick。
Always seemingly pushing conventional boundaries。
I've put some pictures up just from here from KFC. I but I mean how many churches in the world? Do you know?。
When you talk about the kingdom of God, we did it with Lego sets. Do you remember that? We did the Lego building, you know。
how many churches in the world have。
Something like g5 series, you know where where our speakers are in their 20s and their 30s. Sorry Anthony。
But。
It was amazing, you know to see Bonnie and Gabe and Paul and Anthony speak to us in the g5。
How many churches when they do the armor of God?。
Demonstrate it in this way. Do you remember that? We're Chloe。
How many churches have a gender reveal in the service look?。
And。
I've even been known to preach。
With plastic fruit when we did the don't allow the enemy a seat at your table. I。
Guess you can say that I've sometimes well, maybe more than sometimes push the envelope。
Perhaps I should give you some background to that. See I I grew up。
I went to strict Anglican schools from from primary school to secondary school. I had to go assembly every day of the week。
I calculated that's over two thousand assemblies。
The only exception was the special days when we went to church like Saints days。
And I've got to be honest. It was kind of boring。
No, no, no, no. No. No, it was very boring and。
I。
Remember back. I think it was in I was 10 as 19. Yeah, they're right。
They're about I was 10 years of age and I just had a birthday and someone had just given me a football diary a soccer。
Diary for for those Americans and you know。
And I decided it would be far more interesting for me in church to read my football diary。
Than to to listen to the church service。
my headmaster didn't agree and。
Took me back to school gave me two strokes of the cane and for many years。
I thought of thought is God like that is God like a headmaster waiting to to give you the cane when you do。
Something wrong and as a result of this and other experiences。
I've become a strong opponent of。
legalism in the church and。
Have seen and spoken of the danger. You will have heard me of。
exalting the law of Moses above the grace of Jesus。
but actually I。
am a champion of。
church order or。
Should I say?。
biblical。
church order and。
Current one Corinthians is an ideal place to start to see what scripture has to say。
about this important subject I。
Mean to be honest. I'm not a fan of。
The free-for-all that I see in many so-called modern churches。
They often use the expression。
You've heard it as the spirit leads。
but actually。
why a。
hundred-percent support this sentiment I。
believe it is used as an excuse as much as a theological statement and。
The Apostle Paul would seem to agree with me。
the church in Corinth。
had become a decidedly as the spirit leads fellowship and。
It ended up quite frankly as a mess and I have witnessed this in。
churches even in modern times I。
Will cover the use of spiritual gifts in a future talk。
But it is the misuse of spiritual gifts, which has led to most of the Corinthian churches。
issues。
And my guiding verse for this evening's talk is this one Corinthians 1440. I've put it on the screen。
But all things should be done。
decently and。
In order, let me say it again。
But all things should be done。
decently and。
in order。
The problem with this is that one man's definition of decently and in order will vary from another。
That is maybe why we have close to 50,000 Christian denominations today。
so what I want to try to do is to put aside pastor John's version of。
decently and in order and。
attempt to see what the Bible says as。
described in Paul's first letter to the Corinthians。
in fact several of the Bible's principles of order within the church and。
Perhaps some of the most important ones are found in the book of one Corinthians。
This evening I'm going to address these particular matters。
to show that what we do as a church and。
How we do them are not arbitrary at all。
They are based on。
legitimate religious authority。
It's。
impossible to read the book of one Corinthians as we've been doing each week and not see Paul's。
Authority coming through now the amazing thing is。
He was almost certainly writing this in。
Ephesus。
Which was 300?。
Miles or so away. It's like me preaching this sermon tonight, but being in Hainan Island right exactly the same and。
Yet he was 300 miles away, but he was。
unquestionably still in charge still despite being separated by all this distance。
He was the one in charge of this church and this comes through in his writing. Look at this。
with a few strokes of the pen。
Though a few hundred miles away。
He does this he dis dis fellow。
Disfellowships a man who was sleeping with his father's wife. He gives instructions and direction like a general。
commanding his officers。
He also gives orders concerning judging。
lawsuits。
fornication marriage and divorce meets offer to idols。
idolatry the Lord's Supper preaching church services taking up a collection for the Jerusalem Saints and the way the。
Corinthians need to treat the ministry。
Paul's epistle is just chock full of。
instructions commands and orders。
Only a person who is dimwitted or intentionally blind would fail to see the authority in Paul's writing。
Paul's instruction on。
administration within the church are primarily in four chapters。
namely 9 11 12 and 14。
Although there are bits and pieces in various other sections。
these particular chapters covered the subjects of。
ministerial prerogatives。
privileges and rights。
the principle of headship。
the conduct of the Lord's Supper which we call communion the。
organized division of labor within the church and the order in church services I。
Will cover the last one in my talk on spiritual gifts in two weeks time。
Today, I will look at the other four。
Now you may feel these are all pretty。
fairly basic subjects。
But we must remember that there are four。
We must remember that the church in Corinth was a very young church。
It was by this time, maybe only five years old。
That's younger than KFC. I。
And it may have been less than that。
Accordingly they did not have a great church background。
some of them may have been Jews and had background in the synagogue and。
Some of these things may be brought from there。
Not all of them were though。
We have to remember where Corinth was and the makeup of its residents。
Where they were all from and the backgrounds they had。
Paul was trying desperately and an entirely new situation to bring order out of chaos。
to get people from Egypt Judea Asia Minor Europe and wherever else the people came from。
To all do and speak the same thing。
It was an enormous task it was enormous task to ask people to turn the cell phones off。
Paul never had cell phones in those days. I'm sure I。
Understand this I used to be pastor the vine and in the vine at time we had 55 different first languages。
It's difficult to bring them all together。
The first thing that Paul did of course。
Was to set down who was in charge。
He was。
From there they could work out the details。
There were problems in the Corinthian Church and they had been reported to Paul the situation was becoming worse。
Remember there were various factions。
We saw a few weeks ago for one said I follow Paul and another one says I follow a polis。
Are you not mere human beings?。
Paul thought the best thing to do in this situation was to set down plain and。
Understandable directions and that is exactly what he does in one Corinthians。
What we're going to do today is we're going to take an overview of these four major sections。
We're not going to try and go through every little detail because that would take too many sermons and I want to do this in only。
one。
Therefore if it's okay with you。
We will take the highlights out of this to allow you to understand the principles from which Paul was working。
And I've taught the first section。
ministerial authority rights and privilege。
Paul clearly wrote 1 Corinthians 9 because he felt。
defensive about his own position。
The reports he had received from those who had come from Corinth。
Included some that were very critical of Paul himself。
And we get so much of this in the modern church as well。
In other places it talks about how Paul sounded strong in his letters, but in person was rather weak。
He came across strong in those epistles, but when they saw him in person he was not what they expected。
Perhaps he seemed to be a pushover。
Paul's speech may even have had a lisp or stutter。
things they continued consider contemptible。
So Paul was feeling a bit defensive and he felt like he needed to set the record straight。
Paul。
Could not win。
He went into Corinth he decided not to take their tithes and to work for himself making tents。
We do not know for sure if he was married, but if he were he did not bring her along。
He brought no one with him as far as we know here。
He decided to do these things to help persuade them to the gospel。
Because he did not want to appear demanding things of them。
He did all of this out of the goodness of his heart trying to be a good example to them and it all got。
thrown back into his face。
Paul you are not a biggest person in this church as you say you are。
You do not have the authority you claim。
Paul then has to set the matter straight。
And in defending himself he explains the principles behind the authority he has。
As we start you'll notice from this chapter 9 notice the rhetorical questions he asked here。
rhetorical questions are questions that do not expect an answer。
Here we go 1 Corinthians 9。
Am I not free。
What he was?。
Am I not an apostle?。
Course he was have I not seen Jesus our Lord. He did。
Are you not my workmanship in the Lord?。
He then goes on。
If to others I am NOT an apostle。
At least I am to you。
For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. This is my defense to those who would examine me。
Do we not have the right to eat and drink?。
Do we not have a right to take along a believing wife or。
Do the other apostles and brothers of the Lord and Cephas or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to?。
refrain from working for a living。
Who serves as a soldier at his own expense?。
Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit and who tends a flock without getting some of its milk?。
Do I say these things on human authority。
Does not the law say the same for it is written in the law of Moses?。
You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain. Is it for oxen that God is concerned?。
Does he certainly not speak for our sake it was written for our sake?。
Because the plowman should plow in hope and the fresher fresh in hope of sharing in the crop if。
We have so spiritual things among you。
Is it too much if we reap material things from you if others share this rightful claim on you? Do we not even more?。
Nevertheless we have not made use of this right。
But we endure anything rather than put up an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ。
Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple?。
And those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings in the same way the Lord。
Commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel。
Interesting Paul's teaching style very infantile. It's the same way you teach a little child。
Do you know what this thing is? Yeah, this is one thing one. Do you know what the other one is?。
This is another one you put them together. How many do you have to?。
This is the way Paul is doing this. Am I not free?。
Point number one. Am I not an apostle point number two? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord point number three。
Are you not my work in the Lord point number four?。
He is just putting point after point after point。
Leading them to an obvious conclusion and the bottom line and the conclusion is in verse 14。
Those who proclaim the gospel。
Should get their living by the gospel that is the end of the matter for him. However。
The key word in this whole passage this whole section is translated into English as right or power。
Verse 4 do we not have the right to eat or drink?。
But this word actually means the authority to do something。
rather than the brute strength。
Authority has more to do with freedom and the right to do something。
This word can be translated a right authority power freedom privilege to leave permission power of rule or government。
It can be translated any one of those ways and even some others。
What he is saying throughout this whole chapter is the Paul。
Certainly have permission from Christ to do these things if he should need to。
They are part of the package of being a minister and certainly of being an apostle. I。
Have the awesome privilege of。
Fellowshipping with hundreds of pastors and ministers here in Hong Kong and around the world。
I've been honored and pastor Wayne's been part of this to host our international pastors breakfast here in Hong Kong for more than 15 years。
But what I've seen is that many ministers across the globe are。
Overworked。
Underpaid and。
undervalued I。
Have seen church leaders treated so badly in many cases in a way。
You would not even expect the secular world to treat its people. I could tell you some horror stories。
but I。
Have on the other hand。
seen church leaders。
Abuse their positions and cross the line from a perceived God-given right。
to an abuse of position and power。
Let's be clear。
Neither is correct and。
Paul is saying that in this chapter。
Christ gives his ministry authority within the church, which includes preaching teaching。
Organizing having a wife supported through contributions。
Paul's example however。
means that ministers must never abuse their authority by any means so as to bring glory to God and。
Praise no hindrance to the preaching of the gospel. I。
Need to move on get off my high horse the next session. I've entitled leadership。
headship or。
hierarchy。
Paul started off like this be imitators of me as I am of Christ。
That must have spurred a thought in him。
Because then he says now I commend you because you remember me and everything and maintain the traditions。
Even as I deliver them to you。
But I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ。
The head of a wife is our husband and the head of Christ is God。
I'm gonna skip the portion the 12 verses regarding head coverings and hair lengths. Brian you're safe. It's okay。
But I want you to look at this only a joke I。
think。
If anyone is inclined to be contentious。
We have no such practice。
Nor do the churches of God. I want to go back to verse 1 be imitators of me as I am of Christ。
He said imitate the Apostle as he follows Christ leads that in itself is hierarchy。
The Apostle is under Christ。
He then says in verse to maintain the traditions even as I deliver them to you。
In verse 3 he says in effect. There is a natural God ordained order authority。
There is God the Father there's Christ the Son there is man. There is woman and。
The full thing in verse 16 if anyone is inclined to be contentious。
We have no such practice。
Nor to the churches of God。
This is important。
One person's contentions are。
Not enough to overturn the long-standing practices of the Church of God。
I need to say this we get a lot this in church, right?。
one person's contentions one person's whim is。
Not enough to overturn the long-standing practices of the Church of God。
We need to be aware of the flavor of the month。
The flavor of the month in church and jump into the latest fad or fashion。
What the Apostle Paul is talking about。
Just because one person wants to introduce something that they may think is a good idea。
We should not make the change if it contradicts what has been traditional in the church and cannot be proven to be any better。
We've had many contentions。
over this principle headship leadership。
hierarchy。
But Paul states it clearly and unequivocally as a matter of fact in the next chapter。
He gives a kind of org chart for the Church of God。
1 Corinthians 12 28 and God has placed in the church first of all Apostles secondly prophets third teachers。
They're miracles then gifts of healing of helping of guidance and of different kinds of tongue. He has given us a ranking。
From top to bottom of authority of power and importance. This is repeated in Ephesians 4。
Now what this organizational chart does what this stacking of leadership on level that will fraud he does is to provide。
organization。
It provides order within the church a。
Tool that God has used from the very beginning。
In fact in 1 Timothy 2 Paul reaches back to Adam and Eve。
The man was created first and then the woman to show the proof that this is the way that God works。
Everywhere in the Old Testament is the same it worked for the patriarchs it worked for Moses and Joshua。
For David and the Kings Elijah and Elisha as well as it worked for the Apostles in the New Testament。
It is a consistent way that God works。
If we go to John 14 28 we see that Jesus。
recognizes the same thing for himself when he says。
the Father。
Is greater than I?。
There is a chain of command。
Jesus proceeds from the father the Holy Spirit proceeds from Jesus. There is a chain of command since God finds that this works。
He has put it in the church。
And one of the things I'm so grateful for us at KFC and KFC I is our deacons here。
You know, I've never in my years in the church known a group of deacons who've been more committed。
To the body of Christ who've worked so hard for the body of Christ and I I'm just so grateful。
That we have these men and women。
who fearlessly tirelessly。
support us and。
I'm so glad that we've got this order this authority in the church。
Now it doesn't mean there won't be any hurt feelings。
It doesn't mean there won't be any kind of discipline。
However, if it is done for love。
It's gonna produce what God intended it to produce。
And can I just say I've never found a church fellowship as loving as this one。
This is a loving fellowship if this is done in love。
if。
We use this principle the best interest of the church could be served。
So I want to assert some of this section the principle of headship。
provides。
organization within the church and。
enforces God's righteous standards。
within the church。
The next section concerns the Lord's Supper, which we call communion。
It says here。
The way that the Corinthian Church was observing the Lord's Supper was for the worse。
It was divisive. It was unloving it was self-serving and as Paul sums it up. It was unworthy。
Let's read it。
But in the following instructions。
I do not commend you because when you come together is not a place for the better。
But for the worse for in the first place when you come together as a church。
I hear there are divisions among you and I believe it in part。
For there may be factions among you in order that those who are genuine among you may be。
recognized。
In verse 20 when they came together to observe the festival. It was not to keep the Lord's Supper。
It was something very different. Let's read it when you come together。
It's not the Lord's Supper you're eating for an eating each one goes ahead of his own meal one goes hungry。
another gets drunk。
The way he goes on to explain it is almost like some pagan right they were doing。
They were getting drunk。
It was BYOB and happy hour rolled into one。
They brought more than one bottle of communion wine, I guess。
What they were calling the Lord's Supper was unfair because some could eat and some could not some got drunk and some did not。
They were actually shaming those who did not have the means to eat with them。
Remember this city was in many ways like Hong Kong。
very diverse。
With very poor people and very rich people。
There were Egyptians Jews Syrians and more from all over the Mediterranean。
All with different customs who brought their ideas into the Church of God。
evidently all mixed together。
They were having this out and out knees up to the point that people were actually getting drunk。
During what should have been the communion service. I think I'm quite glad we have grape juice。
What。
Paul essentially says is their practice was dishonoring Christ in the worst way his supreme sacrifice。
Does not seem to have been entered into their thinking at all. He had to remind them。
Look, this is why we come together for the Lord's Supper is the honor Christ。
He's to take the bread and remember his body and his take the wine。
I remember he shed blood and all the things that go with it。
He was telling them it was to be a sober evening in more ways than one. He had to lay the Lord down to them。
He told them that if they were spiritually discerning really spiritually discerning they would know better。
But they were such carnal people. He had to command them and judge them。
Look how he concludes this section。
So then brothers when you come together to eat wait for one another if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home。
So when you come together, it will not be for judgment。
About the other things I will give direction。
when I come in。
summary。
The church should not treat the Lord's Supper like a potluck。
or a feast。
When we take communion it is a sober commemoration of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ and should be。
Observed with the respect it deserves。
My last section is。
entitled organization and。
Division of labor within the church. I gotta tell you we could do a whole series on this one。
I hope you're not rushing off afterwards。
Look at these verses from 1 Corinthians 12。
For just as the body is。
One and has many members and all the members of the body low many are one body. So it is with Christ。
For in one spirit, we were all baptized into one body Jews and Greeks slaves and frees and we're all made to drink of the one。
spirit。
Verse 18, but as it is God arranged the members of the body each one of them as he chose。
verse 27 now you are the body of Christ and。
individually members of it。
Paul uses the analogy of the body to show how the church is organized and how is directed。
The body yours mine everybody's is directed by the head。
All the functions of the body begin in the mind and go through the nerves to the rest of the body and those parts perform。
their functions。
the body of Christ is the same way he is the head and。
He sends orders through his Holy Spirit to the rest of the body。
Since those are in his body have the Holy Spirit and can receive and be inspired by the Holy Spirit。
Those members do what Christ tells them to do。
Everything works together because we are all working towards the same goal。
Paul says here putting it in my own words that the body of Christ is a spiritual organism。
Every part has a place and a function every part has a place and a function and he。
Emphasizes that these places and these functions are determined by God the Father himself and are directed by Jesus Christ himself。
They are involved。
The father puts us where he wants us and then Jesus Christ says, okay dad. I can use this person and he gives his orders。
No person is。
Unneeded if God has put him into the body of Christ。
To sum up this section the Church of God is。
Organized by God under Christ to fulfill God's purpose in the church each member each member。
Each member has a place and a function that are necessary to reach the goal。
Wherever we have been placed。
We should be content。
I'll say that again。
Wherever we have been placed。
We should be content if we desire something more we need to wait for God's providence。
But in the meantime。
Continue working but。
Where I started。
But all things should be done decently。
and。
in order。
This verse comes as Paul。
concludes his focus on。
spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians 14 by。
Encouraging the whole church to come to worship ready to contribute。
But to do so in an orderly way。
So that people can be edified and。
built up in their faith。
Can I ask the worship band to come back and I'll sort of stand please。
What is it。
I'm desperate for us to be the church that Christ wants us to not just for us。
But for our city for our world。
You may have noticed we're in a mess。
Governments all around the world are in a mess。
We're gonna sing this song heal our land it's a prayer I。
Want to pray for us before we sing I。
Want to really as it were complete this picture together。
Because it's not my words it's not a sermon。
We need the Spirit of God to come upon the church。
To heal us there are so many divisions in the body of Christ I。
Said earlier, that's why we got 50,000 denominations。
50,000 I。
Say so many times you've heard me said there's only one church in Hong Kong Church of Jesus Christ。
We're gonna pray now Spirit of God fall on your church。
Pour out your presence。
Bible says if my people will call by my name will humble themselves and pray I will hear their prayer. I。
Will come from heaven and I will heal their land。
So I'm gonna ask you before we sing just to stretch your hands out in front of you。
When I asked the Holy Spirit to come to us we need this the church in Hong Kong needs this。
Father we thank you for the church. We thank you for the church you。
Ordained we thank you Lord for the way you spoke about order in the church。
We thank you for this body。
Thank you for our deacons I thank you for pastor Peter I thank you for those who。
Have served this church for more than 35 years。
I。
Just see us here in Admiralty in this place I。
See us as beacon I see us as a lighthouse for this city I。
Don't want to take it for granted where we are here, but God has put us here for a purpose。
Lord in a city, which is so divided。
Politically socially economically。
For families that are divided。
We say Lord would you pour out your spirit on this land。
Would you start with us Lord we are open to receive we are open to be used。
Pour out your spirit on this church we pray。
Pour out your spirit on our leaders on our helpers。
I。
Pray Lord that we would become the church that you saw。
In your mind on that day of Pentecost when the Holy Spirit came and lit the flame and the church began。
May we be that church and may we be a beacon here for the people of this city and this nation。
In Jesus name。
Let's sing this song heal our land。
(gentle music)。
you。
