Hello. All right. It seems my shoes are a hot topic these last few weeks. This is one。
third of my shoe collection. All right. So anyway, me and my wife Mel, we have this dog.。
Technically we're dog sitting. He's a Sheba and he's very cute. His name is Kit. Many。
people here know him and he even has his own little fan club. And he's very cute because。
instead of barking, he likes to speak. Instead of barking, he'll be like, "Rawr, rawr, rawr,。
rawr." And so we love it. But this dog requires time and attention. Now I, as an important。
person, sometimes have important things to do. Now that might be going to work, might。
be picking up Mel, et cetera. Now Kit, I wouldn't say he's a distraction. He's a dog in need。
of care and attention. But it can be inconvenient that he can get in the way while I'm trying。
to get on with more important things. This actually happened just this afternoon. I was。
going through this sermon and then he's terrified of thunder and some dark clouds formed. I。
couldn't hear any thunder. But as I'm at my computer, he comes up and reaches out, shaking。
and trembling. Now I'm like, "Oh, can't you see I have more important things to do. I'm。
trying to prepare God's word. Come on." But he needed my care and attention. Don't worry.。
I played with him and he calmed down more because of the clouds subsiding than anything。
I did. But now this situation for me, this is very low stakes, but we could just see。
a little bit in this story that Jesus is on his way to this important task of healing。
this synagogue leader's daughter when this nameless outcast woman comes to him for her。
own healing. So quick recap, Jesus is on the shore of the lake. A synagogue leader named。
Jairus comes and begs Jesus to heal his daughter who is at the point of death. So they set。
out on their way. Then out of the crowd, this nameless woman approaches Jesus, touches his。
garment and is healed from a bleeding that she'd suffered for 12 years. Jairus is then。
informed his daughter has died and then Jesus goes on anyway. Instead of just healing her,。
he raises her from the dead. Now this is an amazing story of Jesus overcoming seemingly。
impossible circumstances. And this is also recounted in Matthew 9 and Luke 8. However,。
the longest and most detailed version of this story is actually in the shortest of all the。
gospels, Mark. Now the woman and the young girl are often referred to as the two daughters.。
And we see there are quite a few points of similarities and also some contrasts. And。
this is something Mark really tries to spoon feed to us. In both of these cases, we see。
great examples of faith in the face of hopeless circumstances. Both come at a risk. For Jairus,。
his reputation as the synagogue leader. For the woman, further consequences for breaking。
her quarantine. Both are unclean. Firstly, the woman, according to Leviticus 15, and。
with the young girl, according to Numbers 19 11, where anyone who touches a corpse will。
become unclean for seven days. Both are called daughter. The woman called daughter by Christ。
himself and the young girl, a daughter of Jairus, who is advocating for her. And then。
12 years, the woman has had 12 years of suffering and the girl in this story is 12 years old.。
And in both of these, the care that Jesus shows for them goes beyond their request.。
The differences, however, are pretty stark. Jairus is a synagogue leader while the woman。
is a lowly and now poor outcast. Jairus can offer status and good standing. The woman。
has nothing to offer Jesus. Jairus is able to approach Jesus face to face where the woman。
in fear of potential consequences comes behind and in secret. One healing is in public, one。
in private. I don't mean like Queen Mary and sanatorium. While the woman's heal is out。
in public for all to see, the young woman is healed in private with only a select few。
privileged to witness. And finally to the 12 years, we see 12 years of joy with one。
daughter and 12 years of suffering. Often in this story, we tend to focus on the great。
faith of these people and the healing power of Jesus. Both of these are extremely important。
and we will look at these, but what we want to focus on is the heart of Jesus here and。
how he cares for them. And then as Christ followers, how we can then care for others。
as he has shown us. So in order to see that more fully, we need to gain a greater understanding。
of these characters. So who is Jairus? So in verse 22, we see he's one of the synagogue。
rulers. He wasn't a priest, but was in charge of a lot such as conducting of public worship,。
reading of scriptures, procuring of scrolls, arranging of Sabbath worship, et cetera. This。
was a man well respected and holding influence in the community. And at this time there was。
a lot of overlap between the synagogues and then public life, politics, et cetera. So。
this was a man well respected. And if it's not clear enough, actually it's significant。
that we know Jairus' name. Mark was written by Mark from the account of Peter. So this。
man was prominent enough that Peter knew who he was and remembered him. Now, what's the。
big deal of Jairus coming to Jesus? Why would this be risk or taboo? If we look back at。
Mark 3, there's a story of Jesus healing on the Sabbath. This leads to Mark 3 verse 6,。
where the Pharisees started to plot with the Herodians at how they might kill Jesus. Later。
in that same chapter, Jesus was accused by the teachers of law of being demon possessed。
by Beelzebul, the prince of demons. Jairus knew who Jesus was, hence why he came to him。
to ask for his help. However, being a ruler of the synagogue, many of the reports by which。
he would have come to know Jesus were likely quite unfavourable. But unable to do anything。
to fix his own daughter's health, he comes before Jesus and falls at his feet, pleading,。
"Please come to my daughter so that she may live." Given how Jesus was viewed, there was。
risk for Jairus in doing this, even in acknowledging him, let alone begging at his feet. Can you。
imagine if down at Central Harbour, there was this new young pastor who was somewhat。
controversial, making waves, and he comes in on the Star Ferry on a busy Sunday afternoon.。
All of a sudden, Pastor John runs down, falls at his feet, "Help! Help! I need your help!"。
This is the kind of scene that we're looking at. He's actually debasing himself, and it's。
a bit of an embarrassing scene, or an uncomfortable scene. Now Jairus says, "Come put your hands。
on her so that she will be healed and live." He is convinced that Jesus can heal his daughter.。
Jairus shows faith beyond doubt, and is willing to exercise that faith at the expense of other。
comforts he enjoys. And here it's important to ask ourselves, are we willing to do that?。
From wherever we come from in society, that may be a successful CEO, a real estate mogul,。
a pastor, celebrity, teacher, student, wherever that may be, are we willing to let go of whatever。
security we cling to, and to come to Jesus as a grovelling beggar, regardless of what。
it may look like to others, knowing that only he is the one with all power and authority,。
declaring that we need him. Now this is all any of us can do when it comes to our salvation.。
I've achieved this and that, but it is nothing. My only hope is falling down before Jesus。
as a hopeless beggar. Now Jesus has compassion on Jairus and his daughter, and he agrees。
to go. All right, so then in this story, we're coming up to Jesus' big moment. If he can。
heal Jairus' daughter, the Pharisees and teachers will know he's legit, and everyone will get。
on board the Jesus train. Remember Jairus has good standing. This may be like doing。
a favour for someone high up in the jockey club or something. If I can get this person。
on my side, this whole town's mine. Yeah, that kind of thing. Ipso facto, everyone loves。
Jesus. What could be more important than that? Now, on the way to Jairus' place, we see this。
woman who had suffered from bleeding for 12 years. She had spent all her resources with。
physicians and her condition had only gotten worse. Not wanting to cause a scene, she comes。
up behind Jesus, touches his cloak, and then instant healing. She knows it, and Jesus feels。
power going out from him. This woman heard about Jesus and knew that if she could just。
touch his cloak, she'd be healed. Now, this is one of two of the big healing climaxes。
in this story, and they are amazing. This woman is healed instantly. Jesus has the power。
and authority and care to bring healing. This is worthy of our awe and praise. Make no mistake.。
Jesus is able to heal and heal instantly. Now, how is this applicable to us to go and。
do likewise? God has given each of us different gifts and can give us spiritual gifts. And。
for some of us, that does include the gift of healing as well. But whatever gifts that。
we have and whatever he's gifted to you, we need to use that to care for others. Now,。
there are a few things in this situation that now Jesus would have given Jesus just the。
right to carry on. Firstly, they had somewhere to be, and not somewhere insignificant. A。
young girl was at death's door. I checked with my wife, Mel, who's an ICU doctor, and。
even though there is a lack of detail in the diagnosis here, she was able to confirm that。
the state of dying does register as being quite urgent. So secondly, unlike Jairus,。
the woman had nothing to offer Jesus. Thirdly, the woman was unclean. Her act jeopardized。
Jesus and also was a risk to the rest of the people there. What this woman did may be like。
someone in 2020 coming and asking for help and coughing all over your face in the process.。
You've put me at risk and now I can't go and help anyone else. You know, best to move on。
without drawing attention to it. And fourthly, she was already healed. Good deed done. Time。
to move on. Let's get this show back on the road. If I had been in a situation, I'd probably。
just go on, you know, you're welcome, good luck, and keep on going. If I'm being honest,。
I might even do this if I'm just heading home to watch Netflix, you know, let alone going。
somewhere important. But what does Jesus do? He cares for her. He turns around, he seeks。
out who touched my clothes. Now on the face of it, this is just an insane question. You。
can see the disciples are like, what are you talking about? Literally everyone is touching。
you. Verse 24 tells us that the crowds were pressed against him. This isn't leading just。
like an entourage and in some photo scenic shoot through, through the streets. This is。
a chaotic scene. It's like going to Chinese new year flower markets or the front row of。
Jay Chow and then saying, did someone just, did I just touch someone's shoulders? Like。
this is a chaotic, chaotic scene. Now the disciples wanted to keep moving, but not Jesus.。
He persists until the woman comes forward. Jesus takes precious time with this woman.。
And we've probably all heard the saying in many different iterations, but where you spend。
your time is what you value. Often we hear this in like a motivational context, you know,。
let's hit those career goals or whatever. But think of Jesus here spending the precious。
time with this woman and what impact that has. A few weeks ago, Michelle spoke about,。
you know, Jesus accepting the rejected by staying close to them. At this time, he could。
have easily moved on. He accepts this rejected woman and stays close to her. Jesus care takes。
time. And what about us? Does our time value the lowly, the difficult, those suffering。
with mental illness? Does our use of time show that we care for others or does it just。
show self-importance? How often would we be willing to let some intruder into our space。
and stop us from getting to our important place? It could even be a ministry like, like。
what in Jesus case. Yeah, I know for me as an introvert who values punctuality and likes。
to know what's going to happen in my day, this is a struggle for me. Yeah. So now this。
isn't permission just to be late. So please, please, for my sanity's sake, don't misunderstand。
me. But it wouldn't it be great if whenever we were say late somewhere, instead of it。
just being like, Oh, I just forgot to leave on time. But instead we thought, I just, I。
just saw someone who needed a meal and then they need to talk through some issues and。
I just had to care for them. Yeah. What if we got to church and we're like, where's。
the worship team today? And it's like, well, everyone was on their way, but God showed。
them someone he loves and we just couldn't help but care for them. Hope everyone likes。
singing how great is our God, but wouldn't this actually be amazing? So Jesus persists.。
She comes, falls at his feet and tells him the truth. She comes with fear, which is very。
rational. She's meant to be quarantined, not to make anyone else unclean. She had thought。
if she could just get physical healing, then I can sneak away, wait it out and go through。
the ritual of ceremonial cleansing and then reenter society. Surely Jesus is about to。
scold her. How dare you? You've put me and all these others at risk, but Jesus not content。
with her just having physical healing, wants to restore her fully. He says to her, daughter,。
your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be freed from your suffering. His care welcomes。
her in. Now this is the only time recorded that Jesus calls someone daughter. Jesus calls。
this woman he hadn't met, was ostracized and in suffering, daughter. And remember this。
context, this is in front of a crowd that had just seen Jairus come and plead for the。
case of his daughter. So Jesus in front of this crowd calls this woman who had been outcast。
daughter saying to her and this crowd, see this love that Jairus has for his daughter,。
how precious she is to him. This is the care that I have for this woman. Hey everyone,。
see this woman who just went through 12 years of suffering. She is loved by me and I call。
her daughter. See how Jairus pleaded with me for his daughter. Well, I advocate to the。
father for her, just as he does for each of us. 1 John 2, 1 says we have an advocate with。
the father, Jesus Christ. Jesus welcomes her in, not just as a friend or fellow citizen,。
as he's loved and cherished daughter for all to see. Now do we care for people by welcoming。
them in, not just keeping them as outsiders, but truly you're part as part of our family.。
And this same action, he brings her into the kingdom. Just as Jesus welcomes us into the。
God's kingdom by taking our sins, here he is bringing her into this kingdom. And this。
is a very important part of our care for others. We need to be caring for others spiritually,。
knowing them Jesus, inviting them into the kingdom with actions and words, not either。
or and nurturing their walk with Jesus once they know him. Now, normally in this time。
after recovering from this, she would need to still go see a priest for cleansing. In。
Mark chapter one, Jesus commands Leopard to do this after he heals him. However, this。
was primarily done as a testimony to the priest. But here Jesus makes no such command. He is。
the high priest. She is fully restored. She comes seeking physical healing, but Jesus。
cares for her far beyond her expectations and hopes, beyond what she even thinks she。
needs. He wants to do so much more than just take care of her physical healing. He gives。
her ceremonial healing, social restoration, and a spiritual home. He goes beyond what。
is asked, doing much more than what she thought to seek out. And he's also really holistic。
in nature. So back to Jairus. Here in the story, now we see Jairus receives the news。
that his daughter has died. Jesus was aware of what Jairus must have been going through.。
And as he receives the news, Jesus comforts Jairus, "Don't be afraid. Just believe."。
So even though Jesus is already going to help Jairus by literally raising his daughter from。
the dead, he doesn't abandon him. He's present with Jairus, comforting him and encouraging。
his faith in this extremely difficult time. And then we get to Jairus' home. We see the。
mourners. This would have been yet another chaotic, loud scene. At this time, it was。
required even for poor people to have at least two flute players and one professional mourner.。
Jairus, being someone of higher stature, it could be assumed that there were considerably。
more. Add to that just family and friends who were there mourning. So quite a chaotic。
scene. And then when Jesus declares, "She is not dead, but asleep," they laugh at him.。
A quick look again at the faith of Jairus. Firstly, there are so many times when he could。
have just given up faith in Jesus. Firstly, the risks of even going to him in the first。
place. Then hearing his daughter has died. Now in the face of scoffers. I mean, do you。
want to be associated with this joker or reality? We need to remember there are so many chances。
for us as well to lose our faith in Jesus. But we need to always be refocusing on Jesus.。
Refocusing on him. It's not a one-time event. So Jairus keeps his faith in Jesus and Jesus。
privileges just the girl's parents and James, John and Peter to witness the miracle of him。
raising this girl from the dead. Jesus takes it by the hand. Remember, according to numbers,。
this would make him unclean for seven days. Again, he goes beyond his initial requests。
made by Jairus and the girl is raised from the dead. Now Jesus tells them to get the。
girl something to eat. Even after this healing, he's looking out for her wellbeing. Now, verse。
43 is an extremely important verse where we see more of Jesus' character. We see he gives。
strict orders not to tell anyone about this. I mean, why? Does he not want to rub it in。
the face of the naysayers outside? Does he not want vindication amongst the community?。
Jesus often gave this command after healing. He was careful not to hinder his ministry。
and did not want the physical healings and miracles to be the central focus of his ministry.。
In Mark chapter one, we see him make this same command, which then he's disobeyed and。
he is swamped so much that he can no longer openly enter towns, but stayed outside in。
lonely places. There's also an element of danger. We know that there were already plots。
to kill him already coming together. So by having people go and tell of this amazing。
miracle, it could actually detract from Jesus' primary mission, restoring our relationship。
with the father. But as we see here, he also cares about every other aspect of our lives.。
So what does this tell us about Jesus? While we may have thought that caring for Jairus。
could give us some good returns, Jesus' care for Jairus and his daughter was never self-seeking.。
The first healing he did was in public, partly because it was in that moment, but then afterwards。
was that the woman needed public restoration. This one, however, was done in private, deliberately。
away from the crowds. It was never about boosting his reputation and standing. In fact, it was。
potentially detrimental to him and his ministry. But this was the love he had for Jairus and。
his daughter. He saw his face, he had compassion, and despite what cost it may have brought。
upon himself and his ministry, he loved and he acted on that and cared for them. Now,。
how about us? Do we care about others for some potential later reward, or just because。
we genuinely love them? Or do we do this in choosing who we show care to in the first。
place? So we look at the two characters in the story, how different they both are. We。
see that Jesus doesn't discriminate with his care. We see Jesus bring healing to a。
nameless woman with no social status, and at a time where women often weren't counted。
or considered reliable witnesses. He doesn't weigh up, "Look, I could help this woman,。
but what am I going to get out of it?" Jesus takes time from what many of us would consider。
to be the more important task, to care for and validate this woman when it would have。
been so much easier to move on. But what about Jairus? We know Jesus loves the poor, he elevates。
them. But here we see he also cares and loves about those with status and resources. This。
doesn't put Jairus out of his love and grace. Just like this woman, Jairus and his daughter。
are completely reliant on Jesus, not partly. One of them does not need Jesus any more or。
less than the other. Their standing does nothing for them. They both need Jesus completely,。
100%. And he cares for them above or despite reputation, purity, expectation, status, etc.。
Now, how about us? Do we look at the lowly and think, "Ah, not important enough for。
me." Or do we do the opposite, looking at those with status saying, "They live on。
the peak. They're fine. They're a pastor. They're good. My care is going to those。
who truly need it." In both of these situations, we see Jesus go above and beyond what is asked.。
The woman just wants physical healing. Jesus gives her social and spiritual healing. Jairus。
seeks out healing for his sick daughter. Jesus goes and raises her from the dead, comforting。
Jairus along the way and on and on. He cares deeply and won't settle for saying, "I've。
done my bit. Nothing else in it for me. Kind of diminishing returns from here." He doesn't。
think of it this way. And think of it, if we're caring for a loved one, we don't。
just go give him a Panadol and, "Yeah, that'll be enough." Like, I hope not anyway.。
But no, we try to do everything we can for them and make sure they're okay. We see。
this in Jairus breaking down before Jesus. This is the love that Jesus has towards this。
woman and to Jairus and his daughter. And it's important to pause here for anyone who。
may not know, but this is the care that Jesus has for each of us. For you, for you, for。
me, and all of us. He cares for each of us in this way. As followers of Christ, we are。
called to follow Christ's example in this. In this story, we saw some amazing examples。
of faith, but we aren't called to be Jairusites. We're called to be Christians. The one we。
are called to be like is the one ministering to these people. And we are to do likewise。
to the lady on the MTR, the man under the bridge, the real estate mogul, or that politician.。
So how does our care look in comparison? You know, looking at this, what do we do? Do we。
use our gifts to care for others? Do we value others with our time? Do we truly welcome。
those on the outside in? Do we invite people into his wonderful kingdom? Do we do the bare。
minimum or do we go beyond what is asked of us? Are we present with people who need our。
care? Are we self-seeking with some ulterior motive? Or do we genuinely care for others?。
And how do we discriminate one way or another in who we care for? Now this, I know, is a。
little bit overwhelming. And honestly, I don't know about you, but when I look at the standard。
that Jesus sets in this story, I can't live up to that, honestly. Maybe, maybe like a。
teeny fraction, but I can't care for others in this, in this degree that he does. I mean,。
look at this list, for example. But this is not a guilt trip. You know, this care that。
is shown by Jesus in this story is, is actually supernatural. It's well and truly beyond us.。
But hold on a moment. See, as Christians, we instinctively look at the miracle of healing。
in this story. And we know that for something like that, we need to rely on God and rightly。
so. But what else do we see in this story? We see Jesus breaking barriers of social stigma,。
publicly welcoming an outcast in his family, offering comfort, not showing favoritism based。
on worldly status, bringing people into right relationship with him, etc. Jesus cared because。
he loved them, because that's who he is. And just as we need great faith and to rely on。
him to do these miracles, as he does, we also need to exercise faith and rely wholly on。
him to care for others in the way that he does. You know, you know, that warning of,。
you know, do not try this at home. Well, it's kind of similar here. Do not try this in your。
own strength. It's a kind of love that amazes the world because it's beyond what they're。
used to. So by definition, it's not natural. The lesson isn't that Jesus set this example.。
So we need to run around making sure we care a whole lot, burning ourselves out. I think。
this is, can be a common mistake we can make. That just that we love and care for the others。
to this level because we're good, we're good people. No, remember what James talked about。
last week. We are Christians because we acknowledge that we are sinners and that we fall short。
and we need Jesus. We know we should love like Jesus does, but it's hard. We need Jesus。
in order to care like he did. I hope that's at least a relief to you because the standard。
Jesus sets is so high, it's burdensome for us to try to do this in our own strength.。
But this doesn't mean we're off the hook either. We are called to do this, so we must grow.。
Now we've broken down a few ways just to see the depth of care that Jesus has. And these。
really are manifestations of his love. Think of that famous, think of the famous John 3。
16, "For God so loved the world, he gave his one and only son. Whoever believes in him shall。
not perish, but have eternal life." If we look at this, because God loved us, he sent。
Jesus to come and take care of our greatest deed, which is salvation and eternal life。
in him. Or think of the example Jesus gives with the Good Samaritan in talking about the。
commandment to love our neighbor as ourselves. He depicts that as this Good Samaritan taking。
care of this other man's, this stranger's needs. If we want to truly care, we need to。
truly love. We want to love like Jesus loved, seeing others as he sees them, valuing them。
as he does. It is then that our care for others will look like what he has shown us here as。
we operate in his strength rather than our own.。
All right, so here is my practical challenge for all of us. This is a small challenge that。
anyone can do. Now, is there anyone here that goes about their day every day and never sees。
or hears or comes in contact with another person? No one? Good, good. So we're all able。
to do this. We're all eligible. All right, a great place for this might be an MTR or。
a bus. You know those busy places where we get mad at everyone else for making it busy,。
but not ourselves. I don't make it busy. Everyone else does. Or a restaurant, a park,。
somewhere where you're idle for at least five minutes is ideal. But the challenge is this,。
just find one person. Don't stare at them, but just ask God to help you see them as he。
sees them. Spend some time praying for them. Ask God to help you value this one precious。
person out of the nearly eight million people in this city. What better thing to do in our。
commute or lunch break? We want to do this daily, making it a habit that we just genuinely。
love and care about the people around us and get that in our hearts first. And then as。
we grow, we can more and more, bit by bit, be living out the example that Jesus sets。
out in this story, bringing glory to him. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you care。
for each and every one of us so deeply. We thank you that you are a God who goes beyond。
our expectations, what we ask for. You are present with us. And Lord, you are good to。
us. And we ask that you would give us strength to love and care like you do. That we would。
see those around us as you see them. That you would help us in this, Lord. And we ask。
for your grace in this as we fall short. And Lord, we give our hearts to you, Lord. And。
we ask that you would be doing your will in us. And that in and through us, Lord, you。
will be revealing more and more of yourself to the world. It is in your name. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
