>> Good evening, everyone.。
It's good to see you all.。
What a powerful story.。
What a powerful story as we watch how Jesus was filled with compassion for the people that he met.。
It's an honor to be able to share just on this passage a little bit with you guys today.。
So anyway, great to see you all.。
The title is "Believing and Seeing."。
I am going to screen share and actually control the slides from here.。
So let's see if this works.。
Brilliant.。
So the title of today's sermon is "Believing is Seeing."。
And, of course, focusing on that passage, and I'm going to be landing there.。
But I wanted to encourage you, if you do have a paper Bible, I would encourage you to put it in front of you,。
because we are going to fly around a little bit.。
Because actually when this sermon topic and title was given to me, the passage was actually longer.。
And I wondered why was it so long.。
It actually went from Mark 6 to Mark 9.。
So I decided to focus on Mark 9.。
But then realizing afterwards that actually the context behind all of this, what happens beforehand,。
actually really helps emphasize what happens here in Mark 9, and it's almost a climax.。
So I'm going to fly through a little bit.。
I did a bit of a word play on, again, it's not creative.。
Other people have done it as well.。
There's a saying which is "Seeing is believing."。
I'm sure there may have been people that you know who said they will believe in Christianity,。
they will believe in Jesus if they see him.。
I have to see it to believe it.。
Have you heard of that?。
I have to see it to believe it.。
But you see, the truth is that isn't how things work.。
You don't see something and then believe it.。
We don't necessarily see the virus, at least with our naked eye, but we know that it's existing。
and it's seemingly alive and well.。
We don't actually truly get to see how a vaccine works, whether it works or not, actually.。
And there's so much fake news going around.。
So even if you do see something with your own eyes, how convinced are you that it is real?。
So really it isn't you have to see it to believe it, but rather at least if we look in Scripture,。
what we see is actually if we are to have faith in something, we have to believe first before we see it.。
St. Augustine was the one who said, "Faith is to believe what you do not see.。
The reward of this faith is to see what you believe."。
Let me just say that again.。
"Faith is to believe what you do not see.。
The reward of this faith is to see what you believe."。
Martin Luther King would say, "Faith is taking the first step, even when you don't see the whole staircase."。
So taking that first step, that's why it's called a leap of faith.。
You have to take that step first before you see it.。
And one of my favorite quotes of all time by C.S. Lewis says this,。
"I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen, not only because I see it,。
but because by it I see everything else."。
And Christianity, our faith, gives us the lens to see.。
And so therefore, believing is seeing.。
Now we here are believers.。
Most of us here are believers.。
And actually, we've believed in Jesus without ever seeing him.。
Actually, Jesus talks about that to John in John chapter 20, where he says,。
"Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed."。
So actually, right here, right now, brothers and sisters, we are blessed.。
We are blessed because we profess to have faith and believe in Jesus.。
And we haven't even seen him yet.。
Have you also wondered, actually, just seeing Jesus isn't enough to actually believe him?。
Imagine all the people that saw him when he was on the earth.。
Not all of them believed him.。
In fact, plenty wanted to kill him.。
So it's not as simple as that, is it?。
If there are people who come to us and say, "Hey, I won't believe in Jesus until I need to see it for my own eyes."。
No, actually, there's plenty of people who have actually seen Jesus in real life,。
seen him do miracles, yet still don't believe.。
So the equation isn't that simple.。
In fact, Jesus himself has his parable, and it's a strange parable.。
We won't have time to go into it today, but in Luke chapter 16, and he finishes and he says this.。
He says, "If they don't even listen to Moses and the prophets,。
they will not be convinced even if someone rises from the dead."。
He's saying it's not as simple as, hey, just seeing someone rise from the dead and they'll believe.。
In fact, if they're not going to do it then, they're not going to do it now.。
What he's saying is that faith is a matter of the heart.。
It doesn't matter how many miracles you see.。
It doesn't matter how many things you say you want to see, but faith ultimately comes down to a matter of the heart.。
And we see here in Mark chapter 9, at the very end, the Father declares those words that have always been with me.。
"I believe, help my unbelief. I believe, help my unbelief."。
And I want to talk about that, but before that, I want to really go into just some of the background, some of the context.。
You see, up until now, these last few chapters, Jesus has been on a tear.。
He has been just going on miracle after miracle.。
Luke chapter 6, he sends out the 12 disciples, and then he hears about the death of John the Baptist.。
And then 6 verse 30 in the book of Mark, Jesus feeds the 5,000, one of the most famous miracles that he does.。
People turn up, they're hungry, there's no bread, but boom, Jesus feeds them all.。
Immediately after that, in verse 45, he walks on water.。
So first he feeds the 5,000, then he walks on water, he's going on a tear, and then he heals the sick.。
And then he starts talking to the Pharisees, and then he heals more people.。
And then in chapter 8, he does something very funny.。
After feeding 5,000, he then feeds 4,000.。
But it's really interesting here. The disciples, I want to highlight something here.。
The disciples saw him feed the 5,000. A couple of chapters later, they're in the same situation.。
And now in chapter 8, verse 4, there's 4,000 people that need to be fed now.。
And even though they just had witnessed him feeding 5,000, they still ask the same question.。
How can one feed these people with bread here in this desert place?。
They just saw him multiply enough bread to feed 5,000 people.。
And now here is a similar situation, but they're still asking the same question.。
So they saw it, but they didn't believe it.。
So again, it's a matter of the heart. It's a matter of did they really understand what was happening?。
Did they really understand who Jesus was?。
And then in chapter 8, verse 11, the Pharisees come along.。
They hear about all these things and the Pharisees come along and they demand a sign.。
They demand a sign from heaven.。
A sign from heaven to prove that he really is God, that he really does have authority that comes from God.。
And then he says this really damning reply.。
Why does this generation seek a sign?。
Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation.。
No sign will be given to this generation.。
Again, these Pharisees, they're coming. They will have heard about all the miracles.。
They may have even seen some themselves.。
Yeah, here they're wanting Jesus to do something mad.。
They're wanting him to open up the heavens, which already happened, actually, when the dove came down and descended on him.。
But they wanted something like that. But Jesus is saying, no, you don't get it.。
Even if I did something like that, you still wouldn't believe because your heart is not right.。
Your heart is still hard.。
And so the disciples, going back to them, they see Jesus feed 5000.。
They see him walk on water. They see him, see him healed person after person.。
Then they see him feed the 4000.。
And then they get on a boat. And this is the fascinating thing.。
Eight verse 14. They forget to bring bread.。
After all those miracles about bread and they had so much left over, they forgot to bring bread.。
And Jesus on the boat starts teaching them.。
Eight verse 15. Watch out. Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of the of Herod.。
But verse 16, they basically completely ignore him and they begin discussing with one another the fact that they had no bread.。
So after all these huge miracles about bread and about feeding thousands of people, they still don't get it.。
They're on a boat now. Someone forgot to bring bread and they're arguing on a boat, completely missing the point of what Jesus is teaching them.。
And they're still arguing about the bread.。
They saw it time and time again, yet they did not believe.。
And so Jesus can't control himself anymore and he has to rebuke them.。
Why are you discussing the fact that you have no bread?。
Can you imagine the outrage of what Jesus is feeling right now?。
I've shown you so much yet you still don't get.。
Do you not yet perceive or understand? Are your hearts hardened?。
Having eyes, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear?。
And do you not remember?。
Then he actually asked them, when I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets were left?。
They said, twelve. And the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets were left?。
Seven. And he said to them, do you not understand?。
Do you not understand? And then Jesus, he was a blind man.。
And then there is the most incredible scene in Mark, chapter nine, the transfiguration.。
He takes Peter, James and John up to the mountain and suddenly Elijah and Moses turn up.。
And it's just, I can imagine it's the most incredible mountaintop experience any human being has ever had.。
They come back down from the mountain and there's chaos and there's people arguing.。
And that's where that Lumo video just picks up.。
And he sees people arguing because the other disciples who were left at the bottom of the mountain,。
they were arguing because they were trying to figure out how to exercise this demon.。
And that is where we land today. Mark, chapter nine, verse 14 to 29.。
Jesus heals a boy with an unclean spirit.。
And he comes down. Imagine having that moment. The face is still glowing.。
It was just the best mountaintop experience. They come down.。
Yet people are arguing and the disciples that he left behind were now powerless.。
They couldn't exercise this demon from this child who was foaming at the mouth, grinding his teeth.。
This is, experts will say that this is the modern day epilepsy.。
And of course, also possessed by a demon and the disciples, they couldn't do it.。
They couldn't cast out the demon. And that's when, as we saw in the video, chapter nine, verse 19,。
Jesus says, "Oh, faithless generation, how long am I to be with you?。
How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me."。
And then they bring the child to him. And then Jesus asks a very personal question to the father.。
As a caring doctor would ask a patient, "How long has he been suffering from this?"。
And the father, being like any parent who is just desperate, completely helpless,。
and maybe even hopeless without running out of ideas, says, "He's been like this since childhood.。
He's threatened to kill his life quite a few times."。
And that's where Jesus says, and then the father says, "But if you can do anything, have compassion on us."。
And then Jesus almost takes offense. "If you can!" There's an exclamation mark there in chapter nine, verse 23.。
"If you can!" "Of course I can." "All things are possible for one who believes."。
"I can!" "But do you believe?" is what Jesus is saying.。
And then the father comes out with that line. "I believe. Help my unbelief."。
Jesus commands the spirit to leave and never to return.。
The boy then is left as a corpse. But then Jesus helps him up again.。
And from there, the disciples go away and they go, "Jesus, why couldn't we do it?。
Earlier, when you sent us out, we actually had the authority to do it. We could do it."。
Mark chapter six, "And he called the twelve, and they began to send them out two by two,。
and gave them authority over the unclean spirits. They could do it before.。
Jesus, why couldn't we do it anymore?" And that's when he says,。
"This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer."。
I want to go through all of these points today, but really, as I'm talking about how it is that。
when we believe, it is only then do we see. I want to really ask us,。
and I've been asking myself this, what kind of faith do I have?。
What kind of faith do we have? As I've retold this story very, very quickly,。
and please, as I've asked you to open the Bible, go back into these passages and look。
and see the narrative that is going, see what Jesus has been doing.。
And I've introduced you to the Pharisees, to the disciples, and finally to this father.。
What kind of faith do we have? As we look at these characters, as we look at these people,。
these real-life people having gone through these things, ask ourselves the question,。
which one of these people do we relate to the most? Do we have the faith of the Pharisees,。
the disciples, or the father? What is our faith really like?。
Are we actually, even though we say we believe in God, that we're still actually with our arms crossed。
saying, "I need to see it to believe it." Or actually, do we have a really genuine faith。
within our hearts where we go, "Actually, Jesus, we believe. Help our unbelief."。
And so I want to pose these three different people to you and see which one of those you think you are the most.。
So the first one is the Pharisees, the Pharisees. And that's where I just mentioned in chapter 8,。
verse 11, "These Pharisees come and they begin to argue with him, and they seek from him a sign from heaven to test him."。
And Jesus, he says, verse 12, "And he sighs deeply in his spirit."。
He's sad. His heart is broken, but they're still in this state. He's saying, "Why don't you get it?。
Why are you still looking for signs? I want a change of heart."。
You see, because what Jesus knew is a closed heart leads to closed eyes.。
That unless their hearts were open, nothing that they would see would convince them.。
But he wanted them to see that they had a problem of the heart.。
They had already decided not to believe. Do you know people like that?。
Maybe if you're talking to them about the faith, or maybe you were like that yourself,。
or maybe even right now, there's still an element of that.。
But you know what? I'm not going to believe.。
I'm not going to commit my life to Jesus unless I see something really just supernatural,。
something that I can't explain, a miracle.。
But you see, Jesus refused to give those things because he knew that actually faith starts with a leap.。
It starts from the heart with a leap.。
And it reminds us of this almost paradox of faith, that unless we recognize that God is present and acting in Jesus,。
no testimony will persuade us. It's all about the heart.。
We can do everything we can, but ultimately, faith is still this mysterious gift that comes from responding to God's word.。
This one campaign, what do we remember? Faith comes by seeing?。
No, it was in partnership with an organization called Faith Comes by Hearing, Romans chapter 10.。
Faith comes from us responding and hearing and responding to God's word.。
And it's about the heart.。
We don't simply see and then believe. That's not how it works.。
So I don't know where you're at in your faith right now, whether you are really just waiting for God to show you something.。
Show me something impressive. Show me something cool.。
Show me something that's out of my control. And maybe then I will believe you.。
Are you waiting for proof? Are you waiting to see him?。
Because if you are, then this story, the scripture tells us that actually you'll be waiting for a long time because it's about the heart.。
You have to make that first step.。
We see, we say we believe, but we actually sometimes don't want to see God work.。
We don't want to see him in his full power because it would threaten to completely turn our lives upside down.。
So we keep him at a distance and then we wonder why we don't feel his presence.。
See, do we actually still like to be in control?。
Are we actually frightened to open our hearts?。
Because we know that if we opened our hearts, it wouldn't be in our control anymore.。
Do we only like the idea of a God that we can control?。
You see, a closed heart leads to closed eyes.。
And I'm wondering whether for myself or any of us here that our faith is one that is still close.。
It is still hard. We are still waiting to be impressed.。
We are still waiting for this vending machine God to churn out the things that we want him to give us.。
I was reminded when I was learning how to drive in the UK.。
I'm sure it's the same here as well.。
As you're sitting in the steering wheel driving, you would then have the instructor who would have his own brakes.。
And there would be some cars where actually you could have the actual instructor would have a steering wheel just in case you go crazy and then they can save your life.。
And I wonder whether we have that sometimes where we say, Jesus, take the steering wheel.。
I believe in you. I trust you.。
But actually, we are still very much holding on to the steering wheel ourselves.。
We actually don't really trust him.。
We actually don't really want him to be driving and taking control.。
But yet that's what that's what God is asking us to do.。
We have to open our hearts to him.。
Another example, one of my favorite toys growing up was a, I love driving, was a literally a fake steering wheel toy that I could sit at the back of the car and the passenger seat in the back.。
It would kind of like suction to the window and I'd pretend I'd be driving.。
And I wonder, I wonder how many of us have truly surrendered the steering wheel to God.。
Like truly, truly opened our hearts to him.。
Because I think only when we truly open our hearts to him, do we then actually get to see him.。
But if we don't open our hearts, then we actually don't get to see him clearly.。
How is your faith? What kind of faith do you have?。
Is it similar to the ones of the Pharisees?。
If it is, I encourage you, let go.。
Let go.。
You will only see if you believe.。
It is your believing that starts you on this journey to eventually see God.。
Number two, the disciples.。
Or do you have a faith of disciples?。
Have we seen and experienced God, but actually forgotten and have hardened our hearts still?。
Do we have a faithless faith?。
Jesus asks the disciples, do you not yet perceive or understand?。
Are your hearts hardened, having eyes?。
Do you not see and having ears?。
Do you not hear?。
And do you not remember?。
It wasn't that long ago.。
Do you not remember?。
Forgetfulness is a key.。
I'm just going to exit the screen so you can see me more clearly.。
Do we have the faith of the disciples where actually God has been working in our lives, but we keep forgetting?。
A faithless faith is no faith at all.。
That's something that God has been just convicting me about, asking, James, do you really have faith in me?。
Like, really, really?。
Are you truly letting me drive this car?。
Or are you actually still holding on?。
Do we have a faithless faith?。
Are our hearts hardened and preventing us to see what God is actually doing?。
The disciples, they had seen so much.。
And this thing about the bread, whether it's the 5,000 or the 4,000 or then going on a boat and forgetting, they couldn't seem to get it into their minds that Jesus was able to provide for them.。
You see, they have the right factual answers.。
When Jesus asked them, hey, how many baskets were left?。
12.。
How many baskets were left this time?。
Seven.。
They knew the right answers, but they hadn't let it seep into their hearts.。
They didn't really truly understand what was happening.。
And Jesus posed them this question, do you not yet understand?。
And then he leaves.。
He leaves it.。
He doesn't explain it to them.。
You see, when it comes to faith, it's something that you have to come to terms with yourself.。
Not only does Jesus leave them with that question, but the writer Mark leaves us there as well.。
Do you not yet understand?。
You see, faith is something that we have to come to terms with ourselves, that we have to figure out, and that we have to be the ones to take that leap.。
Have our hearts become hardened?。
Have we missed God working in our lives and forgotten?。
And we can become numb to it.。
And in fact, that was what Jesus was trying to say, hey, beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and the Herod.。
Beware of the things that make your heart numb.。
Beware of the things that make you deaf to God.。
Because those things, once you've, if you let those things into your life, and what are those things?。
What are the things that make us numb and deaf to the gospel?。
Media, public opinion, ideologies that are popular in this day and age.。
Anything in this world makes us become numb to the gospel.。
And then we end up with a faithless faith.。
And that's not something that we want.。
The key here is forgetfulness.。
Jesus says, do you not remember what I've been doing?。
And these disciples, they kept seeing things over and over again, yet they still, they would forget.。
They would not understand.。
And it reminded me, actually, there was a time when, maybe this is nearly three years ago now,。
when we first had the conversation about potentially God bringing us to Hong Kong.。
I remember sitting in this pub.。
I'm sure I've told this story to some people already.。
There's a pub chain in the UK called Weatherspoons.。
And I used to go to, John's nodding.。
John has been to Weatherspoons many, many times, probably more than he went to church.。
And I used to love preparing my sermons there on a morning.。
I used to sit Tuesday morning with the other very sorry and sad people who were in the pub at that time of the day.。
And I'd be preparing sermons there.。
And whilst I was preparing the sermon, I was just, my head was just all over the place because I was wondering, God, seriously, Hong Kong?。
Like, that's crazy.。
That doesn't make sense.。
What am I going to do there?。
What's it going to look like?。
It's going to be, I'm just worried and I'm scared.。
And I remember this song came on.。
And this song came on in my headphones.。
And it's a song called "You're Not Finished Yet."。
And I want to read the lyrics to you because the lyrics were really what got me in that morning, that Tuesday morning in Weatherspoons.。
God broke me.。
God broke me.。
And I was just in tears.。
I was familiar with people crying.。
But I was just sitting and I was just bawling.。
And these were the lyrics that I was listening to.。
I won't forget the things you've done.。
For I know that this is just the beginning.。
And you're not finished yet.。
Until I see your promise come, God, with all I am, I'll keep believing that you're not finished yet.。
I've only known you to keep your word.。
I've only found love at every turn.。
I can trust you here.。
You're not finished yet.。
And you know, those words, "I've only known you to keep your word.。
I've only found love at every turn."。
For me, those were the words that broke me.。
Because God, I'm asking God all these questions.。
What are we going to do?。
I guess it sounds just as stupid as the disciples.。
Where are we going to get the bread from?。
Even though I've just seen you doing so many miracles with bread.。
But I guess maybe looking back now, those questions that I had, "Oh, where are we going to live?。
Where are our kids going to go to school?。
How are our lives going to be like?"。
God's saying, "James, I've shown you time and time again I will keep my word, that I'm faithful, that I'm good,。
that I will provide for you.。
There is no calling that I'm going to call you to without providing for you.。
I've only known you to keep your word.。
I've only found love at every turn."。
And I was just like, my heart was just repenting at that moment, just going, "God, why do I keep forgetting?。
Why do I keep forgetting that you are good, that you provide?。
Why do I have such a faithless faith?"。
Now, this faithless faith is toxic because we think we're believing, but we're actually, we're not surrendering anything.。
And we just keep living our lives.。
And then we wonder why God's not really in our life.。
And we wonder why we don't see God doing amazing things, but we haven't let him.。
And we're wondering why we're not going to amazing places, but we keep holding the steering wheel.。
And we don't know how to get there ourselves.。
The key here is, do we have that kind of faith?。
Do we have that kind of faith that the disciples had?。
Are we always forgetting?。
And I pray, I pray for me, I pray for you over the screen, that God would continually soften your heart,。
that God would remind you of all the things he's done.。
And I don't know in your life right now, whether you're at a crossroad, whether you're waiting for something to happen,。
whether you're waiting for God to come through somehow or show you the way, show you the next step, whatever it is,。
God's got you.。
The fact that you're sat here is a testament to the fact that God's got you.。
Now, you may not have your situation under control, but reminding yourself that God is under control.。
Have that kind of faith.。
Don't be like the disciples.。
And the final person that I wanted to focus on is the father.。
The father.。
The father who comes to God completely out of ideas, having struggled with this for probably years with his kid.。
And then he goes, God, if you can do anything, have compassion on us and just help us, please.。
Your disciples can do it.。
Just help us, please, if you can.。
And then Jesus says, if I can, anything is possible.。
And the father says, Lord, I believe.。
Help my unbelief.。
I believe in a God who is bigger than our unbelief.。
You see, this son who couldn't be healed by the disciples because they weren't fully connected with Jesus, and I'll talk more about that in a little bit.。
But then the father recognizes that his faith is flawed.。
And this is the comfort.。
This is the encouragement for all of us, that we don't need to have 100% pure faith for God to act.。
And that's showing us here that there is room for doubt.。
Lord, I believe.。
Help my unbelief.。
It's riddled with doubt.。
Doubt and faith are often mixed together.。
And that is okay.。
I don't know where you are at right now in your faith.。
But the first step, as this father shows us, is just taking that to the Lord and saying, I believe.。
I really want to believe.。
But I still am filled with so much doubt.。
And I think that perfect faith is enough because we're not the ones that have to be perfect.。
We have faith in the one who is perfect.。
So I want to encourage you.。
Say what that father says to God.。
Say it maybe even every day.。
Lord, I believe.。
Help my unbelief.。
I give this day to you.。
I don't know where you're going to come through.。
I don't even know if you will.。
But I'm going to -- I want to show you this is where my heart is.。
This is where my heart is.。
It's that moment of surrender.。
I remember coming back that morning and I had in the pub where I was finally getting to that place of surrender.。
I still didn't know what was going to happen.。
I still didn't know the different steps that were going to take place in order for us to get to Hong Kong and all the things that were going to happen.。
I still didn't know any of those things.。
I didn't even know the nature of the challenge that was ahead.。
Yet at that moment I was reminded of the nature of God.。
I didn't know the nature of the challenge that was ahead when I came here.。
Yet at that moment I was reminded of the nature of God.。
And that was enough.。
And that was where I was able to say, you know what, God, I really don't know.。
I really don't know.。
And I still have doubt in my will of this.。
And I left that pub still wondering what are we going to do?。
How is it going to work?。
But I now was reminded that this God is bigger than my unbelief.。
That I had seen him come through time and time again.。
And that he wasn't going to fail me now.。
It's saying, I believe, help my unbelief.。
Jesus doesn't demand absolute faith, brothers and sisters.。
He didn't demand it from the father, from the boy, or even from Jairus.。
Jesus says, just come to me and say, I believe, help my unbelief.。
The father is saying here, help me just as I am.。
Flaws and all. I am a doubter.。
Yet I choose to put my faith in you.。
My flawed faith. My broken faith.。
My unbelieving faith in you.。
And his very coming to Jesus was enough.。
And that is what Jesus asks of us.。
And Jesus here is saying, the way you're going to see me is to have faith.。
And I don't know if you guys have been at a place where you really want to see Jesus.。
And so I believe the message for us today is Jesus is saying to us, if you want to see me,。
you first have to have faith in me.。
You have to believe in me.。
And you don't obtain or achieve this faith.。
It's not something that you can actually work for.。
It starts with you opening up your hands and just saying, I believe, help my unbelief.。
It starts from a place of surrender of the heart.。
Of truly letting go.。
Jesus says that if your heart isn't right, if it's like the Pharisees,。
even if you see someone rise from the dead, you still wouldn't believe.。
Because your faith starts from your heart and not your eyes.。
It starts from your heart.。
But if you open your heart, then you will see the empty tomb.。
Then you will start seeing the beauty of nature.。
You will start seeing the beauty in people.。
And you'll start seeing the living God in the form of Jesus.。
And you'll recognize that it's because of him that you live.。
And you'll see that you can still have doubt.。
But just like this father, you can declare, I believe, Lord, help my unbelief.。
And God does an amazing thing.。
I'll tell you what he does.。
He comes and meets you where you're at.。
In the form of Jesus.。
And he will show you, he will show you that he is good.。
That he will come through for you at every turn.。
And all you'll see is love.。
You know, my question really to all of us is,。
What is there in our lives where we've come to the end of ourselves?。
We can't fix these problems.。
We've recognized finally that we are out of control.。
We've exhausted every avenue.。
Stuff that maybe we could do before, but now we're just finding so much harder.。
We know our limits.。
Jesus is telling us, hey, stay connected to me.。
That's what he's saying to the disciples.。
Because the disciples are shocked.。
They could cast out demons before, but now they couldn't.。
And they're asking, Jesus, what's so special about this song?。
He's saying, this kind can only be carried out by prayer.。
What does that mean?。
That means this kind can only be carried out when you are fully connected to me.。
As soon as you think you can do this on your own, then you won't be able to do it.。
Prayer is us coming before Jesus and saying, I just want to be with you.。
I just want to speak to you.。
I just want to be connected to you.。
I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.。
So my question to all of us is, as we go about our days, as we go about our lives,。
how reliant upon Jesus are we really?。
How much faith are we putting in ourselves?。
And how much faith are we putting in him?。
And if we're putting a lot of faith in ourselves, then there's no wonder why we're failing.。
There's no wonder why we're always so anxious.。
But if we put our faith in Jesus, then that is different.。
So the call for us is to let go of that steering wheel, saying that I don't got this,。
but God's got this.。
Got Jesus saying to us, let go, let me.。
And I have a final question, and this is something that I only really added on this afternoon,。
is someone in our congregation has really been struggling.。
And actually last night I was just in a place where I was just like, we're just praying,。
and we're believing that God, you will do something, that you will heal,。
that you will bring relief and comfort and health to this dear brother and this family.。
And it's not happening yet.。
And I'm looking at this story, and I'm seeing, wow, Jesus says, hey,。
all things are possible for one who believes.。
And there still comes a time where we say we believe.。
We say that we have our doubts, but yet Jesus still doesn't come through.。
What if we're trying to believe, but we're still not seeing any results?。
I don't know whether you're at that point, whether there's something in your life that you have.。
But you know what, James, I do believe, and I do doubt, and I take all that before God,。
and I keep praying, but somehow it's still not happening.。
I'm not seeing the results that I'm really praying for.。
I'm not really seeing God come through in this situation yet.。
We're not seeing any healings or miracles.。
This boy was healed from epilepsy and freed from the demon, but why isn't God answering my prayer?。
Why isn't God answering the deepest cries of my heart yet?。
The truth is I don't know the answer to that one.。
I don't know why God chooses to heal some and not others.。
Only he knows.。
That's why he's God.。
But what I do know is that in all things, God works for the good of those who love him.。
And our faith in him isn't in him doing something for us.。
Our faith is in the fact that he's already done it.。
Our faith isn't in him trying to-- in him doing something for us now,。
but our faith is in the fact that he has already done it.。
Our faith is in the resurrection, that he really did come, that he really did die,。
and that he really did rise again.。
And because he rose again, that gives us faith that there is something beyond the grave,。
that this earthly death, this earthly pain isn't all there is.。
In fact, even when we have faith and belief, we will still face death.。
We will still face pain.。
We will still face sickness.。
But our faith isn't in deliverance from those things, but in something bigger, in something more.。
We believe that what happened 2,000 years ago really did happen,。
and we believe in the promise that he will return again,。
and that there one day will be a place that we will see where there are no more tears,。
no more death, and no more pain.。
Believing is seeing.。
We believe in what Jesus accomplished on the cross,。
and it is that belief that allows us to one day see him again.。
You see, the true point of why we're believing isn't for God to show up in our lives right now.。
It's for us to be able to see him again.。
So, brothers and sisters, as you choose to have faith,。
cast your eyes even further than just God delivering you from whatever circumstances you have here.。
The reason you have faith, the reason you believe is not to see miracles, but it's to see Jesus,。
and our faith is that one day we will see him again in his rightful place, in all his glory,。
that is what we have faith in,。
and that gives us the strength to face the light momentary afflictions of this world,。
because they are nothing when compared to the eternal weight of glory that awaits us.。
Our belief will ultimately allow us to see God himself,。
and that is a faith worth holding on to.。
Can I pray for us all?。
(Praying)。
Jesus, you seem to have gotten frustrated at the Pharisees and the disciples when they lose faith in you,。
and I can only imagine how frustrating it is for you to look at us and look at us go about our lives and our worries,。
when time and time again you have come through for us, yet we forget, yet our hearts are hard,。
yet we simply just choose to put faith in ourselves, and then we fail, and then we wonder why things look so gloomy,。
and we repent of that, Jesus, and we don't want to faith like the Pharisees,。
but we're also reminded actually, the disciples, they weren't in a great place then,。
but they soon saw, and they soon believed, and they ended up transforming the world,。
and that you used broken faith, you used doubting faith,。
to end up transforming the world and ushering your kingdom into this world.。
So Lord, come to us, meet us where we are at, and I pray for every person on this Zoom call who's watching over YouTube,。
that you know the deepest fears of our hearts, you know where our faith is, you know whether we trust in you at all or not,。
but it's at that point we know that you come to us, and it's at that point, Lord, your Spirit can get us to that point where we can say,。
just like what that father said, "Lord, I believe, help my unbelief, I believe, help my unbelief."。
And I pray that that awareness, that confession is what spurs us on to a bigger and greater faith,。
and that confession is what ultimately allows us to see you again.。
So we thank you, Jesus, and it's in your name we pray. Amen.。
