Okay, good evening everybody.。
Hope you're doing well at home, staying safe.。
And welcome to KFCI, our recording tonight for our sermon.。
Before we begin, there's a couple of announcements.。
The first is we're collecting new face masks.。
So if you have any spare face masks at home。
that you have too much of,。
please drop them off at reception.。
And we would love to get your help。
as we wanna help the community around us.。
Also, Pastor Paul and others are organizing an outreach。
to distribute these masks.。
And if you are interested, please sign up。
and click the QR code, scan the QR code,。
and you'll have more information on that.。
And the next announcement is about giving.。
So if you're interested in giving to the church,。
there's an FPS option,。
and you can just follow the instructions。
on this slide for that.。
And lastly, we wanna continue to promote the One Campaign.。
And it's a great app that you can download,。
and you can just follow us。
as we continue to read the word of God。
and as we lead it towards Easter.。
So we're gonna pray, and we're gonna start today,。
and we're gonna continue in Ephesians.。
Heavenly Father, may you bless us tonight。
as we dig into your word, speak to us,。
fill us with your spirit.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
So we're talking about Ephesians,。
and today we're talking about adopted,。
I am adopted and loved.。
And last week, Pastor John did a great job。
of teaching us that we are new.。
We are new in Christ.。
Before we were fallen, right?。
We had a fallen nature.。
We were religious.。
We assumed that we were good enough.。
We worked very hard at social causes to help others。
to hopefully we can gain our way to become good.。
We try to change ourselves through self-help insight.。
And we also try hard at keeping rules, right?。
We're very religious.。
We're trying to be good, trying to look good,。
trying to help others to become good,。
make ourselves feel better.。
And then in Christ, so we were fallen before,。
but in Christ now we have justification for ourselves,。
for our sins.。
We are now justified, right?。
We have regeneration.。
We are made new in Christ.。
We are a new creation.。
The old has gone, the new has come.。
And everything that we do is pointing towards glorification。
and glorification, and that is to glorify God.。
And so today we're talking about being adopted and loved,。
adopted and loved.。
Throughout this book of Ephesians,。
there's this continuous theme。
that we are children of God, right?。
And we see that in Ephesians 1, verse four.。
For he chose us in him before the creation of the world。
to be holy and blameless in his sight.。
In love he predestined us for adoption to sonship。
through Jesus Christ in accordance。
with his pleasure and will.。
In love he predestined us for adoption to sonship。
through Jesus Christ in accordance。
with his pleasure and will.。
Adoption is such a beautiful thing, right?。
You have a loving couple, you know, parents, right?。
And then there are children that may have been,。
you know, orphans or whatnot in different countries.。
And it's such an amazing thing of gathering broken people,。
right, these children may have came up。
in broken families or situations,。
and they're brought into a loving family.。
Adoption is such a beautiful picture.。
But there is such a big problem of orphanism in the world.。
In 2015, there were, according to one of the stats,。
140 million orphans in the world.。
And that is, orphans, according to that stat,。
is one who has lost one parent.。
Double orphans are those who have lost both parents。
and make up 15.1 million.。
15.1 million, that's bigger than some。
of the countries in this world.。
Orphanism is a huge problem.。
Fatherlessness is also a huge problem,。
and we see this through David Blankenhorn.。
Tonight, about 40% of children in the Western world。
will go to sleep in homes in which。
their fathers do not live.。
Before they reach the age of 18,。
more than half of our nation's children。
are likely to spend at least a significant portion。
of their childhoods living apart from their fathers.。
Never before in this country have so many children。
been voluntarily abandoned by their fathers.。
Never before have so many children grown up。
without knowing what it means to have a father.。
Fatherlessness is the most harmful demographic trend。
in this generation, of this generation.。
It is the leading cause of declining child。
and adult well-being in our society.。
It is also the engine driving。
the most urgent social problems.。
If this trend continues, fatherlessness is likely。
to change the shape of our society.。
Orphans.。
Fatherlessness is one of the biggest problems。
in our modern day society.。
And it was also a problem back then.。
In fact, back then, in biblical times,。
only 50% of the children that were born。
grew up to 50 years old or more.。
And inficide was also a very big problem,。
especially for those who were disabled and girls.。
Inficide was a big problem.。
However, Christians at that time started to adopt kids.。
They started to adopt kids,。
not to build up their family status。
or to continue their family line,。
but they wanted to adopt children。
because they realized that they too were adopted.。
And Paul speaks about this in Ephesians。
and the rest of his letters about adoption.。
And we're gonna learn three things about adoption today,。
that in adoption, we have a new family,。
we have a new identity, and we have a new inheritance.。
And the first thing we learn。
is that we have a new family, right?。
Adoption is a legal thing.。
It's a legal thing.。
There's a change in name.。
And it was initiated by the father,。
purchased through Jesus Christ.。
And we see this in Galatians 4, verse four to five,。
that when the set time had fully come,。
God sent his son, born of a woman,。
born under the law to redeem those under the law,。
that we might receive adoption to sonship.。
God initiated it, right?。
He sent his son.。
He sent his son to do what?。
To redeem us, to redeem those under the law.。
Under the law, we deserve punishment.。
But through Jesus Christ,。
we have received adoption to sonship.。
And so we have a new family.。
This new family was initiated through the father.。
It comes through Jesus Christ.。
And now we have new brothers and sisters in Christ as well.。
We have a new family.。
In adoption, we also have a new identity.。
Before, we were rejected, right?。
We were sinners.。
We were split apart from the Lord.。
But now we are reborn.。
We are redeemed, and we are remade children in Christ.。
Before, in Romans, it talks about we were slaves to sin.。
But now we are free to be servants of righteousness.。
And in John 1, it says this,。
yet to all who receive him,。
to those who believed in his name,。
he gave the right to become children of God,。
children not born of natural descent,。
nor of human decision or husband's will,。
but born of God.。
If you have confessed Jesus to be the Lord and Savior。
and believed in his name,。
he has made you a child of God,。
a child of God.。
So we have a new family.。
We have a new identity.。
We're no longer just ourselves, our old selves,。
but we are our new selves, which is in Christ.。
We are Christians, followers of Christ,。
children of Christ.。
We have a new identity.。
And lastly, we have a new inheritance.。
And it says this in Romans chapter eight.。
For those who are led by the Spirit of God。
are the children of God.。
The Spirit you received does not make you slaves。
so that you live in fear again.。
Rather, the Spirit received brought about your adoption。
to sonship, and by him we cry, "Ava, Father."。
The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit。
that we are God's children.。
Now, if we are children, then we are heirs,。
heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ.。
If indeed we share in his suffering,。
in order that we may also share in his glory.。
If we are children, it says here, we are also heirs,。
heirs with God and co-heirs with Christ.。
Isn't it amazing that we share in the inheritance。
with Christ?。
One day we'll share in this resurrected form,。
resurrected body, the new heaven and the new earth,。
all that time that we'll spend in heaven.。
Those are the things that we'll inherit with Christ,。
this new heaven and new earth.。
And so the thing is, if we are children of God,。
if we are adopted into his family,。
and we have a new identity,。
we have a new family, a new identity,。
and we have a new inheritance,。
the question is, are we acting like sons。
and daughters of God?。
Are we acting like sons and daughters?。
Being adopted children of God means transformation。
in our behavior, obeying our father,。
and living a life imitating Jesus.。
And that is why Paul in chapter five of Ephesians says,。
therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children.。
He tells us, be imitators, right?。
You're loved, you're children of God, so imitate God.。
Walk in his love, right, as Christ loved us。
and gave himself up for us.。
He also instructs us how to become sons and daughters。
in verse 15 to 17.。
Look carefully how you walk, not as unwise,。
but as wise, making the best use of time.。
As sons and daughters, we're to imitate God.。
We're to walk in his love.。
We're to make the best use of our time, to be wise.。
He tells us also in verse 18,。
and do not get drunk with wine, which leads to debauchery.。
Be filled with the Spirit.。
Adopted sons and daughters are filled with the Spirit.。
Continuously filled with the Spirit.。
Sons and daughters of God are imitators of God。
who walk in his love.。
Now, the last couple weeks,。
we've been talking about Asian culture, right?。
And Pastor James did a really great talk。
on Chinese New Year about the differences。
between the Western and the Eastern societies.。
You know, in Western society, they tell you,。
"Oh, I love you," right?。
"As a child, I love you."。
And in Eastern society, right,。
they give you an education, they give you food on the table,。
they give you those kind of things.。
And the problem with that is sometimes。
we get into this habit of trying to gain,。
trying to gain respect,。
trying to continuously gain that favor, right?。
And I myself am like that.。
I'm a doer.。
And sometimes I get caught up in this thinking。
that the more I do, the more God will be pleased with me,。
the more my dad will be pleased with me,。
the more things I do, the more good I am, right?。
And John sort of talked about that last week, right?。
That our fallen nature, we're trying to be good,。
we're trying to live up to the social standards,。
we're trying to do this and that。
to make ourselves look good.。
And the thing is, if we're adopted children,。
and we know that we are adopted children,。
we should be secure in our identity in Christ.。
That we are adopted.。
We are children of God.。
We don't need to go out there to gain our salvation,。
to gain God's favor.。
God already loves us.。
No matter how much more we do,。
God, it will not change how God loves us。
or what he thinks about us.。
And that's the thing, it's faith versus works.。
Faith versus works.。
We need to believe that we are children of God.。
Adopted children of God.。
So, so that we're not just going out there。
trying to gain our salvation.。
We're not serving in church just to be good enough。
so that God will help us.。
No, that's what's different about Christianity.。
In all religions of the world,。
we have to depend on ourselves to do something。
so that the supreme being will be pleased。
so that we can gain ourselves into heaven.。
Only in Christianity has Christ already paid for everything.。
And that now we have a new identity.。
And so we're not trying to do things。
to become sons and daughters of God.。
We already are sons and daughters of God.。
And so we don't come to worship here。
because, oh, I need to have good favor with God。
so that he'll love me and hopefully send me to heaven.。
No, we are children of God.。
We are worshipers.。
That's what we do.。
There's a change of mindset.。
And so instead of going out there and helping people。
because, oh, I need to gain favor and gain favor with God。
and hopefully he'll love me.。
No, we go out there。
because we're adopted sons and daughters.。
That's what we do.。
We imitate God.。
God goes out to help.。
And so that's what we do.。
We're sons and daughters.。
We are worshipers.。
We are servants.。
Right?。
We're not going out there。
just to gain favor of God and men.。
But we go out there。
because we're servants and worshipers and imitators of God.。
One of the best examples I've seen of this is Jeremy Lynn.。
Now he won his first championship with the Toronto Raptors,。
and I'm very proud to say.。
And do you know how much time he spent playing。
during the NBA finals?。
Not more than a minute, right?。
Something like that.。
Around, he played a minute,。
and yet he was considered a championship.。
And he was questioning himself.。
He was like, "Am I really a champion?"。
Right?。
Like, I've only played like a minute or whatever。
of garbage time in the NBA finals.。
And the NBA is such a place。
that looks at your stats, your performance.。
'Cause your performance is everything.。
Right?。
If you're performing, then you get playing time,。
and you get playing time, then you get that contract,。
and then you get the recognition.。
But Jeremy Lynn says this,。
"Even though I only played a million and a half。
"or whatever he played,。
"I'm still a champion.。
"'Cause I practiced with the team.。
"I worked hard with the team.。
"I was there all the time with the team.。
"I was a part of the team."。
And it's such a great picture of God's grace, I think.。
That, you know, we...。
God's grace is that we actually didn't really do much,。
but yet God did everything to save us。
and adopt us into his family,。
and that we are champions because of what he has done.。
What he has done.。
And Jeremy Lynn does a really good job。
of going into his profession,。
believing that he is first a son and a daughter.。
A son, not a daughter.。
(laughs)。
Only a son.。
He does a great job of that,。
'cause it's so easy to just get caught up。
in your performance, look at your own stats,。
look how much playing time you have,。
and be so discouraged.。
And that off-season after he won the NBA championship,。
he said it's like the NBA has given up on him,。
and he had to go over to China to play.。
And so, are we acting as sons and daughters?。
Do you believe that you are a son and a daughter of God?。
'Cause if you do, you're gonna be different.。
You're gonna act differently.。
You're no longer slaves to sin,。
but you're now free to follow Jesus,。
imitate Jesus, to walk in his love.。
To live as wise.。
Are you acting like adopted sons and daughters?。
The second thing we're gonna look at is I am loved.。
I am loved.。
Now, everybody wants to be loved, right?。
Who doesn't wanna be loved?。
Everybody wants to be loved.。
And there's this great picture here。
of this girl, and she's trying to catch love, right?。
Trying to catch love.。
And there's all these sorts of people in our society, right?。
You know them.。
Sometimes we are them.。
We're just trying to get love, right?。
And sometimes we go from relationship to relationship,。
or friendship to friendship.。
We're just trying to feel loved.。
Get that intimacy.。
Or people just like let people run over them, right?。
Because they wanna be loved by people,。
and so they just do whatever people tell them to do。
so that they feel loved.。
And the problem with that is we're trying to fill our heart。
with love, with things that will never。
really truly satisfy.。
And Pascal says this, "There is a God-shaped vacuum。
"in every heart."。
There's a God-shaped vacuum in every heart.。
Agape love, many people say, is God's love.。
It's divine, active, unconditional,。
self-sacrificing, thoughtful love.。
That is agape love.。
And we're gonna learn about Christ's love for the church。
in the rest of chapter five here.。
So read with me chapter five, verse 22.。
"Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord,。
"for the husband is the head of the wife,。
"even as Christ is the head of the church,。
"his body of the church, his body,。
"and is himself its savior.。
"Now as the church submits to Christ,。
"so also wives should submit in everything。
"to their husbands.。
"Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church。
"and gave himself up for her,。
"that he might sanctify her,。
"having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,。
"so that he might present the church to himself in splendor,。
"without spot or wrinkle or any such thing,。
"that she might be holy and without blemish.。
"In the same way, husbands should love their wives。
"as their own bodies.。
"He who loves his wife loves himself,。
"for no one ever hated his own flesh,。
"but nourishes and cherishes it,。
"just as Christ does the church,。
"because we are members of his body.。
"Therefore, a man should leave his father and mother,"。
not leave his wife,。
"Therefore, a man should leave his father and mother。
"and hold fast to his wife,。
"and the two shall become one flesh.。
"This mystery is profound,。
"and I am saying this,。
"that it refers to Christ and the church.。
"However, let each one of you love his wife as himself,。
"and let his wife see that she respects her husband."。
Right here in chapter five,。
we get a great imagery of what it means。
that Christ loves the church,。
and how a husband should love his wife.。
And here are five ways that Jesus loved the church.。
And the first thing that we see。
is that Jesus loved the church as the head, as the head.。
It said, right,。
"For the husband is the head of the wife,。
"even as Christ is the head of the church,。
"his body, and is himself its savior."。
What Jesus did was he took responsibility,。
took responsibility as the head of the church.。
And because we are sinners,。
he took the responsibility of our sin upon himself.。
And so the second thing we see。
is that Jesus is our savior, right?。
Jesus himself gave himself up to save us。
from the problem of sin.。
And we see that in the next slide,。
that Christ is the gap, he's the bridge.。
He died on the cross once and for all,。
so that this problem of sin would no longer be there,。
so that we could be reunited with our Father.。
Christ is the giver.。
He gave himself up.。
He gave up his body for the church.。
He gave it for us.。
And next, we see that he is the sanctifier and cleanser,。
sanctifier and cleanser.。
Jesus sanctifies us with his blood.。
He washes us clean.。
All right, he's trying to make us more and more like himself。
to become more and more like the Father.。
He is also the nourisher and cherisher, right?。
Just like in verse 29, it says,。
"For no one ever hated his own flesh,。
"but nourishes and cherishes it,"。
just as Christ does the church。
because we are members of his body.。
Christ cherishes the church and nourishes the church.。
These are the five ways that Christ loves the church.。
He's seeking for us to become more and more holy, right?。
He's nourishing us, sanctifying us,。
changing us so that we become more and more like him.。
So we repent of our sins.。
We stop following the ways of our flesh,。
but now we are free to follow,。
follow Jesus.。
And so how Christ loves the church is the same way。
how Paul says that husbands should love their wives.。
Husbands should love their wives as Jesus loved the church.。
Husbands should cherish their wives,。
love their wives,。
and wives should submit to their husbands。
as the church submits to Jesus.。
Do you recognize how loved you are?。
You're so loved that God,。
you're so loved that God took responsibility。
of the punishment that you and I deserve,。
died on the cross for us, gave up his life for us.。
He loves the church so much.。
You are so loved because you are members of God's church.。
And so the question is,。
are you acting like a loved son and daughter?。
Are you acting like a loved son and daughter?。
Or are you going out in the world,。
trying to fill your heart with things。
that will never satisfy, that will never satisfy?。
If you're acting like a loved son and daughter,。
you're no longer slaves to seeking love from all directions.。
But now you know you're loved,。
and you can instead go out there。
and be free to love others as Jesus loves them.。
One of the youth, he grew up,。
he grew up with his parents。
telling him about the 10 commandments。
every night almost, and God's judgment.。
And so he has this mindset。
that he always deserves punishment,。
that God is a God of wrath, right?。
God will punish you.。
And so he grew up like that in our church.。
And it was hard for him to recognize。
that God was a loving father.。
There was this one time we went hiking actually,。
and we were sitting together.。
And he was like, "Johnny, I'm so mad at God.。
"I'm so mad at God.。
"I deserve punishment."。
And he even said, "If God wants to punish me so bad,。
"He can just strike me down right now."。
And I'm just like, "Yo, buddy, just relax, man.。
"God loves you."。
And we went through some scripture.。
Actually, before, he only read the Old Testament。
'cause he was like, "Yeah, God is a God of wrath。
"and judgment."。
And so we started looking into the New Testament。
and who Jesus actually is.。
And actually, in the Old Testament,。
it also talks about God is love, right?。
But he only chose to read those parts。
of condemnation and judgment.。
And so as we started to look more and more。
through the New Testament and the Old Testament as well,。
to get a full picture of redemption,。
God's plan of redemption.。
God softened his heart.。
And God helped him to realize。
that he's not just a punishment, wrathful God,。
that he is also a loving God.。
He's just and he's love at the same time.。
And so once he started to realize that,。
"Wow, God is love.。
"God sent Jesus 'cause he loves us so much。
"to bring us back to him."。
Then he was able to start loving others.。
Before he was also very quick to condemn and judge others.。
Right, he was like, "Oh, these people are bad.。
"They deserve to be punished."。
And he's so loving now.。
In fact, he joined one of these non-Christian groups。
and he's trying to reach them.。
He joined some non-Christian group。
and he's praying for them and getting to know them。
and really trying to share God's love with them.。
This is a story of a kid。
who didn't understand that he was loved.。
And so he couldn't go out and love others.。
That once he recognized that he was a loved son,。
he was able to go out and love others。
and share love of others, love of God to others.。
And that's what we're doing here at this church as well。
through this outreach.。
We wanna reach out to our community.。
Those who don't have masks, we wanna supply it to them.。
We wanna go out in the love of Christ.。
And that's something that we can all join in.。
We can all join in.。
And so to conclude, here are some application points.。
The first is, have you been adopted as a son and daughter?。
Have you been adopted as a son and daughter?。
Do you recognize that you are a child of God?。
If you haven't confessed Jesus to be the Lord。
and Savior of your life, you can do that.。
You can do that tonight.。
And ask Jesus into your life to be a Lord and Savior。
and to become a child of God.。
The second thing is, do you recognize the love of God?。
God loves you so much that he's willing to die for you.。
God sent him to die on the cross for our sins,。
the punishment that we deserve.。
Do you recognize how much God loves you?。
You are loved and you are adopted.。
And if you are loved and adopted,。
are you acting like adopted, loved sons and daughters of God?。
You know, we're in a society right now with so much fear,。
fear of this virus that is going on.。
But God did not give us a spirit of fear,。
he gave us a spirit of power, of love.。
Can we go out there and be his love?。
Share the hope of Jesus Christ.。
People need the message of hope。
of the love of Jesus Christ more than ever.。
In a time of fear, in time of hopelessness,。
can we be his light?。
Go out and shine forth, be a city on the hill.。
And the fourth thing is, are we reaching out。
with the love of God?。
Are we reaching out with the love of God?。
How did Jesus reach out?。
He touched the leper.。
He spent time with the tax collectors.。
He had compassion upon those who are poor.。
Can we go out with the love of Christ?。
Because we know we are loved ourselves.。
We're not out there to try and gain God's favor。
and gain, you know, make ourselves feel good.。
No, we are already loved.。
We are already loved children of God.。
Can we go out there and be the hands and feet of Jesus?。
And I encourage you to join this outreach.。
Pray for the people in our city。
that God would heal our city and help us.。
So let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you。
that through your word you remind us。
that we are adopted and that we are loved.。
Help us to go out as your adopted sons and daughters。
to shine forth your light and your love。
to our city and to the rest of the world.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
