Thank you.。
And hi, Bonnie.。
Thank you very much for that reading.。
And please excuse me, I'm getting used to new technology here, which doesn't seem to be working very well.。
I seem to have black eyes at the moment.。
But we'll move around.。
As you may have gathered from Bonnie's reading, tonight I will examine Jesus' statement, "I am the door."。
More often than not, people are entryways to a new direction and a quality of life.。
In a way, they are doors in the next stage of your journey.。
One of those in my own life was our own senior pastor, Pastor Peter.。
I met Pastor Peter on a number of occasions over a number of years.。
And then one day, it was the 10th of May, 2016, he invited me for breakfast.。
We went to the Four Seasons restaurant, the Japanese restaurant in the building, the Far East Finance Center.。
I was sort of semi-retired at the time.。
I was working on my doctorate and a number of other projects.。
Pastor Peter told me over bacon and coffee that KFC were considering starting an English service at some time in the near future,。
as a means of retaining the church's youth and young people.。
I remember saying something to Pastor Peter like this, "Pastor Peter, it's not about language.。
It's about culture."。
And to cut a long story short, Pastor Peter asked me to explain what I meant,。
firstly to him, then to the deacons, and then with Sandra, to a wider pastoral team.。
Then one day, Hank took me out for a coffee.。
I remember it was Pacific coffee in the Vine Center.。
And Hank said to me these words, "We want to hire you."。
Yeah, I was flabbergasted.。
When I recovered, I gave him at least half a dozen reasons why this wasn't a good idea.。
But somehow he pretended he was deaf to them all.。
And a door was opened for me to become part of God's work, what God was doing at this church.。
And almost six years later, God is still opening doors.。
It leads me to some questions.。
Have you ever had experience with someone who invited you, as Pastor Peter and the team did to me,。
into a new season of life and opportunity?。
It could have been a teacher who invited you into a special project at school.。
It could have been a parent, a relative, a friend who gave you that musical instrument。
and encouraged you to take music lessons.。
It could have been a coach who saw something in you and invited you into a team or a program to see you grow as an athlete.。
Or perhaps it was a supervisor who recommended you for a promotion or a raise.。
Perhaps it was the leader who saw something in you and opened up a doorway of opportunity for you to lead.。
But I just have to say, the doorway isn't necessarily positive.。
It might be the person who invited us or introduced us to a toxic relationship.。
They invited us for the first time to take that drug which we became enslaved to.。
They were an entryway to something that we knew wasn't good for us,。
but their invitation made it easy and enticing to pass through that doorway.。
Or what about the friend who persuaded you that that get-rich-quick scheme was a better way of you becoming financially stable。
than 40 years of working 9 to 6, or should I say 9 to 9 in Hong Kong, in an office?。
And since then, you have regarded a long-term investment as anything you've had to hold for more than a week.。
We could come up with dozens of examples of people who saw something in us or removed an obstacle for us to enter into a new season of growth in our lives.。
Effectively, they were a door for us.。
Sandra and I – Sandra's sitting with me here – Sandra and I came to Hong Kong on a three-year contract.。
A three-year contract in 1987.。
We had reasoned that three years out of a lifetime wasn't very much.。
Thirty-five years later and we're still here.。
But I want to come back to a time in 1990 when our three-year contract was due to expire.。
We had a deep sense, a conviction that we were not to return to the UK.。
Indeed, on the 10th of March 1990, at 3.40pm, off Deepwater Bay, a visiting preacher, his name was Dr. R.T. Kendall,。
had seen this in us and prayed while we were on our company junk that God would make a way for us to stay in Hong Kong.。
Fast forward to June and my boss at the time, Terry Jenkins, not a believer, called me in and he said these words,。
"Have you ever thought about staying in Hong Kong?" I nearly fell off my chair.。
I admitted I had.。
And within 72 hours, I had been appointed as the company's new general manager for marketing.。
Another significant door had opened, one that allowed me and my family to stay in Hong Kong.。
If I had time, I could tell you about others, how a door opened for an insurance man to become an international church's first full-time senior pastor.。
And just recently, how God opened the door for this one campaign to go firstly citywide and then global.。
So we're going to talk a lot about doors today.。
But doors in a very specific context. Jesus is going to set up the conversation for us.。
Now, a word of warning. There's going to be a lot of talk about sheep and shepherds, sheep pens and watchmen, etc.。
In Hong Kong, we are not used to having a sheep pen in our apartment blocks or home grounds.。
Maybe Paul does in my wall. I don't know.。
But for those of us who don't, let's sit back and let's back up so we know what we are talking about here.。
Let me give you some background. In John, chapter nine, Jesus heals a man born blind.。
Remember, that's important. And he's having a conversation about who he is.。
And the spiritual blindness of the Pharisees. This miraculous sign is pointing to his own authority as the Messiah that the Old Testament prophecies were pointing to.。
The Old Testament said that Messiah could perform certain certain miracles.。
Only the Messiah could perform this. We had an example a few weeks ago with Michelle.。
She talked about Lazarus, who was raised. He'd been dead for four days.。
Healing someone who had been born blind was one such miracle.。
And in his next breath, in John, chapter 10, Jesus pivots and brings in another metaphor, an important metaphor, the metaphor of shepherd.。
A very common image in the Old Testament is God as shepherd of the sheep of Israel.。
And many Hebrew leaders had seasons as shepherds. Look all the way back to Genesis.。
Abel, Abraham, Lot, Isaac, Jacob, David, Moses and Jacob pointed to God as Israel's ultimate good shepherd.。
So God as shepherd and Israel as sheep was a very well understood metaphor.。
This would have been second nature for the Pharisees to whom Jesus was speaking.。
That brings us to our text for today, which Bonnie read to us in John, chapter 10, 1 to 5.。
Jesus sets up the scene.。
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in another way.。
That man. Is a thief or a robber.。
But he who enters the door. By the door is the shepherd of the sheep.。
To him, the gatekeeper opens.。
Sheep hear his voice. And he calls his own sheep by name.。
And he leads them out. When he is brought out all his own, he goes before them and the sheep follow him.。
For they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow.。
But they will flee from him. For they do not know the voice of strangers.。
Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees that we met in chapter nine.。
And he starts talking about shepherds. And sheep.。
First of all, sheep are vulnerable creatures.。
Easily injured. And to be honest, not too bright.。
Sheep pen must be entered through a door or entryway.。
I'll put a picture here for you.。
What you'll see is there is only one entry into the pen.。
Very often the shepherd. Or a hired watchman would literally sleep across the entryway into that sheep pen.。
They would physically be the door to that safe place.。
Any other entry is illegitimate.。
The gate watchman only allows the true shepherd through the door.。
Now, what happens? The flock stay in the sheep pen at night.。
The shepherd goes home and goes to bed.。
While the hired watchman guards the door.。
The pen, which usually backs up to a cliff or some rocks, has one small entryway that the watchman guards.。
The pen walls are about waist high and topped with thickets and thorns to keep predators out.。
If someone was coming into the sheep pen, other than through the doorway, they would have bad intentions.。
This is important. Sheep know their own shepherd.。
They won't follow anyone else.。
Now, since the sheep wouldn't follow anyone other than their own shepherd, they are very difficult to get out of the pen.。
So a thief would actually slit the throat of the sheep and toss it over the wall in order to steal it.。
Then Jesus introduces the main metaphor for us.。
So Jesus again said to them.。
Truly, I say to you. I am the door of the sheep.。
All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them.。
I am the door.。
If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and go in and out and find pasture.。
The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy.。
I came that they may have life and have it abundantly.。
Jesus is really talking about two separate doors.。
Jesus is the door that leads to life.。
All other doors lead to death.。
From previous chapters of John, it has been clear that the Pharisees believed that their doorway to life was the letter of the law.。
In other words, their adherence to the Old Testament code they got from Moses was their doorway to life.。
Jesus turns this on his head.。
In John, chapter five, Jesus had confronted them, saying this, you search the scriptures because you think in them you may have eternal life.。
And it is they that bear witness about me, yet you refuse to come to me.。
That you may have life.。
If they wanted the doorway to life, they needed to pass through Jesus.。
Instead, they entered another door and it only brought them condemnation.。
There was no life behind the letter of the law.。
It's not that the law was all bad.。
It is obviously a good thing to know the scriptures.。
It's a good thing to respect the law that Moses handed down.。
But they had taken a good thing and made it into an ultimate thing.。
Ultimately missing the point.。
It's like they took the door of behavior management and biblical education and they painted a big S for salvation on it.。
But it was mislabeled.。
There's the door for you.。
It was mislabeled.。
Passing through that mislabeled door only led to a dead end.。
Literally.。
And Jesus wanted to save them from it.。
So what is the modern equivalent of that for us?。
What doorways are we painting a big S on expecting that they will offer salvation to us?。
We say, oh, if only I was in a relationship with that person, then I would have the life that I want.。
Would we finally be happy?。
If I could only be better looking or more cool, I could be the most popular person in my social circles.。
If only I passed through the doorway of that promotion.。
I would have the salvation my heart desires.。
If only I might have just a little bit more money.。
Then I would have the life I dreamed of.。
We paint the big S.。
Of salvation on doorways that can never deliver.。
No amount of money, fame, status, recognition, material goods I could go on will ever bring the soul salvation.。
The feminist humorist writer Cynthia Hamel wrote in an article in 1990 in the American news and culture paper, The Village Voice, a publication known for being the USA's first alternatively news weekly.。
She had in her younger days been a waitress in an establishment that so many celebrities had frequented.。
She had interacted with them at the height of their careers.。
And this was her takeaway.。
I pity celebrities. I really do.。
Those people were once perfectly pleasant human beings.。
But now their wrath is awful.。
I think the way God wants to play a really rotten practical joke on you, he grants you your deepest wish.。
And then laughs merrily when you realize you want to kill yourself.。
You say they wanted fame.。
They worked, they pushed, and the morning after each one of them became famous, they wanted to take an overdose.。
Because that giant thing they were striving for, that fame thing that was going to make everything OK, that was going to make their lives bearable, that was going to provide them with personal fulfillment and happiness.。
And happened. And they were still them.。
They were still them. The disillusionment.。
Turn them howling and insufferable.。
According to the author, the celebrities had painted the S of salvation on the door of fame and success, only to find it ultimately disappointing.。
They were still broken. They were still small.。
They were still need in need of a savior.。
On the other hand. Jesus says.。
I am the door.。
There is no other door that will lead you to life abundant.。
Just like in the sheep, then Jesus stands in the doorway, inviting us in.。
This is the doorway to salvation.。
You may have heard the user an MTR analogy in the past. If you want to ride the MTR, you have to go through turnstile.。
Jesus could in Hong Kong in 2022 say, I am the turnstile.。
And yet. Many of us think it's too good to be true.。
He invites us in. And we think it's just too simple.。
We don't believe his grace is enough.。
That his invitation is enough.。
The truth is, there are no qualifiers.。
There is no committee. You don't have to submit your grades.。
But what we do is we try and turn it into Jesus plus.。
Jesus plus our biblical education.。
Jesus plus our church attendance.。
Jesus plus our behavior management.。
Jesus plus any number of things that we think we need to have life abundantly.。
We shift our weight of expectation away from Jesus and onto the smaller, weaker thing.。
And we wind up doing exactly what the Pharisees were doing.。
We are trying to earn God's favor when we already have it.。
Jesus has more for us.。
He came. To give us life abundantly.。
But it's not the kind of abundant life that the world gives.。
When we pass through the true door of salvation, we find abundance of life that transcends our earthly circumstances.。
There is abundant hope. There is abundant joy.。
There is abundant purpose. There is abundant meaning.。
There is abundant contentment. And there is abundant peace.。
He says this. Peace, I leave with you.。
My peace, I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you.。
Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.。
My friends. Jesus. Is the door.。
Let me say that again. Jesus. Is the door.。
Every other door is a dead end.。
And when we pass through him, we pass into abundant, eternal life.。
It's life that transcends the circumstances of this life.。
It's eternal life. And it begins now.。
Look at this. And this is the testimony that God gave us eternal life.。
And this life is in his son. Whoever has the son has life.。
And whoever does not have the son of God does not have life.。
My friends. Jesus. Invites you in.。
You don't need a password. You don't need to pay a toll.。
You don't need to clean yourself up and get your life together first.。
He invites you in just as you are.。
His grace is enough for you and for me.。
You need merely to trust him because he has already done the work.。
And he has already cleared the way.。
He wants you to give. He wants to give you.。
Life. That you have never known.。
My friends. Today.。
Is the day.。
But you. Could pass through.。
The door of salvation.。
Let me say it one more time.。
Today. I'm talking about the 19th of March, 2022.。
At about 630 in the evening.。
Today is the day that you can pass through the door of his salvation.。
And I want to challenge you right now, whether you're on zoom, whether you're on YouTube.。
I want to challenge you.。
To submit. And to give your life to Jesus.。
I see two doors in front of you.。
One has got everything the world can give you.。
Money, fame, power, you name it.。
And it's enticing.。
It's seductive.。
But the other door.。
Only Jesus can open.。
It is the door to life.。
And eternal life.。
And the bundle life.。
I took that step around 40 years ago.。
And have never for a single moment regretted that.。
Yes, I could have had all of that.。
But instead of that, I have this, which is abundant life, which is eternal life.。
And it is a totally fulfilled life.。
And you can have it right now.。
Just close your eyes.。
And repeat with me.。
Today, Jesus, I choose you.。
I choose the door to salvation.。
I know I'm a sinner.。
But Lord Jesus, I believe that you will forgive my sins.。
And as I go through that door, I will enter into a new life.。
A life that is abundant.。
And a life that will go on forever.。
Lord Jesus, I choose right now to open that door.。
And what we're going to do now, we're going to ask Florence to come back.。
We're going to sing those words.。
I have decided to follow Jesus.。
No turning back.。
I pray that for you this evening.。
In Jesus name, amen.。
