So, as John has already shared my name, so I go right into the topic.。
John want me to talk about compassion to community transformation.。
Some of you guys may not know what community transformation is, and I try to try to explain。
in the next 25 minutes.。
May I ask how many of you ladies have been pregnant or is pregnant right now?。
Or that you have a young child at home?。
Okay, so just curious, for a pregnant lady with a young child, what would that woman。
should be doing?。
Last September I was shocked when I saw this on the news, and I don't know whether you。
guys remember, a lady who was pregnant and she was trying to commit suicide.。
And the firefighters tried to rescue her, you can see she was dangling, and it's 30。
minutes away from us at Sham Shui Po.。
Any of you guys remember this news?。
I was basically in tears, it's like I cannot imagine why someone who is pregnant want to。
die.。
And the sad thing is when the firefighter went into her house, they also found a young。
child that is dead.。
And that child, even though he's five, but his size of a two-year-old, he was totally。
malnutrition and he had bruises all over his body.。
What's happening?。
If you have a Bible next to you while you're reading this news, what would the Bible have。
been telling you?。
What Bible verse would you have think of?。
And it is happening in a subdivided home.。
There must be someone that had heard her beating her son or heard her crying in pain, in desperation.。
But how come there's no help and she had to seek death?。
Do you remember in the Bible in Luke 10, 25, someone went to Jesus and said, "Teacher,。
what must I do to receive eternal life?"。
Have you thought about that?。
And Jesus said, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength,。
and love your neighbor as yourself."。
And then what story did Jesus tell afterwards?。
The Good Samaritan.。
And what's the difference between the Good Samaritan and all the Levite and the teacher。
before him?。
Jesus said he feels sorry for the person.。
With the news you are reading, do you feel sorry for the lady?。
Who is your neighbor?。
Do you know your neighbor?。
Do you know your neighbor in the city?。
Well, as you all know, Hong Kong is famous for the huge gap between the rich and poor.。
And basically one out of five people are living in poverty per the number.。
But in reality, we have a lot of working poor.。
And for us Christians, this is a great opportunity to share God's love for them.。
It is a very complicated structural problem.。
So for all you PhD student here, you probably understand what I'm talking about.。
But to narrow it down to a very simple term, we are talking about poverty in three very。
simple level.。
You hear a lot on the news about relief, giving different supplies to people, but that doesn't。
relieve the poverty problem.。
We need to see transformation.。
We need to help the people how to fish and not giving them the fish.。
But most important, we need reform, policy changes.。
I don't know what you do, but it doesn't matter what your job is.。
There's something that each one of us can do because this is our city.。
Well, there are four basic dimensions of poverty.。
I mean, today we're just doing a simple 101.。
So when we hear about people who are poor, we think about financially poor, but at the。
same time, they're relationally poor.。
They don't know who to go to.。
Most of visionally poor.。
I don't know whether you have tried to help an underprivileged person before you help。
them to find a job and they don't show up for interview.。
And you're just like, you cannot believe it.。
Yes, we cannot believe it because we live in different world.。
We live in a world that we know what's next.。
We live in a world that we can anticipate.。
We live in a world that has future.。
They live in a world they don't know what's next.。
So with the four dimension of poverty, one of the thing that we all know, they are spiritually。
poor.。
They don't have Jesus in their heart.。
Let me pause for a second.。
In your desperation, in your time when you are crying out, if there is no Jesus in your。
life, what would you do?。
No hope.。
And so church, by God's grace, we are relationally rich.。
You are very blessed in this community.。
If something happened to you, you know who to go to, right?。
You have your small group leader, you have Pastor John.。
But when you don't have a community, when something happened to you and you don't know。
who to go to, do you know how it feels?。
In Hong Kong, there are basically six different very basic things that the poor had to deal。
with every day.。
Number one is our living condition.。
Do you know Hong Kong is very famous for our coffin home, our cage home, and our subdivided。
home?。
So Sarah, I don't know whether you hear about that in UK, but we are not proud of it.。
It's really bad condition.。
And apart from that, most of their bed had fleas on it.。
Well, if you're going to be a volunteer, if I challenge you to go and visit one of those。
places, you do have to expect to bring those fleas back to your home.。
Is that okay?。
It hurts sometimes to serve.。
The other is food problem.。
There are people actually that are starving.。
If you actually go to some of the fast food places, we have actually with COVID seeing。
people that walk around and eating from the dishes of the leftover food.。
It's really sad.。
I actually, I think this morning I saw a gentleman was just digging through the garbage bin looking。
for treasure, not garbage.。
Medical problem.。
When they are sick, they accept fate that they are sick.。
They cannot seek medical help because they don't have the means.。
They are afraid if they know what they're sick of, they will be a burden to their family.。
So a lot of times they will go and seek medical advice when they are really going to send。
to the emergency room.。
It is really sad.。
It is too late.。
The other thing is they, in Hong Kong, you know, we have a very famous saying, "Soo。
zoi hei pau sin."。
Can someone translate that for me?。
Thank you.。
So we can talk about that because we have a choice, but for the underprivileged, they。
don't have a choice because they are back there.。
So a lot of the underprivileged family, you will be surprised.。
They have no money, but they will try to find every means to send their kids to tutoring。
because to them, education is the only way out.。
And most of the parents, they don't even have a primary school education.。
Think about it, when a kid during COVID, everyone is having their class, Zoom, right?。
A kid live in a subdivided home.。
And now the teacher asked him to Zoom and let everybody see what's behind him.。
And then because of COVID, these kids, they use probably the latest, not the latest, but。
the oldest technology.。
They don't have free Wi-Fi at home.。
They use the cards.。
They don't have the means.。
They don't have the bandwidth to get the knowledge.。
And the sad thing is because the teachers are not there, they don't have anyone to ask。
for questions.。
And it is really sad.。
Some of the kids in our partner churches that used to go to tutoring class, and we felt。
that they are catching up, but because of COVID, they fall right back.。
At the same time, social problem and relational problem.。
In the past, Hong Kong, a lot of the underprivileged family, they are cross-cultural marriage between。
some of the mainland gentlemen and some mainland ladies and the Hong Kong older age gentlemen.。
The age gap, that cultural gap, it cause a lot of parenting problem.。
I know these things happen at your place, but in their place, it got magnified a hundred。
times.。
But praise God, we have hope because Jesus came and died for us, and He show us to have。
mercy on earth.。
And last week, John talk about compassion.。
What is compassion?。
Compassion is a gift, a gift and an attitude to live by.。
You know what?。
It is a command, not a choice.。
If you are a follower of Jesus, because we receive the biggest gift from Jesus, and we。
need to pass it on.。
And Jesus know what it's like to serve the poor because He has been poor.。
And I want to learn, talk to you more about compassion, because a lot of times we Christians。
say, "Oh, we are very compassionate."。
But are we?。
Compassion means we are willing to devote ourselves to others' difficulties and needs,。
getting involved in their problems, getting our hands wet, and solve them with practical。
action instead of bless you and go away.。
Compassion is not just an expression of sympathy for others.。
"Oh, I'm really sorry for the person."。
No.。
But seeing people's difficulty, being compassionate and take practical action to bring power,。
hope, and care to those people.。
True compassion is being able and willing to devote oneself to the need of the others.。
It's sacrificial.。
It hurts.。
Are you willing to be a channel of God's love and mercy?。
When was the last time you act on your compassion?。
If you do, bless you.。
Because in the Bible it say, "Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy."。
We love because God first loved us.。
Isn't that powerful?。
And the reason why we're able to be merciful, because we have God's love, and that's a seal,。
a sign that we can go out, be His disciple.。
And to love others and to be merciful, it is a way for us to pour out God's love back。
to those around us.。
It's an act of mercy.。
That is how we show the kingdom on earth.。
I don't know about you, but I'm a mother, so I have kids and the kids go to school.。
So I have different identities.。
I work.。
I live in the community.。
Have you thought about the identity that God have given you means something?。
How can you use your identity to bless other people?。
When was the last time you identify someone in need around you?。
When was the last time you talk to the security guard at your building?。
Good.。
You know, when I first came to Hong Kong, there's a security guard.。
It's very uncomfortable because it looks like she is watching everything I do.。
When I come home, she would tell me, "Oh, Mrs. Hoi, your kids are home now."。
I said, "Oh, thank you."。
And then, so one day, I find out everybody get off the elevator.。
Actually, I don't know about you, but in my building, people don't look at each other。
when they're in the elevator.。
So I intentionally look at them and smile and say, "Good morning."。
They're like so uncomfortable.。
They want to like get out as fast as they can.。
And then the security guard is really nice, right?。
She will say, "Good morning," to everyone.。
And everyone just knock and then walk out.。
So one time, she said, "Good morning," to me, and I said, "Good morning," to her, and。
I just stopped.。
And she look at me and she said, "Oh, don't you have to rush out?"。
I say, "No.。
How are you doing?"。
And she look at me and is like, "Oh, are you sure?。
Don't you have to go?"。
And I say, "No.。
How are you doing?"。
So we started having a conversation.。
She started telling me that her son is not doing good in school and we've become friends.。
But she make it very clear, "Don't talk to me when I'm at work because I'm not supposed。
to talk to you."。
I don't know, but I guess since I talk to all the security guards, so it doesn't really。
matter because everybody knows who Mrs. Hui is.。
And the beauty of it is...。
Oh, so I need to tell you this joke.。
Actually, it's real.。
Helena knows my daughter.。
My daughter doesn't speak Chinese.。
So when she first came to Hong Kong, she was probably like nine years old.。
Because she doesn't speak Cantonese, she's afraid of the security guard because every。
time she comes back, the security guard would talk to her and she have no clue what the。
guard said.。
So one day I came back and the security guard said, "Oh, your daughter is so nice.。
She gave me some seaweeds."。
I say, "No way.。
She will not talk to you.。
Why would she give you some seaweeds?"。
So the real story is I went home and I talked to my daughter.。
I said, "What happened?。
The security guard was so happy that you gave her seaweed."。
And my daughter say, "No, she asked for it."。
I say, "How?"。
So apparently she was eating her seaweed and walking to the building and the security guard。
saw her.。
So I try to make the story together.。
Apparently she was dropping seaweed on the floor.。
So the security guard was pointing her seaweed to let her know she was dropping.。
But my daughter thought since she was pointing at the seaweed, the security guard wants the。
seaweed.。
So she gave a peg to the security guard.。
The security guard was happy and my daughter rushed into the elevator.。
But you know what?。
That little accident bring the security guard and my daughter closer.。
Now my daughter is not afraid of her anymore.。
She just treat her with her snacks.。
And the security guard knows my daughter...。
Will not think my daughter is rude anymore because of what happened.。
So it's a little act of kindness that we can do to make a difference in other people's。
life.。
What happens if you are an employer?。
How do you treat your employee with radical gratitude?。
That's another lecture.。
Okay, I really like Henry Newman.。
In his book, A Spirituality of Caregiving, he said that care is out of compassion.。
You whip with people, you cry with them, you feel how they feel, you enter into their life。
just like what Jesus did to us.。
And by doing that, you know what happened?。
We are blessed because we got strengthened by the power of the Holy Spirit.。
And we have more of Jesus in us.。
I'm sure by now all of you heard about shape, right, in Purpose Driven Life.。
But do you know your shape?。
Your spiritual gift, your heart, your burden?。
What people group did God put in your life?。
Your ability, what you can do or what you cannot do, your personality.。
Even you are shy, you can still be a volunteer.。
And what experience you have that you can bless other people.。
Well, it's important to know the shape that God has given you so you know how to be a。
blessing for others.。
When we talk about blessing for others, we talk about the body of Christ.。
It's a community.。
There's so much more we can do.。
Do you know that in Hong Kong, there are more than 1,500 churches, more than 1,500 Christian。
NGO, 800,000 Christian.。
Those are the ones that go to church and check the box of Christian.。
But there's a lot of people that believe in God, which I believe, that did not call themselves。
Christian.。
They're in the church of Jesus.。
Because we have a lot of volunteers that love people and love God, but they just don't go。
to church.。
That's another thing.。
So we at CMP, when John talk about collaboration, we really want to collaborate with different。
Christian organizations because we believe as a body of Christ, we can multiply and we。
can do more for His glory.。
Does any one of you guys belong to a Christian fellowship?。
Awesome.。
Well, I know this guy called Thomas.。
I don't know whether you know him.。
He's with the Association of Christian Accountants.。
So one day, Thomas called me.。
She said, "Suzanna, I just had lunch."。
I said, "Good.。
Wow, you know what?"。
He went to a cha chaan teng and he overheard two waitresses talking behind him.。
Waitress A was telling B, "Oh, I had a really good day yesterday."。
So waitress B said, "What happened?"。
A said, "Someone gave me a tip."。
When was the last time you gave a tip at cha chaan teng?。
Radical generosity.。
So Thomas heard that and said, "Oh, I'm a Christian, right?。
I'm going to make a difference for waitress A and B. I'm going to give them a big tip。
when I leave," which was what he did.。
So the waitresses were very happy and Thomas walked out being very fulfilled.。
"Oh, I did something good for Jesus."。
And then as he walked back to his office in Mongkwa, which is a 10-minute walk, he realized。
there's a lot more cha chaan teng on the way.。
And he was thinking, "I only blessed one cha chaan teng.。
What about the others?。
I cannot go to cha chaan teng every meal, right?"。
So he called me up and said, "Hey, I heard that CMP has a program called Restaurant Allowance.。
Can my company join?"。
He has a small-sized CPA firm, by the way.。
Okay, I'm not talking about that.。
So I said, "No, you cannot."。
He said, "Why?"。
I said, "Because the spirit of the restaurant coupon is the follow-up."。
So, okay, if you remember when the pandemic start, the government has a lot of eating。
restriction for restaurant and a lot of small-sized restaurant basically go under because they。
cannot survive.。
At the same time, a lot of the subvention NGO that is responsible to deliver food to。
the underprivileged stopped their service because they were not sure whether it's safe。
to deliver the food to the underprivileged.。
Do you remember around that first quarter?。
So a lot of our partner churches in the district, they sort of filled the gap.。
Most of them, they will open the church maybe two times a week to serve the underprivileged。
because the mainstream of food supply vanished during that time.。
So a lot of them went to our partner church and our partner church pastor called me, "Suzanna,。
do you have more food?。
We need a lot of lunch boxes and we need a lot of food for the underprivileged because。
they are flooding into our church."。
And I'm like, "I don't."。
At the same time, we also see a lot of restaurants that are folding.。
So pilot project development is what we do a lot.。
So we say, "Okay, let's bring in a new program called Restaurant Allowance."。
CMP, we go raise money and then for every church, we give them $3,000.。
We ask the church to go to the nearest cha chaan teng or small restaurant to work with。
the owner to get 100 lunch coupon, $30.。
We don't want the cha chaan teng to go under, so it had to be a reasonable price.。
And then the church can give the coupon to the underprivileged.。
So it's a win-win-win, right?。
So anyway, so I told Thomas, "You cannot do that because you are not a church.。
You guys cannot do follow-up."。
So he's like, "Well," he said, "Then what should I do?"。
I say, "Pray about it and maybe you can go back and talk to ACA and see what they're。
willing to do."。
So he called me two weeks later and say, "Susanna, I talked to ACA.。
The board approve that we can...。
They will sponsor us for the program.。
So they will pay for the restaurant coupon."。
I say, "Awesome."。
But I say, "That's not enough."。
So he said, "What do you mean?"。
I said, "You know other Christian fellowships.。
Why don't you find two or three more Christian fellowships?。
We can do more."。
So he did that.。
And he called me back, he said, "Gosh, praise God.。
He got three other Christian fellowships that say yes."。
So with four Christian fellowships, we started the coupon allowance program for the professionals.。
So what the Christian fellowship does, they will recruit volunteers to pass out the food。
coupon and they will raise money so we can buy from more small restaurant.。
And what we do at CMP, we do the training.。
We work with our partner churches and we recruit the underprivileged to receive those coupon.。
And the first batch, we do it in two district, Sumtree Po and Koon Tong.。
After the first batch, almost 220 people accepted Christ.。
And then Thomas, okay, this is one person.。
Because of his passion, it become something greater than he can imagine.。
Batch two, we continue.。
He took over, he leads.。
We step back to be the consultant.。
Batch three, he recruited more other partners.。
He trained them.。
Batch four, we went to other districts.。
And then batch five, the other district churches lead.。
And we continue to see that multiplying effect.。
It all comes out from one person.。
Do we have any more Thomas in this audience?。
I wish.。
I wish there is a lot of Thomas.。
So I just want to tell you this example, not because Thomas is really good.。
It's Thomas God is really good.。
And Thomas feel really blessed because he get to experience the power of the Holy Spirit.。
He get to experience the abundance.。
He get to see things that he cannot even imagine that will happen.。
And when we talk about the four dimension of property, through what Thomas did, we call。
it kingdom asset-based community development.。
A lot of times when we go to a district, we look at what are the needs in the district.。
But as Christians, we look for abundance.。
We look for God's provision.。
We look for the resources that God already placed in the district.。
And with that, we want to have a process to be empowered by God that everyone in the community。
get to contribute.。
We want the people in the community to grow, to learn to face and deal with their problem。
as a community, not on their own.。
And the result, the person get to grow holistically.。
And we have a saying in HKCMP, "Zhang shou zuo zhe, bin sheng zuo yin zhe," to transform。
those who need help to be helper.。
And because we believe when the underprivileged are being transformed, they will be a lot。
more effective to help those who have been in their shoes.。
Last week, you guys remember, John mentioned about the three-step for KFC International。
to get started.。
I think that is very wise.。
Stay where you are, pray for opportunity, and pursue relationship.。
Oh yeah, you're right.。
Start where you are.。
Okay.。
Start where you are.。
Have you thought about where you can start?。
From your neighborhood, even from your own family, from your kids' school?。
So John asked me to bring some examples to the church so you guys can, at the congregation,。
you guys can find ways to get started.。
The first thing I want to suggest, we call this Love in Action gift card.。
On it, it say, "Zhe si sheng, sung gup li dik lai mat."。
This is a gift from God, will bring you peace and joy.。
So what we normally do is we, actually what I normally do is when I share a sermon, I。
will give it to the congregation.。
If what I share today means something to you, and if the Holy Spirit is tugging in your。
heart and you have the desire to make a difference and to bless someone, carry this card in your。
wallet and then pray that God will bring someone that is in need will be around you.。
I don't know who that is, but when that happens, give the card to that someone and keep praying.。
If the Spirit leads for you to share the whole gospel, do it.。
And if it's not ready, pray for a Bible verse that you want to use to bless the person and。
write it here and give it to the person.。
And if you think the person is open, give the card and pray with the person.。
Start a relationship.。
That's one thing you guys can do.。
And this card, each one of you guys will get a copy of this card with your response card.。
Please don't throw it away.。
Really use it.。
The other one is to check out our Facebook.。
On it, we have a lot of different activities.。
Actually, you can sign up and you can join to get some experience on how to serve.。
The other one is like, we actually have books that talk about how to serve and we have stories。
of people and churches that are making transmission in the community.。
So it would be great, John, if we can do an all-church study.。
We even have a devotion session from Pastor Ola.。
But you are really blessed because this is actually a heart from the press this week.。
It's supposed to come last week, but we received it two days ago, so I bring a couple copies.。
This is our latest book.。
It has stories in Chinese.。
And if any one of you guys are passionate enough to help us translate, we'd love that.。
But it has 22 stories of individual churches and community and how things are being transformed.。
It's all real stories.。
And I hope you guys can read it and be encouraged.。
The other thing is if you don't know how to start as a family, I will encourage you and。
your husband or wife or kids, go to Google Maps and put your home in the middle and identify。
the area which is within like 10 minutes walk from your home and do a one or two hour prayer。
walk.。
As you walk and pray, you ask God to show you something that you've never seen.。
See with His eyes, feel with His heart.。
After the prayer walk, I know God will reveal to you who is your neighbor in your community.。
And it's amazing.。
It's amazing with those delivery.。
And of course, I have a little booklet here.。
It's called Simple Life and we partner with another churches.。
It's a very simple thing.。
You can do this on your own.。
It's a one week exercise for you to deprive yourself of something like you cannot have。
Starbucks today or you cannot take a taxi.。
Okay, so with the money that you save, you share with your small group and then you guys。
can pray about how to use the money.。
But the most important thing is the back, the spiritual reflection.。
What did you learn or what do you experience when your life is being deprived?。
When you have to think about which empty out exit to get off because you don't have money。
in your cart or you had to get off two stop before your normal stop.。
That's reality to a lot of people.。
And the last one I want to share, oh, actually I have more PowerPoint.。
Peace Box.。
Have any one of you guys heard about it?。
We do it with the Chinese side, but this is our 10th year and this is some photos I took。
when we have another international church that did the Peace Box and they actually 30。
people from the church, we took them to a government public estate and partnered with。
some of our local churches to deliver a box and they were so creative.。
Before we do the delivery, the congregation actually designed some games to play with。
the kids, so it become a half day activity.。
So there's something I really want to encourage your congregation to do and I have some more。
information and some flyer.。
It's basically a gift box that you take an old shoe box and we have lists of suggested。
items for the people to receive it.。
You stuff the box together as a family.。
You have young kids, I strongly encourage you to show them or teach them what is generosity.。
And then on top of the box, we have a prayer card that you can write notes and bless those。
underprivileged and then you save it together as a congregation and you serve together.。
The other one I want to recommend for those who can understand Chinese to join, this is。
a program, actually it was initiated by one of our partner, Dr. Siu.。
Dr. Siu is a family doctor.。
Any doctor here?。
Oh, we need to get more doctors here.。
So he is a family doctor but he realized a lot of his patient need more than physical。
healing, they need holistic healing.。
So he came to us and say he really want to do more for the patient and he also realized。
a lot of patient, a lot of people who are sick need to be visited and cared for, need。
more volunteer.。
So he took the liberty of creating this training program that every other Friday during lunchtime,。
so this is for you professionals, you can Zoom and join the one hour training.。
And every training has been very practical to share with the people and also volunteer。
opportunities.。
So I just want to use that example as a doctor, he can, God really encourage him to do something。
like this.。
So what is your profession?。
Engineer, teacher, soccer player, there is something that God can use your shape to help.。
If you cannot think of anything, then you can join our restaurant coupon program by。
donating or a cup of cold water.。
We give a $5,000 emergency relief fund for those underprivileged and by donating, you。
can tell us do you want to be connected to the person that are receiving your donation。
and visitation and we can make that happen.。
So when I first accepted Christ, there is a Bible verse that I really love that I want。
to share with you.。
And it's in Matthew 25.。
In my dream, I wished one day when I die, I get to the gates of heaven and Jesus will。
look at me and say, "Good and faithful servant."。
But you know when I talk to different people, people give me different interpretation of。
what is good and what is faithful.。
So after working at CMP for the last 11 years, I sort of figure out my own definition.。
Is to manage the talent and the resources that God gave me.。
Be a good steward.。
Hong Kong has a huge gap between the rich and poor and for most of us who are sitting。
here, we are the ones that are resourceful.。
How can we use the resources that God put on our management to multiply for his glory?。
Good in a sense, being helpful and doing the will of God.。
I don't know what God's will is for you, but I can guarantee when you serve others, you。
will receive the blessing of giving.。
Thank you.。
[Applause]。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
