Thank you, Pastor John.。
We're continuing our series on the book of Ezekiel.。
And who's enjoyed the series so far?。
Yeah, that's good.。
Okay, some of you haven't read it yet,。
so haven't enjoyed it yet.。
It's all good.。
Today, the life, the topic is,。
is life a dead-end street?。
And Pastor John last week spoke on chapter five,。
and he spoke on three sort of main points.。
Don't rob God, don't rob others,。
don't rob yourself.。
And he talked about these illusions of wealth, right?。
Illusions, things that aren't really true,。
aren't really there.。
If you watch Spider-Man, Far From Home,。
there's a lot of illusions there, right?。
Wealth brings satisfaction, that's an illusion.。
Wealth solves all problems.。
Wealth brings peace of mind.。
Wealth brings security.。
These were the different illusions。
that Pastor John talked about last week.。
And the preacher continues in chapter six.。
He talks about this problem。
that we have in this world.。
And if you see the next slide,。
the problem a lot of us have。
is that we think the grass is greener on the other side,。
literally greener on the other side.。
You know, I'm from Canada,。
and I often have people that come up to me。
and say, "Oh, Canada, it's such a great place.。
"I really want to go there.。
"You know, it's like the Promised Land,。
"flowing with milk and honey."。
And I'm like, "Yeah, Canada has its good and its bad,。
"but Hong Kong also has its good and its bad.。
"Is grass really greener in Canada?。
"Well, maybe not in winter.。
"You can't see the grass.。
"It's probably very yellow, just like this, under the snow."。
The problem in this world right now that we have。
is that we think the grass is often greener on the other side.。
There's a question on the next slide, and it says this.。
"If only I had, then I would be happy."。
What's the first thing that comes up in your mind?。
For some of you, it might be sleep.。
Condo? Yeah? Name it out. Name it out.。
If I only had, I would be--。
You would have happiness?。
You're not happy? Together? I'm joking.。
[laughs]。
Some people think, "Oh, if I only had, you know, this car," right?。
A Ferrari or something like that.。
"If I only had a house," it's hard to afford a house in Hong Kong.。
"If I only had, oh, this wife or a girlfriend or a family," right?。
Some people are very connected to that.。
"If I only had, you know, children," right?。
"If I only had children, then I would be happy.。
"Our marriage would be happy.。
"If I only had this job, if I had only this position,。
"then I would be happy."。
We all try to fill our hearts, as we see in the next slide.。
We try to fill our hearts with things that often don't satisfy.。
You know, I get that new phone, and it's nice for how long?。
A couple days, right? Two days.。
And then it's back to normal. It does the same sort of things.。
You know, I see people who've wanted a relationship for so long,。
and then they finally get a relationship,。
and then they're like, you know,。
"God, can I get out of this relationship?"。
It happens.。
We buy something, we get into something。
that we think is greener on the other side,。
but at the end, it doesn't satisfy.。
And that's sort of the problem we have in this world.。
It's sort of like a dead end at times, right?。
It seems like no matter what we do,。
we fill our life with stuff,。
but it just doesn't satisfy.。
There's a disease. This disease is called discontentment.。
Discontentment, according to the Internet,。
the definition is this,。
the lack of satisfaction with one's possessions, status, or situation.。
Lack of satisfaction with one's possessions, status, or situation.。
Is anybody feeling dissatisfied today? Discontent today?。
The definition of contentment is the opposite.。
Thankful to God who has given one's possessions, status, or situation.。
You're thankful.。
We're going to play a game tonight.。
It's called "Would You Rather?"。
Who's played it before? Would you rather?。
Yeah? Good.。
For those who didn't put up their hand, we'll teach you how to play.。
So number one, here's the situation here.。
Be careful.。
So those who don't participate,。
we'll invite you up to have a just dance afterwards,。
just to keep you sharp tonight.。
So you notice those around you who don't participate,。
at the end, you're going to have a just dance with Pastor John.。
Would you rather have wealth, possessions, and honor,。
and not be able to enjoy it,。
or situation B, have very little wealth, possessions, and honor,。
and be able to enjoy it?。
So let's do it again.。
Would you rather have wealth, possessions, and honor,。
and not be able to enjoy it, situation A,。
or situation B, have very little wealth, possessions, and honor,。
and be able to enjoy it?。
Okay. For those who want situation A, raise their hand.。
Situation A.。
You don't want a position?。
Possessions, wealth, and honor?。
You don't want those things?。
Are you sure? Are you sure?。
Think about it. Okay.。
All right. Who wants situation B? Raise your hand.。
Okay. All right. Good.。
I'm noting those who haven't raised their hand.。
They're coming up for a just dance afterwards.。
And the preacher says this, right?。
He starts off, "There is an evil that I've seen under the sun,。
and it lies heavy on mankind."。
What is this evil?。
What is this evil?。
Well, if we look at chapter 5,。
and we look at this chapter,。
last chapter, he's talking about, you know,。
God has given us all these things, right?。
But we can't seem to enjoy it, right?。
And so he's talking about discontentment, I believe.。
This discontentment.。
And he's saying that in this first situation,。
one person can have wealth, possessions, and honor, right?。
But it doesn't guarantee contentment.。
It doesn't guarantee contentment.。
Right? We look at the movie stars.。
We think, "Wow, they have wealth.。
They have possessions.。
They have fame. They have sort of honor."。
Right? But shouldn't they be content?。
Or we look at, you know, some rich people in our lives,。
and we think, "Wow, if only we had what they had,。
we would be content."。
But the preacher is saying here,。
God gives this person wealth, possessions, and honor。
so that he lacks nothing at all that he desires.。
Yet God does not give him power to enjoy them.。
But a stranger enjoys them.。
This is vanity. It is a grievous sin.。
Has anybody been to Mississauga before?。
It's in Toronto. Yeah? Mississauga?。
There's this road. It's called Mississauga Road.。
All right? It's where all the most beautiful, big houses are.。
It's like sort of Beverly Hills, you know?。
Like all the huge houses. Right?。
And whenever I drive past there, I see this one house,。
and it just stands out.。
And I see this house, and I'm like, "Wow.。
If only I lived in this house."。
You know? Then, wow, my dreams would be fulfilled.。
And it's interesting, because my parents got to know this person.。
Somehow, he came to the church one day.。
Chinese, yes. It was important to you, right, Charles?。
He's Chinese. He was Chinese.。
And he came to our church, and one day, he was on the news.。
And he was back in Hong Kong. He was driving a Ferrari.。
And he was with his brother, and he crashed the car.。
And he died instantly.。
And I was like, "Wow. This person.。
He owned the house that I always dreamed of.。
He drove the car that I've always wanted."。
And unfortunately, God took him away.。
Wow.。
Wealth, possessions, honor.。
But it doesn't guarantee contentment.。
It doesn't guarantee contentment.。
This man left several kids and a wife behind.。
It's sad. It's sad to think that the wealth of this world doesn't mean contentment.。
Or yet, you're able to enjoy them.。
Second "would you rather" question.。
All right.。
Would you rather have a hundred children?。
Does anybody have a hundred children here?。
A hundred children while your soul is not satisfied and no one goes to your funeral?。
Okay. Would you rather have a hundred children and your soul is not satisfied and no one goes to your funeral?。
Or would you have no children while your soul is satisfied and some people attend your funeral?。
Okay. Who would rather have situation A? Raise your hand.。
Situation A. A hundred children.。
Come on.。
So many children. Wow.。
A hundred children. Nobody? Going once. Going twice. I'm joking. It's not a...。
Okay. Who would have situation B? Raise your hand.。
Okay. All right. Very good.。
The second situation that the preacher talks about is this.。
A hundred children and lives many years but yet his soul is not satisfied and no one goes to his burial.。
What does it mean back in the day when you had a lot of children?。
Well, a lot of them, what did they do back then in Israel?。
They were farmers or taking care of the livestock. Right?。
So, if you had many children, it means you could have many helpers. Right?。
You wanted people to help, you know, with the business, with the farm, with the livestock.。
It meant that you probably could be richer. Right?。
If you took care of the livestock better or you took care of the farm better, it meant you could have been richer.。
Also, it meant you had descendants. Right?。
Descendants was very important to have a name that could carry on. Right?。
David and his lineage. Right?。
God promised that your lineage would pass on. That was a very important thing.。
Also, if you had many children, it could have meant that you would have been taken care of. Right?。
My dad always asks me. Right?。
Oh, he didn't always ask me. He just asked me before.。
He's like, "When you get older, will you take care of me?"。
Has anybody's parents ever asked them this? Yeah?。
Oh, yeah. Somebody. I'm not the only person.。
So, I like to play with my dad. Right?。
So, I'm like, "Let me think about it."。
You know, I was 10 at the time.。
Actually, what I said is, "I'll only take care of mom."。
Just to bug him. Just to bug him.。
I'm joking, dad. I'm joking.。
I'll take care of you.。
And it's sad. Right?。
It's sad that when, you know, some of these old people.。
We went to do elderly visitation.。
All right?。
This is before COVID.。
We went regularly as a fellowship to visit some of the elderlies in our city.。
And we visited some of them, and they were doing great.。
You know, their sons or their daughter and their relatives or their grandchildren would come and visit regularly.。
There would also be some that we encountered that were very lonely.。
And I remember this vividly.。
This one elderly gentleman who lived by himself.。
And I asked him where his kids were.。
Did he have any family? Any kids?。
And he's like, "Yes. I have kids. I have two children.。
And they live in Australia."。
I'm like, "Oh, that's great. You have children in Australia."。
And I'm like, "When's the last time you've seen them?"。
And he said, "I don't remember. It must have been several years already."。
And I was like, "Oh, it must be very busy.。
Maybe they just, you know, have work and children and they don't have time.。
Maybe they call you. Have they called you?"。
And he's like, "No. He doesn't really call often either."。
It's sad to have children, 100 children, and no one attends your burial.。
And nobody takes care of you when you get older.。
And the preacher says in this situation, it's better to have a stillborn baby,。
a stillborn baby, than to be one of these people.。
It's because he says this, right?。
"For it comes in vanity and goes in darkness.。
And in darkness, the name is covered.。
Moreover, it has not seen the sun or known anything.。
Yet it finds rest rather than he."。
Better a stillborn child than a person who has 100 children。
and nobody attends his funeral.。
So, children doesn't guarantee contentment.。
Children doesn't guarantee contentment.。
The last thing, the last point he mentions,。
okay, let's do the next "Would you rather" game.。
Would you rather live 2,000 years, okay, 2,000 years,。
that's a very long time, okay?。
Think of all the investments you could make in 2,000 years.。
And enjoy no good, or you live a short life and enjoy some good, okay?。
Who would rather have situation A, raise their hand, live 2,000 years?。
Anybody want to live 2,000 years?。
2,000 years? No? Okay.。
Who would rather have situation B, raise their hand.。
Situation B, okay, all right, situation B.。
This is the last point he's trying to make.。
Even though he should live 1,000 years twice, over,。
yet enjoy no good, do not all go to the same place.。
Does anybody know who the oldest living person is right now?。
According to Wikipedia.。
I just Googled this a couple of days ago.。
150, okay, it's not. Let's show the next slide.。
The oldest living woman currently, according to Wikipedia in the green here,。
is 118 years old.。
118 years old, okay? Wow, that's great.。
Okay, Lucie, is it Lucie? Lucille, Lucille from France.。
Do you think the oldest person in the world is a living woman or a man right now?。
Do you think? Any guesses?。
Woman, okay.。
Next slide, you guys are right, you guys are smart.。
The oldest living man right now is 113 years old.。
It's Juan, right? Juan, okay, from Venezuela.。
Wow, who wants to live to 118 years old?。
Raise their hand. Anybody want to? No? Why not?。
John does, okay, okay, JP, good.。
All right, you guys don't want to live that old, all right, understandable.。
Who is the oldest person in the Bible, oldest living person in the Bible?。
Not Abraham. Who?。
Starts with an M.。
Yes, I heard it, I heard it. Say it out loud.。
Yes, not Adam. Methuselah, Methuselah.。
How old was he? 969 years old.。
969 years old, wow, amazing.。
The preacher is saying this.。
What's so good about living so long?。
1,000 years, twice over, 2,000 years, what's so good about it?。
What's so good about it when, as we see in the next slide,。
both old and young people go to the same place?。
They all go to the same place, right?。
They eventually face death.。
And what he's saying is long life doesn't guarantee contentment.。
In chapter 6, he says this, right?。
Wealth, possessions, honor doesn't guarantee contentment.。
Children doesn't guarantee contentment.。
Living a long life doesn't guarantee contentment.。
It doesn't guarantee contentment.。
Let's continue in verse 7 to 9, verse 7 to 9 here.。
And he says this, "All the toil of man is for his mouth,。
yet his appetite is not satisfied.。
For what advantage has the wise over the fool,。
and what does the poor know how to conduct himself over before the living?"。
The preacher is summarizing the problem in these couple of verses.。
He's saying that we are just never satisfied.。
We keep eating this appetite, right?。
The burger just gets longer and taller and bigger, right?。
But we're just never satisfied, right?。
How good would it be to pay for somebody's meal。
and know that they would be satisfied for the rest of their life, right?。
I keep eating buffets and just keep never getting satisfied.。
I keep eating and eating, eating and eating.。
We have this desire within us and it just never gets satisfied, right?。
Have you ever thought about that?。
You might be thinking about your next meal.。
But have you thought about the next meal after that。
and the meal after that and the meal after that?。
Because it keeps going.。
We're never satisfied.。
And that's what the preacher is saying,。
that all the work that we have is for our mouth,。
and yet we are never satisfied.。
This is the problem.。
And he says this problem is all over, right?。
You could be wise.。
You could be a fool, right?。
You could be rich.。
You could be poor.。
Both of these two kinds of people,。
they all have this unquenchable satisfaction,。
unquenchable desire that cannot be satisfied.。
We're just not satisfied.。
The ultimate problem is this desire that we have。
that just never seems to be satisfied.。
And so the preacher highlights the problem.。
He specifies three specific situations。
that we can't find contentment or satisfaction.。
And then he finishes off this chapter.。
And he says this.。
Let's read it together, all right?。
"Whatever has come to be has already been named,。
and it has known what man is,。
and that he is not able to dispute with one stronger than he.。
The one"--words--。
"the more vanity.。
And what is advantage to man?。
For who knows what is good for man while he lives。
the few days of his vain life,。
which he passes like a shadow?。
For who can tell man what will come after him under the sun?。
The first thing that he talks about is。
whatever has come to be has already been named."。
The first thing that the preacher is specifying here。
is that there's somebody that already knows what's going to happen.。
He calls us to contentment.。
And the first thing he mentions to us。
is that God is in control.。
He is sovereign.。
He already knows what is going to be named.。
Before Google had a name,。
before Microsoft had a name,。
before Apple had a name,。
God already knew these things were going to be named.。
He is in control.。
He's all-knowing.。
He is sovereign.。
The second thing he points out is that God is stronger, right?。
It is known what man is。
and that he is not able to dispute with one that is stronger than he.。
In other words, God is wiser.。
God is stronger and wiser than us.。
The third thing that the preacher points out is this, right?。
"For who knows what is good for man while he lives。
the few days of his life?"。
The third thing that the preacher points out is this,。
that God knows what is best for us.。
God knows what is best for us.。
And so he is calling us to contentment.。
And so according to these verses,。
what is truly contentment?。
I'll give the definition here.。
Contentment is confidence that God is sovereign over all things,。
that he is much wiser than us,。
and believing that he has what is best for us.。
Contentment is confidence that God is sovereign over all things,。
that he is much wiser than us,。
and trusting that he has what is best for us.。
Apostle Paul says this,。
"Not that I am speaking of being in need,。
for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content.。
I know how to be brought low, and I know how to be abound."。
And that's 'cause Paul was rich.。
Before he was rich, right, he was one of the Pharisees.。
He went to the top schools.。
He knows what it means to have a high position.。
But he was also a fool, because he did not know God.。
He didn't know truly Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.。
And he was also poor, right?。
And he was also funded by the churches as a tent maker in his ministry.。
And so Paul has been rich.。
He has been poor.。
He has been wise.。
He has been a fool.。
And yet he's saying here in this situation,。
he has learned to be content in whatever situation.。
And he's talking to the Philippian church here.。
He's talking about, you know, the suffering he's enduring for the gospel.。
He's talking about the churches he's built up,。
the opposition that he's faced.。
And yet, God strengthens him through all things.。
Pascal says this,。
"There is a God-shaped vacuum in the heart of every person,。
and it can never be filled by any created thing.。
It can only be filled by God, made known through Jesus Christ."。
Put your hand on your heart right now.。
Put your hand on your heart.。
Know this, right?。
This is what Pascal is saying.。
Your heart cannot be filled by LV or Gucci or Ferrari or another condo.。
It can only be filled by the Creator himself.。
Not any created thing, only the Creator himself,。
made known through Jesus Christ.。
So you ask, you know, Pastor John, Johnny, or John as well,。
you can ask Pastor John,。
"Is life a dead end? Is life a dead end street?"。
The preacher is challenging us here today。
that life ends, or life actually begins.。
Life begins when we die to our own desires, our selfish desires.。
Life begins when we die to our own desires.。
What did Jesus say?。
If we are to follow him, we must deny ourselves.。
Pick up the cross and follow him.。
And what is eternal life?。
Eternal life is knowing Jesus Christ.。
Life truly begins when we die to ourselves,。
when we deny ourselves our own selfishness, our own sin.。
Life truly begins.。
Life truly begins.。
The preacher is challenging us。
that we can't find contentment in this world.。
Many children, wealth, long years of life,。
we can't find contentment in this world.。
It's only through the Creator that can satisfy。
this deep longings in our heart.。
Only the Creator can satisfy the deepest longings of our heart.。
And that is why it's so hard to be a Christian in this world.。
Why is it so hard?。
Because we're living in this world,。
full of its temptations, its different desires,。
people you can compare with.。
We're supposed to be living in this world,。
and we're so trapped with the temptations and the sins of this world,。
but we're not supposed to be of this world.。
Our destination is heaven.。
Our destination is heaven.。
We're supposed to live among these people,。
climbing the corporate ladder,。
making money, just like the people around us,。
exercising, having fun,。
but we're not of this world.。
Money, how good we are at sports,。
is not supposed to define us.。
Our identity is in heaven.。
Our passport is in heaven.。
It's not about a passport in Hong Kong,。
or if you get it in UK, or if you get it in Canada.。
Our citizenship has to be from heaven.。
And so you ask Pastor Johnny,。
"I want to be content.。
How can I do it?"。
Practically, every day, in this world, day to day,。
how can I do it?。
I have three points for you.。
Three points.。
And the first thing is what the preacher talked about.。
Give up control.。
Give up control.。
Right?。
We need to trust that God is sovereign,。
that He is in control.。
He's wiser than us,。
and that He has what is best for us.。
The first thing is we have to give up control.。
Right?。
There are many things in this world that we can't control.。
The only thing that we can control is what we do,。
our attitude, and what we do, and our actions.。
Right?。
So the first thing that we need to do is give up control.。
Give up control, not to just to anyone, but to who?。
To the one that is sovereign, wiser,。
and knows what is best for us.。
Jeremiah 29, 11, Pastor John prayed it.。
"For I know the plans I have for you," declares the Lord.。
"Plans to prosper you and not to harm you.。
Plans to give you hope and a future."。
God was saying this to the Israel people.。
They were in suffering, in exile,。
for more than 300 years, right?。
Or 300 years.。
Do I still have a future?。
Will I still prosper?。
God was giving them.。
God was giving them this promise.。
And He is also speaking to us today.。
God wants us to have a future and a hope.。
It might not be, you know, being super rich.。
It might not be everything that you wish you could have.。
But God will give you enough.。
He is enough.。
Give up control.。
Give control to the Lord.。
What do you think the second thing is?。
Don't show it yet.。
What do you think the--。
Give what?。
What's the second thing?。
Any ideas?。
Give?。
Give thanks.。
We got to give thanks.。
1 Thessalonians, it says this,。
"Rejoice always, pray without ceasing,。
give thanks in all circumstances.。
For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus our Lord."。
Give thanks.。
I remember a couple times in my life,。
I was very unhappy.。
I don't know what happened.。
I was--。
I don't know, somebody--。
Maybe I lost in a basketball game or something.。
It doesn't happen often, but it might have happened.。
And I just remember, you know, I feel so frustrated.。
I missed that shot.。
You know, I didn't guard this person right, you know, in defense.。
I was just so frustrated.。
I was like, "Oh, I'm not going to play basketball again。
for another week," or something like that.。
And I just remember, like, remind myself, give thanks.。
Have you ever tried giving thanks。
when you're in a very unhappy situation?。
What happens?。
Has anybody tried giving thanks when they're not happy, sad?。
Has anybody tried it?。
Yes?。
What happens when you do it?。
You feel better.。
You're at peace.。
Very good.。
You guys should try it.。
The next time you're unhappy, or maybe you're unhappy now,。
you should try it.。
Give thanks.。
"Oh, God, thank you.。
You know, I still have breath.。
Thank you, God.。
You know, I still have my children, my family.。
I have people who love me.。
I have this church, and I have all these pastors。
that take care of me."。
You know, start to give thanks.。
And when you give thanks, you start to be content,。
thankful for the things God has given you.。
The last give is give away.。
Give control to God, give thanks to God,。
and you give away to God and to others.。
God spoke to Abraham, or Abram back then, and he said this.。
Next slide.。
"I will make you into a great nation.。
I will bless you.。
I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing."。
Why did God want to bless Abraham?。
Why did God want to bless Israel?。
So that they could be a blessing to others.。
God didn't want to bless Abraham so he could be super rich,。
take control of the whole world, and that would be that.。
He wanted to bless Abraham and Israel so that they could be。
a blessing to others.。
A blessing to others.。
Now I know the Israel team has been to the next slide,。
the Dead Sea.。
Why is the Dead Sea called the Dead Sea?。
What has happened?。
What has happened?。
Pastor John, what has happened?。
Water, salt water keeps coming in, right?。
But then what happens?。
It just stays there.。
Eventually the sun evaporates it and it becomes very, very salty.。
The water evaporates and it becomes very salty.。
It doesn't flow.。
It doesn't flow.。
And that's what happens when we keep God's blessing for ourselves.。
That's what happens when we keep God's blessing for ourselves.。
Eventually we become like the Dead Sea.。
We get stuffed up.。
We spend everything.。
It all becomes about us.。
When we keep God's blessing, when God has blessed you with。
knowledge, God has blessed you with money, God has blessed you。
with resources or connections, when you keep it to yourself,。
eventually it just all becomes about you.。
And when it becomes all about you, eventually you fall into sin.。
You fall into the Dead Sea, literally.。
God blesses you with money.。
God blesses you with connections.。
God blesses you with musical talent.。
God blesses you with connections so that you can bless others.。
So that you can be a blessing to those around you.。
That's right.。
God is calling us to contentment in a very discontented world.。
The preacher is calling us to be content in this very discontent world.。
Are you willing to give control to the Lord?。
Acknowledge that He is in control.。
He is sovereign.。
He is wiser than you.。
And that He has what is best for you.。
Some of the most unhappy people are people that think they need to。
control everything.。
Are we willing to give up that control for surrender to the Lord?。
Are you willing to give thanks?。
Paul told the church, give thanks continuously.。
Every day we need to pray and give thanks to the Lord for what He has。
given us.。
If you give up control to the Lord, if you give thanks to the Lord,。
and you give away to the Lord and give away to the people that God wants。
you to give it away to.。
The things, the possessions, the knowledge, the connections, the。
things that God has blessed you with.。
If you give it away.。
God has called us not to be hoarders.。
God has called us to be stewards.。
Stewards don't own anything.。
Stewards are only caretakers.。
We only take care of the money that God has given us.。
We only take care of the children that God has given us.。
We are not hoarders.。
God has called us to be stewards.。
Are you in control?。
Are you going to take control?。
Or are you going to surrender?。
Are you going to give thanks?。
Or are you going to complain?。
Are you going to give away?。
Or are you going to hoard it for yourself?。
That is what the preacher is challenging us today.。
As the band comes up and we are going to sing the song,。
God, I look to you.。
Goodness of God.。
Let's take a moment right now to reflect on our heart and come。
before the Lord.。
And even in repentance.。
God, have I surrendered control to you?。
Or am I full of myself and I want to control things?。
God, am I thankful?。
Or am I complaining?。
God, am I giving away?。
Or am I hoarding for myself?。
Let's reflect on ourselves and our heart.。
And just confess these things before the Lord.。
Let's take a moment.。
[MUSIC]。
