Good evening, everyone.。
It's great to be back.。
How long has it been now?。
Four months, actually.。
People ask, "How come you have such a long maternity leave?"。
I don't.。
It's maternity plus holiday.。
So I'm finally back, and I'm really glad to be here.。
It's the first time I am sharing a message where my baby's out of me.。
Because a few times I think I was pregnant while I was doing it.。
So, yeah, I'm just happy to be here, and I've missed all of you.。
And it was so good that I got to join the retreat, and we got to just hang out for a。
little bit.。
So don't mind my voice.。
It has been like this ever since the baby was born, for obvious reasons.。
Not enough sleep.。
But let us continue today on what we've just seen.。
So today we are on the parables.。
What is this about?。
The tenants.。
And as you just saw, I think it's a parable that we are either quite familiar with, or。
it's not hard to understand.。
Because there was a landlord, and he planted this vineyard where there's a lot of produce.。
But instead of doing it himself, he has hired these other farmers to help him.。
Unfortunately, though, at the time of harvest, when it was the time to give the goods, or。
at least a part of it, back to the landowner, it seemed like they were not willing.。
Because the very first one, what did they do to him?。
Beat him up.。
Yeah.。
And the second one, also, except in a shameful way, according to what the Bible said.。
And the third one as well.。
I mean, we're not quite sure what's the difference between beating someone up and hitting him.。
But all we know is that they've treated them harshly.。
And so the landlord says, "Okay, perhaps I'll send my son.。
They'll respect him, perhaps."。
So he sends his way, and what happens?。
Kills him.。
And so Jesus says this parable, and of course we know it's actually filled with symbols。
and metaphors.。
So let us look at what each of those stand for.。
So the very first one, we're going to the next slide.。
Someone at the slides.。
Oh, there we go.。
All right, so the landlord, yes, baby.。
So the landlord stands for God.。
Okay, he is the landowner.。
And now the tenants, what do they stand for?。
God's people.。
So it could be just the leaders or most likely all of Israelites.。
God's chosen people.。
Now the vineyard, what does it stand for?。
This is the inheritance or the blessing, the favor that God has for his people.。
And the landlord's son, I think this might be obvious, it is on Easter, it is Jesus.。
And who are these other people that eventually, because of what they've done, they will give...。
I'm very distracted by the way.。
What are they going to give them?。
These Gentiles.。
And so these people are actually those that don't belong to the Lord.。
So the Lord is saying, "Since you guys are not giving me the crops that I deserve, I'm。
going to give this land over to these other people, the Gentiles."。
Now the question comes, okay, the important question.。
What does the fruits stand for?。
What do you guys think?。
Any idea?。
What do the fruits stand for in this particular parable?。
No idea?。
The kingdom?。
Okay.。
Any other?。
So what is it?。
Because think about it.。
So the landlord, God, is going to these tenants and he wanted to ask for these fruits.。
So what do you think God is asking of these people?。
Because if we know what God's asking of these people, perhaps we'll know what God is asking。
of us as well.。
So no one...。
No brave soul.。
Okay, good.。
Because if you already know the answer, I guess we can go now, right?。
All right, so let's go through the scripture to see what fruits God is desiring from us.。
Now if we read the scripture in verse 13, it says here, "After sending out the few servants。
with no fruits, then the owner of the vineyard said, 'What shall I do?。
I will send my son whom I love.。
Perhaps they will respect him.'"。
Now could it be possible that all along God wanted from these people were respect?。
Now the gifts or these fruits represented a way for them to show God that they respected。
him.。
Now you might be like, "I'm not really sure if I'm getting this."。
Okay, think about it this way.。
Wives, how many wives do we have here?。
Wives?。
Okay, we've just got a few.。
All right, there you go.。
What is it that we want sometimes?。
How about a flower?。
Not a flower, but a bunch of flowers.。
Maybe jewelry.。
Okay, a small gift from our husbands.。
Why?。
Is it really that we want some flowers?。
Jewelry?。
I mean, yeah, I mean, we wouldn't mind those things at all, right?。
But more is actually the heart that we're looking for.。
The gifts represent the heart.。
And in the same way, these fruits, they're representing the heart behind these tenants.。
And when God says, or it's represented by this landlord, he says, "Perhaps they will。
respect him."。
What God asks of us really is respect.。
Now he begs the question, "Do we respect him?"。
I'm pretty sure we're not going to beat up someone, hopefully, don't beat up anyone who。
works at the church.。
Or you're not going to beat up your brothers and sister?。
And if you're unsure, please come and talk to us afterwards, okay?。
We haven't done that.。
So I mean, are we respecting God just because we haven't hit anybody around us?。
We haven't treated someone badly?。
Is that what it means here?。
What do you guys think?。
Yes or no?。
No.。
So what does it mean then to respect?。
What does that look like?。
Well, maybe we can first look at what it's like to disrespect him.。
Now I have a few questions for you to answer in your heart.。
I mean, do we habitually sleep through sermons?。
All right, everybody's eyes are open at this moment in time.。
Good.。
Because I've just asked that question now.。
Or do we habitually come in worship late or distracted by our phones?。
Or maybe I look like I'm present, but I'm thinking about something else.。
Or we can't find the time to pray, and you know where we end up praying?。
On top of the toilet seat.。
You know, that moment, you know, "Oh, finally, I'm done with this, I'm done with that, I。
guess I've got nothing else better to do.。
You know what?。
I'm going to pray."。
Or how much time do we spend on social media, on our own hobbies?。
Maybe 10 times, 100 times more than we spend with God, praying or reading the Bible with。
him.。
So it really begs the question, do we respect God?。
I mean, do you change appointments with people that you said you would meet up with very。
often?。
Not actually as often as you would change the appointments with God.。
I mean, if we're busy, we're like, "God, you know, I was going to, I planned to talk to。
you and read the Bible at 8, but you know what?。
I overslept, so I've got an appointment at 9.。
I'll make it up later today."。
And then by the time we know it, "Oh, it's 1 a.m.。
God, you know me.。
I'm really tired right now.。
How about tomorrow morning?。
Tomorrow morning?。
All right.。
Tomorrow morning it happens again.。
And what do we know?。
By the time we actually get to him, it's three months down the road."。
But we wouldn't do that to a friend or definitely not to our bosses.。
So what does it say about our respect to God?。
Do we really respect him?。
Now that we know kind of what disrespect kind of looks like, why don't we have a look to。
see in the scripture, how is it that they have disrespected him so that we know how。
we can respect God?。
Because the way we think we're respecting God might be very different.。
Because all these things that I've mentioned, they're just items.。
They're just actions, right?。
I mean, is it wrong to pray on the toilet seat?。
Because now you're like, "I would never pray on the toilet seat again."。
It's good.。
It's not a bad thing, okay?。
So it's not the specific actions that we're talking about here, but it's the heart.。
So let's look at the scripture to see what kind of heart we need to actually respect。
God.。
Now the first servant sent by the owner, I mean, how did he treat him?。
We all mentioned that.。
He didn't give the servants anything.。
Instead, he beat him up.。
Now what do you think was going through the minds of the tenants when they were beating。
up this servant?。
Why would they beat him up?。
Why would you beat up someone sent by a land that you were given to farm?。
Why would you beat him up?。
Thought about that?。
Nope.。
Because you wouldn't beat him up, right?。
Well, the very fact that they beat him up meant that they were not satisfied.。
They were not satisfied with this land.。
"Yeah, sure, I've got a piece of land I can farm on, but you know what?。
I'm not satisfied because I've got to give fruits to this landlord.。
You know what?。
When I'll be satisfied?。
When this land belongs to me, I'll be satisfied."。
So what does it say?。
Do you know that the first path to respecting God is to be content?。
Is to be content.。
Can you see the goodness of whatever it is that you're going through?。
Because if you're not content, you know what?。
You won't be grateful either.。
You'll be holding grudges, and you won't be able to respect God.。
Now you might be going through a tough time, whether it's your job.。
Maybe you're looking for a job.。
There's no job.。
Maybe you're looking for a partner, but there's no partner.。
Maybe you're married and you want to be unmarried.。
So you're going through a tough time, like an illness, and you're like, "When is it that。
I can get better?"。
And it hasn't happened yet.。
And you know what's in our mind?。
We're like, "If only the blank, fill it in, whatever it is that you want happens, I will。
be happy."。
And meanwhile, you know what we'll do?。
We'll ask God.。
Our favorite word is, no, no, our favorite, some people's favorite, not yours, is why?。
Why is this happening to me?。
Why is everyone getting a job and I'm not getting a job?。
Why is everybody's wife so good to me, but my wife, I'm not sure.。
Why?。
Why does everybody is healthy, but I'm not?。
And we always have this question, it's like, "Why, Lord?"。
And actually, the moment we ask why, and the more often we do it, you know what?。
We're discontent.。
We're not satisfied.。
We're not.。
"Give me more, Lord.。
If you're all knowing, if you're all able, why am I stuck in this situation?。
Why haven't you done something yet?"。
And because of that, I want to say is actually a disrespect to our God.。
You might say, though, "Well, I'm not disrespecting God.。
I'm not like complaining against Him.。
I'm just complaining about the situation."。
But if you think in your head, "But wait a minute, God's all knowing, He's all able,。
but I'm stuck here."。
What kind of conclusion are you going to draw?。
You're going to draw a conclusion that maybe God's good to everybody else, but not necessarily。
all that good to you.。
He may be 99.9% good to you.。
And maybe that's what's happening here with the tenants.。
"Yeah, I have a land I can work on.。
But wait, I have to give back something to you.。
If I own it, it'll be okay."。
And actually, that's exactly what happened at the Garden of Eden.。
What happened there?。
God gave Adam and Eve all the fruits and all the trees.。
They can eat from all of them except one tree, but that's the tree they want.。
Actually today, I'm going to share with you about a man named Nick.。
I cannot pronounce his last name.。
You show the photo because someone can't help me.。
Vigidi, yes.。
Go to John afterwards to ask for his last name or Google this.。
Now, he is a man, as you see, without arms and legs.。
And he was born like that.。
And actually, when he was around 10 years old, he was in so much pain that he attempted。
suicide.。
And he was born in a Christian family, and he asked God all the time, "God, why can't。
I have arms and legs?"。
Which is a very valid question, don't you think?。
Everybody else has it.。
And so all he ever wanted was arms and legs.。
So he would pray every day, "God, please give me arms and legs."。
And then he'll fall asleep.。
And the next day he wakes up, I'm like, "Oh, have I grown arms and legs?"。
No.。
He was very, very disappointed.。
And he said, "God, why?。
Why?"。
And actually, he said, "One day," which is at a meeting that I actually met him face。
to face in a big hall.。
And he said, "One day," he said, "You know what?。
I thought that if I have arms and legs, I'll be happy and content.。
But then I look around.。
Everybody else has arms and legs, and there's so many of them that are upset.。
They might even have depression."。
So he realized it's not the arms and the legs that make someone content and happy.。
And he says, "If I have God, and if God is giving me this, I shall be content."。
And from that day forward, never again did he think about committing suicide.。
And you know what?。
Now he has become a world-renowned motivational speaker.。
And he has helped so many people with disabilities, people who are going through hardships.。
And you know what?。
That was the situation that God allowed him to be.。
And it actually allowed him to glorify God.。
He helped so many people.。
And so in the same way, can we be content?。
Maybe there's something that you still want God to give you to do.。
But can we be content in that moment in time?。
Now I don't want to dismiss and say, "Oh, but I'm in so much pain."。
Of course.。
God never said that it's not painful.。
But during...。
I mean, can you imagine not having arms and legs?。
Is that easy?。
I mean, for some people who are going through divorce, is that easy?。
For some people who cannot find a job for a very long time, or have a boss that gives。
you a hard time every day, is that easy?。
No.。
And we're not saying that we're going to dismiss all of those.。
But we are saying in the midst, if we can hold on to the fact that all things work together。
for those who love God, just like Nick, then we can be content.。
Now let's read on to see when the second servant, as we see, it was sent, and we can read about。
it in verse 11.。
Now the tenants beat him, and he treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed.。
Now you know in those times, when they're talking about killing of these messengers,。
they're really meaning like prophets that have came ahead, or messengers for God that。
they have despised and even killed, or they didn't listen to them.。
So really in here, we're seeing that not only are they beating the servants up, but that。
they're treating them shamefully.。
Now the second path to respecting God is to embrace God.。
Do you embrace God and his words?。
Or do you find that to be shameful?。
What do I mean by that?。
I mean, let's say you're with some coworkers or your friends.。
Do you pray quietly just so they are not aware that you're a Christian?。
Would you do that?。
Or when something happens, would you out loud and say, "Oh, praise the Lord.。
He has helped me."。
Or are you going to go, "Praise the Lord.。
Don't let anybody know I'm a Christian."。
Or when something that your friends or your peers are doing is wrong, will you come and。
say, "Hey, you know, the Bible actually teaches us not to."。
I mean, not in a way where we're judging others, but in a way where you share what you believe.。
Would we do that?。
Or we're like, "Oh, let's not rock the boat."。
Or maybe even when the Bible tells us, "Pray for those who are sick."。
Are you willing to go and pray?。
Or do you secretly think in your heart, "Wait a minute.。
If I pray and that person never gets better, it kind of looks bad on me.。
Should I still do that?"。
Do you find his word shameful?。
Or do you find his word being the truth?。
I don't know if he's going to get better, but God says, "I can pray and he can be healed.。
I'm going to go."。
God says, "I can share the gospel."。
And then that person would believe.。
And rather or not he believes or not, it's not up to me.。
It's up to God.。
I'm not shameful about it.。
I'm going to tell Jesus.。
I'm going to tell other people about Jesus.。
And they are going to say, "You're so low-toe."。
You know what low-toe?。
John, what's that?。
Outdated.。
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.。
Probably not.。
So people are going to think, "Oh, don't stop telling me about...。
Stop talking about Jesus.。
It's so outdated."。
But will we still want to share at the right times?。
So it really makes us think, are we shameful of the cross?。
Or are we so proud of it?。
Are you proud of it?。
Are you proud to tell people, "I'm a Christian"?。
Are you proud to tell people, "Yeah, I mean, I don't fool around with men or women"?。
Are you proud to tell people about your belief and what you do?。
Now I think one of the prophets that are just a great example is the prophet Daniel.。
Now prophet Daniel, he was somebody who prayed to the Lord every day for three times.。
And his rival knew about it and wanted to trap him.。
So they persuaded the king to say, "Oh, you know, anyone who doesn't just worship you,。
you should kill him."。
And the king thought, "Oh, that's a great idea.。
Let's do that."。
And so he has put in an order, "I will kill anybody who worships other people or gods."。
And what does Daniel do?。
He opens the window so everybody can see him, and he prays to the Lord three times a day.。
He is proud of God, and even meaning to take his life will not stop him from being proud。
of this God.。
Are we proud?。
Are we willing to tell everybody, "We're Christian.。
I follow Jesus"?。
Or will we be like the tenants, finding it to be shameful?。
Now as we read on to the third one, we see that this time they've beat him, and then。
the landlord sends his son.。
And then eventually he kills him.。
Now this one you might be thinking, "Aha, this time, I'm sure we've got it right, because。
we haven't killed Jesus.。
It's not us, okay?。
It's got nothing to do with us.。
We did not kill Jesus.。
We did not kill the son that was sent by God."。
And I'm not saying you did, but what does it say, what does it mean when the tenants。
killed the son?。
What kind of heart did he have?。
What kind of heart is that?。
It means that it's a total rejection, it's a total way of saying, "I don't want to have。
anything to do with you.。
I want you out of my life, out of my sight, never to come back dead."。
That's what killing means.。
Do not be involved with me.。
Now you're like saying, "But we're all, well, most of us here are Christians.。
So what does that have to do with us?。
How is that disrespecting?。
I'm not going to do that."。
I want to say the third path to respecting God is to invite God, is to invite him into。
every part of your life.。
I mean, it's one thing to say we're Christians and live in our own way, and it's another。
thing entirely to be Christians and invite God to be in every aspect, every decision。
you make.。
Okay, maybe not the ones where you're going to do char siu fan or the cup noodles, okay?。
But the decisions, the big ones.。
Which school would you go to?。
Which courses would you take?。
Should I date this person?。
What businesses should I go into?。
How can I glorify God?。
I'm in a broken relationship right now.。
How do I restore it?。
Would you use your way or God's way?。
And here we say invite God.。
It's not just a matter of, you know how we usually do it?。
"God, I've got this business issue.。
Can you help me fix it?"。
And by the way, I'm really tired, so I'm going to go to bed now.。
Good night.。
Or we have another issue.。
"Oh, I'm fighting with my husband or wife.。
You know what?。
Please help me take care of it.。
Good night."。
I mean, what do we usually do most of the time?。
It seems like we just throw the problem at God and say, "Okay, what should I do about。
it?。
By the way, I didn't hear anything, so I'm just going to go about my own ways, and I'm。
just going to do what I think is best."。
So what does it mean to invite God?。
How can we invite God into our lives?。
Not just by asking a question, "How do I solve this?。
How do I do that?。
Should I do this?"。
And most of us will say, "Well, I didn't hear God.。
I'm not quite sure what he wants me to do."。
Right?。
But what does it mean actually to invite God?。
It actually has an action to go with it.。
If you really desire to know what God wants you to do, you're actually going to put aside。
time.。
Not just asking a question, not even saying, "Lord, fill me up," and then go and play your。
video games or play tennis.。
Right?。
That's for me.。
But instead, what do we do?。
We'll spend time.。
We're going to start reading on it to see what does the Bible say about businesses.。
What does the Bible say about marriages?。
What does the Bible say about forgiveness?。
What does the Bible say about workplace?。
We're going to go in there and then study the word.。
And also, we can talk to other people we think that loves God and are able to understand。
his words.。
We can read a book on it or watch a YouTube so that we could understand what God's heart。
is.。
Honestly, it's not good enough for us to just ask and leave it there because that's not。
really involving God.。
That's just a way for us to think we're involving God.。
But instead, we need to put that time in.。
Does God change the decisions you make?。
I want to ask that question again.。
Does God change the decisions you make?。
Or do you make a decision and then ask God to fit in it and say, "Yeah, I think God said。
yes."。
Yeah.。
I mean, that was a pretty lady there.。
I think God said yes.。
I think she blinked at me.。
I think that was a yes.。
If we continue to live our lives the way we want to and not actually involving God in。
it, then I'm worried.。
I am worried because it might mean that we're not respecting him.。
And in this scripture, what happens to those that don't respect him?。
He will then give the inheritance to someone else.。
And now, today we're celebrating Easter, Good Friday, Sunday, when the resurrection happens.。
Today we looked at three points to see how we can respect God.。
It is to be content, to embrace God, not to be shameful about it, and to invite God.。
And you know what?。
Jesus on the cross has actually done the exact same thing for us.。
Do you know that God is content with you?。
God is content with you.。
There is nothing more that you do, nothing less that you do, that will make him love。
you any more or less.。
He is content with who you are.。
And he takes you as you are.。
He doesn't say, "Oh yeah, maybe when John, when he criticizes less, yeah, I'll love him."。
Or he doesn't say, "Yeah, when Johnny takes up an extra sport, I'll love him more."。
Maybe it's the other way around, but no, no, right?。
Or maybe he won't say, "Yeah, when Michelle reads a few more chapters of Bible a day,。
yeah, I will be pleased."。
No.。
Then why are we treating God like that?。
Why are we saying that, "God, if you only give me that, then I'll love you, then I'll。
trust you, I'll believe you."。
Why are we treating God like that when he's not treating us like that?。
He has already loved us the way we are, including the mistakes that you've made, including the。
regrets that you didn't want to do.。
He loves you.。
And if he has already done it on the cross to be content with you, let us return that。
by being content with God, being content in the situation that he has given to you.。
And the second thing is embracing God, and God has already embraced us.。
Do you know how he has done that?。
Instead of shamefully saying, which he could, "What a sinner you are.。
How could you have said that?。
How could you have done that?。
That was immoral.。
That was wrong.。
You're a sinner, a failure."。
You know what?。
God doesn't do that.。
He never for a moment shames us.。
I mean, most of us will remember the story where there was a woman involved in the adultery.。
Everybody wanted to stone her, but what does Jesus do?。
Jesus doesn't say anything.。
He just says, "Just don't do it anymore.。
Your sins are forgiven."。
God never shames us, then why are we ashamed of the gospel?。
Why is it that we find it, you know, "Let's not share with that person about Jesus.。
It'll look bad on me."。
But God's not like that.。
And lastly, I'm asking us to invite God in our lives, but you know what?。
What he has done on the cross, he has invited us into eternity, into the banquet where we。
will sit with him.。
What kind of an invitation is that?。
What kind of an invitation is that?。
You and I both have it, because Jesus died on the cross, and we're invited to talk to。
God now.。
We're invited to sit with him.。
We're invited into eternity.。
And we are not even willing to invite him, to ask him, "Oh, what shall I do with my career?。
What shall I do with my broken relationship?。
What shall I do with my child that I'm trying to raise up?。
What shall I do?"。
Won't you invite him into your life?。
Because he has already invited you into eternity, invited you to a banquet that we were never。
fit to go into.。
I think it really begs the question, do we respect God?。
And I really hope that we are content with whatever it is that we're going through, knowing。
that God is here.。
If he has allowed it, there's some good that will come out of it.。
To not be shameful of the gospel, and to invite God at all times into our lives.。
Actually, could I invite the band to come up as they play?。
I want to extend an invitation to you.。
My very first invitation is to those who has never committed their lives to Jesus.。
On this Easter day, I want to invite you.。
I want to invite you to ask Jesus to forgive you of your sins, which he has already done。
on the cross, and ask him to be your Lord and Savior.。
Because he has already sent out that invitation.。
He has asked, "Would you, my child, whom I love, whom I'm content with, will you come。
so that I could be your Lord?。
I could take care of you.。
I could love you and have a relationship with you."。
Is there anybody here tonight who hasn't done that yet?。
I give you just a moment.。
If that is in your heart, "Yeah, I heard about Jesus sometime.。
I might have even gone to church for a while.。
But I'm not really quite sure if I've committed myself to him."。
But if today you say, "I want to receive Jesus.。
I want to receive the love that he has for me.。
I want to answer to the invitation to eternity, forgiveness of sin."。
May I ask you to just put your hand up wherever you're sitting.。
Is there anybody like that?。
God has extended his invitation to you.。
You can put your hand up at where you're sitting and you say, "Lord, I'm taking on this invitation.。
I want to be with the God who created the universe, who sent his son to die for my sins。
so that I might live."。
Is there anybody here that would want to receive this invitation?。
The gospel is something that we're proud of, not ashamed of.。
Is there anybody?。
We just want to pray for you, if that is you.。
Now I want to extend another invitation.。
I want to invite those who after hearing the parable of the tenants, who saw ourselves。
at times when we're not content.。
At times when we even wonder if God really loves us.。
And those who are ashamed of the gospel, who have shied away many times to even tell people。
that they're Christians.。
And those who feel like they've really disrespected God in some time, but are now willing to just。
embrace God, to follow his ways.。
Re-committing that heart, inviting God to take over all the aspects of your life.。
Maybe there were times when you didn't, but you want to now.。
Would you put up your hand to show us, to show the Lord that you're willing to be content。
with him, to embrace him, to be involved in every part of your life.。
I see your hand.。
I see your hand.。
Is there anyone else?。
Tell God, I want to respect you.。
All that you've done on the cross for me.。
I want to repay you.。
Not in any monetary sense.。
I want to give you my heart.。
Dear Heavenly Father, oh the God of the universe, you love us so.。
How is it possible that you send your beloved son, seeing how the tenants have already beat。
up one after another, and yet you're willing.。
Father, we pray that, forgive us when we were not content, when we're angry at you, when。
we misunderstood you, to be someone who doesn't love us enough.。
Forgive us, Father.。
Forgive us the times when we were ashamed of the gospel.。
Don't even want to spend time on it, or your words.。
Forgive us when we just live our lives without you really being involved at all.。
Are we really doing things any different than if we had not said that we believe in you?。
Father, we pray, help us to desire you more.。
Help us to see that you are what we want.。
Help us, Father, to follow your ways all the days of our lives.。
Let us be content, because we have Jesus.。
What else will make us content?。
So Father, tonight we come before you, offering our hearts to you once again.。
Thank you for loving us the way you do.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
(gentle music)。
