Good evening, everybody.。
I love traveling on the MTR.。
Besides the privilege as an old man of traveling for $2, no, $1.90, it is generally the fastest。
way to get from A to B in Hong Kong.。
Sandra and I used it tonight.。
For me, one of the greatest things about our MTR system, it is well signposted.。
There is always a clear way out.。
If we come to Admiralty Station, whether I want to go to Star Street or Lippo Center,。
there is a clearly marked exit.。
Even here at KFCI, we have a clearly marked exit.。
See ya.。
My message tonight is simple.。
The main way out is to stay out.。
Shall I repeat that?。
The main way out is to stay out.。
Back again.。
I have a confession.。
I dream a lot these days.。
I mean, after all, the Bible says, doesn't it, old man, dream dreams.。
I dream a lot these days.。
I must say that my dreams are usually not like spooky dreams or nightmares.。
My dreams are not usually eureka moments.。
They're not usually, although sometimes deep spiritual revelations.。
I want to take you back a few weeks ago.。
I was in a deep sleep.。
I dreamt I was in a sort of jungle area.。
I was in full hiking gear, you know, sponsored by North Face, with a well-packed rucksack。
on my back.。
The going was tough.。
And in my dream, I was all alone.。
I didn't notice I'd strayed into some sandy-looking terrain.。
The ground felt spongy.。
For one step, two step, suddenly, it gave way.。
I was up to my knees in quicksand.。
And the picture will show you that Indiana Jones knows all about it.。
It's wet.。
It's shifting.。
I was stuck and very slowly going down.。
I shouted for help.。
Thank goodness I didn't wake Sandra.。
But no one was around.。
I fought to free myself, but I couldn't reach anything to lift myself up.。
I didn't even have a snake like Indiana Jones.。
Very soon, I was trapped up to my thighs.。
And I was slowly continuing to sink.。
I was trapped.。
I was panicking.。
Another hour goes by.。
Another hour.。
Still another hour.。
I seem to remember in my dream that the sun was scorching overhead.。
I vowed not to give up.。
But I was growing exhausted.。
The harder I fought, the more the quicksand weighed me down.。
Now I'd heard somewhere that struggling only makes you sink faster.。
So even I kid you not, as I lay in my bed, I was trying to be still.。
But it was past my waist now.。
My body was firmly wedged in the trap.。
Another hour goes by.。
And another hour.。
It was up to my chest.。
I barely had the energy to kick anymore.。
I could hardly move.。
Now you might describe this dream as a bit of a nightmare.。
But fortunately, the alarm went off.。
Shortly after, it was time for work.。
Now here's a startling fact about quicksand.。
Due to the physics of shifting sand and weight distribution, the grains of sand that you。
trap almost always jam up and bind together before you sink too far.。
It's a phenomenon that's caused any scientists here.。
It's called force chain.。
And unlike what you see in the movies, you won't suddenly be sucked in over your head.。
In the real world, you could sink a long way down, particularly if you struggle.。
And yes, you definitely can die in the quicksand.。
Yet people seldom die from sinking and suffocation as you might think.。
Instead, what do they die from?。
They die from exhaustion.。
From the effects of desperation and exposure.。
They die because they wear themselves out, desperately trying to escape.。
Now what has this got to do with our sermon?。
Wow.。
When it comes to fighting sin, the same can be true.。
Many of us are floundering in poor choices.。
For years, we've battled against the spiral of sin and temptation that Johnny told us。
about.。
We've been battling as though it were quicksand.。
But what it's doing, it is sucking us down.。
We keep struggling, but we can't seem to climb onto solid ground.。
Now in desperation, we lapse, we panic, we lapse into spiritual exhaustion.。
It seems no matter what we try, we can't free ourselves.。
And it feels like we've reached a point that we can't fight anymore.。
And you identify with this because I can.。
We're about an inch from giving up.。
But guess what?。
You do not need to be swallowed up in the quicksand of sin.。
Can I say it again?。
You do not need to be swallowed up in the quicksand of sin.。
Surrounded, clothed, secure, new.。
These are four words to describe a Christ follower.。
We just sang it.。
By the way, you sang it beautifully.。
We just sang it.。
You have victory in Christ.。
Jesus has already won.。
Hebrews 12, 2 says,。
He is seated in the place of victory at the right hand of God.。
And when eternity unfolds, Jesus will not return to earth to fight sin again.。
He will return as the ultimate victor.。
Now because Jesus has already won the victory over sin,。
you have access to that victory too.。
You are freed from sin's quicksand by living in your new identity.。
Sin, temptation and a poor fort life don't need to hold you down.。
The power to live freely comes from your close association with Christ and His victory.。
Let's pause on that for a moment.。
The power to live freely comes from your close association with Christ and His victory.。
Now let me be clear how the battle isn't won because pressure lifts from our life。
or because circumstances change.。
Week after week, we have seen this in Psalm 23 verses 4 and 5.。
Verse 4 tells us we will still walk through dark valleys.。
We will walk through dark valleys our entire life.。
Verse 5 says, we will still sit at the table and be surrounded by our enemies.。
Remember in week one, I got you, you are the enemies.。
We will still sit for the rest of our life at this table and be surrounded by our enemies.。
The battle is won by who it is who walks with us through the dark valley。
and who it is who sits at the table with us when we are surrounded by trouble and by our enemies.。
Now what does it mean to be associated with Christ and His victory?。
Let us use Scripture to unpack this concept.。
For a start, I put on the screen 2 Corinthians 5 17 says we are in Christ.。
It says we are a new creation.。
Galatians 3 26 to 27 says that we are clothed.。
We are clothed with Christ.。
It means that Jesus makes us brand new and we are completely enfolded by the righteousness of Christ.。
Colossians 3 3 tells us our lives are hidden with Christ.。
Now what I mean by that, Sandra and I have some important documents at home.。
They are locked in a filing box and that box is stored in a secret location。
at the top of a cupboard in our bedroom.。
I guess it's not secret anymore.。
But what I'm saying is that our brand new righteousness isn't fleeting.。
It's protected and safe like our filing box.。
Train your mind, train your heart to believe that you are a new creation.。
Your righteousness is safe because of that.。
And there's more in Ephesians 2 6.。
God raised us up with Christ and seated us in the heavenly places.。
That means that we are united with Christ in victory.。
Whatever Jesus has won, we have won.。
God Almighty took on the role of a human who took the weight of the world's sins on the cross.。
Jesus suffered and died and was raised to life again.。
That is what has won the battle.。
1 Corinthians 15 57 says, "Thanks be to God."。
He gives us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.。
My friend, train your mind and your heart to see yourself as victorious in Christ.。
When temptations threaten us, which they will do,。
we first become free by changing our perspectives.。
Instead of floundering in the quicksand of sin and temptation for the rest of our lives,。
we change how we think.。
We take responsibility for what happens in our minds.。
And we say, "I am in Christ and Christ is in me.。
I am a brand new creation.。
Christ is the victor and I can adopt a mindset that sees me walking in all the victory Jesus has won for me."。
Your new mindset tells you that God is faithful.。
You remind yourself of this truth.。
You remind yourself and you remind yourself again.。
This constant reminding begins to change the old patterns,。
the patterns that led you to defeat.。
Sin is not the end of the story anymore.。
Faithful God promised a way out, an exit, a way out of temptation.。
True to His promise, He provides the way out。
so that you can and you will escape this temptation.。
You can walk through the dark valleys.。
You can sit at the presence of your enemies。
with a different way of thinking about what God has for you.。
1 John 5, 4 says, "Everyone born of God overcomes the world."。
I can hear what you're saying.。
I understand that.。
You know, but wise guy, how do we do it?。
You always tell me in church what to do, but you don't tell me how to do it.。
How do I refuse the enemy to be a seat at my table?。
Well, you must start.。
You must start from this place of identity.。
Jesus has already won your struggle.。
And because those of you who are Christ followers are joined with Him,。
something powerful must have already happened.。
Whatever He has won, you have won.。
Since Christ has victory, you have access to that victory right now.。
You are not fighting the battle against sin in your own strength.。
Look at Philippians 3.10, I'll put it on the screen.。
You are tapping into the engine of God's resurrection power.。
It really isn't very complicated.。
It all boils down to God's faithfulness.。
Look again at this verse, 1 Corinthians 10, 13.。
"No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man."。
We are all tempted.。
We're all in the same boat.。
God is faithful and will not let you be tempted beyond your ability.。
But with the temptation, He will also provide a way out, an exit sign,。
a way of escape that you may be able to endure it.。
It's that straightforward.。
It's so straightforward, I want to read it again.。
"No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man."。
God is faithful and He will not let you be tempted beyond your ability.。
But with the temptation, He will also provide the way of escape。
that you'll be able to enjoy it.。
My friends, God is faithful.。
When you rely on Him, He will provide a way out.。
I want to push this a little bit further.。
When you face temptation, it's like you're staring at a big closed door.。
The door is unlocked and on the other side of the door is sin,。
some sort of harmful living.。
Many believers look at that door and don't believe they have any power。
to keep the door shut.。
They believe that it must open the door marked temptation and walk through it.。
They don't feel like they have a choice.。
I actually believe that a big part of the problem is found in the church。
and some of the stuff that we teach.。
So much of today's church teaching is what I call flawed identity theology.。
Now, here's the big revelation.。
We are not simply sinners saved by grace.。
We must change this distorted thinking.。
We are not simply beggars helping other beggars to find bread.。
We are not simply come to the cross with nothing to offer.。
Now, true, this may be and indeed should be the starting point,。
but it's not the whole story and it's not our true identity if we are in Christ.。
We are not just a big bunch of sinners.。
Yet the problem is we hear this and variations of this over and over。
in today's churches.。
Pastors say something like, "Hi, welcome to church today.。
We're so glad you're here.。
Please sit down and enjoy today's service.。
Never forget you're a sinner.。
That's all you are.。
You came to Jesus with empty hands.。
That's all you ever offer Him.。
You're clutching filthy rags.。
You're a worm.。
You're a wretch, a mocker, a scoffer, unclean.。
You're always in rebellion against God.。
You're utterly devoid of value.。
You're only a sinner saved by grace.。
And if you ever forget it, remember how you sinned this morning。
and you sinned last night and actually you sinned 10 minutes ago.。
That's all you ever do.。
Okay, let's stand and sing.。
See you again next Sunday.。
Now, I admit this is more than a little bit OTT.。
But have you ever heard something like this?。
And I'm sure we all have.。
It's horrible identity theology.。
When you hear it, it's hard to do anything else except nod。
and say to yourself, "Yes, I guess it's true."。
When you walk up to the big door, mark temptation,。
you don't stand a chance.。
You open the door and walk through it。
since that's what you've been conditioned to do.。
You don't think you have any options。
except to wallow in the sin that is on the other side。
because you've been following a partial gospel.。
Now, let me be clear.。
Whilst it is true that after we begin to follow Jesus,。
our hearts are still capable of sinning.。
Yet Jesus has made them brand new.。
His Word, Ezekiel.。
God said this,。
"I will give you a new heart and a new spirit。
I will put in you.。
And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh。
and give you a heart of flesh."。
Now we can get confused on this issue。
because even after we are new creations,。
we still have capacity to sin.。
All of us.。
You don't need me to tell you this.。
But you don't need a sermon like the one I referred to earlier。
you know it only too well.。
What you do need to hear is this.。
Sinner is no longer your identity.。
Sinner is no longer your identity.。
So we stare at the door that's marked temptation.。
We need to remind ourselves。
that we were crucified with Christ。
and we don't need to live the way we used to.。
Galatians 2.20 says,。
"The life you live now is by faith。
because Christ lives in you."。
When you became a believer,。
you were baptised into Christ Jesus。
which means you identified with His death,。
His burial and His resurrection.。
We will be celebrating this on August the 28th。
at Repulse Bay Beach.。
Paul says this to the Romans,。
"We were buried therefore with Him by baptism into death.。
In order that just as Christ was raised from the dead。
by the glory of the Father,。
we too may walk in the newness of life."。
That's who you are today.。
You don't need to walk through the door。
that's called temptation.。
In short,。
you are a saint.。
Does it surprise you。
that the Bible calls you a saint?。
Maybe you hear the word。
and you think about people like Mother Teresa.。
You know, she was a saint, but me on the other hand.。
But it's true.。
This is how you are referred to in Scripture.。
Saint simply means you are a holy one.。
And can I tell you,。
there are more than 40 verses in the New Testament。
that call us saints.。
In Christ, you have been forgiven all sins,。
past, present and future.。
You have a righteous standing before God.。
You are clothed in the righteousness of His Son, Jesus.。
Don't walk through the door, temptation.。
You are a saint.。
And here is a list of some saints.。
I bet you've never been to any of their churches.。
Look.。
If I've missed your name, sorry.。
Saints.。
Saints, can I call you that?。
I need to tell you something.。
There is always a way out.。
Let's go back to my Admiralty MTR station.。
I love it, you know I do, right?。
Red line, blue line, little green line, light green line。
and soon to be added, sharting line.。
Suppose it was your first time there.。
You're a visitor.。
Do you remember visitors?。
It's what we used to have in the past, right?。
You know, you're a visitor.。
It's confusing, but eventually because of the exit signs,。
we will eventually see daylight.。
God offers us similar signage.。
He is always faithful.。
He is always true.。
Let's look at Corinthians 1:10 again.。
No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man.。
God is faithful and He will not let you be tempted。
beyond your ability.。
But with the temptation,。
He will also provide the way of escape。
that you may be able to endure it.。
If you want a way out, God is faithful.。
The Holy Spirit will give you a way out.。
And then the Holy Spirit will give you another way out.。
And in His mercy, He will give you another way out.。
The doorways may become smaller and smaller。
the further you go along.。
The way out is more difficult to take。
because you're further along the pathway。
and the potential consequences。
if you opt not to take the way out become more serious.。
I wanna tell you about a story happened in my life。
in the late 80s.。
I went on a business trip to Taiwan.。
We were looking to expand business up there。
and this gentleman took us up.。
He was gonna introduce us so many contacts in Taiwan。
and during the day we had so many business meetings.。
And I could just tell from the tenor。
of the way he was going。
that the evening was gonna be difficult。
because he was expecting to go and play.。
And I'd heard about what people do when they play in Taiwan。
and I'm really praying desperately about this.。
And anyway, there were three of us.。
We went out to dinner.。
We started talking about this。
and I'm thinking, "God, there's gotta be a way out of this."。
And so after dinner, we got into a taxi。
and I thought, "Here we go."。
The first stop of the taxi was my hotel.。
He said, "We thought we'd drop you off first。
"so that we could go out."。
So actually, while I don't know。
what these two guys were doing in Taiwan,。
but whatever they were doing,。
I was in my room with Fox movies。
or whatever it was, HBO with a cold beer.。
God had given me a way out of that situation.。
I did not want to go down that route.。
And if we look closely,。
the opportunities to take the way out are still there.。
If you're in a situation at the moment,。
the opportunities to take a way out are still there.。
I mean, the first doorway might be a regular sized door。
that you find in any house.。
The second door might be a pet sized door。
that people cut for, let their dog or cat out.。
The third doorway is maybe a teeny tiny Barbie house doorway。
that only your smartphone will slide through.。
But you can still win the battle.。
You don't have to give the enemy a seat at your table.。
You can get out.。
The other way, the other main out, way out,。
is to simply stop gazing at the doormark temptation.。
Go in a different direction completely.。
Exchange the doormark temptation。
for a door marked invitation.。
Focus on a different door, the door of Christ.。
I wanna read this from Hebrews.。
Therefore, since we are surrounded。
by so great a cloud of witnesses,。
let us also lay aside every weight and sin。
which clings so closely and let us run with endurance。
the race that is set before us,。
looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith,。
who for the joy that was set before Him,。
endured the cross, despising the shame。
and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.。
My friends, the core message of the gospel is not don't sin,。
which is often preached。
'cause it lands with a bit of a punch, right?。
It's good for preachers to preach don't sin.。
But the message of the cross is less about don't sin。
and much more come walk with me.。
Can you see that?。
The gospel message is that through the work of Christ,。
our sins are forgiven.。
We are new creations。
and we can step into a relationship with God.。
Jesus offers us abundant life, which means life to the full.。
Let's go back to Psalm 23.。
The point of this Psalm is that God promises to guide you.。
Just as sheep learn to recognise the voice of the shepherd,。
we are all given the ability to hear the voice of Christ.。
We can see what the shepherd is doing.。
We can rest in the shepherd's care.。
We can move in step with the shepherds.。
As you live closely with Jesus, you can trust God.。
You can look at your life.。
I know I have and seen the times He's carried you,。
the times He's pulled you close,。
the times He's kept you out of danger,。
navigated you through.。
Intimacy with God is the way to true fulfilment.。
How do you keep the enemy from sitting at your table?。
You keep your eyes on the enemy.。
You keep your eyes on Christ.。
This is where Adam and Eve went wrong.。
They knew what it was like to walk with God.。
They were made in the image of God.。
They knew what it was like to have a relationship with God。
and to do God's work on earth with God.。
That was the larger gospel as Adam and Eve understood it.。
And there was a definite command, don't sin.。
But there was a larger good news that said,。
come and enjoy God.。
That larger gospel is extended to you today.。
If you are a Christian, you're saved.。
But has God been more to you than a command not to sin?。
Is God larger to you than a ticket to heaven when you die?。
Oh, it's good you're saved.。
It's good you're forgiven.。
It's good you're going to heaven.。
Yet beyond that truth,。
God is greatly interested in you knowing Him.。
He's interested in Him, you knowing Him right now。
before you get to heaven.。
I wanna ask you a question.。
How well do you actually know God?。
There should be a picture on the screen.。
When you are on a pathway to knowing God,。
it means you set your heart, mind and purpose。
in that direction.。
When you begin to learn His Word, the Bible,。
you get to know Him and His character.。
When you walk with Him in continual prayer,。
you learn His ways, His words,。
His ways and character fill your life.。
Do you have a need for worth?。
Do you have a need for significance,。
for purpose, for love, for peace,。
for the closest kind of companionship,。
for calm in the midst of a storm?。
My friends, it is Jesus who fulfills those needs.。
But they are all the same needs。
that the enemy is exploiting.。
When you feel down, it's usually because。
that those needs of yours are not being met.。
And then just then the enemy comes along and whispers,。
"If you want to feel better,。
go through this door marked temptation.。
Does this doormat mark temptation?。
I'll give you a thrill.。
I'll give you a rush of adrenaline."。
My friends, nothing can satisfy your heart like God.。
Nothing keeps you from sin。
better than keeping your eyes on Christ.。
Walking with God, you discover your true identity,。
worth and purpose.。
That's where you discover you can trust God.。
I wanna finish by talking about baby zebras.。
Apologies if you come from America, baby zebras.。
What zebras or zebras do with their young,。
when a mama zebra gives birth,。
the first thing she does is to take her child away。
from the rest of the herd for a while.。
Because the mother wants her child to learn to know her.。
Now to the untrained eye, I'm sure the same as me,。
zebras look the same, right?。
Even baby zebras have been known to mix up who their mum is.。
But every zebra has a unique pattern of markings。
on its head and face.。
When mother zebra takes her baby away like that,。
the baby learns to identify exactly who her mother is.。
The child can see and hear its mother.。
It begins to recognise its mother's individual markings.。
Weeks and weeks, it's just mother and child,。
mother and child, mother and child, mother and child.。
Soon enough, the baby zebra is brought back to the herd.。
The baby has learned a remarkable discernment.。
It can see all those other animals that look and sound。
and smell almost the same.。
And it can say, "Ah, not that one.。
Not that one.。
Not that one.。
Ah, that one."。
Now, why do I talk about zebras?。
That is the level of familiarity and recognition.。
It's where God wants you to be with Him.。
God wants you to know Him without a doubt.。
The enemy wants to lead you astray so he can destroy you.。
But Jesus wants you to know the voice of the Father,。
God's voice, to recognise God and to trust God.。
The quicksand has no more power.。
The door marked temptation has no more appeal.。
You are set free.。
You can win the battle for your mind.。
My friends, you are invited to deeply。
and closely know God.。
Can we have the band back, please?。
(sighing)。
A question you might be asking yourself.。
(soft piano music)。
What do I do now?。
I want you to think of that baby zebra for a minute.。
That baby zebra knows who her mum is.。
It's mum.。
It won't be fooled by imitations.。
My heart tonight is that we would know exactly how God is。
and who He is.。
And that we would run to Him。
just as that baby zebra would run to its mum.。
(soft piano music)。
I wanna give an opportunity for anyone here。
who is watching online。
who maybe yet would say they're not yet a Christ follower.。
(soft piano music)。
I wanna give you an opportunity tonight。
to surrender your life to Jesus Christ.。
(soft piano music)。
I wanna give you an opportunity tonight。
to surrender your life to Jesus Christ.。
(soft piano music)。
Here's the one who went to the cross。
(soft piano music)。
and died a sinner's death so that you could be free.。
(soft piano music)。
I wanna give you an opportunity tonight。
to surrender your life to Jesus Christ.。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
I just wonder if you would pray with me.。
(soft piano music)。
Dear Jesus,。
I come to you now。
because I've tried to find the way out,。
but it keeps leading me back to the same place.。
(soft piano music)。
Thank you that you went to the cross for me.。
(soft piano music)。
Thank you, Lord, I don't have to look。
at the doormark temptation。
because there's a doormark invitation.。
And I choose tonight to walk through that door。
called invitation.。
(soft piano music)。
I surrender my life.。
Come into my life.。
Forgive my sins.。
(soft piano music)。
And help me to live the life。
that deep down I've always wanted to live.。
(soft piano music)。
A life of freedom。
because I know the victory is yours.。
(soft piano music)。
Amen.。
If you prayed that prayer tonight,。
please tell someone if you're online,。
maybe drop us an email.。
(soft piano music)。
For the rest of us, can we stand?。
(soft piano music)。
I just really got four words。
for us tonight。
in terms of what God is telling us to do.。
And they're very simple.。
Run to the Father.。
Run to the Father.。
There you'll find acceptance.。
(soft piano music)。
There you'll find the love you were looking for.。
You don't need to go through the doormark temptation。
to find love.。
Run to the Father.。
(soft piano music)。
There you'll find the worth。
that you've been looking for.。
You don't need to go running。
through that door.。
(soft piano music)。
You don't need to keep looking at people in the world。
that so-called made it,。
the rich, the famous,。
beautiful.。
At least it's beauty portrayed on a magazine。
or a social media site.。
You can find all of those things。
at the heart of the Father。
because actually at the heart of the Father,。
there is a Son, Jesus.。
(soft piano music)。
Who loved you and died for you.。
(soft piano music)。
Can you just open your hands in front of you?。
(soft piano music)。
Father, I pray that tonight。
we would know what acceptance is.。
We would know what love is.。
We would know what worth is.。
(soft piano music)。
And Lord, that you show each one of us we have a choice.。
(soft piano music)。
We pray in the Lord's prayer,。
deliver us from evil.。
For yours is the kingdom, the power and the glory.。
(soft piano music)。
Lord, help us in the times of trial.。
Help us in the times of temptations.。
Help us in the times when we're walking。
through the dark valley.。
Help us in the times when the enemy。
is trying to sit at our table.。
(soft piano music)。
I choose tonight。
to run to the Father。
and to find His acceptance.。
(soft piano music)。
Let's sing that together as a church.。
(soft piano music)。
