Good evening, I want to welcome you to KFCI Online.。
We're so pleased that you've decided to join us for worship tonight.。
Our hope and our prayer is that you will enter into the full experience of worship.。
We'll be singing in a moment, we'll be listening to God's Word, we'll be praying, and it's。
our prayer that you will join with us.。
To help you, we've prepared a worksheet.。
The link will be online.。
Please have that ready so you can follow what we're doing and to participate fully in it.。
In the darkness we were waiting Without hope, without light。
Till from heaven you came running There was mercy in your eyes。
To fulfill the law and prophets To a virgin came the Word。
From a throne of endless glory To a cradle in the dirt。
Praise the Father, praise the Son Praise the Spirit, three in one。
God of glory, majesty Praise forever to the King of kings。
To reveal the kingdom coming And to reconcile the lost。
To redeem the whole creation You did not despise the cross。
For even in your suffering You saw to the other side。
Knowing this was our salvation Jesus, for our sake you died。
Praise the Father, praise the Son Praise the Spirit, three in one。
God of glory, majesty Praise forever to the King of kings。
And the morning that you rose All of heaven held its breath。
Till that stone was moved for good For the Lamb had conquered death。
And the dead rose from their tombs And the angels stood in awe。
For the souls of all who'd come To the Father are restored。
And the church of Christ was born Then the Spirit lit the flame。
Now this gospel truth of old Shall not kneel and shall not fade。
By His blood and in His name Oh, in His freedom I am free。
By the blood of Jesus Christ Who has resurrected me。
Praise the Father, praise the Son Praise the Spirit, three in one。
God of glory, majesty Praise forever to the King of kings。
Praise the Father, praise the Son Praise the Spirit, three in one。
God of glory, majesty Praise forever to the King of kings。
We'll praise forever to the King of kings We'll praise forever to the King of kings。
[Instrumental]。
You are here, moving in our midst I worship You, I worship You。
You are here, working in this place I worship You, I worship You。
'Cause You are way maker, worker, promise keeper Light in the darkness, my God。
That is who You are You are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper。
Light in the darkness, my God That is who You are。
You are here, touching every heart I worship You, I worship You。
You are here, healing every heart I worship You, I worship You。
You are here, turning lives around I worship You, I worship You。
You are here, mending every heart I worship You, I worship You。
'Cause You are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper Light in the darkness, my God。
That is who You are Oh, You are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper。
Light in the darkness, my God That is who You are。
Yes, You are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper Light in the darkness, my God。
That is who You are Oh, You are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper。
Light in the darkness, my God That is who You are。
You are here。
Even when I don't see that You're working Even when I don't feel that You're working。
You never stop, You never stop working You never stop, You never stop working。
Even when I don't see that You're working Even when I don't feel that You're working。
You never stop, You never stop working You never stop, You never stop working。
Even when I don't see that You're working Even when I don't feel that You're working。
You never stop, You never stop working You never stop, You never stop working。
Even when I don't see that You're working Even when I don't feel that You're working。
You never stop, You never stop working You never stop, You never stop working。
Oh, You are the Lord of all We trust in You。
We're in Your hands Oh, God。
Yes, You are Lord Oh, You are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper。
Light in the darkness, my God That is who You are。
Oh, You are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper。
Light in the darkness, my God That is who You are。
That is who You are That is who You are。
That is who You are That is who You are。
So, Lord, we put our trust in You You are the one who makes a way when there is no way。
You are the miracle worker Moving supernaturally in our world。
And You are the promise keeper And You are faithful to us。
You are good We put our trust in You and You alone。
We thank You, God In Your name we pray, Amen。
Hi everyone, so even though we won't be meeting this week, we just hope that everyone can continue to be a family to each other during this time and to just show support, yeah, and just continue to be a family to each other.。
So for that purpose, we have our mask outreach coming up next week. Yay! And also this week. Yay! Thank you.。
So for the mask outreach this week, it will be the Sunday at 1pm. We'll be going out to the Cowan side near Shamsuri Pole to hand out these face masks currently donated by Giving Bread Ministries to people in need, especially the elderly.。
So if you're interested, please drop me a message, let me know. We'd love for everyone to be involved, not just the younger adults.。
But we'd really love to get to know each other during this time and to just have this event be sort of a discipleship event, especially because we know that there haven't been so many of these events in KFCI lately.。
So yeah, if you'd like to join us, let me know. We have 500 of these, so we're really itching to give them all out. Thank you.。
Hi Church, we're going to spend some time to pray together. We've been doing that for the last couple months, and we would love to pray for the world, especially during this time. Let's pray together.。
Heavenly Father, we come before you, and we want to lift our world into your hands.。
And it's a difficult time for everybody, especially those who are facing this virus.。
We especially pray for those who are in serious condition, and we pray that they would find their hope in Jesus, and if it is your will, that you would heal them.。
We pray for the medical staff. They are in such stressful times, dealing with so many patients right now.。
And we just ask that you would give them wisdom and strength to do their job.。
And I pray for the world leaders, Father. Every decision that they make has such weight to them.。
We ask that, Lord, they would go to you at this time, and for wisdom, to know what to do, to make the right decisions.。
And we pray for our situation here in Hong Kong as well, and we know that cases have been going up this week, and we ask for your protection, dear Lord.。
And be with us during this service, that you would bless us, that you would fill us with the Spirit as we worship you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
And now I would love to introduce Pastor John, who is going to come to us and share the Word of God.。
Asthma.。
Cancer.。
Diabetes.。
Blindness.。
Coronavirus.。
This is only a very short list of the diseases that affect mankind.。
Some are a nuisance. Some painful. Some debilitating. Some lethal.。
At the time when Jesus was walking on the earth, disease had an even greater hold on mankind than even now.。
Medical knowledge was limited. Medical technology virtually non-existent.。
And even basic preventative measures were lacking.。
Many diseases that we now consider to be of little threat, due to modern antibiotics and drugs, used to be fatal.。
Suffering pain and debilitation from various diseases was common as it shortened life spans.。
Into this wretched world came Jesus.。
Perfect God, becoming perfect man.。
In order to take upon himself the curse of mankind's sin.。
Part of that curse are the diseases affecting mankind.。
Our series is called Jesus is King.。
One sign of a king is authority.。
Today we're going to look at several examples of Jesus the King exercising his authority not only over disease, but also demons, nature, sin and even death.。
It is not just the miracles that Jesus performs that demonstrate his deity, but the manner in which he does them.。
We shall see five things.。
Number one, the king has authority over disease.。
Secondly, the king has authority over nature.。
Thirdly, the king has authority over the supernatural.。
Fourthly, the king has authority over sin.。
And lastly, the king has authority over death.。
The first thing we shall see is the king has authority over disease.。
As we look at the story of the leper.。
Let me read a couple of verses from Matthew chapter 8.。
When Jesus came down from the mountainside, large crowds followed him.。
A man with leprosy came and knelt before him and said, "Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean."。
Jesus has come down from the mountain on which he has given the Sermon on the Mount.。
You remember Johnny told us all about that last week.。
And the people are still following him.。
He would be by the shore of the Sea of Galilee near Capernaum.。
And from somewhere a leper comes up to Jesus.。
Now the Mosaic law had many regulations concerning those that had leprosy.。
Including that a leper had to live away from everybody else.。
It's very reminiscent of COVID-19, isn't it?。
When they did venture out, they had to wear clothes that were torn, cover their heads and cry, "Unclean! Unclean!"。
This both prevented the spread of an infectious disease and prevented people from being contaminated by a person who was ceremonially unclean.。
Leprosy would often result in gross deformities that would make a person look hideous.。
These things produced a great fear in people that they would often throw rocks at lepers who came too close.。
For those reasons, most lepers stayed at a distance.。
It was a bold move of this leper to approach Jesus.。
And the leper comes to Jesus and humbly bows to him and then makes his request, "Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean."。
Now the Greek grammar here indicates the man had no doubt that Jesus could cure him from his leprosy.。
This is quite a statement of faith because the only known case of that time of such a healing was that of Naaman the Aramaean at the time of Elisha.。
The leper's only uncertainty is if, if Jesus would be willing to heal him.。
And so he humbly makes his request.。
That's a good example of all that would come to Jesus.。
We do not come demanding. We have to come with faith that he is able and then request that he will do according to his will and not according to our own, even as this leper did.。
Jesus answers the man in verse 3.。
Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man.。
"I am willing," he said, "be clean."。
Immediately he was cleansed of his leprosy.。
Now notice very carefully, Jesus touched him.。
The word for touch here is not like a tap on the shoulder, but a touch in a firm grip.。
And the word tense suggests that as Jesus reached out to this leper, the leper responded and reached out to Jesus.。
The man of righteousness reached out to touch a person who was the epitome of being unclean.。
Any other person that would do this would become unclean, but not Jesus because his righteousness is internally generated.。
The point was proven in that the leper was immediately healed and made clean.。
Then we meet two other people who were also looked down upon by the self-righteous zealots of Judaism.。
The centurion's servant, a Gentile, and Peter's mother-in-law, a woman.。
The Jewish prayer book, the Siddur, actually says this, "Jews daily thank God that they were not born Gentiles, women or slaves.。
Gentiles were regarded as unclean pigs, and women were generally held in low esteem in Jewish culture at that time."。
I won't read them, but suffice to say, the king healed them. He healed them both, demonstrating again his authority.。
Matthew in chapter 18 points out that Jesus healed all who were ill in order that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled.。
Saying, "He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases."。
Jesus proved that he had authority over disease just as has been prophesied.。
He healed fully. He could heal from a distance.。
And if he did touch someone who was unclean from disease, he was not made unclean. Instead, he healed and cleansed the unclean person who had the disease.。
So yes, firstly, Jesus the king had authority over disease.。
The next miracle in Matthew chapter 8 demonstrates Jesus' authority over nature.。
The king has authority over nature.。
Man has always wanted to control nature, but he can do nothing about stopping the rain or the wind.。
I remember in 2008 when we had the Olympics in Beijing, the authorities were doing things with the air there to try and stop the wind and the pollution.。
But let's look at Matthew 8, 23.。
"Then he got into a boat and his disciples followed him. Suddenly a furious storm came up on the lake, so that the waves swept over the boat.。
But Jesus was sleeping. The disciples went and woke him, saying, 'Lord, save us! We're going to drown!'。
This was a very, very violent storm, and they were in grave danger of being swamped.。
In the midst of this, Jesus was tired and was calmly sleeping in the stern of the boat.。
The disciples, though several of them were fishermen with great experience in sailing on the Sea of Galilee, had come to the end of their abilities to cope with the storm.。
They woke Jesus up and cried out to him to save them from the impending disaster.。
They showed faith and that they believed that he could save them, but they were not prepared for how he would do it.。
Let's read. "He replied, 'You of little faith! Why are you so afraid?'。
Then he got up, he rebuked the wind and the waves, and it was completely calm."。
The disciples were frightened because they could no longer handle the situation, and their faith was not yet great enough to calmly trust God in the midst of such a storm.。
They'd seen Jesus perform many miracles, but they were not prepared for him to exercise his authority over the winds and the waves by commanding them to stop.。
Please note here, Jesus rebukes the wind and the sea and not any demonic force.。
The result is they immediately stopped.。
No wonder the disciples were amazed and responded in verse 27,。
"What kind of man is this, even the wind and waves obey him?"。
Only a man who is in fact God could do this.。
Jesus is God in human flesh.。
We should not be surprised at Jesus' authority over nature.。
He is the one who created it.。
Colossians 1.16 says this, "For by him," that's Jesus, "all things were created, both in the heavens and the earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities.。
All things have been created by him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things hold together."。
Yes, Jesus the King had authority over nature.。
Thirdly, the King has authority over the supernatural.。
Let's read from Matthew chapter 8.。
"When he arrived at the other side in the region of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men coming from the tombs met him.。
They were so violent that no one could pass that way."。
Now the country of the Gadarenes is on the northeast shore of the Sea of Galilee, about six miles southeast across the sea from Capernaum.。
Jesus and his disciples travel there, and as they come out of the boat and start up the hill, they pass a graveyard where they are met by two demonized men.。
These men were influenced by demons, so they were mentally deranged, and they were actually living in the graveyard.。
The demonized men come out of the tombs and come before Jesus, crying out, "What do you want with us, Son of God?" they said.。
"Have you come here to torture us before the appointed time?"。
It was the demons dwelling inside the man that were saying this.。
Demons know that they will be judged by Jesus, and these demons were wondering what Jesus was going to do with them.。
In verse 30, it remarks that some distance from them a large herd of pigs was feeding.。
The demons begged Jesus, "If you drive us out, send us into the herd of pigs."。
Now there is no indication why the demons wanted to go into the herd of pigs, except they knew that this was a better option than just being cast into the abyss.。
It is safe to assume they knew that Jesus would not grant them going into some other person,。
so possibly they thought that Jesus would accept this option since they were unclean, and swine were also considered unclean under Jewish law.。
In verse 32, we find that Jesus grants them their request.。
"He said to them, 'Go!' So they came out and went into the pigs, and the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and died in the water."。
I wish I had seen this one.。
The demons were in rebellion against God, but like the captured enemy soldiers,。
they had no choice but to obey Jesus when in his presence, because he is God.。
Yes, the King had authority over the supernatural.。
Fourthly, the King has authority over sin.。
We are going to look at the story of the paralytics.。
We see Jesus return to Capernaum, and once again people are flocking to him.。
And to this crowded place come four men, carrying a paralytic man lying on a bed.。
They couldn't get into a house through the door, so they went outside up to the roof, where they dug an opening and lowered their friend into a house.。
They were going to all this trouble to bring their paralysed friend to Jesus, demonstrated they believed that Jesus could help.。
We pick up the story in Matthew 9, verse 2.。
Some men brought to him a paralysed man lying on a mat.。
When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the man, "Take heart, your son. Your sins are forgiven."。
Now Jesus' words were very carefully spoken, for he was well aware that there were some scribes present,。
and that he believed that one's physical afflictions were caused either by an individual's sin,。
or perhaps the sins of their parents, if they had been born in that condition.。
Now that premise is not always true, such as in the case of Job.。
But it may well have been true for this man, for Jesus addressed the problem by telling him,。
"Take courage, my son. Your sins are forgiven."。
That caught the attention of the scribes.。
And they said, "At this, some of the teachers said to themselves, 'This fellow is blaspheming.'"。
They did not believe that Jesus could do this, because they correctly understood that only God could forgive sins.。
And they didn't believe that Jesus was God.。
Let's look at Jesus' response.。
"Knowing their thoughts," Jesus said, "why do you entertain evil thoughts in your hearts?。
Which is easier to say, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Get up and walk?'。
But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins."。
I'll read that again. "I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins."。
So he said to the paralyzed man, "Get up, take your mat, and go home."。
Then the man got up and went home.。
When the crowd saw this, they were filled with awe, and they praised God, who had given such authority to man."。
Jesus the King does have authority to forgive sins,。
and he proved the point by healing the paralyzed man immediately and completely,。
so the man even had the strength to pick up his own bed and take it home with him.。
The multitudes understood the significance of this, and gave praise to God.。
We did not find the religious leaders joining in the celebration.。
As time progressed, they would become increasingly hard-hearted towards Jesus,。
so they would deny the miracles, or claim they were done by the power of Beelzebub, that's Satan.。
But yes, Jesus had authority over sin.。
And lastly, the King has authority over death.。
We're going to look at the story of the synagogue official's daughter.。
The final miracle that Matthew recounts in this section demonstrates Jesus' power over man's greatest enemy, death.。
The story begins with Jairus, the chief official of the synagogue in Capernaum,。
coming to Jesus and falling down at his feet to entreat him concerning his 12-year-old daughter.。
He said, "My daughter has just died, but come and put your hand on her and she will live."。
The tense of that is actually, she hadn't actually died, but she was about to die.。
Jesus then started walking towards Jairus' home, but the multitudes were pressing against him.。
It was difficult to travel.。
In the midst of this crowd, a woman who had lived with a hemorrhage for 12 years。
came up and touched the fringe of Jesus' cloak.。
Though she had not been able to find a physician who could heal her all those years,。
she was healed instantly when she touched the edge of Jesus' coat.。
While Jesus was still speaking to the woman, someone came up from Jairus' house。
and confirmed that the daughter had died and not to trouble the teacher anymore.。
Let's read what happened.。
When Jesus entered the synagogue leader's house and saw the noisy crowd and people playing pipes,。
he said, "Go away! The girl is not dead, but asleep."。
They laughed at him.。
After the crowd had been put outside, he went in, he took the girl by the hand,。
and she got up.。
The parents were not surprisingly amazed, and though Jesus told the parents not to tell anyone what had happened,。
the news of it spread throughout the land.。
Jesus could raise people from the dead.。
This is not an isolated incident either.。
Luke records that Jesus had stopped a funeral and raised the young man that had died。
and given him back to his mother.。
John records the resurrection of Lazarus after he had already been dead for three days.。
Jesus' power to raise the dead is one more proof that he is indeed God in human flesh.。
He is King.。
But what do you believe about Jesus?。
His authority over disease, demons, nature, sin and death all prove his kingship and his deity.。
Jesus' miracles and preaching proved his identity.。
Some people believed the obvious, while others rejected it for all sorts of reasons,。
including not being able to face the ridicule of those who do not believe.。
The same is still true today.。
There are many that come to the very logical conclusion that Jesus demonstrated that he was God.。
But even so, they refuse to put their faith in him and become a true Christian。
because they don't want to face the ridicule of their co-workers, their friends or their family.。
I guess it boils down to whether you want to live for the present or live for eternity.。
How sad is it that so many people exclude themselves from heaven。
because they are more concerned about the suffering that may occur in this life in the hands of unbelievers?。
They will have all of eternity to regret it.。
Don't you yourself be one of them?。
I want to pray a prayer right now for anyone who may be watching who has never committed their life to Jesus.。
You've heard the story tonight that Jesus the King is a God who has authority over disease,。
over sin, over death, over demons, over nature.。
He died on a cross for you and for your sins so that you would not have to taste death.。
He did it in your place.。
I'm going to pray a prayer now. I'm going to ask you to pray along with me.。
Then after you've prayed it, tell someone, email us, contact us.。
We'd love to follow up with you and encourage you on your Christian duty.。
Let's pray. Let's bow our heads.。
Father God, I come to you and I recognize that your Son Jesus is King.。
I recognize that he has authority over disease, over nature, over the supernatural, over sin and even death.。
I thank you Jesus that you went to the cross to die for me.。
I come to you now and offer you my life.。
Jesus, forgive me my sins.。
Come into my life by your Holy Spirit and help me to live a life that pleases you。
and a life that deep down I've always wanted to live.。
Jesus, my Lord, my King, I know that I will spend eternity with you and with those who love you.。
I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.。
Once again everybody, thank you for tuning in.。
We'll see you again next week. God bless you. Have a great week and stay safe.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
