Do you know something?。
This is my first live sermon here since November the 26th.。
I'm so pleased that Sandra and I could be back here with our church family.。
As I said last week, we've missed you and have been so grateful for your love, your。
support and your prayers.。
It's been quite a journey for us.。
And tonight, we begin another journey together.。
One that will take us, as Johnny said, from now until Easter.。
Talking of journeys, I heard a story about Albert Einstein, the famous scientist.。
You know, E=mc2.。
He was traveling from Princeton, New Jersey on a train when the conductor came down the。
aisle punching tickets.。
Einstein reached into his vest pocket.。
He couldn't find his ticket.。
So he reached into his trouser pockets.。
Sounds like me, Sandra, doesn't it?。
It still wasn't there.。
He looked in his briefcase, but still couldn't find it.。
He looked on the seat next to him, but no sign of the tickets.。
The conductor was a very kind man.。
He said, "Dr. Einstein, I know who you are.。
We all know who you are.。
I'm sure you bought a ticket.。
Don't worry about it."。
The conductor just carried on his way, punching tickets.。
But just before he went to the next car, he turned around and he saw the great scientist。
on his hands and his knees looking for his ticket.。
The conductor rushed back and said, "Dr. Einstein, don't worry.。
I know who you are.。
No problem.。
You don't need a ticket."。
Einstein said, "Young man, I too know who I am.。
What I don't know is where I'm going."。
I think we all ask ourselves that question, don't we, from time to time?。
Where am I going?。
Today we begin a journey, a journey that will last eight weeks and will take us to Easter.。
I mean, we all like journeys, don't we?。
Especially you, Johnny.。
We all like journeys.。
I want to put some photos up of a journey I took to London in 2019.。
As many of you know, I support Tottenham Hotspur Football Club.。
Yes, I know it's sad.。
Now thanks to my friends at AIA in Hong Kong, I was able to not only visit the new stadium,。
but actually to go to the training ground to meet the players, including, as you see,。
Harry Kane and Sun Ho Ming.。
It was the experience of a lifetime for a lifetime Spurs fan.。
But the only way I can share it with you is through social media posts like this.。
You weren't there.。
It was a big thrill for me, but I experienced it alone.。
But the key to this journey is that we are going on it together.。
And experiences always beat those that we do on our own.。
I want to put another picture.。
I want to roll the clock forward a few months.。
A few months after that, a group of us from KFCI went to Israel and Jordan.。
Someone's learned Cantonese at the back.。
Is that the baby speaking Cantonese already?。
But the trip here, you will see us outside the empty tomb in Jerusalem.。
It was so special.。
Why?。
Because we did it together.。
We still talk about it now.。
We still ask, when can we go again?。
PS, watch this space.。
Indeed, I have to tell you, a few minutes after this picture was taken, we sat around。
and we did communion together.。
A truly shared experience.。
And for this one, we are joining hundreds of thousands of Christ followers around the。
globe.。
We will be journeying together.。
A small acorn that was birthed here in Hong Kong by a small group of international churches。
around five years ago, that has dramatically expanded to the local church, churches of。
different denominations, to churches employing various languages, and lastly, geographically,。
to churches across Asia and indeed the world.。
I heard that people in 165 countries last year actually took part in some way in the。
One Campaign.。
The acorns that were planted have grown into big oak trees.。
All inspired by a prayer, all inspired by a prayer that Jesus prayed in John chapter。
17.。
Let me set the scene.。
The scene is that Jesus is literally hours before his death.。
The cruel barbaric death normally reserved for a common criminal on a dirty wooden cross.。
He prays to his father.。
And then in verse 21, he says these words, "That they may all be one, just as you, Father,。
are in me and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that。
you have sent me."。
This leads me to a question.。
What would you be praying hours before your torture and a painful, bloody death?。
I guess I'd be praying something like, "Couldn't you just dumb down the pain?"。
Or maybe, "God, are you sure this is the only way?"。
But Jesus had a different priority.。
The unity of his children was the thing that was upper mind in his mind and in his heart.。
And that is why we begin this journey today.。
I believe that God is saying to his church, "This is a time for building bridges and not。
building walls.。
Indeed, it's a time to tear down walls and replace them with bridges."。
I believe this congregation is called to be bridge builders.。
As a minister for this church, I want to share with you my heart for one church.。
The truth is, I've really felt a heavy burden in this area since I started looking at the。
early church in the book of Acts.。
We looked at it last year, do you remember?。
I've been comparing the early church in Jerusalem in AD 30 with the early believers sharing。
their possessions, giving to those in needs.。
I see numbers being added daily.。
I see miracles happening to such an extent that people wanted to get under Peter's shadow。
that they might be healed.。
In Acts 2, verse 1, "At the beginning, when the day of Pentecost came, they were all together。
in one place."。
This is an interesting word, the Greek word for "in one place."。
Homophobidon is translated in other versions as "with one accord."。
They were in the same place spiritually as well as physically.。
What is basically saying today, we know we're all in the same room here today, we're physically。
in one place.。
But are we of one accord?。
It means being unanimous, having mutual consent, being in agreement, having group unity, having。
one mind and purpose.。
Now note, unity is not uniformity.。
We do not have to become like each other.。
Thank goodness.。
There is a richness in diversity.。
As I look, I see a richness, I see a diversity in this room.。
We're not called to uniformity, but we are called to unity.。
Uniformity is a form of pressure from without.。
We see it in the cults, don't we?。
Where everyone is told, "You've got to be like this.。
You've got to act like this.。
You've got to dress like this," etc.。
But unity, pure unity must come from within and needs grace, the fruit of the Spirit.。
I need to tell you right now, if we're going to preserve the unity of the Spirit, we must。
possess the necessary spiritual graces.。
We can look either to the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5, but the fruit of the Spirit。
is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.。
Or to the list that Paul has kindly included in the fourth chapter of his letter to the。
Ephesians.。
He says this, "I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy。
of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness and patience,。
bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond。
of peace."。
If one and the one campaign is going to move beyond a Lent Bible plan, we're not just looking。
for a Lent Bible plan.。
We don't want in 40 days time, go back to the way we were.。
This is what we need.。
Paul tells us seven things, humility, gentleness, patience, forbearing.。
He says, "Bearing with one another in love, love, eagerness to maintain unity and peace."。
That's our job description.。
And Paul seems to sum it up very well in Colossians 3.15.。
I've put it on the screen.。
It says, "And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you are called。
in one body."。
I think this verse says it all.。
Now it's true that we will not agree on everything.。
We don't want to be a church where we agree on everything.。
But it's essential that we do agree on foundational truths.。
And dear Paul helps us again by listing seven, that number again, in verses four to six.。
"There is one body and one spirit, just as you are called to one hope that belongs to。
your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all。
and through all and in all."。
As an aside, he seems to be promoting the one campaign, doesn't he?。
He talks about one body, one spirit, one hope in our calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism,。
one God and Father.。
My friends, seven essential things that we are to agree on.。
Paul is concerned that we do not break the spirit of unity by agreeing to false teaching.。
He does not recommend peace at any price.。
On the other hand, purity of teaching itself does not produce spiritual unity, which is。
why Paul joins the two in verse 15.。
I love this.。
Ephesians 4.15, "Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into。
Him who is the head into Christ."。
We found the answer.。
Don't you just love the Word of God?。
The key to keeping the unity of spirit, the key to ensuring this is not just a great Lent。
program, but a continuing work of God in our city.。
The truth in love.。
In love.。
The truth.。
Let us pray that this will be the 2023 reality in Hong Kong and the Christian church as a。
whole.。
Then I believe we will start to see things that not only match, but would surpass the。
early church in Acts 30, that we would truly be one.。
And God has laid on our hearts in conjunction with all the other churches taking part in。
the One Campaign, an even bigger, some might say audacious vision.。
We call it the 2033.。
Sorry, that's the 2033.。
We've got the date wrong there.。
2033 vision.。
Every tribe, every tongue, every nation.。
Every tribe, every tongue, every nation.。
Here's some staggering facts.。
Earth's population numbers are in the billions and it's growing every day.。
There are over 7,100 languages spoken all over the world.。
70% of people alive today primarily learn through audible communication and 50% cannot。
read at a functional level.。
How will they ever come to hear the gospel?。
Faith Comes By Hearing, who are sponsoring the One Campaign, have come alongside the worldwide。
translation community in a movement to finish the task, to ensure that everyone on earth。
has access to Jesus Christ's gospel in a format they can understand.。
The goal is to see the Word of God recorded and freely provided in every language that。
needs it by the year 2033.。
My friends, this is it.。
The final sprint.。
The great commission fulfilled in our generation.。
Hear the words of Jesus.。
These are not my words, Matthew 24, 14.。
And the gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony。
to all nations.。
Now that word nations actually in Greek is ethnos, which actually means ethnic groups.。
It means the geographical countries that we see today will be as a testimony to all people。
groups and then the end will come.。
Jesus will come again.。
I hope I've got you excited about our journey.。
But you may be asking, how are we going to start?。
Well from Ash Wednesday, this Wednesday, the 22nd of February until Easter Sunday, the。
9th of April, we will be joining Christians across the globe, listening to Luke's gospel.。
To do so, you'll need to download the free app that Johnny mentioned, One Hearing the。
Word.。
Every day you'll be able to listen to a passage from Luke's gospel.。
It will only be a few minutes.。
There'll be a daily devotional that's been written by a pastor here in Hong Kong.。
And there will be a prayer actually that I wrote.。
Then each weekend we'll have the opportunity to watch a gospel film.。
And here at church, we will be listening to a sermon based on the parables of Jesus in。
Luke.。
This is what you can look forward to.。
I've put it up there now.。
So if you want to know what we're going to be hearing and who you're going to be hearing。
it from the next few weeks, these are the sermons for the next eight weeks.。
And next week, Johnny will be bringing us the parable of the Good Samaritan.。
And you've heard that this year we are introducing One Pray for Five with a vision that every。
person in the world will be prayed for by 2033.。
And how it starts is you and I writing down the names today of five people, pre-believers。
that you are going to pray for.。
And we believe the power of mathematics is that that happens for the whole world will。
be covered in prayer in 10 years.。
Let me just take a few moments to give you some background to the parables of Jesus.。
Jesus told parables to help his audience imagine a reality other than the one they were used。
to and to respond to it by having a change of heart and seeking a closer relationship。
with God.。
That reality is what we call the kingdom of heaven.。
The gospel of Luke contains both the largest total number of parables.。
There are 24 parables in the gospel of Luke.。
And there are 18 parables in Luke's gospel which are unique to Luke's gospel.。
They are not found in the other three gospels.。
It is helpful for us to see how parables function in Luke's gospel.。
But before we do that, let's take a step backwards.。
What kind of speech is meant when we use the term parable?。
A parable is a short story that refers to something outside the parable itself.。
Jesus' parables, especially in the gospel of Luke, refer to the kingdom of God.。
The English term parable comes from a Greek term, parabolē, but the Greek term has a。
somewhat broader range of meaning and includes, for example, what we often call riddles.。
Although parables are related to other kinds of speech like riddles and proverbs, parables。
emphasize story.。
You're going to be hearing seven stories over the next seven weeks.。
Parables are short stories that refer to God's realm of power, God's kingdom.。
In Luke's gospel, as well as the gospels of Matthew and Mark, Jesus' parables generally。
have a very familiar setting.。
But these little stories also usually have some surprising element that turns the familiar。
world upside down.。
During Jesus' time on earth, he loved using profound parables to teach important lessons.。
There's currently a modern day parable circling across the internet in which a wealthy father。
takes his son to a poor farm in the country with the intention of teaching his son to。
value their wealth.。
But to his surprise, his son's eye-opening response to this exercise turns the tables。
completely.。
It goes like this.。
One day, a very wealthy father took his son on a trip to the country for the sole purpose。
of showing his son how it was to be poor.。
They spent a few days and nights on a farm of what would be considered a very poor family.。
After their return from the trip, the father asked his son how he liked the trip.。
It was great, dad.。
The son replied, did you see how poor people can be?。
Oh, yes, said the son.。
So what did you learn from the trip?。
Asked the father.。
The son said, I saw that we have one dog and they have four.。
We have a pool that reaches to the middle of our garden and they have a creek that has。
no end.。
We have imported lanterns in our garden, probably from Ikea, and they have stars at night.。
Our patio reaches to the front yard and they have the whole horizon.。
We have a small piece of land to live on and they have fields that go beyond our sight.。
We have servants who serve us, but they serve others.。
We buy our food, but they grow theirs.。
We have walls around our property to protect us, but they have friends to protect them.。
The boy's father was speechless.。
And his son said to him, dad, it showed me how poor we really are.。
Very poignant.。
In that same frame of mind, we are going to be looking together at the good Samaritan.。
The rich fool, the unjust steward, the rich man and Lazarus, the Pharisee and the tax。
collector and the tenants.。
We could equally have looked at some other parables in Luke.。
But we need to ask ourselves the question as we prepare for it.。
What do the parables teach us about living in the kingdom of heaven?。
And perhaps more importantly, and week by week, I want you to ask yourself these questions.。
What sort of changes do you or do we personally need to make in order to live in God's reign?。
Jesus told parables.。
He didn't write them down to be read.。
His message spread by word of mouth when his disciples told the stories.。
I want to pray right now as we finish that we would offer our mouth.。
We offer our mouth to the Lord to be used to take his message to the ends of the earth.。
Would we stand as the band comes back?。
I'd love to pray for us.。
I'm going to ask you a question as we close tonight.。
Are you willing to dedicate your mouth to be used as God would deign to use you to tell。
the stories of Jesus and his kingdom to the ends of the earth?。
I believe this is not about a preacher or a church.。
It's about the mobilization.。
There are going to be hundreds of thousands of Christians on this journey with us over。
Lent if each one of us would dedicate our mouth to him to be used.。
We're going to be singing together in a moment.。
Let it be today we sing a song of heaven.。
Glory to our God.。
Let's pray.。
Maybe you want to put your hands on your mouth.。
Say Lord I offer you my lips.。
We thank you Lord.。
You've given us this vision.。
The gospel will go to the ends of the earth.。
Maybe you're not be like that father who took his son to the country.。
Be trapped by the things of the world and the values of the world.。
Maybe you'd be like that little boy.。
Maybe we see the kingdom of God in the things that surround us.。
We pray today for the five people Lord that we're going to put the names down of and as。
we pray for them daily Lord.。
We pray for salvation.。
We pray for restoration.。
I want to pray for the churches of Hong Kong.。
We pray for every church in this city Lord.。
Pray for every pastor every leader.。
Help us Lord to see them as brothers and sisters.。
Help us Lord to join hands with them.。
Because there will be a day Lord.。
When we stand together before the throne of God.。
Arm in arm.。
We sing this song of heaven.。
Glory to our God who sits on the throne.。
Holy is the lamb.。
Let's not wait Lord till we're in heaven.。
Let's link arms together.。
Let's join together.。
Give us one heart one mind and one voice.。
As we say glory to God.。
In Jesus name.。
Amen.。
Let's sing this song together.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
