Good evening, everyone.。
I love the response here.。
Now just before we start, let's play a little game.。
Okay, I just added it right now.。
This is a photo of me and my family.。
Can anybody guess which country this is in?。
Just by this photo, you can tell if you have been here.。
I'm going to try to point out the specialty.。
No, it's not China.。
So look at this stack of things.。
Oh, somebody said Canada.。
All right.。
Please get a gift, a cookie from Bonnie at the end of this.。
Thank you.。
Now, if you've been to Canada, you know that there is a restaurant that has these huge。
lobsters and they're so big that they're like 20 pounds each.。
Okay, they're like gigantic.。
So if you've ever been there, you would recognize it by.。
All right, good job.。
So some of you might or may not know me.。
My name is Michelle, and I serve as one of the pastors here.。
It's really my honor here today to share a message with you.。
And it's on my heart really to share about honoring our father and mother.。
This is a topic that is huge in my heart, and I would love to share with you.。
Now, many a times we would think about why is it that we need to honor our father and。
mother?。
Sometimes we think why?。
And at the same time, we're thinking, what does it mean to honor?。
I mean, yes, we kind of know what that word is.。
But at the same time, we don't really.。
What's the difference between honoring them?。
And then is it the same as obeying everything they say?。
But what does it mean in the Bible when they ask us to honor our mother and father?。
And at the same time, how do we do it in our everyday life?。
So then we're following God's heart.。
So today we're going to package all of that together.。
And let us start by reading this verse together.。
Can you all see this?。
All right, let's read it together.。
One, two, three.。
Honor your father and your mother that your days may be long in the land that the Lord。
your God is giving you.。
Now this is from Exodus.。
It's part of the Ten Commandments.。
Now I don't know, but if you were to think, okay, how did God give the Ten Commandments?。
I mean, did he give it through an email or maybe a WhatsApp?。
So then we can just kind of sit on our couch and we can scroll.。
You know how it is when you add a new app, right?。
You have all these agreements and what you do, you just scroll to the bottom and you。
say, I agree, right?。
But no, God didn't do that.。
And neither did God give it to Moses so that he could tell everybody about the Ten Commandments.。
But you know what?。
God actually spoke to the entire nation in person so that they would know the Ten Commandments.。
And this is how important it is to our God.。
Now how did he do it?。
He actually had them consecrated themselves for the last three days before receiving that。
message.。
What does it mean?。
So they need to wash their clothes.。
They need to refrain from any sexual relationships.。
And then they have to wait for the Lord.。
And how did it happen?。
Three days later, when they were ready to receive the word, God began to show up.。
The very first thing that happened was there was thunder and there was lightning.。
So it was just like a few weeks ago.。
You remember there was thunder so strong that when it roared, your heart feel like the drum。
set was inside your heart.。
Is that huge?。
And what he did was he came as a thick cloud onto the mountain in Mount Sinai.。
And the whole mountain was burning in fire.。
And the entire mountain was shaking.。
It was trembling because what?。
God himself, God of the universe showed up.。
And this is how important the Ten Commandments is.。
And many times we think to ourselves, "But it's only for the Israelites.。
It's for those people."。
But no, it's for everyone who believes in God.。
Because in the New Testament, Jesus said that I came not to abolish the laws, but what?。
To fulfill them.。
And as followers of Christ, we would do that too.。
And so not only is it that the Ten Commandments was really important, but at the same time,。
you know, there are only 10 things you can put on there, right?。
And guess when, out of these 10, where does honoring your father and mother stand?。
Anybody can shout out, maybe you can get a cookie too.。
Five, that's right.。
Look at that.。
It's fifth.。
Now, how often it is when we think about, have we sinned against God?。
Usually, I mean, I'm guilty of this.。
What I do is I start thinking, "All right, have I been worshiping other gods?。
Let me see.。
Have I been making an idol so I would worship?。
Did I murder anyone?。
Nope, I guess no, maybe not the past year.。
I mean, let's not go back all the way.。
And we think about, have we stole anybody's stuff?。
Nope, nope.。
So we're checking each one off.。
But how often really is it that we think about, have we sinned against God by not honoring。
our father and mother?。
I mean, I don't know about you, but I certainly haven't.。
I should start.。
And basically, what does that mean?。
That means that we have just, we like to pick and choose what are the important ones, but。
God has shown us what's important.。
And being in fifth place also has a very special thing that we can note.。
What is it?。
Is that the first four were actually about God himself.。
And this is the very first commandment that God gave about how we treat other people.。
And so he finds it to be the most important thing for us if we want it to treat other。
people.。
And that's why he put it in the fifth commandment.。
And so I just wanted to say that the first reason that we would need to honor our parents,。
because it's extremely, really very, very important to God.。
And if it's so important to God, we should really take it into our heart.。
And now as we continue to look at this 10 commandments, we realize that it's so important。
that God himself had to tell us and he didn't give it to someone else.。
Right?。
But at the same time, what we also see is that God has established this authority to。
us in our families.。
Now think about this.。
God has established different authorities, right?。
He has had before judges and kings, priests, prophets, and they were the ones that would。
be in charge.。
They would be the one in authority.。
And yet God put parents, father and mother as our authority.。
Now when we honor them, we're not only honoring the parent, we're actually honoring the person。
who has established this authority.。
And who is that?。
That's our God.。
And so when we honor our parents, we are honoring God himself.。
It's a way for us to honor God.。
Now at the same time, we can see that the third thing is that when we honor our father。
and mother, it is actually our act of worship.。
Now why would that be?。
I mean, we've already established the second point where it's honoring God, but remember,。
that's only the fifth commandment, honoring your father and mother, that's just the first。
part.。
What is the promise?。
That your days will be long in the land that the Lord, your God has given you.。
So there is a promise to it.。
And so when we honor our father and mother, we are actually putting our faith into the。
promise that God has given to us.。
Now this is not like using our father and mother so that we get goodies.。
It's not like that.。
I mean, technically we do get blessings from God, but what that really means is that you're。
telling God, God, I trust your word.。
I trust it so much that I'm going to do something in order to receive the blessing that you。
have promised.。
And that to God is an extremely honoring thing for him.。
So for us to honor our parents is a way that we tell God, we believe that the promise you。
have for us, the land, the long life, you're going to give that to us.。
Now every so often we might find someone who has honored their parents, but have not received。
that.。
And that's because there are other factors affecting it.。
That's just the same as when we go exercise, we believe that it's going to let us slim。
down and we're going to have a healthy body.。
But sometimes that doesn't happen because there are other factors affecting it, but。
it does not invalidate that promise.。
So that's why we can continue to believe in God and to know that we can hold onto his。
promise.。
So now that we have established these three points as the reasons why we need to and why。
we should, and we definitely have to, if we're Christians to honor God, is to honor our parents.。
Now really what does the word honor means?。
I mean, we have heard that word before.。
Now is there any English teacher in the room?。
Well, even if you are, I guess you don't want to put up your hand at this moment.。
Let's look into the word honor and let's see what the English dictionary says.。
So here it says that honor means to have great respect for someone or an award given to someone。
for something that they have done.。
We're like, oh, that's great.。
What's respect again?。
So now we look at what respect is in the English dictionary as well.。
So this is a strong feeling of approval of someone or something because of their good。
qualities and achievements.。
Now we put that two together.。
Do you see some similarities among the words?。
I mean, they should, I mean, they are going in the same direction.。
And what we see, which is very interesting, is that both of these words have a sense of。
an approval or award.。
So you're giving something.。
It's like a praise, which is good.。
But for what reason they said something that they have done or the good qualities or achievement。
that they have done.。
Now this is how the English dictionary tells us.。
Now just keep that in mind for now.。
And we're going to go to the original text.。
We're going to go to Hebrew to see what is it.。
The Hebrew language is the language that the 10 commandments was recorded in.。
So we're going to have a look and see how they understood this word.。
Now honor, kabad, really is to have weight.。
Now weight means importance.。
To have weight and respect.。
Respect in Hebrew means to revere or to fear.。
A high praise to another person because of what?。
That person's status.。
That person's status.。
Now also in the New Testament, Jesus also referred to the fifth commandment and he used。
the word honor in Greek, which is timal.。
And what's the definition?。
It is to assign value, to give proper recognition because of office, position or wealth.。
Now again, when we put those together, what is it that you see?。
You see in the Hebrew word, it really means to give value, to give importance.。
But what's the reason?。
It isn't for something that they have done.。
And it's not for something that they're, it's not about their character either, but it's。
for a status.。
It's for a position that they hold.。
And what kind of a position does our parents hold?。
Well, they're a father and they're a mother.。
They don't have to earn it to be our father and mother.。
And neither do they have to be perfect to be your father and mother.。
And I mean, we're not definitely not perfect.。
But in the English word, it has that sense where you get to be the person who judges。
and say, rather or not, you approve or not.。
But in the Hebrew and the Greek, you don't.。
And we aren't in the position and we shouldn't be to judge rather or not they are and whether。
or not we should honor them, right?。
So here from the Hebrew and from the Greek, we see what God really meant when he said,。
honor your father and mother.。
It means to give them importance because of their position.。
And so as we continue, we're going to see, all right, so now we get it.。
I get why we need to do it.。
I also now get the word, but really, how do we do it?。
And what does it look like in our everyday life?。
Because I don't really get what does it mean to give importance to someone?。
Now, so we'll first look at, I won't be reading this, but I'll be telling you what it is.。
This is a story of Ruth.。
Now Ruth is, Ruth and Naomi, some of you may have read it before.。
So Naomi is someone who had two sons and a husband.。
But sad tragedies happened and both her husband and the two sons have passed away.。
And now she has two daughters-in-law and she knew that she couldn't give any more sons。
to the two daughters-in-law.。
So she has asked them, why don't you guys go back to Moab where you came from?。
You might be able to find a husband there and give birth and have your own offspring.。
So one of them went off, but Ruth, the other one, would not.。
And she insisted, and this is what she said too, "Do not urge me to leave you or return.。
For where you go, I will go.。
Where you lodge, I will lodge.。
And your people shall be my people.。
Where you die, I will die.。
There will I be buried.。
May the Lord do to me and more also, if anything, but death parts me from you."。
Now she has this determination, but do you know what she's determined?。
She is determined to consider her mother-in-law first before herself.。
I'll say it again.。
She's determined to consider her mother-in-law first before herself.。
What does that mean?。
Actually, we can learn from the story that in order to put an importance to someone,。
it's really deciding that they have priority even above yours.。
Think about this.。
Back then, this is for Ruth.。
If she had no husband, if she had no sons, she would be nothing in that society.。
And so she said that, "I'm willing because I know if I'm not going with you, you as a。
widow, an old lady, would have nothing.。
And the only thing that I could do is that I would consider your benefits before mine."。
And what she did was she put her life, she put her offspring, she put her future and。
everything into that basket and said, "I would rather consider you first before me."。
And this is what honoring means, to put them before you.。
Now I want to put it in the 2020 context for you.。
I mean, what if you see a new iPhone that comes out and you're like, "Oh, it's got a。
three camera on the back.。
Oh, wait.。
Yes, on the back."。
You're like, "It's so good."。
And what do you want?。
You want to get it, right?。
So you go and you purchase it.。
And what do you do?。
You give your old phone to your mom.。
We've all done that.。
Don't be guilty.。
And then your mom is actually very happy because why?。
She's saying that, "Oh yeah, don't give me the new one because I would waste it.。
I don't know all the functions and what does this button do again?。
How come it only has one button?"。
And so it seems "wasteful" on her, wouldn't it?。
In the same way, it was "wasteful" for Ruth to put her life aside for her mother-in-law.。
But imagine what if we saw, "Oh, there's a new iPhone that's coming out.。
Oh, it's so good.。
Can I get one for my mom?"。
No, but think about that.。
Honoring them, putting them before you.。
And what if you go shopping and as men, you see, "Oh, this is a really nice shirt."。
I don't know how men think.。
Sorry, I'm just thinking about how men think.。
"This is a really nice shirt.。
Wow, the style is very nice."。
And you go to the salesperson and you ask, "My dad wears an extra large.。
Do you have a size in that?"。
Putting them first in our everyday life.。
And at the same time, we continue to look at another record in the Bible, which is in。
Ephesians chapter 6, verse 1 to 3.。
Here Paul actually exhortates and he says, "Children, obey your parents in the Lord,。
for this is right."。
And he then quotes, "Honor your father and mother.。
This is the first commandment with a promise that it may go well with you and that you。
may live long in the land."。
Remember this, right?。
This is from the fifth commandment.。
Now notice here, he does ask us to obey our parents, doesn't he?。
Notice something that he tags on at the back.。
He says, "Obey your parents in the Lord."。
Now in the Lord is a very interesting phrase.。
What does that mean?。
So it has two meanings.。
The first meaning is that it means that you do unto them as if you're doing it to God.。
And the other meaning is that you do to them, you obey them in the principle and the teachings。
and in the characteristics of the Lord.。
Now again, what does that look like, right?。
Basically that means in our everyday life, I mean, it's easy if our parents just ask。
us to go get the groceries, I don't think we really need this, okay?。
Is it in the Lord?。
I don't know.。
Just get the grocery, okay?。
Now, so it's not really for those scenarios, but it is for other ones, okay?。
It is for the gray areas.。
Okay, what if your mom tells you or your dad tells you, "Go get a job, okay?。
Go get a job, son."。
And then what is it that you go through in your mind?。
If we obey, yes, I'm going to go get a job, but in the Lord, it means that I'm going to。
do it in a way that glorifies God.。
And how does that look like?。
Well, it means I'm going to start evaluating.。
Does this job allow me to spread gospel to my friends, the coworkers?。
Does it even allow me to have an alpha class there so that I can tell people about Jesus?。
And or is this job going to have temptations there where it drags me away from following。
God?。
And if it does, then I'll stay away from that.。
So what it really means is that obey them, yes, in the Lord.。
Well, if it's neutral, you do it in God's principle.。
Now, of course, we get to the hard part where it is that you actually have a conflicting。
situation where your mom and dad ask you to do something that is different than the Lord's。
teaching.。
They might ask you to a date a certain person that has a very different belief than you。
do and you believe that it might drag you away from worshiping God.。
And so what do you do?。
Well, in that case, obey, but in the Lord.。
Now, the Lord, if you're doing it to him, he would not ask you to do that.。
So in the Lord has its boundaries.。
So you would simply have to say, "No, I cannot because of my faith."。
Now just because of that, remember we said it's also in the qualities of Christ, the。
characteristics of Christ.。
So what does that mean?。
That means even when you say no, don't just stop there.。
Continue to do all the 99 things that were not against the Lord.。
And your parents will be very, very strange.。
I mean, your parents will find you to be very strange.。
They're not going to be strange.。
They'll find you to be strange.。
And why?。
Because they're like, "Wait a minute.。
I thought we just had this fight.。
Why are you still going to do all these things?"。
And you know what?。
That's when we become the good testimony for God.。
And for the parents that we didn't have, they're not believing yet.。
That's when they wonder, "Why is it that my son or my daughter is willing to still obey。
everything else I say, except the ones that are against their faith?"。
And so that allows us to have an opportunity to share our faith with them.。
We should use that.。
Oh, I stayed on this slide.。
So the second thing that is easy for us to grasp what honoring means is to obey them。
in the Lord.。
Now, the third thing that we want to look at together is a record from Matthew, chapter。
15.。
So here is an interesting record, because Jesus, who was asked by the Pharisees, the。
tribes, and also the religious leaders, "Why is it that your disciples don't follow the。
traditions, the teachings of our laws?"。
And the Lord really replied him, surprisingly, using the fifth commandment.。
And he says this, "For God commanded, 'Honor your father and your mother, and whoever reviles。
father or mother must surely die.'。
But you say, 'If anyone tells his father or his mother what you would have gained from。
me is given to God, he need not honor his father.。
So for the sake of your tradition, you have made void the word of God, you hypocrites.'"。
Now let me just kind of dissect that a little bit.。
What did I just read?。
What that really meant was that there were people in the religious authorities who told。
the believers that, "You know, whatever you've put aside to honor your father, to take care。
of them, you were going to buy something or you were going to pay for this for them, don't。
worry about it.。
Use that money, give it to God, and you would have done your duty of honoring."。
And that, Jesus says, is a hypocrite.。
Now why would that, what does that have to do with us?。
Because we need to care for our parents.。
But if we think that, "Well, people tell me that as a Christian, what I need to do is。
I need to go to church, join a small group, I'll read the Bible, I'll pray, and I'll tithe,。
which means I'll give part of my money to God, and I think I've done all those things."。
And yet, if we go home and we don't honor our parents, Jesus calls us hypocrites, calls。
us hypocrites, because we can't say that we've already done everything for God, but then。
not really understanding His commands and what's on His heart.。
And so for us really, is to take care of our parents.。
Remember that sum of money?。
Well, that sum of money wasn't just going to sit there, the sum of money were meant。
to take care of them, to provide for them, to give to them.。
And so here today, we actually have three different ways for us to honor our father。
and mother in a very contextual way, which is to consider them before ourselves, which。
is to obey them in the Lord, and also to care for them, especially when they're in old age.。
Now right now, I want to share a little bit of my story with you, because I think it ties。
in a lot with this topic today.。
Now I have a lot of memories with me and my mom, so I'm going to share a little bit with。
you.。
So one of which is, I remember a number of years ago when I was working in an iBank,。
and I would have these clients meeting all the time, and I would be with my boss, and。
so we'll all be in this room.。
Of course, your parents pick the best time to call you, right?。
So you see your phone ringing and ringing, and you're like, "Oh, wow, I really can't。
take this."。
So you just kind of mute it, or you swipe it.。
And so they call for a few times, right?。
You're just going to put it aside.。
And after a while, I really thought to myself, "You know, I think my mom, she's really important。
to me.。
She's way more important to me than my boss."。
Hello, boss.。
And then my job, then the clients that I need to see, then the people.。
Because I can lose all those things, and I would literally be okay, but it would not。
be okay if I lost my mother.。
So from that moment on, I was telling myself, "All right, let's switch around."。
So now when the phone calls, I actually excuse myself, or I just pick it up, and I see what。
it is that's on her mind.。
Or if I really can't, I immediately WhatsApp her and say, "Oh, I really am in a meeting.。
What can I do for you?"。
And I think those little things, it's just a way because I wanted to honor her.。
I really want her to not have to struggle.。
Maybe sometimes she's at the fish market, and all her question is, "Do you want fish。
tonight?"。
And that was it.。
But I don't want her to be hanging for a few hours.。
And to really make her important in my life and every day kind of looks like this.。
And every day when I go home, I would go into her...。
Well, if she's already in her room, I'll go into her room, or we'll just be at the dinner。
table, and I would share with her the whole day, what happened.。
And you know what?。
I just want to let you know, she probably knows more about you guys than you guys know,。
because I've told her everything about everybody.。
But because I think, what is it that she wants?。
What is it that our parents want?。
Isn't it to connect with their children?。
Isn't it to be a part of their lives?。
But then maybe sometimes you just go home, shut our door, and if they ask, "Oh, how was。
your day?"。
Or, "How did that date go?"。
You're kind of, "Don't ask me."。
But maybe if we prioritize them, and if we engage them in our lives, then it will open。
a door for us to connect together.。
And the third one is a little bit hard to say, because...。
So one time, I find my mom to be annoying.。
Oops, hi, Mommy.。
And what happened was...。
So I went home, and I was like, "Oh, well, thank God I can actually get off on time that。
one day."。
And so I was sitting on my couch, just turning on the TV, that time in me time, okay?。
Nobody bugs me now.。
And so this small, still voice, which is not God, comes out from the end of the hall, okay?。
And it's like, "Hey."。
Oh, hey.。
And then she tells me, "Oh, I have this bump, this bump."。
And I'm like, "Okay, I know you have had it for like two months."。
I thought to myself, "And I asked you to go to the doctor, which you didn't."。
And so she's like, "It's seeping blood."。
I'm like, "Okay, but I'm watching TV."。
And so she goes around the house trying to find a band-aid, and of course, they never。
find it.。
And the band-aid don't know where they went at that time.。
All the other times, the band-aid just kind of lies on the table.。
But just the moment when you need it, you can't find it.。
So in my head, I was thinking, "Mom, honestly," in my head, I was like, "I just wanna sit。
there, do nothing.。
Can you take care of yourself?"。
I thought for a moment, "There's really nothing much I can do."。
But then another thought came to mind, and I was like, "I guess she is in a lot of pain.。
It has been there for two months.。
It must have bothered her.。
And of all the people, she wanted me to care for her at that time, that particular time."。
So what did I do?。
I got up, turned off the TV, went to her room to make sure I know exactly, is it a two by。
two or is this four by two?。
Make sure I buy the band-aid that would be big enough to cover the bump.。
So I went down to Man Lane, which is just about to close.。
I got the band-aid, went back, cut it up, stuck it on her skin.。
Did she get better?。
What do you think?。
No, of course not, I'm not a doctor.。
But in her heart, she felt important.。
She felt that she was important in my heart, and she felt that I cared for her above my。
own needs first.。
And that moment, I think she really cherished the time where I cared for her.。
And I think that was priceless.。
And so why am I sharing these things with you is because I feel like many a times we。
think about what it means to honor God, and we think that it's the big stuff.。
It's the big decisions, but really it's not.。
It's the small ones.。
It's the everyday life little stuff.。
And yet those little stuff tells us, "Is she important?"。
Are you willing to consider them first, or yourself first?。
It's a way to honor them, right?。
Are you willing to take care of them?。
Are you willing to obey even though you really don't want to?。
I mean, most of this stuff isn't against the Lord.。
There's like one in like a hundred.。
And yet, are we willing to go that extra mile because they're important to us?。
And also because God said that it is important to Him that we honor our father and mother.。
And by doing these little things, we are already pleasing the God that we believe in.。
And we don't want to be hypocrites.。
We don't.。
Jesus said, "If we'd done everything else, but we just go home and pretend that we've。
already done what God has asked, then we would have missed the mark."。
So I wanted to show you a photo of my mom because she probably has her back.。
Can't press.。
Can someone help me at the back?。
I want to press the one with my mom's photo.。
Oh, there we go.。
This is from Mother's Day.。
Now you can see what she looks like because she knows so much about you guys.。
It's only fair that you know a little bit about her.。
And yeah, and you might have thought, "Oh, I've never even spoken of my dad, my father,。
because tomorrow is technically...。
Not technically, it is.。
It is Father's Day."。
Well, that's because my father passed away for more than 20 years ago.。
And for me to honor him, even though he's not here, is I don't really do do things,。
but he's in my heart.。
He's important in my heart.。
But tomorrow we are going to do something.。
I'm going to go to the flower market and like always on those special days, I'm going to。
pick out the best looking flower and I'm going to not buy the $20, you know, the small plants.。
I'm going to buy them a big bouquet.。
Not because I don't suppose, I don't know if he sees it.。
This is another theological question that we'll have to talk about another time.。
But because I wanted to honor him.。
He is still important in my heart.。
And when someone is, it doesn't matter where they are or what they've done or how long。
it has been.。
You still treasure it and you still want to honor them.。
So tomorrow, oh, it's showing, okay, so this is my dad and me.。
It's pretty cute back then, eh?。
Forcing you guys all to agree with me.。
But I just wanted to say that honoring our father and mother is so important in God's。
heart.。
And earlier today, actually while we were praying, I was crying.。
I was crying not because I have to preach and I'm not sure how I'm going to do.。
I was crying because I just think, God, you wanted it so badly for us to honor our father。
and mother.。
And I'm so afraid that I don't do the just of it.。
I'm afraid that I'm not doing a good job, that you're not understanding how much God。
wants it.。
And so I just pray that it's in our heart that what God wants is actually the blessings。
that he wants to give to us.。
When we honor our father and mother, that promise doesn't say, "Then God is happy."。
It doesn't even say, "Then your parents are happy."。
It says that so that you would live long in the land that the Lord, your God has given。
you.。
It's a way for God to want to bless us.。
It's not a constraint.。
It is a blessing.。
So today I hope that God has spoken to you each individually what that honoring means.。
Maybe it means going out with them to dim sum for some of you.。
Maybe it means that you'll go with them to the doctor's appointment.。
Maybe it means that you'll be like me where you're now going to reply every single call。
that she has at the most inappropriate time.。
Whatever that may look like, maybe it's buying the band-aid at a very odd hour.。
I don't know what that looks like for you, but you know what?。
Only you could care for your parents the way that they wanted to.。
I can't care for your parents and neither can you care for mine, but God has placed。
them in our lives so that we could do that.。
And that's such an honor for us.。
So while we close now, let us pray together really for God to continue to speak to us.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much that you've given us parents, father and mother,。
people that had brought us into this life and they were the first relationships that。
we've ever had, the first encounter of what you and your love look like.。
And Father, today I'm sure that you're speaking to all of us in a very special way.。
How can we honor our parents starting this Father's Day and for many days to come?。
And Father, we just pray that we will follow your commandments because it is important。
to you.。
And if it's important to you, Father, then it's important to us.。
And we pray that we will follow your ways, not only to honor them, but as a way to honor。
you because you're worthy of our praises and honor.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
