Yeah, I'm really excited to be here tonight.。
So you've been warned.。
I know God has put a message in my heart and whether or not you're ready, it's going to。
come at you.。
But first, some of you are meeting me for the first time, so I just want to spend a。
few minutes to tell you about myself and our ministry.。
So I am an only child who was born and raised in Hong Kong.。
I grew up in a very controlled and comfortable environment and the world centered around。
me and I loved it.。
And so when I was in medical school and God asked me to serve in Africa, I objected and。
detailed in my journal seven great reasons why I should never be a missionary.。
I like efficiency and convenience.。
I do not like waiting or adventures.。
I love sashimi and air conditioning.。
I do not like camping or creepy crawlies.。
So one day I argued with God again about how ridiculous it was to send unsuitable me to。
Africa.。
And then I realized that I either really believe God to be who he says he is or I don't actually.。
And if I really do believe him to be God, that it would only make sense for me to trust。
and obey and go to Africa even though I just did not think I had the patience or the strength。
or the courage to survive in Africa.。
So I wrote in my journal next to my seven reasons why I should never be a missionary。
three words, "Lose your life," and said yes to a calling to Africa.。
And the very next day I met my gorgeous husband Henri who I got to marry four years later。
and together we founded the charity New Side Eye Care.。
So our calling comes from Luke 10 9 that says, "Heal the sick and tell them the kingdom of。
God is near you."。
Ninety percent of vision loss in this world is preventable or treatable.。
And so we are passionate about helping people see both physically and spiritually.。
So our first mission was in Gabon, Africa where we led a non-profit eye surgical center。
until it reached self-sufficiency.。
And then in 2012 we then with our children then age six, three, and one moved to the。
Republic of Congo, founded the charity New Side and established our first eye center。
in a little place in the middle of a rainforest called Mfondo.。
And then in 2019 God moved us to Wesso where we live today and have started a second eye。
surgical center with a training center and we're in the process of building an eye hospital。
due to be completed this year.。
So we've just celebrated 10 years of New Side so I just wanted to show you a little bit。
of the history of our charity which someone told me history actually is the word "his。
story."。
This is really all about God's story.。
I went too fast.。
It didn't play.。
Let's see.。
There we go.。
It's really, really, really simple.。
Really simple.。
You know you see a patient today, if you've got a chance to operate him you can operate。
him and tomorrow morning you'll be able to see.。
Very, very simple.。
That's amazing.。
When someone can see again, the whole life is transformed.。
Their lives are transformed and their family's lives are transformed, sometimes even the。
community.。
It's something really tangible.。
So for us, yes, it is probably a bit crazy to go but it's crazier to know that we can。
do something about it and not do it.。
So it was in 2012 when we moved from the UK to the Republic of Congo and we started the。
country's first eye surgical centre and we started by building an extension.。
You can keep the music up a little bit.。
And then there in 2013 we opened our first eye centre and 2019 like I said we moved to。
Weso.。
And God just kept growing the ministry and we added, we moved to a bigger building and。
then we added a new building for surgery and then later on we added another building for。
the training centre.。
And in 2022 we began construction of an eye hospital in six hectares of land.。
There is a ground breaking and we're really excited that the eye block will be completed。
by this year.。
So obviously our main bulk of our ministry is about medical services and to date we've。
seen over, we've performed over 20,000 consultations and helping people who would otherwise suffer。
from blindness and visual disability.。
We're honoured to be the country's first and only manufacturer of prescribed glasses.。
And we're really honoured too that up until now we've received 100% positive patient feedback.。
Community outreach is really important to us and it's in our heart to really go to the。
places that are hard to reach otherwise.。
And as a result of COVID God actually opened a lot of opportunities for us so that we've。
actually served every household in the town of Weso.。
And then 2021 we began our partnership working with over 30 local schools and we've also。
started producing the country's first and only children's magazine which today has over。
20,000 readership.。
We've run various courses be it introduction to healthcare or nurses because obviously。
if we do not empower the local community the project will not be sustainable.。
We're really proud of our students who have already completed their theory training and。
they're in the process of doing their practical training.。
And God's just miraculously opened up many opportunities to work with the local government。
as well as companies and charities and you might start seeing people that are schools。
and churches and organisations and professionals who've been a part of this.。
Part of our ministry has opened up opportunities to empower children to make a difference.。
We have a project called Project Two Frontiers which is about helping children see the needs。
of the world and understand that they too can make a difference.。
We thank God for all these volunteers and short term missionaries who have come to join。
us in our work and they're supporting us on the field or from home in Hong Kong or elsewhere。
in the world.。
And we really took the time to put these photos in because we wanted Guangfuk Church to really。
see for yourself.。
It's not just about a missionary family somewhere in the middle of a rainforest doing their。
thing but like the Bible said how can we go unless we're sent and we're only possible。
there because of people like an architect who is a volunteer from Guangfuk or not just。
medical but also accountants, lawyers and it doesn't matter wherever you are God can。
use you to serve him in the mission field.。
So here we are, here's God's story that is continuously written and we really just want。
to take this opportunity to really thank Guangfuk Church for all the support.。
We really couldn't have done it without you.。
So now if you'd like to find out more about New Side please do find us on social media。
or talk to us afterwards.。
We would love to invite you to find out more about what God is doing in Africa.。
But now here is the message I got really excited about.。
So ready or not it's coming.。
So we're going to start with a little home video.。
I don't know, our kids love watching themselves over and over again.。
So here's one of our little girl 10 years ago.。
I think you have to press play maybe.。
Okay so if you're taking notes the title of the message today is "Who me?。
Yes you."。
So let me take you to the year 2019.。
We were at the time in the UK fundraising and preparing to move into Westall to pioneer。
our second eye surgical centre.。
Now setting up the first eye centre and raising a young family in the middle of a rainforest。
the first time round was not easy.。
That first year I cried every night.。
Mostly because I was so worried about my disastrous attempt to homeschool the three。
kids.。
But I also obviously also missed my family, my friends.。
I missed having reliable electricity, water, internet, car fuel and of course my beloved。
sashimi.。
I missed you know just being able to go to the supermarket or go to concerts.。
Basically the life I knew.。
When things broke down there was just no easy way to have it replaced.。
I also really struggled with the local way of doing things not to mention the threat。
of riots, armed rebels or dangerous so-called roles, snake scorpions in our yard.。
So to see you know the blind see again it's always amazing.。
But to me even to the blind it's really obvious that I'm not suitable for this mission life.。
So here we were preparing to move to this new town to take on our biggest challenge。
yet a multi-million dollar construction project in six hectares of land and my anxiety level。
started to go up.。
While we were being we were invited by the local authorities we didn't actually know。
anyone there and we tried to find a place for our family and our team and the three。
requirements were electricity, water and a toilet inside the house.。
It took months and we couldn't find anything.。
So you know we couldn't even manage to find a place to live.。
How are we gonna do this big hospital project?。
Do we really have what it takes?。
So one day as I was packing and like mentally preparing myself for how hard it was going。
to be out of the blue God said to me, "Hey Joyce, you think I can change the hearts of。
murderers?"。
"Yes, God."。
"You think how about like drug addicts and you know alcoholics, can I change them?"。
"Yes, God."。
So Joyce, how come you believe that I God can change those people and yet you cannot。
believe that I can change you?。
Why do you always think that you're gonna struggle in a developing country?。
Why do you not think that I can make you strong, brave and patient like your husband?。
Why do you not think that I can find a way so that even when it's really hot and sweaty。
and there's no electricity and water, you can actually be comfortable?。
This is a new season Joyce, God said.。
This time you're not just gonna go out there and give new sight physically, spiritually。
to other people, but you yourself are going to have new sight.。
You're going to stop seeing yourself the way you've always seen yourself or how other people。
see you.。
But you're gonna learn to have new sight to see you the way that I, your God, sees you.。
I'm gonna bring forth the person I've actually created you to be.。
So I said, "Okay God, that sounds good.。
But here's my little problem.。
I find it a whole lot easier to believe the things you say about you than the things you。
say about me.。
I trust you God, but me, I don't trust so much.。
You see, you are really patient, but I really hate waiting.。
And you are strong and brave, but I'm not a risk taker.。
You do great things God, but me do great things?。
Like that just sounds a little arrogant.。
And you know, you tell me that I'm more than a conqueror, but like have you seen me succumbing。
to like stage fright, you know, vomiting sessions?。
Have you seen my self-pity parties and my meltdowns when things don't go my way?。
I know you are God, but have you perhaps confused me with someone else?。
Like my Superman husband perhaps?。
Why would you call me something that I obviously am not?"。
There was a man in the Bible who I think may have asked God the same question.。
And his name was what we just read.。
What's his name?。
Gideon.。
And thank you Sebastian for reading Judges chapter six for us.。
So the Israelites were having a national crisis.。
Every year after they had done all the hard work and they were ready to harvest, what。
would happen?。
These Midianites was charging, ransack, and steal everything, so much so that they were。
starving.。
These bullies were like locusts and they were too numerous to count.。
Now these Midianites and Israelites can both trace their lineage to Abraham, which makes。
them distant cousins.。
So anyone ever had pests or problems even from within your family who just seem to keep。
coming back to drain and overwhelm you again and again?。
For the Israelites, this complete devastation and injustice, you know, having been going。
on for seven years, just when they start to recover from the last crisis, it's like, "Oh,。
here we go again.。
Not them again."。
But then they come to expect it.。
It's just the way it is.。
You see though, it wasn't just food that they lost.。
They also lost their peace and security, their confidence, and maybe even trust, because。
even their family was not good to them.。
They had lost their way of life and it's easy to see that they might even feel that they've。
been abandoned by God.。
You see, the enemy doesn't just steal the things that we can see like food.。
He comes and steals the things we can't see as well.。
So if, for example, you've lost your job, then the enemy comes and takes your confidence。
as well.。
Or you lose your health and the enemy just comes and steals your hope.。
Or you lose your marriage and the enemy comes after your self-worth.。
So if you're looking in the Bible, in verse 11, here when we meet the two main characters,。
you have the angel of the Lord, which my Bible commentary tells me is the incarnate Jesus。
Christ himself, and Gideon, who God calls him "mighty warrior."。
Now these two words, "mighty warrior," is the reason I imagine that Gideon might have。
asked the same question I asked God.。
Why would you call me something that I obviously am not?。
You see, when God called Gideon as a mighty warrior, everything screamed that he was anything。
but a mighty warrior.。
You know, do you remember how in PE in school, and the teacher asked you to split into teams,。
and you always choose the fittest, fastest person to be on your team, right?。
So here God picks and calls out Gideon, who not only is the smallest and the weakest,。
but he's never played the game before, he doesn't know the rules of the game, and you。
know what the worst thing is?。
That guy doesn't even want to play.。
I mean, come on, seriously, God.。
This is the guy you pick, you call him "mighty warrior," star player?。
So normally after the harvest, in the story, the farmer would take the grain to the threshing。
floor, and to separate the shaft, the useless part, from the grain.。
So they toss it up in the air, and the lighter shaft would just be blown away by the air,。
and then while the heavier grain would fall onto the ground.。
So for this to work, you need an open air, where there is wind, which is why threshing。
floors are usually up on top of a hill.。
So where was Gideon, this supposed star player/mighty warrior, whom God personally came to headhunt。
for the team?。
Where was he?。
He was as far removed from the hilltop as possible.。
He was in a wine press, which is basically a hole buried deep into the ground, because。
he was scared of the million knights.。
With no wind or ventilation, he had to work extra hard and make do.。
I'm imagining he must be angry, and frustrated, and dejected, and all he could think about。
is "I just need to survive, me and my family."。
That's all he's thinking about.。
But you know, no matter what trouble we're under, no matter how far we try to hide away。
from God, he always has a way to find us and meet us right where we are.。
Because God is an expert at making all things work together for our good, even in the circumstances。
that we hate.。
Okay, now, let's be fair and give our friend Gideon some credit here.。
He might be scared and comfortable, but he was so faithfully doing what he needed to。
do.。
Threshing, especially threshing so inefficiently, like I hate inefficiency, like, you know,。
it could not have been fun.。
But how true it is that it is often amid our day-to-day boring stuff that we come to experience。
God and his power.。
So here we have God, you know, Gideon hiding and being super jumpy.。
So does any of this look like mighty aurora like to you?。
And yet God is calling him that, mighty warrior.。
Now the Bible doesn't tell us what went through Gideon's mind when God called him mighty warrior,。
but if God had called me that, I would have said, "Who, me?。
Who, me?。
Like, I really struggle with that kind of thing all my life, like, I don't think I can。
do that."。
Yes, you.。
Oh, no one in my family's ever done that kind of thing.。
You know, I just can't see myself doing it.。
Yes, you.。
But I don't want to look stupid, okay?。
I don't want to let anyone down, like, I've tried that before.。
I wouldn't even know where to start.。
And God says, "Yes, you."。
That's not me, that's not who I am.。
I don't think, I don't want, I don't think.。
I can, I can't, I can't, I don't want.。
Yes, you.。
You know, don't get me wrong, self-awareness is important.。
It helps us identify and assess our personality, emotions, strengths and weaknesses.。
It is what saves you from going viral if you can't sing and you go on American God's Talent,。
okay?。
That is important.。
But the better we, and the better we understand ourselves and our tendency towards sin and。
weaknesses, the clearer we can see how we need to go.。
So healthy self-awareness is biblical.。
And healthy self-awareness, on the other hand, is dangerous.。
When instead of using self-awareness as a helpful set of observations, we take it on。
as our identity, our destiny, and our excuses for not trying to overcome sin and weaknesses.。
You know, for you and I, when we consider trying something, we make evaluations based。
on our resumes, you know, references, competency test results, bank balances, you know, people。
we have on our contact list.。
God is not like us.。
He does not call us according to our past performances, and he calls us according to。
our potential.。
In fact, he calls things that are not as though they were.。
Abraham was childless, and God calls him Abraham, the father of many nations.。
Simon was emotionally unstable, and God calls him Peter, the rock.。
Gideon?。
Well, God saw the potential in Gideon.。
Gideon did not see it.。
Nobody else saw it.。
Only God saw Gideon's potential.。
Gideon didn't know that he was going to lead an army and win one of the most spectacular。
battles of all time.。
He would be shocked, I think, to find that he could actually fight.。
He didn't know that he was going to make it into the Book of Judges and the Hebrews Hall。
of Fame, and that thousands of years later we will hear in Gong Fuk Check Talk learning。
from him.。
I think Gideon would be shocked more than anybody else to hear that he was the answer。
that he and his country have been praying for.。
God did not call Gideon by who he was, but by who he was made to be, and by who he will。
become.。
First Corinthians 1.26 says, "Think of what you were when you were called.。
Not many of you were wise by human standards, influential or of noble birth.。
But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise.。
God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong.。
God chose the lowly things of the world and the despised things, and that the things that。
are not to nullify the things that are, so that no one may boast before him."。
So the moment God called Gideon a mighty warrior, Gideon said, verse 15, "Excuse me, sir.。
How can it be?。
I'm from the smallest clan.。
I'm at least a family, and in case you haven't noticed, I'm literally in a pit."。
All throughout history, people have made similar attempts to educate and correct God.。
Moses said, "But I can't speak."。
Jeremiah said, "But I'm too young."。
And I said, "I'm a spoiled only child, and I have elderly parents to look after, and。
whatever way you look at it, I just don't look like those super gracious missionaries。
who bake, sew, and homeschool."。
You know, it's so easy to talk ourselves out of our dreams and build a case to support。
who we think we are and dissuade ourselves from going forward.。
We must decide who is going to win this internal war.。
On one hand, we have the me I knew and grew up around, or the me I was actually created。
to be.。
Whether or not we get out of the pit will determine the trajectory of our lives.。
Recently, I had to drive in Congo for 12 hours, and the roads in Congo, I don't actually。
like to call them roads, because they're full of potholes, and I'm just, I am scared of。
them.。
So my Superman husband tried to encourage me and said, "Just don't worry, you'll do。
fine, you'll do great."。
And I went there and I said, "Oh, it's easy for you to say.。
I'm not like you.。
Stop saying it's easy.。
It's going to be really hard.。
Like, what if I fall asleep?"。
And as soon as I said that, God asked me, "Who told you that?。
Who told you that you cannot drive like Henri?。
Who told you who you are and who you are not?。
Who told you what you can and what you cannot do?"。
No one, not me, not you, not anyone can tell us who we were created to be except God.。
If we live life according to our own understanding, it is a problem.。
It is a, because it is a problem and it is a possible to, it is possible to go through。
life not actually knowing how tough and brave we really are or what we're capable of.。
Only God knows our full potential.。
We cannot lean on our own understanding of ourselves.。
We must trust God to tell us who we are and what we are actually capable of.。
Ask yourself this, what would happen if you stop hiding under the labels, images, and。
expectations that you or others have placed on you?。
God is calling and bringing forth the real you, the you that he created you to be.。
Don't you want to meet the you that you have yet to meet?。
Today, just as God called the mighty warrior out from the pit of insecurity into his divine。
and plans and purposes, God is calling the mighty warrior out of you.。
This is not for the sake of some self-gratification or self-actualization.。
It is so that you can help others and perhaps even change a nation, just as Gideon did.。
It is for a purpose that is bigger than you or your family.。
You need to know that becoming all that God has created you to be is not about self-improvement,。
but it is the best thing that you can do for others and the best gift you can give to your。
loved ones.。
Okay, so let's say I accept that maybe I can be more than other people think, and I accept。
that I have a purpose bigger than myself.。
But I mean like how is that actually supposed to work?。
Like what am I supposed to do?。
And the answer is in verse 14.。
Go in the strength you have and save Israel out of Midian's hand.。
Am I not sending you?。
Go in the strength you have.。
And I say, "Sorry, say what, God?"。
Like aren't you going to give me like some new ability and some new strength to do this。
new thing?。
Nope.。
God doesn't do ready, set, go.。
He does it the opposite way.。
He does go and set and ready.。
So go and start with what is already in your hands.。
Go with those five loaves and two fish.。
Go with five little pieces of stones and just go in the strength that you have.。
Gideon's strength was small, but it was enough.。
It was enough because God made up the difference.。
Whatever we lack, God makes up for it.。
Our strength is limited, but God's strength is unlimited.。
Our strength is exhaustible, which is why we get exhausted.。
But God is inexhaustible.。
God never runs out of anything.。
Now my guess is that if Gideon had been braver and gone out the next day together in an army,。
he would have won.。
But he wasn't there.。
So he took baby steps and God could totally work without baby steps.。
Like he couldn't even summon the courage to ask.。
He had to ask for multiple fleeces and signs.。
And God wasn't annoyed.。
God responded with multiple miracles.。
Gideon was too scared to destroy the false gods during the day.。
So when did he do it?。
At night when no one's watching.。
But hey, he did it.。
Verse 27 says, "He did as the Lord told him."。
God can and will work with whatever we have and are willing to give him.。
So go in the strength you have.。
Go in the time you have.。
Go with the money and resources you have.。
Go with what you know.。
Go with what you don't know.。
Go with what you can do.。
Go with what you cannot do.。
Go with whatever you currently have, no matter how small and insignificant you think it is.。
Go and God will make up the rest.。
Because when you go, God will then get you set and ready.。
As Gideon gave his life to God and took baby steps, it really wasn't like God gave him。
a box.。
You know, if you know Chinese cartoon, it's not like ding dong, okay, with a baguette.。
It's not like God said, "Here, buddy.。
Everything you have is in there."。
God himself went with him.。
This says that God Almighty himself came on him and empowered him.。
And as a result, because of God's spirit, Gideon became that mighty warrior who defeated。
the Midianites and freed an entire nation.。
The Apostle Paul said this about Gideon and other ordinary people turned extraordinary。
heroes.。
In the Passion translation, it said, "Faith sparked courage within them, and they became。
mighty warriors in battle, pulling armies from another realm into battle array."。
Another translation said this, "They were weak, but were made strong."。
They were weak, but were made strong.。
It was after work on a Friday evening.。
My husband only got into a taxi to go home, and inside were two other passengers and the。
taxi driver.。
This is very common practice in Congo to share a cab.。
And the driver said, "I'm gonna drop the other two passengers off, and then I'm gonna drop。
you off."。
My husband said, "Okay."。
They started driving further and further away, and before you know it, they were approaching。
the boundary of the town where the police station was.。
And my husband said, "You know what?。
Just drop me here.。
I'll take another taxi.。
I didn't know you were gonna go this far."。
And the guy said to him, "Oh, you know, just if you say..."。
Actually, what the guy said was, "If you say another word, we'll kill you."。
That's what he said.。
They drove further and further away, and they were soon approaching a roundabout, which。
my husband recognized, and he knew by then they were already 25 kilometers away from。
the town.。
And one of the passengers then turned around to my husband and looked up and down him and。
said, "You're the surgeon from the eye clinic."。
And my husband said, "Yes."。
And this guy then turned around to his other passenger and the driver and said, "We should。
not hurt this one."。
They started arguing in a Cameroonian dialect, so my husband couldn't really understand what。
they were saying.。
As they were busy arguing, my husband quietly slipped his iPhone out from the taxi window,。
hoping that someone would find that phone and find him.。
They continued driving for three hours.。
It was getting darker and darker, and they were deeper and deeper into the forest.。
And then suddenly, the kidnappers stopped the car and pushed my husband out from the。
car.。
My husband called this the most terrifying moment of his life.。
He thought, "This is it.。
They're gonna kill me."。
And then to his surprise, they told him to go.。
They said, "Go, but don't you dare report us because we know who you are, who your family。
is, where you live, where you work, and if you do that, there'll be repercussions."。
And then they drove off.。
So while my husband was really relieved that he was alive, he now finds himself in the。
middle of a rainforest where there are gorilla, snake, scorpions.。
He had no idea where he was.。
He had no idea which direction to start heading.。
So what do you do?。
You walk by faith and not by sight, because you can't even see the fingers.。
You just start walking.。
And he called this the longest, darkest, most traumatic, stressful, and tiring night of。
his life.。
We're seeing the darkest valley, right?。
It was just horrific.。
And to this day, my husband cannot tell you how on earth, not knowing where he was, which。
direction to go, and not being able to see, how he managed to get back to that roundabout。
that he knew.。
And he can also not tell you how on earth he managed to use his feet and find his iPhone,。
and how on earth that that screen monitor was not damaged.。
It was not even cracked.。
So by midnight, our team realized that Anri was missing.。
So a search party was going on.。
We tried to find my apps.。
There's no phone signal, da-da-da.。
And it was just...。
Everybody was trying to find him.。
And finally, by eight in the morning, he finally had phone signal, called me, and then very。
soon after, he was home safe.。
I just think, who gets kidnapped and comes home with his iPhone, Apple Watch, and wallet?。
To us, Anri really was not alone that night.。
We sang it, "God is our shepherd.。
He's with me, behind me.。
God and his angels never left his side."。
Now after the abduction, we learned from the locals that during that time of the year,。
there are groups who would travel several kilometers from another country with the intention。
to kill or take body parts for human sacrifice.。
We will never know the true motives of Anri's abductors, but given that they never once。
talked about money or possessions, it did seem that at least likely that they were after。
my husband to kill him and offer him as a human sacrifice.。
There's this worship song that says, "If I'm not dead, then you're not done."。
So since the abduction, those lyrics are taken on a whole sort of different meaning.。
We figure that since God spared Anri's life, he must have something more for him to do.。
Since then, we have also developed a deeper appreciation of the Bible verse that says,。
"My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.。
Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses so that Christ's power。
may rest on me.。
That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions,。
difficulties.。
For when I am weak, then I am strong."。
I think about the words, like, "I delight in weaknesses, insults, hardships, difficulties,。
persecutions."。
Let's put that on a fridge magnet or in a bookmark.。
Says no one ever.。
I mean, in our world, weakness is perceived as something negative.。
And yet, in Psalm 84, 5, it says that God blesses all who depend on him for strength.。
The weaker we are, the more we depend on God.。
And the more we depend on God, the stronger we get, and the more blessed we become.。
Now maybe you've not heard of that song about, "If I'm not dead, then you're not dead."。
But this one, I'm sure you all know.。
It's called, "Jesus Loves Me."。
Jesus loves me, this I know for the Bible tells me so.。
And then it says what?。
They are weak, but he is strong.。
Okay, it is true.。
When we are weak, then he is strong.。
But actually, what the Bible says is, "When I am weak, I am strong."。
It's not just when I'm weak, God is strong.。
When I am weak, I am strong.。
Who?。
Me?。
Yes, you.。
In every situation, you, yes you, you can choose to tap in the power of the almighty。
God.。
This power can set you free from sin, fears, worries, and anything that seeks to bind and。
hold you down.。
This power enables you to become all that God has created you to be.。
In Christ, we can be the person, the parent, the spouse, the servant, the child, the worker,。
the student, the mighty warrior we long to be.。
God's power cannot be separated from his purposes.。
His power is to enable us for his assignments for a bigger purpose.。
Your future and the future of others depend on the decision you choose today.。
Today God has come to you as he came for Gideon.。
Today God is giving you the same promise to be with you, the same calling to be a mighty。
warrior.。
Your history and appearance may not be that of a mighty warrior, but your future and your。
destiny is that of a mighty warrior.。
Get used to saying it.。
I find it uncomfortable, but start saying it because that's who God's calling you to。
be.。
Today God is calling you to stop hiding and come out of the pit to meet the you that you。
have yet to meet.。
The you God created you to be.。
In the same way he asked Gideon to destroy the idols, he's asking you to say goodbye。
to sin and anything you place above him, to say yes to him to be your Lord and personal。
savior, to worship him and receive his peace.。
God is calling you to go make those baby steps in the strength you already have, resting。
in the confidence that God will make up for whatever you lack.。
Who me?。
Yes, you.。
Shall we pray?。
Heavenly fathers, so often we find it hard to believe that we are a masterpiece, but。
we thank you that we are your masterpiece.。
Thank you for reminding us today that we are not defined by our weaknesses or feelings.。
Forgive us for the times when we devalued your design by comparing ourselves with others。
or by insisting on replacing it with an image of who we think we should be.。
Help us not to lean on our own understanding of ourselves and our abilities, but to trust。
you with all our hearts for your opinion and plans for us.。
Teach us who we are and who you want us to be.。
Show us how to live and what you want us to do.。
In every situation, help us stay connected to your power so that we can serve your plans。
and your purposes for your glory and praise.。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
Amen.。
Man.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
