I'll be honest with you all, and I shared this with some of you, I had a bit of a difficult。
time preparing for the sermon.。
And the reason for this is because I was struggling to figure out what this book meant, what Ecclesiastes。
meant.。
You know, the first step to preparing a sermon or studying the Bible is to try to figure。
out what is the author trying to say.。
Read the word and see what God is speaking through the author.。
And I was stuck at this step.。
I don't know about you, but I find Ecclesiastes a bit of a difficult book to interpret.。
I find Paul's writings pretty, or much easier to understand, maybe because I'm a bit of。
a logical guy, I'm a math and science type of guy, and Paul is very logical, we vibe.。
He goes like, A is true because of B and C, therefore point D.。
On the other hand, Ecclesiastes isn't as straightforward.。
There's logic in it for sure, but we kind of have to look at the whole book and piece。
together the message of the book.。
There are opposing points held in tension.。
Sometimes he's quite negative about life.。
He says, "So I hated life because what is done under the sun was grievous to me, for。
all is vanity and a striving after wind."。
But at other times he's positive and there's real wisdom in what he's saying.。
He also says, "I know that it will be well with those who fear God, because they fear。
before him."。
So as I'm reading this, I'm kind of thinking, make up your mind, do you hate life or do。
you not?。
Is there wisdom or is there not?。
What is going on?。
And as I was reading through the book, chewing through the preacher's train of thought, and。
recall there's two characters in Ecclesiastes.。
The author of the book, who shows up in the beginning and the end, but for the most part。
the author is relaying the words of this character called Koheleth.。
You'll also see him called the preacher or the teacher in our translations.。
Those are the meanings of this title Koheleth.。
But anyways, as I was struggling to make sense of the book, I thought maybe that's how Koheleth。
felt as well, trying to make sense of life.。
I think part of why Ecclesiastes is confusing and perplexing at times is because life itself。
is also confusing and perplexing.。
This book is wisdom literature.。
It shows us life as it is and reflects to us the reality of life back to us.。
Maybe this book isn't always linear and one-dimensional because life also isn't linear and one-dimensional.。
Life in Ecclesiastes has layers, like an onion or like Shrek.。
Life has layers and Ecclesiastes has layers.。
And my view of the book is that life is full of meaning when we know God.。
But even when we turn to Christ, there's still a real tint of vanity and frustration in this。
life.。
And I know you guys can maybe feel that.。
Or at least we still live in a world that is colored by vanity and frustration.。
We live in a broken world.。
We're living in what some call the already but not yet.。
Christ has already died and we already enjoy all the blessings that come from that.。
But he has yet to return and he has yet to make all things new.。
We are people who are already saved but we still yet live in a fallen world.。
I think in that lies some of the paradoxes and tensions in Ecclesiastes.。
The book is perplexing yet filled with meaning because life here and now under the sun in。
this life is perplexing but filled with meaning.。
And that's still true for us who know Christ but even more so for Koheleth who doesn't。
have the fuller picture yet.。
So I think that Koheleth here does speak true wisdom and he takes us on a journey wading。
through the frustrations of life.。
He does see God at work in the world but he doesn't see the full picture behind God's。
purpose in Christ.。
He saw in a mirror dimly to steal the words of Paul like how we also see in a mirror dimly。
and know in part.。
We like Koheleth are still working through the complexities and frustration of life now。
under the sun.。
Now with that in mind let's turn to chapter three.。
Chapter three is about time and toil.。
What's the point of the time we have under the sun here and now and what gain is there。
from all our toil under the sun.。
Koheleth lays out his thesis for this chapter in verse one.。
For everything there is a season and a time for every matter under heaven.。
In other words there is a time for everything.。
And Koheleth makes this point beautifully with a poem.。
It's quite a famous poem in fact.。
Maybe some of the older and wiser members of our congregation like Pastor John will。
remember a song from the 60s by the Byrds.。
They turned this poem into a song and it actually reached number one on the Billboard Top 100.。
But Koheleth takes us through a bunch of opposites.。
For example there's a time to be born and a time to die opposites.。
This poem isn't meant to be a comprehensive list of everything that happens in this life。
but he's using opposites to convey everything in the full spectrum that happens under the。
sun.。
Things happen here on earth.。
And also we can note that this poem isn't commanding us to do anything.。
It's a descriptive not prescriptive.。
The poem paints a picture and describes things that happen in this life.。
It's not, there's no command in here per se.。
It's not prescribing us to do anything right now.。
However there's still wisdom in understanding that there are in fact different times and。
different seasons in life and there's wisdom in living according to these differences.。
Verse two begins by saying there is a time to be born and a time to die.。
A time to plant and a time to pluck up what is planted.。
This verse refers to the beginning and end of life.。
I'm here right now because there was a time when I was born, March 31st, 1995.。
And unless Christ returns soon there will also be a time for me to die.。
And there will be a time for all of us to die.。
Time to plant and time to pluck up what is planted, that is the same idea.。
The beginning and end of life for plants.。
Verse three, a time to kill and a time to heal.。
A time to break down and a time to build up.。
Like verse two this refers to the beginning and end of things.。
Destruction and growth.。
Just across the street from where I live right now they tore down a parking lot and now they're。
building up a new apartment or some new stores.。
So breaking down and building up, we see this in this life.。
Verse four talks about emotions.。
There's a time to weep and a time to laugh.。
A time to mourn and a time to dance.。
There's both happy times and there's sad times.。
And this is true even in the Christian life, there's ups and downs.。
Romans 12 says, "Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep."。
There's both rejoicing and weeping here and now under the sun.。
And from this we can draw two observations from what we've seen so far.。
One is that we can't always control the times that we live in.。
We can't control when we die and we certainly can't control when we were born.。
We weren't born yet.。
And secondly, we should live wisely according to the times.。
There's a time to laugh but there's also a time to weep and mourn.。
Suppose you had a friend who was grieving the loss of a loved one.。
That's the time to mourn.。
You'd give them a hug, bring them tissues, cry with them.。
It's not the time to cheer them up by cracking jokes or making them laugh.。
It's not the time for that.。
That'd be inappropriate.。
It's not the time to be dancing or laughing.。
So there's different times and seasons in life.。
We can't always control them but we can live wisely according to them.。
You might want it to be the time to dance and laugh but if it's the time to mourn, you。
can't force it or control it.。
Let's continue in verse 5.。
A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together.。
A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing.。
Here casting away stones might refer to clearing a field like how they tore down the parking。
lot across from my apartment or gathering stones together in building up something again.。
There's also a time to embrace and there is a time for COVID.。
We know this all too well.。
Verse 6 deals with possessions.。
There's a time to seek and a time to lose, a time to keep and a time to cast away.。
There's a time to look for things and there's a time to give up and let go of something。
or maybe even someone.。
For example, if you're kayaking in Mui Wo and your phone falls into the ocean, you'd。
probably look for it but after a few hours or days, it's a time to give up, to lose,。
to carry on.。
Time to seek and a time to lose.。
Verse 7.。
There's a time to tear and a time to sew.。
Maybe this refers to the practice at the time of tearing your garments when you're mourning。
and then sewing it back together when that time is over or it could tie in with the next。
line.。
There's a time to be silent and sew your mouth shut so to speak and a time to speak up.。
Verse 8.。
A time to love and a time to hate.。
Time for war and a time for peace.。
We're very well aware now that there's both times for war and peace, for better or for。
worse.。
And we went quickly through these verses but again, the overall meaning of this poem here。
is that there's a time for everything and Kohele uses these opposites to illustrate。
that.。
It means that there's a time when everything happens.。
It happened in the past and it will continue to happen in the future and we can't always。
control what happens but there's still wisdom in knowing that there's different seasons。
in life and wisdom in acting accordingly based on the time and season that you're in.。
So we've established that there's a time for everything.。
So what?。
How does this relate to the rest of chapter 3?。
Well I think Kohele holds two viewpoints in tension.。
The first is that it's all hevel.。
It's all vanity.。
We talked about this word in previous weeks.。
It's a key word that occurs over and over in Ecclesiastes, though not much in chapter。
3, only once in verse 19 I believe.。
And it's translated vanity in the English Standard Version.。
As we talked about previously, it can mean futility, the lack of substance, profitlessness,。
pointlessness.。
There's also a sense of transience like a wind or vapor.。
If there is meaning, it escapes us like striving after the wind.。
And one response to this poem that Kohele brings forth is that life is confusing, it's。
perplexing, it's temporary.。
In verse 9, Kohele resumes his thought about work and toil from chapter 2, which Johnny。
preached about last week.。
He asks a rhetorical question.。
What gain has the worker from his toil?。
And he's not asking this question as if he didn't know.。
He's making the point here that there is no gain.。
Johnny taught us this last week in chapter 2.。
As Kohele reflects on work, he realizes and comes to the conclusion that it's all vanity。
and a striving after wind.。
We can see also that chapter 3 echoes chapter 1, where the author of the book sets forth。
the vanity of vanities.。
In verse 9, we have the same rhetorical question as in chapter 1, verse 3.。
What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun?。
Again implying no gain, vanity of vanities.。
Also we see opposites in this poem.。
There's a time to be born and a time to die, echoing bits of chapter 1.。
A generation goes and a generation comes.。
The sun rises, the sun goes down.。
The wind blows to the south and goes around to the north.。
There's a time for everything, but at the same time, there is nothing new under the。
sun.。
All the things in chapter 3 have already happened before.。
There's been birth and death.。
There's been killing, healing, weeping, laughter, mourning, and dance.。
There's been seeking, losing, keeping, casting away, love, war, hate, war, peace.。
All these things have happened before.。
There's nothing new under the sun.。
Yet Koheles seems to give us a glimmer of hope.。
He says in verse 11, "God has made everything beautiful in its time, and God has put eternity。
into man's heart."。
That sounds great, and it is great.。
God has beautifully arranged all the times.。
There's a purpose behind the things that are going on here on earth.。
It sounds wonderful on the surface, but there's a catch here at the end of verse 11.。
It says, "Yet so that he, or man, cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to。
the end."。
The beautiful ordering of times and eternity in our hearts is actually a source of frustration。
for Koheles.。
We can't see God's purposes, and it's frustrating.。
We can't see the meaning and purpose behind the things that are happening.。
There's war in Ukraine, there's a global pandemic, or why did she of all people get cancer?。
She was such a nice person.。
Why did he die so young?。
It all seems unfair.。
We only see a limited perspective, what's happening right in front of us in our lifetime.。
There's frustration there because we can't see beyond our perspective.。
We want to see eternity and the bigger purpose behind the things that are happening right。
now.。
It's kind of like an unfinished melody or an unresolved cadence.。
You guys know Beethoven's 5th symphony, it's a famous melody.。
But if I stop there, it's not satisfying, it's uncomfortable.。
You want to hear that last note.。
You want to know the purpose behind that whole song.。
That's what's going on here.。
God has put eternity in our hearts, but under the sun, the music is cut short, the movie。
ends early, all we see is right here, right now.。
There's only life under the sun.。
If that is true, if there's only life in this world, here and now, life in this age, then。
all is vanity and striving after wind.。
It's frustrating.。
Back to chapter 2, we can be hedonists, we can seek for pleasure, we can laugh, eat,。
enjoy our lives, but we all die.。
All is vanity and a striving after wind.。
We can live wisely, but everyone dies.。
So what's the point in living wisely?。
Why not just YOLO and do whatever you want?。
That also is vanity.。
What gain is there in work?。
You might work hard, but because of politics, you get passed up for the promotion, you don't。
get what you deserve.。
Or your boss gives you a lot of work at the last minute, you work overtime until 1am,。
but then the client changes his mind and all your work is scrapped at the end.。
That also is vanity.。
And we want to know the purpose behind the frustrations of this life.。
God has put eternity in our hearts.。
We're searching for meaning, meaning that is there.。
We might be able to feel the wind blowing, but meaning escapes us.。
We're striving after wind.。
So on one hand, Kohalath looks at the world and he sees that it's all heavel, it's vanity.。
But on the other hand, he reflects on the times and concludes a second thing, that everything。
happens for a purpose, so that we fear God.。
There's a time for everything under the sun and the purpose is so that we fear God.。
To clarify, when I say fear God here, I don't mean to be afraid or scared of God.。
I mean to fear him as in respecting and revering him.。
You can replace the word fear with worshipping God, perhaps.。
While life is frustrating, Kohalath perceives that God has appointed all the times.。
The one who sits above the sun has arranged and ordered all the things that happen under。
the sun.。
Verse 10 says, "I have seen the business that God has given to the children of man to be。
busy with."。
You see, God has done it.。
Or verse 14, "I perceive that whatever God does endures forever.。
Nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken away from it."。
Again, God has done it and what he does endures forever.。
We sang today about God's sovereignty, that he is sovereign over us.。
That is what Ecclesiastes is talking about here.。
God reigns above all.。
Our God is in the heavens and he does all that he pleases.。
Nothing can be added to what God has done, to God's plan, nor anything taken away from。
it.。
He is sovereign and we cannot fight his purposes.。
We see in verse 14 that God exercises his sovereignty for a reason, with a purpose.。
And that is, "so that people fear before him."。
See God has appointed the times.。
He has made the world so that, with a purpose, that we fear him.。
Everything that happens under the sun, God works out everything so that we know him and。
love him.。
And this doesn't mean that bad things will never happen.。
There's still injustice, there's sorrow and death.。
But what I mean is that everything, including birth and death, weeping, laughing, love and。
hate, war and peace, God's purpose for everything that happens under the sun is so that we know。
him, love him, and trust him.。
Paul says this in Romans 8.。
He says there's this glory that awaits us, but also in verse 20, "For creation was subjected。
to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that creation。
itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory。
of the children of God."。
So God subjected the world to futility and frustration.。
But this futility does not escape his control.。
God is in control over disease and war, injustice and death.。
And also, this futility isn't arbitrary.。
God isn't playing games with us.。
God subjected the world to futility in hope.。
He does it so that all of creation would find hope and freedom in him, in fearing him, knowing。
him and loving him.。
There is a glory and hope that awaits us.。
God made the world for us to enjoy, and he made it good.。
It wasn't futile in the beginning.。
But we all sinned against him and rebelled against him.。
And so he subjected the world to futility in order to point our sinful hearts back to。
him so that we wouldn't rest our hope and joy in the things he has made, but in God。
alone.。
If the pursuit of worldly pleasure gave us meaning, then we would make pleasure our God.。
If work gave us meaning, then we would make work our God.。
But all these things pale in comparison to knowing God.。
God is greater than all these things that we might hope in.。
And so God made life frustrating.。
He gave futility so that we wouldn't find our purpose and meaning in those things, but。
we would look to him and find freedom.。
And this frustration is really there, even for us who know Christ.。
Paul continues, "For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the。
pains of childbirth until now.。
And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown。
inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies."。
We who are saved, who have the Spirit of Christ in us, still live in a world that is marked。
by futility.。
There's still suffering and frustration.。
And as we groan inwardly, waiting for the hope of redemption, when Christ returns and。
make all things new, we still do that.。
We still sense this futility.。
And I think, actually, in a way, the whole book of Ecclesiastes actually meanders to。
this point.。
I think that Ecclesiastes is a bit of an exposition of the point in Romans 8.。
God subjected the world to futility so that we would discover that our ultimate purpose。
and meaning is found in God alone.。
After 12 chapters of Cohele's Reflections on Life, the author of Ecclesiastes concludes。
like this.。
He says, "The end of the matter, all has been heard.。
Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man.。
For God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil."。
At the end of it, after Cohele reflects on all the intricacies of life, good times, bad。
times, meaning and vanity, the author concludes that behind it all, our ultimate purpose is。
to fear God.。
The Westminster Catechism states it another way.。
It asks the question, "What is the chief end of man?。
What is our ultimate purpose?"。
The answer, "Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever."。
Restatement in a way of the end of Ecclesiastes 12.。
Our ultimate purpose is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever.。
God is better than anything in this life, pleasure, work, wisdom.。
And we find our ultimate meaning in glorifying him and enjoying him forever.。
That is why we live and breathe.。
He is the one who gives us joy.。
My question to us is, do we see life this way?。
Do we see God in this way?。
Do you live to glorify God?。
Is he your greatest joy?。
And if not, that may be a reason why life is extra frustrating on top of this futility.。
If we're not living according to our ultimate purpose and meaning, it's no surprise that。
life will feel purposeless and meaningless.。
This is a silly example, but it's like trying to sweep the floor with an orange.。
You're on your knees rubbing an orange on the ground and thinking and being frustrated,。
"Wow, this is a terrible broom."。
Of course it is.。
That's not the purpose of an orange.。
You're meant to peel it and eat it.。
That's not the point.。
And I think when we live without God, when we don't live to glorify him and enjoy him。
forever, we're doing that.。
We were made to fear God, to have a relationship with him.。
We were created so that we would be his people and he would be our God.。
I'm going to run through six reasons why we should fear God.。
Number one, God is the creator and source of all things.。
Verse 10 says, "I've seen the business that God has given to the children of man to be。
busy with."。
There is a time for everything and God made all of it.。
The time that we have, the life that we have, all of it originates from God.。
John 1 says of Jesus, "All things were made through him and without him was not anything。
made that was made."。
See God is the ultimate reality.。
We are not.。
God always exists, but our existence is completely dependent on him.。
He created us and in fact we would even cease to exist if it were not for God continuing。
to will us to exist, upholding us by the word of his power.。
Reason number two, God is eternal.。
God is eternal and we are not.。
There is not a moment when God did not exist and there will never be a moment when God。
does not exist.。
He is the only one without beginning and end.。
He is the alpha and omega.。
God has put eternity in our hearts, but we are finite.。
Verse 20 says, "All are from the dust and to dust all will return."。
But God endures forever.。
Reason number three is that God is sovereign.。
Verse 14 says, "Whatever God does endures forever.。
Nothing can be added to it nor anything taken away from it."。
God's will is absolute.。
Nothing escapes his control.。
Psalm 115 says, "Our God is in the heavens.。
He does all that he pleases."。
Nothing can be added to the will of God nor anything taken away from it.。
There is a time for everything, but God is sovereign over all of it.。
Birth and death, laughter, sorrow, war and peace.。
God is in control of everything.。
He is sovereign.。
And I mean absolutely everything.。
Abraham Kuyper famously said, "There is not a square inch in the whole domain of our human。
existence over which Christ, who is sovereign over all, does not cry, 'Mine.'。
God is sovereign."。
Reason three.。
Reason number four is that God is good.。
I don't want God's sovereignty to fly over our heads as an abstract doctrine.。
The sovereignty of God is meant to be beautiful.。
God's sovereignty deserves a front row seat in our hearts as our joy and hope and comfort。
in all the times that happen under the sun.。
God's sovereignty is beautiful because God is good.。
Not only is God absolutely sovereign, but his sovereignty is also absolutely for us。
in Christ.。
Romans 8 says, "All things work together for the good of those who love God, for those。
who are called according to his purpose."。
We see this in verse 11.。
He has made everything beautiful in his time.。
God has arranged every time, every season in a way that is beautiful and fitting for。
our good.。
Reason number five is that God will judge.。
Verse 17 says, "God will judge the righteous and the wicked, for there is a time for every。
matter and for every work."。
God is righteous and he is the judge of all the earth.。
There may be injustice now in this life.。
The wicked prosper.。
There are fools in power, or our just system might favor the rich and powerful.。
But God will judge every deed one day.。
The judge of all the earth will do right.。
Reason six we should fear God is that we are sinners.。
We know this because there is a time to die.。
Everyone dies one day.。
Verse 19 says, "As one dies, so dies the other.。
Like beasts, like animals, so we too will die."。
And we have a problem here.。
The problem is that God will judge and God is sovereign.。
God is good, but we are not.。
There was no death when God created the world, but death entered the world through sin.。
All of us have rebelled against God and the wages of sin is death.。
Death is God's righteous punishment for sin.。
And so we are left with this.。
All will die.。
And so you can say life is meaningless.。
Life sucks, then you die.。
What can we do?。
Kohalath asks the question, who can bring him to see what will be after him, after he。
dies?。
All die and who can save us?。
Kohalath didn't really have the answer.。
And we can ask the same question, who can save us?。
Who will deliver me from this body of death?。
But now we have an answer.。
This be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord.。
See the sovereign God who reigns above the sun came down to the earth to save us.。
Jesus, the son of God, was born as a man, as one of us.。
He lived like us under the sun in all the times that happened under the sun.。
There was a time for him to laugh at the wedding in Cana.。
And there's time to weep, like when Lazarus, his friend, died.。
There's a time to gather together his disciples.。
There's also a time when Judas betrayed him and Peter denied him three times.。
Yet despite all of life's complexities, Jesus lived a perfect life, one that none of us。
could ever live.。
And still, there was a time for Jesus to die.。
Jesus who never sinned died on the cross for our sins, taking on himself the wrath of God。
that we ourselves deserve for all who believe in him.。
But death was not the end for him.。
Jesus rose from the dead on the third day so that all who believe in him would be saved。
from death also and have new life in his name.。
And so when life is meaningless, you should look to Jesus.。
Jesus redeemed us from the futility of death.。
The eternity that God put in our hearts that brought us frustration, we have that eternity。
in Christ.。
Jesus also demonstrates to us God's sovereignty.。
We might see injustice under the sun.。
Maybe you don't like the time that you're in.。
I don't like that it's the time to weep.。
You want this time to pass.。
Maybe there's something you want to know, a question you want answered.。
You don't have knowledge that you want.。
You have to wait.。
In those times, we can find hope in the fact that God is sovereign.。
There was also a time for the Son of God to die, for him to go through suffering.。
But also, it was so very meaningful, completely meaningful.。
And so also, our frustrations right now are difficult but meaningful.。
We can suffer as Christ suffered, knowing that there's glory that awaits us all.。
The greatest evil that ever happened in the world, the murder of the Son of God on the。
cross.。
Over that, God was sovereign.。
He was in control.。
What sinful men meant for evil, God meant it for good.。
If God meant the greatest evil in history for good, what in your life can he not also。
work for good?。
If he is sovereign over the death of Jesus, he is sovereign over every other thing in。
our lives.。
If God was willing to give up his own Son, if God was good in that way, what good thing。
will he withhold from us whom he loves so dearly?。
So Jesus demonstrates to us God's sovereignty.。
He also gives us a new fear of God.。
The word fear can have two meanings.。
One is to be afraid or scared of God.。
And that's the fear we should have had without Christ.。
We were under the wrath of God and were worthy of judgment.。
But Jesus takes that fear of God away.。
We are justified in Christ.。
It is just as if we have never sinned.。
In Christ, we are no longer under the wrath of God and have no longer any reason to be。
afraid.。
And instead, God gives, Jesus gives us a new fear of God.。
We now fear God not in that we are afraid of him, but now Jesus opens our eyes so that。
we can see the beauty and glory and awe and majesty of God, that he is eternal, he is。
sovereign, and he is good.。
And so in Christ, we can bow down before God in worship.。
We can love him and see him as worthy of all glory and honor and praise.。
That is the fear of God that Jesus gives us.。
He allows us to fear God and to enjoy him forever.。
And now we're going to respond in song.。
We'll be singing a song called "Only Holy God."。
There are many rhetorical questions in Ecclesiastes.。
Kohalath asks a lot of questions.。
We saw a few today.。
What gain has the worker from his toil?。
Or who can bring him to see what will be after him, after death?。
And the answer, again, over and over, is nothing, nobody.。
There's no reason.。
There's no gain.。
We'll see another set of rhetorical questions in this song.。
Who else commands all the hosts of heaven?。
Who else can make every king bow down?。
What other beauty demands such praises?。
What other splendor outshines the sun?。
Who else could rescue me from my failing?。
Who else would offer his only son?。
And what's the answer to these questions?。
Again, nobody.。
Except for one.。
Only our holy God.。
That is the meaning that we have.。
That is our purpose.。
So let us glorify God and enjoy him forever.。
Let's pray.。
O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth.。
You, God, are beautiful, you are sovereign.。
You are worthy of all glory and honor and praise.。
You created us and you created us to know you.。
Lord, we pray that we would see this,。
that you would open our eyes to see Christ,。
that your spirit would work in us。
so that we would know you, fear you, and enjoy you forever.。
Help us to live wisely according to the times,。
the times that you've created.。
And Lord, use the life now,。
the life that we have here on earth.。
Use it so that we would know you。
and bring others to knowledge of you,。
to know your glory and beauty.。
Would we see your sovereignty and love it,。
would we praise you in good times and bad times.。
May it all point to a deeper love and joy in you.。
Lord, we give you thanks for all this in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
