It's great to be here.。
Good evening, and I'm very happy that we're continuing on the book of Ecclesiastes.。
We are on chapter four.。
Now today's topic, oh, I forgot to, I can take this off.。
So today's topic is life just isn't fair.。
I don't think any of us is unfamiliar with it.。
I mean, I can start off with something easy, like, you know, you go to a restaurant and。
what do you do?。
You order a plate of, let's say, spaghetti, right?。
So the waiter brings it on, but you know, he usually holds two of the same thing coming。
up because someone else also ordered it, right?。
So what do they do?。
They put down one on your table, and before you know it, you look at it, you're like,。
why is this a smaller portion than the other one that's just about to go to the other table,。
right?。
And the meat, it's all in that other plate.。
Life just isn't fair.。
And so you go and you want to pay for your groceries, right?。
What do you do?。
There are four lines.。
So you try your best to pick the one that would go the fastest, right?。
So you stay there, and all you see are the other three that's going, and you're the one。
that's stuck in the line that's not, because the person in front had an issue with the。
credit card.。
The barcode wouldn't go right.。
Life just isn't fair.。
I mean, how is it possible that we get everything kind of measured out exactly the same for。
all of us, right?。
Now today in Ecclesiastes chapter four, we see the preacher actually observing four things,。
three things that are unfair and futile.。
I mean, the first is where he tells us he sees oppression.。
Those who are in power oppressing those who don't have any.。
Now that is unfair.。
And then the second thing that we'll be looking at is those who work hard, because you want。
to work hard, right?。
And yet they're not fulfilled because all that's in their heart is envy, because there's。
never enough.。
Or those who have decided, you know what?。
Why bother?。
I'm just not going to do anything.。
And those people also are unsatisfied because when they don't do anything, they don't have。
enough.。
So what we see is work is unfair because you don't get to be satisfied anyways.。
And then the third thing that we're going to look at is where when we achieve power。
or when we gain a lot of money, at the end of the day, we just die and no one remembers。
that.。
That's the point.。
And that's also unfair.。
So we're going to look at all those who are like, "Wow, this is a very depressing chapter.。
So how should we live our life?"。
Well, the preacher actually gives us some hints.。
So we're going to look at that together.。
So let's have a look at verse one to three of this chapter.。
So it says, "Again," the preacher says, "I saw all the oppressions that are done under。
the sun.。
And behold the tears of the oppressed, and they had no one to comfort them.。
On the side of the oppressors, there was power, and then there was no one to comfort them."。
You might think to yourself, why is it that oppressors need to be comforted?。
This is not talking, the them here is not talking about the oppressors.。
But in an NLT version, maybe it'll help us.。
It's saying that the oppressors have great power and their victims are helpless.。
So the them was also referring to those who are being oppressed.。
So how badly was the oppression?。
Well in verse two and three, it tells us that the preacher says, "And I thought that the。
dead, those who are dead, are more fortunate than those who are living.。
But better than both is he who had not yet been born and has not yet seen the evil deeds。
that are done under the sun."。
I guess for all of us here, I think baby's the only one that qualifies for this one.。
Not yet been born.。
So we see when oppression sometimes gets so bad that we have this saying that, "Oh, I。
wish I was dead," or, "I wish I was never born."。
And that's how bad it gets.。
And we see that a lot in the Bible, right?。
When the king oppressed the peasants, or when the master oppressed the servant, or the more。
affluent people with power oppressed those who don't have it.。
And Jesus himself was oppressed by the Jewish leaders and the Roman authorities, right?。
So oppression is nothing new to us.。
Now I hope none of you, none of us, are experiencing oppression to that degree.。
Please come talk to us if you are.。
Let us try to do something about it.。
But I mean, we do to some degree or not, are oppressed.。
Either by our boss or our coworkers.。
They might mistreat us.。
Or you might be in a relationship where it's unloving, or you feel that you're disrespected.。
And so somehow you still feel that you're being treated unfairly.。
Now the word here, what's worse though?。
I mean, it's bad enough to have oppression, but what's worse is that there's no one to。
comfort, okay?。
And the tears will come down.。
Can you imagine that in your life when you're going through oppression, that you don't have。
anybody?。
No one understands.。
When you tell them, they might even tell you you're wrong.。
And you're like, "Oh my goodness, this is even worse."。
But we do have this one person who is our ultimate comforter, and that is God.。
So this brings us to our first point.。
When we are oppressed by other, maybe even to the point of death, we need to find comfort。
in God.。
Now when someone treats us really badly, we get angry.。
And most of the time I think of a picture in my mind that helps me, let's put that up.。
That's right.。
That's what I think about.。
I'm like, "I am strangling you in my mind."。
And somehow I find a little bit of a comfort, right?。
Maybe not you guys, but for me.。
But it's not long lasting.。
And you know what?。
Nothing changes, right?。
I mean, after a few moments of this, I go back to being upset or angry.。
So unless we go to God who's going to give us the peace, when we're actually going through。
these oppressions, we're not going to really have comfort.。
And comfort not only means this feeling nice, like somebody understands, but meaning somebody。
actually comes to your rescue and to your help.。
And God is the only one who can do that.。
Now I would like to share with you an example of where I have great oppression, but I realize。
I either don't have one, which thank God, I'm not asking for one.。
Or if I say it, I might expose that person, but that person's not here.。
And it's not anybody you know, but it is going online, right?。
So I'm going to share another example.。
So just a few days ago, I was being oppressed at the swimming pool.。
And now you might be asking, is it even possible to be oppressed at the swimming pool?。
Yes.。
Why?。
Well, okay, so I was at my clubhouse, so I was swimming.。
So we're in one of those where there are no lanes, okay?。
No designated lanes.。
You know what people do?。
It's freestyle.。
So it's all over the place.。
It was kind of packed, not too packed, you know?。
And there was this, a few guys, but I'm just going to name one, okay?。
That swims as if it's a private pool, you know?。
He extends his arm as far as he could, and you know, he swims straight.。
And even if there's someone coming straight at him, he's like, "I can't see you.。
I'm just going to keep going."。
So what I've been doing at that time during the swimming pool is I've been dodging him。
every time.。
So I'll be like this, and I try to narrow my, I don't, if you guys have ever been, right?。
You try to narrow your movement so you don't hit the other guy.。
And so I was like, okay, by the fourth or the fifth lap, all right.。
This is getting too much, okay?。
So I'm like this human Tetris game.。
I was just trying to make my way through.。
So I was quite upset, honestly, I have to say.。
So I thought to myself, you know what I'm going to do next round when we come head to。
head?。
You know what I'm going to do?。
I'm just going to stand there, okay?。
Just going to stand and let him crash and realize, oh my goodness, there are other people。
in the pool too.。
But because of baby, I thought that might not be a very good thing to do.。
I don't want him to injure me.。
So I thought, okay, you know what?。
Let's find some comfort from the lifeguard.。
Why don't I go to him, tell him, hey, this guy is just swimming like this.。
But I thought, what's he going to do?。
He's not going to go and talk to the guy.。
So I'm like, forget it.。
So there I was still trying to swim.。
And then I had this thought, let's just pray.。
I know, maybe that's not the sort of thing you pray about.。
I pray about everything.。
So I'm like, God, you know, this guy, like, what's wrong with it?。
And actually, as I was praying, though, a peace started really coming into my heart.。
I was just like, hey, you know, I almost sensed that God was saying, hey, don't let this guy。
ruin your afternoon.。
Like enjoy your swim.。
I was like, okay, fine.。
So I was swimming, dodging, I'm like, okay, and dodging.。
But at the same time, though, the peace started to come and I began to just start thinking。
about other things.。
I was just enjoying the swim.。
So towards the end, you know, I only swim about half an hour.。
And then I was swimming to the edge of the pool where I, you know, I'm just about to。
get there.。
And I realized I kicked someone.。
And so I turned around, ah, it's that guy.。
He can't even see me when he's like right behind me, right?。
And then I was like, yes.。
Sorry, this is how spiritual I am, right?。
Not even I said yes, I was thinking, did I kick hard enough?。
All right, that's a side note.。
But I really felt, you know, God was vindicating for me.。
I know it's not the kind of vindication you guys are looking for.。
But at least, you know, it gave me a bit of comfort.。
And like, at least he knows that there are other people in the pool.。
All right, that might be a little bit of a funny/happy experience I have with God.。
But I want to, what I want to say is, you know, life, we're going to go through some。
oppressions, whether it's big and really depressing ones where we're going to cry over them.。
Or it might just simple things, but you know, it still upsets us every now and then, right?。
But when we bring it to God, he actually helps us.。
And many, many times, it has been where I brought it to him, and he actually eventually。
helps me vindicate in that area or in that situation.。
And so this, I believe as depressing as it is that there is oppression, it's only depressing。
if we don't have a God who would comfort us, who would listen to us, and who would bring。
us out of that situation at some point in his time.。
So I want to encourage all of us on that.。
Now as we read on in verse four to six, this is what the preacher says, "Then I saw that。
all toil and all skill in work come from a man's envy of his neighbor.。
This also is vanity and a striving after win.。
The fool folds his hands and eats his own flesh.。
There is handful of quietness than two hands full of toil and a striving after wind."。
Now in this section, we see that, as I mentioned earlier, working hard or not working hard。
seems to lead to the same thing, right?。
Because why do you want to work hard anyway?。
I mean, you can tell me you love your job.。
I love my job.。
All right.。
I mean, and for another reason, it might be because we want things, right?。
What do you want in Hong Kong?。
A bigger house, a bigger apartment, right?。
You want to be able to pay off that mortgage if you have one or rent, or if you have a。
car, you want a faster one.。
And if you're a guy, you're like, "I want a pretty wife."。
And so there's like something that you're always wanting more, and we're driven by this。
envy.。
Why?。
Because we see, "Whoa, that guy has a bigger house."。
And we see other people having more things.。
And what does that mean?。
We're not satisfied inside, because that's what we're motivated by, right?。
And then the other guy who folds his hand, it really means that he's not going to do。
anything, and he eats his own flesh, meaning that he doesn't even have enough to eat.。
I mean, who's going to be happy when you don't even have enough to eat?。
Okay.。
That is only if you are...。
What's the word I'm looking for?。
Fasting.。
That's right.。
But no, for most of us, if we don't have enough food, we're going to be upset.。
So it's here's telling us that rather you do things or not do things, you're just not。
satisfied.。
But thank goodness the preacher gives us a glimpse of what we can do.。
And in verse six, he says, "Better is a handful of quietness than two hands full of toil and。
still striving."。
So it's basically telling us that if we're content, if we have enough, one hand is already。
good enough.。
We don't need two and still grabbing more.。
And so we need contentment.。
And that's where we're going to find a solution for this kind of unfairness.。
And so this brings us to our second point.。
Even though life is unfair, you don't know if you should work or not, because either。
way you're not getting satisfied.。
But if we find contentment in God, then we are going to find a solution to this working。
problem.。
So how do we find contentment in God?。
The reason I said you can't just find contentment, because no matter how hard you try, you will。
still see someone else having something else.。
I mean, you guys won't, but I would.。
The grass is what?。
It's greener on the other side.。
You don't know why, but it's always like that, right?。
Maybe you have a spouse, you're like, "Oh, but that one's better."。
Or maybe you go to a church, you're like, "Oh, but that church is better."。
You go to work and you're like, "Oh, but that job is better than mine."。
And it's almost like, how do we have contentment unless we're in God?。
And what does it mean to have contentment in God?。
Well, to realize that God has measured your portion for you.。
That whatever it is that you have, maybe you think, "Oh, why didn't I born in a rich family?"。
Or you know, everybody wants to be the son of Li Ka-shing, maybe?。
No, no, no, maybe not.。
Okay, try to erase that from the tape.。
I mean, what is it, right?。
It's almost like we want something more all the time.。
But if we remember, this is the lot, this is the cup that God has provided for us, and。
He knows us best, and He knows what's best for us.。
Maybe this job, this relationship, maybe this study that you're doing is gonna allow you。
to learn something that if you were not, you would be very different.。
And so we need to trust God and say that, "You know, this isn't perfect, but you gave。
it to me, and I'm just gonna enjoy it."。
Now, so speaking of contentment, this continues on.。
And he says that, the preacher says, in verse 7 to 12, "Again, I saw vanity under the sun,。
one person who has no other, either son or brother, yet there is no end to all his toils.。
And his eyes are never satisfied with riches, so that he never asks, 'For whom am I toiling。
and depriving myself of pleasure?'。
This also is vanity and an unhappy business.。
Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil.。
For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow.。
But woe to him who is alone, when he falls and has no another to lift him up.。
Again, if two lie together, they keep warm, but how can one keep warm alone?。
And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him.。
A threefold cord is not quickly broken."。
I mean, it's quite a big chunk of scripture.。
But it's really telling us, if we go back and look at verse 8, it's telling us that。
people aren't satisfied, right?。
To a point where he's so busy, this person, that he doesn't even have time to ask, "Why。
am I toiling?。
Why am I depriving of pleasure?。
I'm so busy."。
And then, as we see, the reason for this toiling is because he always wants more, right?。
But look at it.。
If we are satisfied, we're content in God, we don't need to grab more.。
But with what we have, who do we share with?。
The people that God has placed around us.。
I mean, sometimes I've heard stories, I'm sure all of our men here are not like that,。
that they're so busy working, what happens?。
They miss their son or daughter's performances, right?。
Because they do have to work.。
Or when the wife wants, "Hey, let's have a date night out."。
I'm like, "I'm too tired."。
Not none of you guys, I'm just speaking to those who are not here today.。
And right, because we have toil.。
And now that's not to say not to work, right?。
Remember the preacher did say, "Have one handful."。
So we do work, but we also need to remember that what's important, two is better than。
one.。
Now that's not necessarily saying that married is better than not being married.。
Two is better than one, meaning that we have that company.。
And this other line saying that they were able to keep warm.。
So this is not a distant friend that you call up on WhatsApp, okay?。
This is someone who, if you needed a hug, will be there for you.。
And do we really cultivate and build that relationship?。
Or has work, money, grasping for more taken over us?。
What is more important to you, your job or your family?。
I think I spoke of one of these before where my mom calls.。
Even if I'm in the middle of the meeting, I'll be like, "Mom, I'm in the middle of a。
meeting.。
I'll call you back."。
Not because she can't wait or I cannot miss the call, but just because she is important,。
family.。
And so it tells us the preacher, in order to have contentment in God, not only are we。
satisfied with the things that he has given us, but also with the people that he has given。
us.。
So we cultivate that.。
And it says here, threefold cord is strong, meaning that we also need a community.。
As you saw today and many weeks here, that we have people here who might get sick and。
we pray for them together.。
We often WhatsApp them.。
I think Winnie and Ricky shared a few weeks ago also that there were so many people who。
flooded them with messages or prayers.。
And today, we've also heard about the needs of Peter and his family.。
And just this week, as Alex and Joe's baby was...。
Heart was going through some issues, we were all earnestly praying.。
And not only...。
Sometimes we think, "Well, why can't I just pray alone?。
I can just pray alone.。
I don't need to tell anyone."。
But the thing is, this is a support system that God has given to us, placed around us.。
And it's not the same.。
Honestly, when people message me, "How are you guys doing?。
How's your mom?。
How's your sister?"。
And all those...。
Honestly, it helps me because life is unfair.。
You don't know why some things hit you, right?。
But when those people around you, the important ones, the ones that walk with you, come, you。
know that it makes a difference.。
And also, the preacher is asking us, "The rewards that you get, don't hoard it.。
Share it with those people."。
And so I wanna put up a photo.。
This is my mom's birthday, and we were out at a fancy restaurant eating.。
And I wanna thank my husband there for just suggesting a really fancy restaurant, also。
bringing us there and treating us there.。
And I just felt like we were able to enjoy this one handful.。
I mean, honestly, is our job the most, I don't know, prestigious, well-paid?。
Probably not, actually, no.。
I mean, is our family perfect?。
We never fight?。
Nope, definitely not.。
But here we are, enjoying, content with what God is giving us.。
Now, of course, I'm not every moment as content as I should be, but I'm getting there, and。
we should all get there too.。
And so this helps us when we're faced with this unfairness of just working more or not。
working at all.。
Where is our meaning?。
What's the point?。
It's where we find contentment in God.。
Now, as we read on...。
So before we read on, I mean, there might be things that you're going through as well.。
There are some hard things that you're going through.。
But what if we just say, "Whatever it is that we're going through, God has measured it for。
us.。
He knows what He's doing.。
He loves us.。
Be content.。
Let's embrace that He has put into our hands."。
How different will our lives be?。
So as we read on, verse 13 to 16, this says, "Better was a poor and wise youth than an。
old and foolish king who no longer knew how to take advice, for he went from prison to。
the throne, though in his own kingdom he had been born poor.。
I saw all the living who move about under the sun.。
Along with that youth, who was to stand in the king's place?。
There was no end to all the people, all of whom he led, yet those who come later will。
not rejoice in him.。
Surely this also is vanity and striving after the win."。
Now in verse 13, it tells us that the poor and wise youth, this person, would eventually。
come to throne.。
So there was an older king, but he's now foolish because he won't be taking any advice.。
And so what we see here in these few verses is it's trying to tell us that no matter what。
high achievements you have, even if you were a king, of course we don't have kings in Hong。
Kong, but even if you've reached a milestone of your life, someone else will take over。
and that you will be forgotten.。
So it's all vanity, right?。
I mean, it's unfair.。
I mean, we've worked so hard for what?。
Nothing.。
But how do we face that?。
Now again, the preacher gives us a clue.。
And he says, "Better was poor and wise."。
I'm pretty sure he's not asking us to be poor, but I think he's asking us to be wise.。
Now think about it.。
This young guy, this young man who would be king, where did he come from?。
He actually came from prison, according to the Bible verse.。
And was he rich?。
No, he was poor.。
And yet because of the wisdom that he has, he made it to the throne.。
He probably listened to people's advice.。
I take it that the verse is trying to compare the two, right?。
And so what does that tell us?。
What is the preacher trying to tell us?。
Is that as futile as it is that everything is just going to vanish or your accomplishments。
will not be remembered?。
Yet it is still better to be wise.。
Now why is that?。
Well think about it.。
If we were all that youth, do you want to be stuck in prison?。
Do you want to be stuck in poverty?。
Probably not.。
Even though things are going to pass, I probably want a slightly smoother path, slightly more。
comfortable one.。
And you know, God's not asking us to, you have to choose the path that leads you to。
despair, right?。
No.。
And so this brings us to our third point that yeah, life is unfair.。
Things will pass no matter how high you climb, but seek God for wisdom.。
Now why do I say seek God for wisdom?。
Because where do wisdom come from?。
Only God.。
Only God.。
Because wisdom is what?。
What is wisdom?。
Can anyone define for me?。
Don't worry, I've been doing this the whole week so I can say it.。
Is really being able to discern what is good and what is bad.。
To be able to make good judgment.。
That's wisdom.。
But does that come from us?。
No.。
And it can never really come from us.。
And one of the reasons that it cannot come from us is because we don't have that humbleness.。
I mean, think about it.。
You cannot know everything.。
You cannot always make the best choices.。
But God has probably placed some people around you with some wisdom.。
But if you think, "Oh, I know everything.。
I don't need this."。
Then you're always going to be limited to yourself.。
And even if God wanted to speak to you, you'd be like, "Oh, no, no thank you.。
I'm good."。
And that's what happened to the foolish king, right?。
So unless we have wisdom from God to discern what is good, what is bad, we're going to。
make our own judgment and most likely we're going to stay in prison, stay in poverty.。
This is the analogy.。
So what we want to do, despite how this life might pass and your accomplishments will be。
over, it is yet still better to have wisdom from God.。
Now over the years, I've realized that God allows us to learn from our mistakes too.。
So that's part of the journey, right?。
And I remember maybe a year ago, I was also sharing that there was a time in my life when。
I was dating a guy and that he was actually a pastor to be, but he has committed something。
so serious that I really had to second guess.。
Of course, my mom and people who were wise told me, "Don't continue with this guy."。
But at first I thought, "But the Bible says love, love is like never giving up."。
I mean, how do I discern?。
How do I choose?。
But then at the end of the day, I remember my mom was literally yelling at me on the。
bus, well, over the phone, okay?。
We don't do this face-to-face bus fight.。
So over the phone, she's like, "When are you going to stop being so stubborn and listen。
to people's advice?"。
And of course, what do you do as a daughter when your mom yells at you like that?。
You cut the line.。
You cut the line.。
Because why?。
You didn't want to hear that.。
You're like, "You think I'm stupid."。
And but that line keeps on ringing in your head, right?。
You just keep thinking about it.。
Oh yeah, she is right.。
She had been right many times.。
And really, I believe unless it was God, I mean, unless it was God, I wouldn't have been。
able to be so clear about this discernment.。
And I end up breaking up with that person.。
And honestly, three months later, I thought it was the best decision I've ever made in。
my life.。
And honestly, what I wanted to say is wisdom doesn't come from ourselves.。
And wisdom ties a lot with humbleness.。
Because we can't hear people.。
We can't, even if we read a nice article that gives us a lot of wisdom, but if we're blocked,。
if we're blind, we cannot go through.。
We cannot understand, we cannot comprehend it.。
We cannot take it in.。
So we must pray that even in the midst of while your life, our lives, our accomplishments。
might be override eventually, that God still didn't want us to walk in a very rough life.。
He wants to help us.。
So we have to ask him for wisdom.。
And so today I've put it up on here for you that the, you know, last week we had chapter。
three and remember what that specialty about chapter three was?。
There's a time for everything.。
And we had parallels.。
And this time, actually in chapter four, we also have a specialty is actually called better.。
And what we see is under oppression, the author tells us that it is better kind of to not。
have been born, to not have seen this, or maybe even more fortunate if you were dead.。
Now he's definitely not asking us to commit suicide.。
Okay, please do not take this out of context.。
But what he's saying is if we don't have a comforter, yes, we'll feel like this, but。
better yet is that we have a comforter.。
And also when we're under a lot of meaningless toils, when we're just wanting to grab more,。
what does he say?。
Verse six, nine, better is a handful of quietness.。
And also two are better than one.。
He's saying, be content with what you have, share it with those people he has placed around。
us.。
That's how we overcome this meaningless toil.。
And lastly, he says these endless achievements, what's the point?。
He says better was poor and wise.。
I'm pretty sure the poor part's not what he's trying to highlight, but wise.。
Let us ask God to give us wisdom to have that humbleness.。
So today I want to leave you with just a few questions at the end, which is, I mean, how。
have you been living your life?。
I mean, when you were oppressed, maybe the little things like me at the swimming pool。
or bigger things in life, how have you faced them?。
Do you bring them to God or do you talk to people and try to solve it yourself?。
What is it that you do?。
And when you have all these resources, do you still just want more or do you begin to。
see the importance of family, your friends, your church, to cultivate those, to spend。
more time on those instead of getting one or two more zeros at the end of your bank。
account?。
Hopefully in front of the decimal and not after.。
And lastly, really knowing that everything will pass, yet God still wants us to have。
wisdom to live through this life to help us.。
Do we go and ask him, "Give me wisdom."。
So let's look to God for our answers.。
And I do believe that Ecclesiastes chapter four do show a lot of unfairness in this world.。
But at the same time, I don't believe that was a footstop of period.。
It was a chance for us to turn to God.。
And so let's pray together and respond in a way that ask us to think about how we respond。
in life.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we know that there are oppression, there are meaningless toils and。
achievements will pass.。
And yet Father, you're with us through that.。
In every one of those unfair situation that you have not left us alone, that you are our。
ultimate comforter.。
You are the one that gives us contentment in this world so we don't have to feel dissatisfied.。
And Father, you are the one that gives us true wisdom so that in our lives, you don't。
mean it for us to suffer.。
You mean for us to walk with you.。
And so Father, we just pray together that as we face any of these situations in our。
lives that we'll remember to turn to you for our strength, for our shield.。
We'll remember to turn to you as our source of help.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
(ice clattering)。
