Good evening.。
Good evening.。
So, yeah, we've been looking at the heart of Jesus recently,。
a series looking at the heart of Jesus,。
taking a tour through the Gospels to see what Jesus did。
and how he lived while here on earth.。
And we see his heart from the historical accounts。
of how he healed people and how he preached。
about the kingdom of heaven.。
Now, the topic of today is how Jesus comforts.。
Jesus has a heart that comforts.。
In the Gospel according to Mark, chapter 9,。
Mark records an instance where Jesus comforts。
a dad who was in distress.。
Let's read from Mark, chapter 9, verse 14 again.。
"And when they," that's Jesus along with three of his disciples,。
Peter, James, and John, "when they came to the disciples,。
they saw a great crowd around them and scribes arguing with them.。
And immediately all the crowd, when they saw him,。
were greatly amazed and ran up to him and greeted him."。
So the scene is that Jesus comes down from a mountain。
and he's swarmed by a crowd.。
And overall, it's a lot of chaos.。
Jesus' disciples and scribes in the crowd, everyone's arguing.。
They see Jesus, everyone runs up to him.。
And so in verse 16, Jesus asks, "Hey, what's going on?。
What are you arguing with them about?"。
And then it's revealed,。
"Someone from the crowd answered him, 'Teacher, I brought my son to you,。
for he has a spirit that makes him mute.。
And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down,。
and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid.。
So I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able."。
Okay, so now we see what's going on.。
There's a boy who's possessed by a spirit or alternatively a demon.。
And so naturally, his dad's in distress.。
He cares for his son, and presumably after hearing about stories。
of Jesus healing others, he brings his son to Jesus。
and to his followers, hoping that Jesus may be able to heal him。
and end his misery.。
And so the father comes to Jesus, falls on his knees,。
and begs Jesus to heal his son.。
Now again, we're looking at the heart of Jesus today,。
a heart that comforts.。
And here we see a desperate father on his knees, begging Jesus to heal.。
Surely now, surely now, Jesus is going to comfort this father.。
Now let's see his comforting heart in verse 19.。
"And Jesus answered them, 'O faithless generation,。
how long am I to be with you?。
How long am I to bear with you?'"。
What's going on?。
How is that comforting?。
"O faithless generation."。
How's that comforting?。
Imagine you're at the ICU at Hong Kong's Children's Hospital.。
A doctor walks into the waiting area.。
A dad runs up to him, grabs his hand, falls on his knees,。
pleads with him, "Help me, doctor.。
My son, he fell from the chair.。
I gave him CPR, but he's not breathing.。
Help me."。
And then the doctor, with all the care and concern that he can muster up,。
replies, "How long will I have to deal with you?"。
That's the sort of picture that we're seeing in Mark 9 at this point.。
Okay, so there you have it, folks.。
Let's comfort as Jesus comforts.。
Let's all give this a try this coming week.。
Let's comfort others in this way.。
That's the moral of the story, right?。
So suppose your friend is going through a tough breakup.。
He knocks on your door.。
He's got half a tub of ice cream in one hand.。
He's got a spoon in the other and a lot of tissues.。
And he's sobbing, and between spoonfuls--。
If that's happening to you this week, this is what you can do.。
Put your hand on his shoulder and say these magic words.。
"Oh, faithless generation."。
(Laughter)。
Okay?。
Or here's a fun one.。
Next time you're at a funeral-- maybe a closed casket one, by the way--。
picture this.。
Everyone's crying.。
You walk up to the front, and you place your flower on the casket.。
Off to your left, there's a grieving widow.。
You take her hand, look her in the eye, and say,。
"Miss Taylor, I'm so, so sorry。
that I have to deal with this faithless generation."。
(Laughter)。
Is that what we're meant to do?。
Copy and paste what Jesus did in this situation?。
I don't quite think so.。
And don't get me wrong.。
Jesus is being caring and comforting here.。
He does have a heart that comforts.。
He's not out to be a jerk.。
And in order to see that today,。
let's first look at the problems that Jesus addresses in this story.。
What are the problems here that require comfort in the first place?。
I see two problems.。
First, the obvious problem is that this boy is--。
he's literally demon-possessed.。
He's possessed by a demon, and that's a pretty big problem.。
There's a spirit that prevents the boy from speaking.。
First, he's mute.。
But not only that, the spirit seizes him.。
The spirit takes the boy and slams him into the ground.。
Matthew's account of the same incident in chapter 17 says。
the demon even throws the boy sometimes into fire and water.。
It's trying to harm this kid.。
It makes him foam at the mouth like a rabid animal.。
It makes him grind his teeth.。
Or it makes him rigid like a board, unable to move.。
He's either tossed around violently or he's paralyzed, unable to move.。
And no wonder the dad is in distress.。
To all the parents in the room, I don't know what that would feel like.。
I don't have kids, but imagine if that was your child.。
His son is possessed by a demon.。
He's suffering.。
He's afflicted.。
And that's problem number one.。
There's also a second problem in this narrative.。
The problem is this.。
The people around Jesus lack faith.。
They all lack faith--the father, the disciples, the scribes,。
the rest of the crowd.。
They don't fully know Jesus.。
They don't completely trust in him.。
And that's the second problem.。
And if we look at why there's chaos in the crowd so far,。
it's firstly because the boy is demon-possessed.。
But more than that, the father says in verse 18,。
"I asked your disciples to cast out the demon, and they were not able."。
The chaos is also because the disciples were unable to help this boy.。
And what's the reason given for why they couldn't help?。
Jesus immediately rebukes everyone in verse 19, saying,。
"Calling them a faithless generation, and that's not without reason."。
The disciples were unable to help because they lacked faith.。
And it's not only the disciples who are faithless.。
The boy's father also didn't believe.。
As he goes to Jesus, we see a lot of desperation in him,。
but not much faith so far.。
There's not much faith that he truly believes that Jesus can help him.。
And so far, we've only heard from him that the disciples were unable to do anything.。
Let's read on from verse 20.。
[reading]。
See, Jesus didn't like hearing what the dad said.。
"If you can." Jesus picks up on this immediately.。
"If you can help me."。
That betrays the dad's inner doubts about him.。
The dad's verbally hedging his bets that Jesus can help him.。
He doesn't fully believe that this is possible.。
Compare this dad to the others that we've heard about in the past weeks.。
Paul preached on Mark 5 a few weeks ago.。
There was a woman who fought through the crowd to touch Jesus。
because she believed that if I touch even his garment, I will be made well.。
We also heard of the centurion who asked Jesus to heal his servant.。
He said, "I'm unworthy for you to come into my house,。
but you have authority just like how I, the centurion, has authority over my soldiers."。
The centurion says, "Go," and the soldiers go.。
Similarly, Jesus can say, "Be healed," and he will be healed.。
At that Jesus marvel, truly I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith.。
Remember the leper in Mark 1.。
He came to the Jesus with faith, saying that if you will, you can make me clean.。
You can make me clean.。
He trusted. He knew that Jesus could heal him.。
The leper's question is, "Are you willing, Jesus?"。
Instead, the father says, "Can you do it? Can you even do this? Are you able?"。
The dad lacks faith, and Jesus calls him out for it.。
But then we get to verse 24, and this is a crucial point in the story.。
This is a key point.。
It goes like this.。
"Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, 'I believe. Help my unbelief.'"。
These are the key words today.。
"I believe. Help my unbelief."。
If you remember just three words today, remember this.。
"Help my unbelief."。
I can sympathize a bit with the dad.。
It's understandable why he has doubts.。
Number one, he's dealing with this demon in his son for so long.。
In verse 24, Jesus asks the father, "How long has this been happening to him?"。
And the father says, "From childhood."。
That has to be stressful.。
For years and years, the dad watched in pain as the demon broke down his son and destroyed the one he loves.。
For years, he was unable to do anything.。
Then he hears of this miracle worker, Jesus.。
This guy can make the blind see. He can make the lame walk. He can cast out demons.。
And his disciples were doing the same.。
So he brings his son over, hoping that they can heal him.。
But what happens?。
They can't do it. The disciples are useless.。
And in that case, it may be understandable to think,。
if the disciples can't do it, maybe it's all just a sham.。
Maybe Jesus can't do it either.。
I don't know.。
And on top of that, when they bring the son to Jesus, it gets even worse.。
In verse 20, it says, "When the spirit saw Jesus, immediately it convulsed the boy,。
and he fell to the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth."。
So far, it looks like turning to Jesus didn't help anything.。
And if anything, it made the situation even worse.。
And I wonder if we felt that way about anything like that before in our lives.。
It's something that we've wanted or prayed about for a while,。
but yet nothing happened.。
It's one thing to know God and trust him in our heads,。
but it's also a constant fight to live it out by faith day by day.。
Those who know me know that I love God's sovereignty.。
That is a truth that I find my joy and rest in, in God's promises.。
I know that God works all things for the good of those who love him,。
that he will supply every need of yours,。
according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.。
But I have to admit that sometimes my faith wavers.。
For example, a while back, I had problems with a romantic relationship.。
I wanted it to work out one way and had some hopes and expectations for it,。
but when things didn't go the way I want, I got anxious and worried.。
I had my eyes set on an uncertain situation。
rather than on the unshakable promises of God.。
I needed to pray, "Lord, I believe, I do believe.。
Help my unbelief.。
I know, God, that you will never leave me or forsake me.。
I know that the Lord is my helper. I will not fear.。
What can man do to me?"。
But on the other hand, I need to say, "Father, I'm weak, I'm short-sighted,。
and I need you. Help my unbelief."。
Like this dad, are there troubles in your life。
that cause you to doubt God's goodness?。
Maybe a loved one that's sick, could be dating, relationships.。
Maybe you've been praying for years and years and nothing's happened.。
For parents, maybe like this dad, you pray for your son or daughter.。
Perhaps they took a wrong turn at some point.。
They're chasing after the world and turned away from God.。
You've been praying for years and nothing happened.。
I invite all of us to turn to Jesus and pray as the dad prayed.。
"I believe. Help my unbelief."。
I've prayed to him. I've been discouraged. It's been years, Lord,。
and I've seen nothing changed.。
Or maybe the situation just caught me by surprise. I don't know what to do.。
I want to pray, but I don't even know how to pray.。
But even so, we can pray. "Help my unbelief."。
Jesus hears these prayers and he comforts those who are weak and weary.。
He helps us even when our faith is weak.。
And I think that also is what true faith actually is.。
When we recognize that we are weak and we can't save ourselves,。
that we need Jesus and then cry out to him for help.。
Maybe also there's some of us here that don't know Jesus yet or believe in him.。
Or you've heard about him recently and want to believe.。
You could be or you could have been attending church for a while,。
but still you know that something's missing about your faith.。
You don't really worship God or you see how others worship。
and you know somehow you don't love him the same way.。
Maybe at the back of your mind there's nagging doubts.。
You're not sure whether God really exists or whether he truly loves you and cares for you.。
Perhaps you're at a crossroads and you either need to be cut to the heart with the gospel。
or you're ready to give it up entirely.。
If that's the case with you, I also invite you to pray. "Help my unbelief."。
Even if you can't say, "I believe," you can still say, "I don't believe, but I want to. Help my unbelief."。
Take that step however small to seek Jesus.。
And that step of saying, "I can't do it. Help me, God," when said earnestly,。
is part of what true faith actually is.。
Faith sees that we need a savior. We can't save ourselves, so we cry out to him.。
1 Peter 5 says, "God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.。
Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God,。
so that at the proper time he may exalt you,。
casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you."。
You see, Jesus comes, he invites us to come to him as we are.。
Even if we don't believe in him, even when our faith is weak, we can call out to him.。
"Help my unbelief." Jesus helps us when we're weak.。
Secondly, Jesus answers and works to build our faith.。
He helps us when we're weak, but he also works to build our faith up.。
Let's read on from verse 25.。
See, long story short, Jesus managed to cast the demon out and heal the boy. Nice.。
But before that, the dad went through a long journey.。
The dad was disappointed by the disciple's uselessness.。
He was on his knees and also desperately pleading with Jesus,。
only to be greeted with a rebuke.。
Then as Jesus went to his son and claimed to cast out the demon,。
now the spirit convulsed and afflicted the boy even more,。
to the point that the boy appeared to be dead even.。
The boy appeared to be dead.。
Now Jesus could have healed the boy immediately.。
He was certainly able to.。
Or if God didn't permit it in the first place, the demon would have no power over the son.。
But I think that Jesus allowed all of this to happen for a reason.。
In order to bring the dad to the point where he had no other choice but to cry out to Jesus,。
saying, "Help my unbelief."。
He used suffering to refine this dad's faith.。
And in the same way, God also uses trials and suffering in our life to draw us to him.。
1 Peter 1:6 says,。
God uses suffering to refine our faith so that we could have this eternal joy,。
this thing that is precious.。
We observed earlier that there are two problems in this passage.。
The first is that there is a demon-possessed boy,。
and the second is that there is unbelief.。
If we also zoom out to look more broadly at the Gospels,。
we see that there are two big things that Jesus has been doing so far.。
Number one is that he has been performing miracles,。
mainly healing people and casting out demons, as with the boy here.。
Number two, he has been preaching and proclaiming the kingdom of God.。
Mark 1 says,。
But if we squint at it, both actions, the healing and the preaching,。
are actually part of the same mission.。
They both serve to testify of who Jesus is.。
First, he is revealed as someone who is sent by God to declare his kingdom coming.。
Jesus is a prophet declaring the kingdom of God.。
And then later, as his ministry progresses,。
it is revealed that Jesus, this prophet, is also the Christ, the Messiah,。
who will save the world.。
He is the one who is anointed and chosen by God to save his people.。
So Jesus both declares the Gospel with words in his preaching,。
and then performs signs and wonders to confirm that his message is credible.。
The heart of Jesus, both in his healing and preaching,。
is that Jesus wants people to believe in him。
and have faith that he will redeem them from their sins.。
And here we see that Jesus healed because he is compassionate.。
That is true.。
The Father appeals to that, asking Jesus in verse 22,。
"Have compassion on us."。
And a couple weeks ago, we also heard about how Jesus healed the leper in Mark 1。
because he was moved with pity and compassion for him, the leper.。
But his compassion isn't only for physical illnesses.。
It surely is.。
But it's also towards our unbelief.。
Because Mark 6, 34 says,。
"When Jesus went ashore, he saw a great crowd,。
"and he had compassion on them,。
"because they were like sheep without a shepherd."。
These people were like sheep without a shepherd。
because of their lack of faith, because of unbelief.。
They didn't know God and lost their way as a result.。
And Jesus had compassion on them for that reason,。
because of their lack of faith.。
And then out of his compassion, what does he do?。
He began to teach them many things.。
He taught them out of compassion for their unbelief.。
And the point is this,。
that Jesus heals not out of only compassion towards physical illnesses,。
but also from compassion towards our spiritual illnesses,。
towards our lack of faith.。
His ministry of healing works alongside his ministry of proclamation.。
His miracles testify that Jesus, he is the real deal,。
that what he says is true.。
In Mark 1, Jesus was teaching in the synagogue,。
and all of a sudden, another demon-possessed man interrupts。
and causes a commotion.。
And then Jesus commands the spirit, saying,。
"Be silent and come out of him."。
And the spirit obeys.。
Later in verse 27, it says,。
"That they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying,。
'What is this, a new teaching with authority?。
He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.'"。
The one who has authority over the demon to say,。
"Be silent and come out of him,"。
that Jesus has the same authority to say to us,。
"Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."。
The miracles testify that Jesus is sent from God.。
And now it's also interesting that when the dad asks, "Help my unbelief,"。
how does Jesus respond?。
He responds by healing the boy.。
And now perhaps Jesus answered that cry by giving the dad faith。
that made the healing possible,。
but I consider the act of healing itself。
to be an answer to the dad's prayer of helping his unbelief.。
Jesus addresses the dad's unbelief by doing what he said he could do.。
He showed that he was able to heal precisely by healing the boy,。
by the act of healing him.。
He showed himself worthy of our faith.。
That's how he helped the dad's unbelief.。
And I think the same is true also when we talk about healing。
and other miraculous works of the spirit today,。
or how God answers our prayers.。
He answers because God loves us and is compassionate towards us,。
but he's not just compassionate towards our physical ailments.。
He wants to strengthen our faith in him.。
And there's some of us here who can testify to how they came to know God。
more closely when he healed them or a loved one.。
I think of Florence's family. That's one example.。
I'm sure there's other testimonies.。
But the miracles and gifts of the spirit are not ends in themselves.。
They're gifts given to build up the church。
and to demonstrate that Jesus is who he really claimed to be.。
As Hebrews 2 says,。
So that's why there's signs and wonders performed by Jesus and maybe now today.。
And what's this great salvation declared in Hebrews 2?。
What's the message that God confirms with signs and wonders?。
If we read on in Mark 2, verse 31, Jesus tells his disciples,。
You see, Jesus' mission wasn't just to preach and heal.。
His ultimate mission was to die on the cross for our sins.。
Jesus came to put death to death and to make an end of our sins.。
Jesus, the innocent son of man and son of God,。
was murdered on the cross for our sake.。
He willingly gave his life up for us and bore the wrath of God on our behalf。
so that all who believe in him would be forgiven of their sins.。
And Jesus didn't just die, but he performed the ultimate miracle on the third day.。
He rose from the dead, proving that he is the son of God。
and that he is worthy of our faith,。
that he is worthy for us to deny ourselves, take up our cross and follow him.。
Just as Jesus raised the boy in verse 27 and proved that he is able to heal,。
Jesus rose from the dead and demonstrated that he is worthy of our full trust and adoration.。
And so, because Jesus died and rose, we can cry to him,。
"I believe, help my unbelief."。
Jesus died and rose from the dead to purchase for us this prayer, "Help my unbelief."。
These healings, these miracles are witnesses and signs.。
They are a shadow of the good thing that has come.。
Every healing is an act of God's mercy.。
Every prayer answered, a testament to God's goodness.。
Every miracle, an announcement that God's kingdom is here and that there's more to come.。
They point us forward to the day when all is made new,。
to look forward to that day when we will see God face to face。
and hear that he will dwell with them and they will be his people,。
and God himself will be with them as their God.。
He will wipe every tear from their eyes and death will be no more.。
Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore,。
for the former things have passed away.。
And we will all praise him for all eternity, saying, "Worthy is the Lamb who was slain."。
That's what Jesus bought for us.。
And when Jesus answers our prayers, when he does signs and wonders,。
by rising from the dead, Jesus helps our unbelief.。
So we see that Jesus helps us when we're weak in faith, firstly.。
And secondly, Jesus also works to build up our faith.。
He did it by his atoning death on the cross,。
and he also did it by healing this boy and answering this dad's prayers.。
Lastly, thirdly, we see that Jesus also helps us when we ask him in faith.。
Let's read from verse 28.。
"And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him in private,。
'Why could we not cast it out?'。
And he said to them, 'This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer.'"。
Remember we saw earlier that the disciples weren't able to cast out the demon,。
and they were wondering why.。
They asked Jesus, and he answers them,。
"Guys, you need to pray. You need to pray."。
And isn't that kind of funny that the disciples tried to cast out a demon,。
a literal demon, without thinking to pray?。
Imagine that, the disciples rocking up to an exorcism, forgetting to pray.。
There's a demon-possessed boy. He's going crazy.。
They can't control him. They can't do anything.。
Nothing is working.。
And still somehow, they neglect to pray.。
Why is that?。
Matthew gives a parallel account of this story.。
There, the disciples ask the same question in Matthew 17, verse 19.。
They ask, "Why could we not cast it out?"。
And Jesus replies, "Because of your little faith.。
For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed,。
you will say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there,'。
and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you."。
In other words, Jesus is saying that if you have faith, then you will pray.。
And God will listen, and he will act.。
Nothing is impossible for God.。
See, the disciples couldn't cast out the demon because they lacked faith.。
And because they had little faith, they didn't pray.。
And now, before we get too smug of ourselves,。
making fun of the disciples for trying to exorcise a demon without praying,。
we also ought to examine ourselves as well.。
Do we always pray as earnestly as we ought to pray?。
Or maybe, like the disciples, we're looking a bit silly sometimes.。
And I'll be the first to say, I don't pray enough.。
Honestly, when preparing to preach for today, I was staring at this passage,。
working hard to understand it, reading, trying to organize my thoughts.。
And then it hit me. I just really needed to pray。
in order to understand and deliver to you what God had to say.。
Nothing I say has power unless God's Spirit works in your hearts, works in our hearts.。
I've also even caught myself sharing the Gospel recently。
without adequate prayer, without stopping to pray.。
And that's crazy, isn't it?。
Because it's God who removes the veil from blind eyes and shines light into dark hearts.。
We can do nothing without God.。
And if we really trust Jesus when he says that,。
"I am the vine, you are the branches.。
"Abide in me and I in you, and you will bear much fruit.。
"Apart from me, you can do nothing."。
If we trust that, and if we trust that it is God who works in us,。
both to will and to work for our good pleasure,。
then we need to pray.。
And if we don't pray, if we don't pray like this, then we can pray.。
Help my unbelief.。
Psalm 127 says,。
"Unless the Lord builds a house, those who build it labor in vain.。
"Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchmen stay awake in vain.。
"It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest."。
And I add to that, that's all because we do not pray.。
And so we need to pray.。
Help my unbelief.。
Help my unbelief.。
Why would we want to do anything without asking God to help us?。
He promises that with faith the size of even a mustard seed,。
even the tiniest smidgen of faith, God will move mountains for us.。
Do we believe this or are we trying to move the mountain ourselves?。
Imagine hiking up Dragon's Back with a shovel in one hand。
and a metal bucket in the other,。
thinking because if this mountain is going to move anywhere,。
I've got to start digging.。
It's all on me, one scoop at a time to do this.。
And while we're sweating and driving our shovel in the ground,。
we wonder why is this such difficult work?。
Why is this so hard?。
Why am I sweating so much?。
That's the picture when we try to do things without prayer.。
God could send all of Hong Kong Island to Macau with so much as a word.。
He wouldn't even have to lift a finger.。
And this same God is waiting to hear our prayers.。
He's waiting to work on our behalf.。
Isaiah 64 says, "For since the world began, no eye has heard,。
"no ear has heard, and no eye has seen a God like you。
"who works for those who wait for him."。
Church, our God listens when we pray, and he loves to hear our prayers.。
He hears and he acts according to his good pleasure.。
So we need to pray.。
Last thing, how do we pray in faith?。
What does that mean?。
First, what it is, and then what it isn't.。
We should pray with faith that God is both able and willing to answer our prayers,。
that God is able.。
Faith doesn't say, like the dad, "If you can do anything."。
Faith says, "You can do anything.。
"I believe you, God.。
"You can heal him.。
"You can save her.。
"You can do it without even lifting a finger."。
And if you can't pray that, if we can't believe that,。
then we already know what to pray.。
"Help my unbelief.。
"I want to pray more.。
"Help my unbelief."。
Praying with faith is knowing not just that God is able,。
but that he's also willing to hear our prayers.。
We know we have boldness and access to God with confidence through our faith in Christ.。
And we can pray for things that God is pleased to do.。
This doesn't mean that God will necessarily do all that we ask all the time.。
For example, not everyone will be saved,。
even though God desires that all people to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth.。
But we can still ask him in confidence that he loves to save.。
Or we will continue to sin in this life,。
but we can still pray with confidence that God has not called us to impurity, but to holiness.。
So we can pray according to God's will for the things that please him.。
And we can know what is God's will by reading his word and storing it up in our hearts。
so that we're transformed by the renewal of our minds,。
that by testing, we may discern what is the will of God.。
And so we can pray accordingly.。
Let's pray with faith that God is both able and willing to answer our prayers.。
And now, what isn't?。
So praying with faith isn't some new age, self-help type of prayer。
where we just manifest and conjure up the life that we want.。
Faith doesn't come up from false hope in whatever outcome we want。
and then deluding ourselves to believe it.。
There's no promise that we can name and claim whatever we want.。
There's no guarantee that we will be rich if we believe hard enough。
or that that person will surely be healed.。
And if we deceive ourselves, God doesn't promise that he'll play along.。
Instead, faith is the confident assurance of truth, the hope of realities, of substance,。
not just whims and illusions.。
And we can guard ourselves with praying based on the truth revealed in God's word。
and by testing our desires and our prayers according to it.。
And as we pray and we surrender our will to God,。
I believe that God's spirit is able, that he does and can give a special revelation。
or a gift of faith as he sees fit so that we know how to pray for a specific outcome.。
Perhaps to know that particular person will be healed.。
That's a gift that God gives.。
We can ask God in prayer to give us some special gift of faith.。
And if he gives us that gift, if he gives us that assurance,。
then we can pray with confident assurance that we have received it。
just as his spirit has revealed to us.。
But if not, then I don't think it's wise to conjure up, to create confidence。
in something that God has not given us reason to be confident about.。
I don't think that's what it means to pray in faith.。
But to sum it all up, again today, we've been looking at the heart of Jesus that comforts.。
Jesus comforts us by meeting us where we are, even when we're weak.。
He helps us when we're weak and lacking in faith.。
He invites us to call on him and to trust in him in our weakness.。
But he doesn't let us stay weak. He doesn't keep us weak.。
He works to build up our faith.。
He uses both blessings and trials in our life to show that he's trustworthy.。
And the greatest miracle that he did for us was dying on the cross for our sins。
and rising on the third day.。
And finally, when we have faith, when we have this true trust in Jesus,。
we can find comfort that God really hears our prayers when we pray with faith.。
He hears us and he listens and he acts.。
So let's pray more. Let's cry to him, "Help my unbelief."。
For some of us here, the prayers might be, "I don't believe. Help my unbelief."。
For others, it's, "I know you. I know you, God. I believe you, Father.。
Help my unbelief. Help me to trust you more. I want to love you more every day.。
I want to see you more beautifully every day. Help my unbelief."。
And as fitting, we're going to pray now, but I'm going to ask the band today to remain seated。
because today we're all going to focus and pray together as a church.。
We're not praying after the sermon to stall for time, to set up for a smooth transition.。
We're praying because we trust that God hears our prayers.。
And if there's an awkward silence when they come up later, that's fine.。
We can continue to pray while they set up.。
We can pray individually in silence.。
And we're going to pray like this today because we believe.。
We believe that God hears our prayers, that he listens, that he loves us and cares for us.。
He comforts us.。
And if we don't believe that today, then right now we can pray, "Help my unbelief."。
So let's pray.。
Father, we look to you.。
Some of us here can't say we believe in God, but we, God, we ask,。
we trust that you know your sheep, you know your people, you love to save.。
If there's anyone here today that needs to cry, "Help my unbelief, Lord,"。
we pray that you would answer that prayer for them,。
that they would see Christ, call on him by faith, and be saved.。
We trust that your Spirit can do that, that you shine light into dark hearts.。
For us, the church, God, we also pray that you would teach us to pray.。
We confess, we repent that we don't pray as we ought to.。
God, we ask, "Help our unbelief. Help us. Give us more faith to pray, to pray big things,。
to trust, to know in confidence that you hear our prayers, that you are God,。
that you're bigger than all our problems, that you're able and willing to help us."。
God, we pray for our church in this new season,。
that you would work, not just to make this transition to Sunday smooth,。
but that, God, this would be the beginning of a great new season that you're doing in our church,。
that you would make us a church that goes and makes disciples of all nations,。
that is passionate, that is on fire to see people come to know you,。
to see disciples being raised,。
that we would be bold to go preach the gospel to our coworkers, our friends, to draw people to you,。
and that we would desire to get to know you more, that we'd be passionate to worship you,。
that we would be a church that is a light in the city,。
that the city, your spirit would move in all of us,。
just to love you, to worship you,。
and that you would send us out to the ends of the earth where Christ has not been named,。
to preach Christ to peoples that don't know you.。
We pray for governments and authorities that oppress your church.。
We pray that your spirit would move in their hearts to repent,。
that they would be our brothers and sisters,。
that they would confess Christ, they would call on his name and be saved.。
We trust that you can do this, that you love to save all people.。
And so, Lord, help us to pray more.。
Help us to pray as we go into work, as we go into school,。
in everything that we do, the work we do with our hands.。
When work gets tough, Lord, help us to pray.。
Teach us to pray even when we're at work 10 hours a day,。
focusing on what's in front of us.。
Teach us to pray.。
Teach us to pray for our friends, our families, our coworkers that don't know you.。
To fall on our knees and beg that you can heal them,。
help my unbelief, you can heal them, you can save them.。
And, Lord, would you answer.。
God, we pray that we would be a praying church,。
a church that calls on you by faith, that sees you.。
Lord, you are able to work in our hearts.。
So we pray, help our unbelief, help us to see you more, Lord.。
We pray all this in Jesus' name, amen.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
