Good evening, everybody. How are you guys doing? How do you guys like my glass house?。
Do I look better over here? Do I look younger? Yeah? Okay. I should stand in front of it。
then. Welcome to the Esther series. We are finishing Esther. How have you guys liked。
the book of Esther so far? Yeah? JP's not convinced. We should cheer louder to convince。
him. Should we cheer a little bit louder? How have you liked Esther? Okay. Maybe somebody。
has to go through the book of Esther with JP again. Maybe he missed some things. But。
we're talking about for such a time as this, rest from our enemies. Rest from our enemies.。
If it's your first time and you're just getting into Esther, let me give you a really quick。
recap. So the Jews have been threatened, right? There's this villain. His name is Haman, right?。
His name is Haman. He has some beef with a guy named Mordecai and he finds out Mordecai。
is actually Jewish, right? And these Jewish people haven't been really following, you。
know, worshiping the king or whatever that religious things that they do back then. And。
so he gets really mad and is like, yo, I want to not only destroy this guy, but his entire。
people, right? And so Mordecai is really afraid and he goes to the queen who happens to win。
a beauty pageant and becomes the queen and his name, her name is Esther, right? And Esther。
has this famous line that says, if I perish, I perish, right? Like Mordecai asks her, help。
our people, save our people. If I perish, I perish. And so she goes before the king。
and the king, you know, accepts her, right? Welcomes her in. And it is like that she has。
been placed there for such a time as this. And then Pastor John did a wonderful explanation。
of the feud between Haman and Mordecai last week, right? Mordecai and Haman. And he talked。
about the pride of Haman, the character of pride, the deadliness of pride and the cure。
of pride. And that is in Jesus. And so now we go to the climax of this story, the climax。
of this story. And so there was a first banquet and now Esther has set up a second banquet.。
And so we continue to read chapter seven. So the king and Haman went to Queen Esther's。
banquet and as they were drinking wine the second day, the king asked, Queen Esther,。
what is your petition? It will be given to you. What is your request? Up to half the。
kingdom, it will be granted. Then queen answered, the queen answered, if I have found favor。
with you, my majesty, and if it pleases you, grant me my life. This is my petition and。
spare my people. This is my request. For I and my people have been sold to be destroyed,。
killed and annihilated. If we have been merely sold as male and female slaves, I would be,。
I would keep quiet because such a distress would justify, would not justify disturbing。
the queen, the king. The king answered the queen, Esther, who is he? Who is he? The man。
who has dared to do such a thing? Esther said, an adversary, an enemy, this vile Haman. Then。
Haman was terrified before the king and queen. The king got up in rage, left with his wine。
and went out in the palace garden. But Haman, realizing that the king had already decided。
his fate, stayed behind to beg queen Esther for his life. The first thing we're going。
to talk about is rise, rise. Who rise? Who rises? Esther rises up to save the Jews. She。
was willing to put her life on the line. She had no idea what would happen, right? If you。
went into the presence of the king, right, without being requested, the king could have。
ordered that you be killed. And so we see here that Esther has courage and not only。
courage, but wisdom to know how to save her people. We're going to see in verse three,。
once again, the queen answered, if I have found favor with you, my majesty, and if it。
pleases you, grant me my life. This is my petition and spare my people. This is my request.。
We see first that she has a premise. If I have found favor, if I have your favor. Firstly,。
the king chose her to be the queen out of this beauty pageant, he chose her. And the。
second thing is this queen, because she was chosen by the king, their reputation is tied。
together, right? The queen and the king, the reputation is tied together. And lastly, you。
have given me your heart, right? The king has married the queen. He has given him, given。
her his heart. And so that's the premise. If I have your favor, and then there's a petition。
and the petition is this, save my life. It is like an assault on the queen is an assault。
on the king, right? My people have been threatened. So you have also been threatened. We see such。
wisdom in this, right? Esther shows wisdom. She basically comes out of her closet and。
says, I am a Jew, right? She's announcing it to the king. She's taking a huge risk.。
She might, she doesn't know exactly what's going to happen if she does this, right? Because。
who ordered the Jews to be, to be annihilated? Who ordered that? It was the king, right?。
Maybe the king would be like, no, that's my word. I'm a man of my word. My word is final.。
And you, maybe, maybe the king could have felt betrayed, right? How, how come you've。
never told me this? And so it took courage and it took wisdom and Esther rose to the。
challenge to save her people. And so there was a dilemma between the king, all right?。
On one hand, she, she loved Esther. She liked Esther. She chose her to be king. It said。
that she found favor with her, you know, over all the other beauty pageants that were lining。
up. And then we also see that he sort of likes Haman, right? Like he's always around the。
courtyard. He asks Haman, what should I do for this man who has helped me? And then Haman。
gives him advice and the king follows his advice. The king likes both people, right?。
Have you ever been in a situation where you've really liked two people, maybe it's your wife。
and you know, and your friend, and then they have conflict. And then you're like, who do。
I choose? You know, pastor John comes to me all the time about this conflict. No, I'm。
joking. There's no conflict, Sandra. It's okay. It's all right. But sometimes there's。
a dilemma, right? You know, you have two best friends and they don't like each other. And。
it's kind of like an awkward silence, an awkward moment. And so the king could have been going。
through that, right? There's a little bit of a dilemma here. And then another thing。
is he didn't think about the consequences of his decree, right? He's the one who ordered。
it. He's the one who got it sort of got tricked into it, right? By Haman. And so on the other。
hand, the dilemma is I have made this decree. Wouldn't it look bad if I ordered something。
and taking it back? Right? It's like being at a restaurant and ordering something. And。
then 10 minutes later, Oh, I want something else. And you go to the waiter and Hong Kong。
waiters or they'll give you, you know, like, what do you mean you want something else?。
Right? Can you change the order? And she'll be like, and so let's see what happens here.。
Let's see what happens here in verse six to seven. Then Haman was terrified before the。
king and queen, right? Esther just revealed that it was Haman who had done this against。
her and her people. The king got up in rage, left his wine and went out to the palace garden.。
But what did Haman do? Haman realizing that the king had already decided his fate, stayed。
behind to beg queen Esther for his life. Just as the king returned to the palace garden。
to the banquet hall, Haman was falling on the couch where Esther was reclining and the。
king exclaimed, will he molest the queen while she is with me in her house, in the house?。
So it's so funny, right? Because what is Haman trying to do? Haman is begging for his life,。
right? Queen Esther, come on, man. I'm not that bad. You know, I'm just a regular guy.。
You know, I'm not that bad. And then the king storms back in, you know, obviously wine is。
mentioned here because he loves wine. Right? And so he comes back and he sees Haman falling。
on the floor and Esther is sitting there and Haman there. And so he kind of assumes that。
he's assault, like ESV says assault. NIV says molest. Right? There was a rule actually back。
then that anybody, any man could not be in the presence of the King's Harlem alone. The。
queen and the queen or the King's Harlem alone. It was assumed that they were doing something。
they weren't supposed to do. Right? And so the king, when he came back and he saw this,。
it was like, what are you doing to my queen Esther? My queen Esther. And so what was the。
King's decision? The King's decision was to impale Haman on the same pole that he had。
set up for Mordecai. The same pole. Isn't that ironic? It's ironic. And we even, well,。
some translation says it's a gallow, right? Hanging on a gallow. Others say it's a pole.。
Some artifacts might say, it suggests it's something like this. Like it's a, if you see。
the next slide, it's a picture of, of these poles that people were impaled on. It doesn't。
look fun. Right? So I wouldn't try it. And so we saw the King's dilemma, the King's decision.。
And now we see that the King comes up with a new decree, the King's decree and the King's。
edict granted the Jews in every city, the right to assemble and protect themselves to。
destroy, kill, annihilate the armed men of any nationality or province who might attack。
them or their women and children who plunder their property, the property of their enemies.。
So Mordecai, Esther and the King came together and was like, what can we do to save the Jews?。
And the King came up with this new decree, new decree that the Jews are allowed to defend。
themselves. The Jews are allowed to defend themselves. And so the Jews are saved. Firstly,。
we see Esther rises up to save the Jews. She's the heroine with courage, with wisdom. She。
stands up for her people before the King. We see Mordecai also rise to honor and power.。
Right? In the previous chapter last week, Pastor John was like, he was taken up on a。
horse and, and praised around the city in the King's robes or something like that. Mordecai。
was faithful to God. He would not bow down to Haman. He was faithful to God. He trusted。
that God would save his people. And we see later that Mordecai was honored to very high。
place of power in the kingdom. And next we also see that the Jews rose up in the kingdom。
of Persia. The Jews rose up to defend themselves. Thousands of them might've died in the defense。
of their own property and people. Not only do we see Esther, Mordecai and the Jews rise。
up, but we also know of one person that rose up for us and that is Jesus. The problem was。
sin. The problem was our selfishness and our hatred and our desire to go our own way. But。
Jesus saw the problem and he humbled himself from heaven, came down on earth to become。
flesh and he died on the cross for you and me. He rose up to this problem of sin that。
destroyed our relationship with God. And he rose from the dead to conquer death. And next。
we also need to rise up as Christians in the midst of this pandemic and the uncertainty。
in Hong Kong and the world. In the new Testament, I'm just going to summarize a little bit what。
Christians are supposed to be like. How do we rise up as Christians in the midst of this。
pandemic and uncertainty? We're called to be a new creation. For those who are in Christ。
Jesus, you're no longer the old, you are the new. You're a new creation. We're supposed。
to have a new identity in Christ. We're supposed to be transformed in our mind, the renewing。
of our mind as it says in Romans chapter two. Christians are supposed to be empowered by。
the Holy Spirit. We've been going through this in our summer college program, how the。
Holy Spirit allows us to love beyond our capacity, to experience joy, real peace as we resolve。
conflicts, have patience, show kindness and goodness, gentleness, and give us self-control.。
Christians are supposed to preach the word in season and out of season, be prepared to。
give a response, to be the light and salt of our city. Imagine if these kind of Christians。
rose up in the midst of this pandemic, that they were the light and the salt, that they。
preached the good news. They encouraged those who are going through loneliness and hopelessness.。
What kind of change would our city have if these people rose up? I bet you these people。
would make a difference in our city. These people that are called to be Christians in。
the New Testament, they would have a difference. And we've begun to make a difference, haven't。
we? The last couple of weeks we fasted and prayed for our city. Who fasted here? Raise。
your hands. Yeah. Was it easy? Was it easy? No? JP says no. I fasted meat. It was a, it。
was an interesting experience for me. Yeah, I ate a lot of vegetables. We fasted and prayed。
for it. We fasted and prayed for our city. Not feasted. We'll feast later. But we fasted。
for our city. Why? Because we care about our city. We care about the things that are going。
on in this city. We wanted to rise up for our city, to pray for our city. And what else?。
We wanted to give masks. I know you guys love wearing your masks, right? Helps you breathe,。
but we weren't only giving out masks. There were many outreaches that we held in our church.。
Bonnie and the team also held many, many outreaches. And not only were we giving it to the poor。
and needy, we were giving them the word of God. And we gave out, you know, passages that。
came with these masks. And so we see in the book of Esther, that Esther, Mordecai, the。
Jews, they all rose up. They all rose up. And after they rose up, there was also rest.。
Rise and rest. You know, the Israelite people have always been in some sort of captivity,。
right? From Egypt, they were under captivity from Pharaoh for how many years? You guys。
remember? It was like 400 years or something like that. And then now they went to the promised。
land and they had to go through all this struggle against the other nations. And then what happened?。
They were sinning against God. And so God sent them people to punish them, Assyrians.。
And then the Babylonians came. They were always struggling. They were always fighting. They。
never had rest. It was like one thing after another. And so we're going to see here how。
Esther and the Jews had rest after they rose up. Mordecai recorded these events and he。
sent letters to all the Jews throughout all the provinces near and far to have them celebrate。
annually on the 14th and 15th days of the month of Adar as the time when the Jews got。
relief from their enemies. And as the month went, their sorrow turned into joy and their。
mourning into the day of celebration. He wrote them to observe these days of feasting. And。
this feast is actually still celebrated today. It's called Purim. The Jews actually still。
celebrate this to this day to remember how God had saved them from their enemies. So。
we're going to see that the Jews got rest. Esther and the Jews get rest. Jesus also gives。
us rest. And we finally need to find rest in Jesus. Esther and the Jews get rest, right?。
They celebrate Purim on the 14th and 15th day. It's a celebration. It's a feast. Wow.。
The Lord has saved us. Can you imagine what relief it could have been that the Jews were。
under this decree that they would be killed? And then now, yeah, now it's, it's been lifted.。
Well, it's not been lifted, but there's a new decree saying that they could defend themselves.。
What a relief it must've been that they could get rest from their enemies. There's been。
many heroes in the old Testament. Moses, right? Joshua. And as we go into the book of judges,。
we're going to see many heroes and heroines in the old Testament. But all these heroes。
and heroines are just temporary. They're temporary. The Jews were looking for a Messiah that would。
one day save them for all time, right? This Messiah would be their savior. They were looking。
for Jesus. Jesus is the one that ultimately came to save us from enmity, right? Tim Keller。
says Jesus saves us from enmity, which is hostility. The hostility we have between us。
and God. Read with me Romans chapter five, verse, verse eight to 10, one, two, three.。
God demonstrates his love for us in this. While we were still sinners, Christ died for。
us. Since we have now been justified by his blood, how much more shall we be saved through。
God's wrath through him? Verse 10, for if we were God's enemies, let's read together.。
Verse 10, one, two, three. For if while we were still sinners, we were reconciled to。
him through the death of his son, how much more having been reconciled, shall we be saved。
through him? God demonstrates his love for us. How does he demonstrate it? That we were。
enemies of God. Enemies. God considered us enemies, sinners, right? We were enemies of。
God because of the sin that we had within us. God is perfect and our imperfection makes。
us enemies of God. But God wanted to reconcile that relationship. Amongst all things, he。
wanted to restore that relationship and he was willing to give what was most precious。
to him. And that was his son to die for us on the cross so that we could be saved and。
reunited to him. And lastly, since Jesus has provided us a way to fully have rest and peace。
with him, we also need to find rest in Jesus. Have you found rest in Jesus? Firstly, spiritually,。
we need to find rest in Jesus. Many times we rely on ourselves to be good, to get ourselves。
into heaven. But Jesus says it is through him that he is the way, the truth, and the。
life. No one comes to the father except through him. Jesus has provided us salvation. Spiritually,。
we have rest. Physically, we have rest because we can look forward to the day of eternity。
where we spend time with God forever, where there's no more sin, where there's peace for。
all time, no more suffering. Emotionally, we have peace because the fruit of the spirit。
allows us to solve these conflicts that are in our lives. Emotionally, we can get peace。
knowing that we have peace first with God and now through the Holy Spirit, he empowers。
us to live lives of peace with others. Mentally, we can have peace knowing and rest knowing。
that we have purpose in him. He has given us a purpose and that is to have a relationship。
with him. We no longer have to struggle and try to find peace, find purpose on our own.。
But God has given us a purpose to know him. Now, I've shared many times before that I'm。
a doer. I love going from adventure to adventure, from task to task, starting up new things.。
And sometimes the problem with that is you start chasing. You're going from gadget to。
gadget, adventure to adventure, person to person, and you're just going on a rush. You're。
like a busybody and you're not finding real rest. And I'm chasing after all these things。
when the one person that's chasing after me is Jesus. And he wants a relationship with。
me. He's like, "Johnny, I just want to spend time with you. I want to know that I love。
you, that rest can be found in a relationship with me." Not chasing after these things。
or these people or these appointments, but rest comes from a relationship with Jesus。
Christ. And as we conclude, I'm just going to invite the band to come back up. I'm going。
to conclude with these two kinds of questions. And the first one is, will you rise in the。
power of the Holy Spirit to face the challenges that we have today that are in your life?。
It could be spiritual challenges. There could be doubts in your life. It could be physical。
challenges. Are you willing to go in the power of the Holy Spirit to rise up? Esther, Mordecai,。
the Jews back then faced challenges, the challenges of death. Today, we have our own challenges.。
People that are against Christianity, those can be challenges. Are we willing, this pandemic。
is a challenge. Are we willing to rise up as Christians with the identity of Christ,。
the love of Christ empowered by the Holy Spirit to go out, to love people, encourage people,。
to share his good news? Are we willing to rise up? You know, during this pandemic, I've。
been able to text some of my friends all around the world. That's what technology has been。
so great. I can connect with people that I haven't talked to for a while and I can message。
them. And I remember, you know, just a couple months ago, as I was messaging one of my friends。
that I was really good friends with in high school and we haven't caught up for a while,。
he was like, "Yeah, I really was encouraged when you invited me to our church summer camp.。
That's the first time I learned how to pray." And he's a non-Christian. And he just told。
me that a couple months ago. We can rise up and make a difference for Jesus just by caring。
for the people around us, showing the love of God, telling them how God has changed us。
and how Jesus has brought us rest. And lastly, the last question is this, have you found。
rest in Jesus as your Lord and as your Savior? I'm going to invite you to just bow down your。
head and close your eyes. Have you found rest in Jesus? Or have you just been chasing things,。
jobs, people? Have you found rest in Jesus Christ? I'm going to especially challenge。
those who have not come to a relationship with Jesus Christ before. He's knocking on。
the door of your heart, just like he knocks at mine almost daily and says, "I want to。
spend time with you." Jesus is knocking on the door of your heart and he's saying he。
wants a relationship with you. For those who have not invited Jesus Christ into your life,。
I want to give you an opportunity to do that today, tonight. God is here. He died for you。
2,000 years ago on a cross. So this problem of enmity, hostility would be solved. Is there。
anybody out there tonight that wants to have rest in Jesus Christ? To enter a relationship。
with Jesus Christ for the first time? You can raise your hand. Jesus wants to have a。
relationship with you. Is there anybody out there? Just raise your hand and we would love。
to pray with you, pray for you. Is there anybody? Maybe you've been struggling. This pandemic。
has been hard on you. You've been feeling hopeless. There's fear. Jesus wants to give。
you rest and hope. Is there anybody out there that wants to ask Jesus into their life? Let's。
all stand and we'll respond in a song.。
(gentle music)。
