(audience applauding)。
Good.。
While the cats away,。
the mice play.。
We live in interesting times.。
I think in the last few months。
and even the last few days,。
we have all been through a plethora of emotions.。
Now, I need you to read my lips。
and please do not quote me out of context here.。
Democracy is a good thing,。
but it is not a God thing.。
On the other hand,。
what is both a good thing and a God thing is theocracy.。
What is both a good thing and a God thing is theocracy.。
And this described Israel in the time of Joshua.。
At the end of the life of Joshua, reread this.。
"We will serve the Lord our God and obey Him."。
I'll repeat that.。
"We will serve the Lord our God and obey Him."。
But what happened in the next generation。
next generation is a different matter。
and is sadly summed up in the book of Judges.。
And these two verses from chapter two set the scene.。
Verse seven, "The people served the Lord。
throughout the lifetime of Joshua。
and of the elders who outlived him。
and who had seen all the great things。
that God had done for Israel.。
Then Joshua died."。
And in verse 10, we read this.。
"After that, the whole generation。
had been gathered to their ancestors。
another generation grew up。
who knew neither the Lord。
nor what he had done for Israel."。
And Pastor Johnny, that's why we've got to all be 100%。
behind what we're doing for Titus, SCP。
and the various programs.。
So instead of exhibiting spiritual further,。
Israel sank into apathy.。
Instead of obeying the Lord,。
the people moved into apostasy.。
Now I'm looking for words with S, apost word,。
it means abandonment, that's another A.。
Instead of enjoying Lord and order,。
the land was filled with anarchy,。
apathy, abandoning God, anarchy.。
My friends, look at CNN, look at BBC,。
look at SCMP.。
This could be 2020.。
And so we're beginning a new 10 week sermon series。
through the book of Judges.。
We are not going to go through it verse by verse,。
but we will look at it from an overview perspective,。
starting today with Judges one and two.。
(pages rustling)。
The name of the book of Judges comes from the title。
given to 12 leaders known as Judges of Israel。
in the period between Joshua and Samuel.。
Now the book of Judges is made up of poetry,。
riddles, but mainly narrative history.。
Its author is anonymous, but it's normally assumed。
that Samuel the prophet wrote it between 1086 and 1004 BC.。
And over the next few weeks,。
we're gonna be looking at judges like Othniel,。
Ehud, Deborah, Gideon, Abimelech, Jephthah,。
Samson and Delilah.。
But what is the purpose of the book?。
The book's purpose was to teach Israel that God is faithful。
and he will punish people for their sin。
if they don't remain loyal and devoted to him.。
(pages rustling)。
Let me give you a short outline of the book.。
In the first three chapters up to Judges 3, 6,。
we find that the Israelites have failed to keep。
their part of the covenant with God.。
And they didn't entirely conquer and take control。
of the land that they were promised.。
And as we will see through this sermon series,。
the problem unfortunately goes wildly out of control。
as time goes on.。
In Judges 3, 7 up to chapter 16,。
the biggest chunk of the book,。
we see God raising up judges to rescue Israel several times.。
And what we will see that this is a vicious cycle。
that's appearing where the Israelites sin,。
then God rescues them.。
They worship God for a while。
and the sin starts all over again and so forth.。
We will see that these rescues were temporary。
because we find that the nation's obedience only lasted。
for the lifetime of that particular judge.。
In Judges 17 to 21,。
we see Israel sinking into a horrible state。
of demise and ruin.。
And it's during this time that we find the sad words。
of Judges 21, 25, the title for our series.。
In those days, Israel had no king.。
Everyone did as they saw fit.。
Everyone did as they saw fit.。
Do you sort of recognize that?。
We are living in times of political correctness。
where people are afraid to say anything against anyone。
just in case they get sued。
or just in case they think they are being too judgmental.。
And that's because people don't like being told。
that what they're doing is wrong.。
Yet God has spoken.。
His rules are clear.。
He didn't give the Israelites 10 suggestions.。
He gave them 10 commandments.。
And so it's important that they and even us。
know the blessings of obedience。
and the consequences of disobedience.。
And as we go through this really sad book,。
we're gonna see the consequences of a people。
who refuse to be obedient to God.。
This truly what we're gonna be looking at。
for the next 10 weeks is the most evil。
and darkest time in the history of Israel as a nation.。
Look at this, Judges 2, 16.。
"Then the Lord raised up judges。
who saved them out of the hands of these raiders.。
Yet they would not listen to their judges,。
but prostituted themselves to other gods and worshiped them.。
They quickly turned from the ways of their ancestors。
who had been obedient to the Lord's commands."。
This was a time of disaster on a colossal scale。
for the nation of Israel.。
Now we all know, don't we, that God's people,。
the Israelites were led into Canaan to conquer the land.。
But instead they become infected。
with the idolatry of the Canaanites.。
"They were told to make no treaties with the inhabitants.。
They were not to marry any foreigners,。
but they were happy to settle amongst the Canaanites."。
To the point is, the point is,。
you don't know who the Israelites were。
and who the Canaanites were.。
Instead of driving out the Canaanites,。
they just became like them。
and practiced what they practiced.。
Right from the very first few verses in Judges,。
we can see Israel only partially obeying God.。
Judges 1 verse 6,。
"Adonai Bezek fled, but they chased him。
and they caught him.。
And then what did they do?。
They cut off his thumbs and big toes."。
Now, what were they supposed to do?。
They were supposed to kill off the Canaanites.。
And what did they do?。
They mutilated the captured king,。
which was the very practice of the Canaanites.。
There's more.。
Verse 28, "When Israel became strong,。
they pressed the Canaanites into forced labor,。
but never drove them out completely."。
What were they supposed to do?。
They were supposed to drive the Canaanites out of the land.。
But what did they do?。
They kept them and forced them to work for them.。
I say to you tonight, KFCI,。
do you see how easy it is。
to allow the world around us to influence us?。
The world is trying to conform us to its standards。
and its ways, but God doesn't want us to think。
the way the world thinks.。
God has called us to a higher standard。
and we have to answer to a higher authority.。
Israel was happy to compromise with the world around them。
during this time.。
And that compromise,。
the compromise with the Canaanites。
led them into idolatry, into marriage,。
and eventually to having no rules.。
Judges 17, six, "In those days, Israel had no king.。
Everyone did as they saw fit."。
What a sad picture this is。
of God's chosen people.。
Now you might be forgiven for thinking,。
we don't fall down on worship idols today.。
But I need to tell you。
that the old gods are still with us today.。
They've simply updated their appearance。
and they've updated their accommodating times.。
They still claim to provide the meaning to life。
and they still promise to provide for our personal desires.。
They still demand wholehearted commitment。
from their worshippers.。
And what are those idols called?。
Materialism,。
comfort,。
power,。
and sensual immorality.。
Let me say it again.。
Materialism,。
comfort,。
power,。
and sensual immorality.。
And so the outcome of Israel's compromise。
was the shocking reality。
that the real enemy。
became God himself.。
I need to tell you that if you're picking which side。
to be in, don't have God on the other side.。
And he ensured that when they went out to battle,。
the outcome was defeat.。
But God, who is rich in mercy,。
in his grace, raised up leaders。
to bring Israel back into line.。
You see, the judges were deliverers.。
They were charged with restoring the peace.。
They were spiritual as well as political leaders.。
And there are 12 judges listed.。
Now we're given a lot of information about some of them.。
And whilst other judges are simply just mentioned,。
and I've put the series up here,。
we will be covering the major ones.。
And as we go through this sad, almost depressing book,。
we will see that everything rises and falls on leadership.。
I think I better say that again。
'cause it still applies today.。
Everything rises and falls on leadership.。
But we will also see that God uses weak, imperfect people,。
like you and me, to accomplish his work.。
And he uses the most unlikely leaders。
to demonstrate his grace and power.。
You see, for Israel during the period of judges,。
it was a time of war.。
Like I mentioned earlier,。
the Jewish nation were charged。
with driving out the Canaanites.。
But you've got to ask yourself,。
why would God send them to a land that was already occupied?。
Why couldn't he send them to a place where no one lived。
so they could settle there。
and they didn't have to have any influence around them?。
After all, they spent 40 years of hardship。
in the wilderness.。
And now they were gonna have to deal。
with internal and external conflict.。
Judges chapter three tells us this.。
James will be covering it next week, but please follow this.。
These are the nations the Lord left。
to test all those Israelites。
who had not experienced any of the wars in Canaan.。
He did this only to teach warfare。
to the descendants of the Israelites。
who had not had previous battle experience.。
The five rulers of the Philistines, the Canaanites,。
the Sidonians, the Hivites,。
living in the Lebanon mountains。
from Mount Balhamun to Lebohama.。
They were left to test the Israelites,。
to see whether they would obey the Lord's command,。
which he had given to their ancestors through Moses.。
God led them to Canaan to test them.。
He wanted to know if they would be obedient to him.。
He wanted his people to trust him,。
to trust in his mighty power,。
to trust that he would help them。
take hold of the promised land.。
He wanted them to remember that they were holy,。
chosen and his treasured possession.。
He wanted them to remember who they were as a people。
and that they needed to know how holy they were to be.。
They needed to remember why, why they were chosen。
and just how treasured they were to God.。
Now, remember, we are dealing with a new generation。
of Israelites from those who had wandered in the desert.。
Judges 2, verse 10,。
after that whole generation。
had been gathered to their ancestors,。
another generation grew up who knew neither the Lord。
nor what he had done for Israel.。
But this second generation was responsible。
for their own spiritual failings.。
The text says they didn't know God.。
It doesn't mean they weren't aware of God.。
It means they did not regard or acknowledge God。
as their Lord.。
Things haven't changed very much today, have they?。
Most people in the world are aware of the God of the Bible,。
but they refuse to have any regard for him。
or acknowledge him as their God.。
Now, when we go through this book,。
you will see that Israel are acting。
almost like children in classroom.。
Do you remember that?。
For some of us, it's a long time ago.。
(audience laughing)。
You know what happened。
when the teacher leaves the room, right?。
Teacher leaves the room for a while, at least in my day.。
You can almost guarantee that the kids。
will get up to all sorts of mischief.。
When the cat's away, the mice play.。
Pitches up again, as the saying goes.。
And that was what it was like for the judges.。
When they appeared, God appeared,。
and everyone went back to their best behaviour.。
But as soon as a judge dies,。
the children of Israel got involved。
in all kinds of sinful practices.。
You see, whenever people are left to themselves,。
you can almost guarantee it won't be long。
before we find ourselves in deep trouble.。
God had delivered them from the terrible slavery in Egypt,。
and He led them through the wilderness,。
giving them blessing after blessing.。
They were His favoured people.。
They were the chosen ones of the Lord God Almighty.。
And so He led them, He fed them, He protected them,。
and eventually He led them into the land of Canaan,。
which was their promised land.。
It was a land flowing with milk and honey,。
and it was given to them, not because they were so great,。
but because God had promised this land to their ancestors.。
What other ways were they blessed?。
They were blessed with God's protection.。
Judges 1:19 says,。
The man of Judah.。
This shows us that God was actively involved。
in helping Israel conquer the nation of Canaan.。
And so He not only prepared the way,。
He also protected them along the way.。
They also had the blessing of God's power.。
Judges 1 verse 4,。
This tells us who the real power on the battlefield was.。
It was God.。
He is the God of all power.。
And we too, as Christians,。
have the same power available today and at work in us.。
What other blessing did they have?。
Well, they had the blessing of God's promises.。
For hundreds of years,。
beginning with Abraham in Genesis chapter 12,。
God had been promising to give the nation of Israel。
a homeland, and so they were blessed。
beyond their wildest dreams.。
The blessing of God's protection,。
of God's power, and of God's promises.。
But as we've already seen,。
all those blessings were quickly gonna be removed。
by God Himself.。
This new generation of Israelites forgot their heritage。
and denied the very God who made them who they were.。
And so slowly, but surely,。
they went down the compromising route.。
God had warned them before they entered the land,。
back in Numbers 33,。
that they must destroy the people of Canaan.。
But they also had another warning.。
He said this,。
"But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land,。
those you allow to remain will become barbs in your eyes。
and thorns in your sights.。
They will give you trouble in the land where you live.。
And then I will do to you what I plan to do to them."。
So as we will see over the next few weeks,。
sadly, this was gonna become a harsh reality for Israel.。
Here the text tells us there were some Canaanites。
they didn't fear, and so they forced them to work for them.。
But again, they didn't drive them out of the land.。
Judges 1.32, the Asherites lived amongst。
the Canaanite inhabitants of the land。
because they did not drive them out.。
Neither did Nathali, drive out those。
who were living in Beth Shemesh or Beth-anath.。
But the Nathalites too lived amongst。
the Canaanite inhabitants of the land,。
and those living in Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath。
became forced laborers for them.。
My question,。
isn't there a danger。
of history repeating itself。
with God's children today?。
I mean,。
we spend a lot of time surrounded by sin,。
and sometimes we become desensitized to it.。
Now, I enjoy chilling out watching Netflix,。
particularly during COVID-19.。
I've gotta be honest with you guys,。
I didn't realize how desensitized。
I had become.。
The amount of swearing, the amount of using。
the Lord's name in vain in films,。
naked bodies on films that are rated for 13-year-olds.。
It's unbelievable.。
You see, instead of maintaining。
our spiritual purity as Christians,。
we begin to adopt the ways of the world.。
Church, there are times。
when we talk like them, we walk like them,。
we do what they do, we go where they go,。
we watch what they watch,。
we like what they like and behave like they behave.。
And if we're not careful,。
we will become like Israel during the time of the judges.。
We can very easily adopt the attitude。
that sin isn't all that bad anyway.。
We can very easily allow the walls of separation。
that existed between the church and the world。
to erode to a point where it's hard to tell。
the difference between the two any longer.。
In other words, do we really feel。
that we can play around with sin。
and avoid getting burnt?。
Do we really believe that God is gonna allow His people。
to sin without being punished?。
Because of their sin, Israel faced the Lord's judgment。
and as we will see, they were gonna have to endure。
a divine sentence from God.。
Now I know this has been a tough message today,。
but it's not all doom and gloom.。
Let's turn our Bibles to Judges 2.60.。
I'm gonna ring from the King James Version.。
Nevertheless, the Lord raised up judges。
which delivered them out of the hand。
to those that spoiled them.。
Isn't that amazing?。
In spite of their failures, God still sent them,。
men and women, to lead them and speak to them.。
And as we're gonna see over the next few weeks,。
sometimes God's people listened。
and sometimes they didn't.。
But, and this is important, church,。
despite all their sin, despite all their hard-heartedness,。
God still loves them and God is patient with them,。
giving them every chance to set things right.。
Oh, how we need to hear that kind of message, don't we?。
If only we can be as loving and patient with each other。
as we expect God to be with us.。
We say, "God, I've let you down so many times this week.。
"I'm so sorry."。
God says, "I know you have.。
"Nevertheless, I still love you."。
We say, "God, I'm really struggling with sin in my life.。
"I'm so sorry, please forgive me."。
And God says, "I know you are.。
"Nevertheless, I'm being patient with you.。
"And if you repent, I will forgive you."。
Or maybe you're here tonight and you're not yet a Christian。
and you're thinking, "Hey, I've done too many bad things。
"in my life for God to have any interest in me."。
And God says to you tonight, "And if that's you here,。
"I know you have.。
"Nevertheless, I love you so much。
"and I sent my son to die for you."。
Although the book of Judges is a record。
of Israel's very dark history,。
which can be very challenging to read and apply today.。
And yes, there are blessings for being obedient to God.。
And yes, we can see there are consequences to be paid。
when we're disobedient to God.。
But as we take the next 10 weeks。
to read very carefully between the lines,。
I believe that each one of us will see the love。
and the grace of God like we've never seen before.。
And I don't know about you, I'm excited about that.。
Can I ask the band to come up?。
I know tonight hasn't been an easy word to receive.。
It's not been jolly John at the front tonight.。
This is a very important word for us。
because there is good news at the end of it.。
If you will throw yourself upon God and God's mercy,。
He says, "I know what you've done,。
but nevertheless, I love you.。
I bless you. I will guide you."。
The book of Judges is the story of our God's grace and mercy.。
I wanna use this time that we have left tonight。
for us to throw ourselves upon God's grace and mercy.。
Can you close your eyes, please?。
I realise this has not been an evangelistic sermon tonight,。
but I wanna give an opportunity for anyone here tonight。
who is currently not following Jesus Christ.。
We just wanna say we are so grateful。
that you're here with us this evening.。
(gentle music)。
This is not all bad news。
because if you will come before God tonight。
and admit that you've done things wrong,。
admit that you need His forgiveness,。
and that you'll come to the cross of Jesus.。
There is forgiveness.。
There's the grace that we sang about.。
And I wanna give an opportunity now for anyone who's here。
to receive Jesus Christ as their personal Lord and Saviour.。
This is not about the person sitting next to you.。
It's not about your family or your friends.。
This is about you.。
You say, "Pastor John,。
you've painted a pretty tough picture of God tonight."。
Remember, this was the same God。
who sent His Son to die for you。
and die for me upon the cross.。
And if you will accept that tonight,。
you can receive His grace and mercy.。
Just while every eye is closed, and please respect this,。
if you'd like to avail yourself。
of this free gift of salvation tonight,。
to receive Jesus Christ as your Lord and Saviour,。
I'd love to pray for you.。
If you'd like to be included in that prayer,。
I'm gonna ask you to do one very, very simple thing,。
just while every eye is closed.。
If you could put your hand up,。
and I know who I'm praying for.。
If you would like tonight to give your life to Jesus Christ,。
I'm gonna give you a few moments.。
Just put your hand up, and I would love to pray for you.。
Thank you, thank you for, thank you.。
See hands across the place.。
We have a number of hands that are going up.。
Now, I never know why somebody has responded。
in an article like this,。
but what I wanna say is God sees this.。
One, two, three, are there any more。
that you wanna give your life to Jesus Christ?。
Just put your hand up.。
Thank you, I see that hand as well.。
We'll just wait for a moment.。
Let's all pray together,。
shall we, just for the benefit。
of those that are raising their hands.。
Repeat after me, Father God,。
I come to you tonight,。
and surrender my life.。
I realize I've done things wrong,。
but I know you as a God of mercy and grace.。
You sent your Son, Jesus Christ,。
to die for my sins.。
Jesus, I believe you're the Son of God.。
I believe you died for my sins.。
Come into my life.。
Forgive me.。
Fill me with your Holy Spirit.。
And help me to live a life that pleases you.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
Shall we welcome those people who've prayed that prayer.。
And if you prayed that prayer,。
please see somebody afterwards,。
whoever friends, or come to the well afterwards。
and someone will pray for you.。
Now our response song tonight。
is a song of reflection.。
It's not a jolly jolly,。
oh praise the name of the Lord our God.。
We're gonna sing that song。
we've been singing for a couple of weeks,。
that lovely song,。
Lord, you're sovereign over us.。
And I want you to at least start off。
by staying in your seats。
and allowing this.。
If you want to kneel, kneel.。
If you want to sit, sit.。
But this is time for you to do business with God.。
There's one thing we've all got in common in this room.。
We're all sinners.。
Actually the Bible calls us wretched sinners.。
But the thing we've all got in common。
is the blood of Jesus Christ which saves us.。
We are saved by grace.。
You cannot be saved by your good works.。
You cannot be saved by what you do.。
You can only be saved by faith in Jesus Christ.。
So I just invite you to use this time.。
It's your time with God.。
Don't worry about what the person next to you is doing.。
Either listen to these words,。
allow Paul to sing them over you.。
But whether you've been a Christian for two minutes。
or whether you've been a Christian for 50 years,。
I beg you tonight,。
just throw yourself upon God.。
Throw yourself upon His mercy and grace。
because He is there ready to receive us.。
He is more ready to give than we are to ask.。
Let's finish this service by doing business。
with a God of mercy, a God of grace,。
a God of forgiveness,。
and a God who will give you and I life.。
Let's worship together.。
(gentle music)。
