>> Thank you, Johnny.。
Good evening, everybody, and good evening to those watching on YouTube.。
I want to talk tonight about jigsaw puzzles.。
The rise of jigsaw puzzle sales during the COVID-19 pandemic is, well, puzzling.。
Social media is filled with images of completed, half-completed, or sometimes abandoned puzzles.。
And we all know the frustration, don't we?。
You do a thousand-piece jigsaw puzzle, and you're just coming to the end, and that last。
piece is missing.。
You say a few words, which I can't repeat, blaming it on the manufacturer, when in fact,。
you have lost the piece.。
Now we have called this series, "Dear Church."。
I see church as a jigsaw puzzle.。
You each have a piece.。
When we put them together, it is a complete picture.。
I want to tell you tonight and those people watching online, we need every piece.。
We need you to bring your piece to complete the puzzle.。
And we need you not to hold the missing piece.。
Actually, this is my first preaching sermon here for five weeks.。
The last time I preached at KFC, we were on Zoom.。
Does that make me a lazy pastor?。
Don't answer that one.。
Well, I see our team, Pastor James, Pastor Johnny, Pastor Michelle, and yes, Bonnie as。
well, as a jigsaw.。
But what has this got to do with the book of Revelation?。
Well, I also see the seven letters as a jigsaw puzzle.。
We can look at all seven, piece them together.。
And here we have a map, a picture of the seven.。
When we piece them together, Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamon, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia,。
and Lydicea, I believe we can also get a picture, a complete picture of what God is saying to。
the church.。
And that is the point of this Dear Church series.。
What is still saying, listen to what the Spirit is saying to the church.。
I'll put it another way, more bluntly, listen or else.。
So we told you right at the beginning, those seven churches are now seven piles of rock.。
And so today is our halfway mark, lesson number four.。
As we read and understand the letter to the church in Thyatira, the fourth piece of the。
jigsaw, what we're gonna see is how the picture is starting to come together and what it means。
to us today.。
And God is saying to us today, "Church, watch out."。
Let's read it.。
To the angel of the church in Thyatira writes,。
"These are the words of the Son of God, whose eyes are like blazing fire and whose feet。
are like burnished bronze.。
I know your deeds, your love and your faith, your service and perseverance, and that you。
are now doing more than you did at first.。
Nevertheless, I have this against you.。
You tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophet.。
By her teaching, she misleads my servants into sexual immorality and the eating of food。
sacrificed to idols.。
I have given her a time to repent of her immorality, but she is unwilling.。
And so I will cast her into a bed of suffering.。
And I will make those who commit adultery with her suffer intensely, unless they repent。
of their ways.。
I will strike her children dead.。
Then all the churches will know that I am He who searches hearts and minds, and I will。
repay each one of you according to your deeds.。
Now I say to the rest of you in Thyatira, to those who do not hold to her teaching and。
have not learned Satan's so-called deep secrets, I will not impose any other burden on you。
except to hold on to what you have until I come.。
To the one who is victorious and does my will to the end, I will give authority over the。
nations that one will rule them with an iron scepter and will dash them to pieces like。
pottery just as I have received authority from my Father.。
I will also give that one the morning star.。
And he finishes in the usual way, whoever as hears, let them hear what the Spirit says。
to the churches.。
Now the first thing we notice is that the longest message was sent to the church in。
the smallest city.。
Thyatira was a wealthy town on the Lycus River in the Roman province of Asia.。
It's what we call modern day Turkey.。
Thyatira was on the borders of Lydia and Mycenae and was the original home of Lydia, the Dyer。
of the Purple Cloth.。
It was about 40 miles east-southeast of Pergamon and a similar distance northeast of Smyrna.。
And the church may well have been started by Lydia herself.。
Thyatira was a military town as well as a commercial center with many trade guilds.。
Many trade guilds, that is the key.。
Wherever guilds were found, idolatry and immorality, the two great enemies of the early church。
were always or almost always present too.。
Pastor Michelle shared this when she spoke about Pergamon.。
In 1817, similar to the pagan gods of Pergamon, remember, the city here boasted a special。
temple.。
This time to Apollo, the sun god.。
Now Apollo has been recognized, you'll see him on the screen.。
As a god of archery, music and dance, truth and prophecy, healing and diseases, the sun。
and light and poetry and more.。
He is one of the most important and complex of the Greek gods.。
He is the son of Zeus, the twin brother of Artemis, goddess of the hunt.。
As you can see from the picture, he was seen as the most beautiful god and the ideal of。
a beardless athletic youth.。
Apollo is considered to be the most Greek of all gods.。
And this might explain why the Lord himself, Jesus introduced himself as the son of God.。
This is the only time in the book of Revelation that this title, the son of God is used.。
We read right at the beginning.。
These are the words of the son of God.。
The apostle John had to deliver a message of severe warning and judgment to this congregation,。
which explains the description of the Lord's eyes and feet.。
We read this.。
These are the words of the son of God whose eyes are like blazing fire and whose feet。
are like burnished bronze.。
Let me explain this.。
Firstly, eyes like a blazing fire.。
Other translations say a flame of fire.。
Fire in the Bible is a symbol of holiness as God is holy.。
But it also symbolizes God's anger against sin.。
Fire is penetrating and piercing and it consumes everything in its path.。
And if you're in it, you can't hide from it.。
What does this mean to us?。
It means that no one can hide from the Lord and nothing is hidden from him.。
He sees all and his wrath is like a fire.。
We then read his feet are like burnished bronze.。
Other versions, fine brass.。
Bronze or brass in the Bible represents judgment.。
You see I put scales up here.。
Judgment for disobeying God.。
And what this means is because God is all seeing and all knowing, he will eventually。
judge everyone according to their deeds.。
From this uncompromising introduction, we move on to the main body of the letter.。
Can I be honest Pastor James, one of my favourite points of the whole series was when you introduced。
the poo sandwich.。
The nature of these letters.。
And James was talking about the success and the errors, at least five of the churches。
and his suggestions.。
Jesus through the apostle John follows this approach.。
But for today at East, I want to call it the three A's approach.。
Approval, accusation and assurance.。
It sounds better than a poo sandwich, doesn't it?。
So let's start on the first one, approval.。
Verse 19.。
Look at this.。
"I know your deeds, your love and your faith, your service and perseverance, and that you。
are now doing more than you did at first."。
So far, so good.。
The believers in Thyatira were a busy lot.。
They were involved in sacrificial ministry for the sake of others.。
What's more, their works were increasing and they were characterised by faith and love。
and patience.。
So this church was not guilty of mere religious activity.。
It looks like the description of a perfect church.。
But a perfect church doesn't exist.。
If you think you find a perfect church, don't you join it because you'll spoil it.。
There is no such thing as a perfect church.。
And so we come to the accusation.。
The Lord, alas, found much to expose and condemn in the assembly.。
Nevertheless, I have this against you.。
You tolerate that woman Jezebel who calls herself a prophet.。
By her teaching, she misleads my servants into sexual immorality and the eating of food。
sacrificed to idols.。
I've given her a time to repent of her immorality, but she is unwilling.。
So I will cast her on a bed of suffering.。
I will make those who commit adultery with her suffer intensely unless they repent of。
their ways.。
I will strike her children dead.。
Then all the churches will know that I am He who searches hearts and minds.。
And I will repay each of you according to your deeds.。
Ouch.。
What is being said here is that no amount of loving and sacrificial work can compensate。
for tolerance of evil.。
Now I want to just stop there for a moment.。
Tolerance can be a very good thing.。
When Sandra and I were in United Amorites last year, we met a sheikh who was, I think。
he was one of the top three sheikhs, he was very, very, very wealthy.。
And he was the minister of tolerance.。
He was actually called the minister of tolerance.。
And because of the minister of tolerance in supposedly a Muslim country, it meant that。
Christianity as well as other religions were actually positively tolerated and embraced.。
We're not talking about that.。
We're talking here about tolerance of evil.。
And we read the church was permitting a false prophetess to influence the people and lead。
them into compromise.。
Now it's not likely that this woman was actually called Jezebel.。
Since such an infamous name would not be given to a child.。
It's like you calling your son Hitler, right?。
But the name is symbolic.。
Jezebel was the idolatrous queen who enticed Israel to add Baal worship to their religious。
ceremonies.。
We want to read about her 1 Kings 16-19.。
The seductive teaching of Jezebel was similar to the doctrine of Balaam.。
But Pastor Michelle told us that the Lord condemned in the church of Pergamon.。
Revelation 2-14.。
She taught believers to compromise with the Roman religion and the practices of their。
guilds so that Christians would not lose their jobs or their lives.。
Now it's interesting to contrast the churches of Ephesus and Thyatira.。
Remember Pastor James told us the Ephesus church, Ephesian church was weakening in its。
love and yet faithful to judge false teachers.。
While the people in Thyatira were growing in their love but too tolerant of false doctrine.。
Both extremes must be avoided in the church.。
The verse I love is Ephesians 4-15 when Paul says, "Speaking the truth in love."。
That is the biblical balance.。
Unloving orthodoxy and loving compromise are both hateful to God.。
But look at this.。
I have given her time to repent of her immorality but she is unwilling.。
So not only was the church at Thyatira tolerant of evil, but it was proud and unwilling to。
repent.。
The Lord gave the prophetess time to repent yet she refused.。
Now he was giving her followers opportunity to repent.。
His eyes of fire had searched out their thoughts and motives and he would make no mistake.。
In fact, the Lord threatened to use this assembly as a solemn example to all churches not to。
tolerate evil.。
He said, "Then all the churches will know that I am He who searches hearts and minds."。
The previous verse is actually quite frightening.。
So I will cast her on a bed of suffering and I will make those who commit adultery with。
her suffer intensely unless they repent of their ways.。
I will strike her children dead.。
Jezebel and her children, her followers would be sentenced to tribulation and death.。
Idolatry and compromise are in the Bible pictured as fornication and unfaithfulness to the marriage。
vows.。
Jezebel's bed of sin would become a bed of sickness.。
Now to kill with death means to kill with pestilence.。
God would judge the false prophetess and her followers once and for all.。
One of the things that we're learning week after week is yes, God is a God of love, but。
we should never take Him for granted.。
He is a God of judgment.。
We cannot just get on with living our lives, dabbling with sin.。
Remember Michelle told us being pulled this way by the world and this way by the way of。
God.。
Don't look at these verses and say, "That's not me."。
God says to us, "The church of the 21st century, don't be naive."。
Then we come to the assurance.。
Not everyone in the assembly was unfaithful to the Lord and He had a special word for。
them.。
"Now I say to the rest of you," in Thyatira, "to you who do not hold onto her teaching。
and have not learned Satan's so-called deep secrets, I will impose no other burden on。
you except to hold onto what you have until I come.。
To the one who is victorious and does my will to the end, I will give them authority over。
the nations.。
That one will rule with an iron scepter and will dash them to pieces like pottery, just。
as I have received authority from my Father.。
I will also give that one the morning star.。
Whoever has ears, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches."。
This group of people had separated themselves from the false doctrine and the compromising。
practices of Jezebel and her followers, which Christ denounces as the deaths of Satan.。
Interestingly here, the Lord has no special demands to make.。
He simply wanted them to hold fast in their resistance to evil.。
"I will not impose any burden on you," He said, "except to hold on to what you have。
until I come."。
Now "until I come" refers to Christ's return for His people, at which time He will reward。
them, He will reward us for our faithfulness.。
This is the first mention in the book of Revelation of the Lord's coming for the church.。
In contrast, the reference in Revelation 1-7 was to Christ's return on earth in judgment,。
to defeat His enemies and establish His kingdom.。
But here the believers in Thyatira are promised authority over the nations, which probably。
refers to the fact that God's people will live and reign with Christ.。
When God sets up His kingdom on earth, it will be a righteous kingdom with perfect justice。
and no virus.。
He will rule with a rod of iron.。
Rebellious men will be like clay pots, easily broken to pieces.。
And then Jesus said, "I will also give that one the morning star."。
We read later in the book of Revelation that Jesus Christ is the bright and morning star.。
Interesting this one, the promise in Revelation 2-28 suggests that God's people shall be so。
closely identified with Christ that He will belong to them.。
But perhaps there is also an allusion here to Satan, who remember wanted the kingdom。
for himself and who offered in Matthew 4, the world's kingdoms to Christ, if he would。
worship Him but once.。
In Isaiah 14, Satan is named Lucifer.。
You know what that means in Hebrew?。
Lucifer means brightness, bright star.。
The compromising people in Thyatira were following the deaths of Satan, which would lead to darkness。
and death.。
God's overcomers on the other hand would share the morning star.。
Can I be honest with you?。
As I look at the 21st century church, as I look at KFCI, I hear God say to us, "I want。
you to be overcomers, not compromisers.。
I want you to be overcomers, not compromisers."。
As I prayed this week, I sense God gave me the word superficiality.。
So much of today's church is superficial.。
Can we not be a superficial church?。
But what is God through these letters saying to us today, to today's church, as we arrive。
at halftime and review these first four messages to the church?。
We can see the dangers that still exist for the people of God.。
Like Ephesus, we can be zealous and orthodox, but at the same time, lose our devotion to。
Christ.。
Or like Thyatira, our love can be increasing, yet lacking in the kind of discernment that。
is necessary to keep the church pure.。
Like Pergamum and Thyatira, we may be so tolerant of evil that we grieve the Lord and invite。
His judgment.。
Let me ask you a question at the beginning.。
Would we have selected Smyrna that Pastor Johnny talked about?。
Would we have selected Smyrna as the most spiritual church of the four?。
Because on the surface, they definitely weren't.。
We probably wouldn't have selected Smyrna, but the Lord did.。
We need to remind ourselves not to judge God's people by wrong standards because only the。
Lord can see the heart.。
God's exhortation to these churches, except Smyrna, is this.。
Repent.。
Change your minds.。
It is not only lost sinners who need to repent, but disobedient Christians.。
If we do not repent and deal with sin in our lives and in our assemblies, the Lord may。
judge us and remove our lampstand.。
How tragic is it when a local church gradually abandons its faith and loses its witness for。
Christ.。
Hear, but have an ear.。
Let him hear what the Spirit says unto the churches.。
Come out of the worship band, please.。
I'm going to invite you all to stand.。
I believe this is a time for us to surrender.。
We're actually going to sing that song that we sing so often, "I Surrender."。
Here I am down on my knees again.。
I'm not inviting you necessarily to get physically on your knees, but spiritually.。
I want to challenge you.。
I want to challenge everybody who is listening online.。
The word tonight is surrender.。
If you're here tonight, if you're listening online and you're not following Jesus, that。
Jesus Christ is not your Lord and Saviour, I want to invite you right where you are.。
Right now to say in your heart, "Jesus, I've sinned.。
I want to come to your cross, repent of my sins.。
I want to follow you, Jesus."。
And if you're willing to do that, please tell someone.。
But for those of us who are Christians, we can't just tick the box that we've said the。
sinner's prayer.。
We can't just tick the box that we come to church, that we do this, that, and that.。
God is saying to us now, to the church in KSC, to the church in Hong Kong, to the church。
of 2020, will you surrender?。
Will you repent and turn from your ways?。
You have tolerated evil.。
Would you get on your knees and say, "Sorry."。
Because you know the Lord is more than ready to forgive.。
He's more ready to forgive than we are even to say, "Sorry."。
So during this song, either on your knees with your hands or in your heart, it doesn't。
matter.。
It's not religion.。
I invite you to say, "Jesus, you are the Son of God.。
I believe this.。
Jesus, I know that I have done, I have said, I have thought things which are not of you.。
Lord, I have tolerated things which I know are not of you.。
I have made friends with the world.。
I surrender.。
All I am is yours.。
Take me, Lord.。
Take me and use me.。
And Lord, would you take this church and use us for your glory in this time and in this。
city.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
[Music]。
