Amen.。
I have been told that I should use this, so I'm going to confess here, I am not like。
Pastor James where he just preaches without notes.。
I need notes.。
So I'm going to kind of use this so that we can stick with the rules instead of breaking。
it.。
So we're going to try to share God's word.。
I'm going to move around.。
Is that okay?。
Is that okay?。
I was asking them, do I need to wear a mask or not?。
Because the whole situation, but praise God, we could actually go to places now and not。
necessarily wear a mask.。
So I'm just really grateful.。
How many of you miss John and Sandra, Pastor John and Sandra?。
Amen.。
We miss him tremendously at our first pastors gathering, prayer gathering that we have every。
single month.。
And it's really interesting because I don't know what it is, but pastors and free food。
always brings many of them out.。
So we had a bunch of pastors, we were able to gather together and we just realized how。
big of a shoe it is to fill in when Pastor John and Sandra, they're not with us.。
So I pray that all of us will be in prayer for them.。
As you know that they're in a very difficult situation.。
So we're praying that they'll quickly come back to Hong Kong.。
Hong Kong is always better when we have Pastor John and Sandra joining us.。
So praise God for that.。
Amen.。
So we're going to be praying together.。
And one of the things that I do want to share is that I've been really encouraged.。
I was just watching some of the different announcements and different things that you're。
doing and what a great encouragement and also an opportunity to actually minister to many。
people who have yet to hear the gospel through these different avenues of people with mental。
health and struggling through different grief and different situations.。
So my encouragement to you is that take advantage of all the different opportunities that you。
just heard by Bonnie and just the different things that are happening in this church,。
especially the Easter retreat.。
What a great way to bond together and experience God together.。
I'm sharing this.。
Pastor John didn't tell me to say this, but I'm just sharing this because it is a blessing。
for all of us to be a part of all that he's doing.。
So I'm going to go ahead and ask us to turn to Ephesians if you have your Bibles.。
If not, it's going to be up here, so don't feel uncomfortable.。
I'm going to talk about just simply together.。
That's what I'm going to try to address.。
And I talked to Pastor John and he kind of gave me an overview and I watched his sermon,。
the first one that he actually gave through video.。
It was such a blessing because as you remember in that video, one of the things that he mentioned。
as I was listening, I was really excited for you as a church, the body of Christ, is that。
the vision was us, you, them.。
What a great concept.。
What God is doing in us and then you have then have a responsibility to do something。
about that and to be able to reach out to the city.。
That's why it was encouraging to hear that you're going to focus in on equipping the。
saints so that you can serve the community.。
I'm joining you in prayer, in spirit, in asking God to use this church to be able to be a。
blessing to Hong Kong.。
And so as you're turning to Ephesians chapter 4, we're going to just look at six verses。
today.。
And I want to start off with a question and the question is this, did you ever come to。
the realization that you were the actual cause of disunity?。
I want you to think about that for a moment because a lot of times we're not self-aware。
that we're actually the cause of disunity.。
In fact, can I challenge us to kind of think about our relationship with our families?。
The thought that we are actually the cause of disunity within our families.。
Think about maybe at work with some of your colleagues that you can actually be the one,。
whether you're gossiping or maybe you just don't like that person, but you're the cause。
of disunity.。
It might be among some of your friends group, the people that you hang out with, that every。
single time you're there, there are other people who don't want to be there.。
Or when that other person is there, you don't want to be there and you realize that you。
cause, you are one of the causes possibly of disunity.。
And the reason why I want to start off this way is to actually tell you my story.。
I really didn't have a heart for unity.。
I didn't think that it was very important.。
I knew it in scripture, but I just didn't see it practically lived out.。
So I want to share a story back in 1996.。
My wife and I, we actually graduated from the university.。
I went to seminary.。
I served as a youth pastor for about four and a half years.。
And then my wife and I, we went to University of Michigan to start our church, Harvest Mission。
Community Church back in 1996.。
And we were young.。
You know that one song, "Young, dumb, and broke"?。
That was us.。
We were so young.。
We thought the whole future was ahead of us.。
We thought we knew what we were doing.。
Well, at least I did.。
And this feeling of, we're going to conquer the world.。
So we came to the University of Michigan and we started the church.。
And one of the things I wanted to do was just kind of meet with different people who are。
already on the campus doing ministry, church leaders, as well as pastors.。
And I was just kind of thinking about this.。
And when I look back at that time, man, I was thinking to myself, if I met someone like。
myself back then, I would have probably hated this guy.。
I'm like, "Who is this guy?"。
And one group that I kind of butted heads with were some of the parachurches at the。
University of Michigan.。
And so pretty much I was trying to explain to them, "We're not a parachurch.。
We're a local church.。
And we're going to reach out to students and we're going to do all this stuff and we're。
going to change the world."。
And I remember they kind of gave me this look like, "Who are you?"。
And I just didn't care.。
I didn't care what they thought.。
We're going to go and do this.。
And guess what happened?。
Pretty much all the parachurches would list all the names of churches that you could attend。
to and they purposely decided to not put our names out because they're like, "Who are。
these guys?。
We don't want someone like him to be a part of this community."。
So in many ways, I said, "You know what?。
We don't need you.。
We're going to do our thing."。
And so this went on for several years until a morning prayer.。
We had a time just every Monday through Friday we had this morning prayer at 6.30 in the。
morning.。
And so I was in my own prayer and I was praying for the city.。
I was praying for God to send a revival in the midst of Ann Arbor, Michigan.。
And as I was praying, I was like, "God, why aren't you sending a revival?。
Why are the hardness of hearts?"。
I was just sharing all this stuff to God.。
I was pouring out my heart.。
And all of a sudden, I heard or it felt like a voice, an audible voice, but it was more。
of impression.。
I just felt like...。
I'm like, "What is the cause, Lord?"。
And I felt like God was saying, "You are the cause of the lack of revival."。
Of course, the first thing is, "Get behind me, Satan."。
You know, that surely is not from God.。
But in that moment when I felt that that was impressed upon my heart, I was thinking about。
this and I said, "Lord, if it's me, I'm causing the sense of disunity in this city, then I。
repent."。
And I spent some time that morning just repenting and God started bringing me all these different。
thoughts and experiences and my interactions with people in that city.。
And I realized that it was out of my pride and I did not come humbly to be able to say,。
"God is already doing something and we need to partner together."。
And so it was in that moment where I was feeling this conviction of the Holy Spirit and then。
I felt something else.。
And this part, it was really Satan, "Get behind me."。
Because I felt God was telling me, "From your mission's budget, I want you to bless some。
of these ministries with no strings attached.。
Give them cash, bless them.。
No strings attached, say, "Hey, we want you to build up your ministry so we can see the。
city reach with the gospel of Jesus Christ."。
Man, that was tough.。
I thought maybe I was halfway sleeping, I misheard, but I really felt that's what God。
was saying.。
So what I did was I went to our executive team and I told them what God was kind of。
placing on my heart and we had some funds from our missions fund that we wanted to use。
and we ended up giving some of that money to various ministries with no strings attached.。
And here's the exciting part.。
After that happened, I just felt like something broke.。
Whatever was bringing a sense of disunity, something broke.。
And after about four or five years, I'm just building some of those relationships that。
I completely cut off.。
After about four to five years, we had the largest student gathering in a big auditorium,。
about thousands of students to worship God all together in unity.。
And that was probably one of the most powerful moments where God spoke to me about the importance。
of unity, not only in the church, but in the one church in that city with many congregations.。
And it was in that moment God started to put that seed of not only that repentance that。
I needed of my pride, but also that seed of a vision that God can actually use not just。
that one church, your church, but he uses all the churches as we are united together.。
And that's when I just saw God doing some amazing things while we were serving there。
at the University of Michigan.。
I don't know what it is, but sometimes we don't realize the importance of unity and。
the power of unity until there is that moment of realization.。
I want to share a picture with you, some pictures.。
I don't know if some of you have seen this before.。
This is American football.。
I know they call football here something different.。
They call it soccer in the United States.。
But as some of you are familiar with American football, you probably have heard this on。
the news.。
It was January 2nd of this year, so the beginning of the year.。
The Buffalo Bills were playing against Cincinnati Bengals, and one of the players from the Buffalo。
Bills, he ended up having a cardiac arrest.。
And DeMar Hamlin, he ended up collapsing on the field.。
And that's when just people started gathering together in prayer.。
In that moment of crisis, we saw people gathering together to pray.。
And here's the picture that someone took, and they were in prayer together.。
But the picture that I love the most is this next picture.。
They were at the hospital.。
You can tell Cincinnati Bengals fans, along with Buffalo Bills fans, because all things。
be equal, they hated each other.。
But here they are coming together because of a crisis, because of a situation.。
That's why there is something about difficulties that bring people together.。
I think about Hong Kong and everything that has transpired in the last five some years,。
or even longer.。
And as you know, there are many people moving on, they're going to other places, and Lord。
bless them, this is the calling that God has for them in their lives.。
But many of us are here in Hong Kong, and this is part of our calling.。
So what is it that God is trying to do?。
So in the midst of so much change, in the midst of everything that has been happening,。
what is it that God is trying to do?。
And I'm wondering if one of the things that He's trying to do is that He's trying to bring。
the churches together in the midst of the situation that we're experiencing.。
He's trying to bring the church of Jesus Christ together.。
I love what D.L.。
Moody said.。
He said this, he says, "I have never yet known the Spirit of God to work where the Lord's。
people are divided."。
Isn't that true?。
When the people of God are divided, it's very difficult to see the Spirit of God move.。
That's not only true in your family, especially if the dad and the mom, they're not united.。
You can feel the tension.。
You've been there.。
Some of you are parents.。
Some of you are children of parents, and you've seen the disunity and how it breaks down the。
family.。
There's tension, there's anxiety.。
You'll see it not only that, but as I mentioned before, in the workplace.。
You'll see that in the church, and you'll definitely see it in a city where it's so。
easy to compare churches against other churches.。
It's so easy to say, "Wait a minute.。
What happened to all these people?。
Oh, they left and they went to another church."。
And we're like, "We hate that church.。
They're taking our members."。
Or those of you who came from another church, we love you.。
Welcome.。
Welcome.。
But once again, it is so easy to lose sight of what it is that God has to him because。
of the division and because of this disunity.。
So Kung Fu Church International 2023, as you really focus on just being equipped as the。
saints of God, I pray that you will serve the community so well.。
And as we link up together with all the churches in Hong Kong, that's one thing I really miss。
about Pastor John.。
He's always talking about the one church in Hong Kong with many congregations.。
I love that because that's been my heartbeat and that's what God has been reminding me。
time and time again.。
There's only one church.。
Come on, everyone said that.。
There's one church with many congregations.。
That's Hong Kong, one church with many different congregations.。
And so the one thing that I want us to remember as I get into this text is that we live out。
our calling with clarity as we fulfill our calling to unity.。
That we live out our calling with clarity as we fulfill our calling to unity.。
I'm going to highlight two things in these six verses that talks about living out our。
calling with clarity as we fulfill our calling to unity.。
The first thing is this, that we must have ownership of our calling.。
That we must have ownership of our calling.。
It's important to put this passage in context.。
In chapter one, chapter two, and chapter three of the book of Ephesians, Apostle Paul is。
presenting more of his theological values.。
Some of you have read the book of Ephesians, you realize a lot of it is talking about who。
we are in Christ, what he has done, and how he has brought people, the Gentiles and the。
Jews together.。
And everything he mentions in the first three chapters are all theological foundations that。
he's building up until we come to chapter four.。
Now he's talking about in light of chapter one, two, and three, what do we do now with。
all this information?。
And that's where we dive in to chapter four.。
And all the way to chapter six, so chapter four, chapter five, chapter six, it's simply。
practical things lived out in light of what he talked about in chapter one through three.。
And so that's why we want to talk about this ownership of our calling.。
There are two things that we notice when it comes to this ownership of our calling.。
The first is you've got to remember the gospel.。
If you are going to have ownership of the calling that God has given to you, then you。
have to remember the gospel.。
Let's go ahead and read verse one, it should be up here.。
The verse one, it says this, "I therefore a prisoner for the Lord urge you to walk in。
a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called."。
So here's Apostle Paul, right away we notice two words up there.。
In verse one, that's very important, I want to highlight those two words for us.。
The first word is therefore.。
What it's doing is that it's connecting that everything that Paul established, once again,。
in chapters one through three, now he's putting it into practice in our daily lives.。
So he says, "This, this, and this, therefore," now he's bringing it home to speak to us.。
What he's emphasizing is what you believe determines how you will live.。
I want you to think about that for a moment.。
What you believe will determine how you live.。
So if you believe success will make you happy, guess what you're going to do?。
How you live your life.。
If you think to yourself, and what you believe is that, "Oh, if I have a relationship, then。
that's going to make everything, all my problems go away," then that's what you're going to。
act upon.。
What you believe is so important and determines what you do.。
That's why Paul is clearly establishing that everything that I have said to you in the。
last three chapters, it is the foundation now of how I'm going to share with you how。
you ought to live your life.。
That's why the second word that's very important is the word urge.。
It can be translated as implore or to appeal.。
So I implore you, I appeal to you.。
If you want to look at a different translation, I beg you.。
So he's saying, because of everything that Christ has done, therefore, I am begging you,。
I am imploring you, I am appealing to you.。
And what is he appealing?。
What is he imploring us to do?。
Now before I mention it, this is what I want to speak to us because we live in Asia.。
I know not everyone is Asian by birth, but you live in Asia, so let me just say this.。
When you are from Asia, and this is some of you, this is all you know, the gospel that。
many of you know is based on works.。
How do I know this?。
Think about it this way.。
When bad things start happening to you, then what is the first thing that you do?。
Oh, I got to do something.。
Oh, I should read my Bible.。
I don't read my Bible.。
I should pray.。
Or let's put it this way.。
It's going to be that first blind date with that somebody.。
And then you're like, oh Lord, let it be.。
Let it be.。
So what do you do?。
I got to read the Bible so that God will bless me.。
See, that's a works mindset, which says that if I do something, that God will do this.。
And that is a totally anti-gospel.。
The gospel simply says God has already, he has already done something for us.。
Amen?。
He has done something in our lives.。
So now what we are doing, it is out of a motivation because of the gospel.。
That's a gospel-oriented mindset that simply says we do things because God first loved。
us.。
And that's what the urging is based on.。
Therefore, I urge you because of what Christ has done.。
This is very similar to Romans chapter 12, verse 1.。
And I want you to read the yellow sections with me.。
Will you do that?。
It says this, "Therefore, I urge you, brothers," what?。
"In view of God's mercy to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to。
God."。
This is your spiritual act of worship.。
So what he says is this, in view of God's mercy, you've already received mercy.。
Therefore, he's urging us to do what?。
To offer yourself.。
That's a gospel-oriented way to live your life.。
We do things because God has already done something for us.。
And we're motivated because of who Jesus Christ is and what he has done.。
Paul exhorts the believers to walk in a manner worthy of the calling.。
That word "to walk," you'll see this quite often in Paul's letters.。
It is in reference to this concept of "to live."。
So when you're walking, you're living.。
That's what Paul is simply saying.。
To walk means to live.。
And that's why he is reminding us to walk or to live in a way that is, what?。
In a manner worthy of the gospel.。
Some of us might not understand this, but the word "worthy," in this context, it means。
equal weight.。
So I want you to think about that for a moment.。
Paul says to walk or to live in equal weight.。
What is he trying to say?。
Well, this idea of calling comes from our, what Christ has done, which allows us to be。
a child of God, and then through salvation, which was purchased by Christ, nothing we。
have done, we can't earn it.。
So because he has purchased this salvation for us, this importance of the unity in the。
body that we're part of this family, that is what he's emphasizing.。
Now Apostle Paul is telling the believers to live in such a way of that one's calling,。
your calling.。
It should be equal weight or in balance.。
What does that mean?。
That means that you and I, we both have individual responsibility as well as in the context of。
the church and the world.。
Let me put it this way.。
Maybe this will help us understand.。
Please do not raise your hand.。
It's called a rhetorical question.。
I want you to think about it.。
How many of you have met a hypocrite in your life, in the church or a person who calls。
a Christian?。
You're like, "I haven't met him."。
It might be you, all right?。
So I would say all of us know of people who are like hypocrites, and they are saying one。
thing, but they're not living it out.。
So they're not in balance.。
They're not walking or living according to what is being said, and that's the part that。
turns people off.。
So here's Paul, and he says to live a life that is worthy of the calling, that's equal。
weight so that what Christ has done for us will be reflected in how you live your life.。
Now this is a powerful thought because as you remember this gospel, guess what happens?。
What will help you have ownership of this calling is now you got to respond to the gospel.。
That's the second thing.。
You got to respond to that.。
Not only do you remember the gospel, but now you respond to the gospel.。
Let's read verse two and three.。
This is what the Word of God says.。
"With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to。
maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace."。
It is clear that as we remember the gospel, this will enable us to be more responsible。
in living for Christ.。
We have to know how this ought to be lived out.。
That's why in verse two and three, Paul gives some of these characteristic traits of how。
we to live our lives in response to the gospel.。
The words and phrases such as humility, gentleness, patience, bearing with one another in love,。
and maintaining all unity, all these things point to this one concept of reconciliation.。
You cannot have reconciliation when there's no humility.。
Think about some of your relationship with people that you don't get along with.。
There's either you or that person, there's no level of humility, that's why it's hard。
to reconcile.。
You can only have reconciliation when there's humility.。
Think about patience.。
You cannot have reconciliation when there's no patience, which is forbearing.。
You are willing to go through it and endure some of the people's messiness.。
It's difficult.。
Let's be honest here.。
When there are those people who are very toxic or maybe very draining on you, they're like。
the extra grace required people, you're like, "Oh my God."。
And you see them like, "Okay, I got to go to the bathroom."。
Those types of people.。
And it's difficult and it's hard.。
But when you are patient because you think about, "Man, God has been patient with me.。
Man, I screwed up, I messed up, I hurt somebody, but that person forgave me."。
And you think about the gospel, you remember the gospel, then your natural response is,。
"I need to respond to it in the same way."。
Just think about the opposites of these things, pride, harshness, impatience, frustration.。
They don't promote unity or reconciliation.。
This is what happens when we have ownership of our calling as well as unity within the。
body of Christ.。
That's why in verse three, as we read, the word "maintain" is translated as "to keep,。
to stay within, or to guard."。
So listen to me.。
This is really important.。
We got to get this in order to understand unity and what Paul is saying.。
When Paul says, "Maintain the unity," what he is trying to clearly state is that we already。
have it because of Jesus.。
The reason why we are united is because of Jesus Christ.。
That's why we have to watch over it.。
That's why we have to continue to maintain it.。
That's why we have to sustain it.。
It's not like we're not unified and we need unity.。
No, we have unity.。
Why?。
Because Jesus Christ died on the cross for our sins, and therefore he has made two into。
one, Gentiles and Jews.。
And he's saying, "Jesus provided and you have this unity because of Jesus, so now you and。
I, we are responsible, and the ownership of this is to maintain it."。
We have to keep the unity.。
We're not trying to discover it.。
We're not trying to form it.。
We're not trying to create it.。
We already have it, but we have to now maintain it.。
I love what Johnny Erickson Tata in her book, A Step Further, writes.。
She writes this, "Believers are never told to become one.。
We already are one and are expected to act like it."。
We're one because of Jesus.。
If you know Jesus, and as I know Jesus, we are one.。
If you have confessed your sins as Jesus Christ, as your Lord and Savior, and someone else。
has done the same, you are one.。
One of the things that I love is when I travel around to different places.。
I mean, there are times when I'm in different countries where they're singing a song in。
a different language, and I don't even know what they're saying.。
Well, hallelujah, I know because it's universal.。
So that's when I sing really loud, you know, because like, "Hallelujah."。
You know, we sing really loud.。
That part of it, it's a universal thing.。
You've been there, you know.。
But it's amazing because even though I don't know them, even though we just met maybe an。
hour ago, there's a kindred spirit.。
Why?。
Because of Jesus Christ.。
So we're already one.。
Now we have to maintain it, sustain it.。
So when I think about all the churches in Hong Kong, we have unity because of whom?。
Jesus Christ.。
So that's why we have to keep on working at maintaining it.。
That's why the pastors gather together once a month to pray, to fellowship.。
Why?。
Because we need it.。
That's why I want to know what's going on in your church.。
Even though your church might be bigger than mine, your church is better in this area than。
our church, but we love you.。
You're a very important part to this community, to Hong Kong, to reach every single person,。
7.4 million people.。
We need you.。
We need you to survive.。
Even in the midst of COVID, when so many churches are closing down, we need you to be a part。
of this community because of what Jesus Christ has done.。
That's that responsibility to say, "We are one and we need to maintain it."。
That's why in Galatians chapter 5, verse 16, 22 to 23, and also 25, that idea of this walking。
and being in step, the only way we're going to get it is through the Spirit of God.。
That is the thing that maintains the unity is the Spirit of God.。
Paul says what?。
And I want you to read the yellow sections with me.。
Can you just say it with me?。
It says this, "But I say, walk by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the。
flesh, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness,。
faithfulness, gentleness, self-control.。
Against such things there is no law.。
If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit."。
So walking and living in the Spirit of God.。
How about us this late afternoon, early evening?。
Do you remember the gospel and what God has done in your life?。
How do you respond on a daily basis because of the gospel?。
Do you have ownership of your calling that Christ has purchased for us on the cross?。
Not only as a follower of Jesus Christ, but somebody who you're supposed to maintain this。
unity of the Spirit.。
If you don't have ownership of it, then we're not going to be able to maintain this unity.。
And I want to speak to all of you right here because this is your church.。
This is your church family.。
But it's just a microcosm of the bigger church family here in Hong Kong.。
If you cannot maintain the unity in this group, even though the age is different, even though。
ethnicity might be different, language sometimes, if you're more comfortable with one language。
over another, if there is no unity here, we cannot unify with or maintain the unity with。
other churches here in Hong Kong.。
That's why we've got to pray in the Spirit and ask Him to help us.。
Let me close with the second point.。
We must not only have ownership of our calling, but we see here that we must have oneness。
within our calling.。
Oneness within our calling.。
I really hate to do this, but I'm going to show you this picture.。
Can we look at this picture?。
I really hate to do this because I'm a Chelsea fan.。
But because I love Pastor John so much, I decided to show this picture.。
And when I saw this picture, I said to myself, "This is great."。
Not only because we have a Korean, because I'm Korean-American, so praise the Lord.。
Yeah.。
But something about the Spurs, as you look at them, and many other sports teams often,。
is that there's a sense of diversity and different races, but they're united together because。
there's a common goal to win a championship.。
The Premier League, EPL.。
And so when I look at this picture, I realize we have people from Caucasian or white descent,。
we have a Korean there, we have someone from an African descent or background, but they're。
together because of that common goal.。
And then I was thinking, well, sports actually brings not only the players, but if you look。
at the next picture, just even the fans.。
I mean, you have people from maybe the Arab background, you have people from the white。
descent, and you have some people from Africa.。
I mean, where are the Koreans?。
I don't know.。
But anyway, you just see that diversity even in the sports.。
And I want to share this because this is what Apostle Paul is saying as we close out in。
these next couple of verses, is this idea of this oneness.。
What he is emphasizing is we have this within our calling.。
So once you have this ownership, and then you begin to understand this oneness that。
has to come, that's part of a calling, then maintaining unity can be done.。
So let's read verse four through six.。
This is what the Word of God says.。
"There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to the one whole that belongs。
to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all。
and through all and in all."。
What a way to close out this section in verse six, and also verse four and five.。
So what is the significance of this?。
Paul mentions seven, seven key foundational components that establish and provide the。
spirit of unity as followers of Jesus Christ.。
I want you to notice the word "one."。
Everyone say "one."。
You will notice that word repeated over and over again to describe each of these components.。
It shows the centrality of the call to unity.。
So one body, this is the universal church.。
It's not just one church like here, but it's one body.。
It's the universal church around the whole world.。
And how many of you heard from Pastor John all the time, like, "There's only one church。
in Hong Kong."。
And I believe that, and I resonate with that, because there's not all these churches, but。
there's only one church.。
The second thing is one spirit.。
It's in reference to the Holy Spirit that dwells in us.。
It doesn't dwell in those who do not know Jesus Christ, but it dwells in us as believers。
and in the church.。
That's why there's one spirit.。
It talks about one hope.。
What is it referencing to?。
It's referencing to all the believers that the way we regard our future is in Christ。
and is with God.。
So it's this idea of there's a hope that we have that is so different from anyone else。
in this world, and it's one hope because it is found in Jesus.。
The fourth thing is one Lord.。
It's a reference to Christ, who is the shepherd of the whole church.。
So it's that one Lord.。
The one faith is in reference to both.。
If you look at some of the commentaries, they will say it's both the subjective faith as。
well as the objective faith, that it is our faith in Christ, but also this faith that。
we have as we live our lives.。
One faith.。
One baptism.。
This can be referenced to water baptism or the believers' identification to Christ's。
death and his resurrection, but it is one baptism that we all believe in, that we have。
died to ourselves, and now we resurrect from the dead.。
And then lastly, one God.。
This is a reference to God being the Father because of the relationship with Him and through。
Jesus Christ.。
That's why not only are we related in that way, not by blood, but we're connected because。
we have one Father.。
Now, we conclude that through these important foundational elements, we are united together。
because God the Father, as we put our faith in Jesus Christ and our identification with。
this baptism.。
I want you to notice verse 6.。
I don't know if you have seen this.。
We notice in that last verse, I love verse 6, we notice the word "all."。
Everyone say "all."。
It is repeated four times.。
From this passage, verse 6, can we go back to verse 6?。
I just want to read this again.。
Okay, we're going to have to go through all this.。
Sorry.。
It says, "One God and Father," and it says, "of all, who is over all, and through all,。
and in all."。
So from this usage of this last verse, we notice several things.。
I'm going to close with this.。
God is Father to all His followers.。
That means that we see God is this Father of those who put their trust in Him.。
We are His children.。
That's why it says, "Father of all."。
God is sovereign over all because God is supreme and in control of all things.。
God works through all His followers because that's why it says it's through Him and all。
is through Him is because He's operating in the life of the believer and He's using His。
spirit.。
And lastly, God dwells in all His followers.。
God's presence lives within us.。
Paul used similar language when he described the preeminence of Christ to the people of。
Colossae.。
In Colossae chapter 1, verse 16, I want you to read the yellow section with me.。
Listen to what it says.。
"For by Him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether。
thrones or dominions or rulers or all authority, all things were created through Him and for。
Him."。
It's the preeminence of Christ.。
And the beautiful thing about us, because of Jesus Christ, we can maintain this unity。
and become one.。
It doesn't mean we all look alike, we all do the same thing, but there is unity in the。
midst of diversity.。
There is this oneness because of Christ.。
How about us this evening?。
Do you know that we have oneness because of what Christ has done for us?。
Are there people in your life who are believers that you're not living in unity with?。
Maybe someone has hurt you, maybe some people have left or you've come from another church。
because you've been hurt.。
Is there this lack of unity with other believers?。
Are there people that you see in other churches, instead of lifting them up, it's easy to criticize。
them, "Oh, they don't have this kind of doctrine," or "They don't do this," rather than saying,。
"God, He is our Father and we are united.。
Let's maintain the spirit of unity."。
That's why this is simply the gospel.。
The gospel says that God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, they were in one,。
they were together.。
He created Adam and Eve.。
And in that oneness that they had, sin entered in.。
And it brought enmity with God and themselves and even amongst one another.。
That's where shame was introduced, as they had to cover themselves because they realized。
that they were naked.。
And if you look all throughout history and throughout the Bible, you realize that they。
were sinning against this Holy God.。
But this is the beautiful story of the gospel, that Jesus Christ, the Son, was sent into。
this world.。
God is amazing because God the Father, He longed for us, so He sent prophets.。
He sends kings and different people so that the Israelite people will know that they have。
a calling to be a blessing to the nations, so that all the nations can be blessed.。
But they failed in their mission, and guess what happened?。
That's why Jesus had to come.。
And He lived a perfect life that you and I could not live.。
And when He lived this perfect life, He became a perfect sacrifice, and He died on the cross.。
That should have been our cross, that should have been our death, because we should be。
punished for our sins.。
But Jesus took our place.。
This is the reason why when He died and rose again from the dead, the very thing that Satan。
had as his last weapon, which was death, Jesus Christ conquered that.。
So that means now, when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, you will be part。
of this incredible spiritual family, that you will be one with not only God, because。
the walls of enmity has been broken down, but you will be one with other brothers and。
sisters in Christ.。
If you place your faith in Jesus.。
And I pray that one of these days, if some of you are still seeking, that you will make。
that commitment.。
If you are a believer, I pray that you will maintain this unity, so that people will know。
that we are His disciples, if we love one another.。
So once again, the one thing is, we live out our calling with clarity, as we fulfill our。
calling to unity.。
Before we leave here, one of the things that I try to do in our church is, let's not just。
sit there and say, "Oh, that was okay, that's good information," because information will。
not change us.。
It is the Spirit of God, as we apply these things and obey, where we will experience。
transformation.。
So can I just give some practical next steps?。
You just pray through, let the Holy Spirit speak to you.。
You could do one, you could do two, or however the Lord speaks to you.。
In light of this message, as we talked about how we live out our calling with clarity,。
as we fulfill our calling to unity, I'm just going to use the word "one," O-N-E.。
The first thing is this, own your part in unity with humility and prayer.。
Own it.。
That means pray for this church, pray for one another.。
Be humble, that that person, you're not better than them, you're not more righteous than。
them.。
But you've got to love them because Christ first loved you.。
So own that.。
You own the unity when you are humble and you pray.。
My hope is this church will be a praying church.。
Let's pray and bring our hearts together, especially the retreat and so many other things。
that God is providing for you, that you will pray and have this, maintain this unity.。
The second thing, not only to own our part in unity with humility and prayer, but the。
second thing is network together to serve God.。
There are so many opportunities in this church that God is providing for you through the。
pastors and the staff where you can get involved.。
And as you work together, you'll see great things.。
I'm excited for what God's going to do this year for every single one of you.。
Because as you are being equipped by those that God has called to equip you, you will。
be able to then go and serve the community.。
I'm just so excited as we think about the One Campaign, as we think about so many other。
things.。
One of the things we're praying about is how do we serve the city?。
And so one of the things we're going to try to do is we're going to just find a day and。
you know, it's so easy to say, well, you guys already broke that.。
I was going to say, Sunday's the day we worship.。
No, Saturday too.。
And so here we are on Sunday, we come and we worship, we sing and do all this stuff.。
But I said, what if our worship this Sunday, one Sunday, is just to serve the community?。
So go to some places and pick up garbage.。
Go to some of these places where there are people who are marginalized.。
Serving them is our worship to God.。
What would it be like?。
This is just my dream.。
What would it be like if all the churches, all the congregation in Hong Kong, united。
together as one church, and we declare the greatness of God, because God first loved。
us and that's why God loves you and we love you and we want to serve you.。
Wow, that would be powerful.。
If all the churches can come together as one church and we serve this great city.。
That's my dream.。
If it ever happens, then I probably, I'm about to die.。
Okay.。
So I'm ready to go.。
If that could happen, that would be awesome.。
We serve the city all together with all the churches and we bless the community.。
I'm praying for that.。
Network together to serve God.。
Let's exalt Jesus's name together.。
Let's exalt it.。
It's all about him.。
Let's not make it about us, not make it about one church, but let's make it all about Jesus.。
Exalt his name together.。
I want to close with this minute and a half video, a really short video.。
I don't know how many of you know Jacob Collier.。
He's a musician, an artist, and one of his concerts in Sydney, he invited Natalie Imbruglia.。
I don't know if you know her, but she sang this famous song, "Torn."。
It's oldie, so some of you are like, "Oh, I don't know."。
Some of you guys were too oldie.。
You don't listen to any songs out there.。
Anyway, but she sang the song "Torn."。
And so I want to just kind of prep you before you watch this video.。
The reason why this moment in history was so important and pretty significant was that。
the audience became a spontaneous choir.。
So there's probably some people who are very talented musically in the audience, and there。
were some who are not very good.。
Every time they open their mouth, we're like, "Where is that coming from?"。
There's those kind of situation, but praise God.。
God is tone deaf, so he doesn't...。
Just sing from your heart, sing from your heart, like you're in the shower, so praise。
the Lord.。
But this concert, the audience became the choir, and then Jacob was the conductor leading。
the choir, and Natalie was just singing her song.。
And this is what I want you to notice as we close out with this video.。
The first thing I want you to notice, it was spontaneous.。
They were guided, but it was done out of just a spontaneity as they were singing.。
Second thing I want you to notice is everyone was involved and did their part.。
Every person had a part in the song as they were singing different parts.。
The third thing is everyone's eyes were fixed on Jacob, who was the conductor.。
Just watch, when you watch this video, look at people's eyes.。
They're all fixed.。
Their eyes are fixed on the conductor.。
The fourth thing is that the audience, they were directed and led by the conductor.。
Not only were they fixing their eyes, but they were listening to what this conductor。
was doing.。
And lastly, watch the end when they celebrated, after they sang this song, this incredible。
and beautiful music that they made.。
So let's watch this together.。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
[music]。
Can I just ask us to stand?。
Can we stand together?。
You've been sitting there for a little bit there.。
Wasn't that awesome?。
Amen.。
Who was the conductor for us?。
That's the Holy Spirit.。
And as we fix our eyes on Jesus, and we all have a part to play, we're going to make some。
awesome music, a music that the world will hear and be drawn to.。
They will know who Jesus is and that we are his disciples when we love one another in。
unity.。
May there never be Harvest Mission Community Church or Kung Fu Church International, even。
though names are important because you've got to call your children something, right?。
Hey, you.。
But I pray that it will be the Church of Jesus because it's all about him.。
And I'm telling you right now, if the world can actually see it, all of us unified because。
we are one because of Jesus, they will be like, "How in the world?。
You guys are all so different, but you guys are one."。
That's when they're going to understand how much Jesus loves them.。
I pray that we will not only pray for it, but we will fight for it to maintain the unity.。
And I'm looking forward in the future to networking together to win this city for Jesus Christ.。
Can I just pray for us?。
And then I'm going to hand it over, and I think the worship team will come and we'll。
sing a song, and then, sorry, we went a little bit long.。
We'll just dismiss you afterwards.。
So let me just pray for us.。
I'm going to ask us to do this.。
And if you feel uncomfortable, please, you don't have to do it.。
But if you're open to it, will you just grab onto someone's hand next to you as a sign of unity?。
If some of you are still afraid of the virus, you could lock elbows.。
You could lock elbows together.。
Come on, let's join the middle together.。
Can we just do that?。
Let's just come together in one, unified.。
Yeah, let's join together.。
Brothers and sisters, join the middle.。
Come on, slide over and just unite here.。
Just holding hands doesn't unite us, you know that.。
But it's just a symbol of our hearts that we're united with this brother or this sister standing next to me.。
And I stand with you as a pastor from another church, but yet we're serving Jesus together.。
And whether you speak Cantonese or all the Chinese churches or all the international churches that speak English and all the other languages that are spoken on a given Sunday as they have their service,。
we are one church, one body, one faith, one Lord, one hope, one Father, one God, Father of all, through all, so that He will be exalted and glorified.。
Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the unity that we have in Jesus Christ.。
And Lord, it's not something we create.。
You've already given it to us.。
And God, you're calling us to maintain it.。
Maintain it through diligence and prayer to be united together.。
So, God, I do pray that there will be the sense of clarity in our calling of who we are so that we could be together, united in this unity.。
And Lord, I pray that there will be an ownership, that each one of us will do our part.。
We won't just hand it off to somebody else, but we will have the ownership to be united together through humility and prayer.。
We also pray that we'll understand more of this oneness that comes because of what you have done, Jesus.。
And Lord, we're praying for unity, that we will maintain it here in Hong Kong.。
In the midst of all the division, in the midst of all the bickering and divisions in the congregation and even within the bigger body of Christ.。
Bring our hearts together for such a time as this.。
This Kairos moment.。
Lord, we want to see this city transform for your glory.。
So, come and do your work.。
We trust you.。
We love you.。
You are good and worthy of our praise.。
And it's in Jesus' mighty name we pray.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
Amen.。
