(silence)。
I have the privilege of sharing the Word of God。
with you today, feeling a little bit insecure。
because the speaker from last week ended with a rap。
and I am not gonna be able to do that。
and she has some self-designed slides。
and mine are gonna be just black on white,。
so feeling very insecure right now,。
but praying that actually as we go through this chapter。
of 2 Timothy 3, that the Lord will be able。
to open up to you something.。
I mean, that was a tough chapter to read, wasn't it?。
If you have a look at what Paul was saying to Timothy,。
it wasn't good.。
That first verse really hits you, but understand this.。
Understand this, in the last days。
there will be times of difficulty.。
And we just really appreciate the heart。
behind what Paul is saying here.。
So as Johnny told us a couple weeks back,。
2 Timothy 3 was Paul's last letter.。
He's writing it in prison.。
He knows that this time he won't get out.。
This will be the last time.。
And so can you just imagine just for a second,。
as he's writing this in this prison cell,。
knowing that he won't be going out,。
this will be the last thing that he writes to Timothy.。
And this is the most important thing。
he wants Timothy to remember.。
Think about the book of John, chapter 14 to 17.。
Chapter 13 is the Last Supper,。
and then we head into the last few chapters。
where Jesus heads into this monologue.。
He starts John 14 saying,。
"I'm the way, the truth, and the life."。
And then he ends up with John 17 with his last prayer.。
It's kind of like his last bit saying,。
"If you forget everything else,。
"if you forget everything I've taught you。
"these last three years, remember this."。
And so Paul writes with that same heart.。
He's telling Timothy, "I'm gonna be gone soon.。
"I know that I won't get out this time.。
"And I know that you're gonna be on your own from here.。
"And so therefore I want you to remember this."。
And so understand this.。
Don't just know it, but understand it deep in your heart。
that the last days are coming。
and they are going to be hard.。
The last days represents this period。
from the moment Jesus leaves and heads to heaven。
and basically all this time now until he returns.。
The apostle Peter talks about this in Acts 2。
where he's prophesying, quoting Joel.。
And he's saying, "In the last days,。
"young men will dream dreams."。
And so we are in the last days right now。
and Paul is telling Timothy and we are being told。
that in these last days, times will be hard.。
Now we don't really need reminding of that.。
We just need to switch on the news.。
We just need to go to Fox News, SCMP, the BBC,。
and we will see that the times are not the easiest, right?。
But here's the thing.。
Every time we look at something that isn't good news,。
don't we still have that same sense of shock,。
that same sense of, "Oh, wow, bad things are happening.。
"They shouldn't be, they shouldn't be."。
Or every time something bad happens to us,。
we sometimes still have this, right?。
We have this anger and frustration,。
like, "Oh, this shouldn't be happening to us.。
"We're Christians.。
"Actually, God promised that he'll bless us。
"and my life will be smooth from now.。
"Why is my life not smooth?。
"Did I do something wrong?"。
But you see, that is against what the Bible teaches.。
Scripture says, "In the last days,。
"the times will be difficult."。
Peter talks about this in 1 Peter 4, saying,。
"Don't be surprised when you face fiery trials."。
Jesus says in John 16, "In this world, you will have," what?。
"Trouble, but take heart, I have overcome the world."。
So for us as believers, we've got to get into that mindset.。
Every time something goes wrong,。
rather than doubting God and saying,。
"Oh, God, why is there suffering if there is a God?。
"Why isn't my God making my life as smooth as possible?"。
Recognise that that's never what he promised.。
But of course, also recognise that any of the tough times。
that we're going through right now as Christians。
don't quite compare to what they were going through.。
It doesn't quite compare to the persecution。
that was happening to the early church.。
We gathered here today quite freely.。
We drove here or caught the MTR or caught the bus here,。
walked into Admiralty,。
strolled up into Firey's Finance Centre,。
and came in feeling relatively at peace。
that we're allowed to gather here,。
that we are going to be safe。
in opening the Word of God together,。
that we're going to be okay in singing,。
we're going to be okay in praying.。
So we may have troubles,。
and who knows what the future holds,。
but this is not what they were going through.。
And you see, Paul is making it very obvious to Timothy,。
he's saying, "Hey, understand this.。
"I'm not going to be around, so I need you to remember this.。
"It's going to be hard.。
"It's going to be hard."。
And in this chapter, he really,。
we can break it down into three different parts,。
and he talks about three things.。
He talks about the problem in the future.。
He's saying, "I'm not going to be there。
"to walk with you, Timothy, so I want to warn you。
"and prepare you for the problem that is in the future.。
"Then I want to tell you that the answer to that problem。
"is in the past.。
"And finally, I want to tell you。
"that I want to charge you for the present.。
"I want to remind you what you should be doing now."。
So the problem in the future, the answer is in the past,。
and the charge for the present。
is what we're going to be going through.。
And the first one is this.。
What is the problem in the future?。
The problem, of course, is godlessness.。
The title of this passage is "Godlessness in the Last Days."。
And Alex just read out, and it was a mouthful,。
18 characteristics of what the world was going to be like.。
Essentially, he was describing what the world is right now.。
Lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive,。
disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless.。
And he goes through this whole list.。
He's saying, "The times are going to be difficult.。
"Why?。
"Because all these things are going to be present.。
"There is going to be so much godlessness in the last days,。
"and we're not going to be able to go through。
"each and every one today."。
But I want to just highlight something.。
This passage that talks about this。
really can be split into two.。
What is godlessness, or rather, what is godlessness,。
and how is it described by Paul in this short passage?。
And I can split it into two parts very generally.。
And one is that he talks about this misdirected love,。
this misdirected love that appears。
when there is a godless culture.。
And two, this misleading look that you can have.。
So I want to go through each of these.。
And so the first one is this idea of misdirected love.。
If you look at this whole passage of all these things,。
in its literary form, it's actually bookended by loves.。
So it's the lover of self, it's the lover of money,。
and at the very end of the list,。
it's lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God.。
So this whole list really comes down。
to this concept of misdirected love.。
What do I mean by that?。
God tells us to love Him。
with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength.。
He said, "Don't love anything else to that same level."。
Why?。
Because if you love anything else, it has the potential,。
it has the power to corrupt you.。
It has the power to be destructive,。
even if it is a good thing.。
Of course, it starts off with the first one saying,。
lover of self, lover of money.。
Again, we've talked about this before,。
this issue in this society, this godless society。
that loves money, sex, and power.。
And He's saying, if you love any of those things,。
they have the power to corrupt you,。
they have the power to destroy you.。
You see, we are all built to love.。
We can't help it.。
Even those who aren't very romantic,。
we are built to love, we are built to worship something.。
The only question here is, what are you loving?。
What are you worshipping?。
You see, when it is the wrong thing,。
when it is a misdirected kind of love,。
then it becomes, then you're leading on a path。
towards godlessness.。
Why?。
If we just summarise those misdirected loves。
into those three general things, money, sex, and power,。
what do they all really represent?。
What are you actually loving。
when you love those three things?。
What causes you to be proud, to be unholy,。
to be disobedient to your parents?。
Our love of money, sex, and power, why is it problematic?。
Because all of those loves。
really reflect this desire to be in control.。
You love money because you wanna be in control。
of your own life.。
You wanna be able to do whatever you want to do.。
You wanna have control over the people。
in whatever way you want to.。
That's the love of power as well.。
The love of sex, this love of pleasure。
that's talked about again, it's about you。
wanting to assume and maintain and hold onto control.。
Our love for control is this misdirected love。
where God's saying, "No."。
Well, one, you recognise that you will never truly be。
in control, but he says, "Look at me, love me.。
"I'm the only one that won't corrupt you.。
"I am the only one who will complete you."。
So don't have this misdirected kind of love。
because when you love control,。
you're basically saying, "I want to be God."。
So then there's no surprise, the result is godlessness.。
Do we get that?。
When you love control and love all these things,。
you're basically saying that, "I want to be God."。
And so therefore, it's no surprise when our lives。
or when our society is filled with godlessness.。
So that's the first one, misdirected love.。
And the second one is this, and it carries on, verse five,。
"Having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power."。
Having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power.。
He's looking at people in the church and he's going,。
"Some people here look holy.。
"Some people here look righteous.。
"Some people here look like leaders of the church,。
"but they are denying its power.。
"They are not really living by the power of God.。
"They are not really living by the power of the Holy Spirit,。
"even though they look like they're ticking all the boxes."。
Now this one hurts because I wonder how many of us here。
are committed to maintaining an appearance of godliness,。
myself included.。
But how many of us here are actually still denying its power?。
How many of us here are continually learning?。
I think it was verse seven,。
"Always learning, but never able to arrive at the truth."。
He's saying there's a group of people in the church。
right then and right now who are so committed to learning。
and filling their heads with knowledge。
that it never drops into their hearts。
and then never impacts the way they live.。
So they're denying the power of truth.。
They never arrive at that knowledge of truth.。
They're always just learning。
and filling, filling their heads up.。
And it's misleading.。
It's a misleading look.。
It's hypocrisy.。
When people are committed to only cleaning the cup。
on the outside, but the inside is completely dirty.。
That's what Jesus talked about, right?。
And this is what Paul's saying.。
He's saying there are this group of people。
that are doing that,。
that not only have they misdirected their love,。
they are also misleading other people.。
And he talks about a group of people。
and he's referring to a group of people。
who are going to influence, going into people's homes,。
especially women's homes and misleading them。
and teaching them and leading them astray.。
You've got to recognise at that point。
in culture and time, women weren't allowed to learn.。
So Christianity was a huge, radical, revolutionary thing。
where women were finally able to learn。
and they were keen and they were wanting to,。
but there were a group of people。
who were manipulating that and leading them astray.。
And Paul's saying, what does he say about those people?。
Avoid them.。
Avoid them.。
Have nothing to do with them.。
Kick them out of your church is actually what he's saying.。
Don't let them be members of your body。
because if that body gets corrupted,。
it won't be able to go anywhere.。
So that is the problem that you're going to face。
in the future, that you will have these people。
who are misleading and who are misdirected in their love.。
Just as Janus and Jambres opposed Moses,。
so these men also opposed the truth.。
And he refers to these two people。
who aren't actually referenced anywhere else in the Bible,。
but what he's referring to is the scene in Exodus 7。
where the miracles are happening,。
when Moses is trying to save the people,。
the Israelites, out of Egypt.。
And so all these miracles are happening.。
And then these two magicians。
who were trying to basically replicate what Moses is doing.。
And actually they succeed to a certain level.。
They managed to, through trickery, through magic,。
managed to get some tricks to happen.。
Counterfeiting miracles is what happens with these two guys.。
But Paul's saying, but eventually they will not get very far。
and their folly will be plain to his men.。
You see, here's the problem.。
Sometimes we follow things that look good.。
Sometimes we place our love into things。
that aren't really good.。
Why?。
Because they will hold these promises。
that they will satisfy us.。
They will hold these promises.。
Hey, if you follow me, if you look, look at this,。
look how beautiful it looks.。
Look how much you will be loved if you take this on.。
If you take this job or if you find this partner。
or if you pursue, if you buy this thing, if you buy that.。
But you see, that's the problem.。
And then we realise that actually that we've been misled.。
And so the question for us,。
as we think about this problem in the future,。
which is the problem for us right now,。
is are there loves that we have placed on things。
that actually shouldn't really be there?。
Have we misplaced our love?。
Have a think about that.。
Have we loved the wrong thing?。
And also have we put our trust and faith in people。
who actually may be misleading us?。
And this one requires such discernment for us。
as we think about, as we approach people,。
as we look at church leaders,。
as we look at pastors who are sharing the word of God,。
man, is this person sticking to the truth?。
Is this person sticking to the truth?。
There's this quote that the enemy didn't force Adam and Eve。
to lie and to disobey God.。
What did they do?。
The enemy basically just asked the Adam and Eve。
to mistrust what God said, distort the truth of God.。
And that's a question that we have to ask ourselves.。
Are we sticking to the truth?。
Because that is the way that we're gonna be able。
to answer the problems.。
So that's the first one really.。
The problem in the future is godlessness.。
The answer is from the past.。
And what is that answer?。
That answer is godliness.。
So he comes up with this whole list of bad things.。
And he's saying, "Hey, avoid such people."。
And then he looks at Timothy and then he goes,。
"You, however, you don't do that."。
He calls him out and sets him apart and says,。
"You, on the other hand, won't do that, can't do that.。
"Why?"。
And then he lists these things。
that Timothy himself has done.。
He says, "You, however, have followed my teaching,。
"my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience,。
"my love, my steadfastness, my persecutions and sufferings."。
So he goes through this list.。
He says, "You, Timothy, don't do these things.。
"Why?。
"Because you know better.。
"Why?。
"Because you followed my teaching.。
"You followed my conduct, my aim in life, my faith,。
"my patience, my love, my steadfastness."。
Isn't this interesting?。
He lists these six virtues out and says to Timothy,。
"You, however, don't do those things。
"because you've seen how I live."。
And he lists these things out.。
And the first one is teaching.。
And he says, "Hey, you know what I've taught.。
"You know the doctrine, but that's the only one。
"that really is about teaching.。
"What are all the other ones?。
"All the other ones are about life, are about conduct."。
You see, sometimes I think we just stop at teaching.。
We come into church and we think,。
"We are just gonna download information.。
"We listen to podcasts, and we're just gonna keep them。
"in our heads, and we're gonna leave them there。
"until our heads explode and they don't go anywhere."。
But Paul's saying that it's a part of it.。
It's an important part.。
It's the first part.。
It's the first thing on the list,。
but it's not the only thing.。
In fact, there are all these other things.。
"My teaching leads to my conduct, leads to my aim in life,。
"leads to my love, leads to my patience."。
He's saying, "You've watched me live."。
The passage that Mo shared on last week,。
2 Timothy 2, talks about this.。
2 chapter 2, verse 2, "And what you have heard from me。
"in the presence of many witnesses, entrust to faithful men。
"who will also be able to teach others."。
He's saying, "You've seen how I live.。
"You've been taught by me, and now I need you。
"to live it out and pass it on to other people."。
So with godlessness, that is the answer to,。
sorry, godliness is the answer to godlessness.。
But what does actually godliness look like?。
So if godlessness is misdirected love。
and it's misleading luck,。
godliness is intentionally lived and also intensely tested.。
And he starts with this, and as I just said,。
he goes through this whole list, and he's saying,。
"These are the things, you know what godliness is。
"because it's my teaching, it's my conduct,。
"it's my aim in life, it's my faith, my patience,。
"my love, my steadfastness."。
It is intentionally lived out.。
That is godliness.。
It's not just in the head.。
It is not just how many Bible verses you remember.。
It isn't how many Christian-y quotes you can memorise.。
Rather, it is intentionally lived out.。
It is modelled.。
And so the question for us is, do we model that godliness?。
We may have lots of Bible knowledge.。
We may be able to quote and retell。
Old Testament stories to kids, but do we live it out?。
Do we live it out?。
Is someone able to learn about God through the way we live?。
Do we intentionally live it out?。
Sometimes I look and I think about the people。
that I've followed, the mentors that I've had,。
and I'm like, "Man, I've taken some of their mannerisms.。
"I've learned how, actually, when I walk into a room。
"and I talk to people, I'm reminded。
"that's how my mentor used to talk to people."。
And I realise I've inherited some of his jokes。
and some of his bad sense of humour, and it's all there,。
but it's because I watched it.。
(speaking in foreign language)。
And it's a thing.。
But that's the thing.。
That's what Paul says that we should be doing.。
He's saying that, actually, not only should we look。
to have people to follow, we should also be。
the kind of person that other people follow.。
So there's actually two questions there.。
Maybe I'm cheating.。
The first question is this.。
Do you have anyone that you're following?。
You see, and actually, we hear this a lot.。
"Oh, I don't really have any mentors.。
"I don't have someone to kind of lead me in the right way."。
But you see, even when it comes to that,。
it needs a certain level of intentionality.。
So actually, for you, I encourage you, have a think.。
Are there people in your life,。
they don't have to necessarily be older than you,。
but just people that you look up to spiritually,。
or just in the way that they live,。
or maybe the way they parent,。
or the way that they go about their work?。
My encouragement to you is find those people,。
and then say, "Hey, I'd like to get to know you.。
"I'd like to get to understand why you are the way you are,。
"because I want to be a little bit like you."。
I had an experience of this this week.。
There's been someone who supports our mission。
to go and meet young people,。
and I was just having lunch with him,。
and I just couldn't help but ask him questions,。
because there's something about him.。
Now, he's very, very successful in his work,。
in his field of work, but yet,。
he takes his faith so, so seriously.。
I was like, "There's something about you。
"that I can't quite put a nail on it, finger on it,。
"but I want to know more about it.。
"I want to go to wherever you're going.。
"I want to talk to whoever you're talking to.。
"I want to be with you when you're discipling,。
"because there's something about you that I want to learn."。
So that's my first question.。
Are there any people like that in your life?。
There really should be.。
There really should be.。
Of course, we have to recognise that person。
is not a perfect person,。
but there's something that you can learn from that person.。
You see, the moment that we stop feeling。
as though we need to grow,。
the moment that we feel as though。
we are already at the top of our ladder,。
that's when we know that there's a problem,。
that we realise that we've always been learning,。
but we've not arrived yet at this knowledge of truth.。
So that's number one.。
And the second is then, as you look at your life,。
is your life worth following?。
You see, Paul, in these six virtues,。
basically summarises his life.。
Can you imagine just Paul's mindset?。
He's just about to die.。
He's just about to meet Jesus,。
and he summarises everything that he's done.。
His teaching, his aim in life,。
his love, his patience, his conduct,。
and he summarises it all.。
I wonder whether we are able to summarise what we did,。
what we've done, the lives that we've lived.。
Do we have people who look at us and go,。
"Oh, I want to follow you in that.。
"I love the way your kids have grown up.。
"I'd love to follow you.。
"I love the way that you approach and read the Word.。
"I love the way you pray."。
Now, not to say that we just do it。
for those moments of affirmation,。
because then we would just be appearing godly,。
but are we genuinely both godly。
and also not denying the Holy Spirit working in us?。
Do we have those people?。
Because godliness is intentionally lived,。
but it's also intensely tested.。
And this next passage here is the one。
that really should send shivers down our spines.。
"Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life。
"in Christ Jesus will be persecuted."。
As I said, we in Hong Kong, right here, right now,。
are not going through the same persecution。
as Paul and Timothy are.。
That's, they win, okay, in that sense.。
But there comes another question.。
What does this verse mean?。
"Indeed, those who desire to live a godly life。
"will face persecution."。
It leads me to another question in my mind is,。
does my faith cost me anything?。
For you, does you following in Jesus cost you anything?。
Just have to think about that for a second.。
Does it cost you to not have your own way in any scenario?。
Does it cost you when it comes to a certain promotion。
because you have to act a certain way?。
Does it cost you in something?。
Because here's the thing,。
I think if your faith in God doesn't cost you anything,。
I don't know whether it's worth anything.。
Can I say that again?。
If our faith in Jesus doesn't cost us something,。
I don't know if it's worth anything.。
I don't know if it's worth that much。
because godliness is intensely tested.。
There must be something about us following,。
declaring to follow this Jesus, this saviour,。
who ended up dying on a cross, by the way.。
So we shouldn't just expect prosperity。
and blessings from him because clearly,。
the man that we profess to follow。
did not end up with a big mansion,。
at least not here on earth.。
But if godliness is to be strived for,。
then it must cost something.。
And so the question for us is,。
do we ever put ourselves in a position。
where we surrender that control?。
We're back to control again.。
Where we get to that point where we're like,。
okay God, you're real, you're good,。
and because of that, I'm gonna let go.。
I know it's gonna cost me something,。
but I count everything else as loss。
in comparison to knowing you.。
Do we have that kind of heart。
when it comes to pursuing godliness?。
Because it must cost us something.。
Because a lot of the times, what we try and do,。
we try and be the best Christians we can be。
whilst being the best bankers。
or the best lawyers or the best teachers.。
We try and just blend into society.。
Sometimes I try and convince people,。
I say, "Hey, I'm a Christian,。
"but before you leave, I'm not weird."。
Especially, you know what?。
Many, many pastors say this.。
Whenever we go and meet new people,。
it's almost the question that stops,。
the word that stops any kind of conversation.。
They ask, "Oh, I'm James."。
"Oh, what do you do?"。
"Well, I'm a pastor."。
And suddenly, everyone else is like,。
"Oh, you're a pastor."。
Like, okay, I'm not gonna talk to you.。
Put your Bible away.。
And then I'm like, "No, no, no, I'm really cool.。
"Seriously, talk to me.。
"I'm really funny.。
"Keep talking to me.。
"I'm actually quite a normal person."。
And in our desire to fit in,。
to be loved and to be accepted,。
we end up compromising on what the gospel truly is about.。
That we have also been looked at by Jesus saying,。
"You, however, are different.。
"You may be in this world, but you are not of this world.。
"If you want to follow me, you have to die to yourself。
"and carry your cross and follow me.。
"It has to cost you something。
"because it cost me everything."。
This was the argument that I was having with Jesus。
when I was wrestling with him about coming to Hong Kong.。
I'm like, "And I've shared this before.。
"Do you understand all the things。
"I'm gonna have to let go of。
"in order to follow you to this crazy city。
"across the other side of the world?。
"Do you understand everything that,。
"I'm gonna have to do all these things?"。
And then the Lord spoke so clearly to me.。
He says, "Yes, I understand.。
"I know, my child.。
"But do you recognise what I gave for you?"。
And you see, sometimes we are trapped in that.。
It's like, "Oh, I wanna follow you, God.。
"I wanna be godly,。
"but what's the cheapest deal。
"that I can obtain to be godly?。
"Is there some kind of discount that I can get?。
"Is there some kind of voucher code I can get。
"where I can still be wholesome and godly,。
"but it doesn't cost me anything?。
"Can I find that deal?"。
But here, Paul says in verse 12,。
"Indeed, those who desire to live a godly life。
"will be persecuted."。
Maybe not in the same way that they were being persecuted,。
but it's got a cost to something.。
Do you get that?。
It's got a cost to something.。
Our faith has to be tested.。
It has to be tested.。
Godliness has to be intensely tested.。
So the problem in the future,。
the answer is in the past,。
in terms of the time that he spent with Paul.。
That's his answer.。
The godliness is, "Hey, you saw me live out。
"this godly life.。
"Remember it, especially when you're facing。
"these difficult times and I'm not around anymore.。
"Would you just remember?"。
He reminds him, "Hey, Timothy, do you remember that time。
"we were in Iconium?。
"Do you remember that time I was in Lystra?。
"Do you remember that time where you were with me。
"in these places in Antioch?。
"Do you remember?。
"When you go through your own stuff,"。
and every parent will have this,。
"Child, when you go through your own troubles,。
"remember the time that you spent with me in those places.。
"Remember what I was like.。
"The answer, your answer to the future。
"will be in your past with me.。
"And remember that.。
"Remember how I taught you.。
"Remember how I lived out my life.。
"Remember what the purpose of my life was.。
"Remember the love and the patience I had。
"even when I was beat down and persecuted in prison.。
"Remember, remember."。
And so we've talked about the future,。
we've talked about looking back,。
and finally, the charge for the present.。
And the charge here is this, to continue.。
Who's good at starting things,。
but not very good at finishing things or sustaining things?。
Paul's charge here at the very end is continue.。
Continue in what?。
Continue in the truth.。
In the midst of all this persecution,。
the way you avoid godlessness。
and the way you achieve godliness。
is by sticking to the truth.。
Remember, the enemy didn't force Adam and Eve to lie,。
but he tempted them to question the word of God.。
Did he really say that to you?。
Are you really that loved?。
Can you really trust in God?。
Or actually, should you try and fight。
for this promotion yourself?。
Should you engage in these office politics。
to try and manoeuvre your way to get a better life?。
The enemy tempts us to basically question the word of God.。
His tactics have not changed after all these years.。
So Paul's charge to Timothy is what?。
To continue in the truth.。
And he's saying, you're gonna face so many things。
that you don't know,。
but let what you know inform what you don't know.。
You're gonna face so many scenarios。
where there are completely unprecedented。
and filled with trouble.。
How are you gonna face those things?。
Let what you know from the word of God。
inform what you don't know.。
What you have here is not specific instructions。
in how you cope with an economic crisis.。
There are no specific instructions here。
about how you cope with a social unrest。
that's happening just in front of you on your street.。
It just has no specific instructions。
about these things right now in 2021 in Hong Kong.。
But what it does have is the values and the principles。
that have transcended time.。
Do you recognise this book that you read,。
that we're reading here,。
transcends time to the point where。
people have been holding this book。
for thousands of thousands of years.。
And it still remains relevant.。
And Paul, what he says to Timothy here in chapter three,。
verses 14 to 16 is,。
"Remember what you have read and continue in this truth."。
And really he's asking him to remember two things,。
where you came from and where you're heading.。
And these final few verses show us this.。
And he's saying, if you're gonna keep。
to this very, very narrow path of godliness,。
you need to remember the truth.。
And when he says that, he says,。
"Remember where you came from," verse 14 and 15, he says,。
"But as for you, continue in what you have learned。
"and firmly believe, knowing from who you have learned it."。
Whom did he learn it from?。
He learned it from Paul himself,。
because when he was a teenager,。
Paul met him in Leicester and said,。
"Hey, young man, you come with me。
"and I'm gonna teach you everything that I know," number one.。
He also learned it from his grandmother, Lois,。
and from his mother, Eunice.。
And he's saying, when you face these problems in the future。
where the times will be difficult,。
I want you to remember me, your grandmother, and your mother.。
I want you to remember us,。
because you need to remember who you are.。
You need to remember where you came from.。
This was the identity crisis that Simba had。
in "The Lion King," when Rafiki hits him on the head.。
Do you remember?。
And then he hears his voice from heaven。
and that's where it gets really epic.。
He says, "Remember who you are.。
"Look back at your past.。
"Look back and remember all the things you learned."。
And I think probably someone needs to hear this today.。
Someone who has now reached,。
you may have reached this crossword。
where you are now in unprecedented territory.。
You are in completely new territory.。
Your parents are behind you.。
Your future is ahead of you.。
But suddenly you're like, "Oh my goodness,。
"I have to make decisions on my own.。
"I have to face these troubles on my own.。
"This isn't like when I was a child,。
"when I was told exactly what to do and I would just do it."。
And Paul's saying, "Let that be the voice in your head.。
"Let my voice be the voice in your head.。
"Remember what I taught you.。
"Remember what your grandmother taught you.。
"Remember what your mother taught you.。
"And remember the sacred writings."。
Do we treat this book as sacred writings?。
Most of the time I just treat it as an app。
with a notification that is really annoying me。
'cause I know myself.。
So what do I do?。
I set myself reminders and notifications on my phone。
to read your Bible five times a day.。
And each time I see it pop up, I'm like,。
"Oh, it's you again.。
"Just get rid of it."。
But these are sacred writings.。
These have been passed on for thousands of years.。
These still remain to be true right now.。
And actually, one thing here to note,。
when Paul says to Timothy,。
"Remember what you learned from him.。
"Remember the sacred writings."。
He's not talking about。
the lovey-dovey Romantic New Testament.。
He's talking about Deuteronomy, Leviticus, numbers.。
Ezekiel, Isaiah.。
He's talking about the Old Testament.。
And what is it about the Old Testament?。
What's the story of the Old Testament?。
If there's anything that Timothy needs to remember。
and learn from the Old Testament, what is it?。
It's about the depravity of man.。
It's about the brokenness within us.。
And it's about our dependence for God.。
It's about the mistakes of man, but the grace of God.。
And he's saying, "Timothy, hold onto these truths.。
"Hold onto these things,。
"because these are the ones that are gonna keep you。
"on the straight and narrow.。
"Continue in the truth.。
"The truth is the only thing that will set you free。
"from the times of difficulty that will come about."。
How much do we cling onto this truth here?。
How much do we recognise that this truly is the Word of God?。
And he finishes, and he talks about what Scripture is.。
That Scripture is God-breathed.。
That these are the very words of God.。
And yet so often we just dismiss them,。
or we just remember soundbites just to keep us going.。
Just for whatever circumstance we have.。
We open the Bible up and go,。
"God, speak to me about my workplace.。
"Speak to me about my relationship.。
"Speak to me.。
"Describe me again.。
"Tell me about me."。
But no, do we recognise that we are part of this rich history。
and heritage of saints and sinners that have come before us?。
And do we treat this Word as sacred?。
Do we treat this Word as absolute truth?。
Because that's what we declare that we believe,。
but do we live it out?。
That's a question that we need to ask ourselves.。
And finally, because it teaches us where we're going.。
Because all Scripture is God-breathed.。
And in Hebrews 4 it says,。
"Scripture is living and active,。
"like a double-edged sword."。
And do we treat this Word of God like that?。
Because Paul's saying,。
"I charge you to continue in the truth."。
And there's two things that this truth will remind you.。
One, it will make you wise for salvation.。
Verse 15, "It will make you wise for salvation."。
What does that mean?。
It means that you will finally arrive。
at the knowledge of truth.。
You will be instructed about how you get。
to be in eternity with the Lord.。
It will tell you where you're heading.。
And the second thing is that you will then be finally,。
oh, oh, it's not there.。
It will finally, very, very, very final bit,。
that the man of God may be complete,。
equipped for every good work.。
So one, the goal of remembering and clinging to the truth。
is that then you will be wise for salvation.。
You will know that you are saved by Jesus,。
and that is where you are heading.。
And also that you will be equipped for every good work.。
You see, sometimes when we finally get it,。
when we finally get, ah, we are living for eternity,。
the things in this world won't matter.。
I constantly have this friend in my head。
who's, again, very, very successful in his field.。
And I was talking to him saying,。
"Hey, would you like to start a Bible study with this guy?。
"I know you're very busy.。
"I know you've got tons of things on in your job,。
"and lots of responsibilities,。
"but would you like to have a breakfast Bible study。
"with me and this other guy?。
"'Cause I think it would be really good。
"just for us to just be and spend time。
"in the Word together."。
And he said this thing, and he's like,。
"James, my job won't really matter in eternity.。
"So absolutely, yes, because this is what matters."。
And so when we finally get to that point。
where we realise, man,。
eternity is so much bigger than I realised,。
that this world that I'm living right now,。
these few decades that I have here are so, so, so, so small,。
there is a temptation, there is a risk that isn't so good,。
is that we just keep our eyes completely focused on heaven,。
that we are now wise for salvation.。
We are up there in the clouds,。
and that's when people start thinking that we're weird。
because we don't want to have anything to do。
with this earth.。
But that's the problem, right?。
That's the quote, right?。
Not only can we be heavenly-minded,。
but let's still be earthly good.。
Let's still be equipped for every good work.。
So that's the purpose of truth.。
To one, show us where we're going.。
Let make us wise for salvation,。
but also still equip us.。
This book can equip us。
so that we can still be of earthly good.。
The problem in the future,。
the problem right now is godlessness.。
It's this desire to be God himself, to control.。
The answer is in the past.。
And the charge right now, in the present,。
is to continue in the truth.。
How do we avoid godlessness?。
And how do we maintain hope in this godless world。
as we are surrounded just by terrible news?。
And how do we pursue godliness?。
And that's where my conclusion comes.。
If you're to remember one thing from this message,。
is how we are to respond and cope。
with the godlessness that surrounds us,。
we recognize that there is godlessness within us.。
I don't know how well you feel。
as being a human being right now.。
I wonder whether you feel that you are。
a decent and a good Christian.。
The heart of the gospel is to tell us that,。
no, actually, no one is good,。
at least to the level that the Lord requires.。
And recognizing that there is godlessness。
within each and every one of us.。
That is the step number one.。
And step number two is recognizing。
that God has also rescued you.。
You see, tucked in in this passage, right in the middle,。
when Paul is talking about his experiences of godliness。
and reminding Timothy what happened。
in Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra,。
he says these words at the end of verse 11.。
Which persecutions I endured,。
yet from them all the Lord rescued me.。
From all these things, the Lord rescued me.。
So one, let's recognize, let's remember。
that we all inside us have a level of godlessness。
that we need to repent of, that we need to be aware of.。
Each and every one of us.。
But then before we get too down on ourselves,。
we also remind ourselves, just like Paul,。
just like Timothy, we have all been rescued.。
By who?。
By the only one who is good.。
By the only one who is perfect, Jesus.。
And why?。
Not just to save us, but then to equip us。
for every good work right now.。
So that's the question, and that's the final question for us.。
What have you been rescued for?。
What have you been rescued for?。
May it be for the good works。
that the Lord has planned for you.。
I'll finish with this verse that Paul talks about。
in Ephesians chapter two.。
For we are saved by grace through faith.。
Not your own doing, but a gift of God.。
Not resolve works, for we are his workmanship。
created in Christ Jesus for good works.。
May we recognize and accept。
that we are surrounded by godlessness,。
that we also have godlessness,。
but may we pursue godliness by sticking to the truth,。
and the ultimate truth, the one truth。
that he wants you to remember,。
that this pastor wants you to remember,。
that the Lord wants you to remember,。
that you have been rescued.。
Shall we pray?。
Jesus, we thank you that you truly are the beautiful saviour.。
Will we spend a moment now and。
repent of the godlessness that exists in our hearts?。
Those 18 characteristics of godlessness。
that you warned Timothy about.。
I know every single one of us here。
are at least guilty of one.。
Some may even be guilty of all 18.。
But we take heart and recognize。
that despite all those things,。
regardless of all those things,。
we are deeply loved,。
that we have been saved and rescued by you.。
So we respond to your charge for us to continue in truth,。
that we cling on to your word, your sacred word,。
the word that you breathed out,。
the word that is living and active,。
profitable for everything,。
for teaching, for rebuking, for correcting, for training,。
in order that we would be equipped for every good work.。
(gentle music)。
Lord, bring us people who we can imitate.。
May we be people that are worth imitating.。
And Lord, may we be heavenly minded,。
but also still capable of earthly good.。
(gentle music)。
Thank you for this time.。
And as we respond in worship to finish,。
we cast our eyes back to you,。
the one whom we desire to imitate,。
the one who saved us, the only one who is good.。
Jesus, you are the answer.。
Jesus, you are the same yesterday, today, and forever.。
So ultimately, we cling to you because you are the way,。
you are the truth, and you are the life.。
Thank you, Lord.。
