(silence)。
- Good evening, everybody.。
And we've been going through Beware, Bit Grow.。
Who's been enjoying 2 Peter?。
Some really important lessons in 2 Peter.。
And Pastor John kicked us off the first week。
and he talked about the true Christian, right?。
The true Christian.。
Oh, it's hard to breathe.。
(laughing)。
I gotta inhale every time.。
All right.。
Pastor John talked about the true Christian life。
the first week, right?。
When a Christian, sorry.。
When a Christian begins with faith。
and then what happens?。
There's results, right?。
There's spiritual growth that happens afterwards.。
And the spiritual growth leads to practical results, right?。
There are qualities that Peter listed there.。
It was love, it was goodness, it was knowledge.。
All of these things come about as we become more like God.。
And then Pastor James did a really powerful sermon。
last week, warning us on the false prophets way of life.。
Right?。
They are like people, like dogs actually,。
that come back to their own vomit,。
like freshly washed pigs that roll back into the mud.。
They are actually slaves to money, sex, and power.。
They're talking about freedom.。
They wanna live a free life,。
but they're actually enslaved by their own sensual desires.。
And Peter continues to talk about warnings。
of the false prophets.。
And we're gonna read together here, verse three.。
Let's read with me.。
One, two, three.。
"Knowing this, first of all,。
"that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing,。
"following their own sinful desires.。
"They will say, 'Where is the promise of his coming?'。
"For where ever since the fathers fell asleep,。
"all things are continuing as they were。
"from the beginning of creation."。
Scoffers.。
Peter warns us that scoffers will come.。
And what are scoffers?。
They're mockers.。
People that insult others.。
People who laugh at others.。
And in this case, who are they laughing at?。
Who are they laughing at here?。
They're laughing at God, right?。
Where is this coming, right, that he promised?。
God, where is this coming?。
And so they have two points that they point out。
that they're mocking and scoffing at.。
Where is the coming that he promised, which is God?。
Where is the coming of God that he promised?。
And his judgment.。
And his judgment.。
And the second thing, second point that they point out is,。
well, we don't see his coming。
because everything is the same as it has been。
since the beginning of creation.。
And one of these people that were really the opponents。
of Christianity at that time was Epicurus, right?。
And one of his quotes was, "Death does not concern us。
"because as long as we exist, death is not here.。
"And when it does come, we no longer exist."。
And so Epicurus is saying here,。
"Just live your life, enjoy your pleasures.。
"Nothing bad is gonna happen in the end.。
"And even if it does, we no longer exist.。
"It doesn't matter.。
"There's no judgment in the final days.。
"There's no judgment coming."。
And that's sort of similar to us today, is it not?。
YOLO, live your life.。
You only live once, right?。
Go enjoy your best wine, your steak dinners,。
and who knows, right?。
Enjoy the things, do the things you wanna do now.。
That's the kind of lifestyle we're living also in today.。
And so Peter offers us some responses to these things.。
And we're gonna look at this together.。
Let's read together verse five.。
For they deliberately overlook this fact。
that the heavens existed long ago。
and the earth was formed out of the water。
and through water by the word of God.。
And then by the means of these,。
the world that then existed was divulged。
with water and perished, deluged, sorry, deluged.。
And then the next verse, by the same word,。
the heavens and earth that now exist。
are stored up for a fire, being kept apart。
until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly.。
Peter's first response is this.。
God spoke and what happened?。
The world existed.。
God spoke and there was light from the darkness.。
God spoke and land came out of the water.。
God spoke and there was animals.。
With his word, God creates.。
With his word, God creates.。
That's his first point.。
The second point is not only does the word of God create,。
the word of God can also destroy.。
He saw the evil that was in man's heart。
and he said, I will punish this earth, these people,。
and he sent a flood.。
And so with his word, he also destroyed.。
And so these scoffers, they're saying,。
whoa, there's no judgment, that's not true.。
In the beginning, God created the world。
and then destroyed it, but then he also restored it.。
There was a sense of restoration afterwards.。
And it says in the last verses that we read in verse seven。
that the word of God will also purify.。
The day of judgment is coming。
and the destruction of the ungodly.。
It's interesting 'cause back then,。
Noah was pleading with the people back then.。
The flood is coming, the flood is coming.。
Look at this huge ark that I built.。
It's massive and somehow it's in Hong Kong now.。
Come on this boat, a flood is coming.。
And you guys are just sitting on the beach in Repulse Bay,。
kicking the football around at Wan Chai Stadium。
and enjoying a great time eating and dining in Central.。
And then Noah's saying, the flood is coming,。
judgment is coming.。
And they're just laughing, scoffers, mockers, right?。
Like Noah, you must be a crazy man.。
You know, you may have had too much wine。
or some too many dinner wines with Pastor John.。
Is it not the same that back then。
they were also laughing at God, laughing at Noah?。
Where is this judgment?。
And then all of a sudden the rains came。
and judgment was there and God closed the door himself.。
God closed the door himself, judgment came.。
We continue in verse eight。
and we continue to see his response.。
Let's read together.。
But do not overlook this one fact, beloved.。
Let's read together.。
That with the Lord, one day is as a thousand years。
and a thousand years as one day.。
The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise。
as some count slowness, but is patient toward you,。
not wishing that any of you should perish,。
but all of you should reach repentance.。
Peter's fifth response is that the word of God。
is sustaining us.。
The reason why we can breathe,。
the reason why we can take each breath,。
that there's oxygen in the air,。
is because God, the word of God allows it.。
The reason why you can enjoy the goodness。
of the things on the earth is because God has allowed it.。
He sustains the world.。
He is the I am.。
He is present.。
He's in the past.。
He's not just a God that existed in the past,。
in the present, he is a God that is the I am,。
he is present.。
We see time as linear, continuously going forward.。
He sees it as a whole.。
He is the great I am.。
And Peter also says that we have。
a limited perspective of time, limited perspective.。
And we're gonna see in the next picture here,。
you know, because of all these Zoom things,。
you know, we do these Zoom games, right?。
This Zoom game is called, you know,。
Zoom in and Zoom out, right?。
What do you guys think this is?。
Take a guess.。
Any of you know?。
It looks like a mountain and with two eyes.。
Is it like a square puff thing?。
I don't know, character?。
What is it?。
Go on, book church logo, who got it?。
It's a Go on, book church, who got it?。
Who knew right away?。
Michelle, yeah, Agnes, yeah, maybe, okay.。
Carmen, very good.。
These people all work at church.。
They stare at it every day.。
But if we Zoom in just like before, we didn't know.。
Only like 1% of you knew.。
Anthony, how long have you been in this church?。
Did you know?。
You didn't know.。
We have a limited perspective of time.。
And that is what God is saying.。
Peter is saying here that God sees everything。
and we are so limited.。
And Peter says this, in fact,。
that the reason why God is allowing these things to happen。
and that God's judgment has not come yet。
is because he is patient.。
He's patient with you.。
He's patient with you.。
He knows your weakness.。
He knows your friends that have not come to know Jesus yet.。
And he's giving them time to repent.。
God is not slow.。
But God is patient.。
God is patient.。
The last response that Peter has is this.。
Let's read together.。
One, two, three.。
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief,。
and then the heavens will pass away with a roar,。
and the heavenly bodies will be burned and dissolved,。
and the earth and the works that are done in it。
will be exposed.。
The day of the Lord.。
The day of the Lord.。
It was prophesied in the Old Testament。
that the day of the Lord will come.。
Jesus talks about it,。
that the day of the Lord,。
the end times will come like a thief.。
And Peter's response is this,。
that there are three things that are gonna happen。
in the day of the Lord, the judgment day of the Lord.。
The first thing is that the heavens will pass away。
with a roar.。
Then the elements will be dissolved by fire.。
And the earth, finally,。
the earth and all that has been done in it。
will be disclosed or discovered or exposed.。
So what is this?。
What does this all mean?。
It's very sort of figurative and metaphorical.。
What does it all mean?。
Well, the heavens will pass away.。
We know that Jesus also talked about it as well,。
that the moon will turn into blood.。
In Revelations, we see right here,。
the sun turns black,。
the moon turned to blood red,。
the skies fell to the earth.。
The heavens receded like a scroll being rolled up。
and every mountain and island was removed from its place.。
So firstly, we see that when Peter says。
that the heavens will pass away,。
he literally means probably the stars。
and the sun and the heavens,。
it will pass away like a scroll.。
And then he also talks about the elements here.。
What are the elements that are dissolved by fire?。
Well, there are actually several meanings。
to the word elements.。
The first, it could be the elements of the earth,。
the universe, right?。
Earth, air, fire, water, right?。
It could be that.。
Or it could also be that he's quoting Isaiah 34, four,。
which says that all the stars in the sky will be dissolved。
and the heavens rolled up like a scroll.。
All the starry hosts will fall。
like withered leaves from the vine,。
like shriveled figs from a fig tree.。
Basically, what he's saying here。
is that in the day of the Lord,。
the heavens, the skies will be rolled up like a scroll.。
Imagine it, the earth, the clouds,。
everything rolled up like a scroll.。
And then the earth is exposed.。
The earth is exposed, laid bare,。
and God's judgment will come.。
Nothing will get in the way of the judgment of God.。
Nothing will get in the way.。
And we see from this, from Peter's response here,。
that God's purpose is not to destroy the earth.。
God's purpose is to renew the earth,。
cleanse the earth of the ungodliness and sin。
so that there would be a new heaven and a new earth,。
a new heaven and a new earth.。
One that is without sin,。
one that is made whole and new again.。
And my question to you today is,。
do you believe that God will one day judge the earth?。
That one day he will come。
and that one day he will make everything new,。
that there will be a new heaven and a new earth?。
Who believes it?。
Raise your hand.。
Yeah, everybody here?。
Most people?。
Very good.。
Let me just sum up what we've learned。
in 2 Peter so far.。
So Pastor John talked about the true Christian。
and then James talked about the first warning,。
the prophet's way of life.。
And then I just went through the prophet's wrong theology,。
that there's no second coming,。
that there's no judgment, right?。
And then we will see in the next couple of verses,。
we saw Peter's response,。
and next we will see how to live as a true Christian。
in the last days.。
How do we live as a true Christian in the last days?。
And so let's continue to read verse 11 together.。
One, two, three.。
Since all these things are thus to be dissolved,。
what sort of people ought you to live。
in lives of holiness and godliness,。
waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of the Lord,。
because of which the heavens will be set on fire。
and dissolved,。
and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn?。
But according to his promise,。
we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth。
in which his righteousness dwells.。
And so Peter begs the question,。
if all these things are to be dissolved。
and the earth is supposed to be cleansed。
and there should be a new heaven and a new earth,。
what kind of people should we be?。
What kind of people should we be?。
And I don't have time to go through everything together.。
I'm just gonna sum it up a little bit here.。
The first thing he tells us。
is that we need to have character.。
We need to have character.。
And he mentioned it in verse 11,。
that we need to live lives of holiness and godliness.。
And what is holiness?。
Holiness is that we are set apart for his thing,。
for his glory, for his purposes.。
We are to be set apart.。
In verse 14, as we'll see later,。
we are to be spotless and blameless.。
And so in our character,。
if God is really coming and we are in the last days,。
how should we live?。
We should live holy lives, spotless lives.。
And how do we do that?。
How do we do that?。
We have to live according to his word.。
We have to live according to his word.。
It's so hard nowadays with all the temptations.。
You walk down the subway and you might see an advertisement。
that causes you to be in temptation.。
A couple clicks on your phone and you can be in temptation.。
It's such a challenge now,。
especially in the last days, to be holy.。
And how do you be holy when everything,。
there's a spotlight on each one of us at times?。
You know, it's been sad to see some。
of these Christian leaders that we've looked upon。
and they've fallen and they haven't lived in holiness,。
spotless and blameless.。
It's not easy.。
There's so much temptation, so much challenge nowadays.。
The second thing that Peter tells us。
is that we have to watch our actions in the last days.。
These are the last days.。
He tells us that we need to hasten the coming of the Lord.。
Another interpretation of that。
is speed the coming of the Lord.。
Well, how do you speed the coming of the Lord?。
You know, how do you like, do you put the,。
you know, pedal to the metal?。
You know, how do you do it?。
There's several things that can speed。
the coming of the Lord.。
Evangelism, as you share the gospel,。
as you share the message of hope,。
you are speeding his coming because Jesus prophesied。
all the earth will hear of the gospel。
and then the end shall come.。
And then the end shall come.。
You can read that in the gospels.。
As we pray, as we pray that his kingdom come,。
we are speeding the coming of the Lord.。
As we are serving one another,。
building up the body of Christ,。
building up his kingdom,。
as we are serving the homeless, the needy,。
the Napoli street cleaners,。
the local school kids and teaching them English。
and teaching them Bible stories on Saturday,。
we are speeding the coming of the Lord。
'cause his word is being known.。
Our action is to speed the coming of the Lord.。
And we are also to grow in the grace of the Lord.。
We need to be like Jesus.。
How did Jesus show grace?。
He touched the leper.。
Nobody wanted to.。
They had their own separate room, right?。
It was roommate, right?。
I'm joking.。
They had their own room that Jesus touched the leper.。
Jesus ate with the tax collector.。
And the sinners.。
Jesus talked to the prostitute.。
Let the prostitute put oil.。
You know, Mary Magdalene put oil on him.。
Or adulterer, right?。
Everybody wanted to stone the adulterer,。
but he said, "He who is without sin,。
"let him cast the first stone."。
We need to be growing in the grace of Jesus.。
How is your action today?。
In these last time, what is your actions?。
Is it speeding the coming of the Lord?。
The next thing he said is our trust.。
Our trust that God's judgment is coming.。
One day he will return.。
Our trust is that God will cleanse the earth.。
Everything will be made new.。
There will be a new heaven and a new earth.。
God will come.。
God will do as he promised.。
He is a man of his word.。
He is a God of his word.。
We're gonna skip a couple of verses。
and go to verse 17.。
Verse 17.。
Let's read that together.。
One, two, three.。
"Therefore, dear friends,。
"since you have been forewarned,。
"be on your guard so that you may not be carried away。
"by the error of the lawless。
"and fall from your secure position.。
"But grow in the grace and knowledge。
"of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.。
"To him be the glory, both now and forever.。
"Amen."。
Peter continues and says, "Be on your guard."。
Be on your guard.。
And last week, Pastor John warned us.。
There's these people, these groups of people。
coming after the youth specifically.。
We need to be on our guard.。
And Peter says this specifically here.。
Do not be carried away by the error of the lawless,。
or you will fall from your secured position.。
Our position in Christ.。
We need to be on guard.。
Be careful.。
Be careful of the heresies that are out there,。
of those who lead people astray.。
There are people that are preaching false testimonies.。
We need to be aware.。
And lastly, he shared this, our knowledge.。
Our knowledge.。
We need to grow in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.。
And he also sums up, all the apostles agree.。
Even Paul, right?。
He mentions that specifically.。
How do we know how to defend ourselves from heresy。
if we don't know the word of God?。
If you don't know the truth, how can you tell?。
You can't.。
You must dig deep into the word of God.。
Grow in our knowledge of him.。
And so Peter is challenging us。
as Christians in the last times,。
and these are the last times, last days,。
that we need to be living as true Christians.。
And true Christians are spotless, holy in their character.。
They strive for holiness and spotlessness。
in their character, as we see in the next slide.。
He's challenging our action.。
We need to be hastening, speeding the coming of the Lord,。
sharing the gospel, serving those around us,。
loving the people around us,。
praying for his kingdom to come.。
We need to be trusting that God's word is true.。
His promises are true.。
We need to be on our guard.。
There are heresies out there.。
There are false prophets out there.。
And we need to be growing in the knowledge of God.。
And so my question to you today is this.。
Do you truly believe that God will come and judge the world?。
Do you truly believe?。
'Cause if you believe it,。
your belief will influence your actions, right?。
Your belief will influence your actions.。
If you truly believe it,。
then you would change the way you are living。
as a Christian in the last days.。
I remember when I was younger,。
as we see a picture of me in the younger self.。
No, I'm joking.。
(laughing)。
I remember when I was young.。
I grew up in the church as a pastor's kid.。
And I knew of all the stories,。
just like some of your kids,。
they grew up in the church,。
they knew of all the Bible stories,。
but I didn't believe it.。
And so one day my mom came into my room and said,。
have you truly placed Jesus。
as the Lord and Savior of your life?。
And I didn't, as an eight or a nine-year-old, I didn't.。
And so I prayed a prayer with my mom.。
And I asked Jesus into my life.。
I believed that Jesus existed at that time.。
And that influenced my action to place my trust in Him.。
I placed my trust in Him.。
And then when I was 14, there was a dedication night.。
And you know, we've had Explorer camps in the past,。
and we've had a dedication night.。
And the first dedication is dedicating yourself to God.。
The second one is to live your life,。
live a Christian life, live as a Christian.。
And the third is to serve the Lord full-time.。
And on this summer camp,。
my dad is the pastor and he's talking.。
He's like, Jesus has given everything for you.。
He's died on the cross for your sins.。
What is your response?。
How are you gonna respond to the Lord?。
And when I was 14 at that time,。
remember back when you were 14,。
at that time, I felt the Holy Spirit.。
The Holy Spirit was just touching my life.。
And there was just such deep conviction。
that I am a sinner, I need a Savior.。
And the Savior has given up everything for me.。
And what is my response?。
My response was, it was natural.。
I'm just gonna give my life to God.。
And so that day, when I was 14, I walked up。
and I gave my life to serve Jesus full-time.。
I believed God saved me.。
I believed God gave his life for me.。
And that influenced my action.。
My action was what?。
I'm willing to give up my life to serve you full-time.。
When I was in university,。
I got involved with a Christian group.。
And this Christian group went out。
and had spiritual conversations with students on campus.。
They did surveys, like, oh, what do you think about Easter?。
It's coming up.。
Oh, do you think Easter,。
does it have any religious connotation for you?。
And some people said yes, some people said no.。
And I remember this one conversation。
with somebody who was an atheist.。
He got so angry at the belief of God。
because there were so many evil things。
that are happening in this world.。
How can this supposedly righteous God。
let all these bad things happen?。
And he got so angry and was like, okay, calm down.。
We're just trying to have a conversation,。
see what you think.。
No need to be so emotional about it.。
But at that time, that was the first time I saw。
that there are other, really other beliefs in this world,。
strong, opinionated beliefs that were against God.。
You know, I lived in that Christian bubble.。
Everything was good.。
Everybody believed in the same thing.。
And when I stepped out in the university,。
I saw, I believed。
that this world had all these sorts of different beliefs.。
And my belief that the world was different。
caused me to really have a desire to share the gospel.。
Before I thought, oh,。
everybody sort of believes the same thing.。
We all live in the happy Christian bubble.。
Everybody sing kumbaya.。
That when we had that conversation with that atheist。
and he got so emotional and he believed it so much,。
that's when my belief influenced my action.。
And that's when my passion。
to share the gospel really started.。
On campus, we started sharing the gospel。
and I started learning more about Jesus。
and his ministry and his ministry of building up disciples.。
And I saw, wow, he had a vision.。
It wasn't just, he was just randomly walking around.。
Oh, this looks like a nice spot on Google Maps.。
Let's go here and see what happens.。
No, he had a strategic plan,。
building up the disciples around him,。
training them, seeing them grow。
so that they could also multiply.。
My belief that Jesus had a strategic plan。
influenced me to now want to make disciples,。
build up the next generation of leaders.。
And so that's become my mission statement of life.。
Share the gospel, build up leaders for the next generation,。
for the gospel, Christ-centered believers.。
And then I started to work in finance.。
Who works in finance?。
It's a lovely place, isn't it?。
Full of love and care and not greed and giving, right?。
I worked in finance in Toronto.。
I was in some of the major banks for two years.。
And I saw the greed of the people.。
They were consumed with money, money, sex, power.。
Fake it till you make it.。
That's what I was taught.。
And then I came to Hong Kong。
and I see how much you guys work.。
You guys really like to work, you know?。
Nine to nine, sometimes, you know,。
these guys work at nine to two。
and then wake up and then work again.。
They're slaves.。
It's like becoming a slave to the greed,。
slave to the work, slave to the money.。
And my belief, my understanding of what was happening。
in the corporate world influenced my desire。
to share the gospel with the people, the working people.。
Why do I work with university students?。
So that one day when they come up into work,。
they'll live Christ-centered lives.。
They'll do so well in their job。
and yet they'll do so well。
in glorifying God at the same time.。
That'd be so cool.。
A lineup of lawyers, professors,。
glorifying God in whatever they do.。
My belief influenced my actions.。
So my question to you today。
is what is your action telling you。
about what you truly believe?。
What is your action telling you。
about what you truly believe?。
Does that make sense?。
It does.。
And my hope to you is that God。
is speaking into your heart today.。
These are the last times.。
There is a sense of urgency.。
We need to see people come to know Jesus。
as we share his gospel.。
We need to trust that God is using us。
as we share his word, as we step out in faith.。
I trust that God is speaking to you tonight。
and telling you that there is a sense of urgency.。
We need to change our action.。
We need to change our character.。
We need to change what we trust.。
We need to trust that Jesus is coming。
and he will judge the earth one day.。
I'm gonna ask the worship team to come up。
as we take a time to pray.。
Let's just bow down our heads。
and take a moment to reflect。
what is our belief?。
Do we truly believe that God is coming?。
That he will judge in the last days?。
Do we truly believe that God is asking us。
to make disciples of all nations,。
to go to the ends of the earth?。
Let's take a moment to respond.。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
(soft piano music)。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word in 2 Peter.。
It's a reminder for us as Christians。
in the last days that we need to prepare for your coming.。
There is work to be done.。
You are patient with us.。
You're patient with our friends and those around us.。
You're giving us an opportunity to repent。
and share the gospel with them.。
Lord, give us this passion to live for you.。
In Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Let's stand.。
