Thank you Michelle for that kind introduction. Tonight I'm not going to preach so much as。
prophesy. Now I know what you're thinking, has Pastor John gone weird? But I just want。
to debunk and describe what prophecy actually is. That prophecy is not so much predicting。
the future as speaking God's word for the moment. Prophecy is forth telling as much。
as foretelling. And it may simply be defined as speaking forth, speaking out God's word。
to those whom God has desired to hear it. God, through scripture and through his people,。
continues to speak today. And he wants to use us to strengthen, encourage and comfort。
each other. I believe that God in the year 2020 is still saying, "Dear Church." And。
that is the title of our 8 week series in the book of Revelation and will encompass。
the first three chapters of Revelation. Revelation is a book of prophecy. We will be studying。
seven letters to the seven churches. They are prophetic letters. Now look at this, "On。
the Lord's day I was in the spirit and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet which。
said write on a scroll what you see and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus, to Smyrna,。
to Pergamum, to Thyatira, to Sardis, to Philadelphia and Laodicea." And here we see a map of those。
seven churches. The obscure and extravagant imagery of the book of Revelation has led。
to a wide variety of Christian interpretations. Historicists, Preterists, Idealists and Futurists.。
Now don't get hung up on four big words. The table in front of you explains them a little。
bit. Historicist interpretations see Revelation as containing a broad view of history. To。
put it another way, the historicist aligns historical events with what is described in。
Revelation. Whilst Preterists interpretations treat Revelation as mostly referring to the。
events of the first century, to the apostolic age or at least to the fall of the Roman Empire.。
In other words, they believe that the prophecies in Revelation have already been fulfilled.。
Thirdly, the idealist or should we say symbolic interpretations consider that Revelation does。
not refer to actual people or events but it is an illustration of the spiritual path and。
the ongoing struggle between good and evil. Futurists meanwhile believe that Revelation。
describes future events with the seven churches growing into the body of believers throughout。
the age. You might be asking yourself which approach is correct? Well, each one is true。
in some regard. The book of Revelation did speak to John's day. It speaks to church history.。
It does have meaning for our personal life. And while elements of the first three approaches。
have their place, we cannot deny the place of the futurist view. We can know that the。
book of Revelation speaks with clarity about what we call end times because of two central。
principles drawn from Revelation 1, 1-3. Firstly, we believe that the book of Revelation must。
mean something. This is a book that Jesus gave to show his servant something. It is。
not a book of meaningless nonsense. It has a promise of blessing, not a promise of confusion.。
And secondly, we believe that Revelation definitely claims to contain predictive prophecy. John。
made it clear. He spoke about things which must shortly take place. He said the time。
is near. John wrote about events that were still future to him. But what about the church。
today? I believe this is possibly one of the most significant times in church history.。
Are we a church in crisis with all that's going on? Or are we a church in opportunity?。
I believe we have a choice. We can either get on with what we know as church, doing。
things that we've always done in the way that we've always done them. People say to me,。
"Pastor John, I can't wait to get back to church the way it was." Or do we use this。
season to listen to what God is saying as he speaks the word, "Dear Church." And to。
help me, I want to look closely at the first few words of Revelation chapter 1. Let me。
read them. "The revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave him to show his servants things。
which must shortly take place." Let's pick this apart. Firstly, the revelation of Jesus。
Christ. Now the ancient Greek word which is translated "revelation" is "apokalipsis"。
means the apocalypse. This word simply means a revealing or an unveiling. The book of Revelation。
is the revelation of Jesus Christ in the sense that it belongs to him. He is the one doing。
the revealing. It is also Jesus' revelation in the sense that he is the object revealed.。
Jesus is the person revealed by the book. From the outset, we are given the most important。
truth about the book of Revelation. Yes, this book shows us the Antichrist. Yes, it shows。
us God's judgment. Yes, it shows us calamity on the earth. And yes, it shows us the mystery。
Babylon in vivid detail. But most of all, it is the revelation of Jesus Christ to us.。
If we catch everything else but miss Jesus in the book, we miss the book of Revelation.。
And I want to say to us KFCI, how we need a revelation of Jesus. What is Jesus to you?。
A person in a book? A good man? A worker of miracles? An upmarket Santa Claus that you。
can pray to with your shopping list? I'm praying for you right now that he would reveal himself。
to you as a saviour, lord, healer, deliverer. But what was the reason for the book of Revelation?。
The answer is in this phrase, "which God gave him to show his servants." This is an important。
reason why God the Father gave the revelation of Jesus Christ. He gave it to show his servants.。
God gave this revelation that it might be shown, not hidden. This is an apocalypse,。
a revelation, not an apocrypha, something hidden. But what was God the Father through。
Jesus showing? He was showing things which must shortly take place. This describes when。
the events will take place. They will happen shortly and they must happen shortly. This。
means the book of Revelation is a book of predictive prophecy. It speaks of things that。
will happen in the future, at least in the future, at the time of writing. According。
to Revelation 1, verse 3, the time is near for the fulfilment of these things but the。
time was not present at the time of writing. Now let me explain. Short and near are relative。
terms and my friends this is God's timetable, not man's. Yet for 2,000 years history has。
been on the brink of consummation of all things, running parallel to the edge, not running。
towards a distant brink. The Greek phrase for shortly literally means quickly or suddenly。
coming to pass. The idea is not that the event may occur soon but that when it does it will。
be sudden. I just want us to be ready. Now God had a harsh word for nearly all of the。
seven churches. I don't want to do a spoiler alert tonight but recommend the next seven。
weeks. But God also had a promise to the conqueror in both the NIV and the ESV. He talks about。
to the one who conquers. It's like if we've got a habit in everyday life. When we conquer。
it our life is different before than after. But tonight I want to cover what I believe。
that God may be saying to the church now. And I would submit that God may be saying。
this. To the church in 2020 there is no new normal. I hold this against you. You keep。
saying I want to get back to church. But the church you want to get back to does not exist.。
Listen to my voice. I've drawn a little picture with Bonnie's help of highway 2020, freeway。
2020, motorway 2020. Call it what you like. But let's look at it just for a moment as。
I speak. Let me explain. We were able to by God's grace start KFCI in October 1996. No。
it was October 2016. I had a senior moment then. And our history up until 2019 was fairly。
smooth sailing. We were building momentum. We were going into something. And then in。
a few years accidents, obstacles, things got in our way. We saw firstly the political protests.。
I remember one Saturday evening preaching here when there were virtually cocktails,。
Molotov cocktails going on outside our building. Then we had and have COVID-19. And then we。
had the political differences in our city. I believe we're at a point in our church and。
the church worldwide where we have a choice. We can go back to the way things were and。
there is definitely a path that leads back there. Or we can look forward. Now I need。
to warn you the way forward is dangerous. It's bumpy. There are warning signals out。
there. But I just want to say this. The temptation is to go back. Retrace our roots. Go back。
to the familiar path. It is the easy option. God I believe is warning us against this.。
I believe it is simply not an option if we are to fulfil God's vision for our church.。
Because almost 100% of Hong Kong is linked by technology as we are using technology this。
evening. I want to use some technological type words to demonstrate what I believe God。
is encouraging us to do when he says the words "Dear Church". Firstly and importantly I believe。
God is saying "Church do not push the repeat button". Let me say that again. Do not press。
the repeat button. Isaiah 43 says "Forget the former things. Do not dwell on the past.。
See behold I am doing a new thing". We often talk about the good old days. Until we realise。
that the good old days probably weren't so good after all. But what does doing a new。
thing entail? What is God's mandate to us today? I want to continue the theme of ours。
as I share what I believe God is saying to KFCI. To the church that we see in 2020. And。
the first is this. Reset. Can I repeat that? Reset. It means to set again or to set differently.。
Alternative words I could have used were to change, to reappraise, to adjust. I believe。
we can consider that God's finger is on the reset button. I could quite easily use the。
word reboot. But 2020 has made this more of a necessity than an option. I think we've。
had more services online this year than live. We've experimented with pre-recorded sermons,。
pre-recorded services, live stream, zoom worship like this evening. And I want to thank all。
those in our congregation who have made these possible. We've missed face to face. But church。
attendance here and around the world, albeit measured by clicks and likes, has actually。
increased. We have attracted attendees from all across the world. With some weeks up to。
500 views on YouTube for our Saturday evening service. To be honest with you, people have。
gotten used to doing church in their shorts and not have to travel on the MTR, on the。
bus or park the car. Let's face it, in Hong Kong that's expensive to attend a church service.。
We do need to change, reappraise and adjust. We need to start anew with fresh ideas in。
the way that is consistent with who we are as KFC. But not necessarily constrained by。
what has taken place before. And the fact is this, online is something we will be seeing。
more and more globally in the future. And we have to decide, not how we can fight it,。
but how we can use it to our advantage. I want to recommend a book to you. It's a book。
called "From Social Media to Social Ministry". It was written by Nona Jones. You'll want。
to read it cover to cover. But in any event, KFCI, we need to reset. And after we have。
reset, we need to renew. Now renew can mean resume an activity after an interruption or。
to give fresh life and fresh strength to. Church, this is the key. It's the same word.。
But do we resume an activity after an interruption? Or do we give fresh life and strength to it?。
I believe that God is calling us to the latter. The alternative meanings are to refresh, to。
rejuvenate, to renovate and to restore. These are words of renewal. Look at this. It's taken。
from Isaiah 40. But those who hope or alternatively those who wait on the Lord will renew their。
strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. They will run and not grow weary. They will。
walk and not grow faint. Church, the core is clear. Reset. Renew. Now to be honest,。
I was tempted to say next, restore. Certainly it's a computer term, restore to factory setting.。
It's a biblical term. It's mentioned over a hundred times in the Bible. But I have a。
stronger word with a similar meaning and it's been on my heart for quite a while. Restore。
can mean that you go back to what you've had before. So I've chosen the word revive. Revive。
means to restore to life or restore to consciousness. I've had a stirring in my bones for quite。
a while with the political situation, with COVID-19, with all that is going on around。
the world. That God is about to bring a revival. But what do I mean by this? The Psalmist asked。
this in Psalm 85, "Will you not revive us again that your people may rejoice in you?"。
The Psalmist is asking God for revival so that once again the people can rejoice in。
God. Now where does revival begin? And can I just say tonight, if you are not a Christian,。
you can't be revived because firstly you've got to be vibed. You've got to be made alive。
to Christ. Can I commend that to you tonight? But if you're a believer, I invite you to。
draw a circle around where you are standing. And I want to tell you this, revival starts。
within that circle. The word, the Hebrew word for revive is "chayah" and means to be quickened,。
to be made alive, to be restored. Showing what I just said. You must first be quickened。
or made alive by the Spirit of God before revival can occur. And this takes a new birth,。
a new birth in Him. But the word that keeps coming to me is "awakening." I am 67 years。
of age and I'm fed up with hearing stories about past awakenings. I want to see one now.。
My friends, it will not come if we repeat. But let us reset, reboot, renew. We can do。
this but God is the only one who can revive. But I've not finished yet. There is another。
hour left. And it's this word "reconciliation." I'll say it again. Reconciliation. The past。
year or so has resulted in a society that is divided and isolated. There has never been。
more polarization than that which we see now. Young and old, rich and poor, Republican or。
Democrat, blue or yellow, I could go on. Two things I believe God's saying to us. Be reconciled。
to Jesus, oh yes, but be reconciled to each other. And I want to honor here Florence Lau。
and others who have encouraged me in this area of reconciliation. I want to read you。
a passage from Paul's letter to the Corinthians, from 2 Corinthians 5. So from now on we regard。
no one from a worldly point of view. Though we once regarded Christ in this way, we do。
so no longer. Therefore if anyone is in Christ, the new creation has come. The old is gone.。
The new is here. All this is from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ and。
gave to us the ministry of reconciliation. That God was reconciling the world to himself。
in Christ, not counting people's sins against them. And he has committed to us the message。
of reconciliation. We are therefore Christ's ambassadors. As though God was making his。
appeal through us, we implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. Now I have a。
fairly hard word now. Don't even begin to think about fulfilling God's vision in renewing。
our church before we fulfill the prayer of Jesus in John 17. He said this, "My prayer。
is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message,。
that all of them may be one Father just as you are in me and I am in you." My concluding。
comments are these. There is no new normal. I hold this against you. You keep saying,。
"I want to go back to church." But the church you want to get back to doesn't exist.。
Listen to my voice. To him who resets, reboots, renews, refreshes, I will make him or her。
an agent of reconciliation. My friend, will you hear God's voice today? A friend wrote。
to me last year. He said this, "The trip of a lifetime ended, landed in my lap. I visited。
the seven churches of Revelation. A friend and I flew to Izmir, Turkey, where we rented。
a car and we drove to all seven churches in a quick three-day trip. In the end, we saw。
a lot of rocks." Now don't get me wrong, they were beautiful rocks. But they were rocks,。
ancient ruins of cities that were once teeming with people long ago, rather like Hong Kong。
is now. In the Apostle John's vision of Revelation, Jesus spoke to Christians in these cities,。
commending some but warning most. My question is this, do we want to be a church, a city。
with a lasting legacy or do we want to be a pile of rocks? That's my question. Hear。
what God is saying to his church. Let me pray. Father God, we thank you for the book of Revelation.。
We thank you Lord that you chose to speak to those seven churches and the churches throughout。
the ages through the words that you spoke to the Apostle John. And we thank you Lord。
that you are still speaking to your church today. I pray Lord that we will have the grace。
to hear your voice and Lord that you would cause us to respond. For those of us who are。
not yet believers, Lord that tonight we would make a decision to repent, to turn to you。
and to give our life to you. And for those of us who are believers, that we wouldn't。
be looking to go back to those things that we knew, those familiar things. And Lord that。
you would set our path down the road and we know it's going to be difficult to reset,。
to renew and to revive. That Lord that you would bring your church in 2020 here in Hong。
Kong and around the world to a revival. God we proclaim that you are sovereign over us.。
May your sovereign power flow through your church right now in Jesus name. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
