- Good evening, everyone.。
My name is Michelle, and I'm really excited tonight because it's the first time that I'm。
preaching after we've been back and are able to meet together.。
So I'm just very excited.。
And today we're on the topic of a prayer-centered church.。
Yeah, just at the back, could I have a bit of light here?。
I really can't see my script.。
So the very first scripture that we're reading is actually already read by Bonnie today.。
And basically what we see is that the church, the early church devoted themselves to the。
teachings of the apostles.。
And yes, I know it's not as fast as God making light here, but it's okay.。
Don't worry.。
Whatever we'll make do.。
So what we see is that the early Christians, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching.。
They were in fellowship.。
They were breaking bread and they were praying together.。
And so when they did that, oh wait, I can actually go without my mask.。
Don't worry, I've done my rad test.。
So what happened is that after they've gathered and have prayed, the Lord has added their。
numbers daily, those who are being saved.。
And so today we really want to look at what it means to be a prayer-centered church.。
Do you think our church is a prayer-centered church?。
Yeah, okay.。
You're like, "I don't know if we are."。
But yes, and we want to look further today about what that looks like.。
And sometimes we feel like we can just pray individually at home.。
We don't necessarily have to pray together in one place at one time.。
But today we're going to look at what really happens when we do do that, to come together,。
pray at the same time, in the same place, and how the Lord will move in this place.。
So first off, I want to share a Bible passage from the book of, we've already read that,。
the book of Acts in chapter 12.。
So at that time in this chapter, King Harold had just beheaded James, the brother of John.。
Now because the Jews had delighted it so much that he decided, King Harold, that he's going。
to capture Apostle Peter and put him in prison.。
And so as he did that, the people knew that the next day he would be trialed.。
So the early church, the Christians came together and they said, "We have to pray for Peter."。
And so they prayed together.。
And Peter, when he was actually bound by chains to two soldiers, all of a sudden he saw an。
angel of the Lord appeared.。
And the Lord instructed him, "Come, let's go."。
And even as he was leaving the prison, he thought he was in a vision.。
Even he himself didn't believe it.。
Until he got out of the prison, that's when he realized, "Oh, this is real.。
I am out of the prison."。
And so he ran straight to the house of Mary where all the Christians had gathered.。
And you know what he did?。
He knocked on the door, right?。
And then a servant girl answered.。
And this is what happened.。
And we can see it in verse 14 here.。
When she, Ronda, which is the servant girl, recognized Peter's voice, she was so overjoyed。
that she ran back without opening the door.。
Okay?。
So you answer the door, but you don't open it.。
And then she ran back and she exclaimed to everyone, "Peter's at the door."。
And then everybody says, "You're out of your mind."。
That can't be true.。
But she insists, "No, he's really there."。
So he says, "It might be an angel.。
It might be his angel."。
But when Peter kept on knocking and they finally opened the door and saw him, they were astonished.。
"It is Peter.。
He is standing right there."。
So this brings us to our first point, that a prayer-centered church brings unity and。
faith.。
Now, we saw this in Acts chapter 12, that people saw a need.。
There was an urgent need because Peter might be trialed the next day and he could be beheaded。
just like James.。
So if he doesn't come out today or tomorrow, he's probably going to be dead.。
And so the church gathered together, not for their own individual needs or desire at that。
time, but they came together for the need of a brother, for someone within the congregation,。
someone that they loved, and for the kingdom of God.。
So when we pray together, it's actually going to bring us unity to God's heart and what。
he wants us to do.。
And as they prayed together, they were exercising their faith.。
Now I could see from the scripture, they weren't quite sure what God would do.。
Maybe they had a little bit of faith.。
Okay, maybe God will do something.。
Maybe when the sword comes down, it won't chop his head off or something.。
But somehow they were not expecting him to be standing at the door.。
But you see when we pray together, our faith will grow because it no longer is an individual。
experience, but it's a corporate experience.。
Can you imagine if today we were all praying together, I don't know, for someone to show。
up at the door and that person actually showed up, got out of prison and is standing right。
there.。
Can you imagine our level of faith would grow?。
I mean, even just hearing it, let's say someone didn't come and they've missed it.。
And even when we have told them, their faith might not be the same as when we had experienced。
it together.。
And so as a prayer-centered church, we need to come together to pray, not necessarily。
for ourselves, we can, but more so for the heart of God, to align ourselves there.。
And when we experience him, it will bring us to a new level of faith.。
Now last Friday night, we had a refresh night.。
Now for those of you who have never been to one or don't know what it is, well, it's a。
night where we come together, we worship God and we pray together.。
And I still remember when we were singing in that time, I just felt like I started to。
forget all the busyness of life and I start to forget the things that were on my mind。
or the things that were troubling me.。
And as we were singing, I really felt that we were just looking towards God and trying。
to receive what his heart was.。
And in that evening, we had another time where we actually prayed in groups of two to about。
five people.。
And we prayed for a number of things.。
I mean, it's too small for all of you.。
It's too small for myself as well.。
But there was a list of things that we prayed for.。
We prayed for each other.。
We've prayed for the community.。
We prayed for a church to be growing in his words and to be towards his kingdom.。
And we also prayed for the world where we pray for leaders and those who are being oppressed。
or in war.。
And I still remember, as different people were praying, I realized they use words that。
I might not use.。
And they have certain passion that I might not have in that area.。
Or they may have set things in a way that I didn't know that we would pray like that.。
And I felt like as I was agreeing with them and saying, "Amen," they were bringing me。
to a kind of prayer that I wouldn't be able to do if I were by myself.。
And the prayer meeting felt very short, even though I think it was close to two hours.。
And I just think that it was a time where we set aside everything.。
We go to God, and that's where his heart is.。
So, and I remember we prayed for the church where our community would grow closer together。
and deeper together.。
And so I felt like the next day, which is a Saturday, that's where we met in service.。
And a whole bunch of us went down for the buffet dinner.。
Okay, who went last Saturday?。
Woo, yeah.。
I mean, we had...。
I mean, if we're gonna cheer, let's really cheer, okay?。
Woo!。
Okay, so we had 72 people who went for the dinner.。
And we wanted to have more people to go, but we had a wait list.。
I think we end up accommodating everybody.。
But I mean, to my surprise, there were so many people, and not only the number of people,。
but the depth of the conversation.。
Of course, I didn't get to eavesdrop everybody's conversation.。
But just seeing the amount of engagement, yeah, you should be able to find yourself。
there.。
Just the amount of engagement we had.。
It was like beyond what I had imagined or hoped.。
And I felt like because the night before we did pray, and that has played a part for us。
to really come closer together.。
And so I just wanna encourage all of us that as a prayer-centered church...。
Okay, I know, don't start being hungry, okay?。
I know there's a lot of food here.。
Try to come back.。
As we are a prayer-centered church, let us remember that we can pray together for someone。
who's in need, for those that are around us, or for the world.。
Now the second thing that I do wanna share is another scripture.。
The second scripture that I want to share with you is from James chapter 5.。
And it says here in verse 13, "Is anyone among you in trouble?。
Let them pray.。
Is anyone happy?。
Let them sing songs of praise.。
Is anyone among you sick?。
Let them call the elders of the church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in。
the name of the Lord.。
And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well.。
The Lord will raise them up.。
If they have sinned, they will be forgiven.。
Therefore, confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be。
healed.。
The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective."。
Now at first glance at this passage, we might think, "Okay, I think the Bible's asking us。
to reach out to someone and pray for us.。
Maybe the elders, the leaders, because they're more spiritual."。
But actually at a closer glance, this is not what the passage is about.。
What the passage is about is for us to become authentic and vulnerable to each other, especially。
through confessing our sins and praying for one another.。
Now how do we know that?。
Well, because in verse 13, it tells us that rather you're happy or suffering or you're。
sick, find someone, rejoice with them or ask them to pray with you.。
That's what we need to do as a prayer-centered church.。
But this really is trying to tell us that it's not the people, that particular person。
we don't find, "Oh, Pastor John, Sandra, pray for me because your prayers are more powerful."。
It's not like that because the verse says that it's the prayers that are lifted in faith.。
That's what makes it powerful.。
And so as we read, though, we don't quite understand.。
All of a sudden it talks about sins and how when we pray for each other, sin seems to。
be forgiven.。
I mean, what's that all about?。
I thought we're just asking to be prayed for.。
Why are there sins involved now?。
Now what we see here is that this passage is really asking us to do a little bit more。
than just asking for prayer.。
It's asking us to confess our sins.。
Now we don't do that very often, do we?。
We don't go to someone and say, "Hey, Nick, I want to confess my sins to you."。
Why?。
Because we feel like all we need to do when we have sinned against someone, what do we。
do?。
We feel like we just tell God about it and we might, if we're brave enough, go to the。
person and ask for forgiveness.。
But in here, the passage does not say, "Go to the person and ask them for forgiveness."。
There's another passage for that.。
Here it says, "Tell someone the sins that you have committed."。
Now how often do we do that?。
Pretty much not at all, if we do it at all.。
Why?。
Well, you know, we come to church, what do we want to display?。
The best version of us, right?。
Even if it's not the best version, it's the version that we want to display to other people.。
I don't want to tell you what I did yesterday, like yelling at someone.。
No, you don't want to know that.。
We just want to give the best version.。
I mean, the best we can do is maybe during our clan or our prayer group, we might say,。
"Oh yeah, work's been really busy.。
Yeah, I've been suffering with ... I've been like, there were too much assignments," or。
things like that.。
We try to keep it kind of to the surface.。
Now for some of us who are a little bit braver, we're going to share a little bit deeper,。
okay?。
"Oh, I'm having some struggle in this relationship," or like, "Oh, my coworkers, they're driving。
me crazy," right?。
So what we find that we do most of the time though in our prayer group is we're complaining.。
Well, I mean, at least I am.。
Who's guilty of it?。
Don't put up your hand.。
Okay, okay, put up your hand.。
Great, great, great.。
I mean, I might be the only one guilty.。
No, of course not.。
We're all guilty.。
What do we do?。
We're like, "Oh, you know that person, you can't believe it.。
You know he did that again.。
Oh, you know my husband didn't listen to me and he doesn't care about me.。
Oh, my wife, you know, she's controlling me again.。
I mean again."。
And then you talk about your boss, right?。
Of course my boss is unfair.。
When is he ever fair, right?。
Oh, right, except my boss.。
Except my boss.。
And so, you know, what we hear is all this grumbling.。
So when we're in small groups, that's all we hear.。
And then the next thing is, "Pray for me."。
Okay, I'll pray for you.。
And you know, when we say these things, what does it really do to us?。
Really, it lifts us up and it puts down the person that we've talked about.。
That's what it does, which is why the Bible does not say, "Come together and let's complain。
and then pray for each other."。
It says, "Confess our sins and pray for each other."。
And what does that mean?。
I mean, can you imagine if we come together and said, "You know what?。
I'm going to call.。
Pray for me.。
I've been so selfish, you know?。
I've been so selfish.。
All I ever think about is how bad my husband has been to me or like how my wife has been。
nagging me."。
Okay, I'm not talking about you.。
I mean, can you imagine if we go to someone, "Pray for me.。
I've been so selfish.。
Pray for me.。
I've been so prideful.。
I kept on thinking how much better I am than my co-worker or somebody at school.。
Pray for me because I've not been appreciating my parents.。
I just find them to be annoying.。
Can you pray for me?"。
Or for those people who think maybe there are situations where you have done nothing。
wrong, right?。
And can you pray for me because I can't forgive this person who has hurt me?。
Can you pray for me?。
I can't love my enemy.。
I always think, you know, what if we prayed like that?。
Well, according to the Bible, God's going to heal us.。
And according to this passage, the prayer of the righteous one is powerful and effective.。
Maybe the reason that our prayers haven't been that powerful and effective is because。
we haven't done what it says.。
We haven't confessed our sins because most of the time we're on the other side, right?。
And so sometimes I imagine, you know, if God looked down and there were two churches, okay?。
There's one that grumbles, complains, and is never satisfied.。
And then there's this other one that just keeps on praying, "Help me, God.。
I want to value others more than myself.。
I want to love those that I find hard to love."。
What will that look like?。
I think we'll be healed of our sickness, our situations would turn around, and life would。
never be the same again, and God will open doors.。
I want to share with you that as a prayer-centered church, we need to confess our sins to each。
other, not necessarily the person that you've sinned against.。
And now that's not to say, you know, come up and get the microphone and start telling。
everybody you've robbed the bank yesterday, right?。
No.。
But find the trusted people.。
Tell them.。
Let them pray for you.。
Be transformed in the process.。
Pray for one another.。
And we will see that God will heal us.。
And in 2 Chronicles 7, 14 to 15, it says, "If my people who are called by my name will。
humble themselves and pray, and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will。
hear from heaven, and I will forgive their sin, and will heal their land.。
Now my eyes will be open and my ears attentive to the prayers offered in this place."。
Can you imagine how much more God will do and would do for us if we did what the Scripture。
said?。
Let us be this prayer sent to church starting today, you know, next time we have Klan, next。
time we have small group, practice it.。
Now I just want to make a note, you know, that's not to say we can't share some of our。
emotions or anguish that we have.。
We can, but don't stay there.。
Go to the next step.。
Yeah, maybe you're very angry at someone and we don't want to suppress it, but after you。
express that, you know, go to the next step, confess our sins with each other and pray。
for one another.。
Now the third passage that I do want to share before we get here, I know you guys start。
reading once I turn the page.。
So the third passage I want to share with you is from 1 Samuel, chapter 1.。
Now there was a certain man named Okana who has two wives.。
One bears children and the other one does not, and the other one is called Hana.。
And so she was constantly being provoked by the wife that has children.。
And so year after year she would pray, "Oh Lord, you know, give me a child, give me a。
child."。
But the Lord did not open her womb so she did not have children.。
And so at this time when they were making sacrifices to the Lord, Hana was praying in。
her heart again, just asking God to give her a child.。
And so because she was mumbling and crying, then the priest Eli thought that she was drunk.。
And so this is how she replied to him.。
"Not so, my Lord," Hana replied.。
"I am a woman who is deeply troubled.。
I've not been drinking wine or beer.。
I was pouring out my soul to the Lord.。
Do not take your servant for a wicked woman.。
I've been praying here out of my great anguish and grief."。
Eli answered, "Go in peace and may the God of Israel grant you what you have asked Him."。
And she said, is it still here?。
Okay.。
And she said, "May your servant find favor in your eyes."。
Then she went her way and ate something and her face was no longer downcast.。
Now in this story, it really tells us that there will be times when we've prayed for。
something for a very long time.。
I mean, long is very subjective.。
Some of us, two days is very long.。
For others, months are very long.。
And for others, years are very long.。
And so we just become sorrowful and even to the point of despair because the Lord is just。
seem like He's not doing anything.。
And I've actually heard people, maybe including myself at some point too, just felt like I。
want to die.。
Why?。
Because I've been waiting for some significant person to appear in my life and it hasn't。
happened yet for the last 20 years, you know?。
And you know, we do get discouraged, right?。
Or there's this dream job that I've been trying to go to and just get there, but all the doors。
have been shut like forever, as tight as it can be.。
Or someone really wants a child and haven't had the chance to get that yet.。
Or a sickness or something else.。
And we just pray and pray and pray.。
And what do we do?。
When we are alone doing that, we get despair to a point where we might not even want to。
live on.。
And so our third point is that as a prayer-centered church, we need to encourage one another.。
Notice that when Hannah was praying by herself, she was downcast.。
But the moment that the priest, Eli, told her, "May the Lord grant you what you have。
asked for," she was again lifted up.。
She was enlightened.。
She's like, "Yes, I remember the Lord."。
And so the Lord opened up her womb and she was able to conceive and she had a son called。
Samuel.。
And so what we see here is we should not be doing this on our own.。
We need to be encouraged and we need to encourage one another.。
We need to tell the person, "Keep going.。
Lord loves you and he's going to grant you what you want."。
Now we might say, "What if he never does?"。
That's not the point.。
The point is, do you have faith to go on?。
Do you have faith that even if he doesn't, that he will give you whatever it is that。
is best for you?。
And so when we pray, I mean, even when Hannah, when she was no longer downcast and she ate。
the food, she doesn't know if she's going to get a baby or not, right?。
But because of that encouragement, she was able to press on just to go a little further.。
Sometimes I've seen on Facebook, there's like a little picture.。
Well, there's many pictures, but this particular one that I saw where there were two diamond。
diggers, have you seen that one?。
There was one on top, one at the bottom, and they dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig.。
And then we see that the diamonds are only inches away for both of them.。
And one person decides to leave and the other one kept on going.。
And sometimes I feel like when we encourage one another, it might just be that another。
inch to go.。
And then we will see the Lord delivering us, just like Hannah right here.。
So I really pray that, you know, hope that we become a prayer-centered church.。
Let us encourage one another.。
And I mean, for some of you who might know that my mother has been fighting lung cancer。
for some time now, it's been three years since the relapse of cancer.。
She's right here.。
Hello, mommy.。
I love you.。
And for the last year and a half, her cancer index has started to climb from 2.0 or 2.。
something, 3, 3.。
something, 4, and then it kept going.。
And then two months ago, it was at 16.。
Okay.。
And it was definitely not the direction that we wanted to go at all.。
And honestly, each month I have to tell you when I go with her and the numbers go up,。
you know, I mean, we all pretend it's okay.。
You know, everything's going to be fine.。
But there's all this turmoil that's just going inside.。
We keep on thinking, oh my goodness, like, how's this going to end?。
But we just kept on praying.。
And you know, I told my clan, like my small group about it.。
And I told many of you that asked about it.。
And I was so glad that I didn't have to walk through it alone.。
Because there were so many of you that would come to me and say, "Hey, how's your mom?。
I've been praying for her."。
And you know, for me, that was such great encouragement.。
I bring that back to my mom and I say, "Hey, you know, so and so have been praying for。
you."。
And she's like, "Who's that?"。
So I have to explain, oh, you know, that person is that person's that person.。
But never mind.。
What it was, it gave us encouragement.。
It felt like, you know, we weren't alone and we were loved by many of you, all of you actually.。
And actually, just to tell you the good news is, last month, we started a new drug for。
her.。
And after using it for one month's time only, her cancer index has dropped from 16 all the。
way to 7 in just one month's time.。
Yes.。
It was like one of the best gifts that God gave us.。
And not only that, did you know that this drug, how much it cost?。
Three, oh, no, I did it wrong.。
$36,000 a month.。
And that's only at the public hospital.。
So if you get it at the private, it's $60,000 a month.。
Okay.。
And because of the prayers, because of the grace of God, because we were connected, because。
we told people about it, we were able to source it at the same manufacturer, the same drug,。
same effect, because it is the same drug, for $7,000 a month.。
And I just want to let you know that God is here.。
And when we pray, maybe it's days, maybe it's weeks has gone by, but keep praying, because。
God will deliver us.。
God will deliver us.。
But don't do it alone.。
I don't think it would have been quite the same journey if I were the only one who prayed。
with my mom privately about this.。
But I do believe, because all of your prayers and all of your love for us helped us in the。
process, and God listened to all our prayers.。
And so I want to encourage you, and I'm actually encouraging myself too, that prayer is not。
something like, "Oh, we do because the Bible tells us to."。
It's something powerful.。
It's meant to heal your sickness.。
It's meant to change the situation that you're in.。
But don't do it alone.。
Let us walk together, because there's power, and that's why God gave us this community。
to do it together.。
And so now I just wanted to challenge you, challenge myself, to be a prayer-centered。
church.。
And how do we do that?。
Really is to set aside some time, you know, when we have prayer meetings.。
I'm not expecting 10% attendance next time.。
I'm expecting 100% attendance.。
Come, set aside that time, pray together, and let us see God's hand and what our faith。
is going to change.。
And at the same time, when you're in a small group, practice it each week, you know, going。
to your small group, confessing your sins.。
"Oh my goodness, I was so prideful this week, you know, help me."。
And by confessing it, it's a real humble process, because we're no longer just thinking it in。
my head and still trying to pretend to be someone that got everything together, but。
we're actually being authentic.。
"Yeah, I got issues.。
I've got problems.。
Can you help me pray?"。
It's a humbling process for us.。
And the third thing really is just to be someone who encourages someone else and be open to。
be encouraged.。
So this is what a prayer-centered church is about.。
So now I actually want to invite all of you to turn to one or two people.。
Okay, don't start moving yet, okay?。
I know this is like, you know, when we used to do high school project, right?。
The moment we say get into groups, you're like, "Oh, who am I going to be with?"。
But just hold on.。
Is what we want to do really is just spend a moment, you know, maybe three to five minutes。
where we pray to become this prayer-centered church, okay?。
Pray that we'll set aside time and grow in our faith.。
Pray that we can be bold enough to confess our sins.。
We're humble enough to go to the people that we love and say, "I can't do this.。
I messed up."。
And then pray that we can encourage and be someone that allows others to encourage us.。
So now we'll have a few minutes and then I'll come back up to do a rapid prayer and our。
worship team will lead us into a response song in just a moment.。
Yeah, so gather in two people or three people.。
And for those of you who are online joining us, if there's someone next to you, please。
pray with them.。
If not, pray in your heart as well.。
[Praying in Tongues]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
[Music]。
Let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for giving us Jesus.。
And we thank you that you've given us the church.。
It's not a building.。
It's not a place that we go to.。
But it's full of your people, the people that loves you, the people that you love, the people。
that are full of your spirit.。
And we pray, Father, that as we learn and continue to grow to be this prayer-centered。
church, that, Father, your spirit continues to guide us.。
How do we have the right attitude?。
How do we have the right habits so that we are aligned with your heart?。
We know that you love the church and that you've prepared him for Jesus and for his。
return.。
We're meant to be his bride.。
And so, Father, we just pray that you'll continue to guide us, to help us, so that we can know。
your heart and be the kind of Christians that you have created us to be.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
Amen.。
