- Good evening, everyone.。
I'm really glad that we can just worship together online.。
And I even get my own chair for the very first time.。
And while just letting you know that I won't be able to see your faces, so if you're falling。
asleep, I won't know at all.。
But I'm imagining that you're sitting at the edge of your seat.。
So let's hope that imagination is the reality.。
But I just wanted to say that it's just great to be able to worship together.。
And for the last two weeks, we have been looking at the sermon series, which is on health for。
all and all for God.。
And we had two excellent sermons by Pastor James and Pastor John.。
And if you've missed it, please go back to it.。
And we're just gonna continue this week on Break the Power of the Past.。
Now before we actually dig into any sermons, I do wanna tell a short story.。
So there was someone and he went to a party.。
You know how parties are, there's lots of food.。
And so he goes to the kitchen and he sees this hostess.。
And the hostess begins to prepare this meat.。
Do we have this meat up?。
Oh, yeah, we do have this meat up.。
And so he begins to cut the sides, just cut the two sides flat.。
And he puts it in this oven that's huge.。
And so this guest has no idea why is the hostess doing that?。
I mean, the meat is barely enough for everybody and she's already cutting it off.。
And so she goes and asks the hostess, why is it that you're cutting off the sides?。
And so to his surprise, the hostess says, well, I don't really know, but my mom has。
been doing it all along.。
Now, interesting enough, her mom was also at the party.。
So he goes over to her and asks, Auntie, so what is it that makes you wanna cut off the。
sides 'cause obviously the oven's quite big?。
And interestingly enough, she answers the same way, well, I don't really know, but that's。
what my mother has always done.。
And so an opportunity arise and the whole family and this guest got to go to the hostess。
grandma's place, which is actually at a cottage.。
And so they were there and this guest remembers this interesting scene.。
So he goes and asks grandma, why is it that you cut off the size of this meat?。
And she's like, oh, well, it's very simple, come in my kitchen.。
So they all went to the kitchen and lo and behold, they found that the oven was very。
small.。
And so grandma says, well, my oven's too small and I could never fit the entire piece of。
meat in, so I always had to chop it off.。
And so, I mean, that's actually a perfect illustration of what we mean when we say the。
power of the past.。
And sometimes we don't even know why we do certain things.。
And it's okay if things are perfect or if they're rosy, right?。
But what if the things that we're going through has negative impacts in our lives?。
Then really we need to look into the past and make sure that in Christ, we get to break。
that bondage or that chain.。
And so today, this is exactly what we're going to talk about.。
And so when we talk about what paths are we actually trying to break?。
Now there are great, wonderful traditions, blessings, and even inheritance that we would。
receive from our parents and also from previous generations.。
So if you're a kind, loving person because your father and mother are that way and that。
you have learned it through experience to be such a person, well, we don't want you。
to break that.。
Or if your parents have a condo or two, you know, it's pretty expensive in Hong Kong,。
right?。
That they want to give you as an inheritance, well, we don't want you to break that either.。
So today we're just going to focus on the past in terms of the sins that have been more。
or less passed on or the strongholds, which includes beliefs and values that do not align。
with the Bible.。
And the third thing is ungodly characters that we have somehow developed or have got。
that passed me on.。
So just want to say that we're going to focus on the negatives.。
So I'm not saying that the great things are not in our minds, but this won't be the focus。
for today.。
But so how are these things formed?。
And you know, with the earlier illustration, we kind of see that first is from the family。
of origin and second are from events and also past experiences that we have.。
And actually from the author of Emotionally Healthy Church, we actually realized that。
in order to be healthy churches, people actually need to understand how their past have affected。
their present ability to love Christ and others.。
And it's important that they've realized that from scripture and life, that an intricate,。
complex relationship exists between the kind of person they are today and their past.。
And numerous external forces may shape us, but the family we have grown in is the primary,。
I mean, except in rare circumstances, the most powerful system that will shape and influence。
who we are.。
So if you have brothers or sisters, or if you have young children at home, or if you're。
going to be future parents, and also for yourself, you want to make sure that we're all getting。
this together.。
So now let us look at a character from the Bible, from the book of Genesis, which is。
Abraham.。
Now Abraham is a great man of faith, but at the same time, he also has some character。
flaws and sins.。
And if we look at Genesis chapter 12, we're going to see that God at the very beginning,。
he promises him an inheritance.。
He says, "I will make you into a great nation.。
I will bless you.。
I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing."。
And other nations will also be blessed by him.。
However, in the same chapter, when we get to a famine where they had to go to Egypt。
for food, we already see that he tells the first lie that we're going to see, which is。
when the Egyptians were there, he told his wife, Sarai, at that point, which later would。
be called Sarah, that they are going to kill me for your sake.。
So just say to them that you are my sister, and they will treat me well, and my life would。
be spared.。
And so Sarah was taken to Pharaoh's palace, while Abraham strategizes, and it worked,。
because he then received a lot of cows and goats, and also these servants, in which became。
his wealth.。
And so as we read on, of course, Pharaoh finds out, because God was protecting him.。
And after confronting him, Pharaoh let them go.。
So we thought, okay, maybe it was just a one-time thing.。
But does anybody remember if he did it again?。
Okay, I suspect that you're nodding your head behind the screen there.。
Yes, so he did it again.。
And in Genesis chapter 20, the same thing happened.。
There was another famine.。
Instead of going to Egypt, they went to King Abimelech.。
And in that moment, he also told the other people, and also his wife, tell them that。
you're my sister.。
And he told everyone, she is my sister.。
And again, Sarah must be beautiful, because again, the king took her into the palace,。
and God had to intervene before the king would confront Abraham again.。
So what we see is, even though we have a song that sings, "Father Abraham," okay, I'm not。
going to go down that route, that we only talk about the great things, but he also has。
these sins and these character traits that aren't so pretty.。
And when we look at it, he really was quite selfish.。
He was putting his wife's life on the line.。
She could be raped, and there could be other things that happened to her for his own benefit.。
And at the same time, he was cheating, and he was deceiving.。
And we thought that it might just end there.。
But does it end there?。
No, I know you're shaking your head back there.。
No, what happens?。
So he has a son.。
Well, he has two sons, Ishmael from the Egyptian slave, and then he also has Isaac.。
And does Isaac do the same thing?。
Yes, he does.。
And where is that?。
Well, in Genesis chapter 26, we see that in the same way that there was a famine, that。
they again went to the same king, Abimelech.。
I don't know, this king must be nuts, driven by the same family and being tricked twice,。
that he said the same thing, that Rebecca, which is his wife, he claims to be his sister,。
because he was afraid that his life would be taken.。
So what we see is that one kind of sin, lying and cheating and deceiving and having this。
selfishness about just thinking about himself, continues on in this family.。
And you know, it doesn't stop there either.。
So it continues to go on.。
David has two sons and they're twins, Esau and Jacob.。
And we see that in his old age when he wanted to bless them, but his eyesight was actually。
failing him at that point.。
And what we find is that Jacob again, deceives his father.。
And this deceiving, this cheating continues on.。
And for those who have read Genesis know the story quite well, where he wanted the first。
born blessing so badly that his mother schemed it where they would pretend to be Esau to。
receive that blessing.。
And so it continues.。
Does it stop there?。
No, I know you're tired now.。
You're probably not shaking your head.。
I'll shake it for you.。
And so no, right?。
The next one that we find is that Jacob has 12 sons.。
And of course his favorite one was Joseph.。
And so his brother then schemed, deceived, cheated and decided that we're going to murder。
him.。
But nah, because if we murder him, we're not going to get any benefit.。
Remember this family is all about benefits, right?。
So what do they do?。
Well, let's sell him because at least we can get something.。
So it runs in the family again, not only deceiving, not only being selfish, now sibling rivalries。
we see and also for money.。
So all of these we see are sins that even in this family, and we know how blessed Abraham。
and his descendants are, have it.。
I mean, in the same way, you and I are also in this kind of position.。
I mean, we might have family, we might come from families that are divorced or single。
parent and that has a negative effect on us, our security, our feeling of being confident。
or there may be other things.。
For example, maybe there's a sickness that runs in the family or a continual habitual。
addiction that your family might be struggling with and you eventually find yourself kind。
of in the same position.。
So today we really want to just break all of those things, break from the past.。
And so when we read on in Exodus 20, this is where we see the Lord telling us where。
does this all kind of generational curses seem to be coming from.。
And so in verse one to five, it literally says that, and God spoke all these words.。
This is where they were on Mount Sinai and Moses was receiving the 10 commandments from。
the Lord.。
And he says, "I am the Lord, your God, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land。
of slavery.。
You shall have no other gods before me.。
You shall not make for yourself an image in the form of anything."。
In verse five, "You shall not bow down to them or worship them for I, the Lord, your。
God, am a jealous God, punishing the children for the sin of their parents to the third。
and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing love to a thousand generations。
of those who love me and keep my commandments."。
And when we read this at first, we see, wow, God's great.。
He loves us so much that he's going to show love to us over a thousand generation.。
But there seems to be a line that we're a little bit disturbed where it says that God's。
going to punish the children for the sins of their parents to the third and fourth generation.。
And sometimes we think in our mind, well, that's unfair.。
Well, I didn't do anything wrong.。
Why am I being punished for something that someone did?。
Well, if we look closely at the word punish in Hebrew, it actually means kind of like。
visiting, or in the ESV version is like visiting the inequity of the fathers on the children.。
Well, really what this means is that God's not actively punishing us for something that。
our forefathers did.。
But he's saying that the consequences of what sins or sinful nature, the things that they've。
done in the past continues to be naturally manifested into our lives.。
I mean, one simple one would be how Adam and Eve had ate the forbidden food where they。
were not supposed to eat from the tree of good and evil, but they did.。
As much as God loves us, there's a consequence of sin, which is death, and it continues on,。
and that's why we also need to die.。
So we see that it's not a punishing way, but it's the consequence of what happens.。
And so I want to share as well that actually in my life, I have definitely found there。
are so many paths that were entangling me in terms of my emotional and physical well-being,。
and one of that was actually suicidal thoughts.。
And the truth be told is that about 10 years ago, and I think at some point I've shared。
with some of you that I had suicidal thoughts.。
And I did mention that I don't think I would have ever taken any action just because the。
thought of that is quite scary itself.。
However, that thought actually made me seem demotivated, and I will wake up every day。
not having the meaning to go on, not wanting to go on, and always praying the prayer, "God,。
please take me home.。
Take me because I can't do this."。
And it was a hopeless and also helpless state of mind.。
And when I looked back, I realized that not only haunted me, but actually it also haunted。
my family.。
One of it being the first was my aunt.。
Actually I've never met her, but I heard that after she gave birth to three children and。
having a really tough time in her life, she committed suicide.。
She jumped off the building, and I mean, it's in the family.。
And so when my grandma found out, she got really depressed as well, and she wasn't able。
to eat much.。
And actually quite soon after my aunt's death, she passed away.。
And actually just three years ago, actually, my uncle also committed suicide.。
He actually walked out into the ocean, and he actually don't know how to swim.。
And so eventually he was found, and I don't want to go to too much details, but what I。
do want to say is that there is a strong power that continues to hinder us.。
And if we don't look into it, it can easily actually come into our lives.。
And when I had the chance to sit with counselors and also read books and listen to sermons,。
I realized that, I mean, what was really causing these suicidal thoughts or even actions?。
I realized, at least for me, I can't speak for them, is that one thing, it was caused。
by low self-esteem and the idea that I can't really make any changes, nothing I do.。
I mean, for one thing, nothing I do is good enough, and the other thing is I can't really。
do anything to change what's happening.。
And I realized, I mean, these things are actually more common than I know.。
I mean, many people also suffer from this.。
And so when I think even in a deeper sense, I mean, where did all these things come from?。
And when I go deeper into it, I realize, well, it's actually the belittling that I have experienced,。
and I realized that when I was younger, when I made mistakes, I would be often told that,。
"Oh, you're stupid, and you can't even do anything right."。
And so these voices from actually my parents would continue to repeat in my mind as well.。
And so I would have very low self-esteem, and my family's not big on praising or affirmation,。
and may easily compare me with other people as well.。
And because the other thing that really caused it, I think, is the idea, I mean, is the fact。
that my dad also passed away when I was really young, even though I've prayed hard for him。
not to be.。
And so I think this all like hopelessness and the hopeness, continued to be in my life,。
and I realized if I had never looked into it, it would affect me.。
Now, when I say all these things, I don't want to say like, "Parents are bad," and I。
don't want to say, "My parents are bad," because I love them, and they're so good to me.。
But what I do want to say is we are imperfect people, and there are things that we don't。
know are sinful that we continue to do.。
And so really it is my prayer and also my hope that all of us, because of our brokenness,。
somewhere along the line, there is something that is still hindering us.。
And today I'm sharing that, I guess, quite out loudly, because I feel like someone is。
also suffering from these things or other similar things, and I don't want us to overlook。
that.。
And so, I mean, after all this, I suppose the question really is, I mean, how, or how。
do we overcome these pasts that we've just talked about, we've established where they。
possibly might be coming from?。
And the Bible actually tells us in John 3, 7 that we are to be born again.。
Of course, born again has different meanings in the context.。
I mean, one of those is that we need to be radically new.。
We need to be make anew into a different person.。
One that is not only from our generational past, but one that's absolutely new from the。
Word of God.。
And so we become this new creation stated also in 2 Corinthians 5, 17, that the old。
is gone and we're this new creation.。
And so how do we actually achieve that?。
Well, the first thing that I want to share with you is to identify and connect.。
I mean, looking for that pattern.。
I mean, what has been happening in your life?。
Have you continued to see patterns of failure in the same area?。
Or have you noticed that you've been depressed over the same things?。
What are they?。
And not only do you look within your life for that pattern, what about generational。
patterns?。
Do you see anything that's happening?。
Maybe you had parents that were single parent and you're at the verge of thinking about。
divorce or maybe you had people that continue to belittle you and you find that you're belittling。
other people around you.。
I mean, what is it?。
Is there a pattern that you're seeing?。
So first identify it.。
And we can do that by drawing out a genogram.。
In a moment we'll show you kind of what that looks like, but we won't actually go through。
it.。
But to give you a sense of what it is.。
Or we can talk to someone.。
Talk to someone that really knows you.。
Because you know what?。
Your blind spot and my blind spot isn't so minimal to other people.。
It's very obvious to other people.。
And they can definitely tell us where it is that we are repeating those patterns.。
And also we can connect to the past.。
What that means is we need to find out where the root of the problem is.。
I mean, even if I know that, oh, I'm suffering from low self-image or I'm suffering from。
a certain kind of addiction, but where is it coming from?。
That's also very important.。
So for us to connect the dots and then we can have a chance for Christ to help us, to。
liberate us.。
And the third thing really is to accept it.。
Because you know, many a times after finding out what it is, even connecting to the root,。
there might be a part of us that wants to reject it and say, "No, you know what?。
I am not a narcissist.。
What are you talking about?。
I'm not selfish."。
And so sometimes we might just don't want to accept it.。
And so the very first part for us is to do that.。
And so we're going to show you what a genogram looks like.。
And there are lots more information where you can go online, Google it, and see how。
you can do it, maybe with a few friends or with your clans in your small group.。
And you can definitely find out to see those patterns.。
And so the next one I want to show you is how do we identify them?。
So I have a list here of things that you can identify for yourself and also for your family。
together, maybe you can do it with your family.。
I mean, has there been lying going on, cheating?。
I mean, every now and then I found that, you know, I might be, I'm not cheating, cheating,。
but there was one time I didn't bring my app.。
And so I can't do the leave home safe.。
And I wanted to go in from the back door, that kind of thing.。
So are there any suicidal thoughts or divorce or jealousy?。
I mean, do you see yourself comparing to someone all the time?。
And do you have low self-esteem?。
Are you arrogant or anxious all the time?。
Are you depressed?。
Do you have bipolar?。
Are you obsessed with certain things?。
I mean, sometimes it can be things that are a lot lighter, like being impatient is also。
a characteristic that isn't so great, or lazy, narcissists, being selfish, or it might be。
that you're very, you know, you can give up very easily when hardship comes.。
Or you find yourself blaming other people instead of taking responsibility.。
Or there might be a sickness that's being passed on.。
And there's something that you can do about it.。
Or not being content, or have addictions, or belittling, being abusive, comparing, or。
irresponsible.。
Now, this definitely isn't a full list, but it's a good list to start.。
And I also came up with a list that, you know, we can start to connect the dots.。
I mean, where did it come from?。
I mean, did we have overprotective families?。
Did we have a family where there were verbal or physical abuse?。
Or maybe you were never complimented by your parents.。
Maybe you were always compared to, or had divorced parents, or substance addiction,。
or there's some sort of love for money.。
And it could be because it came from a time when your family went through poverty.。
And it can be a role model of just seeing who they are, and you've kind of copied that。
yourself.。
And there's belittling, or there's loss of loved ones.。
And that's really scarring you and making you insecure or scared to love again.。
Or have you been bullied, rather, at school, at home?。
Are there sickness?。
Or maybe you were raised up by a helper instead of your parents.。
And maybe you didn't have much discipline.。
Or maybe the other way, you had too much discipline.。
And their family habits or traumatic experiences.。
Or you might even have a disabled sibling.。
And that can cause all sorts of emotional unhealthy states.。
So I mean, again, this is a list, really, for us to start.。
Because I don't want this sermon-- I want this sermon to be a really practical one,。
where after we hear about it, we really begin to think what those things are.。
And the second thing that I really want to say is that we need to own it.。
Because it's easy for us to kind of shift blame and just say, well, you know, I'm like。
this because my parents were saying, well, my grandma was like that, my grandpa.。
And so the situation's like this.。
And whenever we blame or shift the responsibility, you know what that is?。
It means that we don't need to do anything about it.。
And the only time that we'll do something about it is if we own it and say, you know。
what?。
This has happened.。
My parents didn't know, neither did my parents' parents.。
And you know what?。
It's going to stop here right now at my generation.。
And I'm determined to do that.。
And if we have this kind of determination, and we can go to God and say, God, help us.。
I see this passing on, this sin or this ungodly character, this stronghold.。
And I want it to stop now.。
And that's where it's going to work.。
Because we are taking ownership.。
We're doing something about it.。
We're going to God with it.。
And the last one is that we need to relearn.。
Now there's a Cantonese phrase, not phrase, word that I really like, which is "ticking,。
ticking."。
Okay, you're borrowing the mirror.。
I don't know how to translate this.。
So really, it's like we're learning from what other people did that didn't work.。
So if you're seeing your parents were doing this or your grandma, and that didn't work。
out well, well, you know what?。
Let's borrow the mirror, which means let's learn from them.。
We don't have to walk into a ditch before we know it's dark and cold, right?。
We can just see it.。
Oh, that's not, that's dark and cold.。
Let me do something else.。
And so the idea is to learn, relearn something that we find that is crucial.。
And the next thing is, we have talked about this before, which is don't do it alone.。
You know, we have plans here where it's a safe place for you to really do this together,。
to find out what it is and to support one another.。
And I'm so thankful that I got to speak with the people at the Wellbeing Champions that。
were hosted by Christina and Charlotte last year.。
And a whole bunch of us went through the training.。
And they've volunteered, many of them saying that they would be glad that they would be。
our first touch points.。
But this is something that's on your heart.。
You want to talk about it first with us.。
And again, I mean, we're not trained professionals, but we're trained to listen.。
We're trained to point you in the right direction.。
So if that's you, please don't hesitate.。
And I want to say you can call us, but there's an email here, kfci@kongfeng.org.。
And we really just want to be your first point of touch point.。
Yeah.。
And also let your community reparent you.。
What does that mean?。
Reparenting means maybe you had some really harsh parents and they've never complimented。
you.。
But you know what?。
Let your community be that group of people where they can compliment you.。
They can cheer you on.。
They can praise you for the little things or the big achievements that you've done in。
your life.。
And also maybe you had parents that were abusive or other parents that didn't know how to support。
you and listen to you.。
Well, this community, we will learn together how that works.。
I mean, we can learn to listen to you and you can learn to listen to other people as。
well.。
So as a community, we can reparent each other.。
Whatever it is that we didn't know and we didn't get a chance to experience, we can。
do that.。
And so you see, I really just want to kind of wrap up with Genesis 50.。
This is actually after all the lying and cheating and deceiving and Joseph, which is the second。
youngest son of Jacob.。
He was sold into slavery and yet he became the second in command.。
And he was the one that helped a lot of people because he was the one that stored the grain。
during the famine where everybody could be fed.。
And so this is what he said at the end in the hindsight.。
He said, "You intended to harm me."。
And when he said you, he meant the brothers intended to harm me.。
But God intended it for good to accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many。
lives.。
And so I just wanted to kind of end with that note where God can take whatever your family。
origin sins or passed down sins or ungodly character or strongholds and he can redeem。
it.。
And when he redeems it, it's not only for you, but for the blessings of other people.。
And I believe that personally, I had also had that privilege to be reparent by God himself.。
And in Christ, he has the power to break every chain and every sin or strongholds that we。
have.。
It's not just our generational, rather it's our experiences of pain or loss.。
And he is able to do that.。
And I want to say now that when I make a mistake, instead of feeling like I'm stupid and I can't。
do anything right, I'll be like, "Okay, that's a mistake.。
What can I learn from it?。
I'll do a better job next time."。
And I have the confidence that God's going to be with me.。
He's going to help me to make those changes.。
And instead of being scared that anything that I do is not going to have an effect in。
the future, it won't change, I don't have that thought anymore.。
I know that if I go to God with my situation, he will always help me in a way that is God-glorifying.。
And I believe that he has redeemed me and that from this generation, from my generation,。
that there will be at least cut from my family any suicidal thoughts.。
And so I really see God being that redeemer and he is here not only for me and many other。
people, but he is here for you.。
So let us just really soak in how God's redeeming power can really break every chain and that。
he is here to break the power of the past for you.。
So let us pray together.。
Dear Heavenly Father, we just want to thank you for your redemptive power, that it was。
because of what was done on the cross, that we are redeemed people, that no matter what。
Satan, what evil spirits have desires for us to devour us, to kill and destroy and to。
steal, that his plans will never prevail because you are here in our lives.。
And we pray, Father, that you continue to help us to break every single chain, break。
every single sin that has been long going in our generations before us to stop because。
of you.。
And Father, we thank you for your redemptive power and your loving grace for us.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray.。
Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
