Hi, everybody.。
Hope you're all doing well.。
We're starting, we've been starting this new series last week.。
It's on 1 Peter chapter 2.。
And it's going to be a little bit of an interactive sermon today.。
So get ready to type.。
The first thing I want you to type in the chat is what comes up?。
What's the first thing that comes up on your mind when it says God's grace and submission?。
What's the first thing that comes to mind when it says God's grace and submission?。
You can type anything you want.。
Jesus.。
Yeah, very good.。
Very good.。
The cross.。
Absolutely.。
Grace and submission.。
Obedience.。
Very good.。
From Anshan.。
Yeah.。
Anything else?。
What comes to mind?。
Letting go of ourselves.。
That's a very good one, right?。
Letting go to receive God's grace and also giving ourselves to God.。
Absolutely.。
Salvation.。
Very good.。
Any other, any other, any other things that come to mind when we think of God's grace。
and submission?。
Okay.。
Those are very good.。
So last week, Pastor James did an excellent talk on teaching us what it means to have。
living hope.。
And last week we saw, right, we have inheritance because we are now part of God's family.。
And because of this inheritance, we also have reward.。
In verse six to seven, Pastor James talked about the suffering that we also have.。
And when we have this suffering, God refines us so that we become more like him and we。
receive salvation through Jesus.。
And he is the one that rescues us.。
And so today we are talking about the next part, which is grace and submission, grace。
and submission.。
So there's four things that we're going to talk about today in terms of grace and submission.。
The first is that we are part of the same family.。
That's right.。
Look at the people beside you.。
We're part of the same family.。
Like it or not, we're part of the same family.。
The second thing we're going to learn about is we are stones in the same house.。
We are priests in the same temple, number three.。
And number four, we are citizens of the same nation.。
So we're going to read the passage for today.。
So verse 22 here, "Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere。
brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart.。
Because you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living。
and abiding word of God.。
So put away all malice and deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slender like newborn infants,。
long for the pure spiritual milk that by it you may grow up into salvation.。
If indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good."。
And so we see here in the second part of chapter one that Peter is confirming that we have。
been born again, right?。
We have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable.。
What Jesus has done on the cross for us is that now we no longer live for the earthly。
and the temporary, but now we live for the eternal and for the heavenly things.。
And so we have been born again, as we see in the next slide, that we are part of the。
same family.。
We've been born again to the same family.。
And Jesus also does that to us, for us through the living and abiding word of God.。
His word is truth.。
What he says, he will accomplish.。
And his promise was that if we believe in our heart that Jesus Christ is Lord, we are。
now part of his family.。
We are a child of God.。
And so this is what God has done for us.。
He's died on the cross for us so that we are born again.。
We are now born for the eternal, for the heavenly, and we are born through the word of God.。
It says here, through the living and abiding word of God, that Jesus is the word, the way,。
the life, and the truth.。
And no one comes to the Father except through him.。
And so that's what God has done.。
And so this is God's part.。
That part is grace.。
What we need to do is we need to submit.。
And Peter tells us here that we need to purify ourselves, right?。
Because we've been born again, we need to pure ourselves.。
No more slander, no more malice.。
Do good things to each other.。
We need to love each other earnestly.。
We need to put away sin.。
And a great example of this is the prodigal son, right?。
When he recognized, I've done wrong things.。
I can go back to my father if I turn from my ways of wild living, of throwing away all。
my inheritance.。
He had to put away his sins first.。
As we see in the next slide, the prodigal son returns to the father.。
He's willing to obey.。
And what does the father do?。
The father runs to him with open arms.。
He sees his son in the distant and he runs to him and he receives the father and receives。
his son, the prodigal son.。
And so that is what we need to do as we are part of the same family.。
Yes, we've received God's grace already, but we also need to do our part to obey, to love。
one another, to put away sin.。
And the last part that Peter also said is that we need to long for pure spiritual milk。
so that we will be able to grow.。
Now a lot of us in this KFC family has had newborn babies.。
Praise the Lord, right?。
We have Josh and Mel.。
We have Sam and Rachel.。
We have Rocky and Adrian.。
We have lots of people that we've been blessed as this KFCI family with newborn babies.。
We've had people with new newborn dogs, right?。
And puppies, Vincent and Agnes, you know, dogs are a special part of our family as well.。
What's amazing about these babies, these puppies, is that they don't have to think twice about。
spiritual, about milk, right?。
They long for milk.。
They know they need it, right?。
The babies aren't like, "Oh yeah, I don't know.。
I don't know if I want milk today.。
You know, I might not feel like milk today."。
No, they long for milk.。
You know, Agnes' puppy, it longs for food, right?。
It doesn't have to think twice about it.。
And so if we are doing the right things, we will naturally long for spiritual milk.。
We will long to grow in the Word of God through prayer, through fellowship, through our church。
community.。
And so that is what we need to do as we submit to the Lord.。
And so the first thing that we see in grace and submission is that we are part of the。
same family.。
The second part of it is that we are stones in the same house.。
I want you to type in the chat, what is the biggest thing that you've built?。
It could be a model car.。
It could be a snowman.。
It could be a sandcastle.。
What's the biggest thing that you've built?。
It could be a, I know Joseph has built a lot of things, right?。
What's the biggest thing that you've built?。
Come on, don't take too long.。
What's the biggest thing you've built?。
It could be something small.。
It could be something big.。
What's the biggest thing that you've built?。
A wall.。
Okay.。
All right.。
Hopefully, hopefully we're building bridges, not walls.。
Ikea furniture.。
That's right.。
A family.。
Oh, very good.。
We're getting very, very spiritual here.。
A Lego boat.。
That's super cool.。
I wonder what boat it was.。
All right.。
What else?。
What else do we have?。
A new family.。
Awesome.。
That's great.。
A fort in the woods.。
Oh my.。
I wonder what kind of material you built that fort with.。
Anybody built a snowman or a snow fort or an igloo?。
That's something we like to do in Canada when we have snow.。
All right.。
We're going to read the next passage about how God is building us in the same house.。
Verse four, "As you come to him, a living stone rejected by man, but in the sight of。
God chosen and precious, you yourselves like living stones are being built up as a spiritual。
house to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus。
Christ.。
For it stands in scripture, 'Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen。
and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.'"。
And so we see here that God has built.。
God has built stones that were once rejected, but now chosen and precious.。
Jesus was rejected, but he was chosen by the Father, chosen by the Father, and he himself。
is precious.。
And we are also like those living stones.。
Peter says that we might also be rejected by people or the world, but we were chosen。
and we are also precious according to the Father.。
And he builds us up into a spiritual house, into a spiritual house.。
It's amazing that the Jews, they have the temple, right?。
If you've been to Jerusalem, if you've been to Israel with Pastor John, you would have。
been to this amazing temple, right?。
They think that this wall is part of the temple.。
The Jews have a temple.。
And Jesus says, "We also have a temple."。
And the temple is that we are the body of Christ.。
Our bodies is the temple of God.。
If you've been to Dubai or if you've been to a really tall building and you look up,。
right, as we see, you know, the purge caliph, right, in the next slide, we look up and we're。
just amazed how amazing this building is.。
Imagine that each glass, each metal part, each brick, each component of the purge caliph。
is like us.。
We are being built up into a spiritual house, a living spiritual house.。
Has anybody played Jenga before?。
Everybody loves playing Jenga, right?。
It's an amazing game, right?。
You're taking brick from brick, what you call it, those wooden logs or wooden bricks, right?。
And you're taking it up from the bottom and you're trying to put it onto the top.。
And this Jenga spiritual house is getting bigger and bigger as new people come to know。
Jesus.。
And we have to be very careful because it might tumble, right?。
That's not going to happen in our spiritual house because Jesus is building us up.。
Don't worry, this spiritual house will not collapse because Jesus is the foundation.。
His word is the foundation.。
And so the second thing that we see is God's grace is that we are part of this spiritual。
house that is being built up.。
And we also partake upon it.。
We need to submit to the body of Christ as we are part of his spiritual house.。
And so the next thing we see is that we are priests in the same temple.。
So firstly, we are of the same family.。
The second thing is we are stones of the same house.。
And thirdly, we are priests in the same temple.。
And so let's read the next passage together.。
And you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house to be。
a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God.。
But you are a chosen race, in verse 9, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his。
own possession that you may proclaim his excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into。
his marvelous light.。
So what is a priest?。
You guys can type into the chat, what is a priest?。
What is a royal priesthood?。
Any ideas?。
What is the role or the occupation or the job of a priest?。
What is a priest?。
Any ideas?。
Type in the chat for me.。
What is the role or a job of a priest?。
Okay, Julian, very good.。
He mediates between us and God, one who is set apart, very good, serving God.。
Yeah, these are excellent.。
That is exactly what a priest should do, perform sacrifices as offerings to preach.。
Absolutely.。
These are all what a priest should do.。
And so God's grace is that we have been called to be a holy and royal priesthood.。
Before it was just the line of the Levites, right?。
They, a specific tribe within Israel, they were called to be priests, to be mediators。
between them and the rest of the other tribes.。
Before, they were called to make sacrifices on behalf of the people.。
But now we are called to be a holy and royal priesthood.。
And what Jesus calls us to do, and what Peter specifically calls us to do now is that we。
must offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.。
Let's add to that.。
What do you think are spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ that。
now we as Christians offer?。
Obviously, you know, we're not bringing our goats and our lambs to our online Zoom services。
and offering them as blood sacrifices and sin offerings to the Lord because now we have。
Jesus Christ.。
And so what are spiritual sacrifices that we need to offer?。
That's very good.。
Confession, absolutely.。
Confession, obedience.。
Very good.。
Wow, you guys should be preaching this.。
You know, not me.。
You guys are excellent.。
Yeah, come on.。
Keep adding to that.。
What else?。
What else are spiritual sacrifices that we can offer to the Lord that can be acceptable。
to Him?。
What do you guys think?。
Any others?。
Our own way of doing things.。
That's interesting.。
What do you mean by that, Michelle?。
What do you mean by that?。
Any others?。
Obedience.。
Okay.。
How we live our lives.。
Yes, absolutely.。
Jesus says, or Paul says in Romans 8 that we are living sacrifices.。
Right?。
Worship.。
Absolutely.。
Very good.。
Oh, Anthony, you've been learning a lot in your seminary classes.。
Let's look at the next slide and it'll give us some ways that we can offer sacrifices。
to the Lord.。
Prayer.。
As we pray.。
Right?。
Prayer is a pleasing aroma to the Lord.。
Prayer is our way of saying that we submit to you, Lord.。
That we ask your will to be done.。
As we praise the Lord, just like Paul and the team led us in praise.。
That is offering spiritual sacrifices to the Lord.。
Michelle, you know, she said, obedience.。
And that we need to offer ourselves as living sacrifices.。
We can offer ourselves through time as we serve the Lord.。
Right?。
As we spend time helping those around us.。
Loving our neighbors.。
Honoring our parents.。
We can tithe.。
Right?。
We can offer our offerings of tithe.。
Pastor John said we can offer, you know, through FPS.。
Right?。
That is one of the ways that we can offer spiritual sacrifices to the Lord.。
Our talents, obviously.。
Each of you have been blessed with many talents.。
It could be musical.。
It could be, you know, service.。
Right?。
It could be encouragement.。
It could be our heart.。
Absolutely.。
We can offer our hearts to the Lord as well.。
And we can also offer our testimony as spiritual sacrifice to the Lord.。
Pleasing to him.。
As we share with others what God has done in and through our lives.。
Just like Ken shared today.。
What God has done in and through his life.。
He was once lonely.。
And now he has found a relationship with God and a community with his church.。
Our church.。
And so, number three was that we are a spiritual priest.。
Holy and royal of the same temple.。
And finally, we are citizens of the same nation.。
Citizens of the same nation.。
It's amazing, right?。
That we can be part of the same nation.。
We have, we might all have different passports.。
Right?。
We might have British passports.。
We might have Hong Kong passports.。
I have a Canadian passport.。
Right?。
Some of you have other passports.。
Might be Australian.。
But we are all part of God's family.。
God's nation.。
We have a spiritual passport.。
And we're going to look at the last passage for us today.。
That you are a chosen people.。
A royal priesthood.。
A holy nation.。
God's special possession.。
That you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful。
light.。
Once you were not a people, but now you are a people of God.。
Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.。
And so we see here God's grace in the next slide.。
God's grace is that he has chosen us.。
He has chosen you.。
Me.。
All the people that you see on Zoom.。
And the people that you don't see on Zoom.。
Who only turn on, you know, who don't turn on their videos.。
Those people are also part of God's chosen nation.。
You're a royal priesthood.。
We are a holy nation.。
God has set us apart for his royal and holy purposes.。
Peter says that we are God's special possession.。
Once we were not a part of God's people, we were strangers.。
We were foreigners.。
But now God has accepted us.。
How amazing is that feeling when somebody new accepts us into his family.。
When we have a meal together.。
I remember when I first flew to New Zealand, I met some people on the plane to New Zealand.。
New Zealanders, Kiwis are the friendliest people.。
These people invited me over to their house to have a meal.。
We've just met on the plane.。
And they're like, come over.。
And you feel like you're a part of a family.。
You're a part of God's people.。
Jesus says we were once not a part of his people, but we've been received as his people.。
We have mercy now.。
And so that is God's grace.。
And what must we do now that we are part of his family?。
It says here we need to declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into。
his wonderful light.。
That is what we need to do as God's chosen people.。
Royal priesthood, a holy nation.。
And so we've been sharing tips towards sharing the good news.。
And we said that we need to have spiritual eyes to see the people around us who don't。
have Jesus.。
We need to connect with them, right?。
Through tennis, through music, maybe through financial talk, right?。
Maybe through walking our dogs together.。
We can connect with people that way.。
And as we connect with people through different things, we build trust.。
And people come to know Jesus because firstly, a lot of them know a Christian.。
And a Christian invites them to know Jesus through church, through different events.。
You know, what's amazing about Ken as we see Ken on the next slide is that he didn't believe。
in Jesus yet when he came to our summer college program.。
And he invited his friend, which was Justin.。
And Justin, he saw that, oh, Justin had been dealing with certain issues.。
He was dealing with certain relationship issues.。
And he wanted to invite him to church.。
And Ken was not a Christian yet.。
And Ken was like, come to church.。
You know, I think God can help you.。
It's because he came to our community.。
I mean, he saw what God's community can do, what God's people can do, what God's holy。
priesthood could do.。
Ken as a non-Christian invited Justin, a non-Christian, to come to SEP because he felt the community,。
the love of God.。
And that's what we've been called to do.。
We've been called to help people come out of darkness to see his light, to see his light.。
And so not only has Ken come to know Jesus, eventually me and Justin, he had a lot of。
questions.。
He was very curious about God.。
And after he went back to the UK, he also came into a loving relationship with Jesus.。
He came out of the spiritual darkness into the spiritual light.。
And so let me summarize what grace we have received from Jesus, that we have received。
a new identity.。
It's no longer lies and tangs and snell groves and chungs and engs and wongs.。
We are Christians.。
It's no longer lows and roths and fungs.。
We are Christians.。
We are part of the same family.。
We have a new identity.。
And that is found in Jesus Christ.。
Do you still see yourself as separated from God's family?。
Or do you have a new identity?。
And that is in Jesus Christ.。
What we need to do is come into obedience, submit to him, and be a part of this spiritual。
family.。
God's grace is that we have a new direction.。
We have a new spiritual direction.。
Jesus is our cornerstone.。
Cornerstone is the first stone you lay.。
And then after that, every stone goes according to that first cornerstone.。
Jesus is our new direction.。
Jesus has built up the body of Christ.。
We are the body of Christ.。
We have a new direction.。
We are not living for the earthly and the temporary.。
We are living for the eternal and the heavenly.。
We have a new direction.。
We have a new service.。
We are called to be priests, to mediate between us and God.。
Those who do not know God to God.。
We have a new service.。
We need to pray for those who do not know Jesus.。
We need to confess our own sins.。
We need to offer up our talents and our services to the Lord as holy and pleasing sacrifices。
to him.。
We have a new service.。
Are you willing to serve the Lord?。
No longer serve yourself, but serve the Lord.。
And lastly, we are a new people.。
We have a new covenant.。
Before it was God's chosen people.。
The Israelites, they had this calling to be a holy people.。
Chosen to serve God.。
And now this covenant is no longer just with the Israelites.。
It is with us.。
You, me, all of you on Zoom here.。
We are all part of God's holy nation.。
We have a new covenant.。
And this covenant is a calling to not just receive blessings from God, but to be a blessing.。
And so are you willing to be a blessing to those around you?。
Maybe it's your family.。
Be a blessing to them.。
Build them up.。
Help them to come one step closer towards Jesus.。
Maybe it's people at your workplace.。
It's often tricky, right?。
How do we share Jesus with those in the workplace?。
Connect with them, build trust, and set an example for them of the love and grace you've。
experienced from God.。
And so, do we have a new identity?。
Do we have a new direction?。
Do we have a new service?。
Do we have a new covenant with Christ?。
We're going to sing a song.。
It's called Cornerstone.。
Jesus is our cornerstone.。
He is the one that upholds our faith and builds us up.。
Let's pray.。
Heavenly Father, bless us so that we can be a blessing to others.。
Thank you for your grace, Father.。
We ask that you would help us to submit to you so that we can build others up.。
Call those who are in darkness into your wonderful light.。
