Good evening everybody and thank you Bonnie.。
Famous French underwater explorer Jacques Cousteau said this, "From birth, man carries。
the weight of gravity on his shoulders.。
He is bolted to the earth, but man has only to sink beneath the surface and he is free."。
Man has only to sink beneath the surface and he is free.。
Two weeks ago I presented a new thing, a vision for 2022.。
I highlighted the area of emotional health.。
I said I believed it was the number one issue that was facing the church today.。
We didn't waste any time.。
We immediately kicked off our new sermon series, Health for All, All for God.。
On cue as it were, the new government restrictions almost advertised it for us.。
I bumped into a mum the other day and she had primary school pupils.。
I think I saw her five minutes after the latest announcement.。
She said, "This is going to drive us crazy again."。
Last week we had James' excellent sermon, The Place of Pain Experiencing Sorrow.。
It sets the scene for where we will be over the next eight weeks.。
You need to hear it.。
What I loved about James' sermon was its focus on biblical leaders, especially Jesus,。
and the three ways that enabled Jesus to deal with sorrow.。
It sets a role model for us.。
Firstly because Jesus didn't face sorrow alone, we shouldn't.。
Remember he was with Peter, James, and John.。
Secondly, because Jesus didn't hide his feelings, we shouldn't.。
You remember he said, "Father, if this cup can be taken from me."。
And thirdly, because Jesus didn't avoid the pain, we shouldn't.。
Remember he said, "Yet not my will, but yours be done."。
Please check James' sermon.。
It will shape our next two months.。
And I have a recommendation.。
Please join a clan and get buried into the accompanying study.。
Now let's turn to Luke chapter three.。
Now Luke's first three chapters are about Jesus' family, his origin, his birth.。
And then finally we read in Luke 3 23 this,。
"Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age."。
Now the word ministry is actually not there in the Greek.。
It actually says, "Jesus was about thirty years of age when it began."。
And it goes on, "being the son, as was supposed, of Joseph."。
And then we have a genealogy.。
You can skip it.。
Actually, the truth is we invariably do, right?。
Go right down to the end of the chapter and then we read that Jesus was the son of Adam,。
the son of God.。
Now look at this and Bonnie read it to us.。
And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan.。
Now when he refers to the Jordan here, he's referring to the region around the famous。
river in Israel.。
He was led by the Spirit into the wilderness for forty days being tempted by the devil.。
He was hungry.。
Do you find that odd?。
He was led by the Spirit into the wilderness.。
Led by the Spirit into the wilderness.。
Now in the original Greek, the word that the ESV translates as wilderness is a word, "Eremos."。
I'll repeat that, "Eremos."。
Now a question.。
When you see the word wilderness, what image does it conjure up for you?。
Sometimes it's translated as desert.。
And we get visions, don't we, of heat and sand, just like the Sahara Desert, for instance.。
And that's misleading because the key point is it was empty.。
Nobody around for miles and miles.。
The word translated as lonely, isolated, deserted, and the best translation, I believe, is perhaps。
the solitary place.。
But why would Jesus, why would the Spirit take Jesus to the Eremos, the wilderness,。
the solitary place?。
Because Jesus' clash with Satan was inevitable.。
He had a calling from God to succeed where Adam and Eve failed.。
As James told us last week, they failed in the Garden of Eden, where in a sense every。
human being in history, including you and me, have also failed.。
Jesus had to succeed.。
And here's the point.。
Most of us see the Eremos as a place of weakness.。
I mean, Jesus in the wilderness, 40 days without food, on his own, tired and hungry.。
But rather than the wilderness being a place of weakness, in fact, it's a place of strength.。
Let me say it again, rather than the wilderness being a place of weakness, it is in fact a。
place of strength.。
Commenting on Jesus' temptation in the wilderness, author Dallas Willard wrote this, "Most to。
whom I have spoken about this matter are shocked by the suggestion that the wilderness, the。
place of solitude and deprivation, was actually the place of strength and strengthening for。
our Lord, and that the Spirit led him there as he would lead us there, to ensure that。
Christ was in the best possible condition for the trial."。
In that desert solitude, Jesus fasted for more than a month.。
Then and not before was Satan allowed to approach him with his glittering proposals of bread,。
fame and power.。
Only then Jesus was at the height of his power.。
And what we see throughout Jesus' life is that he sought the solitary place on a regular。
basis.。
We often read about Jesus slipping away, getting out in the middle of the night or at daybreak,。
not to pop down to the 7-Eleven, but to be in the Eremos.。
For example, let's skip down to the end of chapter 4.。
Most of chapter 4 is about what we would call a brutally long day in the life of Jesus of。
Nazareth.。
In the morning, he's preaching and teaching in the synagogue in Capernaum, casting out。
an unclean spirit.。
In the afternoon, he's healing Peter's mother-in-law.。
And then we read in verse 40, "Now the sun was setting and all those who had any were。
sick with various diseases were brought to him.。
And he laid hands on every one of them and healed them."。
We read he was casting out demons late into the night.。
And finally, finally, we read this.。
And when it was day, he departed and went into a desolate place.。
Now, can you guess what that is in Greek?。
Yes, it says that Jesus went into the Eremos.。
Now look at how Mark's gospel phrases this verse.。
It's slightly different.。
And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went to。
a desolate place.。
And there he prayed.。
There he prayed.。
Now let's read on in Mark verses 36 to 39.。
People were looking for him and trying to keep him from going away.。
Verse 36, "And Simon and those who were with him searched for him.。
And they found him and said to him, 'Everyone is looking for you.'。
And he said to them, 'Let's go on to the next towns, that I might preach there also.。
For that is why I came out.'。
And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons."。
So here's the thing.。
After a ridiculously busy day, he doesn't have a lie in.。
He gets up early in the morning.。
He goes out and maybe just a short walk to the Eremos, a solitary place, all alone in。
the quiet.。
And he is in prayer to God the Father.。
And he comes out of the Eremos with four things that I want to share with you now.。
The first thing he has is this.。
He has clarity about what he is supposed to do.。
He said, "Let's go on to the next town that I might preach there.。
For this is why I came out."。
Clarity.。
He said, "I'm not just sent to Capernaum.。
I'm also sent," other versions of the Bible says, "For this purpose, I was sent to Galilee,。
Judea, and eventually to Jerusalem.。
I have this crystal clear idea of who I am and what I'm supposed to do."。
The second thing he has is this, the ability to say no to good things.。
Oh, people come to him and said, "Everyone is asking for you in Capernaum."。
And this is a great opportunity for Jesus.。
The team from KFCI visited Capernaum a couple of years ago.。
It is a strategic location.。
It's right on the major north-south trade route.。
We call it a gateway city.。
Do something amazing in Capernaum, word will spread.。
Jesus said, "Nah, I'm okay, thank you."。
He was aware of Oswald Chambers' axiom, that good is always the enemy of the best.。
Have you heard that one?。
Good is always the enemy of the best.。
He was aware that life is short and fleeting.。
You could only say yes to a short list of things.。
He was of course aware of the danger of busyness.。
Dallas Willard once called hurry the great enemy of spiritual life in our day.。
He said this, "You must ruthlessly eliminate hurry from your life."。
I love this.。
Last year, I read a book by John Mark Comer, who has inspired this series.。
His excellent book called "The Ruthless Elimination of Hurry."。
I recommend it.。
Because in Hong Kong, our life is rush, rush, rush, rush.。
You see someone running for an MTR train and the next one's gonna be there in two minutes.。
Jesus comes out of the Eremos with clarity about what he's supposed to do。
and the ability to say no to good things.。
But the third thing he has is immersion in God's presence.。
Over and over in Luke's gospel, we read, I read it earlier, that Jesus was full of the Holy Spirit.。
He lived in 24 saturation with God.。
He was swimming in God's presence all day long.。
And finally, he comes out for empowering for God's work.。
We read, didn't we?。
He said to them, "Let's go on to the next towns that I might preach there also, for。
that is why I came out."。
And he went into Galilee preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons.。
He was determined to step out into everything that God had for him.。
So he goes into the Eremos, tired, stressed out, thinking about the thousands and thousands。
of people who want a chunk of him.。
But he comes out with clarity about what he's supposed to do, with the ability to say no。
to good things, immersed in God's presence, and empowered for kingdom work.。
Now a lot of us, and I'll be honest, I am the biggest culprit here.。
A lot of us are the exact opposite.。
Most of the time, instead of clarity about what we're supposed to do, we have confusion。
about what we're supposed to do.。
Instead of the ability to say no, we say yes to far too much.。
Instead of immersion in God's presence, we feel disconnected from God, like he is far。
away.。
And instead of empowering for kingdom work, we feel stressed out, on edge, runny on empty,。
even a little bit grouchy or grumpy.。
I'm just saying, maybe, maybe it's because we don't spend enough time in the Eremos.。
The French mathematician Blaise Pascal wrote this, "All man's misery is derived from not。
being able to sit quietly in a room alone."。
We have become experts at filling our lives with noise and activities.。
You and I have become expert, have been filling our lives with activities.。
Ouch.。
Now many of you will have heard about the spiritual disciplines.。
A spiritual discipline is a habit, something you do on a regular basis in order to live。
every moment of every day in awareness of God's presence.。
Spiritual disciplines are habits, practices, experience that are designed to develop and。
grow and strengthen certain qualities of spirit.。
As it were, build the muscles of one character and to expand the breadth of one's inner life.。
They structure the workouts which train the soul.。
Some spiritual disciplines are personal, inward exercises that are practiced alone.。
Others require interpersonal relationships and are practiced in community.。
My favourite book in this area, it shaped my life as a young Christian about 40 years。
ago was a celebration of discipline by Richard Foster.。
In it he says this, "The desperate need today is not for a greater number of intelligent。
people or gifted people, but for deep people."。
And there are various books that have been written about this subject and together they。
have a list of about 20 or so spiritual disciplines.。
But what I've seen, there are about five that consistently percolate to the surface.。
I've put them on the screen.。
They're silence, solitude, prayer, fasting, and meditation.。
Let's just look at them briefly.。
Silence is so difficult in Hong Kong, isn't it?。
And it's difficult for us extroverts, right?。
Silence is a world with no noise, no cell phones, no people, no traffic, no city.。
Solitude, you're all on your own, no friends, just you and the God who made you.。
Prayer, you are in dialogue with God.。
You talk to God and you listen to God.。
You're hearing God's voice.。
And we have some teaching available here at this church.。
If you want to find more about it, please write in and ask us.。
Fasting, going without food or something else, social media, for example.。
Again, we have teaching available on this.。
And meditation, what is God saying through his scriptures?。
But more than that, what is God saying through nature?。
Meditation is quite simply to open up your life to God.。
The truth is when we first read a book about spiritual disciplines,。
we want to start packing our bags and go to a monastery。
or hike up to Tai Ma Shan or Sunset Peak.。
And there is certainly time for this.。
I recommend places like Bethany in Cheung Chau.。
And we did see Jesus and we do see Jesus in the Eremos, 40 days without food.。
But in this story, the one I just read, Jesus goes to the Eremos for an hour or two in the morning.。
So it's not just a crazy mountain top experience, but something we can do every day.。
I want to encourage you, however you're wired, extrovert or introvert,。
whatever your schedule is, you set apart part of your life just for God.。
Phone off, no checking last night's sports results.。
Give God your first fruits, not your leftovers.。
Have a set place at a set time and make it non-negotiable.。
I said two weeks ago, Hong Kong people's favourite expression is, "I'm too busy."。
Let's for a moment talk about why you are too busy.。
Look at Luke 5, 15.。
"Yet the news about him spread all the more, so the crowds of people came to hear him。
and to be healed of their sicknesses."。
Jesus had gone viral.。
But look at verse 16.。
"But Jesus often withdrew to lonely places and prayed."。
Now you know what the Greek word for lonely places is?。
You guessed it, Eremos.。
On a regular basis, he was in the Eremos, he was in the wilderness.。
Now here's the thing, I'm sure Jesus was busy.。
I'm also sure that if you're busier than Jesus, you are not emotionally healthy.。
But Jesus made this a part of his life.。
And I think I can say that the busier that Jesus got, the more he got away.。
The more he got into silence, solitude, prayer, fasting, meditation.。
The truth is for us, for me, it's often the complete opposite.。
Life gets complicated, doesn't it?。
And the first thing that goes is the very thing that was the axis of Jesus' life and ministry.。
Could this be the reason that many of us are so emotionally unhealthy。
and feel so out of sync with God?。
The God we want to be with, but we see is far away.。
Could it be that one of the reasons we simply do not spend enough time in the Eremos?。
Now I know we're all wired differently, right?。
I'm a serial multitasker.。
My mum used to tell me when I was a schoolboy, right?。
I'd be at home trying to do my homework, right?。
But I'd be watching the TV, doing my homework and bouncing a ball all at the same time.。
It may be one of the reasons why I was always top at school for classwork。
and always bottom for homework.。
But however you are wired, we all need this.。
And I'm going to encourage you this week, I'm going to challenge you this week。
to find that space for silence, solitude, prayer, fasting and meditation.。
Away from people.。
I suggest noise cancelling headphones.。
Get your phone off.。
Not answering emails.。
Oh my goodness, WhatsApp groups.。
What is it with WhatsApp groups?。
Why do people send you WhatsApps at 11.45 at night?。
Wherever you are on the spectrum of introvert, extrovert,。
we all need the right balance between solitude and community.。
Solitude without community leads to isolation.。
We don't want that.。
That's why I said in our vision,。
we want every person in this congregation to be in a small group.。
But community without solitude goes by all sorts of names.。
Let me give you two.。
Anxiety, depression.。
And I know that from personal experience,。
having spent a chunk of 2020 and 21 taking antidepressants.。
I am therefore calling you to community.。
But in the same way, I am calling you to silence and solitude.。
It would be so easy for me to stop right here.。
But we can't.。
We're not done.。
Over the next few weeks,。
we will be looking at the principles of an emotionally healthy church.。
And the first one, the title of today's talk is this,。
look beneath the surface.。
Peter Sekiro in his book, in his Emotionally Healthy series, says this,。
"In emotionally healthy churches,。
people take a deep hard look inside their heart,。
asking what is going on that Jesus Christ wants to change.。
They understand that a person's life is like an iceberg。
with the vast majority of who we are lying deep beneath the surface.。
They invite God to bring to their awareness。
and to transform those beneath the surface layers。
that hinder them from becoming more like Jesus Christ.。
You can go to the top of a rock。
and still miss the stuff that is churning away beneath the surface.。
An iceberg is a huge chunk of ice。
that breaks off from a glacier and floats around the ocean.。
Most of an iceberg is under the water and can't be seen.。
And that's how a sneaky iceberg managed to sink the Titanic.。
But once again, Jesus is our template.。
Let's turn to Matthew 26.。
And let's end tonight where James started last week.。
Matthew 26, 36.。
"Then Jesus went with him to a place called Gethsemane.。
And he said to his disciples, 'Sit here while I go over there and pray.'。
And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee,"。
that's James and John,。
"he began to be sorrowful and troubled.。
Then he said to them, 'My soul is very sorrowful even to death.。
Remain here and watch with me.'"。
Now look at this.。
"And going a little further,。
he fell on his face and prayed,。
'My father, if it is possible,。
let this cup pass from me.。
Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will.'"。
So Jesus is in the garden with his three closest disciples, his buddies.。
And yet he still removes himself to a quiet spot.。
Now there's two things.。
He is aware of his emotions.。
My soul is very sorrowful.。
He was in touch with his feelings.。
And secondly, he understands why he has these feelings.。
Father, if it was possible, let this cup be taken from me.。
He is hours away from execution, from torture,。
from death, from rejection, from abandonment.。
And here's my point.。
These times of getting away to the Elamos,。
whether it was 40 days in the desert, miles from anyone without food,。
or a few feet away from his disciples in a park just outside the city,。
it wasn't time to read the Bible and pray, as good as that is.。
But for Jesus, it was also time to look beneath the surface,。
to get in touch with what he was feeling and to ask the why question。
and to bring it before his father.。
So what does that mean for us?。
Firstly, it is important that we have an awareness of how we are feeling,。
acknowledging and an acknowledging of what we are doing.。
But secondly, I must stress this, we've got to ask the why question.。
We need to say, "I'm really stressed out."。
Why?。
"I'm really on edge."。
Why?。
"Why do I feel I have to put another post on social media?"。
"Why do I feel so sad when I see other people on IG seeming happy?"。
"Why am I comparing?"。
"Why am I so critical of others?"。
"Why am I working hour after hour after hour to succeed?"。
Whatever that means.。
But invariably, we don't take time to ask why.。
Can I submit that one of the reasons we don't ask the question is that we are too busy?。
Another reason is that we are too scared.。
We are too scared to look beneath the surface.。
Sometimes we don't like what we find.。
It's too painful.。
Pain is sometimes God's way for getting our attention.。
I mean, when we pray, "God, take these feelings away."。
I've discovered He seldom answers that one.。
The reality is that God doesn't want to change our emotions.。
He wants to change our lives.。
He wants to deal with the roots of our emotions.。
And in that place, Jesus is waiting for us.。
In that place of pain, in our Gethsemane, as Jesus told us last week.。
My point is this.。
It can be terrifying to get away to the Alamos。
and to clear out all the noise and distraction,。
the latest Netflix series, the hectic social life, and to listen.。
To listen to God, oh yes.。
But also to listen to yourself.。
What is beneath the surface?。
To what you are feeling, to open your life up for Jesus to change you.。
And for you to realise what is causing the emotional pain.。
And my friends, here's the bottom line.。
Run to the Father.。
Run to the Father, just like the prodigal son did.。
Don't run away from Him.。
Don't run away from your issues.。
You will not solve them by getting busier, more meetings, activity, activity, activity.。
This is why the love of God is so amazingly powerful.。
In the midst of Jesus' emotional pain, what does he call God?。
My Father.。
My Father.。
In a few moments, Paul and the band are going to sing a song.。
We sang it earlier.。
We're going to be singing these words.。
I want to encourage you wherever you are to join in.。
It might be interesting if you're dialing in from the MTR.。
I run to the Father.。
I fall into grace.。
I'm done with the hiding.。
No reason to wait.。
My heart needs a surgeon.。
My soul needs a friend.。
So I run to the Father again and again and again and again and again.。
My friend, don't suppress your emotion.。
Be aware.。
Ask yourself why.。
I'm not promising anyone a quick fix.。
I'm not going to call you to the front if I could and lay hands on you and the whole thing is fixed.。
It is rarely as simple as that.。
But if you will do as Jesus did in his anguish, in his pain,。
he was literally sweating blood.。
If you will do as Jesus did and run to the Father,。
there you will find both a surgeon and a friend.。
I'm going to ask the worship band to come up now.。
But what we're going to do, rather than just rush into the song,。
is I'm going to invite everyone, whether you're here with us today, whether you're at home,。
we're going to take a period of silence.。
We don't do that very often in church, do we?。
This is not an excuse now to switch off and get on with your life.。
But actually, I feel this is very important for us as a church.。
So what we're going to do now is we're going to have a period of just silence.。
I'm not going to even pray now. We're going to have silence.。
And then Paul and the band will lead us in this song.。
And then Pastor Michelle will come up and pray for us.。
So let's just have this time of complete silence.。
