Good evening, everyone.。
Very good.。
Very, very good to see you all.。
We've been having a lot of fun doing the family gathering.。
Don't worry, you're not missing out on too much.。
It's just a very simple gathering.。
Our vision is that it's a very simple gathering in this complicated world.。
How do we gather people who would be spiritual parents that are devoted to loving the Lord。
and making disciples and serving others?。
That's it.。
It's really just as simple as that.。
But it's a joy to be able to be back here and of course see my beautiful niece as well。
who doesn't usually sit through my sermons quietly.。
But she's very, very cute.。
Proclaiming the gospel.。
You guys have been going through this series of equipping the saints.。
The vision for the church is to equip the saints and serve the community.。
Who are the saints?。
Who are the saints?。
It's you.。
You're all the saints.。
Put your hand up.。
If you're a saint, put your hand up.。
You are a saint.。
You're a saint in progress.。
You're not done yet.。
You're not the perfect thing yet.。
But you're a saint.。
The question then becomes, as we as a church, how do we equip each other to go out to serve。
the community?。
How do we equip each other to do these different things?。
And of course we've got Pastor Johnny over there, the ever young Peter Pan, Pastor Johnny,。
wearing his Lakers jersey, represent.。
Equip you to evangelise like Pastor Johnny.。
Now when it comes to this one, it's proclaiming the gospel and John's been very kind about。
it saying it's about preaching the word.。
And in some regards it is.。
But I'm not qualified to teach you how to preach.。
Actually I think it's not something that we should talk about here actually.。
But as I'm thinking about what it means to proclaim the gospel, I think it is very important.。
Because actually the role of proclaiming the gospel isn't just the pastor here or the reverend。
here standing up here and saying, "Repent.。
The kingdom of heaven is near.。
Let's open up the Bible and let's do an expository sermon on something and let me teach you how。
to do it."。
It's going to be in three points because we can only remember three points and are teaching。
you the way to preach.。
It's not really about that.。
Proclaiming the gospel is something that all of us should do.。
Francis Chan was the one that said, "Proclaiming the gospel to a lost world should be the central。
task of a church."。
Unfortunately it's often just a side dish because we have so many other activities, so。
many other programmes.。
But proclaiming the gospel should be the central thing.。
It should be our main purpose.。
It should be our identity.。
You should be able to preach the gospel.。
You should be able to proclaim the gospel.。
And if you don't feel as though you can't, guess who's not doing their job?。
Us.。
Because our role isn't to just be the ones that proclaim the gospel for you, but it's。
to equip you to be able to do the same.。
So for today, we're going to go through what it means to really proclaim the gospel and。
I'll share with you a little bit of my experiences about that because it is so important.。
In Scripture it says, 1 Peter 3, it says, "Be prepared."。
JP, be prepared to explain to other people the hope that you have.。
Be prepared.。
When people look at you and go, "Why does JP have this kind of hope?。
Why are his curtains just so perfect?。
Straight from the 90s?"。
And you've got to be able to say, "Well, this is why my curtains are so perfect."。
Sorry.。
Sorry.。
2 Timothy 4 says, "Preach the word."。
In and out of season, you need to be ready, prepared to preach the word, to proclaim the。
gospel.。
But before I talk to you about how you are supposed to proclaim the gospel, let me rewind。
a little bit.。
What is the gospel?。
I won't put anyone on the spot like I just did with JP, but let me just pose that to。
you and give you 10 seconds.。
If you were to need to explain what's the gospel, you'll hear it.。
We've all heard it before.。
We've sang it in some of the songs.。
What is the gospel to you?。
If you were to simplify it into a simple statement, a simple sentence, what is the gospel to you?。
You see, the thing is, if we're going to equip you to proclaim the gospel, we first have。
to explain to you, then make sure that you understand what the gospel is, so you can。
explain it to someone else in a very clear and simple way.。
So therefore, I ask again, what is the gospel?。
And how would you explain it?。
Because that is key.。
And so I want to make a few points.。
My final point, I'll jump to the end, is hopefully we'll be in a space where we feel equipped,。
where we feel inspired to proclaim the gospel.。
That's the end, okay?。
That's where we're going to head.。
The first two things that we're going to talk about are, in my mind, prerequisites.。
First you have to receive the gospel, then you have to respond to the gospel, and then。
you can proclaim the gospel.。
First you have to receive it and hear it, so you know what it is, and then you have。
to live it out and respond to it, and then, and only then, can you proclaim it.。
Only then.。
Have you heard the gospel?。
Recently, have you heard the gospel?。
If the gospel is so important, if we're going to be a community that is centered on the。
gospel, have you heard it recently?。
Let me tell you what I think the gospel might be, and there's some great quotes about this.。
You can just Google them online.。
I've put one up there later for you to see.。
But if I was to sum it up, what the gospel is, is of course, well, we know what the word。
gospel means.。
It means good news, right?。
It means good news.。
Why is the good news so important, though?。
Do you know why it's so important?。
The good news is so good and so important because we have bad news.。
So in order to understand the gospel, the good news, we first have to acknowledge that。
there is bad news.。
And this is the bad news, and this is how I'm going to sum it up.。
The bad news is this.。
You are not enough.。
That is the bad news.。
Reverend Doctor, former founding senior pastor, current lead pastor, pastor of the whole city,。
John Snellgrove, you are not enough.。
That is the gospel.。
At least that's the first part of it, right?。
The gospel is it doesn't matter how good you are, you are not enough.。
Florence Lau, I'm picking on people today.。
It's one of those days.。
I'm sorry.。
You guys, I'm just going to keep you all away.。
Florence Lau, CEO of Canto Gather, dentist, incredible worship leader, you are not enough.。
You are not enough.。
And what's more, you will never be enough.。
That's the bad news.。
But what's the good news then?。
The good news then, even though you on your own are not enough, but with Him, you are。
already enough.。
That is the gospel.。
Even someone like Paul is enough because of Him.。
Not because of Mel, but because of all of us.。
I don't know where you are in your life right now, whether you feel as though you're a good。
person or a bad person, a good Christian or a bad Christian.。
I can tell you right now, I can confidently say that you are enough because of Jesus.。
When people accept the gospel or believe in the gospel, what do they usually say?。
Oh, they've accepted Jesus as their Lord and Savior.。
You've heard that term before, right?。
Hey, would you pray that you would accept Jesus as your Lord and Savior?。
That means you're admitting that you need saving.。
If you need a Savior, that means you need saving because you're drowning, because you're。
dying.。
That's the gospel.。
Tim Keller has this, and I think I've got it up later.。
The gospel is that you are far worse than you ever imagined, but far more loved than。
you ever dared dream.。
You are far worse.。
Don't even think about it.。
You're not enough.。
But you are far more loved than you ever dared dream or that you ever dared hope.。
That is the gospel.。
But then you might say, "Well, okay, James, that's just your quote.。
You are not enough, and now you are enough.。
That's a kind of easy quote to remember."。
Or this Tim Keller one, it's nice and clever as well.。
But what about the Bible?。
Because actually, our definition of the gospel should be from here.。
It doesn't matter what James Tang says.。
It doesn't matter what Tim Keller says.。
It's here.。
So if you're to explain the gospel to someone, or if you are to hear the gospel again properly,。
where would you go in this book to tell you that you are not enough, but because of him,。
you are?。
Where would you go?。
There's, of course, plenty of places to go, but I want to show you a few today.。
The first one is this.。
That bad news, let me go back.。
Oh, okay.。
Thank you.。
Oh, here we go.。
Number one is this.。
Romans is where you're going to find a lot of this stuff, by the way.。
Romans 3 says, "No one is good."。
Jesus himself, when he was asked, "How do you get into eternal life, good teacher?"。
He's like, "What do you mean, good teacher?。
No one's good.。
Only God is good.。
You are not good.。
You are not good enough.。
No one is righteous.。
Not one.。
Not you, nor I.。
No one is good.。
In that same chapter, verse 23, it carries on.。
"For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God."。
There is no distinction.。
All of you fall short of the glory of God.。
Everyone.。
It doesn't matter whether you're a reverend or a pastor, or whether you're an elder or。
you're a deacon, or whether you're a businessman, whatever it is, we all fall short of the glory。
of God.。
Pastor Johnny is wearing a basketball jersey today, which I don't know if you noticed,。
number six Lakers, and it's a guy called LeBron James.。
Some people call him the goat, which is the greatest of all time, but he is not the goat.。
Correct, JP?。
He is not the goat.。
Michael Jordan is the goat.。
Thank you.。
LeBron James, he's wearing it out of tribute for LeBron, because LeBron recently, this。
last week, became the highest scoring NBA basketball player in the history of the game.。
He broke a record that was 40 years old.。
Let's say I look at LeBron James and I go, "Let's have a jumping competition."。
LeBron James is six foot eight.。
"Let's have a jumping competition, me and LeBron James.。
Who's going to win?"。
"Well, of course it's going to be me."。
"No, well, okay.。
If we're going to be able to touch the ceiling, well, he's the only one who's going to be。
able to touch the ceiling."。
It's not really a competition.。
It's not really a comparison.。
But if you say, "Hey, let's have another jumping competition, but let's both try and jump to。
the moon.。
You and I, LeBron, me and you right now, let's have a competition.。
Who can jump to the moon?"。
There is no distinction then.。
It doesn't matter if he jumps a little bit more than me.。
He's nowhere near the moon.。
He falls short too.。
That's the same.。
If you're sat there going, "I don't even know if I'm a real Christian yet," I'll tell you,。
you're just the same as me.。
You're just the same as Johnny.。
You're just the same as Johnny.。
All of us fall short.。
Welcome.。
We're all sinners.。
We are all drowning.。
We all need to be saved.。
But what's the hope?。
What's the good news?。
Now it starts to turn.。
Romans 5, it says this, "But God shows his love for us that while we were still sinners,"。
while you're sat in your chair right now and you're still a sinner, "he turns you into。
a saint by dying for you."。
While we were still sinners, Christ died for us.。
You are never enough on your own.。
But with God, you are more than enough already because of what he did.。
Romans 5, 8.。
And maybe the one that really hits home to me the most is Romans, the next chapter is。
this, Romans 6, 23, "For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal。
life in Jesus Christ our Lord."。
That means anyone who has sinned has to pay a price.。
There is a wage there is that needs to be paid.。
And you can't pay it yourself, but you can't pay yourself, but someone has paid it for。
you.。
Jesus Christ died as a ransom for many, Isaiah 53.。
That's the good news.。
The good news is that you were bad news, that you were drowning, you were dying, you were。
dead, you were blind, you were lost.。
But because of him, you are now alive.。
You are now found.。
You can now see the good news.。
That is the gospel.。
That is one that we all have to remember.。
There's another part, I haven't put it on the slides here.。
There's another passage that really hits me.。
It's in Ephesians.。
And it says this.。
It says, "You were once dead in your trespasses and sins, that you were following the course。
of this world.。
You were following the prince of the power of the air, and you were carrying out the。
desires of your body.。
And you by nature were children of wrath."。
And then it says this, and then it pivots, and then it twists.。
That was the bad news.。
You were dead in your trespasses, but God, being rich in mercy because of his great love。
for you, has made you alive now.。
That is the gospel.。
How are we going to get to a point where all of us here can proclaim the gospel?。
We start with this.。
Have you received the gospel in your heart?。
Do you actually know that, "Man, without God, I am truly dead.。
I have no chance of surviving.。
I have no chance.。
I am not enough.。
But with God, man, that's everything."。
I would be remiss to talk to you about how to proclaim the gospel, how to preach the。
word without at least sharing this with you.。
There's another quote that I really like.。
They said, "A lot of ministers spend so much of their time preaching about the gospel rather。
than preaching the gospel."。
I'm talking to you about it.。
Let's open up this word.。
Let's exposit this passage.。
Let's do this.。
Let's do that.。
Let's make it cool.。
Let's use acronyms.。
Let's do all these things.。
But we spend so much time preaching about the gospel, we neglect to actually preach the。
gospel to you, which is that you are sinners.。
We are sinners.。
But without him, we'd be gone.。
But with him, we are now alive together.。
That's the gospel.。
I don't know where you are in your life right now.。
I don't know where you are in your spiritual state, but I wanted to share that with you.。
I want you to be able to proclaim the gospel, but I first want you to be able to receive。
it, to receive it in your heart.。
That same quote then carries on and says, "Too many ministers focus on talking about。
sinners rather than talking to them."。
So I'm talking to you right now as fellow sinners.。
It's bad news.。
We're not enough.。
But with Christ, we are.。
We first must have that gospel.。
And there's this really simple quote that I also came across by a guy called John McArthur.。
It says, "The simplicity of the gospel gives what the complexity of human wisdom promises,。
but never delivers."。
You see, we know this.。
We know that despite all our efforts to be the best people that we can be, to be the。
best Christians we can be, we know that there's something missing if it was just down to us.。
The gospel is a simple gospel.。
It's that there was bad news, and there was darkness.。
But from that darkness, from that bad news, there is now good news.。
Until we truly, truly, truly come to terms with that, I don't know if we'll be able to。
truly proclaim the gospel in its most accurate form.。
Brothers and sisters, have you heard the gospel?。
Do you remind yourself of the gospel every day?。
Do you wake up and go, "Jesus, thank you that I am alive, that I'm breathing because of。
you, because if it wasn't for you, I wouldn't even be here.。
I wouldn't even be here."。
That is the gospel.。
So you receive it.。
You see, when you receive that gospel, it changes everything.。
The gospel frees you from everything.。
I don't know if you've truly received the gospel, but I want to tell you now, if you've。
received the gospel, it truly transforms everything.。
It frees you.。
What does it free you from?。
It frees you from fear, because you're like, "The gospel is that I was going to die.。
I should have died.。
And actually, I will now die to myself, but now it is Christ who lives in me.。
Christ defeated my greatest fear, death.。
He defeated death, and now I'm alive.。
What else do I have to be afraid of?"。
You're freed from worry.。
You're freed from worry.。
Jesus says, "Look at the birds.。
They don't sow, nor reap, nor gather in their barns, yet the heavenly Father feeds them.。
Are you not of more value to them?"。
Romans 8, "The God who gave his own Son, will he not graciously give you all the things。
that you need?"。
When you understand that gospel, it frees you from worry.。
It frees you from fear.。
It frees you from anger.。
Next time you're tempted or you're open to be offended by someone, you're like, "Oh,。
I don't need to be offended and angry at you anymore, because Jesus Christ took the most。
ultimate offense for me, so that I won't need to be offended by you."。
The gospel frees you from that anger.。
He frees you from the fear.。
He frees you from the worry.。
That good news.。
Once you've received that good news, nothing else really matters.。
That, brothers and sisters, is the gospel.。
And then you hear it.。
I'm sharing the gospel with you now.。
At least I hope I'm sharing the gospel with you now, and you're receiving it into your。
mind, and then you let it drop into your heart.。
And then you're like, "Man, what he's saying is true.。
Not because he's using eloquent words, but man, it's true, because I know that I am a。
sinner.。
But I feel some joy.。
I feel some hope, because someone's saved me from this."。
This is what happens to the people, the listeners, in Acts 2.。
You know, in Pentecost, when Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit, and then he stands up。
and he preaches a sermon that he's never done before in the past, and what happens?。
People hear this, and he preaches.。
He proclaims the gospel.。
They call it the kerygma.。
It's a declaration of the life and death and resurrection of Jesus.。
He just proclaims it out.。
He just says it all out.。
And then the people listening, just like yourselves, what happens to them?。
They hear it in their ears.。
It goes into their minds, and then it cuts to their heart.。
Acts 2.37.。
It cuts to their heart.。
That's what the gospel does, if you would allow it.。
It cuts to the heart, and then it changes everything.。
First, you receive the gospel, and then you respond to the gospel.。
There are so many of us in the Christian faith who I would call believers, but not followers.。
I think many times I have that wrestling.。
I'm like, "I believe in you, God, but I don't know if I actually follow you."。
Jesus says, "Believe in me," but then he doesn't just say, "Believe in me."。
That's like step one.。
"Believe that I exist."。
That's great.。
But then you've got to follow me.。
He tells the fishermen, "Follow me."。
You know, there's a new religion, or there's a new group of people that is rising up, especially。
in the West, that believe in a certain kind of faith, and it's growing, and it's gaining。
traction, especially in the West, and it's called moralistic therapeutic deism.。
Let me say that again.。
It's called moralistic therapeutic deism.。
What is this?。
This is the next generation.。
I'll tell you this is what they believe.。
They believe that there is a God.。
He's out there somewhere.。
He's divine.。
He's mysterious.。
They're fine with that.。
They believe that there's a higher being out there.。
And this higher being wants them to live a happy and comfortable and good life.。
That's the moralistic therapeutic side.。
It's like, "Oh, yeah, I know that I should be a good person.。
Something up there tells me that I should be a good person."。
That's the moral side.。
So I'm going to get my morals wrong.。
"Oh, that's not good.。
Someone up there wants me to be good."。
And then there's the therapeutic side.。
"That someone up there also wants me to live a happy, comfortable, good life."。
So when something's not going right, then something's wrong.。
And this faith in this higher being just gives me comfort.。
And deism is just this divine being.。
That's what they believe.。
My question to you is, do you believe any different?。
Do you treat the Christian God, do you treat Jesus Christ any differently?。
Do I?。
That's the question I ask myself.。
Or actually, do I just use Jesus as someone who encourages me to be a good person, gives。
me comfort when I need to, and that's about it?。
And he wants me to live a good and happy life.。
And if I'm good and happy, I'll get to heaven.。
That's the danger.。
So often we can step over that, right?。
Because Jesus is good.。
Jesus wants us to be content.。
But we've got to be careful that we don't step over into this moralistic, therapeutic。
deism that we just think God is here to serve us, to make us feel like we're having a happy。
life.。
Charles Spurgeon was the one that said, "Discernment isn't discerning between what's right and。
wrong.。
It's discerning between what's right and what's almost right."。
Your faith, is it right?。
I mean, you're here, so I'm hoping to give us all the benefit of the doubt that it's。
not bad.。
I hope I'm preaching to the choir.。
Is it right or is it just almost right?。
Because that's dangerous.。
Because if you're actually just almost right and you think you're right, that means you。
may never be right because you don't feel the need to, because you don't really understand。
the gospel.。
If you've accepted that you are bad news and without him, you will die.。
Don't be almost right.。
Be right.。
Accept and understand and receive the true gospel.。
After that, you must respond to it.。
There's a passage in Philippians that says this, "Only let your manner of life be worthy。
of the gospel of Christ.。
So whether I'm to come and see you or I'm absent, I'm here of you standing firm in this。
faith, striving side by side for the faith of the gospel."。
He's saying, "Look, if you've actually received this gospel, if you actually understand it,。
I need you to respond accordingly.。
I need you to live in a way that is appropriate for what's just happened to you.。
That you were going to die, that you were lost, that you were in debt, but now it's。
all been paid.。
Live accordingly."。
But how many of us think about this and kind of understand the gospel, kind of understand。
the good news and, "Oh, Jesus did that for me.。
Good."。
But then we don't live a life that is worthy, that is appropriate.。
You've got to respond accordingly.。
Tim Keller says this, "If you truly understand who Jesus is, the only way to respond to him。
is extremely.。
The only way to respond to Jesus Christ is extremely.。
It cannot be moderately.。
You can't just, 'Oh, Jesus is a nice guy.。
He said some good things.'"。
No, no, no, no, you can't.。
He's either Lord of your life or he's a fraud.。
He's either Lord or he's a fraud.。
When I was in Africa, I was in Africa a couple of months ago and I got to meet a lot of the。
Young Life heads around the globe.。
And I was sitting with my supervisor and he was kind of introducing me to all these big。
heads.。
This is the president of Young Life.。
This is the group vice president of this, that, that, that.。
He said, "Young Life is great because it's an ecumenical organization."。
That means it's non-denominational.。
People of all sides of the faith come together and he said, "You're going to meet leaders。
of all different kinds.。
You're going to meet this leader over here."。
He used to be in the corporate world and he was a CEO, so he's proper.。
He tucks his shirt in and his belts.。
He's just a proper guy.。
He's always going to wear a suit jacket, but he loves the Lord.。
He loves the Lord, but he is so just, he's just your typical CEO type, but he has a soft。
heart for the Lord.。
"Over here, tomorrow morning, James, you're going to see this guy.。
And actually, he's going to be standing in the pool with his arms wide open, singing。
to the Lord from the top of his lungs."。
And I thought he was just kind of giving an example and exaggerating, but lo and behold,。
the next morning I wake up, walk down from my hotel room to the restaurant where people。
are having breakfast and we're about 10 meters away from the swimming pool and there he is,。
the guy standing fully clothed in the pool, worshipping.。
This is how I fight my battles.。
This is how I fight my battles.。
Ten meters away, his boss and all the other Young Life guys are just standing there, sitting。
there, having coffee, and he's just doing this.。
And then I was like, "Oh, wow, that's strange.。
That's weird."。
And my boss, you know my boss, he's like, "Yeah, I find that hard sometimes to kind。
of get a bit cynical because it's a bit weird."。
And I was like, "Yeah, yeah, me too."。
But then I was like, "If God is who we say he is, if God truly is as big a deal as we。
sing about him to be, which one is more appropriate?"。
If God walked through that door right now, I don't really know what you'll do and I quite。
frankly wouldn't care what you do.。
I know what I'm going to be doing.。
I'm going to be acting in a very extreme way because I know who he is.。
So we have to respond to the gospel in a way.。
We have to live a life worthy of the gospel of Christ.。
Imagine if you had a huge debt.。
Imagine if Pastor Johnny spent way too much on sneakers and he's bought all the sneakers。
in the world and he's now just deeply, deeply, deeply in debt and he's sleeping on shoes.。
He doesn't even have a mattress anymore.。
He's just sleeping on his shoes.。
And then someone comes along, someone comes along and just pays all of it off.。
What is, this isn't trivia, what is Pastor Johnny's next response?。
What should it be and what will it not be?。
He wouldn't be, and bear in mind, this person, this rich donor who's paid off all his debts,。
the reason why he paid it isn't just for giggles, isn't just because he has a lot of money to。
just kind of throw away.。
"Oh, let me just help this little young, not very young pastor out who's addicted to shoes."。
It's not just that.。
It's this person actually wants a relationship with him.。
"I want to pay this because I want to know you, I want you to know me, Johnny."。
And then imagine Johnny's response, "Ah, cool, thanks.。
I guess I've got a bit of money now, I best go buy some more shoes."。
If you were Johnny, you'd be like, "Oh my goodness, I couldn't have ever gotten out。
of that debt by myself.。
I've got myself into that debt, but I can't get myself out.。
But thank you.。
And you want a relationship?。
I want to know who you are.。
I want to respond to you accordingly.。
You know what?。
I'm going to spend all of my life trying to get to know you."。
That's what Jesus has done for you, brothers and sisters.。
How do you respond to him?。
Is it moderately or is it extremely?。
Because when we're talking about proclaiming the gospel, it has to be do as I do, not do。
as I say.。
We have to live it.。
There's another quote which says, "There's no point walking to go preach if your walking。
isn't your preaching."。
There's no point walking to go somewhere to preach if your walking isn't your preaching.。
Something that I've held onto myself is, "May my preaching never outrun my living.。
May my preaching never outrun my living.。
May the reason why I even have authority to share about these things is because I'm living。
it right now.。
And I'm not perfect.。
And I'm a sinner just like you.。
But I'm being made a saint just like you.。
And because of that, because I'm living it, I can share it with you."。
So the question is, are you responding to the gospel extremely?。
Are you living that life?。
There's this quote that again we hear a lot which is, it's attributed to Francis of Assisi,。
but actually many people don't think it is.。
It's, "Preach the gospel at all times.。
Use words when necessary."。
It's pretty cool.。
It's like, "Oh, what does that mean?。
Preach the gospel at all times.。
Use words when necessary."。
It means you preach the gospel with your life.。
It means you live in a way that people look at you and go, "Whoa, there's something about。
him.。
That person has received some good news.。
He's skipping in the streets.。
He's received some good news and I want to find out what that good news is."。
Jesus says the same thing in Matthew 5, "In the same way, let your light shine before others。
so that others may see your good works and praise can give glory to your Father who is。
in heaven."。
So, we say, "Preach the gospel at all times with just the way you live because the gospel。
transforms everything about you."。
And so, you live in a different way.。
You glow.。
You shine in a different way because of the good news that you've received, because of。
the debt that has been paid, because you were literally picked out from the ocean when you。
were drowning, when you were just about to go underwater.。
That is the gospel.。
Do we do that?。
And that's the great thing.。
You see, because the greatest enemy of the gospel are hypocrites, people who hear the。
news and they're like, "Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, sure, sure.。
I'll take the benefits and then I'll just carry on living my life."。
And then the people outside are like, "Oh, you've received your good news but you look。
the same as me.。
You do the same things as me.。
You talk about the same things.。
You're obsessed over the same things.。
What's that good news?。
Clearly, that good news must be fake news because you don't live any differently."。
That's the danger.。
So if we as a church want to proclaim the gospel, we must receive it and we must respond。
to it.。
Now, this is where I get to my final thing.。
You may be saying, "Oh, that's great news to me, James.。
All I need to do to proclaim the gospel is just to live a good life and be a good Christian.。
I don't have to use any words at all."。
But that's incorrect.。
Because living out the gospel is one part, but just a lifestyle evangelism is what they。
call it isn't actually enough.。
Johnny will tell you this as an evangelist.。
Just simply being a good Christian isn't going to be enough.。
At some point, you will have to articulate with your words the reason why you have this。
hope.。
At some point, you will have to present the gospel and proclaim the gospel.。
You have to be able to share the reason why you have that.。
This is where we come to the final passage that Bonnie read for us today.。
Romans 10, verse 14.。
I'll just read it from here.。
"How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed?。
And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard?。
And how are they to hear without someone preaching?。
And how are they to preach unless they are sent?。
As it is written, 'How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news.'"。
In order for people to truly receive this good news, they have to hear it.。
Faith comes by hearing.。
So they must hear it.。
Just like you're hearing it now.。
Just like you heard it at some point.。
Faith comes by hearing.。
So the thing for us then, if we work backwards here, we can figure out actually what our。
role is.。
In order for people to receive the good news, first they need to have someone who is sent。
to them, and then after that, they need to have someone who is actually willing to proclaim。
that gospel to them, to preach it to them.。
And only when they're preached to and they hear it, can they believe.。
And only when they believe will they then call on him.。
And once they call on him, everyone who calls on the name of Jesus is saved.。
So it starts with this.。
This is the kind of sequence if we work back.。
The question then is, "Oh James, but I don't know if I'm sent."。
Oh, you're sent.。
Actually, there's a wonderful quote by Hudson Taylor.。
This is a guy who left the West to basically, he's one of the founding fathers of the Christian。
faith in China.。
And he says this, and I love this quote.。
"It will not do to say that you have no special call to go to China.。
With these facts before you and with the command of the Lord Jesus to go and preach the gospel。
to every creature, you need rather to ascertain whether you have a special call to stay at。
home."。
You need rather to ascertain whether you have a special call to stay at home.。
Because Jesus has sent you.。
But this is, I'm sorry if you're like, "Oh, I don't want to do this.。
It's so embarrassing."。
I'm so sorry.。
The only way to respond to Jesus is extremely.。
And so therefore you must, unless you do, unless you wake up and you feel God guiding。
you saying, "I want you to stay at home on your sofa."。
Unless you hear the tangible voice of God in this Morgan Freeman style saying, "Stay。
at home and continue to Netflix."。
Unless you have that, you must get your butt off the sofa and proclaim the gospel.。
Because that's the call for everyone.。
It's the Great Commission, Matthew 28.。
"All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.。
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations."。
So we must.。
You are sent already.。
The question then is, have you received the gospel truly in your mind and in your heart?。
And have you responded to it living in a way that's appropriate?。
And then are you using the words to be able to share it out?。
That's all that matters.。
That's all it is.。
And this work isn't actually your own.。
This work is a continuation of Jesus' work.。
This isn't, "Oh, but I've got to start this project from the ground up.。
I've got to figure out how to do this."。
No, no, no, no.。
Jesus, this is Jesus' work.。
Saving souls, salvation belongs to the Lord.。
All we have to do is actually just follow along.。
Jesus himself, when he announced himself, he said, and he, oh, this is not the verse,。
sorry.。
And he was preaching in the synagogue.。
I gave the wrong reference.。
And he says this, "I must preach to the, I must preach the good news of the kingdom of。
heaven to the other towns as well.。
For this was the reason I was sent.。
I must preach the good news to the other towns as well.。
For this was the reason I was sent."。
So Jesus came to do that.。
And now he's asking you to simply continue the work.。
So you are sent, brothers and sisters.。
You are sent.。
You just have to live it out.。
You have to, well, you have to receive it.。
And then you have to respond to it by living it out.。
And then have the words to say.。
Proclaim the gospel, fellow saints.。
I have not really taught you how to preach the word.。
And maybe that qualifies as a bad sermon.。
And I'm not qualified to teach you how to do it.。
But you might, by God's grace, I may have gotten you to a point, encouraged you to a。
point, inspired you to a point, okay, okay, fine, fine, fine.。
I must do it.。
I've heard it now.。
I was bad news, but now I'm good news.。
We'll teach, how can I do it?。
How do I go about it?。
So I'll finish off with some very quick, simple principles that I don't even dare call。
it advice or tips, but just principles that I follow when I'm proclaiming the gospel.。
And the first one is this, simplicity.。
You just keep it simple.。
You know, Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapters 5 to 7, over 80% of the words that。
he uses were one or two syllables.。
There was no long words of sanctification and justification.。
It was just love those, love your enemies, pray for those who persecute you.。
It was a very simple message.。
It was a very simple message.。
So don't worry yourself, oh, do I have the right words to say?。
If you boil it right down, it is just Jesus loves you.。
You will be surprised, and fellow pastors who care for a lot of people will tell you。
this, you will be surprised how many people just need to hear those simple words that。
we brush over all the time.。
Jesus loves you.。
Jesus loves you.。
There is bad news, I'm sorry.。
Romans 6 says, "For the wages of sin is death, but there is a free gift of eternal life."。
For you fall short of the glory of God, just like me.。
There is no difference between you and I, but you and I are justified freely by His。
grace as a gift.。
It's free.。
It's free.。
Receive it.。
It's a simple gospel.。
It's before and after.。
It's dead, now alive.。
It's blind, now see.。
It's lost, now found.。
It's simple.。
Keep it simple.。
Number two, that ties in.。
Be clear.。
Get to the point where you are able to share with the people that God has placed in front。
of you and say, "This is the reason why I hope, because without Him, I was so lost.。
I was overcome with worry.。
I was overcome with hate and resentment, but because of Him, I am now freed from those。
things."。
And you can do it.。
And share it with humility.。
Too many people's idea of church is, "Oh, there's these condescending, old, judgmental。
men who just look down on you and go, 'Do as I say.'"。
Right?。
"Do as I say."。
But when the whole point of the gospel is that we are all sinners, you can share it。
with this humble heart.。
"Don't you worry.。
I'm not judging you because I'm just as bad as you.。
I can't reach the moon either.。
Don't worry.。
It's not as though I have some special hops that gets me to the moon.。
No, no, no.。
We're the same."。
And that ties in with the vulnerability.。
The way you proclaim the gospel is you just share with them how you heard the gospel,。
how you received the gospel, and how you're responding to it.。
Paul, the greatest evangelist that ever lived, Paul, said, "I am the worst of the apostles."。
Romans 7, "For what I know I should do, I don't do.。
And what I know I shouldn't do, I do do.。
What a wretched man I am."。
That's Paul.。
That's the apostle Paul who says that.。
"But thanks be to God because of Jesus."。
So don't be afraid to share your vulnerabilities.。
Don't be afraid to share the struggles.。
And finally, have the audacity.。
Don't be ashamed of the gospel.。
It is truth because you've experienced it, because you've lived it, and because we believe。
that this is truth, that this is the word of God.。
These are the only words in the whole world that are living and active.。
Be audacious.。
Be bold and courageous for the Lord your God is with you.。
Do not be ashamed of the gospel.。
It is the truth, and your life is evidence of it.。
So be humble, be vulnerable, but don't be afraid.。
Keep it simple, keep it clear, and when in doubt, call Pastor John.。
Pray, pray.。
Father, we thank you, Lord.。
Father Lord, we thank you.。
We receive the gospel in our minds and in our hearts again this evening.。
Oh God, we were dead in our trespasses.。
We are not good enough.。
We are nowhere near.。
But we are sure of this, that he who began a good work in us will bring it to completion.。
We are sure of this, that because of your love, while we were still sinners, you died。
for us.。
You paid that debt, you paid that ransom, and now we are free.。
And we receive that gospel again this evening.。
We receive it in our minds, we believe it, and we let it cut to our hearts.。
And so Lord, we want to live our lives in an appropriate way for the one who saved us。
from the ditch.。
So Lord, help us live a life worthy of the manna and the calling of the gospel.。
Let others see our good works and give you glory, God.。
Let us shine.。
Holy Spirit, can you give us the wisdom on how we can live and respond to you in the。
most radical and extreme way?。
Because you deserve all that we have, all that we are, and all that we do.。
And Lord, then give us the words.。
We commit to knowing nothing except that Jesus Christ was crucified.。
Jesus, the Prince of Heaven, Son of God, came down to earth, emptied himself, taking the。
form of a servant, and was crucified on a cross.。
And from that moment on, we are no longer sinners.。
From that moment on, we took the first step to becoming from sinners to being saints.。
And Lord, may that message permeate through every aspect of our being, our living, and。
then come out through words that are loving and simple, yet piercing.。
Thank you, Lord.。
Continue to equip us as your children to proclaim your word to every nation, holding on to the。
promise that you will be with us until the end.。
In your name we pray.。
Amen.。
