Doing a great job.。
And he did a great job for us last week,。
telling us about the Father's heart, the Father's heart.。
And the Father so loved the world that he sent his one and only son,。
and that is Jesus, to us as an example for us.。
And today we're going to learn about Jesus and the leper.。
A couple years ago, I went to India.。
Actually, that was one of the mission trips I went to.。
Has anybody been to India before?。
You may have been to India before.。
And just like Russell Peter says, when you go to India,。
your senses come alive.。
Okay?。
Your sense of smell, the things you see, the things you hear.。
You could be crossing the road with goats and oxes,。
and the street just stops for goats.。
It's not for goats, for oxes, for cows.。
There's such poverty there as well, and it really opens your eyes and your ears.。
I remember one time I was riding the trains.。
Trains are a crazy experience as well.。
Have you been to one of the trains?。
Yeah, you have to, like, rush in and, like, basically body check your way in。
because there's lots of people.。
Imagine the MTR times 10.。
Okay?。
The MTR times 10.。
And to get out, you've got to push your way out near the door。
so that you get out the next exit。
because on the next exit, do you know who's coming in?。
Grandmas are just coming in.。
Grandpas are coming in.。
They don't care who's there.。
They're coming in.。
So you've got to be right at the exit to get out.。
Okay?。
This was my India experience.。
It was crazy.。
And I remember one time I was just at the trains,。
and it was exactly just like this.。
I saw tons of garbage just everywhere.。
And I was talking with one of my Indian friends who was a student,。
and I was like, "How come people are just throwing trash there?。
How come people don't pick it up?"。
And he's like, "Oh, there's only certain people to pick this up,。
and they're actually called the Dalits,。
and they're the caste, the untouchable caste."。
And in the next slide, you'll see that there's a caste system in India,。
and the Dalits are on the bottom.。
And a lot of them are street cleaners,。
and they have simple tasks, very simple tasks.。
And a lot of them are actually abused and looked down upon.。
One quote says this,。
"Dalits are not allowed to drink from the same wells,。
attend the same temples,。
wear shoes in the presence of the upper caste,。
or drink from some cups in some tea stalls.。
Dalits are looked down upon.。
They're the untouchables.。
They're expected to clean up the garbage.。
They're expected to be low."。
I remember I was in University of Toronto,。
and well, before I wasn't paid to play basketball,。
and now I am.。
So in the next slide, you'll see the University of Toronto.。
I played on Division 1.。
There's four divisions, okay, and I played Div 1.。
And Div 1, most people were at least six feet, six feet tall.。
And so I joined--I was able to make my team。
because they were the worst team, all right?。
They were the untouchable team, untouchable team.。
And I was the shortest--I was one of the shortest guys on this team.。
And because I didn't live on campus, I didn't go to practice,。
and so they put me very far down the bench, okay?。
I remember this one time, the coach subbed me in,。
and I played for 30 seconds, and then he subbed me out.。
And he was like, "Good minute."。
And I'm like, "Yeah, good minute."。
I was like, "I played a minute."。
I was just like, "Come on."。
I was like the untouchable on this untouchable team.。
Now, not the untouchable where you can't trade a person,。
where he's so valuable he's untouchable.。
I'm untouchable where you only play him 30 seconds。
just to say that he participated,。
just so that, you know, he can be happy for a little bit.。
And so I was the untouchable on this team.。
JP knows what it means to be untouchable.。
[laughter]。
Let's read Mark 1 together, the story we just saw on the video.。
Let's read the scripture together.。
One, two, three.。
"A man with leprosy came to him and begged him on his knees,。
'If you are willing, you can make me clean.'。
Jesus was enigmate.。
He reached out his hand and touched the man.。
'I am willing,' he said. 'Be clean.'"。
Leprosy.。
Does anybody know anybody with leprosy today?。
You do.。
It's not that common anymore because we have a cure for it.。
We have a cure for it.。
The symptoms of leprosy are it's an infectious disease。
caused by mycobacterium lyprae.。
It affects the skin.。
It affects your nerves.。
Has anybody have nerves that are numb, that they can't--。
Have you ever felt like you couldn't feel your hands before?。
It's a little too cold?。
This is what happens when it gets worse.。
You sort of lose your feelings on your toes and your hands.。
Due to injury, they can lose their hands and their toes.。
If it even gets worse, it could affect your breathing.。
Some people can lose their eyes, literally lose their eyes.。
If you have leprosy, what you would do nowadays。
is you would go to a doctor.。
It's a medical problem.。
It's a bacterial infectious disease that you have.。
And it's transmitted by droplets.。
Speaking, when we had this huge plexiglass thing。
to prevent COVID, similar.。
It was transmitted by droplets.。
But nowadays, if you get leprosy, it's curable.。
It's okay, especially in the early stages.。
You don't have to be disabled.。
You don't have to lose your eyes.。
There is a cure.。
There is a cure.。
Now, here are some pictures of leprosy.。
I chose the most decent ones for you guys.。
In the early stages, it could cause blemishes in your skin.。
And in the later stages, it could cause your fingers,。
because of the nerve damages to your nerves.。
It could cause your fingers and your feet to go.。
Now, do you know the history of leprosy in the Bible?。
Who was the first person to have leprosy?。
Anybody know?。
Haman?。
Naaman, yes.。
Naaman, yes, he had leprosy.。
And he was miraculously healed, right?。
Elijah told him to go to the Jordan River.。
But there was a person before that.。
Miriam, that's right.。
Do you know why Miriam got leprosy?。
Do you know why he got leprosy?。
Because he was on his phone while the sermon was happening.。
Is that right?。
Is that what was happening?。
I see you guys, don't worry.。
I see you.。
No, that wasn't the reason, all right?。
It wasn't the reason.。
Let's read it.。
I'll just read it for you.。
Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of his wife.。
The woman that he married was not an Israelite, all right?。
He was a Cushite.。
They said to him, "Has the Lord indeed spoken only through Moses?。
Has he not spoken through us also?"。
And the Lord heard it.。
The Lord heard it.。
What was the Lord's response?。
Let's see.。
"Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?。
And the anger of the Lord was kindled against them.。
And he departed when the cloud removed from the tent, over the tent.。
Behold, Miriam was leprous like snow.。
And Aaron turned towards Miriam.。
And behold, she was leprous.。
And Aaron said to Moses, 'Oh, my Lord, do not punish us because of what we have。
done foolishly and have sinned.。
Let her be as one dead whose flesh is half eaten away when he comes out of his。
mother's womb.'。
And Moses cried to the Lord, 'Oh, Lord, please heal her.。
Please.'。
But the Lord said to Moses, 'If her father had but spit on her face,。
should she not be ashamed seven days, let her be shut outside the camp seven。
days.。
And after that, she may be brought in again.'。
So Miriam was shut outside the camp for seven days, and the people did not set。
out on the march till Miriam was brought back in again."。
How many days did Miriam have leprosy?。
Seven days.。
How many days was she in isolation?。
Seven days outside the camp, isolated.。
That was the command of the Lord.。
Some people called this disease back then the touch of God because it was the touch。
of God that gave the disease, and it is the touch of God that can take away this。
disease.。
Back then, leprosy, same sort of symptoms, dry, patchy, crusty patches of skin.。
However, back then, they didn't go to a doctor for a diagnosis.。
And why was that?。
Because they believed this was not just a physical problem.。
This was a spiritual problem.。
What did Miriam do?。
What was her sin?。
What did she do?。
What did she do?。
Should we read it again?。
Should we read it again?。
She spoke against Moses, God's servant.。
So back then, they thought it was a spiritual disease.。
If you were gossiping, if you were speaking condemnation against people,。
the disease would come out through your skin.。
That was their belief back then, okay?。
And this was evident through Miriam.。
Miriam.。
And so what happened?。
What was the result?。
Nowadays, we can take medicine and get a cure for leprosy.。
Back then, it resulted in a loss of your job.。
No more teaching.。
No more dentistry.。
No more finance.。
No more computer science.。
No more law.。
No more student.。
Loss of your job.。
You lose your family.。
You're isolated from the camp.。
Not just seven days.。
Okay?。
Not just seven days.。
There's a special place in Israel for these people.。
A contamination place.。
Quarantine place.。
Who liked quarantine?。
Who did 21--okay, Julian likes quarantine.。
Who did seven days of quarantine?。
Who did seven days of quarantine?。
How was it?。
It was okay?。
Survivable?。
Torture in Shijin?。
Yeah?。
Okay.。
Okay, no windows.。
They closed--okay.。
You didn't get a room with a window?。
Okay.。
They didn't want people to see freedom.。
It's actually better, I think, because I got a big window,。
and I saw people running, jumping, playing basketball,。
and I was just like, "Five more days.。
Four more days."。
Playing basketball with the wall.。
Football with the wall.。
Kicking it against the wall.。
Who did 14 days?。
14 days was okay?。
Survivable?。
21 days.。
Wow, these guys.。
These guys.。
21 days.。
How was it in isolation?。
Oh, you had your wife.。
It might be worse.。
For Sandra, not for you.。
Okay, they had a huge place.。
They could run around, do laps.。
Five at Pulong's, okay.。
Imagine leprosy, quarantine.。
Not just seven days, not just 14 days.。
Knowing that you had a hope that you would get out.。
21 days, at least you're working towards that last day.。
There's hope that you would get out.。
Leprosy?。
Did people really have a hope?。
They didn't.。
And as things got worse and worse,。
from patches of your skin to losing your fingers。
to losing your feet to not being able to see,。
to not being able to breathe, to losing your nose,。
was hope getting stronger and stronger?。
It wasn't.。
It was getting worse.。
Despair.。
Isolation.。
Loneliness.。
And it says here that the priest was to examine them。
for dull spots.。
And what would happen?。
If the priest saw that they had leprosy,。
they would be forced to go out, outside to the camp.。
You can read Leviticus 13 for the details.。
And also, not only were you to have isolation from society,。
it says in verse 45, let's read 45 together.。
Can we go to 45?。
Ready?。
One, two, three.。
Anyone with such a defiling disease must wear torn clothes,。
left their hair be unkept, cover the lower part of their face,。
and cry out, unclean, unclean.。
As they have the disease, they remain unclean.。
They must live alone.。
They must live outside the camp.。
Imagine when you had COVID.。
You had to cry, unclean, unclean, on the MTR.。
How would it be?。
Everybody would run away, right?。
Okay.。
This is what lepers had to do when they stepped out of their quarantine zone.。
And they were amongst people that were clean.。
They had to cry out, unclean, unclean, like a sign.。
I'm diseased. I'm unclean.。
Beware.。
Beware.。
And so this man in this story where he approached Jesus,。
he begged him on his knees, "If you are willing, you can make me clean."。
Have you ever begged for something?。
You were so desperate for something.。
Maybe it's your child that is sick, and you're so desperate.。
I remember in Canada, it was like -30 one day, -40 sometimes,。
and our heater broke.。
And our heater broke, and I started to develop a fever.。
Okay?。
And you know what my mom did?。
My mom was like, "Come and fix the heater now!。
My son is sick!。
She's just like fighting for me!"。
You know?。
Like, I was going to die from fever in -40.。
She was just so desperate for her child, for me.。
Have you ever been desperate for something?。
So desperate.。
Maybe it's your exam marks.。
So desperate.。
God, help me to get this mark so I can go to university.。
Maybe it's for a job.。
Maybe it's for a relationship.。
Have you been so desperate?。
This was this man.。
So desperate.。
In a parallel passage in Luke, it says this.。
Luke was a doctor.。
His diagnosis, covered in leprosy.。
Possibly, he's in the late stages of his life.。
He's desperate.。
Covered with leprosy.。
He came in desperation.。
He came in violation.。
He's violating the laws of Moses.。
In Leviticus 13, it says, "You should live outside the camp."。
In Leviticus 13, it says, "You should cry unclean."。
Unclean, unclean, unclean.。
When you see people that are clean and you're approaching them,。
he is living in violation.。
And lastly, he's seeking compassion.。
Can you imagine five years of quarantine?。
Without windows.。
It's very bad.。
It's very bad.。
Could it be 20 years in isolation?。
I can't imagine it.。
This person, what is this?。
In his late stages.。
We don't know how many years or how much time exactly.。
He pleads to Jesus, "If you are willing, you can make me clean."。
It shows us that this leper had heard about Jesus.。
In Mark, he had healed.。
In Mark, he had cast out demons.。
So possibly he had heard about these healings.。
He had heard about the casting out of demons.。
In the video, we heard that this man say, the leper say,。
"Oh, I heard about what you did at the wedding.。
You turned water into wine.。
The healings.。
That's how I know of you."。
Did Jesus approach this person with fear?。
Was he fearful?。
The disciples were, right?。
"Don't breathe the air.。
Run away.。
Step back."。
Right?。
They approached with fear.。
This man was unclean, diseased, an outcast, in isolation.。
And Jesus decides to heal him by touching.。
Jesus could have healed by any way.。
Spoken, sang, be healed.。
He could have healed by sending a letter or whatever.。
He could have done anything, right?。
Email, a text, you're healed.。
Don't worry.。
I'm willing.。
LOL.。
Not LOL.。
But Jesus chooses to heal by touch to a person who is untouchable.。
Untouchable.。
From unclean, he was made clean.。
From disease, there was healing.。
From an outcast, for the first time, there was acceptance.。
From isolation, he revealed his presence to this person.。
This man was seeking physical healing.。
And not only did Jesus give him physically healing,。
ultimately he would give spiritual healing.。
The healing of his soul.。
An untouchable person was touched by an extraordinary man named Jesus.。
And his touch infected the leper.。
The most infectious person in this story is not the leper.。
Who is it?。
It's Jesus.。
Jesus is the most infectious person.。
His love, his healing, his touch, his presence, his words,。
he is the most infectious person in this story.。
Have you thought about that?。
Jesus is amazing.。
His spiritual touch.。
And then Jesus says to him, let's continue and finish the story here.。
One, two, three.。
Jesus sent him away at once with a strong warning.。
See that you don't tell this to anyone.。
But go, show yourself to the priest,。
and offer the sacrifices that Moses commanded for your cleansing。
as a testimony to them.。
Continue.。
Instead, he went out and began to talk freely, spreading the news.。
As a result, Jesus could no longer enter the town openly。
and stayed outside in lonely places.。
Yet the people still came to him from everywhere.。
So Jesus wasn't like, oh, go share, you know, because his time had not come.。
His time had not come.。
And if you continue to read in the Gospels, you'll see why.。
But Jesus tells him, interestingly, to obey the law of Moses.。
And the law of Moses says this in Leviticus 14.。
The priest is to go outside the camp and examine the person who has leprosy.。
If they have been healed of their defiling skin disease,。
the priest shall order two live, clean birds。
and some cedar wood, scarlet yarn, and hyssop。
be brought before the person to be cleansed.。
Then the priest shall order that one of the birds be killed。
over fresh water in a clay pot.。
He is then to take the live bird and dip it, together with the cedar wood,。
the scarlet yarn, and the hyssop, into the blood of the bird。
that was killed over fresh water.。
Seven times shall he sprinkle the one to be cleansed of the defiling disease。
and pronounce them clean.。
After that, he is to release the live bird in the open fields.。
What does this sound like?。
Two birds, and then you have a piece of cedar wood,。
hyssop, and then scarlet yarn.。
Scarlet yarn, what color was scarlet yarn usually?。
Red. Scarlet yarn, red.。
Let's see the next picture.。
A bird tied to cedar wood with scarlet yarn,。
and hyssop is used for cleaning.。
What do you think it represents?。
It represents Jesus, what Jesus did for us on the cross.。
He took the punishment.。
He paid the price so that the other bird could go free.。
It's so symbolic of what Jesus had done.。
He tells the man, "Go and make a sacrifice,"。
because this actually foreshadows what I'm doing on earth.。
Not just healing people physically,。
but ultimately healing people spiritually.。
Today, this weekend is Father's Day.。
This is a picture of me and my parents.。
We were in Japan.。
Obviously, my dad's a Messi fan.。
Although he did not jump out of the stadium to hug Messi。
like somebody in China did yesterday,。
there was some YouTube video of that.。
I remember a time when I was a child.。
Everybody has been a child.。
I remember a time when I was a child.。
I was at church, and my dad is a pastor.。
There were huge expectations.。
"Pastor's kid, you've got to be perfect,"。
the second coming of Jesus.。
Joking.。
That's what somebody actually said to me, though.。
I'm very active.。
I'm competitive.。
When I was a kid, I was also the same and energetic.。
Somehow, we were playing shooting rubber bands.。
Somehow, I was really good at it.。
I lit up this guy like he was Christmas.。
He had some bruises from rubber bands.。
We were pretending we were doing CS.。
There was no CS back then.。
I'm just using a modern-day example.。
We were pretending we were playing Counter-Strike,。
just shooting each other.。
Because there were some marks on him from rubber bands,。
his sister got mad.。
His sister was like, "What am I going to tell my parents?。
I brought you to church for the first time,。
and you got lit up by the pastor's kid."。
I remember going back to the house,。
and my parents explaining this to me.。
I was hiding in a dark room.。
I'm also very good at hiding.。
What do you mean?。
This guy, naughty.。
I was hiding because I was like, "Oh, no.。
I don't know if my parents will love me.。
I don't know if the church will accept me."。
These are things that come in a pastor's kid's head.。
"I don't know.。
Maybe this person will never go to church again,。
and I've spiritually condemned them for the rest of my life."。
These are some of the thoughts that go through your head。
as a pastor's kid.。
I remember I was hiding,。
and finally my parents realized I was gone,。
and they were crying out, "Johnny, Johnny, where are you?"。
I was behind the door of this room,。
and when my dad stepped in, I pushed him.。
I pushed him.。
I was like, "Leave me alone."。
I was like, "You don't want me anymore."。
You know what my dad said?。
You know what my dad said?。
My dad said, "When did I ever say that I didn't want you?"。
When he said that, I knew I was accepted.。
I was loved.。
I did something wrong, not really knowing,。
but I knew my dad loved me.。
That is what Jesus is.。
That is what the story of the prodigal son is.。
Each one of us have done something wrong.。
Each one of us have something wrong with us.。
Maybe we're broken.。
Maybe we're lost.。
Maybe we're struggling to find meaning.。
Maybe we have a physical illness.。
Maybe we have a mental illness.。
Each of us are broken in our own way.。
Just like that prodigal son's father,。
he is waiting at the doorstep for us to return.。
Maybe you've been struggling with something.。
I don't know what it is.。
Something you've done, something you're going through.。
God knows what you're going through.。
"When did I ever say I didn't want you?"。
God never said that.。
It was my own lie in my head.。
"They'll never want me.。
They'll kick me out.。
I'll have to run away."。
God never said that.。
"When did I ever say I didn't want you?"。
Is there anywhere in the Bible that says that?。
No.。
God is a God of love.。
He knows our need.。
He knows our situation.。
And in the last song that we're going to sing tonight,。
the chorus says this.。
"I run to the Father.。
I step into grace.。
I'm done with the hiding.。
No reason to wait.。
My heart needs a surgeon.。
My soul needs a friend.。
So I'll run to the Father again and again and again."。
Let me just pray for us.。
Let's just close our eyes.。
Is there anybody right now tonight that's just going through something,。
going through a struggle?。
They're feeling lost.。
They're feeling broken.。
They're feeling isolated like that leper.。
And they're in need of a touch, not just any touch but a spiritual touch,。
a touch that only Jesus can provide.。
Jesus, the most infectious person in the world, with his love,。
he wants to consume you with his love, with his acceptance, with his grace.。
Let us come and run to the Father.。
Let us be known by him.。
Father, I pray for each one of us.。
We're all broken, lost in some way.。
We need your healing, not just once but a constant healing.。
We thank you that you know our need, you know what we're going through,。
and that you are willing, and that you have already paid the ultimate price.。
We thank you, Jesus.。
And the church said, "Amen."。
Let us stand.。
[music]。
(gentle music)。
[MUSIC]。
