Merry Christmas, everyone.。
Speaking of Christmas,。
we all talk about giving presents.。
Whether it's receiving presents or giving presents.。
It was funny just now,。
Mender Stanley said。
everyone wants to get presents.。
Presents always bring people happiness.。
Or Christmas is an opportunity。
to express your gratitude.。
You may have someone in your heart,。
your parents, your friends, or your loved ones.。
You will always think carefully。
what present to buy for them.。
How should I give them?。
I've thought it all out.。
How should I give them?。
If you have someone important in your heart,。
you will always rehearse。
how to give them a present.。
I think it's difficult to give a present.。
How do I find the perfect gift?。
You don't want to give a present。
to someone who doesn't like it.。
If the person doesn't like it,。
the person will transfer the present to someone else.。
Or if the person is very thoughtful,。
you will put the present in the drawer。
and see when it's the right time to use it.。
But it may always be in the drawer.。
So you always want to find a present。
that the person really likes.。
When you see the person using it,。
you will be happy.。
How to buy a present like this?。
I asked Kirstie a question just now.。
What is the most memorable present you received?。
Hugo and Kirstie said it's a difficult question.。
When they asked me,。
I had some answers in my mind,。
but I didn't want to say it.。
But I want to say。
what are the elements of a memorable present?。
First, no matter what answer you have in your mind,。
what is a memorable present?。
The first element is related to the person who gave it to you.。
It's not about a person who doesn't know how to use it.。
Even if the person gave you a beautiful present,。
you will say, "Okay, fine, thank you."。
It's related to the person who gave it to you.。
I watched a clip before.。
The person said, "I have a present in my bag."。
"I will give it to you."。
What is it?。
It's like this.。
If it's your idol or someone you like,。
and he gave you a heart filled with air,。
you will be very happy.。
It's free.。
The second element is related to the person's intention.。
It's not just a present from someone you like.。
The person has a thought about you.。
He has thought about your needs.。
He has thought about why you like him.。
The person's intention and time.。
This present is not just a physical object in front of you.。
It's from his heart.。
One day, I found my mom's bedside table.。
She put a birthday card I drew for her when I was young.。
I think I was about 6 or 7 years old.。
There was a Donald Duck on it.。
I drew it as if it was a little crooked.。
It wasn't too similar.。
It was a little kid's birthday card.。
She put it on her bedside table.。
I knew she valued it.。
What else would you put on your bedside table?。
It's not about how beautiful it is or how expensive it is.。
It's about the person's intention.。
Thirdly, what are the elements that make you feel touched?。
It should be useful.。
If it's not useful,。
even if he's thoughtful,。
you should put it in your heart.。
Recently, a friend of mine sent me a milk machine.。
It's used to make coffee.。
I told him I couldn't drink milk.。
I'm lactose intolerant, so I couldn't drink milk.。
Even if he was thoughtful and wanted to send me a milk machine,。
it's beautiful, but I couldn't use it.。
I told him to send it to someone else.。
So, there are several elements that make a gift meaningful.。
First, it's about who sent it.。
Second, it represents the person's intention.。
Third, it's useful.。
We've talked about gifts for a long time.。
On Christmas, we celebrate Jesus' birth.。
At the same time, we thank God.。
He sent us a big Christmas gift.。
This gift is Jesus Christ himself.。
Jesus Christ himself included。
a gift of love, a gift of life,。
a gift of peace, and a gift of hope.。
Let's look at 2 Cor. 10-12.。
Let's read it in English.。
1, 2, 3.。
Thank you, everyone.。
What is the background of this angel?。
Jesus Christ was already born in the manger.。
The angel suddenly appeared to a group of sheep.。
The sheep were very scared.。
The angel said, "Do not be afraid."。
"I bring good news to you."。
This is a good news.。
Why?。
Because David's city is where the king will be born.。
"For you have a Savior."。
He is the Lord Jesus Christ.。
If you read it in English,。
"a Savior, a Messiah, and a Lord."。
In the Old Testament, God is the Savior.。
Messiah is Christ.。
Christ is the Savior.。
The Israelites have been waiting for a long time。
to be saved by Christ.。
The Lord is like a king.。
He is above you, but he will protect you,。
guide you, and provide for you.。
God has given you this gift.。
So Christmas is a good news.。
This figure, the Savior, the Messiah, the Lord.。
We rarely see this.。
Usually, we see Jesus or Jesus Christ.。
It looks like a name.。
But it includes a Savior, a leader,。
a figure who will provide for us and protect us.。
Now, he is a little baby.。
In the 12th chapter, he is a baby in a baby bag.。
This is a symbol.。
You see, this is the appearance of this gift.。
This gift is like a gift we received。
after coming back to church.。
It is nothing special.。
We believe in Jesus.。
Everyone has a God in their heart.。
But why is this Christmas gift so special?。
Because this represents God's love.。
I want to use John 3, chapter 16。
to tell you that this is a gift of love.。
The gift is so special because。
it represents the heart of the person behind it.。
It says, "God loves the world."。
This gift includes God's love.。
I think we can't say that we humans don't need love.。
As humans, from a psychological perspective,。
we have a great desire to be accepted and to be loved.。
When you choose a team to compete,。
you always want to be chosen.。
You want to be chosen.。
Deep down, we have a desire to be loved.。
But when we were young,。
we wanted to be loved by our parents.。
When we grew up, we wanted to be loved by our teachers and friends.。
When we grew up, we wanted to have romantic love.。
We have different desires for love at different times.。
But we often find love in the wrong places.。
Because we have a great desire for love.。
Sometimes we even give in to love in the wrong places.。
But now, God says that He loves us.。
This is not a slogan.。
He says that He gives us limitless love.。
But human love is very limited.。
For example, my new friend came to my team.。
I love her.。
But she will say bad things about others in the team.。
I will tolerate her and tell her not to do that again.。
Next time, she will say bad things about others again.。
I think human love is limited.。
We like beautiful things, beautiful people, and talented people.。
We want them to be in the same team as us.。
No matter how patient we are,。
human love is limited.。
But God says that His love is limitless.。
What is limitless?。
The Bible describes His love as "long, broad, and deep."。
What is "long"?。
It is the limitless love of time.。
God loves you today, God loves you yesterday,。
God loves you today, no matter what you do,。
God will love you tomorrow, too.。
What is "broad"?。
We may do something wrong,。
and God will not forgive us.。
But God's love is much greater than our sins.。
God's love can cover a very wide range.。
What is "long"?。
I think it is the extent of His love.。
What is "deep"?。
No matter how deep we are in the earth,。
no matter how big our mistakes are,。
no matter how far we are from God,。
no matter how deep we are in the heart,。
God will find us in the deepest, darkest place.。
This is God's limitless love.。
What is "conditional"?。
We often think that teachers love those who have good grades,。
who help the school to win awards,。
who sing well,。
who are good at sports,。
who have conditional love.。
Sometimes, our parents are like brothers and sisters.。
Would it be that the elder brother is better,。
and the younger brother loves him more?。
But God says no.。
God's love is unconditional.。
Even if we are distrusted,。
God says He is still trustworthy,。
because He cannot deny Himself.。
God's love is simply love.。
So Jesus Christ is an unconditional love.。
Actually, for a long time,。
even though I was a Christian or a mentor,。
I found that I did not quite understand。
what is unconditional love.。
Until I was in the deepest, darkest place.。
God met me unconditionally with grace,。
with mercy,。
accepted me back,。
and loved me.。
Then I knew what is unconditional love.。
This is also an action-filled love.。
Jesus Christ Himself walked on the cross。
to die for us.。
So it is not just a talk.。
Many times, we say, "I love you."。
"I pray for you. Rest in peace."。
This is love.。
But Jesus Christ came to this world。
to suffer the greatest suffering。
so that we can be saved.。
This is an action-filled love.。
This is also a very precious gift.。
Why is it so precious?。
Because it is God's love for us.。
Even His only begotten Son.。
I don't know how much money you would spend。
to buy a gift for your friend.。
300 dollars?。
500 dollars?。
1000 dollars?。
God says His only begotten Son is the price.。
It is something you like very much.。
Sometimes, when we buy a gift,。
and we don't even want to spend extra time。
or extra effort,。
when I say, "I want to take what you like the most。
and exchange it for a gift,"。
how would you feel?。
A gift is expensive.。
It equates to how much you are willing to sacrifice。
to buy this gift.。
God is willing to give His only begotten Son。
to exchange this gift for us。
so that we can have a gift.。
Thank you, Maurice.。
Thank you, Gabriel.。
This gift is free.。
It is a gift, so it must be free.。
If you have to pay, it is not a gift.。
It is free, but it is not cheap.。
It represents God sacrificing His only beloved Son。
to exchange for our salvation。
to give us this gift.。
This gift is a very important gift.。
This gift determines your eternal ending.。
In John 3, verse 16, it says,。
"God has given His only begotten Son。
to give to them all that they may believe in Him,。
not only to perish but also to live forever."。
Do you accept this gift。
as determining your destiny?。
Where are you in your eternal journey?。
Are you going to perish?。
Or will you have eternal life?。
I think the same thing about receiving gifts。
is that you have to open the gift.。
God has put a gift in front of you today.。
You may not open it.。
If you don't open it, it will always be next to you.。
I may be one of those people.。
Although you have been in church for a long time,。
the gift is next to you,。
but you have never thought of opening it.。
You think the gift will always be there.。
How do you truly enjoy the gift?。
You have to take off the ribbon,。
take off the wrapping paper,。
and really open it.。
You have to let Jesus Christ enter your life.。
You have to receive it.。
What is receiving?。
John 3, verse 16 says,。
"All who receive Him will believe in Him."。
This is what it means to be a believer.。
This is what John says.。
How do you receive Jesus into your life?。
You may not think about this for a long time.。
You may think, "I am a believer. I will follow the Church."。
"I will believe."。
But will God put this gift in front of you again today?。
Will you say to Him, "Yes, I need this gift."。
"I need this love."。
I have been to different places in the world,。
even the wrong places,。
but I still could not fulfill the desire in my heart.。
Today, Jesus said,。
"I have come to give you hope, to give you life."。
He will give you and guide you。
in your life.。
And in eternity,。
Jesus said, "I want to be with you."。
"I want to be with you."。
"Do you want to be with me?"。
Jesus said, "I stand outside the door,。
and if you hear my voice, open the door."。
"I want to go to him. I want to meet him."。
"He wants to meet me."。
"Let us eat together."。
"Let us sit together."。
Jesus said, "Today, I put this gift in front of you."。
"I want to enter your home."。
"Will you recognize me?"。
In the midst of all this,。
is there anyone who will accept this gift today?。
Jesus is waiting for you.。
He wants to love you.。
It is not that we need God.。
It is not that Jesus needs us.。
It is that we need him.。
The God who is behind this gift,。
is thinking of you in his heart.。
He is someone you need.。
And he knows you need this gift.。
You need him.。
Let us pray together.。
Thank you, God, for giving us such a precious gift,。
Jesus Christ.。
Many times, we take it for granted.。
Ever since we were young, we have been going to church.。
We never thought about God.。
Your greatness, your goodness.。
Even though we go to church,。
we still find love in different places,。
in our schools,。
in different people.。
But we forget that God is love.。
And you let Jesus Christ come into your life。
to show us the image of your love.。
God, we pray that you help us.。
If we find love in different places today,。
why don't we tell you again today。
that we need you.。
We need you in our lives.。
We pray that you enter our lives.。
Lead us in our lives.。
Let us enjoy the blessings and abundance。
behind this gift.。
God, if we still have some sins in our lives,。
we have tried many different ways to overcome our sins,。
but we find that we cannot completely overcome them.。
God, we pray that you let us let go of our lives today。
and give them to you.。
Accept this gift from Jesus Christ.。
Because you can help us overcome all our sins。
and cleanse all our sins.。
God, we pray that you let us not choose any solution in this world.。
Today, we accept you.。
We choose you in all our choices.。
God, we pray that you come into our lives。
and lead us in our lives to be in peace, joy, and abundance.。
God, we pray that you let us accept this gift。
and help us to be a gift to others.。
God, we pray that you hear our prayers.。
In the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
