(silence)。
- Hello everyone.。
It's great to be able to see all your faces。
and also welcome those who are on YouTube with us.。
Now today we're on the topic of embracing grief and loss.。
And sometimes we don't think how we can embrace that.。
But you and I probably have experienced。
some sort of losses in our lives before.。
And there are definitely some more devastating one.。
And I can list a few like the death of someone close to us。
or divorce in the family。
or the loss of mental or physical health.。
It might be infidelity or infertility or even miscarriages。
and there are many other ones.。
And there's also some milder losses。
like saying goodbye to college friends。
or having a mentor that has disappointed us。
or maybe we wanted to get married。
and yet we're in our 30s。
and we wonder if that's gonna happen.。
Or kids have moved out or we've retired。
or we're entering into old age。
and we're realizing that we're not quite what we used to be.。
Now, of course, recently for all of us, COVID has hit us。
and the loss of just regular life,。
we can't even do dinner outside in a restaurant.。
So big or small, we have losses。
and we often either spend too much time dwelling in them。
and never really getting out。
or we move on too quickly。
and we seem to just brush it aside。
as if it didn't affect us at all.。
Only to find that they actually come back to haunt us,。
making us fearful or living in anger.。
And so today we're gonna see how we can embrace grief。
and loss in an emotionally healthy way.。
So let us turn to the Gospel of John.。
And in this chapter,。
we find that Jesus' friend, Lazarus was sick。
and he is the brother of Mary and Martha.。
So the sisters have already sent words to Jesus。
telling him that Lazarus is sick。
and Jesus loved all of them,。
but he purposely stayed there。
for another two days before leaving.。
And by the time he arrived to see Lazarus,。
he was already dead for four days.。
Now, many Jews came to comfort Martha and Mary。
regarding their loss of their brother.。
And in verse 20 and 21, it says,。
"When Martha heard that Jesus was coming,。
she went out to meet him, but Mary stayed at home.。
And she said, 'Lord,' she said to Jesus,。
'if you had been here, my brother would not have died.'。
Then Martha told Mary that Jesus is asked for her.。
And she quickly went to meet him as well.。
And when she got to Jesus, she fell at his feet and said,。
'Lord, if only you had been here,。
my brother would not have died.'。
When Jesus saw her weeping。
and all the Jews who came along to weep,。
he was deeply moved in spirit and he felt troubled.。
Then when Jesus went to where Lazarus was laid,。
Jesus wept as well.。
He went to the tomb and asked the people。
to roll away the stone so that it would not cover the tomb.。
And afterwards, Jesus prayed and said with a loud voice,。
"Lazarus, come out."。
And the dead man came out with strips of linen。
and cloth around his face."。
Now this was a miraculous scene.。
Now when we read this,。
we see that both Martha and Mary faced a great loss.。
Their brother and their vast people。
to tell Jesus about it before it happened.。
But Jesus didn't come in time.。
And isn't that what happens to us sometimes。
when we are in a great distress,。
we ask earnestly, "God, please help us."。
But it seems as if Jesus had either ignored it。
or purposely delayed his appearance.。
And by the time he comes, it seemed like it's too late.。
Now, both Martha and Mary said the exact same thing,。
which were, "If you had been here,。
my brother would not have died."。
And don't we say the same things when we face a loss?。
We say, "God, if you had only done something."。
And so this brings us to our first point,。
that in order to embrace grief and loss,。
we need to lament to God.。
We need to lament to him.。
Now, many times we think that when things happen,。
we cannot go to God with our frustrations,。
because you know what?。
It doesn't sound spiritual.。
And it's almost like as if it's not okay。
for us to be angry at God or to be upset,。
because well, you know, it seems to be disrespectful to God.。
And you know what?。
It also seems to make us look like we have so little faith.。
So what we used to do is that we tend to hide。
our authentic feelings.。
And, but the truth be told is that there is anger,。
there is frustration, and we even want to blame God.。
And what we see in this account is that it's okay。
to have those feelings, and it's okay to bring them to God.。
And although it does sound like we don't have reverence。
for God, or maybe even sounds like it's blasphemy,。
but the Bible tells us it's okay.。
And the Bible is full of lament, a place of intimacy,。
where we can tell our deepest secrets and our sorrow,。
usually only to the person that we trust。
and feel most secure with.。
And God is that person.。
And the thing we shouldn't do is to pretend。
or hide our feelings from God, but instead to go to him,。
tell him how painful it is,。
and tell him all the regrets that we have.。
And we need to be honest and just fall at his feet.。
And in this account, we see that Jesus was gentle。
with Martha and with Mary.。
And to Martha, he spoke words of hope,。
telling her that Lazarus will rise again.。
And to Mary and the Jews, he was so deeply moved。
and spirit and troubled that he wept with them.。
Now, Jesus wept, not because Lazarus' death,。
because he knew that he would be resurrected。
and he would rise again, but more likely he wept。
because he felt the sorrow of Mary and the Jews。
and sympathized with them.。
And so we have a God that sympathizes。
with the pain that we're going through.。
So when we bring our grief and our loss to God,。
we can rest assured knowing that God understands。
and feels your pain.。
And he, even though he knows what's gonna happen。
to you later.。
So not only is it okay to lament your losses to God,。
it's actually the healthy thing to do.。
And we actually come across many lamentations。
within the Bible, especially in the book of Psalms,。
where the Psalmist was just speak out his heart。
and tell God the struggles and have you forsaken me?。
That's what we hear a lot in the book of Psalms。
or in the book of Job, where he laments about his birth。
and he wished that he was never born.。
And so we see that it's okay。
and it's healthy for us to do that.。
So this is the first thing that we need to do。
to bring all those hurts and sorrow and pain。
and even anger to God.。
Now, I remember when I was nine。
and my dad was diagnosed with a serious illness.。
Then I later grew up to know。
that it was stage four liver cancer.。
Now, mom and dad went back to Hong Kong。
while I stayed with my grandmother。
and my sisters in Canada.。
And at that time I prayed every day inside the bathroom。
with tears rolling down, pleading, God save my father.。
And I was probably like Martha and Mary,。
praying and pleading with every cell of my body,。
hoping that God will show up and save my dad.。
And six months went by。
and it was finally the time for operation.。
The operation was successful, but his blood wouldn't clog.。
And when we heard the news in Canada,。
it was the most devastating day of my life.。
And it still is.。
And somehow at the funeral,。
I was surprised that I didn't have much tears.。
Maybe it went dry, I don't know.。
But for the next 20 years after that,。
I would not be able to speak about him without crying.。
I will look at the letters he last wrote to me。
when he was in Hong Kong getting treatment。
and I would cry every single time.。
But I never knew that I did not grieve properly。
about this big loss.。
I thought it was just gonna slowly go away.。
Until one day God allowed me。
to go through some healing prayers.。
And during those prayers,。
I was led by some experienced intercessors to lament.。
And I even asked them, is it okay?。
And they said, yes, go ahead.。
And I remember that it was just me pouring out to God。
and I said, God, I prayed to you.。
Why did you not save him?。
Why did my mother stop the blood transfusion?。
I would rather have used every penny。
that we have on the blood transfusion。
and live on the street with him.。
And why didn't my parents bring us back to Hong Kong。
so we can spend his last days together?。
And I remember at those time I was just wailing at the loss,。
the regrets, the what ifs.。
And that was actually over 20 years.。
So it really allowed me to see that,。
you know, grief doesn't necessarily go away over time.。
And if we don't lament properly in front of God,。
then we might never really get over it.。
And it will actually harm our current relationships。
or our lives.。
So lament to God,。
whether you have a devastating loss or something less major.。
Maybe you've married to someone。
and the marriage is totally opposite。
to what you have expected.。
Well, lament and pray to God,。
why did I marry such a person?。
Maybe your child is married off。
and well, you can lament to God too。
and say to him, why are they not here for me anymore?。
Maybe you didn't get to go into the school that you wanted。
or pass the most important exam.。
Lament to God, why didn't you help me pass?。
Where am I gonna go now?。
And maybe you've always dreamed to have your own family,。
but it's still single.。
So you can lament to God,。
why doesn't anyone love me or like me for who I am?。
You know, it's okay.。
Go to your room, bow down your head,。
lament, wail, let your greatest frustration and anger。
let God know because he will listen to you。
and he will weep with you.。
He is gentle as we see in gospel of John chapter 11。
that Jesus listens and he weeps with you and he loves you.。
Now I know this is intense stuff,。
but I do hope that we don't brush it off.。
Rather it's grief that you have withhold inside。
because it will vest and you will smell.。
It will hold you in bitterness or fear or pain.。
And I remember after lamenting and wailing to God。
that I was released.。
Somehow the pain was released。
and the sorrow slowly began to dissipate.。
And if the wounds are cut so deep, it might take some time.。
It might take more than one prayer,。
maybe even a few months of prayer,。
but slowly you will begin to see that you can call。
and begin to be okay with this loss.。
Now, just like the loss of my father,。
I thought it was dogwood,。
but it definitely wasn't until I properly lamented.。
So now I can talk about him without crying,。
not because I don't miss him,。
but because I've properly released those emotions to God。
and God has comforted me.。
And by the way, and you know,。
Pastor John and the team did not time this sermon,。
but today's February 19th,。
it would have been my father's 73rd birthday today。
if he had been alive.。
And I see this actually as a gift from God to me today.。
I love you, dad.。
And I know that you can hear me。
as you're with God right now.。
And so I often think that we're like a bottle。
and unless these emotions are released,。
then we can't necessarily receive the healing from God。
and the things that God wants to do in our lives.。
And so the second point about embracing grief and loss。
is to recognize that God has a purpose for it.。
Now in the story of Lazarus,。
Jesus explains the purpose in verse four.。
And he says that when he heard this,。
which was when Jesus heard about Lazarus' sickness,。
Jesus said this,。
that this sickness will not end in death.。
No, he says, it is for God's glory。
so that God's son may be glorified through it.。
Now you and I have to understand。
that God is not playing games or entertaining himself。
when he sees you or me having pain.。
And God did not bring pain or sickness into the world,。
but that the fall of mankind from the garden of Eden,。
after sin has entered into the world,。
our world is no longer perfect.。
Instead, God is using those loss to help us。
and also to give glory to himself。
and to display who he is to us.。
And so we must know that each loss is not meaningless.。
It has a purpose.。
Now you might say, well, it's easy for the story of Lazarus。
because he was raised,。
so that was a good ending in human eyes.。
Well, I just wanted to say,。
just because the ending of your loss isn't what you want。
does not mean that there is not a purpose there.。
And sometimes we might not even know the purpose。
while we're alive.。
But what we do need to know is that our losses。
and sufferings are not meaningless,。
that God is using it for his purpose.。
He can use it and he has been using it.。
And that at the same time, he is doing good to you.。
And from Romans chapter 8, 28, it tells us that,。
"And we know that all things," and it says,。
"All things, including the loss and the grief that we have,。
"got worse for the good of those who love him."。
And a lot of times we wanna stop there, right?。
But it also continues.。
"Who have been called according to his purpose."。
We've been called.。
And it's for his purpose.。
And so what we see is that things will work together。
for those who love him.。
But many a times we ask, I mean, does God love us?。
Are we those people?。
And in the gospel of John chapter 14, 21, it says,。
"Whoever has my commands and keeps them。
"is the one who loves me."。
So his commands, what are those?。
Well, we know what those are,。
which is to love our enemies,。
to forgive those who have wronged us,。
to love your wife, to submit to your husband,。
to give to the poor, honor your father and mother,。
and all the more.。
Now you might be worried and say,。
"Wow, that is a really long list."。
But the idea is that we aren't perfect people,。
and we probably won't get all of them.。
But the important thing is that we have a heart。
to move towards wanting to do more of these things。
because we love God.。
And if we do love him,。
then we do know that we've been called to his purpose。
and he will do good to us through all things,。
including the losses and the grief that you're going through.。
Now, of course, sometimes we feel that the loss is so great.。
How can anything good come out of it?。
Now, maybe years after the loss, you still don't understand.。
Maybe you've lost your child or a parent.。
It's very hard to understand what good will it do.。
But part of it is because we can't see the whole picture.。
We're limited.。
And the other part is。
because we're defining good for ourselves.。
Now, of course, we would pray for prosperity, good health,。
comfort, happiness, and peace and all that.。
That's quite all right.。
But what if his good for you doesn't look like that?。
I mean, what if he really wanted。
to strip you of your old self?。
What if it's to build your faith that could move mountains?。
What if it's to make you stronger as a person?。
And what if it is to let other people see Christ。
through you?。
And if all we ever wanted for ourselves。
or someone is the good in our eyes,。
then yes, maybe we don't see how this can be good for us.。
But to embrace grief and loss is to understand。
that there is a purpose that God is doing.。
And through that purpose,。
there is good that is gonna happen to us.。
Rather we identify it or not.。
So have faith that your loss and grief is not meaningless。
and God is using them for his glory and for your good.。
Now, for one thing, many of us who has gone through losses。
and very similar findings is that their understanding。
and love for God deepens.。
Now imagine for me, with me for a moment.。
Now with Martha, Mary, and Lazarus,。
and all the Jews that were present,。
after having gone through Lazarus' death and resurrection,。
can you imagine their understanding of who Jesus was?。
The Messiah, the eternal God,。
would never mean the same anymore。
than if they did not go through this event.。
And also for Job, at the end of all the trauma。
where he lost everything, his children。
and his wealth overnight,。
and his skin was just covered with disease.。
And you know what?。
At the end of that book, Job said,。
"My ears had heard of you, but now my eyes have seen you."。
It's like going through that loss gave him a revelation。
about who God is that he never knew before.。
Now he claims to have seen God。
through this great loss, right?。
And many a times I think we're able to as well.。
Or like the first generation of Israelites。
who lost the opportunity to enter into the promised land。
that God has prepared for them.。
And they had to wander for 40 years.。
I mean, what good will that do?。
And you know what?。
That loss of not being able to go in。
brought to them a new generation of faithful people。
that maybe if they've gone in straight away,。
that they would have just forsaken God like right away.。
We don't know.。
And so the second step to us being emotionally healthy。
after loss or grief is that we need to be able。
to see God's purpose and that God's doing good。
through that to us.。
And for my dad's case, I mean, I still,。
I don't believe I can fully comprehend。
what good came out of the loss,。
but I'm thankful that he and our entire family。
became Christians through it。
and allowed me to grow in my faith。
because even if the outcome would not be as I hope now,。
that I understand God's sovereignty。
and I saw his providence to my family over all this year.。
And it definitely built my faith to a point where I believe。
even if things go opposite to how I've hoped,。
I will still trust him,。
that I believe that I still will know that he's here。
and that he loves me.。
So embrace grief and loss by acknowledging his purpose。
and that he's doing good.。
Now, the third thing is that we need to embrace grief。
and loss with an eternal perspective.。
We need to have an eternal perspective.。
Now, when we have a chance to work through our emotions。
with our loss, after having worked through those emotions,。
like the first point,。
and after knowing that he has a purpose for us。
and doing good, we must then get up and keep going.。
So it's hard.。
How can we get up?。
'Cause sometimes the loss will hit us hard.。
But if we have an eternal perspective,。
it will give us hope to walk on.。
And in Lazarus' story, when Martha saw Jesus。
after subtly blaming him,。
literally saying, "Why were you not here?"。
In verse 22 to 24, this is what it was said.。
"Martha said, 'But I know that even now,'"。
which is when Lazarus was dead and he hasn't rise yet,。
"that God will give you whatever you ask.。
And Jesus said to her, 'Your brother will rise again.'。
Martha answered, 'I know he will rise again。
in the resurrection at the last day.'"。
Now, even though Martha had misunderstood。
what he meant by rise again,。
but in the midst of her crying and lamentation to God,。
Martha had hope of eternity.。
She had an eternal perspective.。
Now, by knowing that we have eternal life,。
we don't need to grieve to a point of utter hopelessness.。
We don't need to grieve like those who have no hope.。
And in 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 to 14, it says,。
"Brothers and sisters, we do not want you to be uninformed。
about those who sleep in death,。
so that you do not grieve like the rest of mankind。
who have no hope.。
For we believe that Jesus died and rose again.。
And so we believe that God will bring with Jesus。
those who have fallen asleep in him."。
Now, you might say, "Well, I know,。
I know he will give us eternal life,。
but this loss that I'm facing right now。
might not be life or death, but it still is killing me.。
This feeling is killing me."。
So how can eternal perspective help us face the loss today?。
Well, the first thing is that we need to hope。
because there is an eternal God who loves us.。
We can have hope because there's an eternal God。
who loves us.。
Let me explain.。
Now, if we know that we have an eternal God。
who is gonna give us eternal life, then he must love us.。
And so even in the midst of our pain and grief,。
we do not need to lose hope.。
We can have hope in this powerful God who loves us.。
And we can have hope that if Jesus overcame death。
and give you life, which is the most precious gift,。
how will he not help you with the lesser issues。
that you're going through?。
And so we can have hope that God who loves you。
to the point of death will not abandon you。
at this time of your loss.。
And he's with you now, and he will face it with you.。
And what a security it is that we can have in him.。
And the second thing that we,。
when we have this eternal perspective。
is to have hope in our final destination。
and see that everything that we're facing right now。
is temporal.。
It is not the end.。
And so the loss and grief that we face today。
become relatively less significant.。
It will give us strength not to be consumed。
by our situation to the point where we can't even get up.。
Now, there are some people who lose hope。
and can't really operate in their daily lives.。
Maybe they've quit their job or become addicts。
of some substance, or some might even commit suicide.。
But if we see that we have an ultimate home。
that we're going to go to,。
then all these things that we're facing now。
are only temporal and that we can finally not live。
for these things or for God and not ourselves.。
And we can have hope in the future that someday。
that there will be no tears, no pain, no separation.。
And we can realign ourselves with the presence。
to live for God and to get back up on our feet。
because we know that these things are temporal.。
And lastly, to have this eternal perspective。
gives us hope that the story is not finished.。
Now, your story is not finished。
because God continues to write it until it comes to pass.。
Now, I don't know about you, but when I read a book,。
when I read a book, I often can't wait。
and I have to skip to the end of the book。
to see what the ending is.。
And if I like the ending, actually I'll go back。
and I'll start to read the rest.。
And it's kind of like that.。
And God has already given us the ending of our life。
and it's a good one.。
So the loss, the grief,。
might only be just one chapter of that book。
or even just one paragraph of this great story。
that he is writing in your life until eternity.。
So let him have that sovereignty to write。
in however way that he wants,。
because you already know that the ending。
is eternity with God, and that is a good, good ending.。
So trust that whatever happens now,。
between now and the ending is only temporal.。
Now, I don't wanna minimize the loss of anything。
that you're going through now,。
but with an eternal perspective of eternal life。
waiting for us at the end of our journey。
will give us hope as we go through our losses and grief.。
We have hope because God who is all powerful loves us。
and is with us until the end.。
We have hope because this is not our home。
and everything that we face is only temporal.。
And we have hope because whatever it is。
that you're going through is not the end of the story.。
And the ending is good.。
And so we can get back up.。
We can go and continue this journey,。
the story that God has for me and for you.。
Now, friends, I know that it's not easy。
to go through griefing and loss.。
And anything that we need to grieve over and lose。
has so much sorrow and pain and anguish。
and frustration and sadness tied to it,。
that none of what we've said today minimizes those emotions.。
And that is in the point of the sermon.。
However, if we don't choose, I mean,。
if we choose to shove it down the carpet。
or dwell in it forever,。
we cannot embrace it in a healthy way that God wants us to.。
So first, I really encourage all of us。
to deal with these emotions of loss。
by bringing them to God.。
And we can do that through just lamenting to Him, griefing.。
Just go to your room, close all the doors,。
and just say, "God, I can't take this anymore."。
Let Him know, don't be afraid.。
We don't need to pretend to be spiritual。
or actually this is spiritual.。
To be intimate with God is spiritual.。
And Jesus will cry with you,。
and He'll be with you every step of the way.。
He will be gentle with you.。
He won't call you names.。
He won't get tired of you,。
and He will hold you in His arm.。
And secondly, when our emotions have been let out,。
let Him fill you with that faith。
that there is a good purpose behind it.。
And somehow He's gonna do good to you,。
even if you don't see it, even if you don't understand it.。
Trust that that is what He said,。
and that He is doing what He said.。
And lastly, never lose hope,。
not like those non-believing people,。
because in your situation,。
the resurrected Jesus has promised you eternal life,。
and your story's not done,。
so let Him continue to write it.。
And I'm sure it'll be a good one,。
because God is the author.。
Now, brothers and sisters,。
I can definitely tell you that it's easier said than done.。
And many times I go through losses and grief,。
even maybe this few weeks as well,。
but actually by putting these things into action。
and practicing to do these,。
even with our smaller losses,。
that it has given me great strength and hope.。
So I really pray that by processing your feeling。
and having realignment of our perspective,。
will allow us to just embrace grief and loss。
in a way that is healthy,。
in a way that will allow us to continue。
to do the will of God.。
So praying for blessings over all of you,。
and I just wanna pray together with you in the Lord.。
So let us pray now.。
Dear Heavenly Father,。
we know that we live in a fallen world,。
and that there's so much suffering。
and losses that we have to go through.。
But we thank you, Father,。
for you are a God who sympathizes with us,。
and you're a God who's willing to hold us into your arms。
and just love us to meet us where we are.。
And I pray for those who are mourning now,。
who even have things that happened to them years ago,。
and they might not dare to touch it.。
But Father, we pray together。
that your comforting hands will reach out to them,。
tell them that it's okay to go to you.。
And Father, we pray that even when we don't understand。
your purpose, that we continue to believe。
and have faith in you, and give us the eternal hope。
so that we can go on, can get up,。
keep walking into the path that you have prepared for us.。
Thank you, Father, for loving us.。
In Jesus Christ's name we pray, amen.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
