So I have the privilege of standing in for him on this Christmas Eve.。
John, Sandra, we miss you.。
We hope you're well.。
We hope you're wrapped up nice and warm.。
In England it's pretty cold here to be honest as well, right?。
Maybe even inside this church more than outside, but because of the air con.。
Does anyone remember the name of the first candle that Pastor Johnny talked about?。
Hope.。
Wow.。
Wow.。
That's a really good, hope.。
Well done, well done.。
The hope of the world.。
You hear this word quite a lot, right?。
And I feel as though we've been struggling with this word all these few years, at least。
since I've been in Hong Kong.。
We've just been like, "Oh, this has been such a hopeless situation.。
Things have just been so hard.。
It's hard to see the light at the end of the tunnel."。
And then suddenly now things are starting to kind of ease up a little bit.。
Suddenly there seems to be a little hope.。
So then I was thinking, "Well, wait, actually, why is that changing?。
Why am I feeling more...。
Who's feeling more hopeful now than they did maybe one year ago?"。
A few of us, right?。
And I feel it too.。
I mean, you see the light at the end of the tunnel.。
Macau's opening up.。
That's pretty fun.。
And then you're like, "Wait a minute.。
Why am I more hopeful today than I was last year?。
What is it...。
Wait, what is my hope actually based on?。
Is it based on the restrictions that are decided in the city?。
Is it my hope actually based on the economy?。
Is it based on how things are going in my life?"。
That's sometimes how we base where our hope is, right?。
And the word we use...。
When we think about hope, I think we actually mis-sell what the word is actually really。
standing for.。
I say, "Look, I really hoped that England would win the World Cup."。
Wow.。
That's a strong laugh, Charles.。
That's a strong laugh.。
I really hoped that the weather would get a little bit warmer.。
I really hoped that the markets would go back up.。
I really hoped that the rents would keep going down.。
I really hoped that all these things...。
And I realized actually the way I use hope often is actually akin to how I say, "I wish."。
I wish England would win the World Cup.。
And yes, it was wishful thinking.。
But how do you use the word hope?。
When was the last time you said, "I hope"?。
"Oh, I just hope that I get to see this person.。
I just hope that I get to see this person."。
And I think that's a really good way to use it.。
I think that's a really good way to use it.。
I think that's a really good way to use it.。
I think that's a really good way to use it.。
I think that's a really good way to use it.。
What we're saying is, "I wish."。
I want.。
When we look at the word hope, especially in the Bible, it has a much, much stronger。
connotation.。
Jesus is not just the wish of the world.。
He is the hope of the world.。
So therefore, we need to understand what that word actually means, this word hope.。
We see in Hebrews 11 where it says, "Faith is the assurance of things hoped for."。
So what we're seeing is that the word hope is actually closer to the word faith than。
it is to the word wish.。
I may wish that the weather still is nice tomorrow, but hope is a different thing altogether.。
When I say I have hope in something, it represents something much more steadfast, much more assured.。
That's what really hope is.。
And what we're going to do today is have a look a little bit about what that actually。
means, what the word hope means in the Bible, because it's not based on external circumstances.。
I can tell you that now.。
That is the final answer.。
It's not based on external circumstances.。
It's not based on the markets.。
It's not based on the weather.。
It's not based on which football team wins.。
It is based on something completely different.。
It's based on something that you cannot see.。
Because everything that we kind of try to become hopeful with is based on the things。
that we can see, right?。
Things that are happening in this world.。
But actually, the hope that is the biblical hope, the hope that transcends time, comes。
from things that we cannot see.。
And I'm going to do a short little message today.。
And the first passage we're going to look at is Romans chapter 8.。
So if you have your phones or your Bibles, I encourage you just to get them out.。
They're not going to be on the screen because it's just going to be a short little one.。
But Romans chapter 8, this majestic chapter in the Bible.。
Many scholars, many theologians love this chapter.。
It's their favourite one.。
It's packed with truth that can apply into every aspect of our lives.。
And Romans chapter 8, verse 24 says this, "For in this hope we were saved."。
For in this hope we were saved.。
And this kicks off three very short points regarding what actually hope is.。
One, the hope in this hope, this is the hope that saves.。
Number two, this is the hope that waits.。
And number three, this is the hope that lives.。
Saves, waits, lives.。
I'm going to unpack briefly each one.。
Romans chapter 8, verse 24 says, "For in this hope we were saved.。
Now hope that is seen is not hope.。
For who hopes for what he sees?"。
So this hope that we're talking about is one that can actually save us.。
This isn't just wishful thinking just to have our lives to be more comfortable to the way。
that we want them to be.。
But this is the hope that actually saves us.。
The apostle Paul talks about this in Ephesians chapter 2.。
He says, "You had no hope.。
You were separated from Christ.。
You were alienated.。
You were strangers.。
You had no hope.。
And without God in the world, you were dead."。
But now you're alive because you've been saved.。
And Romans 8, if you just rewind and scan up a little bit or scroll up a little bit,。
you'll see that from verse 18, what he's talking about is he's saying, "Look, the sufferings。
that I'm going through at the present time are not worth comparing to the glory that。
is revealed.。
Creation itself is longing, groaning, eagerly waiting for the revealing of the glory of。
God."。
What we're saying here, this is the hope that saves.。
What we're saying is that we are all waiting.。
We all have this hope that one day we will all be saved.。
One day creation itself will be redeemed.。
The whole of creation.。
You me.。
Jesus says in Revelation 21, "When I come back, I'm going to make all things new.。
I'll wipe away every tear.。
There will be no more pain."。
That's the hope that we're looking for.。
And that is the hope that is saving us.。
And it starts with us recognizing this Christmas that actually we need saving.。
The whole point of Christmas is that we need saving.。
That's why Jesus had to come.。
So it's the hope that saves.。
It is the hope that saves.。
We hear this term quite a lot.。
It's the hope that kills you.。
Right?。
You hear that.。
There's people telling you, "Stop hoping for things."。
But what they're saying is actually it's the wish that kills you.。
When you keep wishing for these things, it's not going to happen because life is all about。
disappointment.。
Life is all about handling those disappointments.。
So that's when they say it's the hope that kills you.。
But if you have a hope in something that is actually way more than what this world has,。
then it's a hope that saves.。
It's a hope that is assured.。
It's the faith that you need.。
So number one, it is a hope that saves you.。
Number two, it is a hope that waits.。
If you carry on, chapter 8, verse 25 says this, "But if we hope for what we do not see,。
we wait for it with patience."。
We wait for it with patience.。
This is the hope that waits.。
I'm an impatient person.。
I was just confessing the other week to a group of people that I do life with, and I。
was saying, "What's your worst fruit of the Spirit?。
If you look at all the fruits of the Spirit, which is the one that you really suck at?"。
And I said patience was my one.。
That's the one that really gets me.。
And if you look at 1 Corinthians 13 and the list of what love is, love is patient and。
I can't remember the rest because I can't get past the first one.。
I'm terrible with patience because I want things now.。
I want things yesterday.。
And we're in a culture that really does feed that.。
We had to renew my son's passport recently.。
I had to send it back to the UK, and they said, "It will be done very soon.。
It will be done in 10 weeks."。
I'm like, "This must be going by ship.。
They must be literally paddling towards the UK."。
I'm just like, "I want it now."。
Why?。
I don't know.。
I just want it now.。
I want to be able to watch it right now.。
I want to be able to do it right now.。
I want to be able to eat it right now.。
And in Hong Kong, that's the worst.。
And that feeds all my impatience.。
But true hope, true hope is one that is willing to wait.。
Because you know that it's coming, but it's not yet.。
But because you know it's coming, then you're filled with this kind of faith.。
You see, the reason why we're impatient is actually because we lack trust.。
The reason why we're impatient is because, you know, we're like, "God, actually, we don't。
believe that you know your timing.。
God, we think that you actually might be late."。
Can you see?。
When we're impatient for God, when we say, "God, when is that life goal going to be achieved?。
When is this going to happen?。
When is that going to happen?。
When is that?"。
What are we saying?。
We're saying, "Actually, God, I don't trust you."。
So patience is actually a key element to trusting in God, in faith, in hope.。
It is a hope that waits.。
So we instead are not filled with patience, not filled with hope and faith.。
We're filled with impatience and anxiety.。
And I've told this before.。
I'm the kind of person that likes to read the Wikipedia plot of a movie before I actually。
watch the movie, because I find myself getting so anxious when I'm watching these films and。
these TV shows, watching these characters go downhill, and watching these people break。
up, watching these people die.。
And I'm just like, "Oh, I just need to know the end already."。
I'm that person.。
Or maybe last week when I was watching the World Cup final, right?。
I mean, what a crazy game.。
For the first 79 minutes, it was all calm, and one team was dominating, and they were。
ready to go home.。
And then suddenly, the 80th minute, within 90 seconds, it's 2-2.。
And then you have 30-something minutes, 40 minutes of craziness and penalty shootouts.。
Everyone who watches penalty shootouts, whether you know the teams or not, you're like, "Oh。
my goodness, what's going to happen?"。
Don't we have that?。
Imagine if you went to watch that game now.。
Would you be filled with the same anxiety?。
No.。
You'd be like, "Oh, 78th minute, but something's going to happen.。
But it's going to be okay.。
Penalty shootout.。
Oh, it's okay.。
I know who wins."。
That's the same kind of hope we have, because as we look at this book here, we know the。
beginning and the end.。
And then we should be filled with that same calmness.。
It's like, "Things aren't going well right now.。
I know they're not going well.。
This Bible tells me that there will be many problems.。
If I flick to John 16, 33, it says, 'In this world you will have trouble.'。
But take heart, I have overcome the world, and I will come again."。
The power of Christmas isn't that Jesus came.。
It's that Jesus is going to come again, because this person that came 2,020 years ago is going。
to come again.。
And that's the end of the story.。
And because we know the end of the story, we're filled with calmness.。
We're filled with patience.。
We can wait.。
We can wait for something that we cannot see.。
We can wait for it with patience, because we know it's coming, because we know it's。
the end.。
Why?。
Because there was once a man that came to earth and said that he would die, and then。
he would rise again.。
And then it actually happened.。
And this man, Jesus, says he's going to come again.。
So we have hope.。
And so we can wait.。
And so we can be filled with peace and have no anxiety, because we can wait.。
And we can also tolerate.。
As we go through this story, as we go through extra time, as we go through penalties and。
the highs and lows of life, we can tolerate a lot because we see the end goal.。
We know that we will win at the very end.。
Right?。
So if you are an Argentina fan watching that game, you're like, "I'm cool.。
I'm relaxed.。
Oh my goodness, it's 2-2.。
They're scoring again.。
We could lose."。
No, we can't.。
Oh, I remember, because I've watched it.。
I know the ending of this.。
This is exactly what is going to happen.。
And you can tolerate a lot of the highs and lows because you know what's at the right。
at the very end.。
And there's this passage in 1 Thessalonians 4.13 that says, "We don't even grieve as those。
who have no hope."。
So what it says is, you can tolerate all these highs and lows, even the very lows, even the。
lows of losing a loved one.。
You can still grieve, but you won't grieve in the same way.。
Why?。
Because you have hope.。
Am I convincing you that this kind of hope is very different to the kind of hope that。
we talk about?。
This hope means that you can stare at death face to face, and you can grieve loss, but。
you still have an unshakable hope because you know that this is not the end.。
Everything is not right right now.。
Everything will be all right in the end.。
And if it's not all right now, then it's not the end yet.。
That is a hope that we have.。
One, a hope that saves.。
Two, a hope that waits.。
And finally, why do we have this?。
Because we have a hope that lives.。
As I said, Christmas is not because 2022 years ago a baby was born.。
That's not why we celebrate Christmas.。
That's not why we have these whole huge celebrations across the city and all these crazy displays。
in shopping malls.。
We celebrate Christmas and have all these things, not because a baby was born 2022 years。
ago, it's because that baby is still, that baby, now God, Jesus, is still alive now.。
Because this hope is one that lives.。
One Peter 1.3 says this, "Cause the living hope."。
Why?。
Because Jesus was born, he died, and then he resurrected again, and he remains with。
us today.。
We have a hope that lives.。
That's a big deal.。
And we sing about this all the time.。
We hear about it in church all the time, but never let ourselves take that for granted,。
that we actually have a hope that lives.。
He is truly the living hope.。
And that is the power of Christmas.。
That we don't worship this cute little baby that once existed 2000 years ago.。
No, we worship this because this baby turned into a man, a sinless man, and died for the。
sins of many, and then rose again.。
That's why we worship Christmas.。
That's why we celebrate Christmas, because we have a hope that lives.。
More importantly, we have a hope that lives in you.。
That same power that defeated the grave now lives in you.。
Through his spirit, Jesus Christ lives in you.。
And I'll give you one more passage today.。
In Colossians 1.27, Paul says this, "There is a mystery."。
And what's the mystery?。
"That Christ is in you, the hope of glory."。
Have we heard that before?。
Christ in you, the hope of glory.。
And I've always wondered, what does that actually mean?。
If we just briefly go back to Romans 8, you'll see that actually those who belong to Christ。
have his spirit within us.。
You right now have his spirit within you.。
Galatians 2 says, "It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me."。
Do you believe that?。
If you're a follower of Christ, if you believe in Christ, then basically you have his spirit。
within you.。
And that spirit, he is living.。
He is your living hope.。
Christ in you, the hope of glory.。
What does that mean?。
It means Christ is within you and he brings with him the hope of all the glorious things。
to come.。
Everything that is to come.。
And that's why scripture says, "Don't lose heart, for your outer selves are wasting away,。
but your inner selves are being renewed day by day."。
What you're going through right now are light and momentary afflictions compared to this。
eternal weight of glory that awaits you.。
All the trouble that you've had here, all the hopelessness that you've had here, is。
nothing compared to the glory that is coming.。
It is a hope that saves.。
It is a hope that we wait for.。
And it is a hope that lives.。
So let's use the word hope in the way that it's supposed to be used.。
Have you heard of another one, "We hope for the best"?。
That is the weakest kind of thing, right?。
You know, I'm just gonna...。
Students, I'm just not gonna study and I'm just gonna do the exam and I'm just gonna。
hope for the best.。
It's a very helpless one, isn't it?。
But if you're a believer, you can actually turn that one to have something that's much。
more significant, much more impactful, and much more meaningful.。
When you say, "I hope for the best," what you're saying is, "I have faith in what is。
to come will be better than anything here.。
I hope for the best."。
Another sentence, another quote, "Because the best is yet to come."。
We always see that, right?。
Sometimes people use that as their email signatures, "The best is yet to come."。
Because we truly believe the best is yet to come.。
So we as believers, we have this hope.。
It's because we hope for the best, because we know Jesus is coming again.。
That is why the best is yet to come.。
That is why we have this hope.。
That's what this Christmas is about.。
That's what Advent, coming towards Christmas, is about.。
Advent, the coming of Jesus.。
Advent starts in the dark and ends in the light.。
As he lit each one of those candles, it started dark and it ends light because we believe。
that Christ, the light of the world, the hope of the world, entered into the hopelessness,。
entered into the darkness.。
So we can have faith.。
We can have hope.。
And we can wait, because we know the end is going to be good.。
Brothers and sisters, may this Christmas season, may you be filled with a hope that is unshakable.。
May it be much more than just wishful thinking.。
May it be rooted and grounded in what Jesus did for you and what he says he will do again.。
Let's pray.。
Jesus we thank you.。
Thank you that you are the hope of the world and not a weak, wishful, helpless kind of。
hope, but one that is far beyond anything that we can ever wish for.。
We pray, Lord, that you would instill in us, instill in our hearts a renewed sense of this。
hope that isn't based on external circumstances, whether borders open up or not, whether COVID。
goes or not, whether markets go up or down or not, whether wars stop or not.。
We have a hope, not in anything in this world.。
We have a hope, a faith in what is to come.。
And may that hope impact every part of our lives.。
May that hope lift our spirits, lift our eyes, give us the strength to navigate all the challenges,。
to tolerate all the losses, the grief, the sadness, the heartbreak.。
Because of this hope, we can hang on, because we know you are coming for us.。
Thank you, Lord, for this Christmas, that you remind us that we get to celebrate your。
coming and we also get to look forward to, we get to hope for, we get to have faith in。
your coming again.。
Because of that, we are filled with joy, regardless of anything that we see.。
In your name we pray.。
(gentle music)。
