All right, good evening everybody.。
Good to see you here, some of you.。
And it is difficult times, I understand.。
Thank you for making the effort to come and worship with us.。
And for those online, thank you for making the effort to join us.。
And we welcome you to this family of worship together.。
So we've been going through the book of James, not the book of James, the book of Matthew.。
I was thinking about Matthew and then I saw Jesus is King and I just like came up with James for some reason.。
I don't know why.。
But Jesus is King in the book of Matthew and we've been going through this book.。
And it's been our third week now.。
And we went through firstly the King's record and John brought us through that.。
Looking at the genealogy, how Jesus came to be, the story.。
And then we also talked about the King's rise and Pastor James talked about the approval of Jesus Christ.。
Being assessed and then assembled.。
How he was approved at baptism.。
And then now today we're going to talk about the King's regulations.。
And so I have this picture up here.。
It's of Jose Mourinho.。
And it's a connection between me and John because we've passed one manager to the other team.。
And they might not be that happy because of it.。
But when a new manager or a new coach comes in, what usually happens is that there's a new way of doing things.。
There's a new style of play.。
The coach runs things differently.。
And we see that when Jesus comes into power, when he comes and he was approved, assessed, and assembled,。
he comes in with his own regulations as well.。
His own way of doing things.。
And we're going to look at five aspects today of the King's regulations.。
And it's from chapter 5 to chapter 7.。
We're going to go through the character of the King's people, the calling of the King's people,。
the new covenant of the King, the conduct of the King's people, and the new clarity of the King's people.。
And so we're going to go through firstly the sermon, the Beatitudes that are from the Sermon on the Mount.。
And now the Sermon on the Mount is one of the most famous sermons from Jesus.。
And I don't think I can do it justice with 30 minutes about how much content is in there.。
But I'm going to give you an overview of what Jesus is talking about and what he is confirming in his regulations through that sermon.。
And so read with me.。
Matthew chapter 5, "Blessed," 1, 2, 3.。
"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.。
Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.。
Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth."。
So firstly, we're going to talk about the new character of the King's people.。
New character of the King's people.。
Now, Pastor James went through the Beatitudes during the Chinese New Year.。
He did a great job of comparing the East and the West and how Christianity makes a difference in that.。
And if you want to look more deeply into that, please go into his sermon.。
I'm going to give you more of an overview of what is going on.。
So firstly, we see that the new character of the King's people, their attitude towards themselves is that they're growing in their dependence on God.。
"Blessed are the poor in spirit."。
It doesn't mean that they're financially poor.。
It means that they see the poverty of their own spirituality.。
They need God more and more.。
They're growing in their dependence on God.。
And there's a promise, right?。
With each blessing comes a promise that theirs is the kingdom of God.。
"Blessed are those who mourn," right?。
Especially those who mourn over their sinful nature.。
Mourning over persecution that comes because of their faith.。
"Blessed are those who are meek."。
Meekness is not weakness.。
Meekness is honor, self-control, standing for upright and goodness.。
So firstly, there's a new character.。
And the new character towards themselves is that greater dependence on God.。
They see their own spiritual need.。
And secondly, there's also an attitude towards God.。
And it says, "Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness."。
Hunger and thirst for righteousness.。
Their attitude towards God is that they're growing in their desire, their passion towards God.。
When's the last time you felt really hungry?。
When's the last time you felt really thirsty?。
Could you imagine that?。
That feeling that you had?。
Do you have that same feeling?。
Passion, hunger, thirst for God.。
That is the new character of the king's people.。
That they hunger and thirst for God, for righteousness.。
And lastly, there is a new attitude towards others.。
They're seeking mercy and joy within the company of others, rather than conflict.。
They're seeking joy.。
They have joy in the face of persecution.。
So the new character of the king's people, they see their spiritual poverty.。
They have more and more dependence on God.。
They hunger and thirst for Him.。
They have a passion for the Lord.。
And they're seeking peace with other people around them.。
There's a new character within the king's people.。
I remember one of my students from the University of Toronto, when I first met him,。
he's a student from Congo, and his name was Nathan.。
And when I first met him, he was very passionate towards studying.。
He wanted to be rich.。
He wanted to have status, to have that good job.。
Because he was brought up in that.。
His dad had a good job, and was bringing up the family to have those same sort of values.。
But as I got to know him more and more, and as he joined our group on campus,。
he started to become more and more aware of his own sins.。
His own need for God in his life.。
Instead of just devoting all of his time to studying, not that studying is bad, right?。
Please study, for those who are studying online, please continue studying.。
What he did was he trusted the Lord.。
He stepped out in faith, and he made time to learn more about God's Word.。
To hunger and thirst for God.。
And as he hungered and thirst for God, he started to share God with other people.。
I saw a transformation of his character.。
He became more and more of what Jesus was talking about here, and the Beatitudes.。
And so the first thing we see is that there is a change in the King's people.。
The King's people and their character.。
Secondly, we're going to look at the calling of the King's people.。
The calling of the King's people.。
Read with me here.。
You are the salt. One, two, three.。
You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt loses its saltiness, how can it be salty again?。
It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot.。
So firstly, we see that God, Jesus Christ, is saying that you are the salt of the earth.。
Right? And what is salt used for nowadays?。
Right? For flavor, right?。
Your steak doesn't taste as interesting if you don't have salt in it, right?。
It's also used back then as a preservative.。
There are many different uses of salt.。
But Jesus highlights something here, that if salt loses its saltiness, what is it good for?。
Nothing.。
And nowadays, we take that for granted, right?。
We have salt in the grocery store, right?。
And we wouldn't expect salt to have no saltiness, right?。
But back then, different minerals were mixed with the salt, and sometimes when that happened, it would lose its saltiness.。
And it would become useless.。
And so what Jesus is saying here, that those who are following him, those who are following the king,。
must preserve the saltiness, must preserve the character that comes with following Christ.。
We're called to be in this world, to be engaged in this world, but we're not of this world.。
And so we need to be preservatives.。
We need to persevere in our following of Jesus Christ.。
And next, he also says that you are the light of the world, right?。
And the light is not covered.。
You wouldn't turn on the lights and then put covers over it, right?。
That would be useless. Just turn off the lights, right?。
And Jesus is saying that the new character, the new calling of the king's people, is that they are to be light.。
They are to be distinctive.。
They are to shine forth, right?。
A light exposes the darkness.。
You know, light, UV, cleanses.。
Water.。
Light comes life.。
With light comes life.。
Jesus is calling us to be light, to shine forth, to be distinctive, to be of this world, to be in this world, but not to be of this world.。
And I remember just a couple, you know, just last week we were playing basketball and we met one of these non-Christian friends and we had a chance to have dinner with them afterwards.。
And it was actually me and Gabe.。
And we had dinner with them afterwards and he was asking us, "You know, you guys are kind of different."。
You know, you guys work, well, Gabe works in finance and I used to work in finance.。
People I know that work in these kind of fields, they usually have fake friends and they just all like care about money and selfishness, but you guys are different.。
You guys are different.。
Maybe he was just talking about Gabe.。
Maybe Gabe's just different.。
Not me.。
Gabe's a little bit different.。
I'm joking.。
But that's what we need to be as the king's people.。
Can we be in this world playing basketball with our friends, you know, eating with our friends and family, but can people see that there's something different about us?。
You know, it's easy to play basketball and, you know, not care about the other people you're playing with and just be super aggressive and curse and whatnot.。
You can do that, right?。
But we wouldn't be the salt of the earth, right?。
It's so easy to fall in the same sort of culture of those people, some people.。
I'm not saying everybody's like that, but it's easy to fall into that, the culture of the world.。
But can we maintain our character, the character of the king?。
Can we shine forth the light of the king?。
And so we went through two things, the character, the calling, and now we're going to look at the covenant of the king, the covenant of the king.。
And it reads here, "Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets.。
I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them."。
But to fulfill them.。
And what Jesus is saying here, and I'm going to summarize in five points, is that Jesus didn't come to abolish the law, right?。
Now, John sort of went through that, the book of Matthew was for the Jewish people, right?。
And the law was given, you know, by Moses to the Jewish people.。
He came instead, number two, point number two, is to fill the law.。
And what does that mean, that he came to fulfill the law?。
Jesus points out something here, that even the smallest parts of the law are important.。
They're significant.。
That spiritual status is measured by their obedience to the law.。
And that righteousness greater than the religious leaders of those times, the Pharisees and those who are the teachers of the law, are required to enter the kingdom of heaven.。
Righteousness that is greater than these religious leaders is required to enter the kingdom of heaven.。
Now, we know this about the old law.。
The law came from the law of Moses, right?。
It was, the consequence of it was sin and death.。
It was based on works.。
You had to follow this, you had to follow that in order to be accepted.。
It was about sacrifices.。
You brought your lamb, your goat to the temple to be slaughtered so that blood would be shed, right?。
The blood of animals would take on sort of our temporal punishment of our sins.。
However, this was temporary.。
It was powerless.。
The law was powerless to save, right?。
And so, Jesus is saying that that is the old covenant.。
It's important because we see God's redemptive work through that.。
But I am here to say that the law is temporary.。
I have come to fulfill it.。
I've come to fulfill it.。
And so, the new law is the law of the Messiah, the one who has come to save.。
It's not a law of sin and death.。
It is a law of the spirit of life.。
The Holy Spirit has come and dwelled among us.。
It's not just about our works anymore, but it's more importantly about our faith in the Messiah,。
that he has come to save us.。
Instead of many sacrifices, it is the one ultimate sacrifice.。
And that is Jesus Christ himself.。
Once and for all, his blood shed on the cross so that he could save us from the condemnation of sin.。
Jesus comes with a new covenant.。
He has fulfilled the Old Testament, the old laws.。
You know, the old laws were written to Israelites, right?。
And that was already God raising the bar.。
You know, they lived amongst people that were, you know, quite violent at those times.。
And God already raised the bar of morality during that time with the law.。
And we're going to see next, Lee, the king's regulations.。
In the king's regulations, the conduct of his people.。
The conduct of his people.。
Now, the new standard of the king, he talks about that in terms of bad conduct and also good conduct.。
And so back then, they had standards according to the Old Testament on different topics,。
such as murder, adultery, divorce, oaths, retaliation, and enemies.。
And in the law, it was following the Ten Commandments.。
Don't murder, right? On the topic of murder, don't murder.。
You should not murder.。
You should not commit adultery.。
On the topic of divorce, it was the husbands must give a certificate of divorce.。
Oaths, don't make oaths.。
On retaliation, this is the famous one, right?。
Give an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.。
Just return exactly what your enemy has done towards you.。
You do it back to them.。
And for your enemies, hate your enemies.。
But in this Sermon of the Mount, Jesus gives a new conduct for his king's people.。
And he raises the standard.。
Now, it's not only don't murder, if you turn to the slide, it's not only don't murder.。
Jesus is not just talking about your actions.。
He's talking about your thoughts.。
That even in your thoughts, you can have bad conduct.。
And so he goes to another standard and says,。
"Don't even be angry with your brothers and sisters.。
Don't even be angry."。
And on the topic of adultery, it's not just your action of don't commit adultery.。
Don't even lust.。
Don't even have that first thought of lust.。
That's where Jesus is targeting, is that where sin starts is in our minds.。
Jesus also raises the bar on what is acceptable for divorce.。
Jesus says that it's only valid in cases of sexual immorality.。
He's raising the level, ethical and moral standards, right?。
Back then, they were used to giving oaths.。
But Jesus is saying, "Let your yes be yes and your no be no."。
In terms of retaliation, face the person that has wronged you and turn the other cheek.。
Turn the other cheek.。
Jesus calls us to love our enemies instead of hating them.。
Jesus is raising the bar, changing the standard.。
The people of that time must have been like, "Whoa.。
You want me to do this?"。
It would have been shocking for them.。
Jesus doesn't only have new standards on bad conduct, which are these sort of things.。
But Jesus also raises the bar in terms of good conduct.。
We see in the next slide that giving, people loved to give back then.。
Jesus tells of that story of the widow and that famous teacher of the law。
who goes into the temple and drops in a lot of coins.。
In that jar, it would ring.。
But the poor widow came and just gave one.。
Jesus is saying here that the old standard was giving to the needy publicly.。
Give to the needy or the temple, the church, whatever, publicly.。
Do things for the approval of others.。
That was their old way of thinking.。
Prayers were prayed wordly with many words in public.。
Fasting, they wanted to fast in public so that people could see the changes of their face.。
And be like, "Yo, what's going on?" "Oh, I'm fasting.。
I'm so tired. I'm so hungry. I'm fasting. Look at me."。
But Jesus gives a new standard.。
The new standard is instead of giving to the needy publicly, give in secret.。
For those who give to the public have already received their reward from people.。
The praise of people.。
But if you give in secret, you will receive from the Father himself.。
The Father will see and reward you accordingly.。
Prayers are not about how wordly they are or how public they are.。
Instead, Jesus is saying that God cares more about your heart,。
the words inside your heart, and how genuine they are towards the Father.。
And Jesus is also saying it's not about how many times you fast。
and how public you are with that.。
Jesus is telling us to fast in secret.。
Jesus' new conduct, he's telling the people that his new conduct,。
their new conduct should be genuine, of the heart, towards the Father,。
not to please people.。
So Jesus raises the standard of bad conduct, of good conduct.。
And this is similar to sort of what Martin Luther did with the 95 Thesis.。
Back then, most of Europe was sort of illiterate.。
They didn't really read the Bible directly.。
And so they trusted the popes, the priests of that time,。
to tell them how they could go into heaven.。
And so the standards back then was sort of like,。
oh, you have to give money to the church,。
you have to come and see these relics and give tribute to the,。
I don't know, the birthplace of Jesus or the coffin of Mary。
or something like that.。
I'm just making these things up.。
And Martin Luther nails these 95 Thesis to the door of the Catholic Church。
and says, "No, faith is what gets us into heaven,。
not all these good works and giving to these different things。
and paying tribute to these physical things.。
No, it's about faith in Jesus Christ, not about works.。
It's about Scripture, the Bible, what the Bible says,。
not just what these different priests are coming up with."。
And so Martin Luther was counter-cultural to that time,。
and Jesus is also counter-cultural to his time。
in raising the bar and the standard.。
And he emphasized that sin can come from our minds, our thinking,。
and we need to first stop it from there.。
Jesus also raises the conduct of good works,。
that good works must be directed towards the Father,。
not towards the approval of people.。
So we looked at the character of the king's people,。
the calling of the king's people, the king's covenant,。
the new conduct of the king's people,。
and lastly, we're going to look at the clarity.。
The new clarity of the king's people.。
Before, the old view was that we stored up treasures in heaven.。
We filled our barns so that there would be so much food,。
and we can see that right now.。
When people are panicking, they go to the store,。
and all the stores are empty now.。
They're trying to store up for themselves.。
They're worrying about their own problems.。
Back then, they also worried about their own problems.。
But Jesus says that the king's people do what instead?。
Instead of focusing on storing treasures just on earth,。
there's a new focus, a clarity.。
There's an eternal perspective.。
Instead of storing just treasures on earth,。
the king's people store treasures in heaven.。
Heaven where moth and dust do not destroy,。
where thieves do not come in and steal.。
Things of this earth will go away, as Jesus says.。
The things of eternity, the things that we store up for the Lord,。
will last forever.。
There's a new clarity, a new perspective for those who are following the king.。
In those times, they used to worry about their own problems.。
But Jesus says, "Do not worry."。
Instead, we must seek first his kingdom and his righteousness,。
and all these things will be given to us.。
There is an eternal perspective, a new way of seeing things,。
a clarity for those who are the king's people.。
Last year, we went on an awesome mission trip to the Philippines.。
One of the girls that came on this trip,。
she actually grew up in this church,。
but she was never really involved in this church.。
Actually, she was sort of in and out of the church。
because she had schooling in Canada.。
When she came back for the summer, she didn't really feel like she fit in.。
So, she was kind of in and out of the church.。
But last summer, she decided to give it a shot,。
to really get involved in church.。
As she got involved more and more in church,。
I saw God changing her perspective.。
God changing her perspective.。
Before, she was very worried about school, very worried about her future.。
But now, she wanted to do what?。
She wanted to trust God with her future.。
So, she went on a mission trip for the first time,。
and she shared the gospel with somebody,。
and led them to Jesus for the first time.。
That changed her perspective on life.。
That it's not just about worldly things, or school, or my future job,。
but that God could use me for His purposes and for His kingdom.。
During our summer camp, God even called her.。
We had a dedication night,。
and she offered her life to full-time service of the Lord.。
So, I saw within this girl, who was sort of in and out of our church,。
not super committed to the faith,。
become a person that truly valued eternal things.。
Sharing the gospel, even giving her part of her summer to go on a mission trip.。
And in her future, she wants to commit her life to store up treasures in heaven.。
And so, we went through the character of the King's people,。
the calling of the King's people,。
the new covenant of the King,。
the new conduct of the King's people,。
and the new clarity of the King's people.。
And what does it mean for us today, during these times?。
How can this, the Sermon on the Mount,。
what Jesus is saying in these two chapters, three chapters, five to seven,。
what does it mean for us today at this time?。
Firstly, do we have the character of the King's people?。
Do we have the character of the King's people?。
Do we see our spiritual poverty, to be humble, spiritually hungry,。
to seek righteousness, and to be at peace with others?。
Trial brings out our true character.。
Trials bring out our true character.。
And during these hard times, are we depending more and more on God?。
Or are we just turning to our own ways, trusting in ourselves?。
During these times, are we seeking God more and more?。
Are we seeking God more and more?。
Are we showing more and more mercy and peace to those around us?。
Are we exemplifying the character of the King's people?。
Are we exemplifying the character of the King's people?。
Secondly, have we taken grasp of the King's calling。
to be his salt and his light?。
To be in this world, but not to be of this world.。
To be like salt, to persevere, right?。
To maintain the character of King's people,。
and to be his light, to shine forth his goodness.。
We have an amazing opportunity right now,。
in the face of this pandemic, to shine forth his light.。
Like what we're doing with the campaign to hand out masks,。
to hand out, you know, yeah, sanitizer.。
We have an amazing opportunity to share his word,。
to be the light of Christ.。
Are we doing that? Are we doing that?。
Do we understand and are we living the new covenant?。
Do we know what Jesus is talking about。
when he says that he is the life, the truth, and the way?。
He is the fulfillment, fulfillment of the law.。
Fourthly, are we acting in line。
with the conduct of the King's people?。
Jesus raises the bar.。
Are we living under that same conduct?。
Is Jesus' standards our standards?。
Have we aligned ourselves to him?。
And lastly, do we have clarity on eternity?。
Do we have clarity on eternity?。
We are in this world, but we are not of this world.。
We are citizens of heaven.。
Do we have an eternal perspective?。
Are we seeking to store up treasures in heaven。
and depending on God more and more?。
Let's have the band come up,。
and I'm just going to close us off in prayer.。
Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word。
that even though it was written 2,000 years ago,。
it still applies to us today.。
And I pray that, Lord, we would be your salt and your light.。
Teach us, Lord, how to shine forth your goodness,。
to be hope to the hopeless.。
Lord, help us to have an eternal perspective。
so, Lord, we wouldn't just be focused on the things of this earth,。
but, Lord, have an eternal perspective。
to store up treasures in heaven, to serve you.。
Bless us, Lord, during these times.。
In Christ's name we pray. Amen.。
