Good evening everyone, good to see you all.。
There's a lot of things that have been happening full stop in the world.。
Christina and I and our family have been in Hong Kong for four and a half years now,。
and it's just been non-stop change anyway.。
But I can speak to you honestly about this.。
I don't know if it's something that we're going to be able to do.。
I don't know if it's something that we really, really wanted to do.。
But there's one thing that has been driving Christina and I and our hearts throughout all of our time.。
The reason why we came to Hong Kong actually was to pursue God's heart.。
At that time we didn't know that there was going to be something called the protest.。
We'd never been in one ourselves.。
I didn't know what an extradition bill was.。
I didn't know what LegCo was.。
I just spelt Lego wrong.。
So I didn't know what COVID was.。
I didn't know what starting a church really meant.。
And I can tell you honestly now,。
I've spoken very openly with some fellow leaders in this church as we've been talking and praying about this,。
is quite frankly I don't know what I'm doing.。
But I know exactly what I'm doing.。
I know that doesn't make sense.。
But that's been my life.。
So welcome to my life.。
But part of that is just going, actually God, what is your heart?。
What is it that you want we as your church to know during this time?。
It's a tumultuous time across the world.。
The church is changing itself.。
The young people are leaving our churches.。
And actually we don't really know what to do.。
And I'm here to say, look, neither do I.。
But I know that God has a heart for them.。
And I know God has a heart to reach them.。
The mission and organization that I'm still going to be part of is Young Life.。
And the motto is how do we go to where the young people are at?。
And how do we earn the right to be heard?。
How do we not just be a church service?。
I know some of us are visitors here and welcome.。
And this may be your first time, but I hope it's not your last.。
But I also want you to know that this isn't just a service that we're running.。
Because if it was just a service that you wanted,。
there's plenty of places that you can go just to find a service.。
In fact, there's a service that you can attend at home.。
As long as you type in youtube.com,。
you'll be able to find some sermons that are much better than what I'm about to share.。
But that's not really the point.。
I don't think that's the heart of God.。
As I look at the scriptures, as I look at this, I think there's more to it.。
Because if it was just a lesson that we needed to learn,。
I don't know if Jesus needed to come back to do it.。
If it was just a set of doctrine we needed to memorize,。
I don't think we needed the Holy Spirit.。
And I don't think it would have caught fire to the point where it outlived the Roman Empire.。
There's something more than just a service, a lecture.。
The original word for church is ecclesia, is gathering, and it's an assembly.。
It's a body of people who are all confronted by the same thing.。
And I wanted to share today, we've been going through the heart of Jesus in this series.。
And we started, Johnny was talking about the heart, the touches.。
That Jesus goes beside the broken, the lepers even, and he's willing to touch them.。
He's willing to heal them.。
He's willing to stand beside the broken and be filled with compassion.。
And he's also the one who's looking for faith.。
And I shared about this, about the centurion.。
He's looking for people who are willing to put their complete faith in him.。
2 Chronicles 16, 9, the Lord is just going to and through the earth,。
looking for people whose hearts are blameless, and he will strengthen them.。
John 4, Jesus is talking to this woman at the well, and he's saying,。
"The Father is looking for those who will worship him in spirit and in truth."。
He's looking for these people.。
And last week, Michelle talked about, actually, he has a heart to accept.。
Those people who are broken, those people who are sinners, he welcomes them in.。
And we as a church, who are also welcomed by him, are then supposed to welcome other people.。
Today, the title of the talk is "A Heart That Confronts."。
A heart that confronts.。
Confront, we often use--we think about in an almost negative way.。
It's someone, when Kelly's done something wrong,。
then I'm going to figure out how I'm going to confront you.。
But really, confront is just, actually, I want to bring this situation to the forefront,。
and I'm going to talk about it with you face-to-face.。
That's what confront means.。
Who's done the Enneagram test before?。
Some people have done the--oh, not really many.。
Enneagram test--Charles, good to see you.。
What Enneagram are you? Do you know?。
Do you remember?。
So there's different--there's nine.。
There's different personality traits.。
Of course, with some of these tests, it's kind of like you are who you say you are.。
As you're answering them, "Oh, do you like hosting parties?"。
"Yeah." "Are you a friendly person?" "Oh, sure I am."。
You answer the questions.。
Of course, some people will answer them properly.。
Anyway, the whole point is that there's nine characteristics,。
nine personalities that we kind of generally fit into, kind of.。
And one of them is Enneagram 8.。
It is the challenger.。
You had people in your life who liked to challenge.。
You say something, you're like, "No, I don't agree with that."。
People in your workplace, when you're in a meeting, you have ideas.。
Next to the challenger, number 8, is number 9, and he's the peacemaker.。
Well, she's the peacemaker.。
She's like, "Everyone, just--everyone, just--it's all okay.。
Let's just agree."。
And then the challenger will go, "Well, I don't agree that we should just agree.。
I think we should agree to disagree, and I think we should talk about it,。
and I think we should spend a lot of time debating about this。
because that's how we'll get better."。
And they're not wrong, but sometimes they can come across as jerks.。
But actually, the heart of it is actually--there's actually good things.。
So we think about being confronted, and I realized this.。
And as I was preparing this message, I realized that Jesus is a confronter.。
Jesus, kind and compassionate, with his blonde hair and blue eyes,。
floating because he doesn't have feet, and he just floats and loves on people。
and heals everything that he touches, is not quite the Jesus of the Bible.。
Jesus confronts.。
Jesus goes to people where they're at, earns the right to be heard,。
and then speaks into that and confronts them.。
You see in John 2, he's just starting his ministry.。
He's just been to a wedding, and he's had a great time.。
He wants to just chill with his friends.。
Mom says, "Hey, there's a problem with the wine.。
Can you deal with it, and can you sort it?"。
And then he says, "Mom, I don't really want to.。
It's not really time. Can I do it later?"。
And then Mom just says, "No. Do it."。
And then he does it.。
And then he goes to the temple, and he sees all these people。
who are completely using the temple for the wrong reason.。
They're supposed to be there to worship God,。
and yet they've turned it into this currency exchange place。
where they're selling goats and lambs and everything。
for convenience and for profit, and then he just loses it.。
So you see this kind, compassionate, gentle Jesus suddenly completely turn。
because it touches a nerve.。
What is that nerve? What is it, the thing that he cares about the most?。
Luke 4, verse 44, he says this.。
"This was the reason I came. For this reason I was sent."。
What was that reason?。
"I must preach the good news to the other towns as well."。
I think that's what he confronts us with.。
He confronts us with the good news.。
He confronts us with the gospel.。
The problem here is this.。
I know this for sure.。
I think there are people in this room here with us。
who have not been confronted with the gospel.。
Have a think now what that even means for you.。
Well, let's just dial it back a bit if it's your first time。
and I'm not trying to freak you out here.。
What is the gospel?。
The gospel is just good news.。
And Kelly shared about this so eloquently as she was leading.。
The good news is that someone paid the price.。
The cross was supposed to be ours.。
The death was supposed to be ours, but someone came in and said,。
"I've got it. Put it on my tab."。
That's the gospel.。
But here's the problem.。
I think there's people here who haven't been confronted。
with the gospel and I'll tell you why.。
Because before you are able to accept and embrace。
and welcome this good news, you first have to realize。
that there is bad news.。
Otherwise, the good news means nothing.。
Does that make sense?。
So we need to know what that bad news is.。
I was just having a breakfast with a dear friend。
who's just been on the journey of the faith。
and he's just trying to figure things out.。
And he says, "You know what, James?。
You know what's happened?。
I'm losing my hope in humanity as I find out more。
about the faith."。
And I was like, "Whoa. Tell me more."。
He said, "Well, before I found out about this stuff,。
I was kind of like, 'Hey, I'm just a good person.。
Considering starting a family, you know, bring a good person。
into this world and we'll just kind of do good things.。
We're kind of good people.。
Pay all our taxes and don't push old ladies.。
We're okay. We're good.'。
But as I find out more about the gospel,。
as I'm seeing the world as it is,。
I'm getting more and more discouraged。
because this world's not a good place.。
There's darkness.。
It's not as good as I thought it was."。
And I was like--well, one part, I was like, "Oh, man.。
My sermons are not helping you at all.。
This is going the wrong way."。
But then I realized, actually, no, it's going the right way。
because in order for us to be confronted with the gospel,。
the good news, we first have to understand。
what the bad news is.。
In order for us to feel overjoyed that, man,。
someone came to save us,。
someone came to pay the whole thing for us,。
we first have to understand that we're in debt,。
that we're drowning.。
And so he's starting to get it.。
He's like, "You know what else there is?。
The world is a dark place, but I've started noticing。
that I'm a bad person."。
And it made me think of the Tim Keller quote.。
What is the good news?。
It is that I'm far worse than I imagined,。
but far more loved than I ever dare dream.。
As I encounter the gospel,。
as I look at the Jesus of the Bible,。
I start to see, man, he's confronting me。
with something that's very interesting,。
with bad news, that actually I thought I was doing well,。
I thought I was a good person.。
But as I search more, I realize that actually。
I'm not so good at all, and that's bad news.。
And I fall short of the glory of God,。
and I am not holy because we're told to be holy,。
but I'm not.。
But there is good news.。
He saved us.。
Ephesians 2 talked about this.。
He's saying, actually, you were dead in your trespasses and sins.。
You were following the course of this world.。
You were following the prince and the power of the air.。
You were satisfying all the desires of your flesh.。
That's us.。
He carries on later.。
He says, you remember at one time,。
you were lost without hope.。
You were strangers to the promise.。
You were separated from Christ.。
But then the biggest two words that you can see in Ephesians 2,。
I think, is, but God.。
But God, rich in mercy,。
because of the great love that he had for us,。
made us alive together.。
That's the good news.。
And it's interesting, because as we look at the scripture。
that we have today, my question for you is,。
have you been confronted with that good news?。
Have you been confronted with that gospel?。
As we think about what this gathering, KFCI gathering,。
looks like, I look at Acts 2.。
I look at the energy that they had,。
that there were people just coming in filled with just joy。
and power and living in a way that was completely supernatural。
and different to the way of the world.。
What was the key?。
What was the recipe?。
The gospel.。
The good news.。
And they were cut to the heart, Acts 2.37.。
They were cut to the heart.。
My question to you, brothers and sisters, today is,。
have you ever been cut to the heart?。
Because if you haven't, then maybe we're still waiting。
for that moment for the Lord to confront you.。
But don't be afraid.。
It doesn't end on bad news.。
The point of the gospel is that it will cut us to the heart,。
but then it will fill us with a joy and an aura and wonder。
that will completely change everything.。
There was a sinner.。
There was a woman.。
She tried relationships lots of times, five times, in fact,。
and she'd married five times, and finally she gave up on that.。
And then so she started just living with the sixth man,。
and then she gets confronted by Jesus.。
This story is in John 4.。
No one likes her.。
The whole of the town avoids her, and she avoids them。
because of the shame.。
The women would go to get the water in the morning or at night。
because it's simply too hot.。
It's kind of like this weather.。
You're not supposed to be walking outside around noon,。
but she's going to get water at noon.。
Why?。
Because she's avoiding people.。
And yet, little did she know that she gets confronted。
by a man, but not just any man.。
And this confrontation that he calls her out on。
doesn't lead to shame, doesn't lead to embarrassment,。
doesn't completely just break her, and she's in tears,。
and she just wants to hide in a hole.。
She doesn't do that.。
What does she do?。
I'll tell the long story short.。
Jesus says, "Hey, go and find your husband."。
And she's like, "I don't have a husband."。
And then he's like, "I know.。
And the one you're living with isn't your husband,。
but you've been married five times, so you've been trying hard at this."。
And then they have this long conversation,。
and he talks to her about how actually there will be a moment。
where she will be able to worship in spirit and in truth,。
and that moment is now.。
She is confronted with the gospel, and what happens?。
She can't wait and run back into the town and say,。
"Everyone, everyone, everyone, you know how bad I am,。
but there's a man who knew all of that and told me everything。
that I've ever done, but I feel no shame.。
Come and see.。
Come and find him."。
I'll tell you what confrontation leads to.。
Confrontation leads to transformation.。
If you haven't felt that cut to the heart,。
maybe you've not been confronted,。
and maybe that's why you have not transformed yet.。
Maybe that's why you're still struggling with the same things。
that you're struggling with.。
Maybe that's why you're actually not filled with the joy of living,。
the Christian living, which is basically knowing that God is real,。
that He's here with you, and that He loves you,。
but maybe you need to be cut to the heart and undone by the gospel,。
and you'll be able to experience that.。
We see a very interesting thing that happens here.。
Luke 7.。
Charlotte, I'm going to try my best to read out the verses。
as quick as possible so you can find it, okay?。
But the next one isn't on there.。
Luke 7, just to set the context, Jesus' ministry is gaining steam.。
It says 17--actually, I will read the 17 first.。
Luke 7, verse 17, it's not on the slides.。
It says, "And this report about him spread throughout the whole of Judea。
and all the surrounding country."。
So Jesus is doing stuff and it's starting to spread.。
People are hearing about this.。
He opened his thread up, and everyone's following him.。
They're trying to figure out what he's trying to do,。
relating to the young people.。
Paul's laughing, he knows.。
And so what happens next is this.。
Now, you know that his archrival are the Pharisees.。
I like to call these the professional Christians.。
Actually, what breaks my heart is I think there are a lot。
of professional Christians in Hong Kong, even in our churches.。
People who have said, "Oh, we're going to do this,"。
but then it ends up just being for a living,。
ends up just to run a corporation, a business, a ministry.。
We put the programs over the people, and we lose the heart。
of what we're actually trying to do.。
But anyway, so there's this professional Christian, Pharisee.。
Him and his boys are hearing about all this stuff.。
And admittedly, to be honest, I actually think they get a bad rep。
because if I was that person at that moment as a professional。
Christian in the town, Pharisees were rich people。
who were also religious rulers.。
But who is this guy?。
Why is he causing all this kerfuffle?。
Why are all these people following him?。
And why are they all completely transformed?。
Even the sinners are completely turning around.。
So he does the next thing, which I think is pretty brave of him.。
[speaking in foreign language]。
Bring him in and bring him to the house and have a meal.。
But he tries to confront Jesus, and he does it with his boys.。
So he welcomes them into his home, and they sit around,。
and that's the context of what he's trying to do.。
And we find out more about that.。
So you have this Pharisee, and this story here,。
this passage here is really about three people.。
It's about Jesus, it's about the professional Christian,。
and it's about the professional sinner.。
This is the beginning of a really funny joke that I haven't written.。
What happens when Jesus, a professional Christian,。
and a professional sinner have dinner together?。
We find out what happens exactly.。
So here we go, and I'm going to start reading some of it for you.。
Luke 7, verse 37, let's go, 36.。
One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him,。
and he went into the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table.。
So this isn't him being an adolescent.。
This is how they sat when they had dinner.。
So they wouldn't be sitting upright.。
They would have these long chaise longs that they sit on,。
and they'd sit like this, and they would tuck their feet around the back.。
You'd just lean on your left elbow while you're picking off food.。
That's what he does.。
So Jesus sits down, and this is the custom.。
He sits down, and he reclines at the table, and he starts eating.。
But then the problem appears.。
Verse 37, "And behold, a woman of the city who was a sinner,。
when she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house,。
brought an alabaster flask of ointment."。
Let's stop there.。
So this woman, a woman of the city, a sinner,。
most commentators think that this was used to describe a prostitute.。
So this woman hears about Jesus having dinner at this Pharisee's house.。
Now, what was also the custom was, as you invite someone to dinner,。
you'll have people around the table, but actually the doors were open。
for anyone to come and stand on the walls around the outside to listen in,。
just to see what's going on.。
There's going to be drama.。
There's going to be a battle.。
There's going to be a rap battle, and we're going to see if the Pharisee。
will beat Jesus.。
And so the doors are open.。
So this woman hears about this, and then she comes in and joins.。
Now, likely, people think, "There's no way, actual way of knowing here is,"。
there's likely, she's probably been confronted with the gospel herself previously.。
She's probably met Jesus, heard his teachings from before.。
So she's very keen and eager, desperate, desperate to go in.。
A woman of the city, a sinner, goes in to this Pharisee's home.。
She's got to be desperate because people would frown upon her coming into this.。
But she's like, "I don't care.。
What I just heard him say out there the other day, something--I need to go see him.。
I need to go see him, and I need to go and talk to him, so I'm going to go find him."。
And so basically she sneaks in, and she stands right behind where he's reclining.。
And then, and she has an alabaster flask of ointment.。
Often people, women like that, would hang the alabaster jar,。
which is about this size, and it's got a really narrow neck,。
and she would hang it around her neck.。
And of course, in the ointment there, a very expensive ointment,。
would give off a perfume that is very attractive and very nice.。
And so she sneaks in behind Jesus, and she stands there,。
hoping to hear about it, hear about what he's got to say.。
In verse 38, "And standing behind him at his feet, weeping,。
she began to wet his feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head,。
and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment."。
Okay, this is as weird as it sounds.。
And it was as weird back then as it would be right now.。
Okay, so there's no context here that you need to know.。
This is strange, okay?。
This woman goes in, she wants to talk to Jesus, I imagine, that's only my guess.。
The scripture doesn't say any more.。
I can imagine she's broken through, she's plucked up the courage to go in,。
and she just wants to talk to him.。
There's just something that she needs--she knows something needs to be done.。
And so she stands there, hoping maybe just to stand behind,。
just listening on the conversation, but here's what happens.。
When we are confronted with the gospel, sometimes,。
especially when it's the source of the gospel, the creator himself,。
I can totally imagine this.。
This has happened to me before.。
She's just completely undone.。
I think we know what that feeling is like, maybe when we're near a loved one.。
Maybe when we're so broken and desperate, and there's just someone。
that is very important to us, and we're just next to them,。
and you just can't control your emotions anymore.。
That's my feeling of what she's doing.。
She wants to try and engage, but then she just can't.。
She's just crying.。
And it's embarrassing now because she's just weeping,。
and the tears are dripping onto his feet.。
He's reclining back like this, right?。
And so he's dropping onto his feet, and then she's like,。
"I don't know what to do. I can't wipe it."。
So the only thing that she can do is to loosen her hair.。
I mean, it's funny that I'm doing this right now, but--。
[laughter]。
It's been a long time since I know what that feels like.。
George, come here.。
I see you, Charles. Nice and bright.。
We've got to-- Bold and courageous, that's what we are.。
So she-- And then she lets--。
Now, I need to tell you again how scandalous that is,。
because women aren't supposed to do that.。
You can get arrested for that.。
So she does it anyway, because it might be the only thing。
that she has to wipe his feet.。
So she just unties it, and then she just uses--。
"Oh, my goodness, I'm freaking out now,。
because I'm next to Jesus, and now I'm crying,。
and now I'm-- Ah!"。
"Just wipe it, wipe it."。
That's the scene, okay?。
And here's the funny thing.。
Verse 39.。
"Simon, the Pharisee, the professional Christian.。
Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this,。
he said to himself, 'Simon thinks, not Simon says.'"。
Simon thinks, and there's an irony in this。
that is just beautiful.。
"Simon thinks to himself, 'If this man were a prophet,。
he would have known who and what sort of woman this is。
who is touching him, for she is a sinner.'"。
You can imagine this, right?。
He's going, "Man, I thought I was going to confront him,。
and I thought we were going to have a battle,。
but this guy can't even tell who she is.。
He's thinking this."。
And in this strange moment of irony,。
Jesus knows what he's thinking and replies to him.。
He's not said a word.。
He's just thinking about this,。
and yet Jesus, proving that he's actually not even just a prophet,。
he then goes, "Simon, Simon, I have something to say to you."。
Tim Keller often jokes about this.。
If you read Jesus saying-- If Jesus says to you,。
"Hey, I have something to say to you,"。
you should be worried.。
You should be very, very worried.。
And so Jesus replies his thought,。
and he answers, "Say it, teacher."。
And then here is the moment where Jesus confronts him.。
At this point, he's not done anything.。
He's just come in. He's just reclining. He's eating.。
He knows what this is about,。
but he's just kind of going along with it.。
Of course, the very sad woman is behind him。
just weeping and causing a scene.。
And then he tells him a parable, which is what Jesus often does.。
Verse 41, "A certain moneylender, a creditor, who had two debtors,。
one owed 500 denarii and the other 50.。
When they could not pay, he canceled the debt of both.。
Now which of them will love him more?"。
So he tells him a very simple parable。
because he wants to teach him something.。
He wants to highlight something.。
But maybe let's pause here,。
and let's talk about some differences that we have。
between the professional Christian and the professional sinner.。
Let's talk about even the attitude.。
Because what we'll find out,。
and I'll go back to the parable later,。
the attitude is very different here.。
The Pharisee invites him in to confront him.。
He wants to challenge him.。
He wants to have an intellectual debate.。
He wants to just go to war with words and with theology。
and with the Old Testament.。
He wants to do that.。
But the professional sinner, the woman,。
has a completely different agenda.。
She's been confronted with the Gospel,。
and she just wants transformation.。
She just needs to be around him.。
And it's just completely undone by the Gospel there.。
Completely open, completely vulnerable.。
Whereas the Pharisee, actually we find out later,。
he doesn't even invite, he doesn't even do the customs。
that actually Jesus will talk about in a minute.。
Here's the interesting thing.。
She applies the ointment onto him.。
The way to apply the ointment,。
the way to get the ointment out of the jar,。
do you know what you have to do?。
Smash it.。
That's the only thing.。
It's a one-time only coupon.。
So she's freaking out.。
She's crying.。
She has to dry his feet with air.。
And then to the point where now it's all over.。
Everyone's watching her.。
She's undone.。
She doesn't know what she's doing.。
So she's trying to wipe it.。
She's applying ointment.。
She's kissing it.。
She's kissing his feet.。
She's just like, "Oh my goodness.。
"I'm face to face with this guy。
"who's just completely just confronted me。
"with this good news,。
"and I just completely can't contain myself."。
Meanwhile, the Pharisee is probably reclining on his couch。
going, "Jesus, let me see how good you are。
"with your intellectual theological chops.。
"I want to know if you're legit.。
"I want to know if you're a prophet.。
"Actually, you clearly don't look like a prophet.。
"You can't even tell what kind of woman this is.。
"I clearly know this kind of woman."。
The attitude is different,。
but I think the biggest difference。
is the awareness is different.。
I had a dinner the other night,。
and got to meet some new people,。
which is always fun for me,。
until they find out what I do.。
So we have a dinner table,。
and I'm sitting around with some friends.。
Someone invited me,。
and there's just all these other people,。
and they go, "Oh, what do you do?"。
"Oh, I'm in private equity."。
I'm like, "Oh, okay.。
"I don't really know what that is."。
"I'm in hedge funds."。
"Oh, okay.。
"Don't know what that is.。
"Okay."。
"I'm in consulting."。
I'm like, "Oh, okay."。
And it just keeps going around,。
and many of them are non-believers,。
and they're just talking,。
and swearing, and drinking.。
And they're like, "Oh, what do you do, James?"。
"I'm a pastor."。
They're like, "Oh, I thought this was。
"like a finance consulting thing."。
I'm like, "Me too, but I don't know.。
"I knew that, but I don't know why I'm here,。
"but I'm just here."。
And anyway, this is the life of a pastor.。
The moment you reveal that,。
you're the party pooper.。
It's like, "Oh, oh, you were swearing."。
I'm like, "Yep, yep, he was swearing.。
"Yep, yep, he's probably going to hell."。
(audience laughing)。
And then, of course, they're like, "Oh."。
And then I'm like, "Okay, so, are you a Christian?"。
"Do you?"。
And then he's like, "Oh, no, no, no, no.。
"I'm a bad person.。
"I don't do that kind of stuff.。
"Yeah, yeah, 'cause yeah, I would never be allowed in."。
And then, "Oh, but he is."。
And then he looks at me, "You're a Christian, aren't you?"。
And he's like, "Oh, yeah, I grew up in the church.。
"Yeah, yeah, yeah, but now I'm talking to a pastor.。
"I'm a bad Christian."。
(audience laughing)。
That's what he said.。
And, of course, I'm seeing this enough of this.。
I've been a party pooper for quite a number of years now.。
But then, at that moment,。
I really felt something that I needed to say.。
And this was it, actually.。
The person who said that they were a bad person,。
he's probably not wrong.。
But the person who said that they were a bad Christian,。
they're definitely wrong.。
Because there's no such thing as a bad Christian.。
Christians are people who know they're bad。
and know that they were saved.。
There's no such thing as a bad--。
The moment you think there's a bad Christian thing,。
some of you might go, "Oh, yeah, I'm a pretty bad Christian."。
No, you see, it's not good nor bad.。
A Christian is someone who just knows that they were dead。
and that they needed to be saved.。
That's it.。
You can't qualify it with good or bad.。
Or maybe on the other side,。
is maybe you're sitting there going,。
"Hmm, I'm a pretty good Christian."。
There's no such thing as a good Christian.。
The Bible is very clear on this.。
Jesus is very clear on this.。
No one is good.。
None of you are good.。
All of you fall short of the glory of God,。
but all of you are justified freely by His grace as a gift.。
There's no such thing as good and bad Christians.。
So I had a really fun conversation。
explaining what that really meant.。
So I think the Pharisee had this problem.。
He didn't really realize.。
He thought he was a model believer.。
Everyone in this town respected him,。
mostly because he had money and influence。
and because he was disciplined somewhat.。
But his awareness was gone.。
Whereas the professional sinner,。
the woman of the city,。
knew exactly her state.。
That's a huge difference.。
The question is, are we blind like Simon。
or are we aware like the woman?。
It's a very important point.。
Jesus in Matthew 15 says,。
actually, He's talking to the Pharisees。
and He's saying, "You guys have all these traditions。
"and you're following all these commandments.。
"You worship me with your lips,。
"but your hearts are far from me."。
That's a professional Christian.。
That's someone who says he is Lord,。
but then actually lives a completely different life inside.。
The question for us is, what are we?。
Have we been confronted with the gospel?。
And you might be like, "Yeah, you know, you nailed it.。
"I'm a bad person."。
I'm like, "That's okay.。
"That's why this is perfect for you."。
Because you need to know that even that woman。
was welcomed in by Jesus.。
Even that woman was accepted.。
And you need to know that there's nothing。
that you've done in your past。
that will stop Him from loving you.。
Nothing will separate you from the love of Christ.。
But if you're the other side,。
you're like, "I've been going to church all my life.。
"I've been serving.。
"I've been serving in VBS and BSF and ABC and Alpha.。
"I've done all the courses."。
This message is also for you。
because the question remains,。
you can do all of those things。
but not be cut to the heart,。
not be confronted with the gospel.。
That's the danger.。
That's what Simon is going through right here。
and he's having a master class on it.。
He thought he was here for an intellectual debate,。
but he thought he was going to confront Jesus,。
but instead Jesus is confronting him.。
Now there is a similarity between the two。
that I want to highlight in this parable.。
He says, "One owed 500 denarii,"。
which is about a year and a half's wage,。
"and the other owed 50."。
That's about two months.。
So one person owed a year and a half。
to two years' worth of wages, which is a lot,。
and then the other just owed a month or two.。
"When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both.。
"Now which of them will love him more?"。
Verse 43, Simon answers,。
"The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt."。
I mean, you can see Simon is still a moron here.。
"Oh, well, I suppose it's that guy."。
Well, of course it's that guy。
because he had a whole year or two years' salary forgiven.。
I was just talking to Paul about this.。
Paul has three pairs of shoes.。
Okay, just three.。
He has a pair of Vans, which he didn't know were Vans。
until I had a discussion with him about it,。
that they were Vans.。
He has a pair of dress shoes.。
I don't know when he uses those dress shoes.。
And a pair of running shoes.。
I definitely don't know when you use those.。
[laughter]。
So Paul has three pairs of shoes.。
Pass the Johnny.。
How many pairs of shoes do you have?。
- 20.。
- More than that.。
- More than that.。
- Like 200.。
- 100.。
- You haven't counted.。
Yeah, yeah.。
Still learning how to count above 100.。
Three digits.。
That's what he's doing.。
- Look, he's hanging on the ceiling already.。
- They're everywhere.。
Imagine Johnny and Paul both had a debt.。
They both owed someone something.。
And then basically what they owed was their shoes.。
Paul only has three pairs that he could potentially lose.。
Johnny has 250.。
[laughter]。
Imagine at that moment the creditor both says,。
"Actually, neither of you need to give me your shoes back."。
Who's more happy in that moment?。
Who's more happy?。
That's where Simon the Pharisee says,。
"Well, I suppose."。
Well, it's not suppose.。
It's obviously Johnny because sneakers are his life.。
Yeah?。
- Paul will get more.。
- He'll probably go get more, yes.。
That's why we're praying for a wife.。
We need a wife.。
That's what we need.。
[laughter]。
So here's what he's saying.。
He's saying, "But the interesting thing isn't actually Johnny or Paul.。
It isn't the 500 denarii.。
It isn't the 50."。
What he says is this.。
"Neither of them can pay."。
Because actually, legally, do you know what that means?。
They have one similarity.。
They're both going to prison.。
It doesn't matter whether you've done all of this stuff,。
all of this sin,。
or whether you've just done a little, little bit of sin.。
You're both going to prison.。
In the eyes of the law, you are both the same.。
Isn't that interesting?。
It's got nothing to do whether you're a professional Christian。
or you're a professional sinner.。
Both of you owe something, and both of you cannot pay.。
That's the point of the parable.。
It wasn't who sinned more and who lost.。
The point is, you're both the same.。
All of us here in this room,。
whether we've been confronted with the Gospel or not,。
whether we're a Christian or not,。
whether we've been to church for 70 years,。
or this is our first time,。
do you get it?。
We're all in the same boat.。
We're all in need of the Gospel.。
We're all in need of the good news.。
There is absolutely no difference.。
There is no point looking at someone and going, "They're worse."。
This is where I'll finish.。
You and I should have her mindset instead of his,。
but often, those of us who are Christians,。
who have been in the church circles,。
we look down on other people who are different to us,。
who are swearing, who are doing all these other things。
that we just think are judging,。
and we're like, "You know what?。
Yeah, that's bad."。
Now, of course, there are behaviors that need to be redeemed.。
When you are confronted, your life transforms.。
It changes.。
What does Jesus say when he talks to sinners?。
He said, "Okay, you have been forgiven.。
Go and sin no more."。
So there has to be a transformation.。
There has to be a life change.。
But you and I both need to recognize,。
realize that actually we are,。
we could be the blind professional Christian。
unless we're undone by the Gospel,。
unless we've been confronted with the Gospel.。
You see, Jesus here is saying, "I am the creditor.。
You both owe me different things,。
and I'm saying it doesn't matter."。
And so, verse 48, he finishes here,。
and this is where I'll finish.。
Verse 47 first, actually.。
Sorry, Charlotte.。
"Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many,。
are forgiven, for she loved much,。
but he who has forgiven little loves little."。
And he said to her, verse 48, "Your sins are forgiven."。
It's interesting.。
So he started off challenging Jesus,。
going, "Is this guy even a prophet?"。
And Jesus one-ups him, replies to what he's thinking,。
and then shows him that he's not only a prophet,。
but he is God.。
He is the one who has the authority to even forgive.。
Completely blows it out the water.。
And it freaks everyone out.。
They're like, "Oh, we thought we were going to come。
and confront and have an intellectual debate,。
and yet this guy is now forgiving sins."。
But that's exactly what Jesus is.。
That is exactly who he is.。
He's saying, "You both owe me, but I forgive you both.。
The wages of sin is death,。
but I'm going to die as a ransom for many."。
That's what he's saying here.。
Jesus knows what he's going to do.。
Jesus knows this good news,。
this purpose that he was sent for,。
will require a cost.。
Keller talks a lot about this as well.。
He says, "Forgiveness always comes with a price."。
Forgiveness is when you're willing to pay。
for the consequences of someone else's sin.。
When we say, "Oh, Christians, we're supposed to forgive。
and forget, just leave it, and it's okay,。
we make mistakes, there's grace."。
No, there's always a price.。
When we choose to forgive someone that's hurt us。
by not hurting them back, we're saying,。
"I'm going to take that on myself."。
The creditor who releases both of these debts,。
what's he doing?。
The debts don't disappear.。
Someone pays.。
Who pays?。
The creditor.。
The creditor says, "Okay, you both owe me.。
You owe me three pairs of shoes.。
You owe me 250 pairs of shoes.。
I'm going to let both of those debts go.。
I'm going to cancel them both.。
Who's paying?。
I'm paying for 253 pairs of shoes."。
That's why Jesus has that authority,。
because he takes on that sin, and he says,。
"Put it on my tab.。
I'm going to be going to the cross,。
and I'm going to be dealing with all of this。
once and for all."。
That was the purpose why I came.。
These people are living in bad news,。
but I'm here to tell them some good news,。
that I'm going to take the bad news off them,。
and I'm going to put it all onto me,。
and so that they can then live with the freedom。
that I can give them, because I have now freed them。
from that debt.。
Brothers and sisters, that's the gospel.。
You know what?。
This is one of my deepest prayers,。
as I've learned just surviving in Hong Kong。
and just ministering here,。
is that we quit being professional Christians.。
We quit just running programs just for the sake of them,。
but that we truly understand who we are.。
Romans 8 says, "All creation is longing,。
eagerly longing for the revealing。
of the children of God."。
This city needs us to know who we are.。
People who are undone by the gospel,。
confronted by Jesus himself,。
and that confrontation leads to a transformation。
that makes us completely new and different.。
Peter was obnoxious, impulsive, and inconsiderate,。
and yet when he was filled with the Spirit,。
he completely transforms and changes。
into this different person.。
When he goes face to face with his mistakes,。
and then the Lord restores him,。
he is completely transformed.。
And then he preaches a sermon that does the same。
to thousands, who then spread it to more thousands,。
who then spread it to more and more.。
Can we in this room here understand that?。
Can we get to grips with the fact that we are bad news,。
that we do have bad news,。
that every day we're surrounded by bad news?。
I fight the temptations and the distractions of this world。
every single day myself.。
Paul talks about this in Romans 7.。
What I should do, I don't do.。
What I shouldn't do, I'm doing.。
What a wretched man I am.。
That's the Apostle Paul speaking.。
But then he said, "But thank goodness we have Jesus,。
"who came and paid the price,。
"who shares with us that good news."。
Let us understand that today.。
And this is my request to you.。
The woman who goes to Jesus smashes her alabaster jar.。
What she's saying is, actually this is very interesting.。
Why is a woman of the city having an alabaster jar?。
She's trying to attract people.。
It's her livelihood.。
This is what she uses to make money.。
And in that moment of confrontation,。
and in that moment of transformation,。
she takes it off, smashes it and says,。
"I won't be needing this anymore.。
"I won't be needing the approval of men anymore.。
"I won't be needing the acceptance.。
"I won't need to fight for my own survival anymore.。
"I am willing to give up everything,。
"everything that I think I'm doing to save my life,。
"to be a good person, I can just throw it all away。
"and put my trust in this guy.。
"Take everything."。
Simon, the Pharisee, the professional Christian,。
approached Jesus with his head.。
The woman approaches with everything.。
And says, "You can have everything.。
"You are worth everything."。
And she knew that.。
And I hope that we do too.。
And so as I pray, can I encourage you to think,。
what's the thing around your neck?。
What's the alabaster jar?。
What's the thing that you're using for your survival?。
Or is it the mind, like the Pharisee,。
who just wants to engage in intellectual debate。
and see who knows more about Scripture?。
And so we can look down on other people。
and feel better about ourselves.。
What is it?。
Would you lay it down?。
Would you lay it down at the feet of Jesus?。
This whole story is scandalous.。
It's ridiculous.。
It would be awkward in any era。
that a sinner would touch the feet。
of someone in such a way.。
Is there anything more ridiculous than that?。
I need to tell you there is.。
Just like this woman knelt down。
and wept at the feet of Jesus,。
the Prince of Heaven himself。
then turns it around。
and washes the feet of sinners.。
That is even more scandalous.。
That is even more ridiculous.。
That fact alone should blow your mind。
and it should change everything。
and you should smash every alabaster jar you have.。
Give up your life of being a professional Christian。
and open yourself up to the one who confronts,。
who accepts, who loves, who transforms.。
Let's pray.。
So Father, we come before you。
and we ask that you would confront us。
with that good news once again.。
Lord, we believe, help our unbelief.。
Many of us know of our own broken state,。
our own selfishness, our own sin.。
But we have not yet actually been confronted。
by the good news.。
The world, we who are dead,。
who are lost, who are blind,。
have been confronted with the good news。
that changes everything.。
Because now we are made alive together。
now we can see, now we are found,。
now we are known.。
Because of you.。
A thousand times we failed yet your mercy remains.。
Your will above all else,。
the art of losing ourselves.。
We lose ourselves at your feet again, Lord.。
Would you cleanse us, purify us。
from the inside out.。
Would you create a clean heart in us.。
Would you renew a right spirit within us.。
Let us hear joy and gladness.。
Let the bones you have broken rejoice.。
Restore to us the joy of your salvation.。
Because Lord, you are the everlasting one。
when all else fails.。
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
