Yes, I know that I use the expression "I am excited" a lot.。
And I understand that there is a danger of this that you don't take me seriously.。
But when I say I'm excited about One 2022, I'm going to ask you to take me at face value.。
I mean, why wouldn't I be excited when an idea that started here in this church has。
spread to around 500 churches in our city alone?。
Why wouldn't I be excited when an idea that started here in this church has spread to。
32 cities worldwide with over 10,000 churches involved?。
Why wouldn't I be excited when this week I've had the opportunity to be a speaker on behalf。
of Godfrey Church to address both the global launch and the Hong Kong launch?。
Why wouldn't I be excited when all around the world Christians will be listening to。
John's Gospels and the epistles together in their mother tongues?。
Why wouldn't I be excited when churches all around the world will be preaching the seven。
I am's of Jesus at the same time?。
Why wouldn't I be excited when small groups like our clans all around the world will be。
studying the seven I am's at the same time?。
Why wouldn't I be excited when Christians all around the world will be watching the。
seven miracles of Jesus from John's Gospel over the next seven weeks?。
And I'm not the only one excited.。
I'm going to show you now a clip from Pastor Randy Frazee from Westside Family Church in。
Kansas City where I preached last year who is spearheading this global initiative.。
And I apologize in advance for any sound quality, but it'd be good for us to hear this.。
Thank you, Anthony.。
Well, hello, Pastor John and Sandra, the beautiful people of Kong Fok Church and the amazing brothers。
and sisters in Hong Kong.。
Randy Frazee here.。
You know, it was your vision that created one.。
Yeah, several years ago, you guys created this vision that the churches in your city。
would unite together to make the name of Jesus more famous.。
You also probably know this, that that vision you created, you birthed, has spread now worldwide。
to 32 major cities around the world, including Kansas City, where I'm at.。
And for that, we are very grateful.。
This is not just year one for us.。
This is year two.。
It was actually Pastor John's vision that we would go through the Gospel of John together.。
And on Sunday mornings, we would all teach around the world through the seven powerful。
I Am statements of Jesus, in addition to collecting in small watching groups and this amazing。
listening plan.。
So we're super excited and honored to partner with you in this journey.。
And please know that the believers in Kansas City are praying for you, that God would go。
before you and behind you on either side of you to make this journey together very successful。
for the sake of the kingdom.。
Blessings and Godspeed.。
Pastor Randy, that's exciting.。
And tonight I get the excitement, the privilege of kicking it off here in Hong Kong at KFCI。
by preaching an introductory sermon.。
Now because of our time zone and because we have service on Saturday and not Sunday, we。
will be the first of the 10,000 plus churches to hear this message.。
This is a rose.。
Well, I imagine it's a rose because there's a famous line in a play by William Shakespeare,。
Romeo and Juliet, and it's said by Juliet, she says this, "What's in a name?。
That which we call a rose by any other name would still smell as sweet."。
She is suggesting that if we were to call a rose, say a rock, it would still smell as。
sweet.。
But we are not defined by our names, that our names are meaningless.。
Now what do you think about that?。
Well let me tell you my story.。
I've mentioned this before.。
My name was not originally meant to be John.。
It was meant to be George.。
I was born on what is known in the UK as St. George's Day, April the 23rd.。
Now St. George is a highly celebrated saint in both the Western and Eastern Christian。
churches.。
And George is the patron saint of England.。
If you look at the English national flag, it is actually the St. George's cross.。
And that features within the Union flag of the United Kingdom and other national flags。
that contain the Union flag, such as Australia and New Zealand.。
But in the 14th century, the saint had been declared both the patron saint and the protector。
of the royal family.。
The legend around him was that he had slayed a dragon.。
But George wasn't to be my handle.。
The meaning of George is actually farmer.。
Farmer.。
Sorry to our George Barlow, who is a perfectly respectable radiologist, and any other Georges.。
But I mean a connection between me and farming just does not exist.。
I mean farmers can be stung by dangerous insects.。
Farmers can work with heavy machinery which can kill or injure them.。
And farmers can establish muscle and joint pains from repeated work.。
I say no thanks.。
Back to George.。
My dad, my father, who was 51 at the time, and ecstatic about having his first and only。
son decided to have a drink or two or more, and promptly went out to name me John Henry。
Snelgrove, the same as him.。
I guess if I was American, I'd be John Henry Snelgrove the second.。
And just let me say the name of John has nothing to do with a toilet or a male visitor to a。
house of ill repute, but actually means God is gracious.。
How about that?。
However, research seems to suggest that your name does have some impact on your life.。
Let me just share a few.。
They tell me that if your name is easy to pronounce, people will favor you more.。
I found that Snelgrove has confounded most people in Hong Kong for 35 years, which is。
why almost everybody calls me John or Snelly, or even uses my Chinese name of Snelgrove.。
Apparently if your name is common, you are more likely to be hired.。
Maybe that's why I've only managed to have three employers in my lifetime.。
They tell me if your name is closer to the beginning of the alphabet, apparently you。
can get into a better school.。
On the other hand, if your last name is closer to the end of the alphabet, they tell me that。
you're more likely to be an impulsive shopper.。
I don't know about that.。
But we do judge people by their names.。
Let me give you an example.。
If you got dumped by a boy called Michael or a girl called Tammy in high school or college,。
you will cast a negative judgment on every Michael or Tammy you meet.。
So why am I telling you this?。
What is in a name?。
Well today as we begin this new series, Jesus is going to reveal his name.。
And what we will see is this, that some people are definitely going to judge him for it.。
For others of us, this name means good news.。
Let's turn to our Bibles and to John chapter 8.。
The Jews answered him, "Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a。
demon?"。
Jesus answered, "I do not have a demon, but I honor my father and you dishonor me.。
Yet I do not seek my own glory.。
There is one who seeks it and he is the judge."。
"Truly, truly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death."。
The Jews said to him, "Now we know you have a demon.。
Abraham died, as did the prophets.。
Yet you say, 'If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death.'。
Are you greater than our father Abraham who died?。
And the prophets died.。
Who do you make yourself out to be?"。
Jesus answered, "If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing.。
It is my father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God.。
But you have not known him.。
I know him.。
If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be like a liar to you.。
But I do know him and I keep his word.。
Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day.。
He saw it and was glad."。
So the Jews said to him, "You're not even 50 years old.。
Have you seen Abraham?"。
Jesus said to them, this is the key line, "Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham。
was, I am."。
So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the。
temple.。
Let me tell you the story.。
Jesus has just gotten up into all the business of the Jewish religious leaders.。
He has challenged them that they belong to the devil and don't believe in him because。
they don't believe in God.。
Ouch.。
Now Jesus has definitely not read Dal Carnegie's bestseller, How to Win Friends and Influence。
People.。
And in John 8, 48, they answered him, "Are we right in saying that you're a Samaritan。
and have a demon?。
That's a punch below the belt.。
You know, we've had this before, that Jews despised the Samaritans and looked down on。
them.。
You know that Jesus was not a Samaritan.。
A Samaritan was a half-breed, half-Jewish, half-Greek, but Jesus was full on Jewish and。
he is certainly not demon possessed.。
So Jesus denies their claims.。
And then he says this, "Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never。
see death."。
Now they respond to that.。
Now we know, now we know that you are demon possessed.。
Abraham died and so did all the prophets.。
But if someone believes in you, they will not see death.。
That's pure craziness.。
Then they pose this question with the attitude, "Who do you think you are?"。
And Jesus responds, listen carefully to what he says.。
Jesus answered, "If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing.。
It is my father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God.。
But you have not known him.。
I know him.。
If I were to say that I did not know him, I would be a liar to you.。
But I do know him and I keep his word.。
Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day.。
He saw it and was glad.。
Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day.。
He saw it and was glad."。
This blows their minds.。
He is saying that Abraham saw Jesus.。
Now what does he mean by that?。
He means that when God came to Abraham and promised that the Messiah would come from。
his seed, his family, that he believed God and saw it by faith, Jesus is that promised。
Messiah.。
These guys are starting to catch Jesus' drip and challenge him.。
They say Abraham has been gone for over 2,000 years and yet Jesus is not even 50.。
He was actually 31 or 32 years old at this point.。
And they make a good point.。
Then Jesus lays it on them in verse 58.。
Let's read it together.。
"Jesus said to them, 'Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am.'"。
Now according to my calculations, Jesus would have needed to have been born more than 2,197。
years ago to be here before Abraham.。
But Jesus is not saying he was there before Abraham.。
Otherwise, he would have said, "Before Abraham was, I was."。
No, he said, "Before Abraham was, I am."。
It means that Jesus wasn't born but has always existed.。
He has no origin.。
He has always been.。
So what was their response to this statement?。
Check out the next verse.。
So they picked up the stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the。
temple.。
Okay, what was it that Jesus said that made them want to stone him?。
Now to discover this, we have to go back into the second book of the Old Testament, Exodus。
chapter 3.。
This is Moses.。
Moses said to God, "Who am I that should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel。
out of Egypt?"。
He said, "But I will be with you, and this shall be a sign for you that I have sent you.。
When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain."。
And Moses said to God, "If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, 'The God of your。
fathers has sent me to you,' and they ask me, 'What is his name?'。
What shall I say to them?"。
God said to Moses, "I am who I am."。
And he said, "Say this to the people of Israel.。
I am has sent me to you."。
So let's go back to the Exodus story.。
Israel, the Hebrew people, have been in Egypt now for 400 years.。
They currently find themselves in a horrific, demoralizing state of slavery.。
Moses had been gone from Egypt for 40 years.。
Remember he had killed an Egyptian.。
He is hanging out in the desert as a shepherd with his family, minding his own business.。
And then God visits Moses and speaks to him from a burning bush.。
I mean, that would certainly get your attention.。
God tells Moses that he wants him to trek back into Egypt and to tell Pharaoh, to say。
to Pharaoh, "You can say it with me, 'Let my people go.'"。
And Moses says back to God, "Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children。
of Israel out of Egypt?"。
I mean, he's saying, "Who am I?"。
He was given the name Moses by Pharaoh's daughter.。
And that literally means, Moses means pulled out of the water.。
You remember he was taken out of the river Jordan as a baby.。
But what's in a name?。
I'm going back to the beginning now.。
Moses is saying to God, "My name means pulled out of the water, which I was.。
And I'm grateful because it saved my life.。
But I don't think that's going to do it with Pharaoh."。
And God says, "I will be with you."。
I love Moses' response.。
Then Moses said to God, "If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, 'The God。
of my fathers has sent me to you,' and they ask me, 'What is his name?'。
What shall I say to them?"。
Now listen carefully to God's response back to Moses.。
God said to Moses, "I am who I am."。
God said to Moses, "I am who I am."。
And he said, "Say this to the people of Israel, 'I am has sent me to you.'"。
Now what kind of name is that?。
What it means is this.。
God has always existed.。
That he doesn't come from someone else like we do.。
He has always been, always is, and always will be.。
The uncaused cause, self-existence.。
I am is present tense.。
God has no past, present, or future.。
This is mind-blowing.。
Everything we think about God is now.。
Everything that God is prophesying for the future, we are waiting on, but he is not waiting。
on anything.。
It means that God is eternal.。
He has no beginning, and he has no end.。
And God repeats himself, but shortened his title by simply referring to himself as "I。
am."。
"Tell them I am has sent you."。
Now interestingly, "I am" in Hebrew is just four letters without vowels.。
They're all consonants.。
The Hebrew language didn't add vowels until the 10th century by a group of people called。
the Mazarites.。
It makes learning this language very, very difficult.。
It's what we call a tetragrammaton, which means that YHWH is a four-letter word.。
In Hebrew, it looks like this.。
In English, it looks like this.。
Does anyone recognize this?。
Out of the nearly 1,000 names for God in the Bible, this is the one that stands out above。
them all.。
YHWH.。
We just sang it, didn't we?。
YHWH, YHWH, we love to hear your name, oh Lord.。
It is also pronounced Jehovah.。
Throughout the Old Testament, whenever YHWH appears out of respect for the loftiness of。
his name, Jewish tradition typically replaces YHWH or inserts the name Adonai.。
It appears in our Bibles as Lord.。
If you read the Bible, you'll see that Lord is usually in capitals.。
YHWH, his name.。
I just got a small observation here.。
Moses created all this trouble before God about the name.。
Actually, when he goes to the Hebrew people, they never even ask for his name.。
Okay, heading back to Jesus.。
Jesus is saying that he is the great I am.。
That's why they picked up stones to kill him.。
This was in keeping with the Old Testament law found in Leviticus 24.。
It says this, "Take the blasphemer out of the camp.。
All those who heard him lay their hands on his head and let all the congregation stone。
him."。
So, the punishment for blasphemy was stoning.。
But it's not blasphemy if it's true.。
But it is true.。
Jesus is I am.。
I want to finish this afternoon by looking at what it means for us.。
What does it mean for us today?。
What is his application?。
I think at least four things come to mind.。
One is this, is that Jesus is God.。
Jesus is not mere man.。
And that's important.。
Now, why is it important?。
Well, if Jesus was born of the seed of Joseph, we are in big trouble because we are still。
in our sin.。
Why?。
Because Joseph, like you and me, are born of Adam and Eve's sin nature and it's automatically。
passed down to us.。
Jesus' sacrifice upon the cross, while noble and thoughtful, would not have paid for our。
sins once and for all.。
That's why Jesus had to be born of a virgin from the seed of the Holy Spirit.。
He knew no sin and therefore his sacrifice is perfect and sufficient to remove our sin.。
So that's number one, Jesus is God.。
Secondly, Jesus saves.。
Back in Exodus, Yahweh kept his promise and led the children of Israel out of slavery。
across the Red Sea and ultimately into the Promised Land.。
Jesus' name in Hebrew is Yeshua.。
In Hebrew, Yeshua means Yahweh saves.。
Can you see this progression from Jesus to Yeshua to Yahweh saves?。
Yeshua leads us out of slavery to sin and ultimately into the Promised Land of eternity。
in his new kingdom, where we will be with him forever and ever.。
Thirdly, Jesus is present.。
Jesus is not a character we read about in a history book.。
The I Am is forever present.。
He is with you.。
He is with us right now.。
The best time to experience the I Am-ness of Jesus is when life is not making any sense.。
I've got to say in a week like we've just had, it is the best time for us to experience。
the I Am-ness of Jesus when you've lost a sense of who you are.。
And lastly, point number four, is that Jesus will give us his name.。
In Revelation 22, is given a vision of our life in the new kingdom.。
John says this, "They will see his face and his name will be on their foreheads."。
It looks like I don't have to walk around anymore trying to make something out of my。
name meaning God is gracious, John, and not Father George.。
The truth is, I will have the name of Jesus proudly tattooed across my forehead and it。
will signal to everyone, including myself, that I belong here.。
The name Jesus is powerful.。
He is the great I Am.。
And tonight, he wants to do a tattoo job on you.。
I'm going to pray for you now.。
And I'm going to be praying that you would know, that you would know, that you would。
know this.。
That you would know the great I Am, that Jesus is God, that Jesus saves, that Jesus。
is present, and that Jesus is willing to give you his name.。
Are you willing to receive his name this evening?。
Are we willing to receive his name and take it to the world, to be hope for the world。
at a time like this?。
Let me pray for you and then what we're going to do together, we're going to declare that。
he is the great I Am.。
Let's pray together.。
Jesus, we thank you that you are the great I Am.。
As we go through this Lent time together, as we study the I Am statement, I pray that。
tonight Lord, that you would write your name on our foreheads.。
And Lord, we open ourselves now.。
Maybe just take this time, just hold your hands in front of you and say, "Lord, I receive。
your name.。
I receive the name of Jesus Christ, my Savior, my King, and my God, in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
