Good evening KFCI. I'm sad to not be with you in person. Sandra and I are in the UK。
with her father who is sick. We've been so grateful for your love and your prayers. Thank。
you KFCI. Bonnie told us last week that Advent, the season we find ourselves in, means coming.。
That begs the question, who is coming? Of course the answer is Jesus. And what are we。
to do? We are to get ready. Between now and Christmas we will be taking a hard look and。
hopefully a fresh look at the story of Christmas. To see Jesus as the hope for the world. The。
only hope at a time when hopelessness seems to be the prevailing message in today's world.。
I have my own definition of Christmas. I put it on the screen. Somebody became nobody so。
that nobody's could become somebody's. Let me say that again. Somebody became nobody。
so that nobody's can become somebody's. I want to pick up on James's excellent point。
from last week. James pointed out that the main point of Christmas was not a baby in。
a manger in Bethlehem. He encouraged us to look at Christmas through the lens of a bloody。
cross at Calvary. And even more than that, through the resurrection, a tomb that is empty。
to this very day. The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the High King of Heaven, somebody。
swapped his heavenly home for a dirty old manger in a filthy stable and died the horrific。
death of a common criminal to defeat the power of death once and for all. But why? Why? Well,。
so that this nobody, a sinner represented by the thief on the cross with Jesus, could。
become somebody, could become a child of God, a son of the King. And I guess as I'm in UK。
now, a member of the Royal Family. The wonder of Christmas is this. The God chooses nobody's。
like you and me and through the life, birth, death and resurrection of his son, we can。
become somebody's if and only if we are prepared to accept what he has done for us. One of。
the best examples of a so-called nobody was Mary. Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ, was。
a young girl, probably only about 12 or 13 years old when the angel Gabriel came to her.。
She had recently become engaged to a carpenter named Joseph. Mary was an ordinary Jewish。
girl looking forward to marriage. Suddenly, her life changed forever. Fearful and troubled,。
Mary found herself in the presence of the angel Gabriel, listening to his announcement.。
We read this, "And he came to her and said, 'Greetings, O favoured one, the Lord is with。
you.' But she was greatly troubled at the saying and tried to discern what sort of greeting。
this might be." Mary could never have expected to hear the most incredible news that she,。
a virgin, would have a child and her son would be the Messiah. I mean, how would you feel?。
Verse 30, "And the angel said to her, 'Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found faith。
with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call。
his name Jesus.'" Although she couldn't comprehend how she would conceive the Saviour, she responded。
to God with humble belief and obedience. Although Mary's calling held great honour, it would。
demand great suffering too. There would be pain in childbirth, there would be pain in。
motherhood, as well as the privilege of being the mother of the Messiah.。
The angel told Mary in Luke 1:28 that she was highly favoured by God. The phrase simply。
meant that Mary had been given much grace or unmerited favour from God. But even with。
God's favour, Mary would still suffer much. Although she would be honoured, highly honoured。
as the mother of the Saviour, she would first know disgrace as an unwed mother. She nearly。
lost her fiancé. Her beloved son was rejected and cruelly murdered. Mary's submission to。
God's plan would cost her dearly. Yet she was willing to be God's servant.。
God knew that Mary was a woman of true strength. She was the only human being to be with Jesus。
throughout his entire life, from birth until death. She gave birth to Jesus as her baby。
and watched him die as her saviour. Can I repeat that? She gave birth to Jesus as her。
baby and watched him die as her saviour. Mary also knew the scriptures when the angel appeared。
and told her the baby would be God's son. She replied this, "Behold, I am the servant。
of the Lord; let it be to me according to your word." She knew of the Old Testament。
prophecies about the Messiah. Poor and female, you might say three strikes. These qualities。
made her unsuitable in the eyes of people to be used mightily of God. A nobody, you。
might say. But God saw Mary's trust and obedience. Typically not the qualifications that humans。
consider important. God will often use the most unlikely candidates to serve him. I know。
one of them. But what lessons do we learn from this? Most importantly, Mary was willing。
to submit her life to God's plan no matter what it would cost her. Obedience to the Lord's。
will meant that Mary would be disgraced as an unwed mother. Surely she expected Joseph。
to divorce her, or worse yet, he might even have her put to death by stoning as the law。
permitted. Mary may not have considered the full extent of her future suffering. She may。
not imagine the pain of watching her beloved son bear the weight of sin and die a terrible。
death on the cross. But surely she knew that her life would hold many sacrifices as the。
mother of the Messiah. Being chosen by God for a high calling requires total commitment。
and a willingness to sacrifice everything out of love and devotion to one's Savior.。
For Mary said, "Behold, I am a servant of the Lord; let it be to me according to your。
word."。
We sang, didn't we, "Mary, Did You Know?" Originally written as a Christmas play script。
by Mark Lowry in 1984. "Mary, Did You Know?" is a series of questions all aimed at asking。
pregnant Mary various things about her soon-to-be-born son, the Messiah. I counted 17 questions,。
ranging from if she knew that her baby was God himself, to questions about his miracles.。
To answer the question, "Mary, Did You Know?" poses, yes, Mary knew. Mary knew she was having。
God's son. Luke 1, 30-33, 35 says this clearly, "And the angel said to her, 'Do not be afraid,。
Mary, for you have found faith with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and。
bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son。
of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him to the throne of his father David. And。
he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom there will be no end.' And。
the angel answered her, 'The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High。
will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called Holy, the Son of。
God.'" Yes, I think we can say that Mary knew that her baby boy was God himself. Even。
easier to answer is whether Mary consented to bear the Son of God. Her response on the。
subject was, "Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your。
word." But Mary has her own Christmas song. History has given us a far more beautiful。
and accurate song for Christmas about Mary, one that actually confesses the truth about。
her, God's plan and that tiny baby. That song is the one that Mary herself sang, and。
it's one that churches around the world still regularly sing, the Magnificat or Song of。
Mary. And we had it read to us earlier, of course. "My soul magnifies the Lord, and my。
spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant.。
For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed, for he who is mighty has。
done great things for me, and holy is his name, and his mercy is for those who fear。
him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered。
the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their。
thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things,。
and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of。
his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and his offspring forever."。
This leads me to reflect on this question. Am I, like Mary, willing to accept God's plan。
no matter what the cost is? Can I go a step further and rejoice in that plan as Mary did,。
knowing it would cost me dearly? Coming back to our song, of course Mary knew.。
The question we should be asking, rather than "Mary, did you know?" is "Do we know?"。
Do we know? Could we sing Mary's song? How do we respond to God in our lives and in the。
world around us? Because while we wait for the birth of Jesus at Christmas, it is not。
because he isn't present with us now. The God who chose to dwell among us is with us。
still yesterday, today, and for all our tomorrows. Do we feel Christ in our heart? Do we recognize。
the Holy Spirit at work in our lives? Advent is a time of preparation, and perhaps this。
week we can all, all of us at KFCI, can commit to looking, listening, feeling God's presence。
still dwelling among us. So I ask you to try a little experiment. Every。
morning as you prepare for the day, say to yourself, as Mary did, "Today I will encounter。
God and my soul will magnify Christ." And as you go through the day, look for Christ。
in the eyes of those you meet. Listen for the Spirit deep in your heart and try and。
feel God's love and grace in the world around you, because Christ, the Holy Spirit, God。
is there. And at the end of the day, just before you。
turn into bed, reflect back on all you've experienced. The good and the difficult, the。
joyous and the stress-filled. Was there something that struck you? Maybe a child's smile, maybe。
the eyes of a street sleeper, the song of a bird in the tree, a kind word of gesture,。
or perhaps even just a moment of stillness amongst the clutter of Hong Kong life.。
The thing is, every day is a God-filled day, and we too are called by God to a Magnificat。
of our own. We are called to magnify the Lord, our Christ, and rejoice, for God is with us.。
Now what does that mean? Well, we may not be giving physical birth to the Christ child,。
even you, Michelle, but we are giving birth to Him in the lives of all we encounter, if。
we magnify Him in our soul. And the crowning glory of it all is if we do this, we, KFCI,。
may just end up being the Church, the Body of Christ we are called to be. We will be。
joyous, good stewards of God, servants of the Most High. And then, the hungry will be。
fed, the thirsty given drink, the poor lifted and the stranger welcomed, the prisoner and。
the sick will be visited, and the dream of God for us all, for all the earth, will be。
ever closer to reality. Then we will all sing our own song of God's presence in our lives.。
The pop music world asks, "Mary, did you know?" We say, "Of course she did!" But the question。
we should ask is, "Do we?" Do we? Mary said, "Behold, I am a servant of the Lord. Let it。
be to me according to your word." Can we say the same thing? Just while the band gets up。
to play the next song, I invite you just to close your eyes. I just invite you just to。
reflect on this. And I ask you a question. Do we know? Do we know the presence and power。
of God in our life? The one who was a baby in a manger in Bethlehem, who went on to die。
on a cross for you and me, who rose from the dead that we might be free of sin, and who。
sends his Holy Spirit to be with us now. Father God, let it be to me according to your。
word. Behold, I am your servant. Fill me with your Holy Spirit and help me this Christmas。
to realize you are always present in my life. I bless you in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you。
and I hope to see you very, very soon. God bless.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
