- Thank you so much, James. - Mary.。
- And I hope everyone can hear me.。
It's a real honor and a privilege to speak to you tonight.。
I think when people heard that Pastor John。
was gonna speak about Samson,。
I think a lot of people had the idea。
that I was gonna preach about this guy.。
That's my dog, my baby boy called Samson.。
And actually, although I'm not preaching about Samson,。
my dog, there is a very strong connection。
between the word tonight and my dog.。
You see, about three and a half years ago,。
our previous dog, Oscar, passed away.。
And our two eldest grandchildren in particular。
were very, very sad.。
And what we said to them was this,。
is that we'll get a new dog, not straight away,。
but when we do, we'll allow you to come with us。
and pick the dog out.。
And sure enough, about three months later,。
it was a Thursday before Easter,。
we went down to LAP,。
Lifelong Animal Protection in Tsuen Wan,。
and there were tons of dogs there, but also cats as well.。
And I have to say, my eldest grandson, Ollie,。
decided he'd rather spend the whole afternoon in the cats.。
He was on the floor with the cats.。
But it soon became obvious to us,。
the dog that we had to choose,。
because he jumped on the sofa, he jumped on our laps,。
and we said, "This is the one.。
"This is the one that we're gonna have."。
And we said, "What's his name?"。
And he said, "Well, he came from a Chinese family,。
"a local family, so he has a Chinese name,。
"but we've decided to call him Kenneth."。
And I thought, "I'm not gonna call any dog of mine Kenneth."。
So actually, what we did, okay, so they said,。
"You can't take him today because he hasn't been neutered.。
"He's still a boy, and he has to go away for operation.。
"You can pick him up on Sunday."。
So actually, we went down there on Sunday,。
and actually, he wasn't there.。
And we wondered what had happened.。
He hadn't come back from the vets。
where he'd been having the operation.。
So we went back on Monday, and it was a rather bizarre tale.。
Actually, they told us that during the operation,。
he had an allergy, allergic reaction to the anesthetic,。
and had died.。
He died on the operating theater,。
but the vet was able to resuscitate him。
and bring him back to life.。
And by the time we picked him up on the Monday,。
he had really red eyes from the effect。
of this anesthetic and everything.。
So we wondered what to call him.。
And our two grandchildren said,。
"Why don't you call him Jesus?。
"I mean, he died at Easter and was raised again."。
Now, that seems a very good thing,。
but can you imagine going down the park。
and calling out for your dog, "Jesus, Jesus!"。
You know, people would really look at you.。
So we had a competition on social media to pick a name.。
And it became obvious after a while。
that actually the winner was going to be Samson.。
And then it occurred to me。
that Samson was a type of Jesus.。
Samson had broken chains just in the way。
that Jesus in the New Testament breaks chains for us.。
So we were very pleased to give him the name Samson.。
Now I need to move on.。
Pastor Johnny did a great job。
taking us to halftime in our story of Samson.。
And we take our halftime break, as it were,。
celebrating what Johnny described wonderfully。
as the victory at Jawbone Hill.。
You'll see a picture.。
We have a sporting expression, a game of two halves.。
And this is what we're going to see.。
And can I tell you, Samson doesn't come out of it very well.。
So much so, we describe him as the man。
who could resist everything but temptation.。
But I want to say up front。
that this is a story of breaking chains.。
And my prayer for you this afternoon,。
wherever you are in your Christian world,。
that actually as a result of hearing this word,。
as a result of praying,。
that chains will be broken in every one of our lives.。
We've heard the story week after week.。
The Israelites were in this cycle of sin.。
Instead of driving out the Canaanites like God asked them to,。
they would allow the Canaanites to influence them.。
And they ended up joining in their practices,。
which led to idolatry.。
When they got to the point where they were being oppressed,。
they cried out to God for a savior.。
And so God raised judges to deliver them once again.。
But not long after that deliverer died,。
they got involved with the Canaanites。
and the Philistines again,。
and the sin cycle started all over again.。
Now we find even today,。
many Christians find ourselves still in bondage。
to the very things that we should have gotten rid of。
at the very beginning of our Christian journey.。
And today we're gonna look at a man。
who had the same problem,。
a man named Samson.。
And we're gonna see that Samson is a man。
who became very much enslaved by his own cravings.。
You see, Johnny told us last time, he strangled a lion.。
But as we will see today, he couldn't strangle his lust.。
We saw last time he burst his ropes,。
but we will see today he was bound by his appetite.。
Again, he burned the enemy's crops,。
and yet he was inflamed with his desire for their women.。
Yes, he was strong, but he wasn't really in control.。
And yes, he could conquer his enemies,。
but sadly he couldn't conquer himself.。
Now, one of the things I love about the Bible。
is its honesty and its openness。
when it comes to Bible heroes.。
The Bible tells us about people's failings。
as well as their high points.。
And in Judges chapter 16, the very first verse。
is one of those verses concerning Samson.。
It says this, "One day Samson went to Gaza。
"where he saw a prostitute.。
"He went in to spend the night with her."。
Now notice, the author of Judges tells it as it is.。
He doesn't try to cover up Samson's scandalous behavior.。
Whoa.。
Now think about what Samson is doing.。
He is supposed to be God's deliverer.。
He is supposed to be a savior of Israel.。
But as we are going to see,。
Samson sowing his seeds here now in Gaza。
is gonna have consequences.。
And his sin is going to be reaped later。
in his own very destruction with Delilah.。
In other words, my friends, sin has consequences.。
Let me say that again.。
Sin has consequences.。
Samson did what we nearly all do。
when we're deceived by sin.。
He put his life into categories。
and figured there were some categories。
that God cared about。
and some categories that God did not care about.。
Let's read on.。
Verses two and three.。
"The people at Gaza were told, 'Samson is here.'。
"So they surrounded the place and lay in wait for him。
"all night at the city gate.。
"They made no move during the night,。
"saying, 'At dawn we'll kill him.'。
"But Samson lay there only until the middle of the night.。
"Then he got up and he took hold of the doors。
"of the city gate together with the two posts。
"and he tore them loose bar and all.。
"He lifted them on his shoulders。
"and carried them to the top of the hill that faces Hebron."。
So the people of Gaza know that Samson is here.。
He's not trying to keep a low profile.。
The Philistines thought to themselves,。
"I know, we'll secure the city gates。
"and we'll lock him in."。
Now, what does Samson do?。
He lifts the gate with his enormous might。
and carries them to Hebron.。
That's 40 miles away.。
What?。
Let's pause and think about this for a moment.。
It is estimated that these gates。
may have weighed over 400 kilograms。
and he carried them 65 kilometers.。
We may wonder how Samson performed his amazing feats,。
but we have to remember。
that there are no limits to God's power.。
Can I say that again?。
There are no limits to God's power.。
Yes, Samson was an embarrassment。
and yes, he was out of control。
and yes, he was sinful,。
but God still used him to achieve his goal.。
And what was God's goal?。
To deliver God's people once again from their enemies.。
And remember, God doesn't create evil men,。
but he does use evil men to accomplish his plans.。
But you can see how the tension had intensified。
between Samson and the Philistines.。
He didn't help things by sleeping with their prostitutes,。
ripping up and carrying off their city gates。
and killing a thousand of them at a time。
using any old donkey jawbone lying around.。
But the Philistines found a way for revenge.。
When Samson, you see the picture beautifully here,。
Samson fell in love with a woman called Delilah.。
Look at these verses.。
The Philistines promised her a large sum。
if she could find out the source of Samson's strength.。
I want to put this into context in modern money.。
The sum of money that she was promised in today's terms。
was around 4 million Hong Kong dollars.。
That's a lot of money.。
And Samson continues to move from one woman to another,。
but this is no ordinary woman.。
This is Delilah.。
Samson fell in love with this Philistine woman。
and because of his openly soft spot for women,。
the enemy soon discovered his weakness.。
Delilah becomes their secret agent。
and her name has become synonymous。
even today with seduction.。
And she is often blamed for Satan's fall.。
But we have to remember the context of it all.。
She was merely doing her job。
as a loyal Philistine informant.。
She turned on the charm。
and Samson was very, very vulnerable.。
In Judges 16, six to 16, we won't read it all.。
We find Delilah pleading with Samson。
to reveal the secret of his strength.。
I mean, I thought it should have been totally obvious。
or at least it should have been obvious。
that God was the source of Satan, Samson's strength.。
The Philistines thought that Samson。
was using some kind of magic or some kind of illusion.。
And so we find Samson who is so wrapped up in love,。
he thinks Delilah is just teasing him.。
And so he playfully goes along,。
misleading her as though it were a big joke or something.。
But as someone once said,。
Samson was playing a game with Delilah,。
which turned out to be Russian roulette.。
And he bought the bullet.。
Now it's pretty obvious。
that Samson was infatuated with Delilah。
and he wasn't thinking straight.。
And as someone else once said,。
rather than break his relationship with Delilah,。
he allowed it to break him.。
I don't think that Samson really knew what love was.。
And he simply couldn't resist Delilah's allure and persuasion.。
And so he gives the enemy the answer。
they have been looking for in Judges 16, 18.。
And Judges 16, 19 tells us this,。
after putting him to sleep on her lap,。
she called for someone to shave off。
the seven braids of his hair and so began to subdue him.。
And his strength left him.。
My friends, he had a QB house number zero.。
I know 'cause I had one yesterday.。
Now it's commonly believed that it was Delilah。
who cut off Samson's hair,。
but that's not what the text or this picture says.。
The text clearly tells us。
that she called someone else to do it.。
And then we come to one of the saddest verses。
in the whole Bible.。
I wanna read it to you.。
Then she called, "Samson, the Philistines are upon you."。
He awoke from his sleep and thought,。
I'll go out as before and shake myself free.。
But he did not know that the Lord had left him.。
But he did not know that the Lord had left him.。
What a sad scene this is.。
You see, Samson lost his hair,。
but he lost something else even more important.。
He lost the presence of the Lord.。
The one thing which showed that Samson belonged to God。
was his hair and he ended up losing that.。
He lost the presence of the Lord.。
He lost his hair, but he lost the Lord's presence too.。
Then the Philistines seized him,。
gouged out his eyes and took him to Gaza.。
Binding him with bronze shackles,。
they set him to grinding grain in the prison,。
but the hair on his head began to grow again。
after it had been shaved.。
Look at this picture.。
The Philistines were now full of themselves.。
They capture Samson.。
They cruelly gouge out his eyes。
and they throw him into a dark cell.。
They put him to work grinding corn.。
This was tedious and degrading labor,。
the kind of work that only slaves would perform.。
I believe that even though the Bible doesn't tell us this,。
that Samson's time in prison became a place。
and a time of his repentance.。
Because the text very quietly tells us。
the hair on his head began to grow again.。
It's almost as if the author of the judges。
is softly reminding us that God。
is not finished with Samson yet.。
And his hair begins to grow.。
Possibly his faith in God begins to grow too.。
After all, we find Samson listed。
in the Hebrews Hall of Faith.。
Check it out, Hebrews 11, 32.。
Samson was a man who demonstrated what faith is.。
And if that teaches us anything,。
it should teach us that the power of faith。
isn't the amount of faith we have,。
but the object of our faith, which is God.。
Samson was helpless.。
The Philistines had blinded him and he was put in chains.。
Samson was in chains.。
Now, Judges 16, 23 to 27 tells us。
that the Philistines threw a huge celebration。
at the temple of Dagon, which was their God of the grain.。
As they were celebrating,。
as they were giving credit to their pagan gods,。
they brought Samson out to perform for them.。
Now, what they didn't notice was that Samson's hair。
had begun to grow.。
The famous preacher, Charles Spurgeon, C.H. Spurgeon,。
asked this, "I wonder why these Philistines。
"did not take care to keep his hair。
"from growing to any length.。
"If cutting his hair once proved so effectual,。
"I wonder why they didn't send the barber in every morning。
"to make sure that not a hair grew。
"upon his scalp or his chin."。
And so, Samson asked to be propped up against the temple。
where he prayed to God for one last surge of strength.。
Let's read it.。
Then Samson prayed to the Lord.。
"Sovereign Lord, remember me.。
"Please, God.。
"Strengthen me just one more, one more time,。
"just once more, and let me, with one blow,。
"get revenge on the Philistines for my two eyes."。
Pushing against the pillars,。
he literally brought the house down.。
Now, I wanna finish this afternoon。
by going down a slightly different route.。
I started off my Samson story。
by talking about the rather bizarre naming。
of my husky dog, Samson.。
Indeed, a number of recent Christian communicators。
and commentators have viewed Samson。
as a type of Jesus Christ,。
based on the similarities between Samson's story。
in the Old Testament and the life of Jesus。
in the New Testament.。
A word of warning, we gotta be careful。
not to take this analogy too far.。
But look at this, I've put it on your screen.。
(silence)。
Thank you, Bonnie.。
Samson and Jesus' birth were both foretold by angels。
who predicted that they would save their people.。
Samson was born to a barren woman.。
Jesus was born of a virgin.。
Samson defeated a lion.。
Jesus defeated Satan, whom one Peter describes。
as a roaring lion waiting for someone to devour.。
Samson's betrayal by Delilah has been compared。
to Jesus' betrayal by Judas Iscariot.。
Both Delilah and Judas were paid in pieces of silver。
for their respective deeds.。
Samson was blindfolded, insulted,。
and enslaved prior to his death.。
Jesus, as you know, was blindfolded, insulted,。
and treated as a slave prior to his crucifixion.。
And we can also compare Samson's death among the wicked。
with Christ being crucified between two fields.。
Two fields.。
Let's get back to the scene.。
With the temple filled with Philistine leaders。
and 3,000 more people on the roof,。
Samson killed many more Philistines in this one act。
than he had done previously.。
This was to be his final act,。
as Samson asked that he should die.。
It could be said that Samson gave his life for his people.。
I know someone else like that.。
His name is Jesus.。
And I know he brought the power of sin and death。
in my life some 40 years ago.。
He is breaking those entailing sins,。
those attitudes, my self-centeredness,。
and still is, he is not finished with me yet,。
and he is not finished with you yet.。
By the grace of God, and only by the grace of God,。
Samson fulfilled his calling.。
But the story of Samson ultimately points。
to the person of the ultimate chain breaker,。
Jesus Christ.。
We sing the song, don't we?。
We'll sing it in a minute.。
There is power in the name of Jesus。
to break every chain, break every chain, break every chain.。
In his dying, Jesus did more than topple。
over an inanimate statue and slay his thousands.。
In his dying, he destroyed our death,。
and in his rising, he restored our life.。
Now, my friends, that is breaking chains.。
Delivered by our chain breaker。
from the fearsome reign of death,。
we are now free to walk in the light of life.。
But important as it is,。
it is not just about being free from our sins.。
It's not just about saying the sinner's prayer。
and moving from death to life.。
And I do recommend it.。
If you haven't done that,。
we'll give you an opportunity tonight.。
But that is the beginning and not the end.。
Even breaking the sins which as Christians entangle us,。
and that is also very important, I encourage it.。
It is not the end game.。
You see, and the point I want to make is this.。
The chains are broken for us,。
but I've come to tell you today,。
the chains are broken through us.。
Let me say that again.。
Chains are broken for us。
so that chains can be broken through us.。
God's purpose in the book of Judges,。
indeed the whole Old Testament,。
was to redeem Israel, to bring them back to him,。
to establish them as his people,。
to give them a new land,。
a new relationship through worship,。
to birth a new nation, a new people.。
And 2,000 years ago,。
God sent his son, Jesus Christ,。
to be our redeemer, our chain breaker.。
And in the year 2020,。
he sends us.。
He sends his church.。
He sends us.。
I want to repeat, chains are broken for us。
so that chains may be broken through us.。
Chains of injustice, chains of poverty.。
Alex shared it with us.。
Chains of lack of freedom.。
We cannot turn a blind eye.。
So what I want to do, I want to pray for us.。
And in that prayer,。
I want to pray for anyone who wants to come to Jesus,。
to ask Jesus to break my chains,。
to break sin, to break the power of sin.。
And that's what happens when we pass from death to life.。
That's what happens when we put our trust in Jesus.。
And if you've not done that, do so this evening.。
Have those chains broken.。
But secondly, I want to pray that God would set us free.。
And I believe we're all in this position.。
Set us free from entangling sins.。
But thirdly, I want to pray that God would use me, use us,。
to break chains in others.。
The poor, the needy, the refugee,。
that we would break the chains of injustice, poverty,。
and lack of freedom.。
So I'm gonna pray now, and then Kelly's gonna come back,。
and we're gonna sing, "There is power in the name of Jesus."。
So break every chain, break every chain, break every chain.。
Let's pray.。
Father, I want to pray now for anyone who is tuning in。
or is watching the YouTube。
and who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior.。
And we recognize Jesus that you're the Son of God.。
We recognize Jesus that you died for our sins.。
And tonight, Lord Jesus, I confess my sins.。
Would you come into my life?。
Would you transfer me from the kingdom of death。
to the kingdom of life?。
And Lord Jesus, as I ask you to be my Lord and Savior,。
would you help me to live a life that pleases you?。
I receive you, Jesus, tonight as my Lord and Savior.。
And Lord, we know that all of us,。
100% of us on this call, 100% of us online are sinners.。
And it is only by the grace of God that we stand here.。
But Lord, you know it's our desire to break those things.。
We sin time and time again with the same thing.。
We keep coming back like Samson did.。
And it may not be the same as Samson,。
but it might be about something else.。
It might be about pride.。
It might be about power.。
It might be about money.。
Lord Jesus, that you would break sin in my life.。
And Lord, that you would use me。
to break the chains in other people.。
Lord, that I would step out for the poor, the oppressed,。
the ones that are suffering injustice,。
that you would use me as an agent of your freedom.。
And I pray this in and through the mighty name of Jesus.。
And we all say amen as we sing this song together.。
you。
