I read something this week. When you are down to nothing, God is up to something. When you。
are down to nothing, God is up to something. My last sermon here with a live congregation。
was actually the 1st of January. I remember it was a public holiday. I shared a little。
of my heart for 2022 with a sermon entitled "A New Thing." I didn't realize how new that。
new thing was to become. On the 1st of January, I don't know if you remember, we had reported。
in Hong Kong 18 COVID cases and the 7-day weekly average was just 12. The word "Omicron"。
had barely entered our vocabulary. But within a week, church had reverted to live stream。
and then Zoom as things got worse. Just as we launched our series on emotional health,。
health for all, all for God. By the 3rd of March, daily numbers had reached 76,991. The。
weekly average peaked at 66,194 on the 4th of March. That's nearly a half a million cases。
in a week. But I believe the biggest danger to our society wasn't COVID. It was fear.。
Fear took over our city. And fear led to every one of us suffering from one kind of emotional。
distress or another. Yes, every one of us. Fear from families tearing their hair out。
with children being "educated" at home, online, while trying to get on with their own lives.。
Fear of possibly being shipped out to quarantine at Penny's Bay and parents being separated。
from their young children. Fear of not being able to see relatives overseas due to travel。
bans. Fear to people leaving our city to set up permanent homes overseas. My friends in。
the churches UK, bless them, but they were started talking about their churches getting。
Hong Kong ready. Fear of catching a disease that was portrayed in the media as far more。
serious than it was in reality, especially for younger, healthy, vaccinated people. Now,。
just to say, I want to say this, I am not trying to minimise the impact on those who。
are sick or those who lost loved ones. We stand with you. But we had no children's playgrounds,。
no restaurants for dinners, no cinemas, sports facilities, beauty salons and a variety of。
other things, and we had no face-to-face church. I must admit, I found myself getting quite。
angry that as a vaxxed person, now quadruple vaxxed, just saying, four times, I could not。
fly back for Sandra's sick father's 90th birthday in the UK two weeks ago without a potential。
almighty struggle to find flights that would invariably get cancelled and another round。
of quarantine at the end of my trip. We felt so guilty at joining his birthday lunch on。
Facebook Messenger. As a church, we found ourselves preaching emotional health, live-streamed。
of course, at a time when emotional health was the one thing that none of us were experiencing.。
I believe this series was a godsend. We planned it as early as November. Now, where do we。
find ourselves? Well, last week, as you know, we celebrated the reopening of in-person services。
after three months of live-streamed Zoom due to the so-called fifth wave in our city. We。
celebrated the lowering of some of the strictest social distancing measures we've had since。
this whole pandemic has begun and the reopening of many important businesses and industries。
that in a city that has been painfully hit economically by those strong measures. We've。
also seen the easing of flight bans and the shortening of hotel quarantine times, all。
of which are greatly welcomed as the possibility of travel has now increased. Most important。
of all, COVID itself seems to be on the decline and cases and deaths seem to be falling on。
a daily basis. All of these changes are worth celebrating and all of them are welcome changes。
after a very hard few months. But with grateful thanks to my spiritual son, Andrew Gardner。
from the Vine Church, I want to offer a word of warning to us. As we stand in these things。
that we are celebrating and the joy of being back in person in this room, wasn't it good。
when we went round just to say hi to everybody and not forgetting our wonderful, our wonderful。
online audience? You see, as Andrew reminded me, the removal of the problem is not necessarily。
the healing. Can I say that again? It's important. The removal of the problem is not necessarily。
the healing. Let me give you an example. If Putin decided a ceasefire today, that would。
be good, but that is not the end of the matter, right? And the removal of social distancing。
measures, the lowering of quarantine, the reduction in cases, the reopening of businesses。
are all wonderful things that we celebrate together, but they do not necessarily equate。
to the emotional healing that we all need. Not just from the past few months, but the。
past few years in our city. And my friends, this is a lesson in life. Just because our。
immediate problem seems to be going away, it doesn't mean that suddenly everything's。
going to be okay again. In our city, our society, and in ourselves. We've all faced, all of。
us have faced incredible hardship, frustration, anger, hurt, pain, worry, anxiety, fear, and。
in some cases, genuine trauma over these past few years. And these emotions are not going。
to be healed simply by a trip to the cinema, even with popcorn, or a four-person curry。
dinner till 10 o'clock. I want to pick up on Andrew's point, and I'll put it on the。
screen. The experience of our healing and the place of our hope is not found in the。
removal of our problem. It is found only in the processing of the trauma caused by the。
problem. Now, where does that lead us? I have to tell you, I am possibly the world's worst。
golfer. I'm a serial booby prize winner, I've got to say this. But to use a golfing analogy,。
our emotional health series has been like hitting the ball off the tee. It can be considered。
only as a first shot. Mine were usually in the bunker, but that's another issue. But。
my friends, this subject is not going away. This subject is not going away. We need to。
look at how we should play our second and subsequent shots as we move closer to the。
flag in the hole. Emotional health is with us long-term. We've never wanted this to be。
a flavour of the month series. Emotional health is not about a sermon series, but about a。
lifestyle. So what I intend to do today is this. I want to preach a sermon to sum up。
what I believe has been an eye-opening series. By the way, Pastor James preached an incredible。
sermon last week. If you haven't heard it, go home and check it out. And what I want。
to also do is to take a look at some next steps, aka the second golfing shot. I've called。
this sermon, "Emotional Health in the Light of the Resurrection." I don't know about you,。
I loved, I loved the I Am series. And I was so grateful that we ended up two weeks ago。
at the empty tomb with I Am the Resurrection. And the reality is, we are all, all of us。
in need of a healing that must come from the deep work of the forgiveness of Christ. And。
that is only possible because He is the I Am. And most supremely, the one who gave His。
life and conquered death by His glorious resurrection. If it were not for the resurrection, I would。
not be standing here and my words would be empty. And I want to begin with a question.。
And it's a vitally important question. Why are there so many of us in church, mature。
Christians, gifted Christians, emotionally acting like children? I'm serious. We look。
like we have it all together. But some of us sometimes cannot admit when we are wrong.。
We cannot receive critique. And we are always criticizing others. Or else we are control。
freaks. We won't let go. People disappoint us. We get hurt so easily. It leads to whining,。
complaining, distancing ourselves from people or just plain sarcastic. I have a name for。
it. I need to call it out. It is childish behavior. Childish behavior. But what's the。
answer? For our answer, let's turn to scripture, which Bonnie read beautifully for us. Philippians。
2, 12 to 13. "Therefore, my beloved, as you've always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence,。
but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For。
it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure." And I want。
to expound these verses before I start to wrap up our series. Now, why have I chosen。
these verses? Well, we need to see it in the light of Paul, who was writing to encourage。
the church in Philippi. This is important. Now, I need to tell you that the Philippian。
church was a healthy church. A church that was doing well. About 18 months ago, didn't。
we? We looked at the seven churches in Revelation and they were mostly problematic churches.。
Backsliding, compromising, dead, lukewarm. But by contrast, Paul's letter to the Philippian。
church is a letter of encouragement. He's saying this, "Guys, you're doing a good job.。
Keep it up." Can I just put an observation here? As the worldwide church, we've got to。
be better at encouragement. As a pastor, I've often got used to people telling us what we're。
doing wrong. I call them the Monday morning emails. This emotional health series was never。
about what we're doing wrong. Paul was saying to the church and to us that they have obeyed。
in the past. He's saying, "Well done, guys." And should continue to work out their salvation。
with trembling and fear. He's saying they cannot be content with past glories. This。
is an important message for the Hong Kong church and for Convoc church. But need to。
demonstrate their faith day by day as they nurture the relationship with a crucified。
and resurrected God. And that is the key. Christianity was never about a religion, but。
a relationship. And relationships have to be nurtured. Imagine a boyfriend, girlfriend,。
or husband and wife relationship without working to nurture the relationship. You see them,。
don't you? They go out to dinner, the two of them, husband and wife, little dinner.。
They're both on their iPhones all evening. You've got to nurture the relationship. Imagine。
to try to get fit physically without working out. By the way, if you find the answer, please。
tell me. In the same way, our relationship with God grows as we work out, express our。
love and nurture the relationship. But I do want to point out that whilst God's justice。
is a cause, a very good cause for sober living, the phrase fear and trembling highlights this.。
But rather it is God's love and enabling grace that will see them through. We read, "For。
it is God who works in you." So they and we can rejoice in God's empowering presence,。
even as they work hard at living responsible lives. While some people would argue that。
verse 12 points towards a salvation by works, it is clear from Paul's teaching that he means。
no such thing. I mean, do you remember when we spent 38 weeks in Romans? I got fed up。
with saying, "For it is by grace that we have been saved," right? Every week. I believe。
that Paul uses the word salvation, not as an alter call and what the church has called。
a sinner's prayer, but in progressively coming to experience all the aspects and blessings。
of salvation. The Philippians' continued obedience is an inherent part of working out their salvation。
in this sense. But as verse 13 points out, these works are the result of God's work within。
his people. As Paul points out, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Even the。
desire within us, we read, "To will." To do what is good, it comes from God. But he actually。
works in the believer to generate actual choices of the good so that desires result in actions.。
Paul's perspective is that everything in the world is being renewed and redeemed under。
Jesus' kingship. And Jesus took on the mantle of king when he overcame sin and death on。
that first Easter morning as the tomb laid empty and the stone was rolled away. My friends,。
we are being matured. We are being perfected by Jesus. That is why Paul encourages us to。
continue working out our salvation. But working out our salvation is the responsibility of。
believers. I mean, don't get confused here with the forgiveness of sins. You know, we。
sing, don't we, "The vilest offender who truly believes that moment from Jesus, a pardon。
received." That's true. But salvation, the wholeness of that word salvation is past,。
present, and future. We are saved. We are being saved and will be saved. At conversion,。
we receive full forgiveness and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Then life is lived in。
the power of the Holy Spirit. Working out our salvation is a partnership. It's God and。
us. His part is doing what He is doing in us right now. For we read it, "For it is God。
who works in you." God's part is massive. On the other hand, our part is to become like。
Jesus. Becoming like Jesus is going to require something from you. Yes, I know it's hard.。
Any of us who've had to fight an addiction will know this. It's hard. Sometimes you feel。
like giving up. But there is joy in partnering with the Holy Spirit. And here's the thing,。
we do this in community. We will be focusing on this as a church over the months of May。
and June in our Church Together series. But for now, let me reiterate and in doing so,。
get to my point. Churches tend to focus on spiritual growth. Now, there's nothing wrong。
with this at all. Churches will focus on reading our Bible, praying, witnessing, going on mission.。
All of these are good things. But churches have by and large ignored emotional growth.。
I've put on the screen Pete Siskiro, the author of the Emotionally Healthy series. He said。
this, "We are created in the whole image of God. We are intellectual, social and emotional。
creatures just as God is. Emotions, it follows, are not simply a matter of controlling behaviour,。
but they are of spiritual concern." And what I want to do in the next 20 minutes or so。
is to recap what we've learnt since the 8th of January and set the scene, as it were,。
for going forward for emotional living in the light of the resurrection. And I need。
to start by looking at what emotions are. Emotions are important. American psychologist。
Paul Ekman says this, "Emotions change how we see the world and how we interpret the。
actions of others." When you see people smiling, you know they're happy. When they're crying,。
you know they're sad. I mean, even Carrie Lam said this when she hosted a press conference。
maskless, do you remember? Across cultures, recognisable facial expressions and certain。
reactions have become associated with the basic emotions. You pick up these vital cues。
from person to person, but do you know what goes into them? A widely accepted theory of。
basic emotions and their expressions suggests that we have six basic emotions. I've put。
them on the screen. They include happiness, sadness, fear, disgust, anger and surprise.。
They often give us an indicator as to the state of our heart. And can I tell you, they。
need to be paid attention to. Most of us that drive cars, we have red lights that go on,。
warning lights. And if the red warning light goes on and you ignore it, that's trouble.。
We have these red warning lights that need to be paid attention to. So if I was to ask。
you the question, are you aware of your emotions? What would your answer be? Or is it just too。
hard to say? I'm going to suggest this, that we, if we don't do anything else, if this。
is all you hear tonight is this, take time, slow down and listen. Ask God to show you。
the areas of your need and your areas of strength. Because what we need to get to the bottom。
of is this, what is happening below the surface? I spoke on this a couple of months ago. Our。
lives are like an iceberg. There is more happening below the surface than what we can see. We。
need to start looking beneath the externals. It is the key to understand what areas need。
growth and need healing. Now this won't surprise you. I'm an extrovert. My drug of choice is。
people. Now it's okay being Jolly John, but the question I need to ask myself is how am。
I really, really doing? In between the jokes and the smiles, what is really going on inside?。
I need to create times of solitude. I need to sit and then I need to sit and then I need。
to sit. Then I need to listen and I need to wait. I do. I need to tell you that waiting。
on God is a highlight of my week. But as an extrovert, there is fear there. If I'm really。
quiet and listen, I'm afraid of what God's going to say to me. In truth, what I'm fearing。
is condemnation, hearing what I'm doing wrong. But when I slowed down and listened, it was。
the opposite. I would hear things like, "You're my son. I love you. John." God doesn't call。
me Pastor John. "John, I'm really proud of you." Knowing the depths of God's grace allows。
me to be myself. And the most profound thing is this, that you are unconditionally loved。
by the Father. In this busy, busy, busy city, may we not be a busy, busy, busy church, but。
take time to sit, sit, sit, wait and listen. When we get beneath the surface, the next。
thing we have to do is look at the past and break its power. We all have family history,。
addictions. We need to say enough is enough. This stops today and break the shackles. Pastor。
Michelle told us this a few weeks ago. This is an ongoing process. Many of us share the。
same traits as our parents and even earlier generations. It might be a temper, a negative。
attitude or even an addiction. God wants to take you back. It's painful and we try and。
fight God. But I believe we have to go back to our past to live more faithfully in our。
present. And the good news is we never have to go back alone. We have a loving God and。
we have each other. Moving on, and this is a big one for me. We have to know our limits.。
When do you say yes and no? I'm speaking to myself here. Sandra will tell you. I'm not。
very good at saying no. But a question we need to ask, what has God given me grace for?。
Some of you are in relationships and you've got to ask yourself, has God given me grace。
for this relationship? Some of you may need to pull out of relationships if they're not。
healthy. And there's some warning signs here. I recognize each one of these like my dashboard。
light. Number one, we get anxious. We worry, lack of sleep. Two, we start multitasking.。
Three, our mind is racing all the time. Number four, we're not fully present. We're at a。
meeting somewhere and someone's talking to me and we're not fully present. And number。
five, we get irritable in normal life situations like when we're in traffic or when we're in。
a queue for a McDonald's and we're in the wrong queue, the other queue's going quicker.。
You know what I mean? We get irritable. Take time. Learn the word no. N-O spells no. We。
don't talk about Bruno. No, no, no. N-O spells no. Remember the story I told you two weeks。
ago about Jesus and Lazarus. Jesus waited. The sister said, "Oh, if only you'd been here."。
The reason we are afraid to say no is that we think we have to appear to be strong, to。
have it all together. And to do so, we have to be at everybody's beck and call. But we。
live in a different way. We live in a kingdom. And King Jesus will always call imperfect,。
broken people to lead and live out of their weakness. Why? Because our vulnerability will。
lead people to Him. It's all about Him, not our strength, not our weakness. I love the。
next one. It's time to party. Celebrating is a huge part of your emotional health. It's。
been my birthday this week. I've really milked it. I've milked this birthday. I'm even going。
out tonight and tomorrow. I've milked it. And the cream was when Sandra and I went to。
Disney on Monday. And people said, "Where are your grandchildren?" "No grandchildren,。
it's just us." All through scripture, we see celebration. Can I be honest here? Some churches。
have forgotten how to have a party. Look at the Bible, the annual Passover, the celebration.。
I mean, the wedding at Cana, they ran out of wine. And what did Jesus do, right? He。
turned the water into wine. He wanted them to celebrate. And we've had a lot to celebrate。
here recently. But what if someone is having something that we want? You know, they're。
having a marriage, they're having a baby, they got a great job. Are we good at celebrating。
with others? And there's a call here, we've got to push through. The key is to celebrate。
the little things, make a habit out of it. Celebration will cultivate gratefulness and。
thankfulness and leads us to our final heading, incarnational living. James told us all about。
it last week. He told us that God became man and moved into our neighbourhood and live。
with us. What's our response? We should weep with those who are weeping. We should rejoice。
with those who rejoice. That is what our city needs at this time. Our city needs empathy。
and not apathy. "Therefore, my beloved, as you've always obeyed, so now not only in my。
presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.。
For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure." God is。
renewing all things under Jesus' kingship and you are an important part of that. As I。
finish, what are the next steps? Whilst the Emotional Health series may have finished,。
our conversation regarding mental health continues. We have wellbeing champions who are trained。
to listen and refer when it's appropriate. Our motto, I'm going to put it on the screen,。
it's OK to not be OK. Contact us on KFCI@GongFuk.org. It will be treated in absolute confidence.。
We're planning this spring a gathering of Christian therapists and trained listeners。
across Hong Kong who will get together and pray and share thoughts and ideas on how we。
can support this initiative. And this fall or autumn, depending on which part of the。
Atlantic you come from, we are planning for several groups from around our city to come。
together for a one-day mini-conference focused on the critical ties between our faith, mental。
health, personal growth, emotional healing and spiritual redemption and transformation.。
This is exciting. Watch this space. My friends, you're not alone. We are here for you. And。
more importantly, we have a saviour, we have a king. He wasn't just a good man. He wasn't。
even just a healer, although he is. He is the one who overcame death. He is risen and。
he is alive. His Holy Spirit is here right now. In the light of the resurrection, he。
reminds us when you are down to nothing, God is up to something. Would you stand as we。
welcome the worship band back. I want to pray first. We're going to sing this song now,。
don't break out, break our walls down. It's really what we need in our hearts and in our。
city. I'm going to invite you if you're comfortable and even if you're watching online to just。
hold your hands out in front of you as an act of surrender. And we invite you Holy Spirit。
to come and work in our lives, to come and work in our church, to come and work in our。
city. I surrender my life to you. I surrender my will to you. I believe you were crucified。
for my sins and I believe you resurrected from the dead and that you live by your Holy。
Spirit in me. I ask you Lord to do something in me tonight that will enable me when I go。
back to my home, when I go back to my work, as I travel on the MTR, that I will carry。
your presence. Lord, I would no longer be a victim of emotional health, but I would。
be part of the solution. Here I am Lord, send me. Spirit break out, break our walls down.。
Spirit break out, heaven come down. Let's sing this together.。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
