What is life all about?。
12 weeks ago, Michelle seemed to take the words from the lips of the writer to Ecclesiastes,。
whether it was Solomon or not, by asking a question,。
"Is life worth living?"。
And for 11 weeks, the preacher, Kohalef, has been experimenting and investigating life under the sun.。
He appears to strongly come to the conclusion, "No, it is not worth living."。
And he supports his argument with the monotony of life,。
the vanity of wisdom, the futility of wealth, and the certainty of death.。
But this week, it's different.。
It's as though the speaker has reviewed his previous arguments and reversed his findings.。
It's like a spiritual version of football's VAR.。
He's come to the conclusion that life is worth living.。
The writer appears to have learned, "Oh yes, life is monotonous,。
but it's filled with challenges and opportunities from God.。
Oh, and yes, wealth could be enjoyed and employed for the glory of God."。
And though wisdom couldn't explain everything, it was better to follow God's wisdom.。
Remember last week, the man's folly.。
And yes, death is certain, but there's no way to escape it.。
So let's make the most of this life and the opportunities that it gives us.。
And maybe this is the key.。
The author may be approaching the latter stages of his life。
and is beginning to see things in a truer perspective.。
I love the Our Daily Bread reading notes.。
I've been doing them for 30-odd years.。
And they sent me a package about three weeks ago.。
It was quite frightening.。
These are the books.。
They sent me seven books.。
Seven books.。
I don't know if they knew how old I was.。
I think they just sent me because I was a pastor.。
And the first one was called "Growing Old Gracefully, Following Jesus to the End."。
I'm reading a chapter every night before I go to sleep.。
And unbelievably, if finishing well wasn't direct enough, think about heaven.。
Ecclesiastes employs many metaphors to describe the vanity of life.。
It talks about chasing the breeze, a path of smoke, dust in the wind,。
or the laughter of fools, or a forgotten memory.。
Life without God, as the writer has demonstrated in many ways, is utterly meaningless.。
Now towards the end, the writer seems to resolve all the questions he has raised。
and he gives his ultimate conclusion.。
Life is not about the five senses.。
Life is more than we just see.。
It is much more.。
And here, the writer will summarise his conclusion by sharing four different conclusions.。
He's going to tell us this.。
Life is an adventure.。
Life is a gift.。
Life is a school.。
And life is a stewardship.。
And what I want to do tonight is look at these one at a time.。
Firstly, life is an adventure.。
Life is an adventure and we are to live it by faith.。
And the writer of Ecclesiastes shares two illustrations。
which demonstrate what it means to live by faith.。
The first one is the investor and the second one is the farmer.。
Let's look at them one at a time.。
Firstly, the investor or merchant.。
Bonnie read this to us.。
For merchants in biblical times, going out to sea was a risky venture.。
Ecclesiastes was saying, don't let that stop you.。
And indeed, it offers some advice.。
As many of you know, I was involved in the financial services industry.。
The running joke was, how do you make a small fortune?。
The way of making a small fortune was to give John Snellgrove a large fortune to invest for you.。
Even my arrival in Hong Kong in 1987 was accompanied by the stock market crash.。
We know as Black Monday.。
But these verses actually give some practical financial advice.。
If you want to live life by adventure, you have to put some money aside for a rainy day.。
So like they say, don't put all your eggs in one basket.。
You learn to diversify your investments.。
And yet, verse 2, look at it.。
It says to give.。
Notice, not to invest, give.。
Give a portion to divide it amongst seven or eight.。
So it's not just about diversifying income.。
It is also about stewardship.。
It's about how to give money away as well.。
I love it how the New Living Translation translates this verse.。
I'm going to read it to you.。
Send your grain across the seas, and in time, profits will flow back to you.。
Today, I guess we'd say, don't put your extra bread in the freezer, give it away.。
Jesus underscored this wisdom when he said, "Freely you have received, freely give."。
Now to send your grain across the seas means to invest your money in other people.。
It is an act of faith.。
Our instinct, isn't it, is to hog all the money.。
Or use the money on just ourselves.。
Yet the point of this passage is that one has to have faith with the money that you give away.。
When you receive an amount of money, trust God with it.。
Give it to God and his work.。
See how the investment returns back to you.。
Now it doesn't mean that if you empty your bank account, and you give it to the church,。
that God is going to give you a windfall. I'm not saying that.。
But it does mean that when you give to God in faith, when you invest in his kingdom,。
there will be returns to that investment in your life.。
So the first example is the investor.。
The second example of living by faith is the farmer.。
I've got a nice picture of the farmer here.。
I want to show you four verses.。
Four ways that the farmer demonstrates living by faith.。
Let's look at the first one, verse 3.。
So firstly, the farmer looks up and around to see if there is danger on the horizon.。
We're told here about falling trees, and we've had some today, I think.。
Falling trees and/or falling rain. We've had both of those today.。
I love the Hong Kong Observatory website.。
It's actually amazingly accurate.。
If we're preparing for a day out, perhaps a boat trip to an outlying island,。
we can check on the possibility of rain, the humidity, the wind direction.。
We can see if any typhoons are approaching.。
And for a farmer, working in harmony with the weather is fundamental to maximizing crop yields.。
And so farmers seem to have this inbuilt ability to sense conditions。
that will be dangerous to that crop yield.。
Let's read on, verse 4.。
"He who observes the wind will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap."。
So secondly, the farmer is not so cautious that he does nothing.。
But he doesn't spend his time daydreaming.。
He doesn't spend his time with his head in the sand.。
We all know enough, don't we?。
That we don't go to the swimming pool in the middle of a T8.。
In the same way, the farmer wouldn't go out to sow seeds or pick the crop.。
The context comes from verse 5. I've put it up.。
"As you do not know the way the Spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child,。
so you do not know the work of God who makes everything."。
And thirdly, the farmer realizes that ultimately, all things are ultimately in God's hands.。
He realized that he cannot know everything that God can do.。
So he trusts God by faith.。
Look at verse 6.。
"In the morning sow your seed, and in the evening do not withhold your hand,。
for you do not know which will prosper, this or that, or whether both alike will be good."。
Lastly, the farmer proceeds with his work with an eye towards all possible contingencies.。
This expression, "you don't know" actually appears three times in chapter 11.。
Yes, life is an adventure.。
While the farmer is trusting God by faith, he is prepared to act if the situation changes.。
So the first way to see life is that it is an adventure.。
The second way to view life is that it is a gift.。
I want to tell you that life is a gift and we are to enjoy it.。
Look at this.。
"Life is sweet and pleasant for the eyes to see the sun."。
So if a person lives many years, let him rejoice in them all.。
But let him remember that the days of darkness will be many.。
All that comes is vanity.。
First of all, what does the preacher mean when he says that light is sweet。
and that seeing the sun is pleasant?。
I don't know about you and I, I want to put my sunglasses on straight away.。
But from a psychological point, sorry, I got it wrong, physiological point,。
researchers continue to learn more and more about the truthfulness of this statement.。
We know that exposure to sunlight releases serotonin in the body,。
a hormone that helps regulate mood, calm anxiety, balance digestion and other many functions.。
For all its simplicity, a walk in the sunshine is one of the greatest weapons。
against various forms of mood disorders.。
But it's also interesting to note that the subtle shift is taking place。
towards what is happening here.。
Because the writer, for 11 weeks we've been talking about the phrase "under the sun"。
throughout Ecclesiastes.。
Now he's directing us to gaze towards the sun.。
And the preacher will finally turn our attention above the sun in the epilogue.。
But in the meantime, what he's saying is this,。
don't wait until you're old and grey like me.。
Start when you're young.。
Now history has always seen the older generation, the so-called wise,。
I'm right Vincent, aren't I?。
The so-called wise, telling the young generation what to do.。
When I was young, a long time ago, the advice to make it in life。
was to forget everything else and concentrate on what we called the three R's.。
Anyone remember those?。
Which were apparently reading, writing, hold on, and arithmetic.。
Obviously spelling wasn't one of them.。
But here the preacher, Kahlil, gives us his three R's.。
He says rejoice, remove and remember.。
So let us first rejoice.。
Rejoice, oh young man, in your youth.。
And let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth.。
Walk in the ways of your heart and the sight of your eyes.。
But know that for all these things that God will bring you into judgment.。
Charles Spurgeon, the great 19th century preacher, once said,。
"It's not how much we have, but how much we enjoy that gives us happiness."。
Rejoice and then remove.。
Remove sorrow from your heart and put away pain from your flesh。
because youth and the prime of life are fleeting.。
Let go of the pain and remove sadness.。
You don't need to be filled with sadness in your life.。
We are told, aren't we, that the youth and the prime of life are fleeting.。
Many of us ask ourselves, where did that time go, right?。
And we ask it more when we get older, I tell you.。
Ecclesiastes says, don't waste it.。
So rejoice, remove and then remember.。
The final command is to remember our creator in the days of our youth.。
We are told to do so before the evil days appear.。
Turn to God before old age sets in.。
Remember also your creator in the days of your youth。
before the evil days come and the years draw near,。
of which you will say, I have no pleasure in them.。
The key words here, two words, remember and before.。
The word before begins the final poem of Ecclesiastes.。
And for this poem, the preacher writes heavily in metaphors.。
I'll need to explain it to you.。
So the meaning could be quite difficult to interpret.。
Now to find the meaning, we need to understand that verses 2 to 7 are poetical.。
They're poetically used to cement the idea presented in verse 1.。
He tells us to remember our creator in the days of our youth.。
And now he defines what he means by youth.。
He says, remember God before blank happens to your body.。
That's the definition of youth.。
Remember God before blank opens your body.。
God blanks in in a moment.。
And between Ecclesiastes 12, 3 to 5, we see 13 parts of a picture。
that are used to describe the process of life and ageing.。
The picture of a house.。
Here we see different parts of a house that begin to fall apart.。
When we have an old house, it begins to fall apart.。
Warren Wiersbe actually lists here 13 different parts of the house that fall apart.。
This is quite interesting.。
He said, in the day when the keepers of the house tremble.。
He's talking about your hands and your arms trembling.。
It happens when you get older.。
And strong men are bent.。
Your knees, your legs, your shoulders, they weaken.。
And you start to walk like this.。
You're bent.。
And the grinders cease.。
You start to lose your teeth.。
Thank goodness for Peter and for Florence.。
That's all I say.。
You start to lose your teeth as you get older.。
And those who look through the windows are dimmed.。
Your vision begins to deteriorate.。
Thank goodness for Gordon and for others.。
And the doors on the street are shut.。
Either your hearing starts to fail, or you close your mouth because you've lost your teeth.。
On to the next slide.。
When the sound of the grinding is low.。
You can't chew your food.。
Or your ears can't pick up the sound outdoors.。
Rises up at the sound of a bird.。
You wake up with the birds every morning and wish you could sleep longer.。
And all the daughters of song are brought low.。
Your voice starts to quiver and waken.。
And they are also afraid of what is high.。
You're terrified of heights.。
And afraid of falling when you walk down the street.。
The almond tree blossoms.。
If you have any hair left, it turns white.。
Like almond blossoms.。
The grasshopper drags itself along.。
You also drag yourself along like a grasshopper at the close of a summer season.。
And desire fails.。
You lose your appetite.。
Or perhaps your sexual desire.。
Because man is going to his eternal home.。
And the mourners go about the streets.。
You go to your eternal home.。
And people mourn your death.。
That's what the poem means.。
But let's have a look at the rest of the poem.。
This is interesting.。
Before the silver cord is snapped or the golden bowl is broken.。
Or the pitcher is shattered at the fountain.。
Or the wheel broken at the cistern.。
Again, poetic reminder to make the most.。
The silver cord is actually our spinal cord.。
The golden bowl is broken is our brain.。
The pitcher is shattered refers to our veins.。
Or the wheel broken at the cistern.。
It means our heart no longer works.。
And death follows old age.。
He says this, "And the dust returns to earth as it was.。
And the spirit returns to God who gave it.。
Vanity of vanities, says the preacher.。
All is vanity.。
Look where we ended up.。
Vanity of vanities.。
You've heard that before, right?。
All is vanity.。
Vanity of vanity.。
How fitting is it that this poem of finality should conclude。
with the verse that began in the first poem in Ecclesiastes.。
But let me summarise this call.。
This call to enjoy life with a message to both the young and the old.。
Firstly to the young, rejoice in the days of your youth.。
Remove the sins and the frustration that will ruin and waste your life.。
And remember your creator now.。
As a young person now, prepare for the day that you will walk through chapter 12's poem.。
Secondly, to the old.。
Your latter years are not the time to coast through life.。
The race is almost complete.。
So sprint to the finish line.。
And now we come to the final section of the final chapter of the book of Ecclesiastes.。
For 11 chapters, we have been looking at ways that people try to find meaning in life。
and how that effort fails.。
The author then turns to his take on what life is all about.。
Earlier we looked at life as an adventure.。
Life as a gift.。
We end this section as well as the book with two last ways to view life.。
One should live life as a school and as a stewardship.。
So thirdly, life is a school. We are to learn our lessons.。
Someone said that life is like a school except you sometimes don't know what the lessons are。
until you've failed the examination.。
It's true, right?。
God teaches us primarily from his word.。
I can't just reinforce what Bonnie said.。
We're doing 1 Corinthians over the next eight weeks.。
Take time this week. Set aside time and read 1 Corinthians.。
You will get so much more out of the sermon series if you've read the book for yourself。
because God teaches us primarily through his word.。
But he also teaches us through creation, through history and the various experiences of life.。
So let's take a look at the characteristics of God's curriculum in the school of life.。
Number one, God's curriculum is wise.。
Verse 9, "Besides being wise, the preacher also taught the people knowledge."。
As always in wisdom literature, knowledge is more important than information.。
For verse 1-7 says, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, the beginning of knowledge."。
"Fools despise wisdom and instruction."。
It involves the know-how of understanding and applying God's will to everyday life.。
But even more, it entails the know-whom of a relationship of fear, obedience and loyalty towards God.。
Secondly, God's curriculum is orderly.。
It says here, "Weighing and studying and arranging many proverbs with great care."。
I mean, God's word may sometimes be difficult to read sometimes.。
But it does have an order, a pattern, a grand story, a narrative.。
Once you understand that, then learning God's curriculum is easy to understand.。
Thirdly, God's curriculum is accurate.。
"The preacher sought to find words of delight and uprightly he wrote words of truth."。
The truth that God's word shares is accurate.。
Now there may be parts of the Bible we don't understand. I understand that.。
But I tell you, a 12th grade student has a better understanding of English than a first grader.。
The reason that student has spent much more time with the subject matter.。
The same is true with the Word of God.。
Fourthly, God's curriculum is inspired.。
"The words of the wides are like goads and like nails, firmly fixed are the collected sayings."。
"They are given by one shepherd."。
I think one of the things about church today, you know, it's...。
There's a lot of comments on style, you know.。
When you talk about preachers, sometimes it's, you know, it's not what they're saying,。
but the way it's sort of delivered, the style, you know, which has become a little bit like that.。
Particularly like those sort of mega church type model.。
God's word. God's word is just as important as the way it's transmitted.。
It doesn't matter if you read it on a printed Bible or a smartphone.。
God's word will work. It is inspired.。
"All scripture is God breathed out by God and profitable for teaching."。
"It is for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness."。
"That the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work."。
2 Timothy.。
It has a purpose.。
And it doesn't matter the method of transmission.。
The message will be meaningful for eternity.。
Jesus said it this way, "Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away."。
I just want to go back to that phrase, "The words of the wise are like goads."。
You might not know what a goad is.。
Goad is a pointed stick.。
It's used to guide and prod animals in the direction the herder wants them to go.。
A wise teacher sometimes use sharp and painful words to guide students as they think through difficult issues.。
Lastly, God's curriculum is sufficient.。
It says, "My son, beware of anything beyond these."。
"Of making many books there is no end, and much study is a weariness of flesh."。
You go to a Christian bookshop today.。
There's enough books there to last about 20 of your lives.。
There's so many books now.。
I just want to tell you, read other books.。
Other than the Bible, it's like taking elective courses.。
Electives are not necessary to complete learning in school.。
Being in band or sports may give you a wider understanding and experience,。
but they are not necessary to graduate from school.。
The same is true spiritually.。
You can read devotional books from various authors to gain insight, and it's very good.。
However, they are elective courses.。
They are not the Bible.。
We're nearly there, and we've possibly saved the most important to last.。
Life is a stewardship.。
Fear God.。
Jesus summarized the Old Testament with the following two commands.。
And he said to him, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind."。
This is the first and great commandment.。
And the second is like this, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."。
On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets.。
Now here in Ecclesiastes, we too have a summary of the Old Testament.。
Verse 13, "The end of the matter, all has been heard."。
Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man.。
For God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil.。
And so we are reminded to do two very important things.。
To fear God and to keep God's commandment.。
Ecclesiastes ends where the book of Proverbs begins.。
With an encouragement for us, a command to fear the Lord.。
Oswald Chambers said the remarkable thing about fearing God is that when you fear God, you fear nothing else.。
Whereas if you do not fear God, you fear everything else.。
If I fear God, and by fear I mean give proper respect to God,。
then I'll want to keep his commands, keep his commandments.。
If God's word lasts forever, then it's best to learn to keep his commands.。
And Ecclesiastes finishes with a call.。
A call to prepare for the final judgment.。
I know we don't like talking about this in church, but it says,。
"For God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil."。
If there is no God, there is no judge.。
If there is no judge, there will be no final judgment.。
If there is no final judgment, there is no ultimate meaning to life.。
Nothing matters.。
If there is no God to judge the world, then human existence is pointless.。
It's a pointless dispute that ends in meaningless despair.。
The preacher who wrote Ecclesiastes would have agreed.。
From the beginning of his book, he has been saying that if there is no God, there is no meaning.。
Nothing matters.。
However, as Christians, we believe that life on earth does matter.。
There is a heaven and there is a hell.。
There is going to be a judgment.。
It says here, there will be two judgments.。
The good and the bad judgment.。
If you are a Christian, you don't have to worry about judgment.。
The New Testament clarifies that a reward judgment awaits Christians.。
Jesus paid the price. It was finished upon the cross.。
The bad judgment is for those who do not know Jesus.。
So, is life worth living?。
Yes!。
But only if you are truly alive through faith in Jesus Christ.。
Then you can be satisfied.。
No matter what God may permit to come into your life.。
As I asked the band to come up, we are going to be singing a song.。
"I Will Build My Life."。
My question to you is, what are you building your life upon?。
Can I encourage you today, if you are not building your life upon Jesus Christ,。
if you are not trusting Him for your salvation,。
can I encourage you to do that?。
Maybe you have never done that.。
Maybe, well, I think I have, but I am not sure.。
The foundation has to be sure.。
Let's just close our eyes for a moment.。
As I ask you the question, what are you building your life upon?。
If you are building your life upon anything other than Jesus Christ, it is quicksand.。
In Hong Kong, when we build a new skyscraper, the bit you don't see is actually those foundations go down deep.。
The foundations have to be laid first.。
The foundation is for you to surrender your life to Jesus Christ.。
Ask Him to forgive you of your sins and come into your life.。
I just want to give an opportunity if there is anybody here tonight who hasn't done that yet.。
Maybe you have been coming to church for weeks, but you have never given your life to Jesus Christ.。
You can do that right here and right now.。
Just while every eye is closed, if there is anybody here tonight who wants to say,。
"Jesus, I give my life to you. I will build my life upon you."。
Just while every eye is closed, can you just raise your hand so I can see it, so I can pray for you.。
It may well be we are all Christians and that is great together.。
But I want to give that opportunity.。
Thank you, Jesus. Let's all stand together.。
And let's, as we finish this series in Ecclesiastes, let's declare this song together.。
I will build my life upon the rock that is Jesus Christ.。
And yes, life is worth living. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
