(Applause)。
Thank you, thank you.。
Alright, so as some of you may have suspected,。
I'm not actually from Hong Kong.。
Originally, I'm from Australia,。
where I got this beautiful accent from.。
Now, before I came to Hong Kong, I knew some things about it.。
Subtropical place, in a changeover,。
big financial hub, great food.。
I didn't know much, but I knew some things.。
As I came here, I started to see the skyscrapers with my own eyes.。
I tasted the dim sum, I rode the ferry.。
I started to clock some experience with the city.。
And then, over time, I have my own things that I love about Hong Kong.。
My favourite restaurants, my favourite places to go.。
I have my own frustrations.。
I get to know some of the people and the culture.。
I went through some pretty significant events with Hong Kong.。
Now, I went through this city with sheer joy。
and also various uncertainties.。
Now, I still don't know Hong Kong fully.。
I don't even speak Guangdong dialect.。
But you can see the difference from when I first came,。
where I kind of knew some things about the city,。
to now where I'm really kind of knowing the city.。
I feel the heartbeat.。
I understand it a bit.。
I understand the one and a half different seasons here.。
The more I know it, the easier it becomes home.。
Now, this is the same as how we want to grow with knowing God.。
To move on the journey from knowing about God。
to knowing Him deeply.。
And to do this, we're going to start with Psalm 23,。
the Psalm that is at the core of this book,。
"Don't give the enemy a seat at your table."。
The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.。
He makes me lie down in green pastures.。
He leads me beside still waters.。
He restores my soul.。
He leads me on paths of righteousness for His name's sake.。
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,。
I will fear no evil, for you are with me.。
Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.。
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.。
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.。
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life,。
and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever."。
Now, I don't know about you, but as we read,。
"You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies,"。
it's easy to get a little envious of this,。
even though it's true for us.。
But with His enemies around Him, David is focused on God.。
He is focused on Your goodness, and love will follow me.。
I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.。
And look at how David describes God earlier in Psalm 23.。
"He restores my soul. He leads me beside still waters.。
I will fear no evil, for you are with me."。
Now, this about our God is as true for you as it is for me as it was for David.。
So then why so often, when God is with us in the presence of our enemies,。
do we want to focus on our enemies rather than on God?。
Now, the key difference is this.。
Often when I'm reciting Psalm 23 to myself,。
I'm simply reminding myself of things I know about God.。
Now, this is a good thing to do.。
But David didn't just know these things about God,。
but he is listing out his experience with God.。
As Pastor John pointed out earlier in this series,。
this Psalm wasn't some nice lullaby.。
It was written from a full life with God,。
a full life of mountains and valleys with God.。
Not just mountains and valleys, mountains and valleys with God.。
Now, David is declaring these things from a place of knowing God,。
from walking with Him, from a life of having been open and vulnerable with Him,。
from experiencing and understanding His grace and forgiveness.。
It is through all this that even in the presence of the enemies,。
he is focused on God.。
Now, last year we had Pastor Francis Chan come and speak to us,。
and one of the things he urged was that we can look at the menu,。
we can look and see that God is good,。
but we don't want to be just stuck looking at the menu.。
We want to do as David does, says in Psalm 34, 8.。
We want to taste and see that the Lord is good.。
We want to experience that God is good, that He is with us.。
This is where David wrote this Psalm from.。
And to unpack one reason why this is so important,。
when God is right before us in the presence of our enemies,。
the more we know Him, the easier it is for us to trust Him.。
But wait, God's trustworthiness isn't dependent on whether we know Him or not.。
So let's consider the statement this way.。
The less we know Him, the more hesitant we are to place our trust in Him,。
the more easily we will place our trust elsewhere.。
Let me say that again.。
The less we know Him, the more hesitant we will be to place our trust in Him,。
the more easily we will place our trust elsewhere.。
The easier it is for then us to say,。
"Hmm, maybe we need to pull up some other seats at this table.。
Maybe just for safekeeping.。
Maybe I'll look somewhere else for comfort, peace, acceptance, direction, forgiveness."。
Now, let me give you an example from my own experience.。
When I was younger, I really felt God telling me that I needed to stop getting drunk.。
I was a Christian then, and I knew this was from God,。
and I could understand that this was what I needed to do, but I didn't want to.。
How could I have a better life with whatever God had planned。
than if I just did what I wanted to do?。
I didn't know how I could fit in and make friends.。
I had no idea how God was going to lead me, so it was hard and full of failure.。
It was easier for me to trust what I already knew.。
While I knew God was speaking to me, it was so hard to be focused on Him,。
to follow Him.。
I could understand His way would be better,。
but there was comfort and familiarity in my own way.。
And it's important to mention that it is hard for us to trust what we don't know.。
It's also important to mention that God is at our table.。
How we react to Him being there doesn't change who He is,。
it just changes how we react to Him.。
Whether or not we know Him deeply doesn't change that He is trustworthy.。
But if we are to be fixated on God so that we can more fully enjoy what He has for us,。
and we don't give the enemy a seat at our table,。
it is vital that we are getting to know this God who we are to trust and follow.。
So you may have also noticed that the title of this sermon is 'Staggered by the Mountain'.。
It is based on a moment in his book where Louis discovers that he really needs to go from。
knowing about God to knowing God.。
Now, my experience is a different experience and a different process,。
but really a point in my life where I realised I need to go from knowing about God to knowing God.。
I realised I couldn't just take what God had said and do it on my own.。
I needed to walk with Him, go to Him in failure.。
I needed to accept His grace and forgiveness and walk alongside Him.。
I needed to taste and see that the Lord is good.。
It was then I was more easily able to trust and follow Him.。
Now, this doesn't guarantee us no problems or failures,。
but we can know more deeply His grace, comfort and boldness that we see in Psalm 23.。
It then goes from something we recite to ourselves to remind us of God's goodness,。
to one we declare as we experience that He is good.。
We can go from, 'Valley of death, but God is with me, God is with me'。
to 'I will fear no evil, for God is with me'.。
And as we know Him more deeply and since they fixated on Him,。
we can come to know more deeply His goodness, grace, forgiveness and love.。
Now, maybe this gives us a sinking feeling like,。
'Oh, I find it really hard to trust God. Do I really even know Him?'。
But let me be clear, this is not a message of guilt about knowing God enough.。
This is a message of excitement and encouragement.。
It's actually amazing that we can get to know this star-breathing Creator of the Universe in this way,。
walking alongside in deep one-to-one relationship, just as David did.。
And I'll let you in on a secret, we all need to work on this.。
This is a process for all of us.。
Getting to know God in this way isn't overnight.。
And some of us may find it harder than others.。
And there may be some moments of rapid growth.。
But even for David, this was a process.。
We often think of David as bursting onto the scene。
and taking down Goliath in this amazing act of faith.。
In 1 Samuel 16, we are first introduced to David and the next chapter, boom, down goes Goliath.。
Amazing. What an act of faith. And it was.。
But let's look at 1 Samuel 17 37.。
"And David said, 'The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear。
will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.'。
And Saul said to David, 'Go, and the Lord be with you.'"。
Before Goliath, David had been building up his trust in God for years。
as he had seen Him working and protecting him.。
His journey didn't start with this giant event that we all know.。
So whether you're just exploring or new to faith or have been following God for years,。
be encouraged that we can continue to know Him more deeply。
and that this is a process for all of us.。
So when He is with us in the presence of our enemies,。
we don't just know that He is good, but we know that He is good.。
We can trust Him enough to be fixated on Him wholly。
and we don't give the enemy a seat at our table.。
Okay, well, that's all exciting, but maybe sounds a little bit lofty.。
So let's get practical.。
How do we actually move along this process from knowing about God。
to really knowing God and having deep relationship with Him?。
Now, we need to learn about God, have community around Him,。
and dialogue with Him.。
So we need to learn about God, have community around God,。
and work on our dialogue with God through praise, confession, and practicing trust.。
So let's look at learning about God.。
Now, you may be thinking, after this whole spiel。
from going to knowing about God to knowing God,。
is this guy actually just say that?。
But this is not a contradictory statement.。
Part of the process of getting to know God is to be actively learning about Him.。
When I started dating Mel and she told me things about her。
such as, "I was born in Canada," or, "I'm training in intensive care,"。
my response wasn't to say, "That's irrelevant.。
I'm trying to get to know you, not about you."。
It's part of it.。
As we get to know God deeply and personally,。
this doesn't mean we stop learning about God and His character,。
but it does mean we actually experience Him and know His character more deeply.。
We need to be pursuing a deeper understanding of God and His character.。
In his book, Louis Giglio lays out a great example of this.。
Let's look at Isaiah 6, 2-3.。
We see six-winged angels called seraphim。
that are covering their feet and faces crying out,。
"Holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty."。
We can see this and see that God is holy.。
Already we have a truth about God.。
He is holy, set apart, and sacred.。
But we can go deeper.。
These angelic beings are covering their faces and feet.。
They're so in awe of God that they can't even look at Him。
and they're covering feet in honour of Him.。
And they are crying out, "Holy, holy, holy."。
Now, why are they saying this three times?。
Surely once is enough, right?。
As we see in Hebrew, when a word is repeated, it doubles the emphasis.。
To see this repeated three times is actually extremely rare.。
So we have these angelic beings so in awe of God,。
crying out, not just to say He is holy,。
but He is holy, times holy, times holy again.。
He is holy, holy, holy.。
Now, this is just one example.。
We're just scratching the surface.。
But the step of learning more about God and learning His character。
is vital in knowing Him.。
As we come to see and know more of His character,。
we come to see who it is that we are to place our trust in.。
So what does this mean for us practically?。
This might simply mean for some of us that we need to read the Bible.。
If this is a hard habit to build,。
signing up to a reading plan on a Bible app can be a really, really helpful thing.。
Now, this may mean we need to start actively memorising Scriptures,。
writing them on our hearts.。
And it may mean we need to start looking at some of the commentaries,。
getting deeper into what these texts are saying.。
So let's look at having community around Him.。
Now, I'm a guitarist.。
A lot of what I have learnt has been through my own practice.。
But the expertise and experience from other musicians。
has been invaluable to my own growth.。
In sharing my joy and knowledge of the instrument,。
I strengthen what I know, sometimes through correction from others.。
But I also learn from their knowledge and their experiences.。
And through this, I gain a deeper understanding about the guitar.。
I get to know my instrument better.。
Now, the same is true for when we come together with others。
and walk with each other in our faith.。
This is what God is doing in my life.。
Wow, so great to hear how God has come through for you.。
God is teaching me this right now.。
We grow with God as we walk together with Him,。
learning more about Him and witnessing Him working in each other's lives.。
So practically, what can we do here?。
Get that community.。
Get involved in a clan if you're not already.。
Find a prayer partner, someone who you share with.。
This is something I've been doing with a friend of mine in Australia。
for a number of years, and it has honestly been one of the most。
beneficial things in my journey with God.。
And lastly, in your family life,。
prioritise and be intentional about walking with God with your family.。
And so, the third is working on our dialogue with God.。
As we do life with God, we get to know Him more.。
So how does that look actually?。
The truth is that it's us who needs to get to know Him more.。
He already knows us deeply, but He desires for us to let Him in.。
This Psalm 23 has brought so many, so much comfort in so many dark times.。
So let's take a look at some other examples that David has left。
through his Psalms with his dialogue with God.。
Now this is a three-parter.。
We're going to look at praise, confession, and practising our trust in Him.。
So let's look firstly at praising God.。
What a surprise, the worship leader says we need to spend more time in praise.。
Which, yes, but through music is just one way we praise God.。
We need to be giving Him thanks and acknowledging who He is.。
Now let's take a look at Psalm 145, 1-4.。
And this one we're going to read out together,。
and really take note of the words as we speak them out.。
Let's go.。
"I will exalt you, my God the King.。
I will praise your name forever and ever.。
Every day I will praise you and extol your name forever and ever.。
Great is the Lord and most worthy of praise.。
His greatness no one can fathom.。
One generation commands your works to another.。
They tell of your mighty acts."。
This actually goes on for 17 more verses.。
I mean, can you imagine just sitting and writing out all of this praise to God?。
So why is this praise so important?。
In his praise, David is acknowledging who God is.。
Look at verse 1.。
"I will exalt you, my God the King."。
Now remember, David was literally a king.。
So as David puts God in this position, he's humbling himself and exalting God.。
God is king.。
With that praise coming out, we can't justify following our own way.。
We can't justify clinging on to the enemies around us。
as we proclaim that God is king.。
Throughout the Psalm, David also speaks of his character.。
"Greatness no one can fathom.。
Mighty acts.。
Gracious and compassionate.。
Slow to anger.。
Rich in love."。
Calling out his character, who he is.。
We see this also reflected, actually, when Jesus teaches us how to pray in Matthew 6,。
where he starts off with, "Our Father in heaven, hallowed be thy name."。
He's acknowledging who he's praying to, our Father in heaven, and praises him.。
Hallowed, meaning wholly consecrated.。
How could I not want to follow this God?。
I want to know this God more and more.。
I want to be in deep relationship with this God.。
I want to experience this God.。
His ways are far greater than mine.。
This is a God I can trust.。
Here we see David actually praising upon the mountaintop.。
We'll get to praising the valley, don't worry about that.。
But like David, we also need to be praising God when we're on the mountaintops.。
Because equally in those moments, we need to remember who is king, and that is God.。
But David didn't just have these moments of praise boxed in their own little corner.。
Never to be seen amongst struggles and fear or repentance.。
But this carried with him in all sorts of circumstances.。
So practically, what are we going to do?。
We need to make praise a regular part of our dialogue with God.。
In our prayers to God, call out his character.。
Praise him for who he is, prioritize it.。
Before we get to, "Please help me, and I'm struggling with this."。
Praise him in the good times and the bad.。
Get the relationship right with God, that he is good, that he is holy, and that he is king.。
Starting with our prayer life.。
Now my challenge to you is this.。
Set aside some time in prayer to just praise him.。
Speak of his goodness, call out his character.。
But set aside some time where the only thing you do is praise him.。
Now the second is confession.。
Often when we fail, and what I know from experience, one of the prominent voices we hear is,。
"Really? After that? After failing yet again?。
You're going to come to God as if you're still some sort of Christian?。
I don't think he wants to hear from you."。
Now let me be clear, this is a lie.。
Sometimes I would believe this lie, but what we must do is to ignore that lie and run to God.。
When we fail, the only place to run to is God.。
There's nothing you can do that will make God not want to hear from you.。
Again, there is nothing you can do that will make God not want to hear from you.。
Now let's look at some of Psalm 51,。
which is a Psalm written by David after he was confronted by the prophet Nathan for adultery and murder.。
"Have mercy on me, O God, according to your unfailing love,。
according to your great compassion, blot out my transgressions.。
Wash away all my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin.。
For I know my transgressions and my sin is always before me.。
Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight.。
So you are right in your verdict and justified when you judge."。
What David had done was horrible, yet even he is able to come to God, confess, receive forgiveness,。
and not be defined by these sins, but by who he is in God.。
And God already knew his sins.。
He sent the prophet to tell David so that David was aware of them.。
But by bringing his sins to God, David doesn't just know that God is forgiving,。
but he knows God's forgiveness.。
Look closely as David confesses.。
"According to your unfailing love, according to your great compassion,。
you are right in your verdict and justified when you judge."。
As we go on to verse 14 and 15.。
Through his confession, David is praising God, calling out his character.。
In verse 14 and 15, we see that with God's forgiveness, David knows that he can praise God freely.。
And notice what it's not.。
"I'll praise you, but I'll still remember all my sins and that I'm horrible and that I'm inadequate."。
It's not that at all.。
This does not take David back to square one in his relationship with God.。
Again, this doesn't take David back to square one in his relationship with God.。
And this is why our praise is also so important here in confessing our sins.。
If I hold myself as king, I still fall short.。
I don't deserve God's forgiveness.。
But if God is king and God is Lord, I am forgiven fully.。
So what do we do?。
We need to come in confession to God regularly.。
It doesn't just have to be the big ones.。
My challenge to you is to make this tangible.。
Write them out or say them out loud.。
They don't have to be adultery or murder.。
We all need to have time of confession to God.。
Praise Him as you do so and then receive and know His forgiveness.。
And lastly, we need to practice trusting God.。
Now this is a little bit like the chicken or the egg.。
Well, does knowing God help me trust Him or does trusting God help me know Him?。
And the answer is really both.。
So now remember, whether or not we place our trust in God does not determine whether or not He is trustworthy.。
He is.。
But this is precisely why we want to know Him more.。
That we may find it easier to place our trust in Him and walk with Him.。
We all know what it's like to be in those places where we don't know what God is doing.。
Where we can't see what's ahead of us.。
Now let's take a look at my personal favourite psalm, Psalm 13.。
"How long, Lord, will you forget me forever?。
How long will you hide your face from me?。
How long must I wrestle with my thoughts and day after day have sorrow in my heart?。
How long will my enemy triumph over me?。
Look on me and answer, Lord my God.。
Give light to my eyes or I will sleep in death.。
And my enemy will say, 'I have overcome him.'。
My foes will rejoice when I fall.。
But I trust in your unfailing love.。
My heart rejoices in your salvation.。
I will sing the Lord's praise for He has been good to me."。
I still remember reading this for the first time and just being blown away by that shift in verse 5.。
I mean, look at this brutal honesty in verses 1 to 4.。
"Will you forget me forever?。
How long will my enemy triumph over me?。
Give light to my eyes or I will sleep in death.。
David is in a heavy place.。
No one is envious of him in these four verses.。
But then within all of this, within all the frustration, uncertainty, feeling of abandonment,。
David commits to trust God.。
He remembers that the Lord is good and commits to singing his praises.。
He is vulnerable with God and he places his whole trust in Him."。
Now, he isn't a backup plan, he is the whole plan.。
And we see here praise again.。
And I want you to consider going through this without praise.。
Without "God is King", we think, "Is God King?。
I know He's helped me before, but should I get this one?"。
We need to remember God is King.。
We need to be honest with Him in these times and trust and praise Him.。
And this is consistent with David throughout his Psalms.。
Somewhere he's literally being hunted by enemies.。
But this doesn't only apply to us when we're literally being hunted.。
Of Psalm 13, Charles Spurgeon says this,。
"The Psalm cannot be referred to any special event or period in David's history.。
All attempts to find it are birthplace are but guesses.。
It was doubtless more than once the language of that of much tried man of God。
and is intended to express the feelings of the people of God。
in those ever-returning trials which beset them."。
This is for us in all times with that struggle,。
whether it is in lust, anger, jealousy, greed, whatever it may be.。
So what are we to do?。
We need to be honest with God.。
He already knows everything anyway.。
Looking at David in Psalm 13,。
look at David in Psalm 13.。
With whatever is going on, we need to bring that to Him,。
lay it down at His feet and trust Him to take it.。
All of this takes practice.。
Remember, this is a process for all of us.。
And this may look like, "Lord, I'm struggling so much with this sin.。
Please take this burden for me."。
Or, "Lord, I don't understand what is in front of me, but I trust in You.。
Lord, I'm so stressed out with work, but I know You are in control.。
I give these worries to You."。
Again, this can really help to make this tangible.。
Write them out or speak them out loud.。
And we may never solve the chicken or the egg。
with whether trusting or knowing God comes first, but that's okay。
because what you will find is that as you step out and place trust in God more,。
you will grow in knowing Him, and you will grow in experiencing Him,。
and you will see that He is for you, if a band can come up.。
So I invite you on this process.。
It's an exciting one, and it's one that we will all go through together,。
of learning about God, having community around God,。
and dialoguing with Him in praise, confession, and trust.。
And then we can say with confidence, with joy, from a place of knowing God deeply,。
"I praise Him for He is good. He has forgiven my sins.。
I trust Him in the good times and the bad, and I have seen Him come through.。
Even when I am surrounded by all of my enemies,。
He is the only one at my table, and I am fixated on Him.。
I know God, and I trust Him."。
Let me pray.。
Lord, we thank You that You are a good God.。
You are holy. You are worthy of praise.。
You are worthy of all trust, Lord.。
We thank You that we have this opportunity to walk in relationship。
with this God who created the universe, Lord,。
from the big, massive stars to every single little piece of sand on the shores.。
And we thank You, Lord, that You are not a distant God,。
but You are a God who reaches out to us, who comes to us.。
Lord, You sent Your Son to die for us so we may be forgiven for our sins.。
We thank You that You are a God who wants to be in deep relationship with us.。
And Lord, we cry out that we want to get to know You more, Lord.。
We repent of the times that we struggle to trust You, Lord,。
and we repent of the times when we would rather be doing something else.。
But Lord, help us to just run to You in all circumstances。
and get to know You more deeply, Lord.。
And we ask that You'll be revealing Yourself to us more and more, Lord.。
And we thank You that You are doing that, Lord.。
Help us to recognise You working,。
that we, in all circumstances, can know that You are with us,。
that You are God,。
and that You are the only one we need at our table.。
We pray this in Your name. Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
