You。
Last week I stood here。
introducing Susanna。
when I stood here I was。
69 years of old。
just。
Today。
I'm 70。
And。
had six days。
Something。
Has changed. I。
am now in my eighth decade a。
Septuagenarian for those who like long words to put this in the context the same as Donald Trump。
By the way, I loved the dinner and。
There is nothing better in my humble opinion than a church eating together. Do you agree?。
and。
following last week's excellent talk by Susanna I。
want to talk today about。
change。
And I've called this week's sermon。
serving。
changes me。
But before I go further let me put this into perspective。
Serving will not save you。
I'm gonna repeat that again。
Serving will not save you how we are saved is by faith in God's Son Jesus Christ。
and by accepting the free gift of salvation that could be paid for only by his precious blood。
No amount of good works。
No amount of good works。
no amount of good behavior or。
No amount of service。
Can save us from our sins?。
But read my lips。
We've each been saved in order in order to serve those around us do you get that?。
Christ called each of his disciples to follow him and he charged them with。
Doing things that he himself could have done in the blink of an eye。
and。
In the same way he will task us you and me。
With things to fulfill our purpose here on earth。
Remember our theme for this series。
saved people serve people。
And I want to make a very simple point today。
Serving is the quickest way to see change in our lives. I'll say it again。
Serving is the quickest way to。
See change in our lives. I want to ask you a rather obvious question。
Do you want to be more like Jesus?。
I've put the answer on the screen。
If you want to be more like Jesus。
Focus more on serving others than being served。
We'll be looking later at Matthew 20 28, you know it the Son of Man that's Jesus。
Came not to be served but to serve。
Philippians 2 7 but Jesus emptied himself。
by taking the very nature of a servant。
The best way we can make a difference in our workplaces。
to improve our marriages those who are married and。
Discover our spiritual gifts is to serve those around us。
Serving is the quickest way。
to see change in our lives and。
Tonight I'm going to be making four points. Yeah, I know。
Sermon should be three points, but I'm greedy right four points。
First one is this。
serving increases my faith and。
To make my point I'm gonna do it dwell delve into a well-known。
Story the account of Jesus's first miracle that we know as turning water into wine。
Those of you were here on time tonight actually saying it right Jesus tells the story. Let me read it to you。
on the third day。
There was a wedding at Cana in Galilee and the mother of Jesus was there。
Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples。
When the wine ran out the mother of Jesus said to him they have no wine。
Jesus said to mom woman。
What does it have to do with me?。
My hour has not yet come。
His mother said to the servants do。
Whatever he tells you。
Now there were six stone water jars there for Jewish rites of purification。
each holding 20 to 30 gallons Jesus。
said to the servants fill the jars with water and。
they filled them up to the brim and。
He said to them。
now draw some out and。
Take it to the master of the feast。
So they took it when the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine and did not know where it came from。
But the servants who had drawn the water knew the master of the feast called the bridegroom and said。
Isn't everyone serves the good wine first and when people have drunk freely then they serve the poor wine。
but you。
Have kept the good wine until now。
this the first of his signs Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and。
manifested his glory and。
his disciples。
believed in him I。
Want to direct your attention to the use of the word?。
Servants it's in verse 5 and verse 9 and as an aside here G。
John uses the Greek word the ocanus from which we get our term deacons。
The servants are referred to in several more verses by the words either they them or you。
The point is it is these unnamed servants that I want to focus on。
Though Jesus could have filled the water pots merely by his word。
He preferred to use the servants。
That was such a blessing。
Because。
He still does that today。
and。
He wants to use you。
Let's look at it more closely。
Note there was firstly the want expressed verse 3 they have no one。
That was followed by the way explained fill the jars with water。
Then came the will exercise they filled them up to the brim and。
This was followed by the wonder experience。
The water was made wine。
What we've just witnessed here here is a miracle。
with a message I。
Put a quote on the screen。
Evangelist and prolific author dr. G Campbell Morgan once said this every parable that Jesus spoke。
was a message was a miracle of instruction and。
Every miracle。
Jesus performed。
Was a parable of instruction. I'll say that again。
every parable Jesus spoke was a miracle of instruction and。
every miracle Jesus performed。
Was a parable of instruction。
Here we have a miracle。
That is filled。
with insight into Christian service。
It started with。
anxiety。
Which led to activity?。
Which leads to adequacy I。
Don't about you I was so moved by much of Susanna's talk last week。
Those slides man。
The Hong Kong rich poor gap。
Those who were living in caged dwellings and I think for me, especially the story of that child。
That was found dead at home after the mother's suicide attempts。
To be honest it troubled me。
It made me want to do something。
To see the deep needs met。
And what I want to do now is look at those three aspects。
Firstly the anxieties that troubled these servants。
Now in Palestine a wedding rather like in Hong Kong was a big thing。
In fact, the biggest thing going on in those days was a wedding。
The servants were troubled。
Because the wine has run out。
Because the wine has run out。
We find out of wine what。
We found out of wine what there is no more wine。
Nothing could be more devastating at an Eastern wedding than this。
The servants were troubled about the resources that were inadequate。
The servants were struggling with what they were to do。
For the F&B to fail was unacceptable as well as inexcusable. I。
Don't know if more people came than was expected。
Perhaps they're like Hong Kong people. They don't bother to RSVP. You know what I mean?。
But the wine ran out。
What were these servants going to do this was a crisis situation for these servants。
Everyone was looking to the servants to give them the wine。
But the resources ran out。
The servants were troubled about the reprimand that was inevitable。
Now a bit of background here in Bible times wedding feasts could last up to a week and。
It was considered a crime。
For a host for a host to allow the the feast to run out of food or wine in。
Fact actually one was liable to be sued in a court of law。
Wow。
It could be costly both financially and socially to run out of food or wine。
No doubt the servants felt like quitting. I。
mean。
How would you feel they'd given all they had?。
And there was nothing more for them to give。
However, I love this verse 5 Mary speaks out in verse 5 some of the best advice known to man。
Mary pointed the men to Jesus。
Mary makes an announcement to the servants and it revolved around the authority of God Mary directed the servants。
Consciously to observe his orders without disputing or asking questions. This is what she said。
Do whatever he tells you。
Do whatever he tells you that could be our motto should be our motto for life, right?。
The second aspect is the activities which tested these servants。
Now draw out some wine and take it to the master of the feast. They were not given an easy task。
They didn't just take the water water pots to the taps because there weren't any。
There were no taps。
there must have been a spring or a well somewhere and。
They had to carry water to fill those water pots。
The six stone water jars that were used for ritual cleansing。
The weight of the water alone。
Was between 160 and 240 pounds in each jar。
That's well over a thousand pounds in total up to a hundred and sixty。
gallons of water by the way。
That was how much wine there was going to be。
It is worth our attention。
to note。
that Jesus。
employed the use of the servants I。
Mean Jesus could have filled these pots by merely speaking the word。
However, God loves to give us his servants an opportunity to labor with him。
God chose to use the servants to share in the work。
He who is a。
supernatural God。
chooses to use。
natural men to accomplish his work I。
Want you to consider two things?。
Firstly consider the apparent uselessness of Jesus's request。
They needed wine。
They needed wine not water。
These guys were said why do we need water?。
What Jesus had told them to do made no sense。
If Jesus had told them to go to the equivalent of Park and shop to go and buy some wine。
It would have made perfect sense。
However。
That would have been walking by sight。
and。
Jesus wanted them to walk by faith。
What they were told to do made no sense at all。
What does filling pots with water have to do with the need of wine。
They yell no gout well, you know, it's what what's going on here。
They were going to have to trust the Lord with this one。
The assignment of the servants revealed the secret of God's activity。
He was going to work through them。
Secondly consider the absolute thoroughness of the servants report response。
We read they fill them up to the brim。
Whenever we get a command from God。
It is always our wisdom to carry it out zealously。
I heard a story of a customer in a restaurant。
Who once asked the waitress?。
Suspiciously after seeing the menu。
She said why do you call this?。
Enthusiastic stew。
The waitress explained the cook put everything he has into it。
That's exactly what these servants did。
The wisest thing that we can do。
Is to obedient be obedient to the Word of God。
to the work of God and。
to the will of God。
The command was draw out now。
Draw out now。
Wow, that was amazing. Remember two weeks ago。
Interesting and reminded me of the passage of Jesus and the woman at the well in John 4。
and the third aspect is the。
Adequacy, which thrilled their soul. They were not going to run out again。
160 gallons is equivalent to around 800 of our bottles, right? It's a lot of wine。
The thing is。
When we've done all that we can do it doesn't mean that God is not able to do something。
When we've done all we can do it doesn't mean that he has done all he can do。
The servants had exhausted their ability。
But they had not。
But they had not。
expended his ability。
In the servants accomplishment we see the secret of the ability of God。
We know from the words of the ruler of the feast that the wine that they served at the beginning of the feast was the。
Best they had on hand。
But it was far inferior。
To what Jesus provided later indeed the ruler of the feast。
Praised the bigram for what seemed to be wise planning. You saved the best wine to last。
And I thought about this。
Jesus always leaves people better off。
Than they were before he found them。
Jesus always leaves people better off than they were before he found them。
The governor was amazed at the unnatural keeping of the best wine to last。
But what puzzled the ruler of the feast。
Was actually no secret to the servants。
Think about the world the world offers you a lot。
But what the world does is this the world offers you the best at first。
And then once you're hooked into the things of the world things get worse。
But I believe the best is yet ahead for the child of God。
Grace always operates contrary to nature always leaving better things ahead for us。
Christ was the one to work the miracle。
Yet the servants were the ones who seemed to be doing everything。
They filled the water pots. They drew out the wine. They delivered it to the governor of the feast。
Christ pronounced no magical formula. He didn't even command the water to become wine。
What was witnessed by the spectators?。
was servants。
Though the means used were human the result was seen to be divine。
God's ability。
accomplished ministry through these servant servants。
The servants were used of God in bringing him glory。
The Lord performed the miracles。
But he used willing vessels to accomplish it。
The servants were only God's tools in bringing the miracle of the wine into the lives of people who were gathered。
The servants faith was elevated。
the master of the feast。
Didn't even see the miracle the guests at the wedding。
Didn't see the miracle。
But the servants did I thought this is just like real life。
We're sitting in here on a Saturday evening。
We haven't seen that Johnny's been。
With the young people in Titus this afternoon. We haven't seen that young man who who committed his life to Jesus。
I've heard outreach or at Titus。
When he's up there in China ministering to students we don't see it, but she's doing it。
Ken invited Claude who was in Beijing to alpha online。
Real life example, there's much ministry that God desires to do。
But what he desires is willing and available servants。
Johnny's and Winnie's and Ken's who are willing to have their faith stretched。
It leads me to point to。
You're hoping I get there eventually serving helps me discover what I'm made for。
Ephesians 2 10 for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works。
Which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them?。
Can I remind you we are not saved by works?。
But it is given to us so that we can be his workmanship his handiwork。
His masterpiece, I love that word masterpiece. I think of the Mona Lisa created by the master da Vinci。
I。
Want to go back to 1995 one of the reasons I'm standing here tonight 1995 I。
Was a businessman we running an Alpha course。
In Hong Kong in those days. It's always live talks。
Someone says we would you give one of the talks I can remember the talk. How does God guide us? I。
Was very nervous, but。
Yeah, I did the talk then。
Well, hey, I can still do this and next alpha course. I did two talks and next half after I did the weekend。
These little things that we do。
Can lead to something that God is creating in us。
his workmanship。
his handiwork。
His masterpiece and that is what Paul meant。
Peter also in 1 Peter 4 10 as each of us each has received a gift。
Use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace。
my friend you。
Have been gifted by God。
And I incredibly valuable to him and the church。
Let's move on to point three serving ads connection。
People describe what you're sitting through now as。
the English service。
I'll be honest with you. I've never wanted to run an。
English service I've always wanted to see。
this as family。
Rather than just a church service. It's why I'm passionate about our clans and our other small group activities。
Look at our music team. They don't just play instruments together。
Paul runs it as a family。
They laugh together cry together do life together。
Serving on a mission team is another great example. You go out on a mission team and you come back as family。
People I've been on mission teams with have become friends for life. I。
Guess what I'm saying is that serving together?。
Changes the person who's sitting into the next row。
to a colleague。
to a friend。
to someone we can do life with。
If I may use the Hong Kong example of property such a hot topic here。
When we make connections。
We move from being a guest in the house。
to a tenant。
To an owner a guest says I really love your church。
Tenant says I really love our church。
The owner says I really love my church。
I want each one of you to know that you matter you can say to yourself. I matter。
You don't feel like you you matter when you're just one of the crowd。
But you move from showing up to making yourself available。
And that's why I've called every one of us to be involved in this peace box initiative。
This is not about peace boxes。
It's about connection。
Which leads me to my point for my last point?。
Serving changes my focus。
The next passage I'm going to read is a key passage for our whole series。
Matthew 20 but Jesus called them to him and said。
You know the rulers of the Gentiles lord over them and their great ones exercise authority over them。
It shall not be so among you。
but whoever would be great among you must be your servant and。
Whoever would be first among you must be your slave。
even as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve and to give his life as。
a ransom for many in。
The run-up of this passage the disciples are angry。
Because James and John with the help of their mum wanted special privilege。
From Jesus in heaven they wanted the they wanted to be on the top table right left hand side right hand side。
Earlier in Matthew they'd argued about which one of them was the greatest。
Rivalry。
amongst the disciples。
For prominence in the kingdom set the stage for Jesus's summary teaching on greatness。
But hold on。
Before we're too hard on disciples。
Sober reflection reveals this struggle in all of us。
we often witness in places like Hong Kong a。
Struggle for face for position。
For title and the power and the privilege that comes with it。
even our churches。
the quest for prominence。
Frequently lurks in both pew and pulpit the desire for recognition。
often reveals a servant heart。
mixed with much pride。
Jesus presented a。
Revolutionary idea of greatness that is not found in worldly aspirations for prominence。
Namely what we call servant leadership。
Yes, there does need to be authority in life's relationships as seen in biblical teaching concerning family church and government。
but。
But when we seek these things as a means for self-promotion。
to gain personal prominence and control over others that。
resembles the world's ways more than Christ's ways and。
That calls for a deliberate change of focus。
Building on his teaching in Matthew 19 20 that the first shall be last。
the Lord Jesus defined greatness。
using himself as。
the example。
He rendered the ultimate。
servant act of。
substituting himself for us on。
the cross。
My prayer is that we as individuals and as a church。
Would be changed as。
We become more like our Lord and Master。
than like the world。
In。
1983 Graham Kendrick who wrote the song shine Jesus shine wrote a song called the servant King。
Will actually sing it in a moment。
But it finishes like this. I want you to take these words in。
So let us learn how to serve。
and in our lives in thrown him。
Each others needs to prefer。
For it is Christ。
We're serving。
And the chorus goes like this. This is our God the servant King. He calls us now。
to follow him。
to bring our lives as a daily offering of。
worship。
to the servant King。
Can we do that? I asked the band to come up。
I'm gonna ask you to stand。
And what we're gonna do we don't often finish like this is we're gonna read a prayer together。
I'm gonna put it on the screen in a moment. We're gonna read a prayer together and。
Then we're gonna sing the servant King。
If it's a song that's unfamiliar to you just look at the words, they're beautiful。
But we're gonna sing that together as we finish our service today。
Right, we've got on screen. Thank you very much。
Okay, you ready we're gonna read this together one two three my dearest Lord Jesus。
You did not come to be served。
But to serve and to give your life as a ransom for me. I love you. Thank you for that。
Thank you for forgiving me when I have a self-centered what's in it for me。
consumer mentality I。
Want to have a what can I do to help?。
servant mentality。
Because I want to serve you。
I'm so grateful that you're making me a masterpiece for good purposes。
Thank you for preparing eternally significant things for me. I want to discover what I'm made for I。
Want to add connections work side by side with others for a thriving life。
Making a difference for others for now and forever。
Your kingdom come your will be done in me through me all because of you。
I asked this in your name and authority。
Amen, let's worship together。
(burps)。
