Thank you very much and good morning everyone。
大家早上。
I'd like to just begin with a word of prayer if we could today。
我們一齊祈禱。
Heavenly Father, thank you for this time together。
親愛的天父,我也多謝你,讓我們有時間一齊。
Thank you that we could worship you in song。
我們用詩歌來讚美你。
And now please help me and bless as we look into your word。
求你幫助我來到去講道。
We pray in Jesus name, Amen。
奉主耶穌的名祈禱,Amen。
I'm very thankful to be with you again today。
in the Cantonese congregation at T4C。
我很感恩今天可以來到你們當中和你們正道。
I especially thank Pastor Har for his kind invitation to me。
我特別感謝夏牧師來邀請我來到你們當中。
And I also thank Betty Chan for being willing to translate for me。
也多謝翻譯。
On July 9th I preached a sermon here on Psalm 3。
在7月的時候我用詩篇第3篇和大家講道。
And today I would like to preach on another psalm, Psalm 13。
今天我會來到講詩篇第13篇。
This next week we will start fall semester classes at the University of Northwestern。
下星期我在西北大學秋季的課程會開學。
And so all this last week we had faculty meetings。
所以上個禮拜我們有很多老師的開會。
As we gathered for our meetings we prayed for one of our faculty。
當我們開會的時候我們圍到其中一個老師來祈禱。
She's on leave of absence this fall。
她是暫時休假的。
Last Easter doctors first discovered that her husband Scott。
had an aggressive cancer in his lungs。
在復活節的時候。
她的先生發現有惡化的癌症。
And that cancer has now quickly spread throughout his body。
她的癌症很快就在她的身體裡擴散。
They are a middle-aged couple。
他們是中年的夫婦。
And they have two children。
他們有兩個小孩子。
They have a daughter who is a junior in high school。
and a son who is in 8th grade。
她的女兒是在初中。
她的兒子是八年級。
At first they were counting the time the husband had left in years。
他們初初的時候是在數算他丈夫史覺。
可能還有幾年的生命。
And they were hoping the husband would live。
until the son graduated in five years。
他們期望可以看到他兒子五年後畢業。
Then they started counting the time he had left in months。
然後他們就數算他的生命只剩下幾個月。
And now as his cancer becomes more aggressive。
they are counting the time in weeks。
現在他的癌症是更加的惡化。
他數算他的生命是幾個星期。
Needless to say they are devastated。
當然來說他們大家都很震驚。
And I am sure they are wondering。
where God is in the midst of all of this。
我相信他們在想。
神究竟在這件事情裡面。
神在哪裡呢。
Family and friends have been praying for Scott。
家人和朋友都為了他們來祈禱。
And yet it seems every time。
the doctors do an examination。
the results are worse。
而每一次他們去醫生檢查的時候。
他們的結果都是比上一次更加差。
And the husband's time left to live is shorter。
他先生剩下來的時間是更加的短。
So has God forgotten them。
是不是神忘記了他們呢。
I also know a young woman in her mid-thirties。
我也認識一個年輕的女子。
她大約三十多歲。
She is faithful to God。
and seeking to serve Him。
她很努力的來跟隨神。
She would like to marry。
她很希望可以能夠結婚。
And she and her family and friends。
have prayed for many years。
that God would bring a special man。
into her life for her to marry。
她的家人和她的朋友。
都為了她這件事來祈禱。
求神來將一個特別的配偶帶給她。
But so far nothing has happened。
直到現在都還沒有任何事情發生。
And sometimes they think。
that God has forgotten them。
有時他們想。
神是不是忘記了他們呢。
And God has turned His face away。
from their prayers。
是不是神將他們的臉轉了。
不聽他們的祈禱呢。
I am sure we could multiply the stories。
of people who wonder。
if God has forgotten them。
我相信我們可以加很多。
其他的類似的故事。
人在懷疑。
神是不是忘記了他們。
I think of older people。
who are confined to beds in nursing homes。
我想起有一些長者。
他們在療養院的病床。
Some of them seldom have anyone visit them。
有些人是很少人來探望他們。
And their life and strength。
seems to be slipping away from them。
他們的生命好像是慢慢的衰退。
They sometimes feel forgotten by other people。
有時他們覺得好像被人遺忘。
And sometimes even forgotten by God。
有時甚至他們覺得被神遺忘。
I think of other people。
who are afflicted by diseases and illnesses。
and find no relief。
有時候有些人是在病痛中找不到釋放。
Others have suffered irrecoverable loss。
有些人是得到無法彌補的損失。
Many such people have prayed for years。
that God would give them relief from their problems。
and the situation that they are in。
有很多人已經為他們的處境。
或者難處祈禱了很多年。
但是得不到解脫。
And they have not experienced。
an answer to their prayers。
他們得不到神的答案。
Has God forgotten them?。
是不是神忘記了他們呢?。
It is one thing if we as people forget。
人是會忘記事情的。
And we all do sometimes。
我們很多時候都會忘記。
I think of an absent-minded seminary professor。
我記得有一個心不在焉的神學。
And I'm not talking about myself here。
這個神學教授不是我在說我自己。
He went to speak in a week of meetings。
in a church a few hundred miles from his home。
他被邀請到一個地方。
是離他家幾百里的。
And when the meetings were over。
he flew back to his own city。
他做完講完之後。
他回來他自己的家。
And he took a cab to his house。
他坐的士回到他家。
He was greeted at the door。
by his wife questioning him。
他太太在門口迎接他。
She asked him, "Where is the car?"。
他問他, "你的車呢?"。
Did you forget you drove this time?。
你是不是忘記了。
你自己開車去那個地方?。
Yes, he had forgotten.。
沒錯,他忘記了。
And he had to go back to the airport。
and fly back to the other city。
so he could drive his car back home.。
所以他要開車回到機場。
然後飛去他講到的地方。
拿回他的車然後回家。
It's human to forget.。
人是會忘記的。
But does God forget?。
但是神是不是真的會忘記呢?。
In Psalm 13, David laments the fact。
that God has forgotten him.。
在詩篇十三篇,大衛哀嘆神忘記了他。
He's not asking if God has forgotten him.。
他不是問神是不是忘記了他。
He's charging God with forgetfulness.。
他是控告神遺忘了他。
Notice what he says。
in the first two verses of Psalm 13.。
我們來看詩篇十三篇第一和第二節。
我會讀第一和第二節。
耶和華說,你忘記我要到幾時呢?。
要到永遠嗎?。
你掩面不顧我要到幾時呢?。
我心裡愁善不安。
內心終日愁苦。
要到幾時呢?。
我的仇敵勝過我要到幾時呢?。
Since God is eternal,。
David asks if God's forgetfulness will last forever.。
神是永恆的。
大衛就問神。
你忘記我要到幾時呢?。
是不是要到永遠呢?。
Four times in these two verses。
he asks God how long.。
在這兩節聖經裏面。
大衛是問了神四次。
要到幾時呢?。
This suggests intense frustration on his part.。
我們看見大衛感受到很強烈的挫敗感。
And his repetition of this question。
I think is designed to motivate God to answer him.。
他重複地問神這一句說話。
是想觸動神來回答他。
He can't understand why God is withholding help from him.。
他能夠明白為何神不施予拯救呢?。
Especially since he is serving God.。
尤其是他是服侍神的人。
The picture in the second sentence。
is that God is deliberately avoiding David.。
在第二句那裏特別讓我們看到。
神好像是故意地離開大衛。
David is apparently forsaken by God.。
大衛感受到他被神離棄。
And he feels like God doesn't care about him.。
神不再關心他了。
Verse 2 suggests David is experiencing loneliness and sorrow day and night.。
第二節那裏大衛感受到愁苦和孤單。
The verse hints that he lies awake at night。
trying to find some escape, some way out of his troubles.。
每一晚他在睡覺的時候。
他來到去籌算。
想找到避難的方法。
But when the morning light comes。
instead of bringing hope。
it only renews his pain.。
當黎明的時候。
他找不到解決的方法。
並且是更加的痛苦。
And he has another day of sorrow ahead of him.。
而且重新又再來經歷第二天的愁苦。
Then he cries himself to sleep again the next night.。
他晚上又哭泣。
甚至到然後才能夠入睡。
His best plans are futile.。
他最好的計劃其實都是徒然的。
Any counsel he receives is worthless.。
人家給他的忠告都是沒有用的。
He is hurting.。
他在受苦。
And there is no way out of his grief and sorrow.。
冒發是從他的悲痛和傷痛裏面走出來。
In the last line of verse 2 he mentions his enemies.。
第二節最後那裡講到他的敵人。
They seem to be like circling vultures。
hovering about and waiting for his fall.。
那些仇敵好像那些禿頭鷹。
在他的上面來賠償。
等他來跌倒衰敗。
It's likely in the original context。
the enemy was someone who opposed David's kingship.。
很可能在原文那裡。
講到仇敵就是他對抗大衛的人。
But verse 3 speaks of his death.。
但是在第三節講到大衛的死亡。
And so some people think his enemy is the physical ailment.。
有些人就想可能他講到敵人。
是不是講到他身上的病痛呢。
He doesn't specify who or what his enemy is.。
在經文裏面大衛沒有很清楚的指明。
究竟他的敵人是病痛還是一些人。
And that makes it easy for us to apply the psalm to our own situations.。
所以詩篇十三篇是很容易應用在我們個人的身上。
It can apply to whatever our burden is.。
無論我們的處境我們的重擔。
我們都可以來去應用。
There's one other point we ought to consider。
before we go any farther in the psalm.。
我們首先來去想一下這一點。
If God has forgotten David, then why does David pray to God?。
如果神是忘記大衛的。
大衛為何還要向神祈禱呢。
In verses 1 and 3 he even uses the personal name for God, Yahweh.。
第一節和第三節大衛甚至用耶和華這個名來呼叫神。
This name refers to God as a God who relates to people。
and makes covenants with his people.。
耶和華這個字是指神是一個與人納約的神。
亦都是與神有關係的神。
David knows his God.。
大衛認識這個神。
Why would David use his personal name if he felt God had forgotten him?。
如果大衛認為神是忘記人的神。
他為何會用耶和華的名來稱呼他呢。
Apparently deep in his heart。
he realises that God actually knows about his situation.。
很明顯大衛在他的心裏知道神知道他的情況。
And he realises God is the only one who can deliver him from it.。
他亦都了解到神是唯一的希望來幫助他解脫任何的問題。
That's why he prays to God.。
所以他向神祈禱。
How should we respond to our suffering and misery?。
我們應該怎樣去回應我們的悲痛和難處呢。
Let's look at three ways that David responds in the rest of the psalm.。
我們來看看大衛用了三種方法來回應。
First David prays to God for help in verses 3 and 4.。
首先大衛在第三節和第四節。
他是向神祈禱求助。
Let's read those verses.。
我們讀第三和第四節。
第三節。
耶和華我的神啊求祢看顧我應允我。
我的仇敵勝過我要到幾時呢。
耶和華我的神啊求祢看顧我應允我。
求祢使我的眼睛明亮免得我沉睡至死。
免得我的仇敵說我勝過了他。
免得我跌倒的時候我的仇敵就歡呼。
In verses 1 and 2 David was lamenting.。
在第一和第二節大衛是哀嘆。
But in the first line of verse 3 he calls out to God to hear and answer his prayers.。
在第三節大衛是呼喊神來聽他的祈禱和應允他的祈禱。
He seems to be screaming out to God for help.。
這個意味著他是大聲的來呼喊神。
Sometimes to pray seems like simplistic and trite advice.。
有時我們提議人家去祈禱好像是很簡單很平凡的提議。
But true heartfelt prayer is the best thing a believer can do when hurting.。
其實當一個信徒是傷心難受的時候。
祈禱是最好的方法。
Not only does David demonstrate faith by praying。
不單止大衛是來表達他向神的信心當他祈禱。
But in verse 3 he calls the Lord "my God".。
他也稱呼神為"我的神"。
Thus he is further confessing his trust in God.。
所以我們看到他是更加的來表達他對神的信心。
He knows there is only one God who can deliver him from his distrust.。
他肯定只有一位神可以來拯救他的難處。
In the second line of verse 3 he uses the imagery of a man who is slowly dying, perhaps on a battlefield.。
在第三節第二句那裡說到一個景象。
他形容一個人好像在戰場上慢慢地死亡。
David says he is like a person whose life forces are fading away.。
大衛說他自己好像一個人生命力慢慢地衰退。
Unless he gets help soon, he will pass away.。
除非他快點得到幫助,否則他就會死亡。
One commentator suggests the words "give light to my eyes"。
communicate the idea of imparting new life.。
有一個解經學者解釋這一句說話。
他說"使我眼睛明亮"這一句說話是意指得到新的生命。
Such a new life is reflected in the fresh, clear brightness of the eyes.。
這個新生命從他的眼睛重新有神可以看得到。
This imagery could communicate our need to have our eyes refocused on the character of our God.。
這個圖畫也可以讓我們看到我們需要將我們的眼目重新定精在神的身上。
This will restore health to our spiritual life.。
是會幫助我們重建我們健康的屬靈的生命。
We are to pray to God to enlighten our eyes and give us spiritual life.。
我們要向神祈禱求神給我們有新的體見,有健康的靈明。
We should pray that God would give us a new perspective of himself.。
我們要向神祈禱求神給我們有新的觀點,新的認識。
We need to have our eyes refocused on the character of God.。
我們需要將眼睛定精在神的身上,對他的本質有更新的認識。
Because the real problem of a forgetting God is found in our view of God.。
其實最大的問題,我們認為神是忘記人,其實是我們自己的問題。
It's not his character.。
不是神自己的本質出了問題。
We need God to enlighten us with a true understanding of who he is.。
我們需要神來幫助啟發我們明白真正認識這位神是如何的一位神。
And David prays for this.。
大衛就是這樣來祈禱。
Notice also how David reasons or argues with God in verses 3 through 4.。
我們亦都留意第三節和第四節,大衛怎樣從神來到理論呢?。
He gives three reasons why God should answer his prayer and deliver him from his problems.。
他有三個理由講給神聽,為什麼神要來聽他的祈求,英文的祈求。
First, at the end of verse 3, he says if God doesn't intervene, he will die.。
首先他在第三節說,神如果你不插手來干預,我就會死。
He realizes he is totally dependent on God for his life.。
他認定他的生命要完全依靠神,在神的手裏面。
And since he is trusting in God, his situation reflects the power and faithfulness of his God.。
他說他是一個信徒,所以看到他的處境是反映出神的能力。
If God doesn't deliver him, it will appear as if God is weak and unfaithful.。
如果神不拯救他,就會看起來好像神沒有能力去拯救他,和神是很軟弱的。
There is also a second way that he seeks to motivate God to deliver him.。
第二樣的論點,他用來想激勵神去救他。
If God doesn't deliver him, the enemy will think he has won the victory over David and his God.。
如果神不拯救大衛,他的敵人,他的仇敵就會想他們勝過了大衛。
And third, he argues that his enemies will rejoice if he fails.。
第三點,他的敵人就會很開心,會很歡樂。
They will blaspheme God's name.。
他們會來褻瀆神的名。
I want to emphasize that we should think about our requests when we pray to God.。
我想強調一點,就是當我們來向神祈求的時候。
And we should support them with arguments.。
我們應該好像大衛那樣,用一些論點來支持我們的祈求。
That's what David does here.。
這個就是大衛他做的方法。
The saints do this throughout scripture.。
聖徒在聖經裡面都是這樣做的。
Job talks about doing this in Job 23, verses 3 through 4.。
《約伯記》記載約伯也是這樣做。
在約伯記二十三章三至四節。
唯願我能知道在哪裡可以尋見神,能到他的臺前。
我就在他面前將我的案件陳明滿口辯白。
Moses does this in several places.。
摩西在聖經裡面有幾次都是這樣做的。
For example, in Numbers 14, the Israelites reject the report of the spies.。
例如在《文素記》十四章那裡,以色列人拒絕探子的回報。
And they refuse to enter the land of Canaan.。
他們不願意進入迦南地。
So God wants to destroy the nation.。
所以神就想消滅以色列民。
Then Moses prays that if the Lord destroys Israel, the nations will hear about it.。
所以摩西就跟神說,如果神消滅以色列民,其他萬國都會聽到,知道的。
And they will say that the Lord was not able to bring the people of Israel into the land that he promised them.。
他們就會說,萬國就會說,神拯救不到以色列民,帶他們進迦南地,所以就消滅了他們。
And when Moses prays this, the Lord relents.。
當摩西這樣向神祈禱的時候,神是留情的。
And the Lord does not destroy the Israelites.。
神沒有消滅到以色列民。
Instead, the Lord reaffirms the promises he had made to bring Israel into the land he promised them.。
反而神是重新向以色列民來應許,帶他們進入迦南地。
It brings glory to God when he keeps his promises and takes care of his people.。
當神守約和來看顧他的子民的時候,是會帶給神榮耀的。
We should pray for things that will bring God glory.。
我們都應該同樣地為那些可以帶給神榮耀的事情來祈禱。
And we should remind him that when he keeps his promises to us and delivers us, it brings glory to him.。
我們應該去提醒神,當他守約看顧他的子民的時候,是會將榮耀歸給他的。
In Psalm 13, David prays fervently for deliverance.。
在這篇13篇,大衛很懇切地來祈求,請救。
And that is how we should pray when we need God to deliver us from our agony.。
我們都應該同樣地來祈禱,當我們在痛苦、憂傷裡面。
David also remembers God's character in verse 5.。
大衛也記得神的本性在13章5節那裡。
Let's read this first.。
我們讀第5節。
但我倚靠你的慈愛,我的心因你的歡欣,因你的救恩快樂。
This is the second thing we should do when we think God has forgotten us. Remember his character.。
這個就是第二件事情我們應該要做的。
當我們認為神是忘記我們的時候,我們要記得神的本性。
He has prayed for a new vision of God in verse 3.。
在第3節那裡,大衛向神祈禱,祈求一個新的領會。
And now he has a new vision of God's character.。
神就讓他認識到神的本性。
And his confidence is restored.。
他的信心就來到去恢復了。
He confidently exclaims that he is trusting in God's unfailing love.。
他很有信心地宣告他倚靠神的慈愛。
This is one of the most important attributes of God.。
這個永不止息的愛是神其中一種最重要的屬性。
It's sometimes called his steadfast love.。
有時候可以叫做堅定的愛。
It's the basis of every promise and covenant he makes with his people.。
堅定的愛是神與人的應許和神與人納約的基礎。
This word occurs over 250 times in the Old Testament.。
堅定的愛這個字是在聖經裡面出現過250次。
And we can't understand our God until we understand this characteristic of him.。
我們不能夠明白神,直到我們對這個堅定的愛有深深的體會和明白。
Let's look at a few examples of this word in the Old Testament.。
我們來看一下聖經裡面怎樣來講關於堅定的愛。
I mentioned earlier that Moses argues with God not to destroy the Israelites in Numbers 14.。
我提及文數記十四章,摩西和神爭論不可以消滅以色列民。
In that situation, Moses argues with God on the basis of God's unfailing love.。
在那件事情上面,摩西就是用神堅定的愛來做他的論點。
Notice what it says in Numbers 14 verse 19.。
我們留意文數記十四章十九節怎樣講。
求祢照祢的大慈愛赦免這百姓的罪孽,好讓祢從埃及到如今常赦免他們一樣。
God had made promises to his people Israel to give them the land and to make a great nation of them.。
神是給以色列民允許之地,並且令他們成為大國。
And because of his steadfast unfailing love, he could not break those promises and destroy the people.。
由於神堅定不變的大愛,他不可以違背他自己的承諾。
In 1st Chronicles 16, when David establishes choirs in the tabernacle to sing and praise the Lord。
在歷代至上十六章那裡,當大衛來到建立利美人的詩班。
他在耶和華的藥櫃面前稱頌、唱詩、讚美。
He does it because of the Lord's steadfast love.。
他這樣做是因為耶和華的慈愛永遠長存。
Notice 1st Chronicles 16 verse 41。
我們來看看歷代至上十六章四十一節。
與他們一同被派的有希曼、耶稻頓和其餘所選名字錄在冊上的清謝耶和華,因他的慈愛永遠長存。
The steadfast love of the Lord is the reason the Israelites sing to God。
就是因為神的慈愛永遠長存,以色列人向神唱歌讚美。
And it's the reason we should sing to God also。
同樣我們都是因為這個原因我們來向神唱歌讚美。
When Hosea buys back his adulterous wife Gomer and remarries her。
當何西亞聘取他自己淫亂的妻子戈馬和他再結婚的時候。
We are told that it's a picture of God's steadfast love to Israel。
我們知道這是一幅圖畫反映出神對以色列民堅定不移的愛。
Notice Hosea 2.19。
我們留意何西亞書2章19節。
我必聘你永遠歸我為妻,以仁義、公平、慈愛、憐憫,聘你歸我。
Because of his steadfast love, God cannot forsake his people。
就是因為這個堅定的愛,神是不會離棄他的子民。
He keeps his promises and is faithful to them。
守他的約,並且永遠愛他的子民。
Later today you might read Psalm 136。
今天你回到家可以自己看看136篇。
Every other line in Psalm 136 speaks of God's steadfast love。
詩篇136篇每一節都講到神的慈愛是永遠長存的。
God's character is at stake if he should for a moment cease to care for and think of his children。
如果神有任何一個時間,一刻,他不看顧他的子民或者不去愛他的子民的時候。
神的誠信就會受到崩潰。
Or if he would not keep his promises to them。
或者他不履行他的諾言,神的誠信就會受到威脅。
We are weak and helpless。
人是軟弱的,是無助的。
And without his steadfast love, we will fail。
沒有神的慈愛來幫助我們,我們一定會失敗。
But our only hope and the reason for David's confidence in Psalm 13 is the loyal love of God。
在詩篇13篇裡面,大衛給我們看到他認定神就是他唯一的希望。
他要依靠耶和華的慈愛。
It will never fail。
是永遠不會失卻的。
And when David remembers God's steadfast love, the psalm changes from complaint to joy。
當大衛記得耶和華的慈愛的時候。
詩篇就從哀嘆變成讚美。
How can we have a fresh vision of God and his character?。
我們怎樣可以對神的本性或者屬性有新的體會呢?。
We can do it through his word。
我們可以通過他的話語。
The Bible says that faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God。
聖經告訴我們,信心是從聽道而來的。
Our faith will be in proportion to the degree we saturate our lives with Scripture。
我們的信心的大小和聖經在我們生活裡面有多浸透的程度是成為正比的。
In his trials and distress, David trusted in God's steadfast love。
大衛的思念仇苦中,大衛是信靠神的。
But in his time of trial, he also chose to praise God in verses 5 and 6。
在第五和第六節,我們看到大衛雖然在患難中,但他仍然選擇去讚美神。
Let's read those verses one more time。
我們讀第五和第六節。
但我依靠你的慈愛,我的心因你的救恩快樂,我要向耶和華歌唱,因他用口音代我。
David began this psalm in a sob。
大衛開始詩篇的時候,他是哭泣的。
But he ends it in a song。
但是他結束的時候,他是歡音歌唱的。
He is still not out of his distress。
他仍然在他的困苦當中。
But he knows that God will be faithful and one day he will be delivered。
但是他知道神是信實的,有一天神會拯救他。
And he knows that when he is delivered, he will complete this vow of praise to God that he is making here。
當神拯救他的時候,他知道他會來到還願,來到去讚美神。
For the present time, he says, my heart rejoices in your salvation。
在這個時候,他就說,我的心因你的救恩歡呼。
He is already rejoicing in what he knows his faithful God will do for him。
他已經開始來到去歡呼,因為他知道神會來到去拯救他。
And when he is delivered, he will go to the congregation and praise God in the congregation for God's deliverance of him。
當神拯救他的時候,他會去到大會當中來到去重讚,讚美神。
Verse 6 says, I will sing to the Lord for he has been good to me。
第六節講到,我要向耶和華歌唱,因他用口音來到恩待我。
David will tell the community that God delivered him。
他會在大會裡面向會眾來到去見證神的拯救。
Even though for a time he thought that God had forgotten him。
雖然有一段時間他認為神是忘記了他。
In a sense, he is praising God already when he makes this promise to God。
從另一個角度來看,其實大會是在讚美神。
因為他已經首先來到去認定神會拯救他。
We can learn a lot from David's response to his trials and tribulations。
我們可以從大會的困境裡面,他的思念裡面來到學到很多的功課。
Our appropriate response to the life that God has given us。
and to his deliverance of us is praise。
我們從大會身上可以學習的就是。
在困境裡面我們向神來到祈禱,讚美。
For the believer, praise is a matter of life and breath。
對一個信徒來說,讚美就好像人呼吸一樣。
Believers cannot really live without praise。
我們不能夠生存如果我們不祈禱。
So in Psalm 13, God gives us a picture of David's faith being stretched。
by trials and testing that God brings into his life。
這邊13篇,神讓我們看到一個圖畫,神藉著給大衛的試煉。
幫助大衛在他的信心裡面向前邁進一步。
He is so burdened by his circumstances, he thinks God has forgotten him。
他在他自己處境裡面,他受到背負很重的重擔。
所以他以為神是忘記了他。
But he prays and God answers his prayer by giving him a fresh vision of God's steadfast love。
但是他向神祈求,祈禱的時候,神幫助他對神有一個新的體見。
If you are a believer, God is going to help you grow in your relationship with him。
如果你是一個信徒,神將會幫助你與神有一個更親密的關係。
He will do that by stretching your faith。
And he will stretch your faith by allowing you to be tested and experience suffering。
他會讓你受試煉和經歷苦難,讓你的信心向前走多一步。
This psalm is an example of how to cope when life is strained and you feel like God has forgotten you。
In the midst of your confusion and suffering, you need to do three things。
當你在迷茫中,在苦難裡面,你需要做三樣東西。
Pray to God for help。
Remember God's steadfast love。
And vow to praise God。
Let's pray together。
Heavenly Father, thank you for your faithful, steadfast love for your children。
If there is anyone here who doesn't know you personally。
We pray they would come to you today and trust in Christ。
We pray they might experience your steadfast love。
And we know one way you love us is by helping us to grow。
And by allowing us to have trials in our lives。
We pray for those who are hurting today。
Please give them a fresh vision of your steadfast love。
And strengthen their faith in you。
Also turn their prayer and praise to you。
When you deliver them, may it bring great glory to your name。
We pray in Jesus' name, Amen。
