Dear Father, we thank You that we can pray together.。
We are touched by all the love that You have shown to us.。
And because of Your love, we have confidence that our prayer You listen.。
And You not only listen, You pay attention to listen.。
You want to achieve more than even we ask, because You want us to grow.。
You want us to receive more from Your grace.。
And Your grace is abundant.。
We thank You for all the grace that You have shown to our church in these 46 years.。
And in this time, we celebrate together.。
We thank You for all the gifts that You have given to us.。
We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.。
So today is our church's 46th anniversary.。
When I think about it, it is the time we celebrate our church having 46 years of history.。
我們來信徒我們教會擁有40年的歷史的日子。
Then in order to prepare this message, I pray and ask God what You want me to deliver.。
當我禱告並準備神要我今天要分享的東西的時候。
Thinking about we have 46 years of history.。
And a question came into my mind, what is history?。
Of course, if you ask different people, they have different answer for this question.。
When I read the Hebrew chapter 11, I realized the author of Hebrew, he have a very distinctive way of seeing history.。
我看到希伯來書的作者,他有一種很特別的看法。
For him, he don't see history as a bunch of stories and bunch of things that happened in the past.。
這個作者他看歷史不是一對一對的故事,以前過去的故事。
For him, history displays the cause of faith.。
對他來說,歷史就是一個信仰追求的課程。
It show to us how the people wanting in this cause and to pursuit their faith.。
I believe this is also God's way of seeing history.。
Brother and sister, do you know that God not seeing everything happen in history equally?。
God actually see something is more important than the other thing when it happens.。
For God, he see the journeys of his people seeking after him using faith is more important than any other thing in the world.。
對神來說,他看他的子民尋求他的這個旅程是比其他事情發生更重要。
Even more important than some world changing event.。
比世界發生的大事更重要。
I can give you an example, for example in 701 BC time, there was a world changing event actually happened.。
這好像在主前701年,在我們世界有一個很大的事情發生。
At that time, the super power of the world is Assyrian.。
那個時候在這個世界最大的最強的就是亞述。
And in 7 and 1 year BC, the Assyrian army march into the capital of Israel, Jerusalem.。
這個雅俗軍隊,他進到以色列的首都。
And the world changing event is the Assyrian army defeated.。
這是改變世界的那個事情,就是那個強大的雅俗軍隊可以打敗。
This is a world shaking event because nobody will think that the Assyrian will be defeated.。
這是很大的事情,很大的新聞,因爲這個是沒有人想到這個是強的國家可以給打敗的。
Think about today, if you think the American army maybe go to war with a very small island and then it defeated.。
It is a world shaking event.。
這好像想象現在在美國一個強大的國家去打一個小島的國家的時候給打敗了。
這是很大很大的新聞。
But in the Bible, it only use two verses to say that God's angel defeated the Assyrian army.。
但是在聖經上面,只有用兩節的經文來說這個事情。
就是說,上帝的天使擊敗了雅俗軍隊。
Instead, it used almost two full chapters in Isaiah 36-37 to describe how King Hezekiah pray and sought after God。
相反,他用了兩章來描述西西加王在以沙雅書36-37章是他是怎麼禱告羣求神。
Because things that happen do not have value in themselves.。
It has value because God give value to them.。
God value the people who have faith and seek after Him.。
In Hebrew, chapter 11, first one and two is that。
Now faith is the certainty of things hopeful, a proof of things not seen。
For by it, the people of the old gain approval.。
西伯來書11章第1到第2節說。
信這是所望之事的確實,在未見之事的確據。
因爲他得到了古人的認可。
In Hebrew, chapter 11, the author using the whole chapter to recant the history again in the light of the people of faith。
在西伯來書第11章,這個作者以信徒的角度來重新再描述這一段的歷史。
他明白這個歷史不是過去一段一段的故事。
Yeah, because he understood that the history is not just a bunch of past story。
But it shows us the cause of faithful and how they seek after God。
他知道這個歷史不單單是一對的故事嘛。
他就是顯現在我們衆臣的信徒在成長神的過程。
And it also show how God approve His people because of their faith。
也告訴我們神怎麼加許祂的指名。
他們有信心的尋找祂。
Because of faith that God show His approval to His people。
因爲信仰神就認可祂的指名。
In other words, the life of faith actually drew God's attention。
And won God's faith in all the things happen in history。
Because of that people of faith that God's eyes keep on paying attention to them。
那就是說他們的信仰的生活就引起了神的關注,也贏得神的喜悅。
Then you may ask, what is the substance of faith?。
那你就問,信仰這個東西是什麼了?。
信心是什麼?。
In Hebrew 11 verse 6, it said that without faith, it is impossible to please Him。
For one who comes to God must believe that He exists。
And that He proves to be the one who reward those who seek Him。
希伯來書11章第六節,人非有信就不能得到神的喜悅。
因爲到神面前來的人必須信有神,且信祂賞賜拿羣醜祂的人。
Simply put, a person only believe that God exists is not enough, it is not faith。
And faith include his active seeking of God's reward。
簡單就說,這是有信仰的人不單單要相信神是存在的。
還有他們需要積極地尋求神的獎賞。
Seeking after God's reward, that's the key here。
尋求神的獎賞,就是這個斷件。
That's why in the whole chapter of Hebrew 11, it shows us each hero of faith, how they put all in in order to seek God's reward。
所以在希伯來書第十一章裏面,他們就跟我們,就說每一個信仰的英雄,他們怎麼,他們全力去尋求神的獎賞。
I can give you several examples, for example, Abel, by faith he offer his best sacrifice which cost his life。
就好像阿伯他獻上他最好的,他捧着他的信心,他獻上最好的,然後他,倒是他獻上了他的生命。
Also by faith, Noah work against the whole opinion of the world in order to build the act。
就好像諾亞他憑着信心,他不理世界的人的看法,他的眼光,他就建造那個方舟。
And also by faith, Abraham obey God's calling to the foreign land, even though he don't know where is it and what place he will be。
但是他聽神的命令,他就去他其他的國家。
也好像莫斯他捧着信心,他放棄了他有特權的皇子的生活,他選擇跟神的子民,他一同受苦。
They put all in, they put all in, in order to seek the reward from God。
Faith is the guide to the people to know how to seek after God for His reward。
in order that they live their comfort zone, they choose suffering, they put their life in, that's for seeking God's reward。
信心引導一個人,他尋求神的獎賞,他離開自己的宿舍村,也要爲了是要得到神的獎賞。
And you know, sometimes we see history is just things happen, but actually it's not。
Time flies, things happen, they do not have value in themselves, just for celebration。
時間過了,事情發生了,他們本身沒有什麼有什麼幸福的價值。
And choose God over the world, and act in order to get His reward, that has value in God's eyes, and that is the reason we celebrate。
One more reason we celebrate today。
We see in the Hebrew chapter 11, when we seek diligently after God's reward, we become a part of this faith community。
宗西保羅書第11章最後兩節,39到40節裏面也有提到,我們就憑着那個信心來尋求神的獎賞的時候,我們就會成爲那個信心的團體。
Even though we may feel we are inadequate, we are not abundance, but we can still expect great things from God。
我們現在可能覺得自己不夠好,但是我們也可以期待從神那邊做到一些很偉大的事情。
In the conclusion of the chapter 11 of Hebrew, it has two verses that are really important and we should pay attention。
What was promised, because God has provided something better for us, so that apart from us, they would not be made perfect。
There is something better, there is something better here。
There is something better that God promised to his faithful people。
All those in the past, they are heroes of faith, but they did not get it yet。
Why? Because God asked them to wait, God also is waiting, waiting for what? Waiting for us。
Waiting for us to join them, join the team, so that we can be something better together, to get God's reward。
After the whole team of faithfully assembly, then God's promise will be fulfilled perfectly。
When we read the chapter of Hebrew 11, there are a lot of hero stories, faithful hero stories。
But I think that not many of us are very well versed in the world of the Bible, that's why we don't feel that impact。
Let me, maybe I use a movie to elaborate a little bitWhen I watch the movie Avenger, I know that many of you have watched the movie Avenger。
It's a superhero movie, maybe younger people know it better than other people。
Every main character have their own struggle at the first part of the movieThey have their own struggle, they have their own ego, they have their own challenges。
But the turning point of the movie that when you remember that scene, it's very excited, the whole team come together。
And they say Avenger assemblyThat's the exact thing that tells the story in the Hebrew 11。
It is not just fantasy, superhero story, it is the same assembly, the same team we have to join。
You may have your own struggle, I have my own struggle。
But through faith, we overcome it and assemble。
And we put all in to seek that reward。
That's the reason we celebrate。
Brother and sister, let us remember we are part of this faithful community。
If we are not ready, all other people are waiting, even God is waiting。
Let us seek God and seek his reward with actions。
May God's name be glorified。
Amen。
