Beloved Pastor, and Pastors amongst us, and sisters and brothers, God bless you all.。
大兄姊妹各位的神賜福給你。
Let's bow our heads and pray together.。
讓我們一起祈禱。
Lord, we give you thanks for this time that you have made for us.。
我們向你獻上感恩,有這個時間。
We want to hear your voice.。
我們盼望聽到你自己的聲音。
We ask that you grant us a listening ear and obedient heart.。
我求你給到我們一雙聆聽的耳朵和一個順服的心。
In Jesus' name we pray.。
奉主耶穌的聖名去祈求。
Amen。
Again, it's a delight to be coming to this familiar place.。
來到這個很相熟的地方實在是很高興。
Many years ago, a very well-intentioned and elderly sisters。
came to me and posed a question to my throat.。
很多年前,有一個很有善意的年老姊妹問了我一個問題。
He said, "Dennis, you have preached many sermons on love."。
Dennis,你講過很多有關愛的講道,對不對?。
May I ask you a very simple question?。
我想問一個很簡單的問題。
Is your life an interpretation of love?。
你的生命是否一個愛的詮釋呢?。
She didn't mean to be mean to me.。
She's a very loving sister and mother.。
她是一個很有愛的媽媽,是一個很有愛的姊妹。
她不是特別挑剔我的。
Yes,挑剔我, beautiful translation.。
She came to me and asked, "Is your life an interpretation of love?"。
她就來到我那裡問,究竟你的生命本身是否一個愛的詮釋呢?。
Is your life an illustration of love?。
你的生命是否一個愛的例子呢?。
Is your life a concrete example of love?。
你的生命有沒有表彰到愛呢?。
When people look at you, there is no speculations, no suspicions.。
Crystal clear. This person, this person, that person is an interpretation of love.。
是否每個人走過來看,沒有任何的猜測,沒有任何的懷疑,就很清楚在你的生命看到究竟真愛是甚麼?。
You see, it's so easy to sing love song.。
其實唱一首愛情的歌都很容易。
It's very easy to preach a sermon on love.。
或者講有愛的講道都不是很難。
Yes, I have preached many sermons on love.。
我講過愛的講道有很多的了。
But I thought a lot about her questions, is your life an interpretation of love?。
但是我真是想她的問題想了很久,究竟我的生命是否一個愛的詮釋呢?。
You see, love is better, some people put it this way, love is better felt than tell.。
有人會這樣說,愛是更好被感受而不是被言說。
And love is better interpreted than instructed.。
And love is better demonstrated than defined.。
You see, Saint Paul is a giant of faith.。
A mighty thinker that he was.。
He was not a man with nothing between the ears.。
對,他很聰明,他的腦袋很聰明。。
A mighty thinker,不是腦袋空空的。。
And Paul not only talked about love, 1 Corinthians 13,。
but here he illustrated love in the most vivid way, in the way he treated his co-worker.。
但當我們看到他怎樣去對待他的同工的時候,我們就真真正正看到他怎樣展示出愛。。
The historical context of the book,。
There are three major characters, Philemon, the master of Anasimus,。
And Anasimus is the runaway slave.。
And Saint Paul, the common pastor or common mentor.。
You see, Anasimus was guilty of stealing from his master Philemon.。
So he was a runaway slave.。
And through the ministry of Saint Paul, his life was deeply changed and became a Christian.。
According to Roman law, slaves must be returned to their masters.。
So he was about to send him back to Philemon.。
And there he wrote this beautiful letter to Philemon.。
It's a very small letter, but filled with great affections and love.。
And today is Mother's Day, let me share with you how you and I could be an interpreter of love.。
Yes, three point sermon.。
Three point, point number one.。
Love is interpreted not in commanding, but in respecting each other.。
You see, Paul, an older man, a godly man, a man filled with authority.。
You see, a godly man, he had the authority to command Philemon to receive back Anasimus.。
Instead, he wrote a letter not commanding him what he should do, but what? Appealing on the basis of love.。
You see, not commanding what he should do, not threatening, not warning, not imposing, not demanding what Philemon ought to do with the runaway slaves.。
And yet, he wrote the letter appealing on the basis of love.。
In verse number nine, Paul said, "I appeal to you on the basis of love."。
You see, not on the basis of authority which he possessed, but now he appealed on the basis of love.。
You see, "I appeal for my spiritual son, Anasimus."。
You see, here I learned something.。
Did you see how sensitive that Paul was towards his colleague?。
He merely made a humble request on behalf of the runaway slave.。
And he left the final decision to Philemon himself.。
Is it not love truly manifest and interpreted?。
He showed respect to him.You see, authority is very important to leadership.。
We, company presidents, pastors, parents, we are all given authority to rule.You see, but authority must be upheld in decency.。
It must be held in modesty.。
And also, it must be exercised with love and affection.。
Because authority in itself is not evil, but it can become evil because of the abuse and the misuse of it.。
And there are people who abuse the authority.。
There are people who have to command because they simply cannot trust others.。
There are people who demand because they think they are indispensable.。
They think that they are irreplaceable.。
And therefore, they can say anything they want without considering the feelings of others into account.。
And others enjoy and command because they are so afraid of losing power and losing control.。
You see, let me apply it to the family context.。
You see, a highly chauvinistic husband, after one week of marriage, he came to the pastor who officiated the wedding.。
And he said, "Pastor, last week your sermon was so good."。
You said when two of us got married, the two became one.。
But pastor, you never told me which one.。
Do you understand what he is saying?。
Is it my body throw her until death do us part?。
Is it her body join with me so that she could nag, nag, nag, nag until death do us part?。
You see, this is premarital counseling for many of young people, but post-marital counseling.。
You see, some of you men, you try and command your wife and see what will happen.。
Some of you women, you try and order your husband around, I can guarantee you your better half will become the bitter half.。
The first two years of my marriage was hellish.。
Why? Because we try to change each other.。
I try to change her into my likeness.。
And she try to change me into her likeness.。
But both of us are unlike Christ.。
How can you change your spouse into your likeness when you have no Christ likeness?。
You see, in Chinese, he wants to change me into his likeness.。
He wants to change me into his likeness.。
She wants to change me, I want to change her.。
But we are not the same.I don't know what she said.。
You don't like each other.。
No, no, no, no, no, no.。
就是不像.。
她選我,像她,但她自己都不像.。
Oh, she wants me to look like her, but she doesn't look like Christ.。
The problem is we try to change each other, you can change each other unless you are Christ-like.。
And then later on, God convicted both of us.。
You see, and cause us to kneel before God and repent.。
And we learn to respect each other and treat one another as God's gift.。
You see, it is not my job to change my spouse.。
It is God's job.。
We kneel before God and asking God to change us for the sake of another, for the sake of her.。
You see, brothers and sisters, we must learn to let go of our self-centeredness.。
We must learn to respect others.。
We often say respect must be earned.。
But may I add, respect must be learned.。
See, respect must be learned and in the process of learning, you earn it.。
We can only learn respect by seeking to esteem others above ourselves.。
You see, Paul learned to be respectful towards Philemon.。
You see, in verse 14, he said, "I did not want to do anything without your consent."。
So that any favor you do will be spontaneous and not forced.。
So we must learn, learn. In the process of learning, we gain the respect.。
You see, one of the great philosophers by the name of Cheeky Chesterton once made a very, very catching phrase.。
He said, "Why do angels fly?。
Why do angels fly and then fly higher and freer and joyfully?"。
Oh, his answer was brilliant. "Why do angels fly? Because they take themselves lightly."。
You see, our problem is we take ourselves too weightily. We put too much weight on ourselves.。
Therefore, we cannot fly higher. We become clumsier than ever.。
You see, we put too much weight on ourselves. We have to be on diet.。
I used to put a lot of weight on myself. I put too much weight on myself. And then later on, I was on diet.。
當我們把自己的位置放得很重很重要的時候,我們就會很亂七八糟。。
為什麼要看自己這麼重?有意思嗎?有意思嗎?。
You see, we must learn not to put too much weight on ourselves.。
I have been on diet. Therefore, I look much better than before.。
I can be natural and free and be myself. See, translation is very good.。
人家說三自教會,我也是三自。自然,自由,自在。。
I can be natural. I can be free. I can be without pretense.。
Second point, love is interpreted not in depreciating others but making others useful.。
To encourage others so that others may be built up.。
I was captured by verse number 11. Formally, oneness was useless but now he has become both useful to me and to you and to me.。
You see, what a sharp contrast between what formerly but now.。
What a transformation from being useless to being useful.。
It takes a long time to make somebody useful.。
It takes a lot of patience and strenuous activities and time to make others stand tall.。
You see, tradition said Paul had made this person into a bishop.。
You see, Onesimus later became an influential bishop of Asia Minor Church.。
So brothers and sisters, why are you still here?。
Is it because of the efforts of mothers and mentors and pastors?。
Today is Mother's Day. I must talk about my mom.。
Are you ready to hear?。
My mom said whenever you miss me, you put on a tie, either a pink tie or a tie with pink color on it.。
Then the tie brings the two hearts together.。
Because of this tie, heaven and earth are breached.。
My mother used to advise me this.。
Son, if you want a lot of followers, you have a lot of pupils on earth.。
You see, if you want to have a lot of followers, I pray that God will give you two things.。
May God give you a penetrating eye and a compassionate heart.。
With the two things combined, you would be a very effective agent of love.。
Your eyes are beautiful, but good for nothing.You are so blind to the people's struggle.。
You see, you are blind to the disappointments that people feel.。
Sometimes your hearts do not have feeling towards those people who fail.。
I ask God daily that God will give you a penetrating eye.。
You see, to see what goes on inside the heart of others.。
And to ask God for a heart that feels the hurt of others.。
And only then you will be the best illustration of love.。
You see, how do you develop a penetrating eye?。
The song that you just sing, the song, I love to hear your voice.。
In order to have a penetrating eye, you must hear the word of God, God's voice.。
But also you must listen to the voices of godly leaders and mentors above you.。
I was thankful for my mother.。
You see, because of her, I was no longer the same.。
You see, I am indebted to my mother.。
I am sure you have a lot of story to tell about your mother.。
You see, I am indebted to her in terms of my beauty.。
My mother give it to me.。
So any beauty that I have, I give it back to my mother.。
And any virtue that I possess, I give it back to my mother.。
Not just the beauty, but also virtues.。
I give it back to my mother.。
You see, credit be given to my mother who labor to make me beautiful and make me virtuous.。
Glory be to God.。
Glory be to God, credit be given to my mother who make me beautiful, make me virtuous.。
But you must not forget the third point.。
Labor be given to me.。
Labor, hard work, hard work.。
要下功夫。。
功勞是給我爸,功夫是給我自己。。
功勞就給我媽媽。。
I have made the hard effort.。
Is that right?。
You have to do something, right?。
And you appreciate your mom.。
Because God has given her to you.。
So I am continuing learning and growing in being penetrating in my eyes, compassionate in my heart.。
So may God restore our sight and inflame our hearts.。
The third point.。
Love is interpreted not in being calculative, but being magnanimous, being generous.。
You see, there are two kinds of people.。
Big people and little people.。
Little people have little heart.。
Little people have little heart.。
Big people have big heart.。
Little people have little heart.。
The heart is so small that it contains nobody but himself.。
And such a person has very little influence.。
Because he can't see anything but himself.。
But big people have big heart.。
Or a generosity of spirit.。
You see, the English word magnanimity, magnanimity of heart.。
The heart big enough to take in the mistakes of others.。
And it could conclude the past failures of others.。
The differences in personality.。
You see, Paul could have calculated.。
He could ask himself how can I associate with somebody like Onesimus who had a criminal record.。
You see, that will be a threat to my image as the leader.。
It could be a very, very big inconvenience to the development of my image as the leader.。
You see, Paul manifests a big heart.。
You see, in verse number 12, did you see how he addressed Onesimus, the criminal? My very heart.。
You see,我的心上人,我的心肛.。
In verse 16, he regarded him better than a slave.。
And he is very dear to me, dearer, even dearer to you, both as a partner, as a brother in Christ.。
他又繼續講,佢係我親愛嘅,佢亦都係你親愛嘅。佢係我哋嘅同伴,佢係我哋嘅弟兄。。
And in verse 18, he said, if he owed you anything, charge it to me.。
喺第十八節,佢話,如果佢有乜嘢規範你嘅,欠你啲乜嘢嘅,你就算喺我嘅頭上啦。。
You see, the word "charge" has to do with the gospel of justification.。
其實個個"charge"呢個字係代表"算在"或者"充當"係講一個清義嘅複音。。
"規制"。
或者"規" -- to charge.。
You see, "charge" has -- so Augustine spoke about the joyousest change between Christ's righteousness and our sin.。
阿古斯丁咁樣講,佢話喺基督嘅義同埋我哋中間有個喜樂嘅交換。。
We do not have our own righteousness to stand before God.。
We are absolutely bankrupt.。
But Christ's righteousness is given to us.。
By His righteousness, I am right with God.。
You see, the righteousness is credited, it's reckoned, it's charged into me.。
So that by His righteousness, we are made right with God.。
See, Onesimus was indebted to his master and cannot pay back.。
He has no money in his bank to pay back the master.。
So Paul literally paid in order to purchase his freedom.。
Is that not the gospel?。
We as sinners, we are in debt.。
We have nothing in our bank account to pay anything.。
Christ stepped in to pay the debt of sin so that we may be set free.。
大主耶穌基督就落到嚟世間上面,站喺上帝同人中間,為我哋還清一切。。
So having been touched by the generosity of the gospel, now he applied in the way he dealt with this runaway slave.。
當保羅自己親自領受過,親自被福音呢個義去觸動過嘅時候,。
佢就將喺亞利西姆身上做返同一件事。。
佢就話將佢嘅債算喺我嘅頭上。。
我會還嘅。。
So he is given back, he is given the total freedom back to the Philemon's household.。
所以佢將呢個自由就畀返佢嘅家嗰度。。
Did you experience the gospel?。
Have you been forgiven?。
And because we are forgiven, we ought to be forgiving.。
因為我哋係被寬恕,被原諒,我哋都需要去原諒同埋去寬恕別人。。
Because we are God's beloved creatures, we must be most loving of all creatures.。
因為我哋係神自己嘅創造物,我哋有佢嘅愛,我哋必須用愛。。
我們是被愛的。。
And we become the beloved people of God.。
You see,我們變成可愛嘅人。。
Cute people, so therefore we need to be cute towards others.。
And you don't curse people, you become cute towards others.。
你唔係去貶低人,唔係去話人,但係我哋對人係好可愛嘅。。
See, in this Mother's Day, I know there are many mixed feelings amongst mothers and amongst those people who are not mothers.。
或者喺個母親節,可能大家有唔同嘅感受。。
We may have differences amongst each one of us, amongst us in our family.。
或者我哋, even 喺個家庭入面,我哋會有好多嘅唔同。。
We may have misunderstanding.。
讓我哋一齊學習點樣將呢啲誤解誤會擺開。。
And learn to forgive others.。
我哋一齊去學習點樣去寬恕別人。。
And let us not be calculative.。
冇去計較。。
Manifest a magnanimous heart to each other.。
去展示出一個咁偉大嘅愛究竟係點樣。。
And you may say to yourself, "I cannot forgive."。
If that's the case, let me share with you the words of Charles Burton.。
He said, "Let us go to the cross."。
Let us go to the cross and learn how we are forgiven.。
And let us stay there, linger, linger, stay there long enough。
so that you know how you may forgive others.。
Or we need to go beneath the cross and stay there a bit longer.。
And from there you will have a bigness of heart.。
Because the bigness of heart flows from the heart of God,。
from those who are touched by the big and omnipotent, almighty love of God.。
Let us pray.。
And give to each one of us the grace of forgiveness.。
In Jesus name we pray.。
Amen.。
