首先我要在此感謝朱牧師和譚牧師,我的老朋友,在此服侍大家。。
It is with great joy to know that God is in our midst in spite of all our circumstances.。
But we must learn to look at our circumstances correctly.。
In one of the art galleries in London, there is an entire floor dedicated to Renaissance art.。
The Italian masterpieces were there.One day there was a professor of art who went to visit this museum and look at the art pieces.。
He is the professor of the history of art in Boston University.。
The professor Robert Cummings came to this piece called "The Virgin and Child" by Lippi.。
Lippi is a 15th century Italian artist and the professor can see the masterpieces of the art stroke and the colors.。
But somehow something is missing in this painting.。
But he can't tell what is missing in this painting.。
Suddenly the thought struck him.。
What if this painting wasn't commissioned for an art gallery but in a prayer room?。
And unlike a gallery where you stand to examine the art, in the prayer room you will be kneeling.。
So professor Cummings did something he has never done before in a public gallery, he knelt before the art painting.。
When he kneeled and looked up, everything is in perfect perspective and proportion.。
The principle is our posture determines our perspective.。
For things are not always what they seem.。
Appearances can be deceiving.。
The opposite of mere appearances is truth.。
Now there are two ways to view truth.The first is truth as content, propositions and principles.。
The second is to look at truth as connection.。
It is a connection to God and to reality.。
We must connect with reality.。
And we must see God in the reality of our life and experiences.。
Because it will help us get our perspective correct.。
And one of the realities we must connect with is the reality of the wilderness experiences in our lives.。
I want to talk to you about wilderness and warfare.Because all of us go through a spiritual wilderness.。
It is represented by the dark and difficult circumstances of our lives.。
But the Word of God tells us in Isaiah 40 verse 3, a voice cries out, "In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord."。
上帝的說話在二塞亞書第四十章三節告訴我們,。
曠野裡有聲音說,預備耶和華的道路。。
How do we prepare the way for the Lord?。
我們如何預備耶和華的道路呢?。
By preparing our hearts to look up to Him and trust Him.。
預備耶和華的道路就是透過預備我們的心去看耶和華,去相信祂。。
You see, discipleship is not a mere program.。
門徒訓練不是一個程序。。
Discipleship is a way of life.。
門徒訓練是一個生活的方式。。
So everywhere in the world, I tell them the IDMC conference is not just how to do church.。
It's a way of life.。
所以無論去到哪裏,我舉行這個約爾門訓練研習會,我都會告訴弟兄姊妹聽,。
不是怎樣去搞教會,辦教會,而是一個生活方式。。
Because discipleship is a journey.。
因為門徒生活是一個旅程。。
And very often, this journey takes us through the wilderness.。
而這個旅程是一定會帶我們進入曠野。。
When I visited Israel, there was a Christian tour guide who took us around.。
有一次我去巡遊聖地,一個基督徒的響導就帶著我們。。
Then the bus passed through a wilderness.。
巴士就經過曠野。。
And the tour guide says, "Ah, the wilderness is a special place."。
It's a place of emptiness, but it's a place where God speaks.。
因為在這個地方裏面,上帝向人說話。。
Because in the space of silence, God speaks.。
在很靜的地方裏面,上帝向人說話。。
Blippically, the journey from Egypt to the Promised Land was through the wilderness.。
在聖經裏面,由埃及去到英許之地中間是一個曠野。。
So we ask the question, "Why the wilderness?"。
那我們就問個問題,為什麼要經過曠野呢?。
In the Blippical narrative, the 12 spies were sent out to spy the land for 40 days.。
在聖經的技術裏面,以色列人就差遣了12個探子去觀察,了解這個英許之地。。
Caleb and Joshua brought forth a report of faith, a good report.。
約書亞和加納其中這兩個探子就是帶來憑著信心而有的一個好的報告。。
Oh, but the other 10 spies gave a bad report because of doubt and unbelief.。
其他那10個就因為他們不相信和懷疑,他們就給一個壞的報告。。
The sad thing was the people of God did not believe Joshua and Caleb.。
They believed the 10 spies and they walked in their unbelief.。
很可悲的是,以色列人不聽加納和約書亞的報告,接受了那10個不信和懷疑的人的壞報告。。
And the people cried out in fear and said, "We'd rather go back to Egypt."。
那些以色列人就大聲說,我們寧願回去埃及。。
There were giants in the land.。
說那個英許之地下有巨人的。God told them for every day in the spying of the land, they will have one year in the wilderness.。
那上帝就和他們說,每一天他們來看這個英許之地,他們就要在曠野裡面留一年。。
So for 40 days, because of their unbelief, they would spend 40 years in the wilderness.。
因為他們不信,所以40天來去探索這個地,換來的就是他們40年要在曠野裡面。。
The question I ask is, why didn't God send them back to Egypt?。
Why send them into the wilderness?。
那我們就問,為什麼上帝不差他們回去埃及,而是讓他們在曠野裡面呢?。
When they were unbelieving, why didn't God say, "Poof, go back to Egypt."。
那他們都不信了,那就帶他們回去埃及。。
There are two reasons, one is God's promise and the other is God's purpose.。
有兩個原因,一個就是上帝的承諾,另外一個就是上帝的目的。。
The first is because of God's promise to Abraham.。
第一個原因就是上帝答應過阿巴拉罕。。
God promised Abraham, your people will have a land.。
他答應阿巴拉罕,你的子民會有一個地方。。
They are passing through the wilderness to the promised land.。
經過曠野,就會進入應許之地。。
If every time for their unbelief, God sends them back to Egypt, they will never get out of Egypt.。
如果每一次他們不相信,就送他們回去埃及,他們永遠都不會離開埃及。。
They will be delivered out of Egypt, walk around in unbelief, poof, they go back to Egypt.。
他們離開埃及,去到曠野,又不相信,又回到埃及。。
But God promised Abraham, they will have a promised land.。
因為上帝承諾過阿巴拉罕,他們有一個應許之地。。
The second reason why God didn't send them back to Egypt was because of God's purpose.。
第二個原因,他們沒有回去埃及,因為上帝有這個目的。。
God has a purpose for the wilderness to develop their faith.。
是要透過曠野去發展他們的信心。。
So the wilderness wasn't just a place of punishment, it was a place of faith development.。
所以曠野不單止是一個懲罰他們的地方,也是一個建立他們信心的地方。。
It was in the wilderness that faith was being sanctified.。
是在這個曠野裏面,他們的信心得到聖化。。
You see, salvation is God getting us out of the world, but sanctification, God is getting the world out of us.。
救贖就是上帝帶我們離開這個世界,而聖化就是將世界從我們的生命裏面拿走。。
So the wilderness is not a destination, it's a transit point.。
所以曠野並不是一個目的地,曠野只不過是一個中途站而已。。
In other words, God leads us to the wilderness, He will lead us through the wilderness.。
所以上帝並不是帶我們去曠野,而是經過曠野。。
Please understand, God doesn't want us to live in the wilderness, He wants us to learn from the wilderness.。
所以上帝並不是要我們活在曠野裏面,上帝是要我們在曠野裏面有所學習。。
But there is good news and there is bad news in the wilderness.。
所以在曠野裏面有壞消息亦都有好消息。。
Let me first explore the bad news with you.。
先講壞消息。。
The bad news is that we can lose our bearing in the wilderness.。
第一個壞消息就是在曠野裏面我們可以迷失方向。。
We can get confused and lost in the wilderness.。
我們在曠野裏面因為好混亂,所以我們就不知道去哪裏。。
Because the wilderness is a place of confusion and desperation.。
曠野就是混亂及很淒慘的地方。。
And in the wilderness, it's easy to get lost.。
在曠野裏面真的很容易迷路。。
We don't know what direction to take.。
我們都不知道究竟哪一個方向才是對的。。
The circumstances confuse us.。
各個環境令我們混亂。。
We ask the question, why me? Why this? Why now?。
我們就問這個問題,為什麼是這樣的?為什麼現在是這樣的?為什麼我是這樣的呢?。
I was once lost in Africa.。
有一次我從非洲迷路。。
I was going up from the southern part to Johannesburg.。
有一次我從非洲的南邊回到約翰尼斯堡。。
And I didn't realize that when winter comes, the sun sets very early.。
我又不是很了解到冬季的太陽落山落得很快。。
So suddenly, I found myself in the late afternoon driving in the darkness.。
很快,本來還沒到黃昏就已經黑了。。
I look in the rear view mirror, everything is dark.。
In front of the lamp, there is no cars around.。
我望到後鏡,後面是黑漆漆的,前面也是黑漆漆的。。
There is no road lights, there is no road sign.。
沒有街燈,也沒有路標。。
Only four of us in the car, my wife, myself and the missionary couple behind.。
我們現在的車裡面四個人,我和我太太,後面的就是孫教士夫婦。。
We were completely lost in the wilderness.。
我們真的是絕對迷路。。
And miles and miles as I drive along, I am not sure am I in the right direction in the darkness.。
一路這樣駛下去,我都不知道究竟我行駛的方向是否正確。。
There was no cars around, just one solitary car for miles and miles and miles in the darkness.。
周圍都沒有車,只是我們一輛車,然後我一路這樣駛下去,都是黑漆漆的。。
I was driving on hoping for some road signs, but there was none.。
我一路行的時候,我一路等著看看有沒有路牌,但是原來沒有的。。
If you were me, what would you do?。
如果你是我,你會怎樣?。
There is no GPS, there is no signal, everything is just vastness and lostness.。
沒有導航,也沒有訊號,就是一片黑漆漆。。
I finally have to stop the car.。
最後我就停了車。。
And I look up at the night sky.。
我然後望著晚上的星空。。
I was looking at the stars to find a sense of direction.。
我望上面的星星,我嘗試去找一些方向。。
I found the Southern Cross.。
我就找到南方的十字架。。
And from the Southern Cross, the opposite is towards the North.。
南方的十字架的相反方向就是北。。
So I found where the North is, and I drove towards the North and found Johannesburg.。
我就向著北方繼續這樣駛,結果我就找到約翰尼斯堡。。
That day, I learned an important spiritual lesson.。
那一天,我學到一個屬靈的功課。。
When you are lost, look up.。
你迷失了方向,你就要向上望。。
In the wilderness, prepare the way for the Lord. Look up.。
在曠野裏面,你要預備夜禍的道路,就是你要望上面。。
Because it's easy to lose our bearings in the wilderness.。
因為在曠野裏面,很容易就迷失了方向。。
The second news, we can lose our confidence in the wilderness.。
第二個壞消息就是,我們在曠野裏面很容易就失去了把握,失去了信心。。
Because when we lose our bearings, we get disoriented.。
因為我們失去了方向,我們就不知道究竟現在在哪裏。。
And because we don't know how to proceed, we lose our sense of confidence.。
當我們都不知道下一步是怎樣的時候,我們就失去了把握。。
The third bad news is that when I drove on and on, my confidence became less and less.。
就是好像在非洲那裏,一路駕駛就越來越沒有把握。。
The third bad news is that as we lose our bearing and confidence, we tend to wander in the wilderness.。
而第三個壞消息就是,我們失去了方向,又失去了信心,把握的時候,我們就開始在那裏轉圈轉圈。。
Because the wilderness can be complex and confusing.。
因為曠野真的很複雜,令人很混亂。。
In our life, the difficult circumstances can be complex and confusing.。
在我們的生命裏面,有很多事情是很複雜,令我們很混亂。。
Some have lost their job or they are retrenched.。
有一些人沒有了工作,結果就困在那裏。。
Some face financial crisis or health concerns.。
有些人面對經濟的問題,有些人面對健康的問題。。
Some have family problems, marriage problems or children problems.。
有一些人面對家庭關係的問題,婚姻的問題和兒女的問題。。
There are all kinds of things that come at us in our wilderness.。
在曠野裏面,不同的東西就湧過來。。
And the scary thing is we can lose our sense of perspective.。
令人驚懼的就是我們很容易失去了正確的視野。。
And as a result, the four bad news is wilderness wondering where is us.。
第四個壞的消息就是曠野令我們疲乏不堪。。
We don't quite understand what is happening and why.。
我們不知道究竟發生了什麼和為了什麼發生。。
We are trying to make sense of what is happening in our circumstances and we get more confused or more discouraged.。
越是想了解什麼發生,我們就越是混亂,我們就越是沮喪。。
And the fifth bad news is the wilderness is a battleground.。
第五個壞消息就是這個曠野其實是一個戰場。。
Not many know the wilderness is not a playground.。
每個人都知道曠野不是遊樂場。但是我們很多時候忘記曠野其實是一個戰場。。
Because Satan leverages the wilderness to confuse and create doubt in our soul.。
因為撒旦是利用這個曠野來製造懷疑和不順。。
And our wilderness become a battleground, but it's a different kind of battleground.。
曠野是一個戰場,但是是一個另類的戰場。。
Because there are no armies or chariots on the outside.。
因為外面你看不到坦克車和火炮。。
The battle is within.。
這個戰場在裏面。。
The battle is our doubts and our fears, our anxieties.。
這個是我們內心的恐懼、焦慮、不安。。
The inner battle that has become a war zone inside.。
這個是裏面那個戰場令到我們很辛苦。。
And our foundation for our faith from the Word of God is shifted.。
我們信心的基礎就會進入,我們的根基就會進入詭辯。。
Let me share with you what I found to be the greatest problem in discipleship today.。
讓我和大家分享,今天門徒的生活最大的挑戰是什麼?。
The biggest challenge is we shift our foundation from the Word of God.。
今天最大的挑戰就是我們轉移我們信仰的基礎,離開上帝的說話。。
That doesn't just mean we don't know God's Word.。
不是說我們不認識上帝的說話。。
We know the Word of God is important.。
我們知道上帝的說話重要。。
We know it should be the foundation of our faith.。
我們知道上帝的說話是我們信仰的基礎。。
So we must have a theological anchor and a biblical foundation.。
我們需要一個神學的基礎,和我們按照聖經的鬧。。
And the Bible will give us a sound biblical worldview.。
上帝的說話,這個聖經就給我們一個合乎聖經的世界觀。。
To understand God and His unchanging purposes by which He works in our life.。
如此我們就明白上帝的意思,上帝的計劃,和在我們生命裡面的計劃。。
To have a meaningful understanding of the world and how to live in it.。
也都是了解這個世界很清楚的,知道我們應該如何在這個世界裡面生活。。
So we know the Bible is truth and it should be the foundation of our life.。
所以我們知道的聖經是真理,是我們生命的盤石。。
But here comes the problem.。
但問題來了。。
We enter into a season of wilderness.。
當我們進入曠野的季節。。
It disorientates us.。
令到我們亂了路。。
Dogs come into our minds and anxieties and worries come to our hearts.。
懷疑、憂慮各樣的困惑進入我們的生命。。
It impacts our feelings and our emotions.。
衝擊我們的感覺和情緒。。
And out of our insecurity and feelings, we make our choices.。
出於我們的感覺和不安,我們就作出一些選擇。。
Our choices based upon our feelings will bring forth our behavior.。
當日出於這些感覺、情緒而帶來的我們的選擇就帶來一些行為。。
But because it's based upon our feelings, not upon faith, we are deviated from the Word of God.。
因為我們所作出的這些選擇是出於我們的感覺而不是出於上帝的說話。。
We become like the children of Israel in the wilderness.。
They walk in unbelief.。
我們就好像以色列的子民那樣,他們在生活裏面也活出他們的不信。。
Now we have two operating systems, two core belief systems within us.。
那現在我們的生命裏面就有兩個核心的信仰系統了。。
We have the Word of God that we say is true.。
我們有一個就是上帝的說話我們知道是真理。。
But we have our own values that is formed by our own behavior based upon our feelings.。
那有另外一個就是出於我們的情緒感覺而引伸出來的行動這個系統了。。
We are to walk in faith, but we are also walking in unbelief and doubt.。
我們應該是憑信念去生活,但是實際上我們就在我們的猶疑裏面進入另外一個生命生活。。
We ought to trust God fully in faith, but we are not trusting Him fully because of our doubts.。
我們應該是存然的信靠上帝,不過因為我們的懷疑,我們就不是很順了。。
Now no computer system can work on two operating systems within one computer.。
你都知道的,沒有一個電腦可以同時有兩個操作系統運行的。。
So within the human soul, we cannot operate by two core belief systems.。
所以我們的靈魂都不能夠同時有兩個操作系統的。。
Now we have a problem.。
我們又找問題了。。
What do we do when we have the Word of God, but at the same time the wisdom of the world and the things of the world?。
現在我們又有神的說話,然後又有世界的想法和智慧。。
We have three choices.。
我們有三個選擇。。
The first is repentance. We turn from the world and our own feelings and we walk by faith in the Word of God.。
所以就是悔改,轉離我們的感覺引發的那些選擇,然後歸回上帝的說話。。
Second choice, we backslide and we turn away from God and we live our own way.。
第二個選擇就是我們決定背棄我們的信仰,離開上帝的說話,跟著我們的感受去生活。。
But the problem in the global church is many Christians choose the third choice.。
很可惜的是全球的教會的弟兄姊妹作出第三個選擇。。
They continue to live with two opposing value systems within one soul.。
他們繼續容許這個不同的相反矛盾的系統在他們的靈魂裏面作祟。。
But I just told you that the human soul cannot accommodate the two belief systems.。
我剛剛才告訴大家,人的靈魂不能夠兩個系統同時操作。。
So how do we make the third choice? How can many Christians choose to have these two within them?。
那些人怎樣去做出第三個選擇呢?。
Because they give lip service to the word of God and live however they choose.。
他們的口就是跟著上帝的說話,不過他們的心就是照著他們的感覺,這個世界所給他們的智慧來的。。
On Sunday, we come to church to worship God.。
星期一來到這個地方去敬拜上帝。。
There is one belief system in the word.。
這一個就是信靠上帝的說話。。
In the cell group, we study the scriptures that we use Christian language.。
在細胞小組裏面,團契裏面,我們就用聖經的說話。。
這一個是基督教的言語。。
But this lip service,這些是咀唇的敬拜。。
Because from Monday and every day of the week, we live according to our own worldly value system.。
只是在聚會的時間才出現的,其他的時候,我們就是照著這個世界的價值觀念、信念去做。。
When that happens, the wilderness is a battleground of two systems.。
當這個情況出現的時候,曠野就成為這兩個系統的戰場。。
Life in the flesh or life in the spirit.。
在肉體的生活,或者是在聖靈的生活。。
Grounded in the value system of the word of God or the world.。
用聖經上帝的說話來作為我們的信念的根基,。
還是這個世界的價值作為我們信念的根基。。
And in that struggle, we are really lost in the wilderness.。
當我們是這樣容許這個戰場出現的時候,我們就真的迷失了。。
But God wants to use the wilderness to strengthen our faith.。
但是上帝是要用曠野來兼顧我們的信仰的。。
Provided we are willing to prepare the way of the Lord in the wilderness.。
但是有一個條件就是我們要願意預備上帝的道路。。
And when we prepare the way of God in the wilderness, there is good news in the wilderness.。
當我們願意預備上帝的道路,在曠野裡預備的時候,我們就有一個好消息。。
The first good news is that we can experience God's presence in the wilderness.。
第一個好消息就是在曠野裡,我們可以經歷上帝同在。。
That even in the wilderness, there are seasons of refreshing.。
雖然在曠野裡這麼淒慘,我們仍然可以很新鮮地經歷生命。。
Just like in the biblical times, there was a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night to guide them in the presence of God.。
就好像在聖經的日子裡,上帝的臨在在日間的雲柱,夜間的火柱裡,去引導著以色列人。。
And when we trust God in the wilderness, the presence of God is there.。
當我們信上帝的時候,上帝的臨在就會顯然。。
The second good news is we can receive God's provision in the wilderness.。
第二個好消息就是在曠野裡,我們可以得著上帝的供應。。
Just like God provided for the children of Israel in the wilderness for 40 years.。
就好像耶和華上帝在曠野裡供應以色列的子民40年這麼久。。
When there is no water, God provided them water from the rock.。
沒有水的時候,上帝就在石頭裡供應他們水源。。
When there is no food, God provided for them manna from heaven.。
沒有食物,上帝從天降下晚拿給他們。。
In the wilderness, when we look to God and trust Him, He provides for us.。
當我們在曠野裡,我們向上仰望,上帝就供應我們。。
For God will never lead us when His grace cannot keep us.。
因為上帝永遠不會帶我們去一個地方,祂不能保護我們。。
The third good news is we can witness God's power in the wilderness.。
第三個好消息就是在曠野裡,我們可以經歷上帝的能力。。
God shows us His power when we trust Him.。
當我們相信祂的時候,上帝就顯示祂的能力。。
God shows us His power when we see His work miraculously in and through our lives.。
當我們相信祂的時候,上帝就將祂的能力在我們的生命裡展示出來,。
叫我們明白祂。。
His power is made strong in our weaknesses.。
祂的能力在我們軟弱的人的生命裡顯得明顯。。
The fourth good news is we can discover God's purpose in the wilderness.。
在曠野裡,第四個好消息就是我們可以去發現上帝的目的。。
Because God often uses the seasons of wilderness to teach us lessons which we otherwise cannot learn.。
原來上帝是要在曠野裡教我們,在其他環境裡我們學不到的功課。。
And these are the lessons that develop us as a people of faith.。
就是去發展我們成為一個有信念的子民的功課。。
Oh, but Satan attacks with his lies.。
不過,上帝的仇敵撒旦就是用謊言來攻擊我們。。
And one of the lies Satan tells us is there is no way out of your wilderness.。
其中一個謊言就是撒旦會告訴我們,你沒有領走,走不出這個曠野。。
We look at the problems, it becomes overwhelmingly big and we felt we cannot overcome the problem.。
當我們面對這個曠野,這個困難的時候,我們就感覺到實在是太山壓頂,我們沒有辦法可以勝過的。。
So we lose hope, we lose faith.。
我們沒有了盼望,所以沒有了信心。。
But yet God tells us, don't worry, you will find grace even in the wilderness.。
但是上帝告訴我們,不用擔心,雖然在曠野裏面,你都會得著恩典。。
That's what the prophet Jeremiah says in Jeremiah 31 verse 2, you will find grace in the wilderness.。
耶利米書,耶利米先知在31章裏面,他告訴我們,你會在曠野裏面找到恩寵。。
In other words, believe that God will bring you through the wilderness.。
就是相信上帝會帶你經過這個曠野。。
How then do we respond when we find ourselves in a season of wilderness, of difficult circumstances?。
當我們發現我們就是進入一個很困難,黑漆漆的一個處境的時候,我們可以怎樣回應上帝呢?。
The first thing is to realize everyone encounters a wilderness season of life.。
第一樣東西我們要去了解,去明白的就是,原來每一個人都會有這個曠野時刻。。
Some Christians wrongly think, if I am spiritual, if I walk in the center of God's will, I will never experience any difficulty or wilderness.。
有很多人就以為,錯誤地以為,我要虔誠,如果我是虔誠地去信,我就不會有這樣的曠野時刻出現了。。
That is untrue, because even Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness.。
因為這個是錯誤的,耶穌都是被聖靈引導去進入曠野。。
We just learned that God allows this season to build us up.。
我們剛剛才學到,上帝容許曠野來進入我們的生命,為著我們得到建立。。
The second response is to realize that the greatest snake in the wilderness is our murmuring and complaining.。
第二樣東西我們要去了解,去明白的就是,這個在曠野裏面最大的陷阱就是,我們生命裏面,我們內心那些的暗沉,投訴,埋怨,那些東西。。
Many Christians in the wilderness complain and grumble because of unbelief.。
很多人在曠野裏面,他們生命的曠野裏面,就有很多的投訴,很多的不滿,因為他們不相信。。
What is the opposite of the spirit of complaining?。
埋怨投訴的相反是什麼呢?。
It's the spirit of gratitude.。
就是感激。。
I tell you what I found helpful.。
我告訴大家幫到我的是什麼?。
I keep a journal of gratitude.。
我就是寫一個感激清單,一個這樣的日記。。
And in that gratitude journal, I list down all the things I am grateful for, in spite of the circumstances.。
我就是清楚地記錄每一件事,我體會到,是令到我感激的那些事情,雖然那個環境都是很惡劣。。
About two years ago, I was diagnosed with brain tumor.。
兩年前,我確診了我腦裏面有個腫瘤。。
I still have a tumor in my brain right now, because the surgeon says I rather not operate it and take it out.。
我現在仍然有個腫瘤,因為醫生說我不需要做這個手術,所以我仍然容許這個腫瘤在那裏。。
And the reason why he says I don't recommend the operation is because there will be risks.。
他不建議我做手術,因為有風險。。
And he tells me with this, it is a benign tumor, and you can still therefore travel and administer, it is all right.。
這個腫瘤都是良性的,但你現在仍然都可以周遊列國去做服事,所以你不需要做這個手術。。
He just said come every year, do an MRI, and we monitor it.。
每年來做一個檢查,然後你就可以繼續生活了。。
So in my gratitude journal, I give thanks to God, in spite of the circumstance, His wonderful blessing.。
我就在我的日記裏面寫下,上帝這樣恩待我,雖然這個都是帶來一些困難。。
But my neurosurgeon says in any case, if you have a severe headache or you are having a fainting, you must go to the hospital immediately.。
雖然是這樣,但如果你發現你自己是很頭痛,甚至你暈的時候,你要立刻去醫院。。
My answer is simple, my looking is straight to God, because my Father knows what is best.。
我的答案很簡單,我的天父在看著我,他知道什麼是最好的。。
I can choose either to complain, God, I am a servant, I am serving you, how come I have all these medical problems?。
我可以投訴,可以埋怨,上帝,我是服侍你的,我是你的僕人,為什麼會這樣?。
Or I can give thanks and say, wow, in spite of all these problems, God can still use me.。
我亦都可以感謝,雖然是這樣,我仍然是蒙上帝去使用。。
Learn to walk by gratitude.。
我們要學在生活裏面,學成為一個有感激的人。。
The third response is to realize we have a choice in the wilderness.。
第三樣我們要學習,原來在曠野裏面,我們真的可以選擇。。
The important choice in Isaiah 40 verse 3, in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord.。
這個在二賽書第四十章裏面所講的是一個很重要的選擇,就是在曠野裏面預備耶和華的道路。。
Either we walk in unbelief and worries, or we walk by faith and restedness. It is a choice.。
我們可以在這個曠野裏面,因為各樣的焦慮,懷疑,我們就進入這個困難。。
或者是用信心,放鬆的去讚美我們的主。。
So in the wilderness, I am not just looking for God's blessing to me.。
我在曠野裏面,我並不只是在等上帝怎樣去祝福我。。
I am not just looking for God's blessing through me in my ministry.。
我並不只是在等上帝怎樣使用我,透過我去祝福別人。。
Most importantly, I am looking for God's work in me.。
我最著緊的就是,在曠野裏面,我在看上帝要怎樣在我生命裏面做功夫。。
To draw me in a deeper relationship with Him.。
引導我進入一個更深的親密。。
And the fourth response is to heed the prophetic voice of God in the scriptures.。
第四個回應,就是我們要在聖經中留意上帝的聲音。。
Listen to what the prophetic voice says in Isaiah chapter 4 verse 6 onwards.。
請大家留意二賽書四十章第六節以後,先知要講的說話。。
A voice says, "Cry." And the prophet asked, "I said, 'What shall I cry?'"。
聲音說, "你喊吧。我說,我喊什麼呢?"。
And this is what it seems to say, "Cry that all flesh is grass, and all is beauty is like the flower of the field."。
你驟眼來去看,就好像你叫什麼?叫血肉之軀都是如草啊,好像野地的花。。
verse 8, "Cry out that the grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of God stands forever."。
好像第八節這樣說,草彼枯乾,花彼雕著,唯有以我們的神的話,永遠立定。。
So listen to what this passage says. There is a spirit of the voice of the spirit says, "Cry."。
The prophet says, "What shall I cry?"。
留意這一段的聖經,聖靈就說,你呼喊吧,先知就說,那呼喊什麼呢?。
And the word of the Lord is, "Everything is transitory, not permanent except the word of God."。
聖經就說,所有的東西都是暫時的,除了上帝的說話。。
But that's not what Isaiah was supposed to cry out.。
其實先知不是要呼叫這些的。。
Rather, that's the reason why he should cry out what he was told to cry out.。
有一個原因是令到他要去呼喊某一樣東西。。
What shall I cry out? Isaiah asked.。
Yu Tsui Hsiang在問,我要呼喊些什麼?。
And the answer is, there is nothing worthy to be cried out because everything is temporary.。
The only thing worthy is the word of God that is eternal.。
上帝的說話就是說,其實沒有什麼東西是值得你們去呼喊的。。
除了上帝的說話,唯有上帝的說話是永存。。
So in the wilderness, what are we to cry out?。
在曠野裏面,我們要呼喊些什麼呢?。
In the wilderness, what's the word of God that will encourage us?。
在曠野裏面,有什麼神的說話是可以鼓勵我們呢?。
Isaiah 40 verse 9 gives the answer.。
二孩書四十章九節給我們答案。。
Go on up a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news.。
Live up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem, herald of good news.。
Live it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God.。
第九節說,報好信息的錫安,要在登高山,報好信息的耶路撒冷。。
要極力揚聲,不要懼怕。對猶大的城鎮說,看呀,你們的神。。
That's what the word of God proclaim, in your wilderness, behold your God.。
在曠野裏面,你們要呼喊的就是,看呀,你們的神。。
In your wilderness, live up your eyes to God, because God is mightily at work in your life.。
在你的曠野裏面,你要仰望你的神,去看上這個偉大的神,。
在你的生命裏面要做些什麼?。
In your wilderness, don't walk with your own wisdom, walk with the wisdom of God's word.。
在你的曠野裏面,不要用你的智慧來去生活,用上帝的說話,叫你看到上帝的工作。。
Look up and prepare the way for the Lord.。
所以仰望去預備上帝的道路。。
Behold your God.。
看呀,你們的神。。
I want to close with a true story.。
我用一個真的故事來結束。。
It is about a chess expert by the name of Paul Morphy.。
有一個象棋大師的名字叫做Paul Morphy。。
He was invited to dinner in a large house.。
有一個人邀請他去到一個大屋裏面做晚餐。。
And in the house he saw a painting of two chess players.。
在這個餐廳裏面,他看到一幅畫有兩個人物正在對弈。。
It was a painting of a young man playing chess with Satan, and Satan has won, and the young man looks hopeless.。
這幅畫的兩個人物,一個是年輕人,另一個是撒旦,他們正在對弈。。
而那個情況是撒旦在贏,差不多贏了,這個年輕人已經很絕望。。
And the name of the painting is Checkmate.。
而這個畫的題目就是將軍死了。。
In other words, it is game over.。
就是玩完了。。
But the chess expert Paul Morphy says, you know, I can take the young man's position and win against Satan.。
Paul Morphy就對那個家主說,如果我來代這個年輕人的話,我有把握去贏到撒旦的。。
His host said, Oh, Mr. Morphy, not even you can turn the chess game around.。
Paul Morphy says, why don't we try and see? So they set up the chess pieces according to the painting.。
And he played the game, and to the surprise of everyone, he actually won the game and turned it around.。
In fact, it is such a surprising twist around that its Chronicle in the Chess Chronicles published in New York in August 1888.。
這個局的棋是十分經典,經典到在1818年的這個棋的雜誌裡面刊登了出來。。
It stunned the chess world.。
整個的象棋世界震驚。。
So his friend asked him, how did you know the chess game can be turned around?。
那個家主就在問,你怎樣知道這個局棋是可以逆轉的呢?。
He said, when I examined the painting, I made a discovery.。
Paul Morphy就說,當我去檢查這個棋盤的時候,我就發現了一些東西。。
I discovered it's not a checkmate, not game over, because the king has one more move.。
我就發現是未死得的,因為這個棋的皇帝的棋子還有一步可以走的。。
And when the king makes the move, the entire chess game changed.。
而這個皇帝走過一步的時候,整個的局勢就會變了。。
When our king, the Lord Jesus, was crucified, Satan thought he has won.。
當我們的君王耶穌在十字架上面被釘死的時候,撒旦就認為他贏了。。
But the Lord Jesus has one more move. He rose from the dead.。
但是我們的君王還有一步走,就是他從死裡復活。。
And everything was changed around.。
一切都變了。。
No matter how difficult your circumstance is, our king has one more move.。
無論你的環境是多麼的惡劣,我們的君王還有一步走。。
Prepare your heart in the wilderness.。
在你們的曠野裡,預備你們的心。。
Behold your God.。
仰望看你們的神。。
Prepare the way for the Lord.。
預備耶和華你們的神的道路。。
Because our king has one more move.。
因為我們的君王還有一步走。。
Will you bow with me and pray?。
我們一起祈禱。。
Holy Father, thank you for the victory that is in King Jesus.。
天父啊,我們為耶穌基督的勝利感謝你。。
In our wilderness, draw us to Him.。
在我們的曠野裡,吸引我們去親近主。。
To behold the way of the Lord.。
去仰望我們的主。。
To behold the power of God.。
去仰望我們上帝的能力。。
To keep on walking in faith and not in doubt.。
繼續用信心,而不是用懷疑去走下去。。
To prepare the way of the Lord in the wilderness.。
去在曠野裡預備我們上帝的道路。。
We thank you in Jesus' name.。
我們感謝主奉耶穌的名。。
