親愛的弟兄姊妹和各位朋友,今天是一個充滿喜樂和很有意義的日子。我們聚集在教會歡迎Jackson加入我們雪孫這個大家庭。。
Jackson,我們今天和你一起慶祝,因為你公開地宣揚你不僅是教會的一個過客,並且是我們這個信徒群體裡面的紮根。。
I do want you to understand the weight of what is happening today. Meanwhile, I believe today's message is also a great reminder for all of us, like every follower of Jesus.。
今天Jackson加入我們教會,成為我們會友當然很重要,但我們深信今天的訊息對每一位在座的信徒都是一個很重要的提升。。
We live in a culture that is terrified of commitment.。
我們現在生活在一個社會裡面的文化是很怕承諾和毀身的。。
We like to keep our options open, and we join clubs, we subscribe to streaming services, and we follow social media accounts, all things that we can cancel with a single click the moment we lose interest.。
我們經常會給自己留一條路,加入不同的俱樂部,訂閱不同的音樂和電影串流平台,或者我們去join social media,因為我們沒有興趣,按一個按鈕就可以取消訂閱。。
In the modern world, joining something is casual, but joining church is completely different.。
It is not a subscription, it is a covenant, it is an initiation into a new family.。
我們現在加入教會和加入不同的平台都是很不一樣的。。
這個不是一個訂閱的會員制度,是一個盟約,是加入一個屬靈家庭的儀式。。
When you become a member, you are like stepping out of the crowd of casual attendants and stepping into the core of the family.。
You are saying, I am no longer just a guest in this house, I am taking ownership of it.。
當你成為教會成員的時候,你是從一個普通的信徒進入這個信仰家庭的核心,你現在會說,我不再是一個這個家庭的過客,而是成為這個家庭的一份子。。
Today we turn to Apostle Paul's letter to the Ephesians, chapter 4.。
我們今天來看寶羅寫給耳筆所教會的書信,耳筆所書第四章。。
I want you to picture where Paul is when he writes those words.。
He is not sitting in a comfortable pastor's office.。
He is sitting and chained in a cold, dark Roman prison because of his faith in Jesus.。
我想你想像一下寶羅當時寫這個書信的情景,他不是坐在很舒適的牧師的房間裏面,而是因為耶穌的緣故,他現在是關在羅馬的監獄裏面。。
And from that prison cell, he writes these sixteen verses to paint a brilliant and complete picture of what it means to be a committed member of the Christ Church.。
在這個牢房裏面,他寫了第十六節的經文,很生動地和完整地描述了成為一個基督教會忠實信徒的意義。。
He shows us that belonging to Jesus cannot be separate from belonging to his people.。
寶羅教導我們,歸屬於基督和歸屬於他的信徒的群體是不可以分開的。。
To be a formal member of this church means three fundamental things.。
The first one is deeply engaging with his family, the second is actively committing to his work, and the last is purposefully building up his body.。
成為教會的會友意味著三件很重要的事情,第一就是深入參與他的家庭,第二就是積極去衛生他的事工,和很有目的地建立他的身體。。
Paul begins in the first one with a powerful and emotional plea, "As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received."。
寶羅在第一節開頭就很有力量地懇求當時的信徒,。
"我為主被囚的勸你們,既然蒙召行事為人,就當與蒙召的恩相稱。"。
Notice that he reminds them he is a prisoner. He is saying that, "This faith costs my freedom, so do not treat it lightly. Live a life worthy of it."。
請注意,他提醒他們自己是一個囚犯,他當時在說,。
"我為此信仰付出了自由的代價,所以不要輕視你們享有的自由,更要活出與這信仰相稱的生命。"。
But what does a worthy life look like? Is it achieving great worldly success?。
Is it just reading your Bible alone in your room or watching a great sermon online?。
究竟與這信仰相稱的生命是怎樣的呢?。
是不是有很大的成就?。
是不是可以自己在房間裡讀自體聖經,或者上網去看一個精彩的講道?。
No. Look at verse 2 and 3. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love.。
Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace.。
這些都不是,請看第二節和第三節。。
凡事謙虛、溫柔、忍耐,用愛心互相寬容,用和平彼此聯絡,竭力保守聖靈所賜合而為一的心。。
Engaging in church life means embracing the messy yet beautiful reality of living in close proximity with other believers.。
參與教會的生活意味著擁抱和每一個信徒親密相處之中,有很複雜又美好的現實。。
We live in an age of profound loneliness.。
People have thousands of online followers, but no one to call at 2am when their world falls apart.。
We desperately need new community, but real community is hard.。
我們生活在一個很孤獨的時代,很多人可能在社交媒體上有很多粉絲,。
但當凌晨兩點鐘他們心情很低落的時候,想去找一個人去傾訴,是沒有的。。
我們心底裏面真正的團契,但是真正的團契就是很不容易得到。。
Paul says, make every effort to keep the unity.。
保羅說,要竭力保守合一。。
The Greek word for "make every effort" implies a sweating and exhausting kind of work.。
竭力在希臘原文的意思是表達著一種很竭盡全力、筋疲力竭的努力。。
Unity does not happen by accident. It requires humility, gentleness and patience.。
合一並不是隨便就可以得到,它需要謙卑、溫柔和忍耐。。
I noticed the phrase "bearing with one another in love", and let's be completely honest with ourselves.。
You only need to bear with someone if they occasionally annoy or frustrate you.。
留意保羅的說話,用愛心互相寬容。。
老實說,我們面對著很善良或者對我們好的人,我們不需要用愛心去寬容。。
但當有些人持續去激怒你或者令你很憤怒的時候,我們才需要去寬容他們。。
When you become a member of the church, you are joining people you might never choose to be friends with naturally.。
當你去加入一個教會成為會友的時候,你可能加入一班原本你不會主動去選擇成為朋友的人。。
Maybe there is a successful businessman sitting next to the struggling student and the elderly widow worshipped alongside the noisy or crying toddler.。
可能有一個很成功的商人,旁邊就坐著一個很刻苦的學生,一個年紀老邁的寡婦,身邊可能坐著一個一直在吵的小朋友。。
We are like rough stones put into a rock tumbler.。
As we tumble together, we bump into each other and that is friction.。
But that friction is exactly what God uses to smooth our rough edges and make us shine like jewels.。
我們就好像一粒粒很粗糙的石頭放入一個滾筒裏面。。
我們這班石頭互相去碰撞,產生磨擦。。
但是上帝會用這種磨擦去磨平我們的稜角,讓我們好像珍珠和寶石一樣去閃耀光華。。
Engaging in church life means that when misunderstandings happen, and they will happen, we don't walk away.。
The consumer leaves when they feel offended, but the confident family member, we stay.。
參與教會的生活意味著人與人之間的誤會一定會發生,但這些誤會是必然的。。
我們不會離開,我們不會好像消費者一樣覺得被冒犯,然後我們就走。。
我們會好像盟約的屬靈家庭裏面,我們會留下來。。
We sit down, we look each other in the eyes, and we forgive, we bear with one another.。
That is true belonging means, when we refuse to let friction destroy our family.。
我們會坐低,我們會互相寬恕,彼此去包容。。
真正的歸屬感就是說意味著我們去拒絕人與人之間互相磨擦而產生的破壞。。
And Jackson, today you are stepping into a community of imperfect people.。
We are definitely far from saints, and we might sometimes fail you.。
But we are also a family that will love you fiercely, pray with you, and walk beside you through life's darkest valley.。
We will not let you walk alone, and this is what true belonging looks like.。
Jackson,你今天加入一個不完美的團體,我們每一個人都不是聖人,我們都一定會令你失望。。
我們這個大家庭會全心全意地愛你,跟你一起去禱告,陪伴你走過人生最黑暗的低谷。。
我們不會讓你孤單地走人生路,這些才是真正的歸屬感。。
A belonging is just the first step. True belonging must overflow into serving.。
If you belong to a family, you don't just eat the food, you help to wash the dishes.。
但歸屬感只是第一步,真正的歸屬感是必須延伸到付出和服侍。。
就好像我們是屬於一個家,你不單止只是吃飯,你會幫忙洗碗。。
Paul moves on from our shared unity to our unique individual roles.。
保羅在這裡跟我們說,我們轉向各自獨特的角色。。
In verse 7 he says, but to each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned it.。
在第七節他說道,我們各人蒙恩都是照在基督所量級各人的恩賜。。
God has given every single one of you sitting here today a specific unique gift. Why?。
上帝賜給我們每一個都有獨特的恩賜,為什麼呢?。
Paul explains in verse 11 and 12 that Christ gave leaders, pastors and teachers to equip His people for works of service, so that the body of Christ may be built up.。
保羅在第11、12節繼續解釋,基督賜下領袖、牧師和教師,為要成全聖徒各盡其職,建立基督的身體。。
Listen carefully to Paul, this is a paradigm shift. Ministry is not just the job of us, the pastoral staff.。
Pastors are the equipers, and each of you, the congregants, are the ministers.。
讓我們看看保羅這裡怎麼說,福司不只是牧師的工作,牧師只是裝備我們,而你們每一個會眾都是服事者。。
Think of a rescue lifeboat out in the freezing ocean.。
想想一個很冷的大海上的救生艇。。
The church is not a luxury cruise ship where you pay a ticket so that you can sit back on the deck chair and expect the staff to serve you the gospel on a silver platter.。
想想教會不是一艘豪華的郵輪,不是你給了錢買票,你就可以睡在甲板上休息,也不是去等工作人員把福音的聖言放在你的面前。。
No, the church is a rescue lifeboat pulling broken people out of the dark waters of sin and despair.。
And the moment you are saved, you are pulled into this boat and hand and all to roll.。
不是,教會只是一艘救生艇,要將破碎的人在黑暗和絕望的深淵裡面拉出來。。
當你得救那一刻,你就上了這個救生艇,還有你會有一支槳,你就要幫忙去撐槳和去救人。。
Committing to church ministry means taking a hard look at your life and asking, "Have I become a spectator?"。
It means asking, "Where is there a need in this church that I can fill in?"。
偉新在教會的意味著你認真去審視自己,你去問自己,我是不是只是一個旁觀者呢?教會裡面有哪些需要我可以幫忙的地方呢?。
I am often reminded of a retired gentleman in his late 60s from a church I previously attended.。
我記得我以前回教會有一個七十幾歲退休的老先生。。
He humbly supported the community by faithfully attending every service, every prayer meeting, fellowship and every gathering.。
他很低調地支持教會,每一次的崇拜、祈禱會、團契和不同的聚會他都會很努力去參加。。
And I noticed that every Sunday he arrived at least half an hour early.。
To be honest, how many of us can come in early if not on time on Sundays?。
我留意到每一個星期日他都至少早半個鐘回到教會,老實講我們當中有幾多個人是每一個星期日都可以準時甚至提早回來教會的呢?。
Even on the days that he wasn't on the volunteer roster, he simply wanted to make sure everything at church was in order.。
He would quietly clean up the mess, arrange the chairs, the tables, and spend intentional times talking with and caring for the young people.。
即使他那天不在侍奉名單上面,他都會提早來到教會,確保教會一切整整有條。。
他會清潔地方,他會擺好些椅子,和會抽時間和人們聊天。。
When his actions might have seemed small to some, his quiet and steadfast commitment to serving in the unseen details was deeply profound.。
雖然他的行為好像很少,微不足道,但他每一個星期都敢做,和他持之以恆,在做一些人們不留意的服務中。。
Your work of service might be welcoming strangers at the front door simply with a warm smile, so they feel safe in the new place.。
It might be teaching Sunday school, patiently shaping the hearts of the next generation.。
It might be completely unseen, unglamorous work of setting up chairs and tables, sweeping the floors, or fixing the audio-visual equipment.。
Your work of service might be welcoming strangers at the front door simply with a warm smile, so they feel safe in the new place.。
It might be teaching Sunday school, patiently shaping the hearts of the next generation.。
It might be completely unseen, unglamorous work of setting up chairs and tables, sweeping the floors, or fixing the audio-visual equipment.。
Yet no task is too small when it is done for Jesus.。
When you serve, you are offering a physical sacrifice of praise to Jesus.。
任何事情在神的眼中都不是算少,當你服事的時候,你實際就以行動去敬拜神。。
I challenge you today, do not bury your talents, do not hide your gifts.。
If you do not serve, a part of our church body is paralyzed, and we are literally incomplete without you doing your part.。
我今日去挑戰大家,不要埋沒你的才能,不要隱藏你的恩賜。。
如果你不服事,教會就有一部分會癱瘓,如果沒有你的參與,我們教會就會變得不完整。。
When we engage deeply and serve actively, something miraculous happens. We reach the third and final aspect, building the church community.。
We transition from being spiritual infants into mature, resilient followers of Christ.。
當我們在教會投入維生和積極服事的時候,奇蹟就會發生,我們就會去到最後一個元素,就是建立教會團體。。
令到我們由屬靈的小孩變成成熟、堅韌的基督的跟隨者。。
Paul describes why this is so critical in verse 14, when we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves, and blown here and there by every wind of teaching.。
在第十四節繼續解釋:這樣我們不再作小孩子,被一切異教之風搖動,飄來飄去。。
We live in a world of cultural hurricanes, the winds of secularism, the waves of anxiety, the shifting tides of morality. They are tearing people apart.。
我們今天生活在一個文化潮流充斥的年代,有世俗主義,有焦慮的浪潮,有道德觀念的不斷變幻,人心的不斷侵蝕。。
If you try to stand alone against all these storms, you will be swept away. You need a solid weight of a committed community to anchor you. 假如我們嘗試用自己的能力去對抗這些潮流,我們可能會被捲走。我們需要一個堅定的群體來去堅固我們的根基。。
And how does the community do this? Paul gives us the secret in verse 15 and 16. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will grow to become in every respect the mature body of Him who is the head, that is, Christ.。
From Him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each part does its worth.。
And how does the community do this? Paul gives us the secret in verse 15 and 16. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will grow to become in every respect the mature body of Him who is the head, that is, Christ.。
Notice the critical balance, speaking the truth in love.。
我們要留意其中一個關鍵詞,就是用愛心說誠實話。。
Truth without love is harsh, judgmental and crushing. It destroys people.。
如果真理是沒有愛的話,就變成很嚴厲的判斷,叫人很痛苦,甚至會摧毀人。。
But love without truth is sentimental, weak and cowardly. It leaves people stuck in their sins and addictions.。
但如果沒有真理的愛,就很情緒化,很軟弱,很懦弱,它會令到人繼續陷在罪中。。
Real biblical community means loving a brother and sister enough to gently look them in the eye and say, "The choice you are making is destroying your life."。
And it means being humble enough to listen when someone warns you.。
真正按照真理的團契意味著,如果我們愛的弟兄走到這一步的時候,。
你可以溫柔地跟他說,你所做的選擇正是破壞你的人生,同時也意味著謙虛地聆聽別人的警告。。
Think about the human body. For a child to grow into a strong, healthy adult,。
every organ, every bone and every microscopic ligament must do its part.。
If your liver stops working, your whole body dies.。
就好像我們的身體,一個孩子要成長成為健壯健康的人的時候,。
我們每一個器官,我們每一個骨骼,每一個微小的人大,都是各按其跡。。
例如如果我們的肝臟停止工作,我們身體就會死亡。。
The church is exactly the same. We build ourselves up in love only when each part does its work.。
教會也是這樣,唯有每一個部分都各按其跡,我們才能夠在愛中去建立自己。。
I usually, during preaching, us, the pastors, provide some application or examples for the congregation,。
so that you know what you can do to live out the Bible.。
我們牧者通常在講道的時候都會提供一些實際的應用或者例子,。
令到你知道怎樣將聖經付諸實行。。
But this time, I would like to encourage you yourself to reflect on how you can practice what the scripture says.。
這一次我鼓勵你自己去想想怎樣可以將聖經的道理去實踐出來。。
I would like to encourage you to think of a person who hasn't been showing up at the service or fellowship,。
a face that you haven't been seeing for a while.。
我想鼓勵你去想想有沒有一個人很久沒有來教會參加崇拜或者團體活動。。
或者他現在是在人質的谷底,或者他被世界的文化浪潮吹到飄來飄去,。
或者他需要你的陪伴和鼓勵。。
我鼓勵你今天下午就拿起電話,發一個訊息,打一個電話,或者邀請他喝咖啡。。
你不需要一個神學學位才可以用愛心說誠實話。。
你只需要出現,你要讓他知道有人去掛著他們,。
讓他們知道他們很重要,他們是教會不可或缺的一部分。。
讓我們立志成為暴風中彼此扶持的群體,不讓任何人獨自去面對這個風浪。。
當你和耶穌更接近的時候,你的信仰也會引領你身邊的人更加去接近耶穌。。
我們不只是靠自己,我們不能夠就這樣靠自己達到屬靈的成熟,。
我們要一起去共同去成長,不然我們就會停滯不前。。
來到訊息的結尾,讓我和傑森再多說幾句。。
當你今天毀了這個教會的時候,請記住基督對你那份浩瀚和難以言喻的愛。。
這份愛驅使耶穌基督走上月林林的十字架,將你贖回歸入祂的家。。
當你回顧四周,看看禮堂裡所有人的面孔,請記住現在我們是你的家人。。
今天我誠意邀請你以愛心和我們攜手同行,一起為教會的合一而努力,。
希望你能夠繼續發掘神賜給你的屬靈恩賜,並且與我們一同服事,。
也希望你一同去建立教會,叫我們彰顯耶穌基督的樣式。。
而其他的會眾,當傑森今天在我們面前公開宣言,。
我們絕對是有責任,也是上帝給予我們的責任,去歡迎祂,去保護祂,去包容祂的缺點,去裝備祂,去服事,並且與祂同工,直到耶穌基督再來的日子。。
願上帝繼續賜給我們救援的恩典,令我們成為一個愛中緊密的團體,在服事中積極行動,不斷去共同成長,效法我主耶穌基督的教會。。
讓我們低頭祈禱,。
我們天上的父,我們今天懷著無比感恩的心來到您的面前,。
我們感謝祢賜給我們的救恩,也感謝祢賜給我們有教會,這個基督美麗的新娘。。
主,我們今天特別為傑克遜禱告,因為他願意公開宣認加入雪孫這個教會的大家庭,我們祈求祢賜給他勇氣,讓他能夠深入參與和委身教會。。
讓到我們中間如果有磨擦的時候,求神祢賜給我們謙卑,溫柔和耐心,讓我們彼此以愛包容。。
求主幫助我們,當我們遇到困難的時候,不退縮,而是努力奮鬥,堅守聖靈所賜的合一。。
主,我們祈求祢喚醒,祢賜給我們每一個的屬靈恩賜,讓我們可以忠心服侍祢。。
主,我們內心每一個好像想做消費者或旁觀者的念頭,賜給我們能力去承擔和共同努力。。
父啊,最後我們求祢幫助我們建立這個教會屬靈的身體,求主賜給我們勇氣,教導我們用愛心說誠實話,教導我們不再像屬靈的嬰孩一樣,被世界的風浪搖動。。
求神你用每一個的肢體,讓我們緊緊地連結在一起,直到這個教會彰顯主耶穌基督美好的樣式。。
我們將每一個人的生命都放在神的手裡。。
奉耶穌基督的名頭。
阿們。
