[MUSIC]。
[MUSIC]。
All right, Porch, how we doing? We doing okay? Oh man, it's so great to see you.。
If this is your first time to the Porch, welcome. We're really glad that you're in the space.。
Normally this is the moment where I would shift real hard and we would go straight to this.。
We're going to do that in a moment.。
I think that God might not be done with the moment we just came out of.。
I just felt like the presence of God moving in a really powerful and palpable way here amongst us.。
And I'm a firm believer, like, we're not the weekly entertainment.。
Like, you're not coming here so you can listen to me preach and watch us worship.。
No, God is the reason we show up into this space every single week.。
His worship is the object of our affection. His word is the object of our attention.。
And the wonder of God is the object of our enchantment.。
And so I want to give you a moment right now just to pray for yourself.。
I don't even know what to prompt you to pray.。
You just need to pray. I just feel a deep sense from the Lord that you're supposed to take a moment。
and just bow your head and say, "God, I sense you near. Would you meet with me now?。
Would you unlock God? You might already be opening up here this evening."。
So can we do that together? Would you be willing?。
Again, we believe that God meets with us here.。
He can meet with anybody, anytime, anyplace, but we want to give you a space right now to meet with Him.。
Even if you haven't clicked into the reality that He's here and He's wanting to meet with you.。
So take a moment and just pray for yourself in whatever way you feel led,。
in whatever way that you're wanting for.。
Ask God to give you more of Himself.。
[silence]。
Oh God, the silence is so good.。
It's a good God to sit in the stillness of a moment like this。
and to know, God, that while it might feel so empty, it could not be more full.。
It is full of you.。
God, we desperately want to meet with you.。
And we're grateful, God, that that desperate longing is not unmet by you.。
You feel the same way.。
So God, would you meet with us now?。
I don't know what you want to do,。
but God, I want you to do whatever it is.。
We love you.。
And it's in Christ's name that we pray these things.。
Amen.。
Well, hey, it's great to be with you.。
I'm really excited for tonight.。
I want to give a special shout out to all of our friends that are tuning in online.。
We have not forgotten about you.。
All of our Porch Live locations that are tuning in from all over the place.。
I mean, it's amazing what God is doing in this room,。
but He is doing similar things in rooms just like this all across the country.。
Special shout out to Porch Live, Great Or Lafayette, Fort Worth, and Dayton.。
Would you put your hands together for all of our friends that are tuning in online right now?。
We love you. We see you.。
And if you're ever in Dallas, come and spend a little bit of time with us.。
Well, I don't know if there's something in your life that you've sworn to yourself。
you would never, ever do.。
But there is one thing in my life that I've said,。
"Man, there's no way I would be caught dead doing that."。
You want to know what it is?。
I have sworn to myself that I will never, ever run through an airport.。
Not that there's something wrong with that.。
I'm sure people that are doing it have a really good reason to do so.。
I just can't think of one.。
I think that there's plenty of reason to make your way out of that type of situation。
if you would just prepare in advance.。
Buy your tickets early, make sure your parking is booked,。
download your mobile boarding pass, show up,。
and if you're checking bags, give time for that.。
Just know, man, TSA is probably going to be a little bit tricky.。
Something's going to go wrong.。
Someone's hair product or shampoo, body wash is going to signal something。
because they didn't get the right size liquid container.。
It's going to stymie the rest of your progress through that space.。
It's not that difficult.。
And yet, as luck would have it, my wife and I, when we were in Frankfurt, Germany,。
in the middle of a layover between one flight to the next,。
found ourselves in a situation, Alexa, which I never would have invited upon myself.。
You see, we landed, and in the midst of our layover, we knew,。
"Okay, we've got like 45 minutes," which is brief, but it's also convenient。
because we know exactly where we're going.。
We've prepared very well. We know the gate that we're moving to.。
We check one more time. We exit our plane. We start walking our way.。
And right as we get to the gate that we thought we were going to be leaving from,。
I look up, and I do not see the name of the city to which we are flying to.。
Cue the appropriate airport panic that I've never wanted to feel in my life.。
You see, somewhere between us landing, checking our boarding pass,。
and then deboarding the plane, our gate got updated.。
And yet, we did not know about it. So we had made our way to the wrong place,。
and yet in this moment, having casually strolled our way to where we were then,。
where we originally thought we were going, we realized there's nothing casual。
about the situation we're in now.。
We have got not 45 minutes, 10 minutes to get from one terminal to the next,。
lest we miss our flight altogether.。
What do you think we did in that moment?。
We ran. 1,000% we ran.。
But we tried to do that thing where you sort of like run/walk。
because you don't want to draw attention to yourself。
or be considered as odd to the rest of the surrounding people.。
And yet what we realized as we did that is it wasn't exactly working.。
People were looking at us, and we stood out,。
and we realized we're not getting where we need to go in the time that we need to get there.。
And so what we decided to do is we shifted gears.。
We went into high drive, and we picked up our luggage.。
It was no longer working to roll it.。
We were pushing through crowds. Excuse me. Pardon me. I'm so sorry.。
And we were racing through the airport yelling, "Go, go, go!"。
Like paratroopers deployed into a drop zone.。
I mean, this was our situation because though our destination had not changed,。
our situation had changed.。
And because our situation changed,。
everything about the way we moved in that moment changed as well.。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because I think that we're living in a very special time in history。
where God is moving in a uniquely different way.。
And yet the window to be a part of it is slowly closing.。
And that should change everything about the way we move.。
What are you talking about, Kylan?。
Well, I don't know if you're aware,。
but there is something genuinely amazing happening all across。
not just our country, but the globe.。
And it goes by the name of revival.。
Maybe you don't like that name.。
People have a variety of responses when they hear the word revival.。
Some are very hopeful. Others are very gullible.。
Some are very skeptical. Some are very cynical.。
I don't know what your response is or what other word you would prefer.。
An outpouring, an awakening.。
What we can agree to is something is happening right now in our modern moment.。
If you don't believe me, then just listen to this.。
The Barna Group recently reported that 66% of Americans。
have made personal commitments to Jesus that are important in their lives today.。
The reason that's so meaningful is because that is up 12% in just three years。
from when it was at its lowest mark。
over the course of Barna's 30-year tracking history of the same statistic.。
Three years. It rose to 66%.。
According to their estimation, this is the clearest indication。
of a meaningful spiritual renewal in the United States, which is amazing.。
And yet what's even more amazing is its young adults。
that are leading the way on this particular movement.。
And even more amazing is its young men.。
Crazy to think that that's true.。
But it's not just happening here in America.。
This is also happening all over the globe, like in the UK.。
Church attendance has quadrupled amongst young adults.。
But catch this, it has quintupled amongst young men,。
continuing the trend that we're seeing here in the States.。
In Australia, more than 800,000 people have moved from identifying as irreligious。
to Christian according to the national census that they took last year.。
800,000 people.。
With 70% of the millennials in Gen Z。
that was associated within that group。
saying that their Christianity is now paired with monthly church attendance.。
That they don't just believe in God, they want to belong to his people.。
In France, the total number of baptisms has increased by 45% in just one year.。
The vast majority of which are young adults.。
In Finland, 62% of young boys, which is the youngest faction of Gen Z,。
but will be young adults soon,。
they agreed to believing in the existence of God.。
Doubling that number from where it was five years ago.。
And according to the Wall Street Journal,。
there has been a 50% increase in Bible sales since 2019.。
What does all of that mean?。
We are in the midst of what experts are calling a quiet revival.。
Perhaps you prefer that term instead.。
And yet it's not just sweeping the nation,。
it's not just sweeping the globe,。
it's also sweeping into Hollywood.。
Because we have seen people, the likes of which Hulk Hogan,。
Gwen Stefani, Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Kat Von D, and Denzel Washington。
have all been baptized in just the last couple of years.。
And still others, people like Andrew Hubberman,。
affirming his faith in God to jelly roll,。
openly claiming a heart for Jesus,。
has led us to this one irrefutable fact。
that God is moving.。
He's moving.。
He's actually making a meaningful movement.。
He's been doing this all over the course of history,。
and yet what's significant about the moment we find right now。
is we can see it, not just here and not just within ourselves,。
but out there amongst them as well.。
So we need to ask ourselves,。
how does this change the way we move in response?。
If God is moving,。
how then does that change the way that I move through my life?。
Because I think it should.。
I think that Jesus has a far bigger vision。
for the life he's come to give you than you may well know.。
And it doesn't matter where you fall on the spectrum of spirituality.。
I think that this is true for Christians and non-Christians alike.。
I think that for many Christians,。
we fear that we'll go too far spiritually,。
that we actually don't go far enough spiritually.。
For non-Christians, I think we look at our lives and we say,。
"Man, it's good as is."。
And yet how much better might it be if you actually know Jesus?。
Think about what he has done.。
He left heaven.。
He came to earth.。
He lived the perfect life.。
He resisted every inch and ounce of temptation imaginable.。
And then he moved to the cross.。
He died a horrific death, a death that you deserve.。
And yet he decided to take up his own life by way of resurrection.。
And then he sent power from on high to fill those that might believe in him.。
Why do you think he did all that?。
Just so you might be a little bit more moral?。
Just so you might be a little bit better person than the average human being out there?。
No!。
That's not why he's done it.。
Jesus has done this because he wants more for you.。
The question that you need to answer is if you want more for yourself.。
Do you want more for yourself?。
If you do, then I want to show you where to begin tonight.。
And the place that we're going to do it is in the book of Hosea.。
So if you have a Bible, you can go ahead and crack it open and you can turn there.。
Don't worry, I'm going to talk and give you time to find that book.。
Hosea chapter 10.。
While you're turning there, we're starting a brand new series tonight。
that truthfully has been a long time in the making for me.。
If you were around at the beginning of our year, the very first porch even,。
I stood on this stage and I walked in fully anticipating that God was going to let me preach。
something completely different.。
And yet he sidelined that something for a moment that would come later on.。
What is that something?。
It's this series.。
And when is that time?。
It's right now.。
We firmly believe that God is wanting us to engage in the current cultural moment。
and the spiritual surge we're seeing in the lives of people all over,。
but particularly our generation.。
And yet in order to do it adequately, we can't just give a single week.。
That would not be enough.。
We want to give multiple weeks, week after week, talking into this idea。
because what we believe is that true revival doesn't just happen through a powerful moment.。
True revival happens through persistent movement.。
It happens through a persistent movement.。
Let me explain it to you like this.。
We've all gotten motivated and up in arms about something that we want to learn.。
Right?。
I want to learn to play the guitar.。
I want to learn to get in shape.。
I want to learn to knit.。
Like that's a thing right now.。
Crocheting is kind of in.。
We can get motivated for a moment.。
And maybe we even act on that motivation.。
And yet what we find is often it doesn't stand the test of time.。
I remember when I was a young boy, I was a horrible reader.。
And yet I thought the idea of reading was so very noble.。
I wasn't great at it.。
You know, whenever it came to our AR points, if you know, you know,。
I chose to read every picture book and not any literary classics.。
And yet what I realized is leaders are readers.。
And so if you want to be a leader, you better become a reader.。
And I decided, you know what I'm in, I will do this.。
And so I would go to the book bear.。
I would peruse the books.。
I would pick those which looked to be the most sophisticated and savvy for my development.。
And I would work through them until I grew disinterested.。
And they started to collect dust on the shelf.。
What finally made the difference?。
The difference was I moved from motivation to dedication.。
I stopped worrying about the moment of, of the moment where I cared to make a move.。
And I started thinking about the movement that needed to happen in me.。
And if I actually wanted to develop as a reader.。
And so I started setting time aside.。
I started making sure that my calendar was cleared.。
I started giving up other hobbies so that way I could grow in this area.。
I didn't need more motivation.。
I needed more dedication.。
Revival and outpouring of the spirit and awakening work of God.。
It requires the same thing.。
Sure, it can begin in a, it can begin through a powerful moment in a room like this.。
But it lasts through a persistent movement in hearts like yours.。
It can't just happen like a spectacle.。
It needs to be deeply spiritual.。
And that's what I want to help you learn.。
I love the way that Mark Sayers says this.。
He says personal renewals begin in the hidden places.。
Eventually this interchange of heart will overflow out into external lives.。
Creating a potential for renewal in the social world around us.。
To put that very simply, widespread revival begins with internal renewal.。
Meaning you don't find revival by searching for it, by banging the emotional drum,。
by guilting people into engagement.。
You find revival by seeking renewal.。
A vibrant faith, an intimacy with Jesus, a greater delight in the gospel.。
And a deepening of your personal dependence on him for what only he can do.。
So how do we do that?。
How do we actually invest in our personal individual renewal?。
Well, it's going to take some time to teach you.。
But that's what this series is and that's what the next coming weeks are.。
I want to help you take step by step by step in your personal renewal.。
That way you might experience more of God in your life.。
But before we can get where you want to be, we need to assess where you are.。
We need to talk about what is happening before we consider what will happen.。
Which means we need to talk about your heart.。
I don't know how you feel about that idea.。
And yet this is the appropriate place to begin.。
And it's exactly what Hosea starts talking about in Hosea 10 verse 12.。
Look at verse 12 with me.。
One verse is all we're working tonight.。
He says, "So for yourselves righteousness, reap steadfast love.。
Break up your fallow ground for it's time to seek the Lord that he may come and reign righteousness upon you."。
You see, Hosea is saying to the nation of Israel exactly what God is saying to us tonight.。
Now is the time.。
It's time to make a move.。
It's time to take a stand.。
It's time to deepen down in your depth.。
And the place that we begin is by farming.。
Which probably caught you a little bit off guard.。
It's not exactly the most helpful, relevant reference point for us, Hosea.。
Something that would have been better is refresh your feed.。
Share your story.。
And then accept the followers that come in kind.。
That would have been a more modern translation of what's happening here.。
And yet what he is saying is not out of touch, but very in touch with the people he's speaking to.。
Because the nation of Israel, they were an agrarian society.。
They were great at working the land and harvesting a crop and taking up its yield.。
They were familiar with all of the work it took to actually bear fruit from the earth.。
As any good farmer knows, and these people would have known as well,。
it does you no good to plant seed unless you have first plowed soil.。
That's what Hosea means when he says, "Break up your fallow ground."。
What's fallow ground? Fallow ground is dormant ground.。
It's ground that has gone undisturbed.。
It's filled with weeds and thistles and rocks and debris.。
It's been untouched.。
And there's a good reason for it.。
The nation of Israel would do this because they would want their soil。
to replenish in terms of its nutrients, to prevent disease.。
And you've learned this in grade school science or social studies.。
It's called crop rotation, people.。
What do you do with fallow ground?。
You've got to break it up because though it is nutrient rich,。
it is hard as a rock.。
It has to be loosened.。
It's not accommodating for planting.。
It will not give you any growth because it is already overgrown.。
When my wife and I lived in Houston,。
we had an amazing front yard in our very first home.。
Amazing front yard.。
Like when it was freshly cut, this thing looked like a green pillow top mattress.。
And I loved it.。
That is until we had a very harsh winter.。
And by way of the seasons change, our yard got wrecked.。
Like disease and decay and death just gripped it。
and started choking the life out of it.。
So what did I do?。
When springtime rolled around, at the appropriate moment,。
just as Jose is saying,。
I decided to break up that hardened ground,。
to till up our soil,。
so that way I could lay new sod,。
the closest thing to farming we get in a big city.。
If the soil was not soft, the sod would not take.。
In the same way, you have to break up。
your hardness of heart。
if you want renewal to take root.。
Hardheartedness must be broken up.。
Your first point.。
If you want to be spiritually renewed,。
if you want more of God,。
then your hardheartedness has to be broken up.。
Let me ask you, why do our hearts grow hard?。
For one of three reasons.。
They either grow cold, calloused, or cluttered.。
Cold, calloused, or cluttered.。
What does it mean to have a cold heart?。
A cold heart looks like apathy to the things of God。
or indifference to the things of Jesus.。
Like we just don't care anymore.。
We don't care.。
And we might not admit that out loud,。
but if your quiet times feel more like。
you're paying Christian membership fees,。
or if it feels like your prayers。
are bottomed out of any of their emotion,。
or if you're showing up to church。
and it feels more synonymous with an inconvenience。
to deal with the parking than actually a blessing。
to walk in and experience the worship,。
then you might have a cold heart.。
Your heart might be hard in the coldest of ways.。
So how do you get yourself warm again?。
You come close to the source of heat.。
That's how you do it.。
Like if you're out in the cold,。
what's the right thing for you to do?。
It's to move out from the cold and into the warmth.。
And yet what you know is that。
it's not an instantaneous process.。
It takes time.。
Okay, so then let's just talk.。
Like what is the source of warmth。
that you need to near yourself to?。
The scriptures are abundantly clear.。
It's the word of God.。
It's the word of God.。
When Jesus approaches two of his disciples。
on the road to Emmaus,。
they say in Luke 24, verse 32,。
"Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us?"。
While he talked to us on the road,。
while he opened to us the scriptures.。
If you want your heart to get hot,。
the way that that works is you sit in his word.。
You don't just do it casually.。
You do it consistently.。
You make an effort,。
every effort to spend time near this book。
where you not only read,。
but he actually speaks.。
That's gonna warm your heart up.。
And if I can just make a recommendation,。
if it feels like, man,。
every time I pick this thing up,。
there's nothing in it for me,。
then I would encourage you go and sit in the Psalms.。
Now my spiritual elites in the room are like,。
of course you would recommend the Psalms.。
That's what everybody wants to read, including Jesus.。
Jesus did not quote any other book。
more than the book of Psalms.。
And Jesus also had the hottest heart of all.。
Like he was boiling inside for the glory of God。
to a point where he never faced a coldness of heart。
because he sat in the word of God。
as the word of God himself.。
That's the first thing.。
And the second thing is your heart might be calloused,。
which looks like a cynical or suspicious heart.。
Why are you cynical or suspicious?。
More than likely because you've been hurt.。
I like the way John Ortberg says this。
in his book, "Faith and Doubt,"。
"Scratch the surface of any cynic。
"and you will find a wounded idealist underneath."。
Some of you have endured some pain.。
You have suffered some hardship。
that just does not agree with this fact。
that God is a good and loving God.。
Like you've had something done to you.。
You've had something taken from you.。
You've lost something dear or someone dear。
you've wanted to fit in,。
and yet you felt totally left out.。
I don't know what it is, but whatever it is,。
it has left your heart hard in the most calloused of ways.。
So how do you break up the callousness?。
You remind yourself of the gospel.。
You preach yourself the gospel every single day.。
I remember being a young man and someone saying,。
"You should preach the gospel to yourself every day,"。
and it never actually resonated with me.。
I was like, "Dude, what do you mean by that?"。
Like, just repeat this thing over and over and over.。
What I realized is, no, the gospel is the central element,。
the core component to everything I do。
as I walk with God and I move through life.。
So when I read the word, I'm looking for Jesus.。
I want to connect this to Jesus.。
When I'm engaging with people,。
I want to see them the way Jesus sees them.。
Whenever I'm by myself,。
I want to think the thoughts of Jesus.。
I'm bringing the gospel into my life,。
and better, I'm bringing my life into the gospel.。
You think about the gospel.。
It breaks up your callousness.。
Ezekiel 36, 26, it says,。
as it's reported in the new covenant,。
"I will give you a new heart,。
"and I will put a new spirit in you.。
"I will remove from you your heart of stone。
"and give you a heart of flesh."。
If that's what he did in Christ,。
shouldn't we think more often about Christ?。
The last one is your heart can get cluttered.。
Everyone's got a junk drawer at home, yeah?。
Show of hands, who has a junk drawer?。
Yes.。
I don't know where we adopted this。
as a national interest,。
and yet everybody has one。
because everybody has things they don't know where to put.。
Anything and everything finds its way into this junk drawer.。
Let me just tell you, your heart is not a junk drawer.。
Your heart is not a junk drawer.。
It should not be cluttered with anything and everything.。
Instead, it should be set aside very specifically。
for something, that thing being Jesus.。
You see, we often give the space within our hearts。
away to other things,。
and what we need to do is we need to take that space back.。
Some of you, you've given your hearts away to success.。
You desperately want to make it in life.。
You want to make a difference.。
You want to make yourself matter,。
and so what you have chosen to do is give your heart away to success,。
and yet what success is doing is it is taking your heart from you.。
It's not giving you any life whatsoever.。
Same things happen in relationships.。
You're giving yourself over to a relationship.。
You think that that relationship is going to give back to you,。
that it's going to benefit you in some sort of blessed way,。
and yet it often doesn't if it's not rooted in Christ,。
and if it's not pointing towards the covenant。
that he has designed for his people to embody.。
I could keep going, but what you know is what Proverbs 4:23 says.。
"You should keep your heart with all vigilance, vigilance,。
for from it flow the springs of life."。
If you feel that your heart is hard,。
then empty it of what it does not deserve to be filled with,。
and fill it with what it deserves.。
Stop taking your phone to bed.。
It's getting you into too much trouble every time you take it there.。
Refuse to talk to your boyfriend or your girlfriend。
until you talk first to God in the mornings.。
He's your first love, so visit with him first and foremost.。
Try planning your day from your knees.。
I promise you'll realize you're not as in control as you think.。
Don't drink just because it's how you unwind.。
Go for a walk.。
Don't call your friend because you need to complain about that person.。
Why don't you call someone to encourage them instead?。
Be willing to remove that which is making your heart hard,。
that which is making your heart cluttered,。
and instead fill it with what will make it right.。
We must break up our hard-heartedness.。
As one of my former pastors would always say,。
"Kylin, the hard work is the hard work."。
Some of you need to do the hard work tonight.。
Some of you do not need to leave this room.。
You need to sit as long as it takes,。
not to finish the job,。
but just to break the ground.。
Not to scratch the surface,。
but to actually impact it for a difference。
and begin to till up the soil of your soul。
because until you do, you will not be able to sow into your satisfaction,。
which is where Hosea goes next.。
He says, "Sow righteousness. Reap steadfast love."。
Something I think we could all agree that we want in life is to be approved of.。
We want to be accepted by others.。
We want to be loved in this world.。
Listen, we're not wrong for wanting that.。
That's not a bad desire.。
You're not wrong for wanting for it.。
You're wrong in light of where you might be searching for it,。
which was the case for the nation of Israel in this moment.。
At the time that Hosea is prophesying here,。
the nation of Israel was being led by King Jeroboam II.。
On the surface, Jeroboam's reign was marked by。
prosperity and national security.。
He expanded the borders of Israel to a place that had not reached the same extent。
until the time of Solomon himself.。
He had great political prowess.。
He had successful military campaigns.。
But underneath it all, Jeroboam II did what was evil on the side of the Lord.。
He led the nation into idolatry for 40-plus years.。
What was the result of that?。
The people of Israel, they were searching for satisfaction in all the wrong places.。
They were looking for love and acceptance and approval in all the wrong places.。
They were worshipping at the feet of false gods instead of the one true God.。
They were gratifying their sinful desire as opposed to the desire of the Spirit.。
And what they found is they were, instead of investing in the renewal of their spirit,。
they were investing in the rejection of God's spirit.。
What's the point that Hosea is making?。
It's our second point.。
You reap in life what you sow in the soul.。
You reap in life what you sow in the soul.。
Let me explain what I mean.。
Several years ago, I was at the gym and I was training legs.。
Fellas, don't skip leg day.。
As I was doing it, I felt my back tweak.。
And so, being a wise and responsible adult, I put the weights down,。
picked up a yoga mat, and I said, "I'm going to stretch this thing out."。
So I make my way over, and I start to stretch everything out,。
and I feel fine by the end of it.。
I get in my car, I go home, I've got a couple of boxes to unload at the house,。
and as I'm putting these boxes down, I bend over to set one to the ground,。
and I went with it.。
My knees buckled, I found myself face down on the ground,。
and I genuinely could not move.。
I had fallen and I could not get back up, yet I had no life alert to save me.。
I army crawled my way into the house, where I laid on a couch, immobile, for three days.。
It was at that time that my wife, being the voice of wisdom,。
looked at me and said, "We should do something about this."。
"No, baby, it's going to be fine. Just let me sleep it off."。
"No, really, we should do something about this. I can't keep changing your clothes for you,。
because you can't bend over to pull your pants up."。
It was a moment of great humility.。
And so we went to the local urgent care.。
Walked in, they gave me a steroid shot, they also recommended physical therapy.。
I was back to 100%, so I went back.。
Ten months later, I found myself back on the ground.。
Why?。
Because I did not sow into my health.。
I didn't go to physical therapy.。
I didn't do my stretches.。
I didn't work on my mobility.。
I sowed into my hurt.。
I went right back to doing what I had always done.。
Listen, you cannot sow the same seed and expect a different result.。
You cannot sow the same seed and expect a different result.。
That's not how this works.。
If you want to experience more of God in your life,。
then you need to make different decisions in your life.。
So let me ask you, do the hard work of evaluating where you sit.。
I won't ask you to speak it out loud, but I do want you to speak it into yourself.。
What are you sowing into right now?。
Like, are you sowing into following that person's account?。
And all it's doing is reaping envy.。
Are you sowing into your success and all it's doing is reaping exhaustion?。
Are you sowing into that guy and all it's reaping is shame?。
Are you sowing into those friends and all it's reaping is regret?。
Are you sowing into control of your life and all it's reaping is anxiety?。
There are better things to sow into.。
There are better things.。
Things that may not produce what you want right now.。
Let's just get real.。
Things that we call spiritual disciplines are not immediately gratifying.。
They don't give you what you want right now,。
but they will give you what you want most.。
So sow into those things.。
That's how the author of Hebrews talks about it.。
He says in Hebrews 12, 11, "For the moment, all discipline seems painful,。
but rather than pleasant,。
but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness。
to those who have been trained by it."。
Church, there is a better seed to sow.。
Sow into your holiness.。
Let there be no concealed sin, but only confessed sin.。
And then repent of it.。
Like that thing which you walked towards because you thought,。
"Man, this is going to give me life. This is the source of joy."。
No, you realize it's not actually giving you any joy.。
Turn back and move towards that which will give you joy.。
Sow into your humility.。
Like pray to God.。
And not just prayers where God would be nice if you showed up,。
but prayers where God, if you don't show up,。
then there's going to be no plausible explanation。
for how I'm going to make it through this thing.。
I'm totally dependent. I'm lost without you, God.。
I'm fully and utterly hopeless unless you show up.。
He will show up.。
Invest, sow into your happiness.。
Not happiness from God,。
but happiness, the happiness of God.。
Pursue purity, not just in a dating relationship.。
I don't know where it kind of got sidetracked.。
This purity is only synonymous with dating.。
Purity is living a guiltless life.。
Give yourself a reason to live in such a way where you're above reproach.。
Don't just pursue personal purity. Walk in obedience.。
Believe that it's not just bad things that feel good.。
Good things feel good.。
And they leave you well rewarded.。
Celebrate life.。
Not life as the world knows it, but life as Christ has come to give it.。
And then sow into your hunger.。
God, I pray that this room would be characterized by that word most of all, hunger.。
God, we're hungry for you. We want for you, God.。
We have tasted and seen that you're good, and God, we want more.。
Give us more, please.。
Treasure his word.。
In his presence, find that he is as delightful as his word tells you he is.。
The decisions you make, they have the power to make you.。
Listen to me.。
But they also have the power to make us.。
That's what this is communicating in Hosea 10-12.。
It says, "For it is time to seek the Lord that he might reign righteousness upon you."。
You see, according to Hosea, the call to break up your hard-heartedness and to sow into the soil of your soul,。
it not only reaps the reward of your increasing nearness to God,。
but it also brings about his increasing nearness to us.。
That's what it's saying.。
It's saying, do all these things. Break up. Sow. Reap.。
"For it is time to seek the Lord," why?。
"that he might reign righteousness upon y'all."。
Yes!。
James 4-8 says, "Draw near to God and he will draw near to you."。
You may hear that and be like, "Yes, I know."。
But do you grasp the promise of that?。
Draw near to him. And he will.。
He will draw near to you.。
Like, you want for him, and guess what? He's already wanting for you.。
He will come near.。
Hebrews 11-6 says, "Whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists,"。
that he rewards those who seek him.。
Isn't that amazing?。
That as God sees you and you and you and you and you and you。
all pursue personal spiritual renewal,。
he actually brings about widespread revival.。
That as you come to him, he not only comes to you, he comes to us.。
And he produces that which we cannot produce.。
That which we can't awaken on our own.。
Which we can't birth through some kind of technique or some entrepreneurial strategy.。
That we can't stand up here and be so amazing enough。
that you're actually going to repent and revive,。
not just in a moment, but over the course of time,。
generating a movement which the halls of history will remember.。
We can't do that. I can't do that!。
Nor can I be expected to do it.。
God alone can do that.。
And the way he does it is he works through you。
in your individual renewal.。
It's time to seek the Lord, not settle for less.。
Your third point.。
It's time to seek the Lord and not settle for less.。
It's time to seek him, not casually like we were。
when we walked to the wrong gate at the airport.。
We had all the time in the world, but urgently,。
when we realized we were at the wrong gate and there was a different gate,。
that if we didn't make it there quickly, we were going to miss our opportunity.。
Because the right time to respond with urgency isn't after it's too late.。
I learned this lesson the hard way.。
When Brooke and I were dating,。
I was horrible at managing my time.。
I was awful at it.。
I often underestimated how long it would take to get to her place,。
and I would overestimate how long it would take me to drive there.。
And what it did is it produced a high frequency of apology.。
Like I found myself constantly looking at her saying,。
"I'm so sorry. I'm horrible at managing my time."。
You see, the issue there is I was acting in urgency,。
driving as fast as I could to get to her house after it was too late.。
The solution is acting with urgency before it's too late.。
Realizing that the time is now, and you should respond appropriately.。
The time to see God isn't after our present moment has passed,。
because God is moving right now.。
We have to seek him right now.。
"Porch, seek the Lord while he may be found.。
Call upon him while he is near.。
Porch, behold, I'm doing a new thing.。
Now it springs forth. Do you not perceive it?。
I will make a way in the wilderness, in rivers, in the desert."。
Friends, let me just ask.。
Haven't we settled for less long enough?。
Haven't we settled for less long enough?。
Like there's more on the table. Don't you want that?。
Don't you want a relationship with God that's more?。
That's more than just a faith of fact.。
But it's actually a faith of feeling.。
Like don't you want a relationship with God。
that's not just intellectually impressive or emotionally charged?。
It's experientially powerful.。
Don't you want that? I want that.。
That's why I'm doing this. We're preaching this.。
I remember when we, Brooke and I, made our way to Dallas, Texas to consider God.。
Would you even bring us here?。
Is this where you want us to go?。
You're doing a good thing where we are, God.。
I'm not just like ready to up and leave.。
Like I love where we're at. You're doing a good work.。
You're already moving there, God. Why would you bring us here instead?。
You must prove to me that it's here you're moving as well.。
And as I preached on the stage for the very first time,。
and I came back and I preached on the stage for the very second time,。
I found that God was moving here.。
And as I was processing that reality, God, you're moving.。
In that soft, still voice that the Spirit only speaks,。
I sensed Him say, "Kylin, you haven't begun to see me move.。
You have not begun to see me move.。
There's more in this room than you realize.。
But only I can unlock it.。
Call these people to me.。
Tell them that it's time to seek after me.。
And remind them I have already sought after them first."。
You see, we're convinced that we seek a God who has sought after us,。
for He sent Jesus Christ Himself.。
We break up our hard-heartedness,。
for Christ has come to give you a new heart,。
one that is worthy of protecting.。
We reap in life what we sow in the soul,。
for Jesus has reaped in death to save your soul.。
And we seek the Lord, not settling for less,。
for Christ sought you,。
because He wouldn't settle for anything less Himself.。
He wanted you.。
But I'm not worthy, Kylin.。
You are correct.。
You are not worthy.。
But He is.。
And by saving people who face the very worst of odds,。
He gets greater glory.。
He moves towards the people that do not deserve Him to move towards them,。
that we might be affirmed, "Yes, God, we need You.。
We cannot save ourselves.。
And, God, we want You.。
We want You because You would come for us."。
Let us be a people here at the porch that call out our need。
and call out our desire that You, God, and You, God alone,。
are worthy of seeking and we're willing to seek right now.。
It's time, porch, to take these things as serious as they are.。
It's time to believe beyond where we've been.。
It's time to make a change in our own lives.。
I will boldly ask you, if you will not make a change in your own life,。
then make some space instead,。
because I want this to be a room filled with people。
that are desiring after God,。
taking Christ's claims seriously,。
and walking in hot pursuit after Him,。
believing that, yes, life everlasting will be amazing,。
but life everlasting has come crashing into our present moment,。
and we can be a part of it.。
I don't want to simply look back and realize,。
"Man, the window was open."。
I want to realize that window was one I lived within.。
I don't want to look back with hindsight and say,。
"Man, God really moved there."。
I want to live into this moment and believe that,。
"Man, God and I were both there together.。
This is what's on the table."。
God, please, would You work in these people。
and bring them to a place where they take God, You, seriously.。
This message is imperfect.。
We, God, on this stage are imperfect,。
but God, You are so perfect.。
They do not need us. They need You.。
We, God, are not worthy of wanting,。
but You, God, are worthy of wanting.。
And God, I pray You would know here in this place,。
we hunger for You.。
We want for You, God.。
We see what You're doing across the globe,。
and we want it right here.。
We don't want to just look back, God, and see what You did.。
We want to live now, God, and experience it ourselves.。
At the right time, Christ, You died for the ungodly.。
It is our time to live for the only God worthy.。
It's to Your glory we pray, in Jesus' name, amen.。
Hey, porch, you can stand to your feet.。
We're going to go back into a little bit of worship,。
but some of you, you really need to work through。
and process whatever it is God is stirring up in you.。
Now is the right time to do it.。
Now is the time to break up the hard soil.。
We're here to help you do the work.。
We would love to pray with you if we can,。
but let this not be a moment where we feel awkward about making a move.。
He is on the move.。
Let us respond in kind.。
