[MUSIC PLAYING]。
Yeah, yeah, you know that lyric?。
That's some bad advice.。
Y'all were singing it.。
You were letting it wash over you, right?。
Not what was true and honorable and right and pure and lovely,。
whatever of good repute.。
If there's anything worthy of excellence or--。
anything excellent or worthy of praise,。
let your mind dwell on these things.。
That song, man, it just washes over you.。
And you're going to start to do this, don't you?。
We're young.。
The Bible says, man, the glory of young man is their strength.。
In other words, you think you're never going to die, man.。
We're going to put the sun out.。
I'm going to be around for a long time.。
And we are young.。
And we can burn bright.。
And we can burn long.。
And we can burn forever.。
And there is nothing to do but to light it up.。
Get it while you can.。
This is your 20s, man.。
This is just the practice round.。
Let's go around a few times.。
Let's not miss out now.。
We'll have a chance to settle down later.。
Ever heard that advice?。
Ever thought it?。
Are you living it?。
A lot of you are.。
Our buddy JP, I know him well, right?。
This was his story.。
You know, he kind of grew up around church in a cultural way.。
But then he went to college.。
And he drifted.。
Because when you're just around something。
in a cultural way, whatever culture you're around。
is going to jump on you.。
And it jumped all over JP, man.。
He was being totally influenced by it.。
He was letting a lot of alcohol run through him.。
And he was trying to run through everything。
he could put his hands on.。
And his life was a wreck.。
And after a week, man, he couldn't sleep.。
He was nervous.。
He was laying in bed.。
He picked up the phone.。
He called a friend.。
And he said, man, I am stressed out.。
I don't know what to do.。
I'm supposed to be having the time of my life.。
I'm doing all the things that people say will make you。
have the time of your life.。
What am I supposed to do?。
And the advice he got on the other end of that phone。
was this, man, hey, that's what we do, bro.。
This is the years.。
You go get it while you can.。
Treat yourself.。
Right?。
This is the day to live it up.。
You can grow up later.。
Right?。
You be a lug.。
You be a lesbian until graduation.。
And then you can go find you a man and raise the house,。
get you a little white picket fence.。
Ever heard that?。
It's worked its way into your vocabulary.。
And if there is any lie that is built into youth,。
it is I can get serious about my life later.。
Let me just tell you something.。
You ever heard the phrase, you've been around sports?。
You're going to play like you practice?。
I hear it all the time.。
You end up playing like you practice.。
We've talked about this.。
Some of the bad advice we've already discussed here,。
try it before you buy it.。
But what we don't know is when we experience intense pleasure,。
our body shoots off chemicals that literally hardwires。
our brain and all of our senses to be。
attached to certain behaviors.。
It identifies certain opportunities,。
certain experiences with intense pleasure.。
And our brain wants to run back to those things.。
We become hardwired because we are practicing this.。
We're practicing, practicing this。
is what you do to find pleasure.。
And bro, you just can't just switch that off.。
Because you have ingrained in your mind。
that is the way to roll.。
When you start to say, get it while you can, get it now,。
treat yourself, you ain't treating yourself.。
You are training yourself.。
That song, man, we're going to burn bright in the sun.。
We're never going to have any bad times.。
That song in itself already exposes its own lie.。
You ever listen to all the lyrics?。
He's talking about the fact that some other dude there。
in sunglasses is trying to move in on you.。
And the reason you're away from me。
is because I left a scar on you that hurts you.。
I ain't made it right yet.。
But maybe you'll get drunk enough tonight.。
And maybe when you just want to fall down, I'll be there。
and I'll carry you home.。
And then he wants to just sing that siren song。
one more time, I'll be that guy that'll help you。
get that life that you want.。
That song, that lie's been around for a long time.。
You scroll that back 30 years.。
And there was a song when I was your age.。
It was the summer before I came to really understand。
what I want to talk to you about tonight,。
about where life can really be found.。
And it's a song called "Only the Good Die Young," man.。
I'll play it for you in just a second.。
It's the idea that if you want to live a good life,。
if you don't want to get it while you can,。
if you don't want to treat yourself,。
if you want to be burdened by the religion。
and the laws of old,。
then you're going to die a young death.。
Over here, we're living it up.。
This is where the party is.。
This is where it's brighter than the sun.。
That lie's been around for a long time.。
Here's the way I heard it, okay, in the 70s.。
Check it out.。
All right, man, hey, I remember hearing that.。
I sung it, I sung it all summer long.。
I was convinced at that line,。
and Billy Joel writes in there,。
"Come on, Virginia," is the reason he chose that name.。
That little stained glass curtain you're hiding behind,。
all right, he's saying, "You got to come out。
"where the sun really shines, where the sun is.。
"You're getting muted sunlight.。
"You're being lied to.。
"Come on, Virginia, get on out here where life is."。
That song's been around for a long time.。
You wanna know how long?。
Not just 30 years ago, thousands of years.。
And if there is a loving father,。
he would do everything he could。
to put a new song in your heart.。
See, this is what happens when you really understand。
who God is and that he's not trying to rip you off,。
he's trying to set you free.。
It changes your tune, man.。
It changes the way you roll,。
and you're not gonna go get you some.。
You're gonna go get all you can of where real life resides.。
Can I just tell you something, man?。
Nobody looks at you and thinks you're a fool。
because you're being seduced by the things。
that you're being seduced by。
because that is the story of humankind,。
and it's especially the story of youth.。
If there's a verse in my Bible。
that I have seen evidenced again and again。
in the lives of men and in my life, it's this.。
It's in Ecclesiastes chapter eight, verse 11.。
It says this, "Because the sentence against an evil deed。
"is not executed quickly, therefore the hearts of men。
"among them are given fully to do evil."。
In other words, you get away with something,。
you go, that didn't really hurt, or that wasn't too bad,。
or it hadn't stung enough yet,。
and so you just go back for more,。
and you think that, hey, I think I'm gonna be the one。
that gets away with this.。
I'm gonna be the one that does party now,。
and I will grow up later.。
This is just the practice round.。
Actually, it's not even the practice round.。
I'm not training for anything.。
This is recess, and it's time for me to play.。
I'll grow up later, but what you don't understand。
is that you are growing into something。
that you're not gonna like.。
I love, you know, different signs that you see。
around when you're driving.。
You know, I can remember, my buddy and I。
were driving through Arkansas one time.。
We were in this little, little town, and it said,。
you know, such and such Arkansas, home of Jim Bad News Brown,。
or Jim Bad News Barnes, rather,。
and we thought, that is hilarious.。
We have no idea who Jim Bad News was.。
We literally, in this little town in Arkansas,。
drove to what you would imagine is there,。
like this little, you know, like malt shop,。
barber shop kind of thing.。
We walked in, and we go, who's Jim Bad News Barnes?。
And they go, oh, you know about Bad News?。
And some five old men in the corner。
started talking about Jim Bad News Barnes,。
how amazing he was.。
They go, was Jim Bad News still living?。
They go, no, but his mama does,。
so we went over to Jim Bad News Barnes' mama's house,。
(congregation laughs)。
it's the first time I ever had fried green tomatoes.。
We just knocked on the door, literally,。
just to make an experience, we knocked on the door,。
we go, we understand Jim Bad News Barnes used to live here,。
and she goes, yes, he did, and she opened the door,。
showed us all the pictures, all the newspapers she had cut,。
I had to play in the NBA way back in the day。
before I even knew about it, for the Celtics,。
and we sat down there, we had fried green tomatoes,。
and laughed with this woman,。
and just talked about how amazing,。
now, she lives in a town that's well-known。
because of her son who grew up there.。
I love street signs, I love town signs,。
I always read 'em, I saw one, no kidding,。
one time, it said this, it said, it was a gas station,。
it said, we sell Mexican food,。
we have gas on the exact same sign, right there.。
(congregation laughs)。
I go, how obvious is that, right there, okay?。
There's a street sign I've never seen。
'cause I've never been to Alaska,。
but the street sign says this,。
when you leave certain parts of cities in Alaska,。
especially as you move towards the colder months,。
which there's a lot of 'em up there。
if you haven't paid attention to your world geography,。
once cars start to travel, what they do is they make ruts,。
and from town to town, you literally get in a rut,。
and you drive in that rut from one town to another。
until you get to a turnaround, you come back,。
and so, this rut goes to this town,。
this rut goes to that town,。
and so, there's all kinds of signs that says,。
choose your rut wisely, you'll be in it。
for the next 60 miles, the next 200 miles,。
the next 50 miles, let me just tell you something,。
it's a lie that you can jump the rut.。
This, treat yourself, this, get it while you can,。
this is, I'll grow up later,。
what you're doing is you're jumping in a rut,。
and some of you guys will sit there,。
and you'll go, how did I get here?。
Why can't I turn this around?。
Now, I'm gonna tell you tonight,。
about a God who will restore the years。
that the locusts have eaten,。
and though your sins are red as scarlet,。
he'll make them white as snow,。
but you gotta start dealing with some of the lies。
that you've listened to,。
there's another verse in Scripture that says this,。
it says that we should encourage each other,。
day after day, as long as it's called today,。
so we won't be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.。
Part of the deceitfulness of sin,。
is that we think we're gonna be the one。
that plays with it, not get owned by it.。
We're gonna be the one that thinks we can beat it.。
We're gonna be the one that thinks。
that it's not gonna grab a hold of us,。
and train us, till we become somebody。
we never thought we'd be.。
I told you, these songs have been around for a long time.。
You guys know who Homer is?。
Not Simpson, all right, all right.。
The one who wrote the Iliad,。
that book you didn't read in high school,。
remember that, or college?。
That Homer.。
He wrote about Ulysses, or Odysseus, right?。
And even the ancient Greeks understood。
there are certain siren songs,。
you remember that little part of that mythological part。
of Odysseus' story, where every man that sailed。
by this island, where those three sisters were,。
whose song was so amazing, and so sweet,。
and so seductive, that they couldn't help。
but navigate their sails, and turn the rudder,。
so that their ship would sail towards that beautiful song,。
and life after life was lost there,。
because every ship was wrecked on the jagged reefs。
that were there in that bay,。
where they thought they were sailing to life,。
but they knew they were sailing to death.。
Can I give you the antidote to the siren song。
of fun, of Billy Joel?。
You guys remember what Odysseus did?。
He wanted to hear the song, which was a bit foolish,。
but at least he had the sense to tie himself to the mast.。
He had all the other men on his ship。
put wax in their ears to prohibit them。
from listening to this seductive song。
that ruins the lives of men, and he said to them,。
no matter what I say to you,。
you do not cut me off that pole.。
You strap me to the mast, until we get past that harbor。
to the other side.。
Don't you listen.。
You better make sure that your mind is not perverted。
by what is not true, what is not honorable,。
what is not right, what is not pure,。
what is not lovely, what is not worthy of praise,。
that isn't excellent.。
You gotta put wax in your ears on that stuff,。
or you're gonna keep sailing towards it.。
It's amazing, man, we know that song。
is the reason I kinda played that before we came out here.。
Those songs are seductive, and we don't know it,。
but it's just moving us towards this idea。
that God's not good.。
If God was good, he'd let me run on over there。
to where all my friends are, higher than the empire.。
And it's a lie.。
And I've lived long enough to see it.。
You guys know that a number of years ago,。
we started putting on the packages of cigarettes.。
We didn't used to do that.。
The tobacco industry had a major grip on our economy,。
and the lobbyists of the tobacco industry。
were major informing the way Congress made laws,。
and eventually, when they showed。
the addictive power of nicotine,。
they started to put on cigarette packages。
warning labels that said, hey, man, listen,。
this could cost you your health,。
and maybe even your life, you remember that?。
Most of us didn't grow up in a smoking generation.。
I did, my parents smoked when I was young.。
Almost everybody did.。
In cars, unfiltered cigarettes.。
My grandfather, I hardly ever remember him。
without a cigarette in his mouth.。
But let me just tell you, man,。
the addictive nature of tobacco is overwhelming.。
It's unbelievable, it ruins,。
and I'm looking for just pieces here to walk you through it.。
Person after person, there's not an aspect of your body,。
not a single organ that isn't affected by it.。
There are little hair-like creatures on your lungs。
that move like this, and the tar and the nicotine。
clogs them up, and it keeps the healthy part of your lungs。
from trapping the poisons and the toxins。
that you're exposed to, that ultimately,。
because it can't clean it, cancer sticks to your lungs.。
Still, 90% of all lung cancer patients,。
it's still the number one cause of death in our country。
from cancer is lung cancer,。
and 90% of lung cancer patients are smokers.。
Here's a picture of a healthy lung, right here.。
The little black specks are just what happens。
when you live in the city.。
It's a lung, a healthy lung from a city。
that's pollution that happens.。
This is the picture of a smoker's lung.。
Look at that.。
Now, you look at that white part,。
you go, well, there's still some part。
that's not contaminated.。
That's cancer.。
That's what killed 'em.。
And you look at that, what's so amazing is people go,。
well, man, I don't inhale.。
Even if I inhale, I'm exhaling all of it.。
Do you know that when you take in a cigarette,。
when you exhale, 90% of the smoke that you inhale,。
no matter how much you did, 90% of what you inhaled。
is not exhaled.。
It sticks in you, and it creates a corrosive element。
not just to your lungs, but to every part of your body.。
And people go, I'll just smoke for a little bit,。
I'll get rid of it, and then there's addictive nature。
to the behavior, just as addictive as heroin.。
And so eventually, we just started to warn people,。
you best not mess with that,。
even if it makes you look cool when you're young.。
Probably not as many smokers here as there used to be,。
but those of you that smoke know about the addictive nature,。
and some of you guys go, who will smoke?。
That's just nasty.。
But you know, every generation's got its cigarettes, man.。
This generation's cigarettes is just, hey,。
same sex experimentation.。
Just kinda everybody does it.。
I'll just jump off that little track later.。
Or who knows what it might be.。
But it's out there, and it's alive.。
This song's been around a lot longer than Homer.。
About 400, 500 years before Homer,。
there was another little piece of literature。
that was written, it's called Proverbs.。
Proverbs I love because it is written to fools like me,。
and they're short, and they're easy to follow.。
Listen to Proverbs chapter one, are you ready?。
The Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel,。
to know wisdom and instruction,。
to discern the sayings of understanding,。
to receive instruction in wise behavior,。
righteousness, justice, and equity.。
Man, that's good stuff right there.。
To give prudence to the naive, the impressionable,。
those who think they've got it all figured out。
who don't need help from anybody.。
To the youth, knowledge and discretion.。
A wise man is gonna hear and increase in learning,。
and a man of understanding will acquire wisdom.。
That's the job of a young man or young woman,。
is to become wise.。
The word wise means skilled in living.。
If you're not skilled in living, you're in trouble.。
When you get around kids, kids don't know the difference。
between a rope and a snake, a curb and a cliff.。
And they need somebody to protect them.。
And I'm just telling you, when you're young,。
you think you've got it all figured out,。
that previous generations jacked the stuff,。
and maybe they got away with it,。
or it looks like they got away with it,。
but I'm gonna get away with it.。
Now's recess.。
I'm not training for anything, I'm just having fun.。
It says to understand a proverb and a figure,。
verse six, the words of the wise and their riddles.。
I love that, the words of the wise and their riddles.。
I love riddles.。
And what it's saying is, sometimes,。
what it means to live a skilled life。
is like a riddle to some people, you don't understand it.。
Sometimes you hear older people say things,。
and you kind of cock your head like a dog。
who's hearing a strange noise,。
you can't really figure it out.。
Even in Proverbs, when you go and read,。
in Proverbs chapter 14, it says that,。
it says, "Where the oxen are,。
"where there are no oxen, the manger is clean.。
"But much increase comes by the strength of the ox."。
And you're kind of like,。
that's not like something my dad would say,。
it makes no sense to me.。
It's a riddle, and what it basically talks about is,。
hey, if you want a nice, clean, exact life。
with no trouble, no manure laying around, okay,。
then don't have any oxen.。
Be an inflexible person who likes everything。
in its perfect order and doesn't have your life interrupted.。
But here's the thing, oxen produce a lot of good.。
But relationships are messy, friendships are messy,。
community is messy.。
And if you don't want any messes,。
then just go ahead and isolate yourself.。
But much increase comes from the strength of an ox.。
It's like a riddle.。
Don't you love riddles?。
I love riddles, right?。
I ask my kids all the time, hey, hey, kids,。
you know what happens when you throw a white hat。
into the Red Sea?。
And they go, I don't know.。
What happens, y'all know?。
It gets wet, that's the answer, all right?。
So you're too smart for yourself, you overthink, right?。
But I love riddles like this one.。
So I like to ask my kids this one.。
What's so delicate that even saying its name will break it?。
That's right, I heard it, silence, silence.。
How about this one?。
What is something that you throw away the outside。
and you cook the inside, then you eat the outside。
and throw away the inside?。
I'll give it to you again, you ready?。
I love riddles.。
You throw away the outside, you eat the inside.。
Excuse me, you throw away the outside, you cook the inside,。
then you eat the outside and throw away the inside.。
Ear of corn, isn't that good?。
I like that one, yeah, yeah, yeah.。
All right, here's a good one, all right?。
This is one because, yeah, you're like,。
(growling)。
Should've known that, should've known that, right?。
That's what you're gonna say when you're 35, all right?。
And you got scars and your lungs are nasty,。
you go, I should've known that。
because somebody told you the answer to the riddle.。
It seems so obvious, doesn't it?。
Once you know the answer to a riddle,。
that's why you murmur, it seems so stinking obvious.。
Like, look, man, all of us,。
you ever watch that spelling bee?。
Those kids that get those words right。
and they know all the word words。
and all that different stuff?。
I mean, there's one, somebody asked me this one time。
at a stump, they go, hey, what word, I guarantee you,。
what word in the English language。
is always spelled incorrectly?。
Incorrectly, that's exactly right, all right?。
It's always spelled that way, every time,。
even those kids in the spelling bee,。
they spell it incorrectly.。
I love riddles, all right?。
Let me tell you something, life is a riddle.。
And until somebody, until somebody gives you the answer, man,。
it's gonna mess with you and jack you up.。
Now, I want you to watch where Proverbs goes next.。
Because the way you answer this one question,。
like, why are you here, where are you from?。
Who created you, is there a creator, is he good?。
How do I get the most out of life?。
Where is life really?。
How you answer that question。
is the most important thing about you.。
Look what Proverbs 1 goes on to say.。
Man, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.。
That's even a riddle because you think, man, fear,。
I don't wanna be scared of it, no, listen,。
here's what I'm gonna tell you,。
I do my job in the next few minutes.。
You'll have a proper fear of the Lord.。
And what I mean by that is you'll respect him,。
you'll know him for who he is,。
and you'll be somebody that goes,。
I don't wanna miss another word。
that comes out of his mouth.。
If it is true that he is a sun and a shield,。
that he gives life and light, okay?。
Everybody else is just saying,。
hey, we're trying to be brighter than the sun.。
That's what people have always done.。
I don't need God, I'll be my own God.。
God is a sun and a shield.。
He is a provider of life.。
He causes things to grow, he gives light and direction,。
and he is a protector.。
He gives, watch this, grace and glory.。
When you think about God, this is Psalm 84, 11.。
When you think about God, what do you think of?。
If you don't think about God as a gift giver,。
that he gives you stuff you don't deserve, that's grace.。
And he gives you, watch this, glory, not momentary beauty.。
That youth promises will please you forever.。
No, it fades.。
God gives you glory.。
I tell my little girls, man, you pursue true beauty.。
Bodies deteriorate, persons develop.。
God wants to make you glorious and beautiful。
so that others look at you, not just in your 20s,。
in your best times.。
He wants people to look at you for decades。
and just go, that is a life, that is a man.。
If we multiply that kind of human,。
this would be a better place.。
Not if I could get that human to do what I wanna do。
for a second, it would give me pleasure.。
But God just says, hey man, I wanna give you life.。
I want you to be a life giver to others.。
I don't want you to seek pleasure from other people.。
I want you to find the pleasure that is in me.。
And you are, when you become convinced。
that that's who God is, that he's not looking。
to rip you off, but looking to set you free,。
you're gonna be like this every time he speaks.。
Tell me more of God.。
What's he give?。
He's given more grace, more glory.。
I want more of that.。
Watch this, the next verse in Psalm 84 says this.。
No good thing does he withhold from those who love him.。
What's the bad advice tonight?。
The bad advice tonight is get it while you can.。
Treat yourself, go get what the world has to offer.。
I'm telling you, the world is lying to you.。
The song's always been sung.。
From Homer's time to my time in the '70s。
to your time in the teens.。
And there's always been a loving father。
who wants to say this to you.。
Watch this.。
Hear my son, my daughter, your father's instruction.。
This is verse eight.。
Do not forsake your mother's teaching.。
Indeed, there are graceful, watch this,。
a graceful wreath to your head。
and ornaments about your neck, my son,。
if sinners entice you, and they will.。
Their songs are everywhere.。
Do not consent.。
Now watch this.。
Tell me, see if your father in heaven。
understands the siren songs you hear.。
I hear 'em all the time.。
If they say, come with us, let us lie and wait for blood,。
let us ambush the innocent without cause,。
let us swaddle them alive like sheol,。
even whole as those who grab 'em at the pit,。
we will find all kinds of precious wealth.。
We will fill our houses with spoil.。
Throw in your lot with us.。
We shall all have one purse.。
(laughing)。
Right?。
Just, whenever I read that, I read it。
with that kind of build, and it's like I see a pirate.。
He's like, let's go rape the women.。
Let's go get the booty, right?。
Pirate's booty.。
And let's, you know, let's go.。
And I read that, I'm like, yeah, man,。
that looks like the ship to sail with.。
Those guys don't have to really work.。
Everybody thinks they're cool.。
They make movies about 'em.。
Everybody wants to be Johnny Depp.。
And you're like, gosh, you know, should I go?。
Right, every time I read that, I get that.。
Let me just, just for a second,。
let me just take you over and leave this metaphor。
for a second, let me show you an amazing section。
of scripture here in Proverbs chapter seven.。
Watch, this one's a little bit more seductive.。
It uses seductive language.。
I mean, you read this, you're almost like,。
gosh, I'm not even sure I should read this.。
First of all, we'll set it up.。
Proverbs seven, verses one through four.。
My son, keep my words.。
Think of a pleading father who loves you,。
who's not trying to rip you off.。
He's trying to keep you from that disease,。
from that being used for a moment and discarded.。
Treasure what I'm saying to you.。
Keep my commandments and live.。
And my teaching is the apple of your eye。
at the center of your thought.。
Bind them on your fingers.。
Write them on the tablet of your heart.。
Say to wisdom, you are my sister,。
and call understanding your intimate friend.。
Why, watch this.。
That wisdom and understanding will keep you。
from an adulteress, from that beautiful,。
dark-skinned woman who flatters with her words.。
For at the window of my house,。
I looked out through my lattice.。
I see it happen every day.。
I saw among the naive and discerned among the youths。
a young man lacking sense.。
Passing through the street near her corner,。
he takes the way to her house.。
In the twilight, in the evening, it's getting dark.。
He can move in the shadows, in the middle of the night,。
in the darkness, behold, here she comes,。
a woman comes to meet him, dressed as a harlot,。
beautiful, silky, cunning of heart.。
She is boisterous, rebellious, seductive.。
Her feet do not remain at home.。
She is now in the streets, now in the square.。
She lurks by every corner.。
She seizes him and kisses him.。
With a brazen face, she says to him,。
I was due to offer peace offerings today.。
That was my excuse to get out.。
Today I have paid my peace vows.。
Therefore, I've come out to meet you,。
to seek your presence earnestly.。
I love you.。
You're what I need.。
You can make me happy.。
I have found you.。
I have spread my couch with coverings,。
with colored linens of Egypt.。
I have sprinkled my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.。
This is kind of like, you know,。
Proverbs 7 porn is what this is.。
I'm not kidding.。
And you watch this, here it goes.。
Come, let us drink our fill of love until morning.。
Let us delight ourselves with caresses,。
for my husband is not home.。
He has gone on a long journey.。
He has taken a bag of money with him.。
At full moon, he will come home。
with her many persuasions, I guess.。
She entices him.。
Come, get it now.。
With her flattering lips, she seduces him.。
See, this is where most of us just kind of go。
to a blackout phase.。
And we get lost in the fantasy。
of how amazing it would be to be pursued。
by that beautiful woman.。
We've imagined her time after time.。
Each time we do, we have chemicals that fire in our brain。
that hardwire us to want her more.。
We put these images before us and we fantasize。
until finally we go out and we numb ourselves。
and drink so that we can be a little bit less discerning。
so that we can move towards her,。
maybe in that bar and be as high as an empire building.。
And then maybe we can just have a little bit of that light。
when God all the time is saying, I am your son.。
I am your shield.。
Listen to me, watch this.。
Look at what happens 'cause I wanna wake you up.。
'Cause the story's not over when she arches her back.。
This is the truth.。
Suddenly he follows her.。
As an ox goes to the slaughter or as one in fetters。
to the discipline of a fool.。
Until an arrow pierces through his liver, that is fatal.。
As a bird hastens to the snare,。
what kind of bird does that?。
So he does not know that it will cost him his life.。
Now therefore my son, listen to me.。
Come up out of your little pornographic imaging。
about how pleasant it will be.。
Pay attention to the words of my mouth.。
Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways.。
Don't stray into her paths for many are the victims。
she has cast down and numerous all her slain.。
Her house is the way to hell.。
Descending to the chambers of death.。
Another proverb early on says,。
you will be reduced to a loaf of bread.。
He goes, he does not know that the dead are there.。
But she is seductive.。
Come treat yourself.。
Back to Proverbs one of the pirates, look at this.。
Verse 15, my son, little interlude,。
do not walk in the way with him.。
Keep your feet from their path.。
For their feet run to evil, they hasten to shed blood.。
Indeed, it's useless to spread the bait of net。
in the sight of a bird.。
Birds have more sense.。
Bird brains, small brains have the sense。
to not go near a net.。
People who go there, they lie in wait,。
who live like this, they lie in wait for their own blood.。
They ambush their own lives.。
They're ruining their own lives.。
I know it looks like they're having fun.。
I know the commercials say they're having fun.。
I know it looks like Vegas is having fun.。
But the dead are there.。
So are the ways of everyone who gains by violence.。
It takes away the life of its possessors.。
That's just a dad trying to, you know what the son said?。
Not dad, not me, it won't take my life.。
Let me just show you some pictures of some of your friends。
maybe that are out there.。
And this is one that had a big night on the town。
and it didn't go exactly like they wanted, okay?。
'Cause they were busted, they were popped, okay?。
They went out there, they were bumming the folks.。
They said, "Come on, man, play with me."。
And okay, there were some of the unlucky ones。
that had a little bit too much.。
They didn't have a designated driver.。
So they got arrested.。
So there's a little smirk, I'm 18, yeah, you got me.。
All right, so tonight I'm a perp,。
but I'm gonna party again.。
Let's keep reading.。
Verse 20, wisdom shouts in the streets.。
She lifts her voice in the square.。
At the head of the noisy street, she cries out, man.。
Or at the porch on Tuesday nights, she cries out.。
And at the entrance of the city gates,。
she utters her sayings.。
How long, oh, naive ones, will you love being simple-minded。
and scoffers delight themselves in scoffing。
and fools hate knowledge?。
Turn to my reproof.。
This is what we're doing here tonight.。
Turn to the reproof.。
Behold, I will pour out my spirit on you.。
I'm not mad at you, sweetie.。
I'm not mad at you, son.。
I just don't want you to give yourself to the harlot。
'cause I know where that will lead.。
Come, and by the way, expand this.。
Expand this well beyond just physical intimacy。
with somebody who's not your spouse.。
This is any air, it is any voice that says,。
God doesn't have your best interests in mind.。
Come on, man, you don't need that old-time religion.。
No, you don't need old-time religion.。
You need the ancient of days who is a loving father。
who wants to make all your ways peace,。
who wants to train you up in godliness。
so that guilt and shame and sorrow。
will not define your life.。
He wants to be a blessing to you.。
It's who God is.。
He's kind.。
Listen to what it says.。
How long will you love being simple-minded。
and scoffers delight?。
Turn to my reproof.。
I'll pour out my spirit on you.。
Verse 24, because I called, watch this,。
and you refused, because I stretched out my hand。
and no one paid attention。
because you kept sowing,。
and because you didn't reap,。
the hearts of men among you were given fully to do evil.。
This is what it says.。
You neglected all my counsel.。
You didn't want my reproof.。
Listen, this is Proverbs 1.。
This is God just telling you.。
This is the way it's gonna be.。
I'm not mad at you.。
You're free to make your own choices,。
but you're not free to choose your consequences.。
This is the law of the harvest.。
You reap what you sow.。
You reap more than you sowed,。
and you reap it later than you sowed it.。
There's a reason that you put that seed of evil。
in your life, and right away, it doesn't grow poison。
because it takes a while for it to germinate and die.。
And then eventually, it gets roots,。
and then it bursts up through the soil,。
and all of a sudden, it overtakes your house,。
and you're living underneath its shade,。
and it's feeding you things that are bitter.。
It takes time.。
You put one seed in the ground,。
it grows a whole plant of trouble.。
And God's just saying, listen,。
I tried to spare you from that.。
Watch this.。
You neglected my counsel, verse 25.。
You didn't want my reproof.。
Now, this is wisdom talking, not God.。
I will laugh at your calamity.。
I will mock at you when your dread comes.。
When your dread comes like a storm,。
and your calamity comes like a whirlwind,。
when distress and anguish come upon you, and they will.。
Then you will finally call on me on wisdom,。
but I will not answer.。
They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me.。
You're gonna be trapped.。
Watch this, because they hated knowledge,。
because they bought the lie, they took the bad advice.。
This is recess.。
I can grow up later.。
Because they hated knowledge, they did not choose。
to listen tenderly to a loving Father。
who wanted to protect them.。
They would not accept my counsel.。
They spurned all my reproof.。
Watch this.。
So they shall eat of the fruit of their own way,。
and be satiated with their own devices.。
For the waywardness of the naive will kill them,。
and the complacencies of fools will destroy them.。
Do you see that, guys?。
You gotta begin with the end in mind.。
It is a habit of highly successful people.。
It's habit number one.。
You gotta begin with the end in mind.。
And you know what youth do?。
The youth go, I'll worry about the end later.。
That is why it says, by the same author in another book,。
it is better to go to the house of mourning,。
Ecclesiastes 7, 2, than it is to the house of feasting.。
Because that is the end of every man,。
and the living take it to heart.。
It's why it says in verse four,。
the mind of the wise is in the house of mourning,。
while the mind of fools is in the house of pleasure.。
It's better to listen to the rebuke of a wise man。
than for one to listen to the song of fools.。
So you get to decide, man.。
You get to decide what the ingredients are。
that you put into the mixing bowl of your life.。
And God's not mad at you.。
Here's the thing, wisdom will mock you,。
but your heavenly Father is right here tonight.。
He's just saying, just stop, just stop.。
I am a God who makes all things new,。
but you've gotta stop throwing those things。
into the bowl of your life。
and wondering why you're miserable.。
You gotta stop asking me why the cake。
of your existence tastes this way.。
You gotta quit saying to me, why did I do this to you?。
I didn't do this to you.。
I gave you a recipe card。
that was gonna make life pleasant.。
This is Proverbs 22, four.。
Proverbs 22, four, one of the most amazing proverbs。
in all of the scripture, the reward of humility。
and the fear of the Lord are, watch,。
riches, honor, and life.。
See, what's the enemy told you, man?。
There's no life over there.。
You gotta listen.。
It's just the opposite.。
You know what some bad advice is?。
Go get you some.。
You know what some great advice is?。
Go get all of God's you can while you're young.。
Get him now while you still can enjoy.。
Oh, remember our friends that were trying。
to get us to go party?。
I know they got rung up and busted.。
Okay, they got out of jail.。
They went out and they partied some more.。
Well, the second time they got arrested,。
this is what one of 'em looked like.。
It goes on from there.。
Another one of our buddies, she got arrested again。
or he got arrested again.。
This is the second time he got busted.。
He was a three-time loser.。
This is what he looks like now.。
Oh yeah, there was another friend.。
We had a bunch of 'em.。
That was her and now she's that.。
She's probably out there tricking。
to get some of what she needs.。
Our sweet friend at 32, 37, now 38 was a rough year.。
Then we had this dear friend.。
Life got harder and harder for her.。
Wisdom mocked her.。
And then there's one more.。
This sweet thing.。
Between the first arrest and second arrest,。
was freebasing, got a little burned up,。
but that didn't stop her 'cause she was addicted。
and the synapses were there and she had to go back。
and got busted again after she experienced。
the horrors of going her way.。
Listen, you guys gotta begin with the end in mind.。
I'm just telling you.。
What you do is you always study the stories。
that are the exception to the rule.。
But you know why they're an exception to the rule?。
Because there is a rule.。
And there's a father up there who's just saying,。
look, I love you enough to tell you.。
I don't want your destiny to be guilt and shame.。
I want it to be riches, honor, and life.。
And the sooner you can get to it,。
the better it's gonna be for you.。
This is what the guy who wrote that book。
said at the very end of his life.。
And it's one of my favorite places to go.。
We already read in Ecclesiastes.。
I'm gonna go down to chapter 12.。
But Ecclesiastes chapter seven says,。
"It's better to go to the house of mourning。
"than the house of feasting。
"'cause it's the end of every man."。
I'm telling you guys, you oughta go。
and you oughta listen to people。
when they talk about what life was about.。
When lives come to an end, you wanna sit and go,。
what do I want my life to have been?。
Man, that guy was a party.。
Or do you want it to be that person。
was a source of good to me?。
And they kept me from destruction and sorrow.。
They were kind to me and they modeled for me a better way.。
They showed me that there was a better song to listen to.。
They, when everybody else was singing the songs of fool,。
they lived a life of faith.。
And I saw the blessing in this person's life.。
Do you know what the whole book of Ecclesiastes is about?。
The entire thing is about a guy trying to find life。
everywhere that he can.。
And at the end of his life, when he's tried everything,。
and the way I can describe the book of Ecclesiastes。
is this way, Solomon was the only guy。
that ran out of mirages before he ran out of money.。
What do I mean?。
Mirages are appearances that there's life somewhere。
because of a hallucination,。
because of the way light will play with you。
in certain heated environments。
where you think that there's gonna be。
some source of life up here.。
And the closer you get to it,。
you realize it was a mirage, it's not really there.。
Solomon chased wine, women, song, power, fame, position.。
He got it all, and after he chased。
every single mirage there was,。
he still had everything he needed.。
He ran the experiment for you.。
He lived it, and now he's gonna say,。
I've been going everywhere to try and find life.。
I'm going back at the end of my life。
where I was when I started at the beginning。
when my father told me that the Lord God。
is a sun and shield.。
This is the very end of his life.。
This is the last words of a dying man.。
This is the house of mourning.。
This is what he says, are you ready?。
Let's tune in.。
He says, "Remember the Creator," watch this,。
"in the days of your youth."。
It's not have recess, because recess is no fun。
when you don't live the way you should live.。
You come back with scars and scabs and sorrow,。
and you live with bullies,。
and you're isolated and you're alone.。
He's saying life is right here with your teacher。
and your master and your God.。
He's a good God.。
"Use the days of your youth before the evil days come。
"and the years draw near when you will say,。
"I have no delight in them."。
This is the truth.。
I'm gonna just tell you, there's all kinds of people。
that are gonna have recess, recess, recess,。
divorce, affair, addiction,。
and they're gonna make it through,。
and late in their life, they're gonna come to a moment。
where they go, this was crazy,。
and someone's gonna talk about the grace of God。
and they're gonna take it.。
And I believe if they genuinely take it,。
I think they'll be saved.。
I think much of their life will be wasted.。
But here's what you need to know.。
You have no idea how many of us in this room。
are gonna make it to be three score or more.。
God offers forgiveness to your repentance.。
He does not promise tomorrow to your procrastination.。
I today stood next to a hole。
that I put a 17-year-old in today.。
And I have no idea where your hole is gonna come,。
but it doesn't matter about where your hole's gonna come.。
You gotta decide when are you gonna grab life.。
When are you gonna want what God wants for you?。
He's not trying to rip you off.。
He's trying to set you free.。
I'm gonna tell you, by the grace of God,。
I am one of those strange people。
that when only the good die young was on,。
somebody said, let me just tell you, that's a lie.。
The good don't die young.。
People who die to themselves experience life.。
And I started to listen.。
And so from about 1979 on, man,。
I have been testing this book to see if it is true.。
And I'm here to tell you,。
some 40 years later almost,。
that there has never been a time。
when I have listened to a loving father。
who is a son in shield, who gives grace and glory,。
who no good thing does he deny those who love him.。
There's not been a single time I've listened to him。
that I've regretted it.。
I've missed out on some incredible enticing opportunities.。
I have missed out on the seductive words of foreign women.。
I've been in those environments.。
I have missed out on numbing myself in the face of pain.。
But you know what else I've done?。
I've grown to be a man.。
Do you know what happens, by the way,。
if you learn to numb your pain with meds。
or with alcohol?。
Here's what happens.。
You don't grow.。
You don't become the full measure of a person you should be.。
You stunt your maturity because instead of growing up。
and persevering and becoming the man。
that God intended to be, you stay stuck as a 17-year-old.。
You stay stuck as a 22-year-old,。
and you never grow through it。
because every time there's pain,。
you run and put the pacifier of medication in your life.。
And that is why you see so many immature 30-year-olds。
and 40-year-olds because they never grew。
beyond the moment they became addicted.。
Every time I feel sad, every time I feel lonely,。
every time I feel isolated,。
I go and I just click on that button.。
I watch a movie and I imagine I'm in there.。
Instead of learning to be a man,。
I just keep laying down pathways。
to what I think is pleasure, but it's not real pleasure.。
You stunt your growth and you stunt your development。
and you never grow to be the glorious person。
that God wants you to be.。
Don't go intoxicate yourself.。
That's what the scripture says.。
It says don't be drunk with wine for that is dissipation.。
It stunts your growth.。
It makes you less than the man or woman。
you're supposed to be,。
but instead be filled with the Spirit.。
And when you're filled with the Spirit,。
what's gonna happen is there's gonna be more love。
and goodness and gentleness and kindness。
and faithfulness and self-control.。
There's gonna be a measure of a man and a godly woman。
that people are gonna look at and go,。
"Who are you?。
"Who's your daddy?"。
And you get to say, "By the grace of God."。
I gotta tell ya, by the grace of God,。
it's the kindness of God.。
And I still have a hard time listening to my dad,。
but he has forgiven me and I'm learning to fear him.。
And what you're seeing in me that is beautiful。
is 'cause I've been tutored underneath his kindness.。
(congregation murmurs)。
Look, guys.。
Look what it says.。
This is Psalm.。
Let's just read it real quickly and we're done.。
He just says this.。
He goes, "Draw near to God."。
God is the God of the young.。
Can I just say this to you real quick?。
Psalm 23, "The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want."。
And then it goes on through and it talks.。
Everybody thinks it's a great psalm to read。
next to people who are on their deathbed.。
Psalm 23 is not written for old men on their deathbed.。
It is written for young shepherd boys。
who are facing bears and lions and giants.。
Psalm 23 is a psalm of a 20-year-old.。
And you gotta figure out, man,。
God is here to shepherd me through this time。
when all my insecurities and all my wonders。
and all my hormones are just firing。
and all my opportunities before me.。
And instead of wastering it。
and squandering it on loose living,。
Psalm 23 is saying, "Come here, man.。
I'm gonna walk you through the valley of the shadow of death。
when everybody else goes to play。
and they train themselves to die,。
I'm gonna train you to be a great daddy, a great mama.。
I'm gonna train you to have a successful marriage.。
I'm gonna train you how to be a glory to God。
and to your community.。
I'm gonna train you how to be a selfless leader, a warrior."。
That's Psalm 23.。
And God is calling you in.。
It's not there to read when you're on your deathbed.。
It's there to read when you are starting your life.。
And Solomon wants you to know it.。
He says this, "Don't wait till you're dead.。
Don't wait till you're weak。
before the sun and the light,。
the moon and the stars are dark."。
And what he's saying, "Before there's diminished light。
and hope and there's no hope for tomorrow。
and the clouds return after the rain."。
In other words, you're increasingly gloomy。
because you realize life is about to be over.。
"Don't wait to meet God then.。
He's a God of the young.。
In the day that the watchmen of the house tremble."。
That's the arms and the hands.。
They kind of watch the house like this。
and they're weak and you're old and you tremble.。
"Don't wait till the mighty men stoop."。
That's, these are the mighty men.。
That's what he's talking about right here.。
"Don't wait till they're weak.。
The grinding ones stand idle."。
Because there are a few, he was talking about,。
you know, he was talking about your teeth.。
There's not many of them.。
By the way, you want a riddle?。
I'll throw out a riddle for you.。
How do you know that the toothbrush。
was invented in Kentucky?。
Because if it was invented anywhere else,。
it'd be called the teeth brush.。
That's why, all right?。
No, okay.。
All right, back to here.。
All right, no, come on.。
If this is broadcast to Kentucky,。
just pretend I said Arkansas and here we go.。
All right, here we go.。
Come on, watch.。
Solomon's saying, "Don't wait till you lose your teeth."。
All right?。
Watch.。
He goes on to say,。
"When those who look through the windows grow dim,"。
he's talking about your eyes in a very poetic way,。
"and the doors in the street are shut."。
That's the street of light.。
The lips are shut because you're like this.。
"And the grinding mill is low.。
Your appetite is going away and no one will arise.。
And one will arise at the sound of the bird.。
Early in the morning, sleep is fleeting.。
The daughters of the song will sing softly.。
You can't hear anything.。
Furthermore, at that point in life,。
men are afraid of high places.。
You have a loss of vigor and tears in the road.。
The almond tree blossoms, your hair gets white.。
The grasshopper drags himself along.。
The back is hunched over.。
The caper berry is ineffective."。
Viagra.。
"For a man goes to eternal home。
while mourners go to the street.。
Remember before the silver cord is broken,。
the cord of life, the spinal cord,。
the golden bowl is crushed.。
The pitcher by the well is shattered.。
The wheel of the cistern, the heart,。
is not moving like it should.。
And the dust will return to the earth as it was。
and the spirit will return to God who gave it."。
Oh, vanity.。
How foolish to live your life apart from a God。
who wants you to have lived those last 60 years。
that now as you're sitting there scared,。
he wants those 60 years to look back on them。
and go, "Man, I was useful.。
I was loving.。
I was chased.。
I was powerful.。
I wasn't a victim to dogs and liars.。
I tied myself to the master truth。
and I did not wreck my ship。
and everybody that was on it with me."。
Don't you want that life?。
Then quit listening to the bad advice to treat yourself.。
And you learn to come after the one who loves you.。
Folks, that's some good advice.。
I'm here to tell you, I haven't done it perfectly,。
but every time I've done it, every time I've done it,。
it's been a blessing.。
I say it almost every time I'm here.。
First John 5:3, "This is the love of God。
that we keep his commandments。
and his commandments are not burdensome."。
Hey guys, I'm gonna tell you,。
man, there's always a backlash out there.。
There's always a moment you wake up。
and you sober up and you look over and you go,。
"Oh my gosh."。
There's always an unwanted something you're dealing with.。
When you walk with God,。
all your ways are peace.。
It doesn't mean that it's not gonna be trouble,。
but he's gonna say, "Listen,。
you're gonna have peace in the midst of trouble。
because you understand why there's trouble in the world,。
because people don't tie themselves to the mast of truth.。
And you're gonna run into some of them。
and they're gonna be cruel to you and mean to you.。
I'm gonna tell you not to yoke with them.。
I'm gonna tell them not to make them your companions,。
but be a friend to them.。
Friends love at all times.。
Friend, treat them as individuals, not as projects.。
And friends, speak the truth.。
You be a friend to those people,。
but you let me be your companion."。
So you want some good advice?。
Get God while you can, not it.。
Not some impersonal pronoun that wants to waste you on it.。
You get the lover who gives grace and glory.。
You get God while you can,。
wherever you can and you get all you can.。
You'll never be sated.。
You'll never loathe him.。
You'll learn to love him more and more.。
The beauty of walking with God is the longer you do it,。
the more you see the sweetness of his way.。
Some of you guys are seeing the bitterness of the other way.。
That's because you're serving a liar.。
And you're not gonna find anybody in this room。
that's been walking along with God。
that go, "He gets more and more bitter."。
They're gonna go, "He gets more and more sweet."。
And my life gets more and more。
full of riches and honor in life.。
And I'm ready for this life to end。
because it'll get sweeter still,。
where the rest of you are hoping you can hang on。
and that this bitterness that you're in,。
that this hell on earth will continue。
because if you're not walking with God,。
you need to know something.。
This is your heaven.。
So you get all the glory and fun and intoxication you can。
'cause it's never going to get better than this.。
If you know God and you're walking with him。
on this earth that isn't as it should be,。
this is your hell.。
It's only gonna get better.。
And while it's here, it's gonna get better。
'cause he's gonna give you purpose and meaning in life.。
Do you want some of that?。
Get all the God you can, wherever you can,。
as much as you can.。
That's some good advice.。
Father, I pray for my friends that they believe it,。
that they know it, they'd see this true.。
And Lord, I am sure there's some people in this room。
that right now are hearing from an enemy。
who wants to lie to them and tell them。
that maybe because they've listened to liars too long。
that you wouldn't want them.。
And I pray that they would see you。
for the kind God that you are.。
I pray that they would see you as the lover that you are,。
that your toes are at the end of the ranch。
and you wanna run to them.。
And all it takes is them just saying,。
but Lord, I have squandered my life on loose living。
and wine and women or whatever it is.。
I've been that woman, I've been that man。
that's tried to find life apart from you。
and I am sick and tired of being sick and tired.。
And Lord, when they come to you,。
I know they're gonna find grace and forgiveness.。
I know you say you're the God who,。
even though their sins are red as scarlet,。
will make 'em white as snow.。
I know that you say that you'll restore the years。
the locusts have eaten.。
We thank you, Father, that you can even relay tracks.。
You can help our mind not to be conformed to the world,。
but you can transform us.。
You can bring healing to our mind.。
It's gonna take some diligence, it's gonna take some work,。
but we can start to be people that listen to you.。
And by grace are restored.。
And by faith, we seek you because we know that you're good.。
And we reject the bad advice that your word's not true,。
that you don't have our best interest in mind。
and that disobeying you's not that big a deal.。
And we run to you and we fear that we would miss。
another word because we see your goodness.。
Father, I pray that that story be multiplied in this room。
and other rooms like this across the country。
time and time and time again,。
that we wouldn't stunt our growth and maturity。
by numbing ourself with fleeting moments。
of irresponsibility, but we'd be fully alive, fully awake,。
more deeply in love with you.。
Thank you, Father, that everybody in this room。
can come to Jesus, be forgiven, and grow,。
be healed, to God be the glory.。
- That's what we do here at the porch.。
We bless his name.。
We're just telling you the truth.。
When you bless, you speak well.。
That's what the word means.。
We speak well of God's name.。
There's so many of us, gang, who have walked,。
not just in the valley of the shadow of death,。
we have been death to ourselves.。
We've invited others into it.。
We've been those mockers.。
And while wisdom does laugh at you, wisdom is not God.。
Wisdom is God's, and that's why he's calling you。
and standing at the corner of the street saying,。
"Come, come.。
"If you're gonna dwell in the house of the Lord,。
"you've gotta come to it."。
And he is here, and the Father whose house you have left。
is ready to run to you.。
Some of you guys don't think you've walked。
through the valley of the shadow of death.。
Some of you guys are out there going, "I'm dead, Todd.。
"If you knew what I did, you wouldn't think。
"that I could come."。
No, you need to know something.。
God, I don't care if you're wrapped in grave clothes,。
he can say to you, "Lazarus, come out."。
He can call you right now tonight,。
and he's saying to you, "Come, be healed.。
"Though your sins are red as scarlet,。
"I can make 'em white as snow."。
You're not a lost cause.。
You're mine, you're lost.。
Come, find life in me.。
That's what Jesus says.。
That's what I have found.。
I have listened to the lies that only the good die young.。
You know you're dead.。
Will you let him breathe life into you?。
Those of you that know that there is life to be found,。
will you be a friend,。
and will you be companions to one another。
as you walk through the valley,。
the shadow of your 20s?。
You're not to do it alone.。
You're to do it with other people who sing。
of the goodness and mercy of God,。
who remind you that he's kind.。
We know it's hard.。
In this world, you're gonna have trouble,。
but take heart, he has overcome this world,。
and he can overcome your sin,。
and the scars, and the hard wiring.。
He can transform it, but you've gotta stop。
putting recipes of death in your bowl.。
He is the God of the young.。
He wants to shepherd you and rescue you.。
Will you come to him?。
There will be a team here and wherever you are。
to sit and visit with you.。
Would you come tonight and let us tell you。
about the goodness and mercy of our God?。
We love you, Ports.。
We love you, people who are listening.。
Come and find life with us in the goodness of God.。
Have a great night.。
