(upbeat music)。
- What's up, Porch?。
How we doing tonight?。
(audience cheering)。
Hey, it's great to see you.。
My name is Timothy Atik,。
and I am one of the teaching pastors here。
at Watermark on Sundays,。
as well as right here at the porch.。
I'm so glad you made it tonight.。
Hello to everyone in the room,。
as well as to everyone watching online。
at our Porch Live locations.。
I'm thinking about you, Porch Live Des Moines,。
Porch Live Tulsa, Porch Live Fort Worth.。
I am glad that you are tuning in tonight.。
I also know that there are many individuals。
just around the globe who are sitting in their apartment。
or their condo or their house tonight,。
watching by yourselves.。
If that's you, I'm so glad you're here as well.。
We are starting a new series,。
and it has the sexiest title。
that we have had in a long time.。
Here's the name of the series.。
It is called Prayer.。
(audience cheering)。
Yeah.。
That's not all.。
It's called Prayer, How to Talk to and Hear from God.。
That's the name of the series.。
So we are going to be in for the next four weeks.。
Here's the reason that we are calling it that.。
We did not want to get creative with this one.。
This is like, we want you to know。
this is what we're talking about.。
We are talking about prayer unapologetically.。
Like if there's anything that my hope,。
if there's anything I hope for you。
is that you would take a step in your prayer life.。
So if you don't pray,。
my hope is that you would start praying.。
If you pray sporadically,。
my hope is that you would start praying regularly.。
And if you pray regularly,。
my hope is that you would start praying constantly.。
Like my goal is that you would grow in prayer.。
I'll put it this way.。
When I was in college, I had a major and a minor。
at Texas A&M University.。
I majored in psychology,。
majored in psychology and minored in business.。
And the reality is, is in the spiritual life,。
our tendency will be to major in certain things。
and minor in other things.。
In my own life, what I've realized。
as I look back on the decades。
that I've been walking with Jesus。
is that without thinking about it,。
I majored in the word of God and minored in prayer.。
And the Lord changed that in my life.。
And I'm so glad that he did.。
But I don't want you to go another day。
majoring in something other than prayer.。
I want us to be a people who pray.。
Martin Luther, the leader of the Protestant Reformation,。
he said this, "To be a Christian without prayer。
is no more possible than to be alive without breathing."。
That is how important prayer is.。
So tonight, we're gonna start this series。
by having a conversation about prayer.。
And I figured that there was no one better。
to have a conversation about prayer with。
than my good friend, Jenny Allen.。
So if you will, welcome Jenny Allen。
to the stage tonight.。
(audience cheering)。
- Thanks.。
- Welcome to the porch.。
- I think there are probably better prayer warriors。
in the world, but I appreciate that compliment.。
I am really excited to be here.。
- I'm so glad you're here.。
So one of the reasons that I thought of Jenny。
is that her husband, Zach, and Jenny,。
and then my wife and I,。
we're actually in a prayer group together.。
So I know she prays.。
Because I'm in a group with her where we pray.。
If you don't know Jenny, Jenny and her husband, Zach,。
I don't know how long y'all been married.。
- A long time.。
- Great, you don't know how long you've been married either.。
So Jenny is the leader of really a movement,。
If Gathering, where really for almost 10 years now,。
she has led a generation of women.。
Truly millions of people around the world。
have sat under Jenny's leadership。
as she has provided resources and conferences。
that have helped disciple a generation of women.。
And I know that many of you have been impacted。
by her leadership.。
I am one of those people.。
I am not a woman, but I've still been impacted.。
- Thank you for that clarity.。
- Yes.。
More than that, I'm so thankful for Jenny's friendship.。
Her husband and her have just been a lifeline。
for my wife and I as we've moved to Dallas.。
And she is the real deal.。
Like what you see on the stage,。
that is who she is in a living room.。
And so thanks so much for jumping in tonight.。
I'm glad you're here. - Great to be here.。
- Jenny, I know that you have a huge heart。
for the young adults that are sitting in this room.。
And honestly, the young adults around the world.。
So I want them to hear your heart for them。
before we even jump in.。
What do you wanna share?。
- Yeah, I feel uniquely drawn to you guys.。
And I think one of the reasons。
is you have been incredibly zealous for God.。
There hasn't really been a lot of medium people。
I have met under the age of 28, 29.。
And I know some of you are above it.。
You can be medium.。
But most of the people I've met under 28, 29。
have just either not wanted God or they want God.。
And so just the fact that on a Tuesday night。
there are this many of you here as young adults.。
I know some of you are here to meet cute boys or girls。
and that's great.。
I highly recommend that pursuit.。
But I more highly know that there's a part of you。
that has a desire for God.。
Even those of you that maybe stumbled in the door。
and don't know God, there's a desire.。
And I think that desire comes from desperation.。
And that's the other reason my heart goes out to you。
is I see, just like you talked about last week, TA,。
I mean, it was so important and relevant。
for you to talk about that.。
That is tragic that that is relevant.。
That is tragic that the percentage that I saw。
that you shared.。
You're desperate.。
And yes, that's scary.。
And yes, there's some challenges that come with that.。
But when you're desperate,。
God starts looking really dear and really good.。
And I believe when you're desperate,。
God starts getting very real.。
And you crave Him and you want Him in a different way.。
So that's what I've seen as I've worked with。
a lot of y'all in the past.。
- That's great.。
Well, so we're talking about prayer tonight.。
And I know that you are a woman who prays.。
You're a praying woman.。
So I would just love to know, talk us through,。
what is your journey with prayer look like over the years?。
Like what have been the shaping forces in your life?。
Who and what has cultivated your prayer life?。
- So how many of y'all keep a journal?。
A lot of you, good.。
Then you probably are praying in that journal.。
And I did that a lot of my life.。
I currently don't do that any longer.。
They are called books in my life now.。
They're my journals that are published。
for a lot of people to read.。
And for years I kept journals.。
And at the beginning of, I would look back at my journals。
and at the beginning of all my journals as a young adult,。
it would always start with, I'm so sorry.。
Like that was the first line of every page。
when I would go back and look at it.。
And it would be because days would have gone by。
or possibly even weeks would have gone by。
and I hadn't quote met with God.。
And so I would say for a long time, I hated this subject。
because I always felt like I was failing in this subject.。
I felt like there was a mark and I wasn't hitting it.。
And therefore every time I came into God's presence,。
apparently in my journal, I felt guilty and I felt ashamed.。
And that's how I started every minute。
that I would begin to pray with God.。
- I totally resonate with that.。
Like I just said, I minored in prayers.。
So that guilt that you felt, like I can totally,。
I can look back and I'm like, I feel that.。
So if you and I have felt it, I would imagine that,。
I don't know if you've, anyone honest enough to say,。
yeah, I've felt that guilt before.。
- Yeah. - Yeah, a lot of people.。
- Which let's go into that for a minute.。
Because I'm really good at hijacking interviews.。
I'm gonna warranty it.。
Is this the first time you've interviewed me?。
- It is. - Watch out, let's go.。
(audience laughing)。
- Might be the last.。
I don't know, I don't know, we'll see, we'll see.。
- See where we're gonna go.。
So what I, here's what I wanna say about that,。
is how miserable to get in anybody's presence。
you feel guilty with.。
Like you don't want, you don't desire to go in.。
If you have a difficult relationship with your dad,。
if you think about that relationship,。
and you feel like whenever you're around him,。
he's being critical or you feel like he's,。
he's disappointed in you,。
you probably don't see your dad a lot.。
You probably don't pick up the phone and call him a lot.。
You probably don't wanna be with him.。
That's just human nature.。
So let me just give you kind of a little compassion for,。
that that many of you raised your hands。
and said that you feel guilty about your prayer life,。
that you feel guilty with God.。
That's really hard,。
because that then is not the person that you wanna go to.。
And I would say, looking back,。
at that time in my life,。
I didn't go to God a lot.。
The reason I was usually apologizing。
is because a week or weeks had gone by。
and I hadn't even talked to him.。
My prayer life, I'll fast forward,。
and then we'll fill in more.。
My prayer life now,。
and this is what I'm gonna advocate for you,。
it is completely different than journaling.。
And I'm not saying you shouldn't journal,。
and I'm not saying you shouldn't spend。
concentrated time in prayer,。
but my prayer life is constant.。
It is very rarely me on my knees for an hour.。
It is most often as I am going。
every minute throughout the day.。
Why?。
Because I really like God.。
I really like him.。
And I feel like he's with me all the time.。
And I also feel like I am missing。
99% of what is happening around me,。
if I am not asking him what is happening around me.。
And so there is just a constant,。
Lord, what do you want me to do here?。
What do you want me to say here?。
God, what do you want me to know。
about what was just said to me?。
How do you want me to react here?。
There is a constant conversation with God。
going through my mind all the time.。
Now, here's the thing about living that way,。
is it's just a little crazy.。
Like, it really is.。
If you really pray without ceasing,。
if you really are just God constantly,。
I'm with you, I know you're here,。
what do you want me to know?。
You are going through life a little bit,。
either talking to yourself。
or talking to somebody invisible.。
Now, I say that it should be obvious,。
but some of y'all just went like, yeah,。
I hadn't thought about that.。
I say that because I think as Christians,。
we don't talk enough about how absolutely crazy we are.。
Like how odd all of this is.。
Like, I hate talking about prayer and I rarely do it.。
One of the reasons I don't do it。
is because of the verse that says,。
don't be like the hypocrites that stand up and pray,。
but also I think talk about prayer.。
Like, just don't be someone that goes boasting about it。
or talking about it, like just do it.。
That's kind of what his point was.。
So I don't know that I've ever even talked about prayer。
really in this deep of a way.。
That's one reason.。
The other reason is because there is nothing worse to me。
than thinking that prayer is boring。
or that prayer has to be done a certain way。
or that there is a script for prayer or that this,。
now granted, Jesus said, this is how you pray.。
There is just a short little script,。
but I think the point of the script that he gave。
was to give direction and to show the things。
that we are to bring to him, which is everything.。
It's to wrestle out life with him.。
It is the sin that we're carrying。
and the sin of other people.。
He built a model of just bring it all, bring it all.。
Bring what you need, bring what you want,。
bring what you're struggling with, bring it all.。
That's the Lord's prayer.。
We can put it up in a minute.。
But outside of that, it's supposed to be a relationship.。
And for so long, I believe we've set prayer。
as this thing that we're all supposed to do.。
And I remember I was with a girl once。
and she was going through so much.。
And honestly, she was a girl that I was discipling.。
And so we met a lot.。
We met every week or so.。
And it was just kind of the same story every week,。
like the same struggles every single week.。
And so I would ask her every week,。
are you praying about this?。
And she would say, yes, I'm praying about it.。
And finally, I said this instead.。
I said, are you forming words to God about this?。
She stopped.。
She was like, no.。
So whatever her definition of prayer was,。
probably was more like worry.。
It probably was more like stewing and thinking,。
but it probably wasn't prayer.。
And so my hope tonight is,。
and we're gonna go into this a little deeper,。
but my hope tonight is you leave tonight。
and you are running to your car to talk to him。
because you're free again,。
'cause you're not so burdened and bogged down。
by the way your relationship has been.。
See, prayer is just talking to God.。
That's all it is.。
And so it's not about prayer.。
It's about your relationship with God.。
It's how safe are you with him?。
How much do you want to share what just happened with him?。
How much do you wanna talk to him?。
That's, how much do you need him?。
In fact, that's probably the most common time I pray,。
is when I experienced that.。
- Yeah.。
So one of the things that you said,。
and I can't remember exactly how you said it,。
but it's hard to be in the presence of someone。
you feel guilty being with.。
But now I hear you saying you really like God.。
- I do. - So if you're gonna spend,。
if you're gonna talk to him constantly,。
like you're gonna have to really like him.。
So one of the things a common friend of ours,。
Doug Sherman, said to me once,。
and I've shared it here before,。
but he said, "Your view of God。
"determines your response to God."。
So you cannot, if you don't have the right view of God,。
it's gonna be really hard to talk to him constantly.。
And so I think that's why Jesus tells us。
in the Lord's Prayer, how do we start our Father?。
You have to have a view of God as Father。
that is someone that you wanna draw near to regularly.。
So I'd love to just hear, what is your view of God?。
Just unpack that.。
When you think about, when you say, "I really like him."。
- Okay.。
- This question is not on here.。
- Let's go.。
I'm gonna pull up a verse.。
I think the problem with us in prayer。
is that we don't believe God.。
And we're missing the fact。
that this is supposed to be a supernatural exchange。
about supernatural things that are happening all around us.。
And because we look at the natural。
and we look at each other。
and we look at the problems that we're facing。
and we look at the lack of our lives。
and we look at what we don't have that we wish we had,。
because we're looking at the natural,。
we miss the whole purpose of prayer,。
that it is supposed to be about things that are wholly other。
that we can't even imagine。
that are happening all around us all the time.。
And this makes me think of Luke.。
In Luke 10, Jesus has sent out the disciples。
for the first time and he's said,。
"Hey, I want you to go and I want you to heal。
"and I want you to preach。
"and I want you to do this in pairs。
"around everywhere and here's how I want you to do it."。
And it's a fascinating passage。
because he goes into basically discipleship,。
this is how you're gonna go out and do the mission of God.。
This is how you're gonna go out and do my work.。
He's preparing them and they come back。
and this is what they say.。
There were 72 of them and they returned with joy saying,。
"Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name."。
And he said to them,。
"I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven.。
"Behold, I have given you authority。
"to tread on serpents and scorpions。
"and over all the power of the enemy。
"and nothing shall hurt you."。
That is the power that you have with God.。
The reason you don't pray is you don't believe。
that powerful things can happen through you and around you.。
You're bored, you're bored with God.。
We get bored with what he thinks he has for us。
and what he wants from us.。
And so we miss the super,。
we miss all of the exciting stuff。
that actually could be happening。
if we would just say, "Hey God,。
"what do you want me to make of this?。
"What are you doing here?。
"How do I enter this situation?"。
And let me tell you how it works, the exchange.。
It is not what you think.。
It's things like turning the other cheek。
instead of having the last word.。
It's these ways that are so mysterious。
but yet through those ways, God changes the world.。
But because we don't believe that prayer changes anything,。
doesn't change us, it doesn't change the world,。
all of it's hopeless,。
then we don't ask for anything to change.。
And so we live bored and stuck and apathetic。
and we don't know why.。
And I guess I wanna get to the heart of why we don't pray。
because I think that if you did pray, you'd love praying。
and it wouldn't be a problem。
because you'd watch God move around you.。
I mean, that's me.。
When I was thinking on the way here,。
I was like, how do I even put into words。
how I view God and why I love prayer?。
Because it's the most exciting thing in the world。
to work with God.。
It changes every conversation.。
It changes every room.。
It changes every assignment that God has put in your life.。
It changes absolutely everything.。
And so all of a sudden, what was completely mundane。
is the most exciting thing in the world。
because now you are working with God for eternal purposes。
in the midst of the Monday.。
- That's great.。
- And so when you start asking Him to show up,。
to asking Him to move, asking Him to help your friend,。
He starts moving, helping, showing up.。
Amazing.。
Now it doesn't always feel like you thought it would。
because He, hey, I've got another verse for this.。
It's real simple and it's horrible.。
Isaiah 55, "For my thoughts are not your thoughts,。
"neither are your ways my ways," declares the Lord.。
Dang it.。
It just doesn't fit in our box.。
It doesn't go how we want it to go.。
And so when you let go of how you want it to go,。
which is called surrender,。
when you let go of that and you start to pray,。
those two things together,。
you will start to see what I'm talking about.。
You will start to watch the Holy Spirit move and lead。
and do things that you never saw coming.。
And life goes from very apathetic and boring。
to mind-blowingly crazy awesome.。
And no, not every minute of every day, but kind of.。
And even suffering, like I think about suffering。
because that's another reason I think people don't pray.。
I feel like y'all should tell me why you don't pray.。
Will y'all tell me?。
Just yell it out.。
What's the barrier?。
We all have one.。
What's the barrier?。
Good, shame, pride, busy, doubt, doing it wrong.。
Doing it wrong, apathy, sin.。
What sin?。
Just kidding.。
Different talk.。
Frustration, why frustration?。
Where are you, buddy?。
Let's give this guy a mic.。
Yeah, come here.。
Yep.。
Where's our microphone over here?。
Let's make this thing real.。
Here you go.。
What's your name?。
I didn't think this was.。
Is this on?。
Bro, you have so much power right now, it's crazy.。
I feel like I have the infinity goblet on me.。
So I'm kind of in a season currently。
where God's literally stripping down all the idols。
in my life, wow, my heart's palpitating right now,。
where he took my job, my car, everything that I found。
my value in and my identity in, and he literally said,。
"I have all you have left."。
And I'm actually going into a mission trip。
in this upcoming week, and I'm literally saying,。
"God, use me as you wish, I have nothing else but you.。
"Here's my heart, use it as an undivided vessel."。
And so it's frustrating because some days are mundane,。
and not every day is a rollercoaster of emotions,。
there's ups and downs, and I kind of always wish。
that I was just on the top of a mountain,。
like with Moses in Mount Sinai, just in the presence of God,。
just captivated in his presence.。
But it's not always like that, so it's frustrating。
because you're kind of going through this, again,。
this rollercoaster, and it's, I mean,。
now I'm just repeating myself, but it's frustrating.。
All right, what's your name?。
Josh.。
Josh.。
Thanks for being so honest, that was amazing.。
Wait, wait, wait.。
(audience applauding)。
But we're not done.。
So you just said something profound。
that I think all of us here feel.。
Didn't a lot of people relate to what he was saying?。
It just feels frustrating, it feels like。
you've taken things from me, I would pray,。
but I may not get it back, and how do I do。
in a relationship where I'm asking you for things。
I need, that I want, that it's not going at all。
how I want it to go, right?。
Yeah, I'm also praying for relationships,。
so God, hold on.。
Yeah.。
(audience laughing)。
It's been a long time, it's been a long time.。
(audience laughing)。
I like, some girl is going bee-lying.。
Yeah, it all starts tonight.。
God knows why he led me here, so.。
So, that prayer's gonna get answered.。
Just kidding.。
(audience laughing)。
So, here's what I would say, is there's a part of you,。
there's a part of you that trusts God and loves him.。
That's why you're going on a mission trip,。
that's why you're here, that's why you're still in.。
And then there's another part of you that what?。
Feels?。
Just full of hope, I mean.。
No, the bad part.。
Oh, the bad part.。
(audience laughing)。
Frustrated, yeah.。
I want you to even, are you mad?。
I'd be mad.。
Yeah, oftentimes, yeah, I mean, I literally shake my head,。
like my fist at God and say, like, why?。
This is so unjust, I'm not a perfect person,。
but like, why are you taking everything from me?。
And then, the more I just came to the presence of God,。
I realized, like, I have no room to say anything.。
Wait, wait, no, no.。
Why do I have the audacity?。
See, you're moving to the other part really fast.。
Yeah, I'm sorry.。
I was loving the first part.。
I want you to keep going on the anger,。
because that's real.。
And I think we are afraid to say that to God.。
And the reason we're ashamed is because we feel it,。
but we don't think we can say it.。
You don't think I can shake my hand at God。
and still trust Him and still be a godly person.。
Like, how quick were you to go,。
but I know I don't deserve anything.。
I mean, we all have the but, da, da, da, da, da.。
Y'all, the but's true, right?。
The but is, it's not that the but's wrong.。
It's that we are comfortable sitting in the anger,。
and God is perfectly comfortable。
sitting with you and your anger.。
That's good.。
He's perfectly comfortable.。
Yep.。
He's not mad back.。
He's not sad.。
You know what He loves?。
The same thing I love when my kid opens up to me。
and gets in the car and is raging mad。
because I'm not gonna let him do the thing he wants me to do,。
and he's mad at me about it, and he's telling me why.。
And he's saying, "You know what I wanted today, Mom?。
"I just wanted to see my girlfriend at the YMCA.。
"That's what I wanted.。
"You're in my way."。
Buddy, you know what?。
That is, of course you do.。
Of course you do.。
But you really might go kiss her somewhere in that YMCA,。
so you're not going.。
But--。
(audience laughing)。
But of course you wanna go,。
and of course you're mad at me。
who's in between the thing that you want.。
And I get it.。
And I think as parents, so often we have had parents。
that have made us feel bad for the things that we feel,。
rather than say, "You know what?。
"This is really hard.。
"This is not how it should be, and I'm sorry,。
"and I love you."。
And we can sit here, and you can shake your fist,。
'cause you're right, I have all the power, and you don't.。
And it just is the safest place we could be,。
because he can handle it.。
And I'm not just saying that because I've experienced that.。
The Bible is clear.。
David was a man after God's own heart,。
and he brought it all.。
Okay, you can, you were amazing.。
I'm so glad for you.。
(audience applauding)。
- Thank you.。
- You're crazy if y'all don't just go up and say hey。
tonight, you girls, just say hey.。
(audience laughing)。
So yeah, I just think it's complicated.。
I think we are more complicated than we want to admit,。
and we think being godly is saying all the right things。
and doing all the right things, but being godly,。
a man after God's own heart, is being near and with God.。
And that is a very different kind of relationship。
than thank you God for everything, even though it all sucks.。
Sorry if that's a cuss word to you.。
Sometimes, let's just be real,。
I could've used a way worse one.。
(audience laughing)。
Hey, that was me today.。
- Yeah.。
- Like I was, we had a really tough day in our household.。
Like there was something my wife and I,。
we were praying for for one of our kids,。
and it didn't happen, and the words out of my mouth。
to my wife today, standing in the kitchen,。
where I do not know why God did not answer it,。
it would've been so easy for him to just do it.。
And I was frustrated.。
And then, in the same day, I'm thinking,。
Psalm 34, I will exalt the Lord at all times.。
His praise will continually be in my mouth.。
Like I can hold that tension, that I'm frustrated,。
and he is still good, and he's worthy of praise.。
And it feels real, like it would be inauthentic。
for me to get up here and not battle that frustration.。
I don't know where we picked up。
that we have to be one thing.。
We can be a lot of things.。
We can be sad and grateful at the same time.。
We can be disappointed and happy。
about a lot of parts of our life at the same time.。
And God knows that, he built us that way.。
But we do tend to think, we are working so hard.。
There's a part of our minds that is working so hard。
to not feel the things we shouldn't feel.。
It's judging all of the anger, all of the frustration,。
all of the pride, all of the things.。
That part of your brain, it's an overdrive.。
It's just, you shouldn't think that.。
You shouldn't feel that.。
Should my son want to go kiss the girl at the YMCA?。
I don't know, but you know what?。
It's not the worst thing in the world.。
And I'm sure not gonna shame him about it.。
Yeah, he's got desires that a little middle school boy has.。
God help him and all of you.。
(congregation laughing)。
But as a mom, and I'm using this as an example。
for everything, as a mom, I can either go,。
you shouldn't do that.。
You shouldn't want that.。
You shouldn't feel that.。
Or I can go, of course you feel that way.。
Of course you feel that way.。
We're still gonna do what's right.。
But not kiss the girl.。
But, he's 14, y'all can kiss.。
Don't even get me started.。
If you--。
- So we're talking about prayer tonight.。
(congregation laughing)。
That's a whole 'nother series, Jenny.。
Come back for it.。
- Yes.。
New question.。
I just disqualified myself from that series.。
- No, you're coming, well.。
Anyway, so.。
(congregation laughing)。
- I have a verse.。
- That's good, let's roll the verse.。
- Yeah, I mean, y'all hear what I'm saying.。
I just think we're playing games.。
And that's what I think is exhausting for you.。
God's okay.。
You know what?。
God is even compassionate with your games you're playing。
about prayer.。
You know what he does?。
This is so cute.。
You're sitting there ashamed so you don't go to him.。
And you know what he does?。
Dang it.。
Not 'cause he's mad or disappointed, 'cause he likes you.。
And he has plans for you.。
And he wants to walk with you in your day.。
And he wants to help you with what you're dealing with.。
And he wants to be in it with you.。
It's a dang it, like, I would feel。
if my kids never told me anything, right?。
It's, I wanna be in the mess with you.。
Am I ever, sometimes as a human, I might judge it.。
And your dad might have,。
and that is how you are viewing God.。
But our God says, I want to be in it with you.。
Because we think we have to make ourselves right before God。
and we don't understand the doctrine of sanctification.。
And some of you are going,。
I don't even know if I believe in God.。
Let's more or less, let's talk about big words like that.。
But it's an important thing to believe。
because the doctrine of sanctification is believing。
that not only does God draw you to himself to know him,。
but he also changes your life as you go.。
And if you believe that,。
then walking with him is the way it happens.。
So when it's broken, you go to him.。
When you're sad, you go to him.。
When you're mad, you go to him.。
When you're mad at him, you go to him.。
Like that's how it's supposed to go.。
And as you go with him, the more he gives you insight,。
he gives you vision, he gives you perspective,。
he gives you hope, he gives you self-control,。
he gives you joy, he gives you friends,。
he gives you community,。
he gives you people to make you better.。
He gives you more of his word and reminds you of it.。
That is how it goes, but it doesn't go that way。
if you don't go to him.。
- Yeah, that's good.。
- If you don't form words to him.。
- So Jenny, you were talking about your own prayer life。
and you just said, "I'm praying constantly."。
- Yeah. - Okay, that's biblical.。
That's 1 Thessalonians 5, which says,。
"Rejoice always, pray without ceasing,。
"in everything give thanks."。
Why?。
"For this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus."。
So to pray without ceasing,。
the verse would say, "Is God's will for you."。
So help us get there.。
Like, how do we take steps with that?。
- I kinda wanna do another analogy with someone。
because I think this is, it's so much more easily worked out。
if, so somebody just volunteer.。
Okay, you.。
We have a microphone for you.。
Okay, what's your name?。
Paige.。
Let's work this out together because I think sometimes。
me just telling you the answer is,。
you'll forget it, but I bet everyone will remember you, Paige.。
Okay, so Paige, stand up.。
- Okay.。
- When's the last time you talked to God。
and you gotta be honest.。
I'm trusting like you have a sweet face,。
you're gonna be honest.。
- Okay, probably like this morning.。
- Okay, what'd you say?。
- I would just say, I always say。
I'm how grateful I am every morning。
and I list like what exactly I'm grateful for.。
- Good, awesome.。
So since then, today, what's happened in your life?。
- Work, just at home, gym.。
- Was there anything bad that happened today?。
- My dogs annoyed me.。
- Your dogs annoyed you, that's a good day.。
- Yeah, but it's a good day.。
- I'm gonna call that, it's probably--。
- Everything was good, yeah.。
- Great day, okay.。
So you weren't frustrated with anybody?。
Bored?。
- No.。
- You are really happy and grateful.。
Sit down, you're out.。
(audience laughing)。
Okay, I see the hat right there.。
Yes, you're up.。
I'm trusting you see where this is going。
and you are gonna be a troubled soul.。
(audience laughing)。
Hey, do not miss what just happened with Paige.。
What does Paige do every morning?。
And how does she pray?。
With gratitude.。
And the biggest frustration of her day was her dog.。
And I'm not saying that's every day, Paige,。
'cause I'm quite sure you have had bigger problems。
in the last few months.。
But life sure does feel a lot more manageable and doable,。
whatever frustrations probably were in your life today,。
if we are grateful.。
Okay, what's your name?。
- My name's Elvis.。
- Elvis?。
- Like Presley, yes ma'am.。
- Nice.。
(audience laughing)。
Okay, Elvis.。
So when's the last time you talked to God?。
You're wearing a cross, it was probably recently.。
- It was this morning.。
I actually drove from college this morning to be here.。
- Awesome.。
(audience cheering)。
What college?。
- Texas A&M International University.。
It's about seven hours south in Laredo.。
- Awesome.。
(audience cheering)。
- So yeah, I pray I got up at 5.45 this morning.。
I'm like, God, just give me a safe journey, make it smooth.。
Hopefully I don't get mad at traffic。
and hopefully we can make it on time, and I did.。
- And you did it.。
Okay, so I want you to describe just in general。
how your prayer life goes.。
- A lot of times I tend to get frustrated and lost.。
There have been a lot of instances in my life。
where I've been scared, dealt with a lot of illness,。
not with just me, with my family.。
And a lot of times I also feel frustrated。
I don't find a solution for things like that,。
that it leads me on a weird journey。
and it never ends up how I want.。
And that tends to frustrate me because, I mean,。
obviously, a lot of times I wanna be in control,。
and when it's out of my control,。
it scares me and freaks me out.。
- Play along with me here.。
- Okay.。
- Why?。
- I like to be in control of my life and my situations.。
- Why are you scared?。
- 'Cause I don't want it to end up bad.。
- You don't want it to end up bad?。
- Right.。
- Why?。
- Deep questions.。
(audience laughing)。
That's a hard one to answer, 'cause I want it to go my way.。
I don't want it to end up bad。
because I want the best for myself.。
And if I don't feel that--。
- So what happens if it all goes bad?。
It's gone bad for you already.。
- Oh yeah, oh yeah.。
- You said it, not me.。
- Nope, nope.。
(audience laughing)。
You are very right, you are very right.。
So, dang, that's a good question.。
It's just, I feel like whenever it goes bad,。
I get pulled away from God.。
- It pulls you away from God?。
- Right.。
- Why?。
- 'Cause I feel like whenever I'm not at my best,。
I feel like I'm not closest with God.。
Like, I've had a situation with ex-girlfriends。
where I feel like I've made some poor decisions。
and it's pulled me away from God.。
And I pray, like, God, please let this not go bad.。
Never does.。
And so I'm like, God, let this go smooth.。
Let us both be happy.。
And a lot of times it doesn't end up that way。
and I don't like that.。
- Okay, so to your question, I'm gonna let you sit down.。
That was actually super helpful.。
Because I think hearing how other people pray。
and what they struggle with is so interesting。
because we all are struggling with this.。
Why?。
What I said about the devil,。
if we have all the authority and power。
and all of that authority and power。
is accessed through a relationship with God,。
which means through prayer,。
then the enemy hates prayer.。
The enemy hates it.。
He wants us to not be in relationship with God.。
He wants to destroy, kill our relationship with God.。
And so if that is what you feel。
every time that you go through suffering,。
is that you get further from God,。
that you fall away from God,。
then you're going to dread it.。
You're gonna feel like I will be alone,。
I will be isolated, I will be abandoned,。
and I'm gonna have to deal with this myself。
and I'm gonna have to fix this.。
But that's not a true narrative.。
You know that.。
You know the narrative.。
The narrative is Romans.。
The narrative is that blessed are those who suffer.。
Blessed are those who mourn.。
The narrative is that when we suffer,。
we actually are building hope。
and hope is building all of these other。
beautiful things in our life.。
And so we want, in a weird way, to suffer.。
So we're not really so afraid of it.。
It's just, we're afraid of being abandoned and left in it.。
And God says, "I'll draw nearer to you in it.。
I will walk closer in the valley of the shadow of death.。
And so don't fear anything because I will do it with you."。
But the way we access Him is to talk to Him。
and to not miss it.。
And so to your question, how do you do this right now?。
How do y'all go out of here and just talk to Him?。
It is as messy as it sounds.。
It is as messy as it sounds.。
I think you say on the way out,。
"God, I don't know how to do this.。
Will you help me know how to do this?"。
And then when you get in the car, you go,。
"Okay, God, I'm going home and I'm gonna be tempted。
by blank, help me with it."。
Or God, you get in the car and say,。
"God, I am so disappointed in you。
and that is why I'm not talking to you.。
And I need you to change the way I feel about you."。
Or, "God, my parent that is so horrible to me,。
I'm supposed to love them and I can't。
and I need you to help me.。
It is Mother's Day and I don't know what to do."。
Instead of just and only, "Thank you, God, keep me safe."。
All the messy parts, all the hard parts, He is waiting.。
He is waiting like I am in my car when I pick up my kid.。
I am waiting for the messy parts.。
Why?。
Because I can help with the messy parts.。
I may not give Him the answer that He wants,。
but I will be in it with Him.。
And we will go get Chick-fil-A instead of go to the Y.。
'Cause I like it.。
- That's great.。
Do you hear from God?。
- Yeah.。
Gonna get in trouble.。
Yes, I hear from God, but it's not like you think.。
It's not a voice.。
I just know, I ask Him, "What do you want me to do here?"。
And I know what to do.。
And back to your fear,。
if you give up control of your life, this is the key, guys.。
If you say, "You know what?。
"If I never get married,。
"if I never ever get to do something important that matters,。
"if I never get to be in right relationship。
"with my parents again,。
"if I never get to that job that I am aspiring to,。
"if I never get in that school that I want, I'm okay.。
"I want you and I want what you have for me。
"and when you live that,。
"when that is a sincere desire of your heart。
"and it takes prayer to get there,。
"it takes God helping us move to that,。
"then what happens next is, yes, God starts speaking,。
"but He doesn't compete.。
"He doesn't compete.。
"When you don't know what to do, start with God.。
"Is there anything that I love more than you?"。
And if there is, you confess it and let go of it。
and say, "God, here it is.。
"I'll probably have to give it to you again next hour,。
"but here it is."。
And then He gets loud.。
And I don't mean His voice, I just mean His direction.。
You know what to do, you know what to say,。
you know how to fight your sin, you know who to tell,。
you know, you know, you know.。
And you don't know perfectly,。
it's always kind of just a,。
I think this is what God wants,。
but there's a lot of confidence that comes。
as you surrender and He knows that you're gonna obey.。
God loves to speak to people that are gonna obey.。
- Jenny, I'm putting you on the spot,。
but before I ever knew you,。
I don't know if I was reading your book, "Nothing to Prove,"。
or it was something that I heard you say at some point,。
but you were talking about a prayer that you and Zach prayed。
that really led to where you are now.。
And I just feel like that prayer needs to be shared.。
- Yeah.。
So we were, we had young kids。
and he was a pastor at the time,。
and we were reading the blog of a girl named Katie Davis。
who lived in Africa and she was a little younger than me。
and had adopted multiple kids off the streets of Uganda。
and left her kind of suburban Nashville life。
and surrendered to God。
and was living in a really radical way.。
And I read her words and I read her blog。
and I just wanted what she had.。
I wanted to follow God like that.。
I wanted to surrender to God like that.。
And so I remember that night,。
I stayed up till like one AM reading her blog。
on my bathroom floor。
'cause I didn't wanna keep Zach up.。
And I just remember turning over on my cold bathroom floor。
and saying, "Lord, I will do anything you want.。
We will do anything you want."。
And immediately clear idols came to mind。
of I had largely held back from the things。
that I knew God wanted me to do,。
the gifts that I knew he wanted me to use。
because I cared a lot what people thought.。
That was the first thing that was really clear to me.。
That I believe God made clear to me that night.。
And there were several others.。
I loved comfort.。
I loved approval.。
I love all the things we all love, right?。
I loved it all and I wanted it more。
and I had been living for it.。
And when God brought to mind things I should do。
or things that he wanted for me,。
I would push it away out of approval or comfort or control.。
And so we just begin to pray,。
"God, we want you more than comfort。
and control and approval."。
And what's awful and wonderful。
is we lost a lot of those things when we prayed that prayer.。
We've lost all of those things almost every day of our lives。
because we pray that prayer consistently。
and we still pray that prayer。
and we keep losing those things.。
And it's the best life you could possibly imagine.。
You don't really want those things.。
They don't build incredible lives.。
They don't build lives that will matter for eternity.。
They build comfortable, approved of, in control lives.。
And do you want that?。
You just have to choose.。
Like that's your choice.。
Every one of us gets to choose.。
Do you want a comfortable, in control life full of approval?。
Or do you want to follow God?。
And when you want to follow God and you say,。
"I will let go of those things,"。
you will lose those things.。
You'll lose them all.。
And it's, I highly recommend it.。
The hardest parts of my life that have come from that prayer。
are the best parts of my life.。
It's that little 14 year old boy from Rwanda。
that I'm trying to help not kiss too many girls。
and he's going to kill me that I put this all out。
on the internet.。
But--。
- Hi Cooper.。
- He's actually going to be like,。
"Yeah, a girl wants to kiss me.。
That's my story."。
So yeah, I mean, the hardest parts are the best parts,。
but the way we get there is surrender.。
And so, yeah, we prayed that prayer。
and there have been days just really candidly。
because of the things God has brought into our life。
because of that surrender that I have,。
I've wanted a different way.。
I've wanted the control back.。
I've wanted the approval back, but I would not trade it.。
I wouldn't trade it.。
- Jenny, will you finish just by sharing the gospel。
with our friends tonight?。
- Yeah, I mean, I feel especially tender。
to any of you that are watching or listening。
that don't know Jesus.。
We're talking about a really intimate relationship。
with an invisible God.。
And I just wanna say, yeah,。
that's hard to get your head around.。
And I think that the fact that that is hard for you。
to get your head around is okay.。
I have loved Him a long time。
and it still kind of blows my mind.。
The scripture says that we enter。
into the throne room of God when we pray.。
And yet it's true.。
He's real.。
He's not a myth.。
And He loves you.。
And He likes you.。
And He wants a relationship with you.。
This wasn't an obligatory relationship that He stepped into.。
He chose to create you and He chose to rescue you.。
And He chose to begin a relationship with you。
if you want it.。
So yeah, I mean, I'm talking to some of you。
that maybe don't have that relationship yet。
and you've never had that relationship.。
But I also am thinking of all of you。
that haven't prayed in a really long time, if you're honest.。
And that relationship has really gotten boring。
and cold and distant.。
And all of us, He says, "Come back, kid, come back.。
"I love you.。
"I'm so happy that you're popping in my car,。
"telling me all your drama from school.。
"I wanna hear it all.。
"I wanna know you.。
"I want to be with you.。
"I want to hear it all.。
"And I wanna walk with you in it。
"'cause I made you."。
And the story of the gospel, if you've never heard it,。
is really extra crazy.。
It's that God, Father, Son, Spirit decided before time。
to create us and that we would mess it up,。
but He would get us back.。
And it would be costly.。
It would be so costly.。
And so Jesus came as a baby and He grew up。
and He showed us how much God likes us and loves us,。
how much He wants a relationship with us.。
He loved people.。
He loved 'em and He liked 'em and He healed 'em。
and He cared for 'em.。
And then He died for 'em.。
He died for us.。
He died for you.。
He died for me.。
Because all of us have sinned.。
Not one of us have been righteous.。
Not one of us have done what we need to do。
to be with God forever.。
And so Jesus was the perfect one。
and He died on a cross for you.。
And all those sins and all those mistakes.。
And the cool thing is He rose from the grave。
to show He has power over death,。
that death would not hold Him。
and death will not hold you.。
For those who believe in Jesus Christ,。
they will spend eternity with God.。
It's the greatest story that has ever been told.。
And it was true and real and happened.。
And so we get God.。
We get God.。
All of us that are sinners,。
all of us that don't deserve God, we get God.。
If you want Him, if you choose Him, you get Him.。
And the way you do that is you tell Him, you pray.。
Say, God, I want a relationship with you.。
I believe you did that for me.。
And so we're gonna do that.。
We are gonna pray.。
We're gonna pray.。
If this is the first time that you have ever trusted Him,。
that you're coming into a relationship with Him。
for the first time,。
all you have to do is pray with me.。
Jesus, I believe you are God.。
I believe that you died on a cross for my sins.。
I put my faith, my hope in you as my Lord and Savior.。
And I wanna follow you.。
I wanna talk to you.。
I wanna walk with you.。
And when I don't, help me, keep me, and He will.。
And for the rest of us that have known Jesus,。
maybe for a long time, maybe for years and years,。
maybe so long that we've forgotten how good it is,。
we get to also say, Jesus, you're my God.。
I love you, and I want to be close to you.。
I don't wanna talk to you again.。
I'm sorry I've been far away,。
but I'm not gonna let shame and guilt keep me away。
'cause I need you.。
I need you, and I wanna be right with you.。
I want to be close to you.。
So help me.。
Show me.。
And I think it's even fair, guys,。
I mean, just to even model this for you,。
like the thing I wanna say to you, God, right now。
is show up for them.。
Like show up for them, show up for them。
in their desperation, show up for them in their anxiety,。
show up for them in their broken struggles with sin,。
show up for them as their desires are unmet.。
God, show up for them.。
Show up for them in a way that astounds them,。
that blows their mind,。
that is bigger and better than they thought.。
And we know you show up for us every day。
in a million ways, your word,。
and you show up for us.。
I know all the right answers, God,。
but I'm asking you in your spirit to just tonight,。
as they go to bed, every person listening to my voice,。
would they encounter you in a fresh way?。
'Cause you're real.。
You're not pretend.。
We don't speak to the air.。
We speak to the living God with the power and authority。
over the darkness, so God, help us believe again.。
In Jesus' name, amen.。
- Would you guys thank Jenny Allen?。
Jenny, thank you.。
Please come back.。
So grateful for you.。
Let's stand together.。
Let's respond by singing tonight.。
(upbeat music)。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
