[Music]。
Mic check, I'm on. Came out, I'm not, I'm sick. And my voice is going out and I thought,。
you know, I'm going to go out there but I'm not going to sing. It didn't happen.。
1 Peter, chapter 1.。
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, a God's elect, exile scattered throughout the provinces。
of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, who have been chosen according to。
the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit to be obedient。
to Jesus Christ and sprinkled with his blood. Grace and peace be yours in abundance. Praise。
be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us。
new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead and into an。
inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade. This inheritance is kept in heaven。
for you who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation。
that is ready to be revealed in the last time.。
We're kicking off a new series in 1 Peter tonight. We are in the salutation. We are。
in the greeting. And if this was a stream that you would reach your hands deep in and。
pull them up, you would pull out gold every time. Gold is a rich, rich, rich text that。
I'm excited to present to you this evening. Let me pray for us.。
Father, we stand before this text knowing that you have a plan for our lives, that we。
are here under your providential will, that on this Tuesday we would gather in this room。
like this knowing that you have plans for us. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would。
awaken us to the truth that you have for us here in Dallas, in Fort Worth, in Houston,。
in Oklahoma, El Paso, and all over the world. Would you awaken hearts, create a revival,。
a great awakening? Amen.。
What do you think about when you hear the word chosen? What comes to mind? What does。
that bring about in your hearts and your mind as you hear the word that someone is chosen?。
What it does for me is it stirs all the insecurities of sixth grade, fifth grade, fourth grade,。
where you're split into team captains and everybody lines up, whether you're playing。
kickball or baseball or flag football or Red Rover, Red Rover, whatever the game is, right?。
That there's team captains, like, "Hey, I'll take you, then I'll take you." And some of。
you, you love this. Like, this is what you were made for because you know you were going。
first round, second round, draft pick. Like, you knew that you're an athlete. You're the。
best there is. You're out there. You're discouraged that you're not one of the captains, but you。
know the captain's your boy and he's about to choose you first or second, right? You。
know that's going to happen, right? And then others of you, you're still in counseling。
because of this moment. This brings back all the insecurities. You're up there and you。
know that everybody, one by one, slowly, like as time is standing still, is going to be。
chosen and divided amongst these two people until you are left standing there all alone,。
you and the trash can. And they have to choose between you and the trash can. And in a moment。
of weakness, they say, "Give me the human." That is firmly the camp that I'm in. That。
was the experience that I lived over and over and over again, unless they didn't know me.。
Because like sometimes I'd go to like the, you know, the basketball court and I could。
look like I could play ball. Like I'm two feet taller than everybody else and I have。
my Nike socks pulled up high and my Nike shorts and my Air Raids. And I was standing there。
and if they didn't know me, they're like, "Yo, give me the tall guy. Joke's on you,。
buddy. I'm bad." You know? Chosen. It can stir up that insecurity. And then it just。
kind of continues in life, right? Whether we're chosen for dates or chosen for a college。
or chosen for a job or an internship or chosen for marriage. And there's times and time and。
time again where we feel like we're not chosen. And in this rich text, I want to hit you with。
a theological truth that if you are here and you're going to be in heaven forever, that。
you have been chosen by God. And that if we can embrace this theological truth that we。
have been chosen by the creator of the heavens and the earth, all of those things I just。
listed fail into the background, fade into the background, they are not important. And。
you think, "How can that be? Not getting married is not important. How can that possibly be?。
Not getting a job? I mean, those are natural. How could that not be important?" But if we。
can grasp this evening the reality that you've been chosen by God, that that would fade into。
the backdrop. Here in 1 Peter, I've had conversations with some of you that really struggle with。
this idea that God would choose some and not others. And I think if we dig back, it comes。
down to a place where you say, "Well, that's not fair. It's not fair that God would do。
that. He'd choose some and I just, it's not fair." And I'm here to tell you, it's not。
fair. God's not fair. If God was fair, he'd choose no one. It's so much better than fair。
that God would invite you into the riches of his abundance, grace, eternal riches forever。
and ever and ever, an inheritance that you could never, ever deserve and yet he extends。
it to you freely. It's not fair. And so we need this book that Peter wrote. And why did。
he write it? About 64, 63, 64 AD, the church is facing extreme persecution. It is on the。
rise. The emperor is Nero and Nero is like that crazy fraternity brother that you had。
or that you knew of. He's that guy that always takes things a little too far, always gets。
a little too drunk and he's like, "Let's get in a fight. Let's go streaking. Let's burn。
down Rome." That's Nero. He's a crazy madman. He is a lunatic. You're like, he's either。
going to be in a circus or in prison or run for president. And we all hope it's not the。
third one, but it might be all three somehow. That's Nero. And so just to tell you, he killed。
his mom because she objected to his sexual affairs. After his wife died, he married his。
male servant, had him castrated because his servant resembled his wife. He set Rome on。
fire and historians say that he walked through the palace and played the fiddle as it burned。
to the ground. And then he brought Christians forward and tortured them until they confessed。
to burning down Rome so that people would hate them because he took all of his angst。
and he targeted this group called the way, this group called Christians that he would。
later take them, dip them in wax and light them on fire on the side of the road to give。
light. He's a lunatic. And when you cannot trust the leader that is over you and you。
feel oppressed by that leader, you need hope. And so Peter, at just the right moment in。
history, pinned this letter from Rome to give the scattered church hope. And so this evening,。
as we move through it, we're looking at how you have been chosen to be obedient, how you。
have been chosen to be made to be born again, and how you've been chosen to receive an inheritance.。
Peter, an apostle of Christ Jesus to the elect, this doctrine of elect, it's not hidden in。
this text. It's right there off the bat. He's showing you the doctrine of election right。
off the bat. He's not afraid of it. It's very matter of factly. To the exile scattered throughout。
the provinces of Pontius, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. I can show you on a map.。
This is modern day Turkey, almost exactly modern day Turkey. And the church is scattered。
through this so that we would read it thousands of years later and be encouraged. Who have。
been chosen, underline that word chosen. According to the foreknowledge of God, the father, this。
word foreknowledge here, it's the word prognosis. In the Greek, it's the word prognosis. It's。
where we get the exact word in the English, prognosis, the results of something. Prognosis,。
it's the result. Right? And so God's foreknowledge is not that, and this is important, it's not。
that he looks ahead and sees the future. It's that he made the future, that he knows the。
future intimately. It's like this. I know that tomorrow's Wednesday. God has ordained。
every event of Wednesday in his foreknowledge. He knows Wednesday, every second of Wednesday.。
Through the sanctifying work of the spirit to be obedient, underline that, to be obedient。
to Jesus Christ and sprinkled with his blood. So this very first sentence alludes to the。
doctrine of election, the doctrine of predestination, the doctrine of sanctification, the doctrine。
of the foreknowledge of God and the Trinity, father, son, and spirit, working together。
to choose you. Do you see what I mean by such a rich text? Grace and peace be yours in abundance.。
My first point this evening is that you've been chosen to be made obedient. That you。
have been chosen to be made obedient. Who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge。
of God, the father through the sanctifying work chosen for what chosen to be obedient。
to Jesus Christ, that you have a new Lord Jesus, that you do not go through life doing。
whatever you want to do. This is my friends. This is the single most distinguishing characteristic。
of the Christian that you no longer do what you want to do. And there are things that。
you don't want to do that you do. That you no longer do what you naturally want to do.。
And you do things that you don't naturally want to do. We hold our money loosely, we。
give it away, we care for the poor, we don't just follow our sexual urges. This is the。
mark of the follower of Christ, the one who has been chosen. And we do these things willingly。
and voluntarily with the help of the spirit, by the spirit's work. God has changed us。
and given us a new master. This concept right here, friends, this is what God used to save。
me. And I've told you this story before, but I want to teach through it for just a moment.。
So let me tell you the story and then I'll teach through it. I stumbled into this place,。
hung over, sat in the back row, wearing the clothes from the night before, from the club,。
and I began to wrestle with this idea, who is God? Always said that I believed in God,。
never made a decision that was impacted by my belief in God. So it was like, I believe。
in God, but I'm going to get drunk and I'm going to have sex and I'm going to have fun。
and I'm going to party and I'm going to do whatever I want to do. But I believe in God.。
It was a statement of belief, not an act of belief. Behavior always follows our belief,。
right? And so there I am, I'm in the back row, and the guy tells this goofy story, dumb。
story, God used it to save my life, about a horse, a wild stallion. The horse just wanted。
to be free, roam the mountaintops in this pursuit of freedom until, you know, people。
would try to capture it, but it just wanted to be free. So one day a farmer, villager,。
local cowboy successfully captured the horse, put a rope around his neck and took him home。
and loved him, cared for him, provided for him and eventually broke him and was able。
to ride him. And when he would ride this horse, he would lead him to food, he would lead him。
to water and he would provide shelter for him. And the line that God used to save me。
was the horse wasn't completely free until he was fully submissive to his master. Now。
I came in, my life looked like I had it together, you know, I worked in a high rise building,。
wore a suit every day, had the Jaguar S-type that I'd take to work and lived in the condo。
in uptown. But I wanted to be free. All of those things were the pursuit of freedom for。
me. Now let me retell that story. I want you to look at verse two closely. When the rope。
was placed around that horse's neck, he was chosen according to the foreknowledge of God。
the Father. When he was being broken, this is through the sanctifying work of the Spirit.。
And when he found true freedom, he was obedient to Jesus Christ. And you say, "How can true。
freedom come from obedience?" Because he is the only master that can truly lead you to。
freedom. You cannot find freedom on your own. You cannot find freedom in the world. And。
let me illustrate this. Let me give you a paradox. Two very different people. Let's。
take the homeless beggar on the corner and the billionaire in the corner office, in the。
estate with acreage and employees. And both of them, and it's a broad stereotype statement。
I realize, both of them are in their situation, according to my illustration, because of their。
pursuit of freedom. This man wants the freedom from authority, the freedom from rules, the。
freedom from anyone telling him what to do, so much so that he's found the freedom from。
the existence of a house and bills and the man. And this guy believes that his riches,。
collecting riches, piling riches, having so much that he can do whatever he wants to do。
is the path to freedom. That's what some of you believe here tonight. You think, "Hey,。
I'm going to go. I'm going to try to become a millionaire before I'm 30 or maybe now before。
I'm 40, or a billionaire, so that I can do whatever I want." You were not made to do。
whatever you want. You were made to do what God wants. And God did not choose you based。
on your ability. He chose you based on what he can do through you. The eyes of the Lord。
go to and fro, looking for hearts that are fully his. What does the Lord want? A humble。
and contrite spirit. He did not choose you, write it down, he did not choose you based。
on what you can do, but based on what he can do through you. Romans 10, 9, "If you declare。
with your mouth, 'Jesus is Lord,' you have a new Lord. And believe in your heart that。
God has the power to raise him from the dead, you will be saved." And so obedience, this。
obedience is believing that Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit are leading you, that you。
are protected by the sanctifying work of the Spirit, verse 2, and you are shielded by God's。
power until the coming age, that's coming in just a minute in verse 5. And God is helping。
you in your obedience. What happens when you do something wrong, believer? You're convicted.。
You get in your car and that quiet voice says, "You shouldn't have done that." It's conviction,。
it's not guilt for the believer, it's conviction. "You shouldn't have done that, you shouldn't。
have went there with him. You shouldn't have went there with them, you shouldn't have drank。
that much. You shouldn't have looked at that, you shouldn't have gone back to that website,。
you shouldn't have pulled it up on your phone, you shouldn't have done that, you shouldn't。
have called them back, you shouldn't have called them." That's God helping you. And。
if it's not there, if you say, "No, I'm going to continue to sleep with my significant other。
and I don't feel bad about it. I think God's given me the freedom. Oh, now we're in dangerous。
ground. I don't feel bad about it. The Holy Spirit isn't helping me." You may not be a。
believer. You may not have realized God's choosing. If it's not happening, then that。
is concerning. Second point from this text. "You've been chosen to be born into a living。
hope." Verse 3, "Praise be to God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy。
he has given us new birth," underline this, "new birth into a living hope through the。
resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead." A new birth means a new family. That you have。
a new family. That you have a new life. That this is the way the scriptures describe it.。
That you have a new birth into a living hope. Let me describe. Let me explain. I sat in。
Algebra 2 behind Kayla. You guys don't know Kayla, but Kayla was the most perfect individual。
I had ever met at the time. She was born into a family with a lot of money. She had the。
cool mom. The mom that would take her to wrap houses or do whatever. The cool mom. That。
was her mom. She was always smiling. She was more beautiful than any human being should。
be. She smelled like cotton candy. I would sit behind her in Algebra 2 and I would think,。
"What does this girl have to do in life? She's got to get up and eat and go back to。
sleep at some point. That's it. That's what she needs to do. All of the world is going。
to give her whatever she wants for the rest of the rest. She's going to be the cheerleader。
and get the job and in the interview. Everybody loves her. The most popular, she's Kayla.。
She's got everything coming her way except she's going to die. And then what? It doesn't。
matter what family she was born into then or how perfectly symmetrical her eyes were.。
How perfect her hair always was. God doesn't care that she smells like cotton candy. He。
made her that way. It's not a shoe into heaven unless she has been received a new birth into。
the living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That first birth doesn't matter.。
That gets you 80 years maybe if you're lucky. Lucky, God's providence. I don't know. She's。
got to be born again. That's what Jesus said. Peter knew this because Jesus taught this。
in John chapter 3. It's the only two places in the New Testament it shows up. Nicodemus。
asked Jesus, "What do you mean born again?" He says, "You must be born of both water,"。
that's a natural birth, "and of the Spirit," that's salvation, "that you must be born again."。
And Peter lived it because you remember Peter was a fisherman. Jesus comes up to him and。
says, "Put down your nets. You're going to be a fisher of men. Follow me." And then we。
see Peter and he constantly is messing everything up, constantly putting his foot in his mouth,。
constantly just messing things up. And then even to the point of denying Jesus, he's such。
a coward. He doesn't even say that, "Hey, that's my best friend," because he's nervous。
about this 12-year-old girl and whatever's going to happen to him. And so he denies Jesus.。
And then Jesus shows back up on the scene and says, "Do you love me, Peter? Or did you。
know I love you? Feed my sheep." And Peter, that's not who you are. You're a new creation.。
See, God doesn't make you different. He makes you new. God didn't bring you here tonight。
to make you different. He desires to make you new. God didn't come into your life and。
flood your life and flood your relationships and flood every aspect of who you are to make。
you different. He's making you His. He's making you new. He has plans for you, plans to prosper。
you. He's created you. You're His masterpiece to walk through the good works, which He's。
created for you to walk in, Ephesians 2.10. A plan and a purpose for you to do something。
incredible through you. And anyone here who is currently headed toward heaven has been。
born again. And this second birth gives you the hope of eternal life.。
I was here for the services on Sunday, and I was rather discouraged. I'd been sick for。
about three and a half weeks, and I was just fighting discouragement. And I was up here。
after the service meeting with people, and this sweet little nine-year-old girl walks。
up with her dad. And she -- her dad starts and says, "She would like you to pray for。
her mom. She just -- she came out of kids' ministry today and said, 'I want the pastor。
to pray for me.' Her mom has breast cancer, just had a double mastectomy, and is about。
to go into the final stages of chemo. Would you just pray for her healing, pray that she。
would live?" I told her -- I mean, I told her it would be my greatest honor and privilege。
of the week to pray for this sweet little girl. She was so sweet to smile and just kind。
as can be. And I got to tell her, you know, my mother had cancer as well, same kind of。
cancer, same kind of surgery, same kind of chemo. She's still with me. And I got to share。
with her that hope, but that's -- that's a fleeting hope. I said, "Let me ask you a question.。
Is your mom a believer?" She said, "Yes, my mommy loves Jesus." Oh. Oh, your mommy's going。
to live forever. I cannot see what happens in the midst of the cancer and the chemo,。
but your mommy's going to live forever. She has an eternal hope that changes everything.。
This life is just a tiny glimpse. It's a commercial, and then there's forever. And you cannot live。
this life for this life because it makes it look like you don't believe in the forever.。
If you just live this life for this life, it's like you don't really think there's a。
forever. And she's going to live forever. Your mommy has been chosen to walk in obedience。
as she suffers. She's been chosen to be born again, to endure this suffering different。
than someone who is in this world and suffers without hope. And your mommy has been chosen。
to receive an inheritance. Let's talk about that. Third point, chosen to receive an inheritance.。
"Chosen to receive an inheritance." "And into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil,。
or fade," Peter writes. This is an alliteration in the Greek. "And into an inheritance that。
can never perish, spoil, or fade." This inheritance, it's not like they bought stock in WorldCom。
or something. It's secure. It's not going to depreciate. It's going to last forever.。
This inheritance is kept in heaven for you. "Who through faith," this is you talking about,。
"Who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is。
ready to be revealed in the last time." Friends, what problem on earth is not solved by an。
eternal inheritance? Inheritance is a word that Peter's audience would have known well。
because in this day, you would choose your heir. So like Nero, for example, was chosen。
by his uncle, not his dad, his uncle to be the heir to the throne, to receive that inheritance.。
You would choose somebody, not necessarily even a family member. Like you'd go out and。
find someone who you thought would take care of your riches and you would choose them.。
God, the creator of the heavens and the earth, who owns a cattle on a thousand hills and。
every piece of gold he created and everything he owns, and he says, "Who am I going to entrust。
it to?" and he chooses you. And it feels not intimate because you're like, "Well, he chooses。
me and all the other Christians." There's enough to go around. Eternal riches. You will。
not go for naught. You will not feel like you didn't receive your part or enough. I'm。
certain he makes you an heir. So imagine you came in tonight and you're like, "Oh, my job.。
My car. Got the check engine lights always on. My apartment. It's too small and too expensive.。
Not to mention my roommates. That's not nice. My bank account. All my problems would be。
solved if I was rich and I didn't have to worry about these things. And if I get sick。
while I'm at it, how about I take health too? I'd be healthy all the time." And let's just。
say you came in here and I was able to give you that. Let's just say everyone here received。
millions of dollars. We made national news. Everyone at the porch left a millionaire. Don't。
move. It's not going to happen, right? But let's just say, don't rush the stage, everyone。
leaves a millionaire. It's a life-changing event. For the rest of your life, you'd remember。
this day. You'd tell everyone about this day. They'd come and visit you at your estate and。
be greeted by your butler and come in and you'd be like, "Yeah, the porch, man, they're。
just handing out money. It was great. Making it rain." How is this not better than that?。
We just don't believe it. This is so much more life-changing than that event that might。
last you another 50 years. This is so much more life-changing. This is an eternal, which。
is so much more than a measly million dollars. We just don't believe this text. We look at。
it and we say, "God, you're lying. We do not believe it. We don't allow it to penetrate。
our hearts. It will not change our tomorrow unless the Spirit buys grace." "Who through。
faith," verse 5, "you through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation。
that is ready to be revealed in the last time." Underline "shielded by God's power" because。
that's pretty awesome. You're an heir. When I was in the corporate world, I had this customer。
in Mexico, based out of Mexico, owned a billion-dollar company in Mexico. When he would take his。
children to work, he would take them to work by way of helicopter with Navy SEALs as their。
guards because they were a kidnapping risk. Someone wanted to take them and hold them。
as ransom. Because they were valuable and because their inheritance was valuable, they。
were well-protected. You're valuable, your inheritance is eternal, and you're shielded。
by God's power. I was thinking about this this week, and so I looked up the most heavily。
guarded places, places like prisons with high walls and fences and lots of guards. There's。
this weird seed vault in Antarctica. I'll look it up later, but it's pretty crazy. Places。
like Fort Knox in Fort Knox, Kentucky, where the U.S. stores most of their gold, over 5,000。
tons. This gold sits behind a 22-ton vault door. The vault uses a combination that has。
to be entered by at least 10 different staff members who each have their own code. There's。
concrete-lined granite walls, alarms surrounding the entire facility. There's Army tanks outside。
the building, fences and guards, and an Apache helicopter that flies over. It is a well-guarded。
facility. And as I looked up the most well-guarded facilities in the world, I saw places like。
Fort Knox. But they missed the most well-guarded facility in the world. They missed it. Google。
missed it. Let me show it to you. That's it. That's it. And wherever you're at right now,。
wherever you're listening, I showed a picture of the church. It's God's people shielded。
by God's power that nothing is going to happen to you one second before God's providential。
ordained will. You will not die. You are eternal. You are immortal until God is done with you.。
You can leave those doors and you can face any persecution with a smile, any challenge。
with hope, any moment of discouragement reflecting on your eternal inheritance that will not。
fade or perish or spoil. So in summary, you've been chosen to be made obedient, chosen to。
be born again into a living hope, and chosen to receive an inheritance. I also read this。
story this week about a man named Thomas Martinez in Bolivia. Thomas was a beggar on the streets,。
67 years old. True story. And he would stand on the corner and beg for change. He'd take。
the change into the local bar. He had an alcohol problem. He would spend the money that he。
collected on drugs and alcohol. And when he didn't collect enough money, he had been known。
to write fake checks, hot checks. So he'd write these checks to fund his drug and alcohol。
problem. And this was well known. This kind of spread throughout the community. And Thomas。
is there in a bar, his favorite bar in Bolivia, when the police come in. And they're asking。
around. He catches word that they're looking for him. And so he leaves out the back door,。
never to be seen again. The police were looking for him because he had received a $6 million。
inheritance. Forty years earlier, he was married to a woman and he left her, but they never。
divorced. After they were married, she received a large inheritance and then she passed away.。
And this inheritance was left to Thomas. He's on the street, but he has no idea that he's。
a millionaire. And so as someone comes to give him this gift, he flees. Afraid of what。
they might ask of him, afraid of the changes that they might enforce upon him. Not understanding。
that he's been chosen to receive an inheritance. He runs. And I think of so many of you here。
tonight, terrified that God's going to ask you to break up with them or not date them。
or move or, or change jobs or dress different or hang out with different people, different。
places. And it's time because you're here. You can wrestle with whatever I chose and。
consider where you're at on a Tuesday night. What you're listening to that God and his。
mercy would give you this message. And do not sneak out the back door because what he。
is asking of you is only to give you life. God does not ask anything of you that is not。
for your Supreme best. Nothing. There is nothing, no matter how hard, no matter how tall of。
an order that God would ask of you. That is not for your absolute best. He's not trying。
to rip you off. He desires to set you free. He desires to invite you in to his incredible。
riches. You've been chosen. He chooses you. He's chosen you out of your habits. Some of。
you out of your relationship. And some of you out of your struggles. Some of you he's。
chosen out of your idols. Some of you he's chosen out of your families. He's chosen you。
out of your past. Through the blood of Jesus Christ who's died for your sins, by the same。
spirit that raised him from the dead, that spirit now seeks to help you through this。
life shielding you by God's power to the finish line. To the eternal riches. That's the truth.。
Let me pray we believe it. Father, thank you for your servant Peter. For the truth that。
you have for us just through the greetings of this great text. Father, would you awaken。
our hearts all over this country and all over this world. Would you awaken the hearts of。
young adults of 20s and 30s somethings everywhere that they would trade in the American dreams。
that they would trade in their hope and the things that they're holding on to and their。
trinkets and their treasures and they would make this incredible great exchange for this。
eternal inheritance that they would see you as a Duffcott and that they would live every。
waking moment of their life for you and when they lay down to sleep you say you give to。
your children even as they sleep that you would give to them Lord. That your spirit。
would conform their lives to something better than anything this world could offer them.。
That they would live for Jesus, King Jesus. That Jesus would be their Lord. That Jesus。
would be their master. Jesus become our master. No longer slaves to this world but that we。
would be slaves to righteousness. In Jesus name, Amen. No longer slaves to this world。
but that we would be slaves to righteousness. In Jesus name, Amen.。
[BLANK_AUDIO]。
