I mean, he's practically dating a model.。
She told me they went to Cabo, and he paid for the whole thing.。
Dude, she does his laundry and cooks.。
He proposed at the Eiffel Tower. In Paris.。
Bro, she plays in his fantasy football league, and knows more about the Cowboys than he does.。
She's got the husband, the house, she's got it all.。
What more could you ask for?。
What more could you ask for? How we doing, The Porch?。
Thank you for being here. Dallas, Fort Worth, we're so excited you guys are watching.。
Downtown Dallas, thank you guys for hanging out with us there this summer.。
We'll see you here next week. Houston, Texas, we're so glad you guys are gathered there as well.。
We are excited about this series and what God is doing through the lives of young adults.。
He's changing the world through the lives of young adults.。
That's why we do this. We are just pumped.。
We're continuing our series, Relationship Goals.。
I'll start with a story. Twelve years ago, September 20th will be marked 12 years.。
I and my lovely wife, Monica, were headed to our honeymoon.。
We had just got married.。
The day after our wedding, we are in DFW Airport,。
about to go to the Riviera Maya in Mexico Beach,。
all-inclusive resort for a week.。
We're so pumped about it. We are so excited.。
We go to the airport. We get there early.。
We park at remote north parking because that's what you do when you're a good steward.。
We had four bags just like this.。
I remember we had these four bags.。
I'm trying to be chivalrous. I'm trying to be a gentleman, a good husband now that I'm 24 hours in.。
I'm like, "Hey, you take this one, baby. I'll get these three."。
I'm loading them up on the bus one by one.。
We take the bus to the terminal.。
There, where the bus dropped us off, to get to the gate to check in, you had to go up this escalator.。
DFW has the biggest escalators.。
It drops us off at this escalator. We got these four bags.。
This is not where I dog on her for bringing a bunch of bags because in reality, I'm the shopper in our family.。
She had two bags. I had two bags.。
We were created equal and equally yoked, if you will.。
There we are. I'm like, "All right, sweetie. You got your bag. I got these three."。
I get them on the escalator. It's complicated because those stairs move.。
I got one on and then the other. I'm holding them.。
I'm doing this act. She's right here just below me.。
I got her bag and I got these three.。
When we get to the top of the escalator, the sides of the escalator don't move.。
The sides are not moving. The side kind of grabs one of the bags and it lurches me forward.。
I bump her and then she begins to fall down the stairs.。
I grab onto her and when I do, I begin to fall on top of her.。
Three bags falling on top of me. I'm not lying.。
We fall from the top of the escalator to the bottom of the escalator.。
I'm laying there on my back. She's on top of me. Bags on top of her.。
I'm bleeding.。
I'm like, "This is how it starts?"。
Like, "Is this a bad omen or something? This cannot be good."。
Like, "I'm hurt. My leg is bleeding."。
The moral to the story is don't go on your honeymoon with a bunch of baggage.。
It happened. It's true.。
I believe the Lord gave me that so 12 years later I can say that line.。
Do not go on your honeymoon with a bunch of baggage.。
That's what we're going to talk about tonight as we move through this series.。
We're not on the date yet. I'm well aware of that.。
We've been talking about the prerequisites to dating.。
First, that you date for marriage.。
To date for marriage you have to have an understanding, a biblical worldview of what marriage is.。
Then we talked about this idea that we love people.。
To love people we have to go back to the author of love, the one who invented love,。
the one who claims that he is love, to understand how to love.。
Next week we'll move towards the date.。
We'll move towards looking for the one that we're going to spend the rest of our life with.。
But this week we have to deal with our baggage.。
I don't know if anybody in the room, if there's 3,600 people here,。
there's 3,600 people with baggage here.。
You have baggage. You have to know what it is.。
How amazing this evening if we can identify our baggage and you,。
so you don't have to be like me, you don't have to take it on your honeymoon.。
You don't have to take your baggage into marriage.。
Could you imagine how powerful that would be?。
I hope tonight is not a burden for you. I hope that it presents to you hope.。
At some point in this message you may feel guilty, you may feel weight,。
you may feel condemnation or conviction.。
I just want you to hang in there with me.。
Hang in there because there's good news this evening from the Scriptures。
as we dive into the Scriptures.。
What more loving thing could you do for your future spouse。
than to begin tonight to intentionally deal with the baggage from your past?。
The baggage that you carry around with you today, whether you realize it or not.。
Some of you will realize that you have baggage that you're carrying with you.。
That means that you shouldn't be dating right now.。
That you need to take a season.。
Some of you will realize that you need to end a relationship tonight.。
Okay, don't leave. Take a deep breath.。
No need to elbow anybody. Just hang in there.。
Let's look at the Scriptures for hope because here's what I can promise you.。
If you do things according to God's plan, he'll bless that.。
You trusting yourself over God's plan will never, ever, not one single time,。
not ever go well for you.。
And so let's just see what he has to say from these ancient texts this evening.。
And I do hope that you leave with hope.。
As we move through this text here in Colossians chapter 3,。
we're going to look at unchecked sins, unchecked hurts,。
and before you leave here this evening, unchecked lies that you are believing.。
Now it's not often that I always kind of will read the Scriptures and learn things.。
So I'll learn things, but it's not often that I'll see something that will just kind of blow my mind.。
Like, "Wow, I never realized that before. That happened to me this week."。
That happened to me this week, and so I want to share that with you,。
what I learned from the Scriptures this week because I never noticed something.。
In Ephesians chapter 5, Colossians 3, and 1 Corinthians 6,。
the Apostle Paul, who wrote these letters to the churches there in Colossae and Ephesus and Corinth,。
he wrote these letters. That's what these Scriptures are,。
these ancient texts that the Holy Spirit preserved for us.。
They're just, at least in the New Testament, the epistles, those are letters to literal churches.。
And so he doesn't know that he's writing Scriptures.。
He's just writing letters. He's saying, "Hey, this is how you should conduct the church.。
Hey, these are things that you need to be aware of.。
Hey, this is what it means to live a godly life, a holy life, to pursue Christ.。
This is what Christ has done for you."。
So he's just writing these letters that now we read and we apply to our lives.。
But what was interesting to me about these letters to the church in Ephesus, Colossae, and Corinth。
is that he talks about marriage in all three of them.。
He talks about the role of a husband and the role of a wife in all three of them.。
And in all three of those letters, right before he talks about marriage,。
he gives a list of sins and he says, "That's what you were. That's not who you are.。
You need to put these to death. You need to put them aside.。
You need to take them off and put on the clothes of Christ to realize who you were."。
See, some of you came in here this evening and you have an identity problem.。
You have to go back to the basics of the gospel and realize who you are in Jesus Christ.。
And so I'm going to tell you where the other two places are.。
I don't have time to cover right now. That's your homework.。
I want you to look this up. Write these down.。
So in Ephesians chapter 5, this is where husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church.。
Right before that, in verses 3 through 8, he gives us this list of sins.。
In 1 Corinthians 6, which is right before 1 Corinthians 7,。
where he talks about the role of a husband, the role of a wife, the Christian household.。
In 1 Corinthians 6, verses 9 through 11, he gives us a very similar list of sin, lots of overlap.。
And then again, where we'll be tonight in Colossians chapter 3.。
And so this blew my mind this week and I'm glad I can share that with you.。
I want you to go home and study it for yourselves.。
But we'll be in Colossians 3, verses 5 through 10 this evening.。
Very similar list. He says this.。
"Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature, sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires, and greed, which is idolatry.。
Because of these, the wrath of God is coming.。
You, porch, you used to walk in these ways, in the life you once lived, your old life, your past life,。
your BC life, your before Christ life.。
But now, you must also rid yourselves of all such things as these, anger, rage, malice, slander, and filthy language from your lips.。
Do not lie to each other, since you have taken off your old self with its practices,。
and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge in the image of its creator."。
He says, "Hey, porch, that's who you were. You're not that anymore.。
Stop continuing in those ways. Christ has made you new.。
He's given you some new clothes to wear.。
You don't have to wear those old grave clothes.。
You don't have to carry around that old baggage.。
That's not who you are.。
You're a new creation, with the Holy Spirit living inside of you, purchased with a price.。
Walk in that way. Check that baggage."。
And so, my first point this evening is, sin left unchecked leads to addictions.。
I've realized that as I've met with young adults, there are three categories of baggage that I want to pull from this scripture,。
that I think are the three biggest categories of baggage for everyone here.。
And the first one is addiction.。
This comes from your pet sins.。
This is the bag that you carry around with you.。
These are those little pet sins that you have in your life.。
And so, if we open this bag, what's inside? These are the clothes you can't get rid of.。
You know that old comfy sweatshirt that you like to wear when you're watching movies?。
You know, these are the clothes that you just, maybe it's something that has, you know, some...。
It's okay. It's okay.。
Like, I don't know if butterfly collars and pearl snaps are still in, but...。
It's true religion. I paid way too much for this shirt, and so I'm going to keep it, okay?。
That's not going to goodwill.。
And I don't know when the engineer pants are coming back in style, but these always fit just perfect.。
And I just can't... And who else wears 36 inseam? I mean, I can't get rid of them.。
But you guys know these sins. You know these ones that you can't...。
I mean, some of these things are very familiar to you.。
And you know the addiction that they've caused in your life.。
You know the things that rule you.。
Talked about that comfy sweatshirt you can't get rid of.。
And you're carrying them around with you.。
And it desires to end your marriage long before your marriage ever started.。
Desires to hurt your spouse before you ever even meet them.。
These sins. These sins that are left unchecked that grow into something that controls you.。
"Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature, sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires, and greed, which is idolatry."。
These things are addiction.。
And so I want to talk about the first few on the list, because these are the ones he repeats over and over.。
He talks about sexual immorality and impurity and lust.。
These are the ones that I've noticed as I've met with you tend to be some of the biggest baggage that folks here carry.。
They come from your addiction to pornography, your past sex life, your encounters, be it one time at prom or be it right before you came here.。
Maybe it's like, "Well, we're married in God's eyes," or "We're going to," or "It's a committed relationship."。
"I think it's okay." Read your Bible.。
Understand God's Word.。
You're behind a lie.。
I don't know if you've ever noticed that we create categories for sex.。
We create different categories for it.。
The other day I was talking to a young man.。
He told me he was struggling with pornography.。
By struggling, I mean he was falling into it.。
There was no struggle.。
The struggle was him falling victim to pornography and giving himself to it on a weekly, regular basis.。
He said, "Yeah, I look at porn every week, but at least I'm still a virgin."。
I want you to hear what I said to him.。
I said, "Why do you think Jesus is a liar?"。
He said, "I don't think Jesus is a liar."。
I said, "Well, why would you call yourself a virgin?"。
I read in the Scripture, Matthew 5, verse 28 says,。
"I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her."。
Jesus said you're not a virgin.。
Now listen closely.。
I don't say that to condemn you, or to hurt you, or to put condemnation on you.。
You've got to remember, Jesus, the one who said those words, is the one who paid for that sin to make you a new creation.。
But why do we put these categories around sex as if one is better than another,。
and I'll live with this one as long as it's not that one?。
I think we have to redefine what this even means.。
I believe the reason Jesus is saying this is because he knows how dangerous and detrimental to a healthy marriage that activity is.。
If we've hung out long at all, you know that derailed my marriage two years in.。
And not that I was actively looking at porn two years into marriage,。
but I was actively looking at porn the 12 years before marriage.。
And it almost cost me my marriage.。
I'm so passionate about this.。
This is why Jesus says, "Do everything you can to get rid of it."。
If your right eye causes you to sin, gouge it out and throw it away.。
If your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off, people.。
Get rid of it.。
Get rid of the computer.。
Who needs it?。
What are we doing?。
Do whatever it takes to deal with these sins that seek to kill you.。
And so I'm talking about any kind of sex outside of marriage.。
Oral sex, anal sex, sexting, gay sex, straight sex.。
Any kind of sex.。
As you pursue sexual pleasure outside of marriage, just to clear the categories.。
God is saying, "Hey, you're hurting yourself."。
And I have something better for you.。
I'm not just trying to give you rules to follow to make you feel guilty.。
I'm trying to set you free and give you life so that you can have it abundantly, he says.。
There's this misunderstanding around this word, "sex."。
Sex is nowhere in the Bible.。
It's not mentioned in the scripture.。
We have different words.。
Sex is an English word that we use to describe this activity.。
But in fact, I have a friend that says, "I don't even talk about sex inside of marriage."。
Because people have such a skewed view.。
Young adults going into marriage have such a skewed view of what it is.。
He actually speaks to premarriage often.。
And he says, "You know what? I hope you never have sex."。
These are couples that are just about to get married.。
He says, "I hope you never have sex," which he gets all their attention.。
And he says, "I hope that you pursue intimacy and oneness in marriage."。
He says, "Sex is something dogs do on the side of the street."。
I hope that you pursue intimacy and oneness with one another.。
We don't know that.。
Some of you will never have that.。
And I'm not saying that you will never have sex.。
You may only just have sex.。
And God has something better for you.。
You're learning the wrong way.。
You're training your heart and your mind for something distantly second, third, fourth, best.。
When God has something much better for you.。
The Hebrew word that we translate sex is literally mingling of souls.。
What a beautiful reality.。
And so I've talked about that one.。
He says, "Sexual immorality, impurity."。
But listen, addictions that you need to check can be anything.。
If you're addicted to alcohol, cigarettes, anorexia, bulimia, eating disorders, an addiction to food.。
It could be an addiction to working out.。
It could be an addiction to things.。
Maybe you love to shop.。
You wake up in the morning.。
You go to Woot.com.。
You go to Amazon.。
You can't wait to buy something.。
Maybe it's masturbation for you.。
Maybe it's gambling.。
You love to go to Shreveport or Vegas or play Hold 'Em or whatever that is for you.。
Maybe it's an addiction to people, relationships.。
You're codependent.。
You look back and you realize you've never been single since the fifth grade.。
You've got a problem.。
You've got to deal with it.。
Paul says, "Greed, materialism."。
In 1 Corinthians 6, he goes on to say, "I will not be mastered by anything."。
You have an addiction.。
If you can't go, say, three months without something, that's an addiction.。
See, I don't think we ever think we have an addiction.。
There's so many of you that have been looking at pornography at least every month since the fifth grade.。
You wouldn't say, "Well, I'm addicted."。
You wouldn't even say that word.。
Can I tell you something?。
As a friend who loves you, you're addicted.。
You're an addict.。
You need help.。
And help's available.。
That's the good news.。
I've found healing.。
I was an addict.。
I've been healed.。
I've been set free.。
I walk in freedom, and you can too.。
Often, these addictions in our lives, they lead to deep hurts.。
And these deep hurts turn to us lashing out in anger.。
And that's what Paul writes in verse 7.。
"You used to walk in these ways, friends."。
That's who you were.。
That's the life you once lived.。
That's who you were.。
It's not who you are.。
"But now you must also," verse 8, "you must also rid yourself of all such things as these."。
Anger, rage, malice, slander, filthy language from your lips, cursing.。
My second point this evening is that hurts left unchecked lead to anger.。
Hurts left unchecked lead to anger.。
This is that bag that we don't want to show anyone.。
This bag.。
This is that one that we don't want anybody to see what's in it.。
We don't want to deal with that thing that happened.。
We don't want to face it.。
It's hard to open.。
It's heavy.。
It's got weights in it, rocks in it, been carrying around.。
These are things that happened to you.。
These are clothes that have been given to you.。
I wouldn't buy that.。
Somebody gave that to me.。
And they're heavy and they're thick.。
Someone passed it on to you.。
Someone did that to you.。
And now you've got this weight and you're carrying it around.。
You don't want anyone to see it.。
It's hard to hide.。
It shows up in traffic.。
It shows up when things don't go your way, when you don't get the promotion.。
It shows up when you realize the state that you're in.。
When you feel like God's ripping you off, this shows up.。
And you are just waiting for someone to come along so that they can make you feel better.。
And you're going to sink them.。
You're going to latch on to them.。
And you're going to weigh them down with your anger and your malice and your rage and your cursing and your broken heart.。
These hurts, they can be anything.。
They can come from anywhere.。
It comes from past relationships, a breakup.。
Someone stole your heart.。
Why'd they do that to you?。
Ended up cheating on you.。
Betrayal.。
Caused hurts.。
An abortion.。
Partnered with that.。
Tried to hide something.。
Tried to fix it.。
That can cause this.。
There's healing, friends.。
You don't have to carry that weight around.。
We're not mad at you.。
We're not mad at you.。
We love you.。
God loves you.。
He's not mad at you.。
He just wants to talk about it.。
Can we just talk about it?。
You're going to hide that your whole life?。
You're going to take that to the grave?。
No, you're not.。
You're going to die from the inside out, slowly carrying around that weight.。
It can be from parents.。
A parent that left.。
You don't understand why a divorce that you experienced,。
that still hurts when you think about it,。
caused a damage that you never wanted to admit,。
or maybe you do admit it,。
or maybe your parents did this weird thing.。
It was a performance-based acceptance.。
They said, "Hey, I love you as long as you're good,。
"as long as you get the ribbon,。
"as long as you get the trophy,。
"as long as you make the team,。
"as long as you perform,。
"as long as you look my friends in their eyes.。
"Yes, sir.。
"No, sir.。
"Yes, ma'am.。
"No, ma'am."。
As long as you do these things,。
you're going to feel love from me,。
but if you don't do these things,。
you're going to feel like I regret you.。
Gosh.。
That's heavy.。
That's a heavy, heavy weight.。
It can come from abuse, friends.。
Any kind of abuse.。
It can be physical abuse.。
Someone taking their anger out on you.。
You swear you'll never be like that,。
but the stuff is passed on like a disease,。
one person to the next.。
People who say they'll never be that way,。
it just goes, just perpetuates itself.。
Example, such a strong force.。
It can be mental abuse.。
Maybe you dated someone that played mind games with you.。
They said they loved you,。
but they consistently hurt you,。
and this causes this.。
It can be the unspeakable sexual abuse。
that you swear you'd never deal with.。
I know that's heavy.。
I know it's heavy.。
I've sat with you.。
I've talked with you in my office.。
I know it's heavy,。
but we've got to deal with it tonight.。
We've got to stop carrying it around.。
We've got to find healing from this.。
The truth is, friends,。
the truth is most of us here tonight。
have experienced sexual abuse.。
That's the reality.。
You probably, in ways that you're naive to,。
have experienced sexual abuse.。
Let me redefine the term for you.。
Sex or intimacy between two people。
was God's invention,。
a genius invention, I might add,。
for marriage.。
If you've had sex outside the context of marriage of any kind,。
you've abused it.。
You've gone against the Creator's design,。
and you have been a part of a force。
that is so much stronger and more powerful。
than you could ever imagine.。
The world tries to convince you that it's no big deal,。
and that is why the world is suffering as it is today.。
Why divorce rates climb while marriage has declined.。
Kids born out of wedlock.。
The hurts that we see today,。
because they keep telling you, "No big deal."。
We've experienced sexual abuse,。
and we've never experienced healing from that.。
But let me tell you something.。
There's hope, because。
if you have been a victim of any kind of abuse,。
and you appropriately heal from it,。
you expose it, you bring it into the light,。
God begins to repair your heart.。
You are given one of the most powerful forces in the world.。
It's called empathy.。
Hurt people who carry around weight,。
hurt people, hurt people, hurt people.。
But healed people have the power of the Holy Spirit in them。
when they've been healed through the blood of Christ Jesus,。
through confession, repentance,。
dealing with their sins, their struggles, their hurts.。
And they go through recovery,。
and healed people heal people.。
And you have that opportunity to go through that.。
I've seen this, man.。
I have a friend who had been divorced,。
gone through all kinds of crazy relationships,。
found identity in men,。
got pregnant, had an abortion,。
carried that weight.。
And went through a recovery program。
for those who had an abortion.。
And you know what she had to do?。
She had to carry these rocks with her everywhere she went。
until she was ready to receive the grace of Christ.。
And I was with her.。
We were in the Amazon jungle, true story,。
on a boat, on an international discipleship trip to the Amazon.。
And she took those rocks to the top of that boat,。
and she threw them in the Amazon River。
and said, "I am ready to receive the grace of Christ.。
"I am ready to extend forgiveness to those who have hurt me.。
"I am ready to understand that God has forgiven me。
"for the hurts that I've done."。
And she got baptized in the very same water that she threw the rocks in.。
And that's not all.。
Do you know what happened next?。
The Lord began to heal her,。
and He created a ministry。
to those who've had abortions around her.。
And that ministry grew,。
and today it's thousands of people,。
many of whom are listening to me right now.。
That's what God does。
when you bring your hurts to Him.。
Some of you, the hurt that you carry around。
is that you look at where you're at,。
and you're like, "Hey, I don't even marriage.。
"I don't even have any prospects, and I want to get married to God.。
"Why have you forgotten me?"。
And you're sitting there, and you're drowning in the sea of singleness.。
You're drowning in the waters of singleness,。
and you're like, "God, why don't you throw me a life raft of marriage?。
"Throw me the life raft of marriage."。
And He's like,。
"'Cause you'll drown."。
If I did, you'd sink.。
It's too heavy for you right now.。
You need to heal with the bitterness inside of you,。
and stop wearing these weights.。
Stop wearing these weights,。
but check the baggage.。
Check it.。
I'm not saying--I want to be clear--。
I'm not saying that once you deal with this,。
as soon as you deal with your baggage,。
God's going to send you someone.。
I'm not saying that.。
You may deal with your baggage, and you may walk outside and get hit by a meteor.。
I don't know, man. That may happen.。
You may get up to heaven and be like, "What was that all about?。
"If you wanted my attention, you could have just spoke to me or something.。
"You didn't have to send a meteor."。
But I know what won't happen. You won't get up there and be like,。
"Hey, why wasn't I married?"。
You'll be like, "Oh, wow.。
"What is marriage?。
"I'm married to the bridegroom of Jesus Christ。
"for the rest of eternity."。
Nobody's married up there. I don't know if you knew that.。
Nobody's married in heaven.。
Scripture says that explicitly.。
Someone who hasn't forgiven someone else is carrying around weight。
that will expose itself in times of trouble.。
Sometimes people say, "I can forgive others. I just can't forgive myself."。
You're right. You can't forgive yourself.。
You didn't sin against yourself.。
You can't forgive yourself. You sinned against God.。
Others will use that semantics, terminology.。
I don't have a problem with it, but I'll just let you know.。
You're not trying to forgive yourself.。
You're trying to receive the grace that God is freely extending to you right now。
and understand that He's forgiven you。
and that He's making you into something.。
He already sees the finished product.。
He loves it immensely.。
Not some future version of you.。
Not what you're becoming.。
He loves the finished product of what He's going to do in your life.。
He already sees it as such.。
"Do not lie," verse 9.。
"Do not lie to each other,。
"since you have taken off your old self with its practices。
"and have put on the new self,。
"which is being renewed in knowledge in the image of its Creator."。
Since you have taken off your old self with its practices。
and you've put on this new self,。
which is being renewed in the knowledge, the reality,。
renewing your mind, Romans 12, 1 and 2 says,。
around that there is a Creator。
and that He's going to turn you.。
He's finishing a work that He started in you,。
making you into the image of Jesus Christ, His Son,。
perfected at glorification forever and ever and ever and ever.。
And He's not holding your abortion against you,。
your sex against you, your pornography against you,。
your alcoholism against you, your gambling against you,。
your hurts, your sexual abuse.。
That what you did, that's what was done to you.。
It's not being held against you.。
He's forgiving you for it.。
He's set you free from it.。
But you don't feel free because you're carrying that baggage.。
The last one, it's a big one.。
Big baggage in marriage.。
It's unchecked lies.。
Lies left unchecked will lead you astray.。
Lies left unchecked lead you astray.。
See, you came in tonight and you have all of these preconceived notions。
of what dating and marriage and sex and all of these things are,。
but they're not informed by the Scripture.。
They're informed by Cosmo, they're informed by TV,。
they're informed by movies, romantic comedies,。
they're informed by the Internet.。
Oh my goodness.。
And so, can I just say, you're believing lies in this room.。
You have bought all of these lies that, hey, it's all about your happiness。
and all of this craziness and eternity has zero implications。
on what you believe about marriage and dating.。
You have to renew your mind.。
And so this is that baggage.。
Like I said, it's a big one.。
The lies that we believe.。
These are the clothes that you bought because someone else convinced you。
they were cool.。
My Yeezys, who knew?。
How'd those get in there?。
Sorority shirt, Coyotes in the house.。
Those things that you did because you wanted to fit in.。
Clothes you wore because you wanted to fit in.。
Clothes that culture said, hey, this is what the style is.。
This is where you need to go.。
You're being influenced by external influences.。
Some of them are wrong and you've believed lies.。
And so what happens in marriage, have you ever done this?。
Have you ever got to the gate or the baggage check。
and your bag has to be under 50 pounds?。
That one, that's mine. It never is.。
You get up there and it's like 54 pounds and then you have to unzip it.。
Has this ever happened to anybody?。
You have to unzip it and shuffle around.。
You do the shuffle.。
You're like, okay, here's my bottle of Don Julio tequila.。
No, I'm just kidding.。
That has to go somewhere else.。
We've got to move this around and put that there and this, that, whatever.。
And all you're doing, and this is what happens in marriage,。
is you begin to shuffle around the lies that you've believed。
throughout the years.。
Oh, what? We're not going to make love every single day of our lives?。
Marriage isn't all about that? What?。
You're not going to come to bed every night in lingerie? What?。
Oh, this really isn't about tips and tricks? What?。
It's not about performance? What?。
Oh, we do that less than one half a percent of our lives? What?。
Oh, God speaks into how many kids we should have?。
Those sorts of things? What?。
Oh, community matter? What? Church membership? What?。
And you begin to learn new things, renewing your mind。
around what the Creator has for you.。
Proverbs 4:23 says, "Above all else, guard your heart,。
for everything you do flows from it."。
Your version might say, "Keep your heart with all vigilance,。
for out of it everything in life flows."。
What it's saying, friends, is that you've got to be careful。
what you let in your heart, because what you put in your heart。
takes you places.。
And when you begin to inform your heart around what love is,。
what dating is, and what marriage is, and it's lies,。
you go into marriage, and every single person,。
every pre-married couple Monica and I have done pre-married counseling with,。
every single one of them have struggled with bad expectations.。
And it's because the culture has fed their bad expectations.。
So we sit in our living room, we go through how awful their expectations are,。
they call me two months later and tell me that we were right,。
but they didn't believe us when we said that.。
And it's just these rose-colored glasses that we wear,。
or these terrible expectations that we have.。
And so where does it come from? It can come from your friends.。
Some of you, you came here by yourself because no one would come with you.。
"What? Aren't we going to church on Tuesday?"。
No, no thanks.。
And you realize you have no positive influences.。
You don't have community, you're not really a part of the church.。
You're sitting on the outside looking in,。
and you know that you keep going to the same places。
hoping that something else happens.。
You return to the same sins like a dog to his vomit.。
And it's because those around you are such strong influences on your life.。
And for you, my friends, what I would say to you is you need to change your playmates。
and your playground.。
"What? You want me to just stop being friends with them?"。
I want you to stop being friends with them.。
"What do you mean?" Stop.。
Talking, calling, going over, hanging out with.。
That feels unloving.。
It may be the most loving thing you can do.。
Most God-honoring thing you can do.。
"I'm not going to go to the bar with you anymore.。
"I'm not going to do that anymore."。
It can be your parents.。
Your parents didn't make you a sinner, but they gave you some great sins to choose from.。
They passed their baggage on to you.。
Some of you, your mother was a worrier.。
Anybody's mom a worrier? Don't raise your hand. That wouldn't be loving.。
You go out with your friends, she's like, "Where are you going?。
"Text me when you get there, text me when you get home."。
"Who's driving? He's got a driver's license? What?"。
She's out there with breathalyzer tests, you know, I mean, she's crazy.。
Right?。
And today that looks like, "Why aren't you married yet?。
"Aren't there some good guys in that church?"。
Oh, man. Thanks, Mom, for that encouragement. Marriage motivator.。
Just marry someone.。
As long as you're happy.。
And they tell you stupid things.。
Like it's about your happiness.。
Parents love to say that.。
It's not about your happiness. Life's not about you.。
You were put here by someone else, and life is all about him.。
You living for him.。
Comes from magazines, lots of magazines.。
Teach you tips and tricks you never see.。
I always walk through the grocery store aisle, I'm like, "Who buys these things?"。
But evidently people do, because there's always new ones out there.。
And they say the dumbest things. They never say, they never have said this,。
they never say, "Hey, here's how to be married for 60 years."。
It's the headline that I've never seen. It's always, "Tips and tricks.。
"Here's how to get his attention." You know who reads that?。
Women who've been married six times read that.。
That's who read that.。
They're always trying to get his attention. It says dumb things like,。
"Seven tips to get her to orgasm."。
And what, you know, it's the O word, I know.。
And here's what it does, and this is why I'm grieved for you.。
This is why I'm grieved for you, because I've talked to so many of you。
who go into marriage with performance anxiety.。
Because the culture has taught you,。
this is all about you working your moves.。
Oh my goodness. Read the Bible.。
Okay?。
Learn to pursue intimacy.。
Learn to understand。
from the one who created the act.。
I mean, those people。
that are all about being great lovers。
get divorced and remarried and divorced and remarried and divorced.。
And just in case, like you, the enemy's tempted,。
"Oh, well, he just, maybe he's got problems." No, listen.。
Monica and I, no, we don't have problems in regards to that area.。
Okay? Things are going quite well.。
Listen, listen. But I will tell you this.。
Listen. Back with me. But I took a lot of baggage。
into marriage. I took a lot of。
baggage into marriage. And it took。
seasons of healing.。
And it just gets better and better and better. My friend told me。
so many of these young adults think the goody bag。
is the word he used, happens on the honeymoon.。
He's been married for a long time. He says,。
"The goody bag happens in the 35 years of pursuing intimacy."。
And it just gets better and better。
and better. And we just don't think that way.。
We just don't understand。
what God has desired for this. I want you to,。
I want you to understand a better way. We learn this。
from movies and TV. You've never seen that show。
that really gives you a biblical view of relationships.。
Lots of worldly views, though.。
So I want you to think about where you're getting。
relationship advice from.。
A guy tells me the other day,。
he was at a kid's birthday party.。
He's on his fourth wife. And he says, "JP, come here.。
I want to give you some relationship advice."。
I said, "No thanks."。
He said, "Well, I've had lots of practice."。
I said, "That doesn't make you an expert, bro.。
I've got an expert.。
I've got community.。
No offense, but I don't want your relationship advice."。
People write in all the time.。
They email and say, "Hey, JP, I just want your opinion。
on something." No, you don't.。
You don't want my opinion. I hope you don't.。
I hope you want to understand.。
I mean, if you want me to clarify a verse or give you。
what I think that means or send you some commentaries。
or suggest some resources, but I'm not an advice column.。
I'm not here to give you my opinion on anything.。
I want you to know what God。
desires for you from the instruction。
that He's given us.。
We check our baggage。
because it's cumbersome, it's reckless, it's hard to carry around.。
That's why we check it. We don't carry it with us on the plane.。
That's why we unpack it as soon as we get somewhere.。
Could you imagine carrying all that stuff around all the time?。
So application quickly. If you came in with addictions,。
you may need to trust in Christ that He's forgiven。
your sins through His death and resurrection on the cross.。
That He's paid for it. He saw all the porn。
that you saw in a moment when He paid for it.。
And it crushed Him. And it cost Him His life.。
He paid for everything。
that you've done wrong. He paid for that abortion.。
It cost Him His life. But He did it because。
He loves you. He's crazy about you. He did it to set you。
free.。
You need to confess. Bring it to the light.。
Stop hiding it. And you need to pursue recovery.。
Man, if you're looking at porn,。
you shouldn't be dating. If you're having sex,。
the most loving thing that you may be able to do right now,。
the most loving thing you should do is break up.。
Say, "Hey, we need to put the brakes on this.。
Pull the parking brake. Take some time.。
Pursue healing.。
Get right with God. Understand what really matters in life.。
Stop training for adultery.。
Stop training ourselves for sex。
outside of marriage. I don't want to train myself to cheat on you anymore。
by having sex with you outside of marriage."。
Some of you, what you need to do tonight is。
go on your Outlook calendar, move forward six months。
or a year, and just write in the subject line,。
"Date again." And between now and then,。
go into regen,。
go into biblical recovery,。
and heal. And it'll be the most loving thing。
you could do for your spouse. If you came in angry from past hurts,。
pursue healing. Identify the source of those。
hurts. We have all kinds. We have someone cares,。
shelter from the storm, men. If it's sexual abuse,。
we have people who are here that。
what they do every day is they exist to help。
you recover from that。
in a godly way, be it an abortion, be it an abuse,。
whatever it is, but you've got。
to bring it to the light. If it's parents,。
a relationship, you've got to forgive. That scripture。
says, "Forgive as God also has forgiven you."。
Forgive. Some of you, what that means。
is you need to leave here. You realize that you've been a part of。
the hurts of someone else, and you need to go to them, if at all appropriate,。
and say, "Will you forgive me? When we dated,。
I took advantage of you, and I need to ask your forgiveness."。
Now, if they're married, I'd be wise. I would talk。
about that in the context of your community. It may be a letter,。
it may be an email, it may not be appropriate.。
But some of you, you realize that the Rolodex。
is going through your mind, and you need to leave here and seek people。
out and say, "Will you forgive me? Because I look back and I realize。
that I hurt you. I put weight。
in your life."。
It says, "Therefore, as God's。
chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourself,"。
this is verse 12, "with compassion, kindness, humility,。
gentleness, and patience." Isn't that beautiful that Christ。
gives us new clothes to wear? It's amazing.。
He gives us new clothes to wear. These clothes look good on everyone.。
They always fit. They're suitable for every。
occasion. Humility. No one's ever worn humility。
and looked bad in it. Humility looks。
good on everyone. Gentleness looks good on everyone. Patience looks good。
on everyone. Compassion and kindness. These are clothes。
that look good on everyone. "Bear with each other and forgive。
one another," he writes. "If any of you has a grievance。
against someone, forgive as the Lord forgave you.。
And over all these virtues, put on love,"。
the love we talked about last week. Adam did a great job。
speaking of this love last week, "which binds them all together。
in perfect unity."。
And if you came in this evening believing lies, I want you。
to cut off the source of those lies. You may need to leave。
here and stop watching romantic comedies. Stop watching。
that sitcom that is feeding your heart a。
view of what marriage is.。
I said already, change your playmates in your playground. Cut off the TV。
and open your Bible.。
Friends, it's faithfulness in one direction.。
Long obedience in the same direction. Okay?。
You can trust in Christ tonight if you haven't,。
but sanctification is a process.。
And some of you, you need discipleship. You need。
to sit down with someone and learn this。
book and make the ingestion of these scriptures a daily。
part of your life.。
For the rest of your life.。
That this would be a daily part of your。
existence on this earth is knowing God's。
will for you. And renewing。
your mind and your heart around the Holy。
Scriptures. Following。
His spirit over the advice of。
Cosmo and Maxim and men's health.。
Friends, you need more than just will and want.。
Some of you are like, well, I want to。
stop looking at porn. I want to forgive that person. You need。
more than just will and want.。
You need a plan for recovery.。
You need discipleship.。
You need to plug into a healthy body of church.。
Begin to prioritize the things of Christ.。
And put on new clothes.。
We, Monica and I went back to。
that resort for our 10 year anniversary. It was so amazing。
to sit in that same place。
10 years later and reflect on what God has done.。
I've told you before, even earlier tonight, almost got divorced。
year two. And then God just began。
to heal us in such a way that today we have this。
incredible marriage. These three amazing kids. We get to。
talk to people about marriage. Share our struggles and learnings with them.。
She's the most amazing wife。
for me, I'll say. I love her so。
much. And it was great to celebrate that。
and specifically talk about the healing。
that we encountered through Christ.。
And on our way back from Mexico, celebrating。
10 years of marriage, we got diverted from Dallas to Houston.。
We got to Houston about midnight. We sat on the tarmac。
for a while. We eventually were able to deplane.。
And they had sent, at Houston Hobby, they had sent。
customs home. And so we got stuck at。
baggage claim. We're there at baggage claim。
and they said, "We cannot let you into the country because we've sent customs。
home." And we're just sitting there。
with our baggage and we can't move forward.。
And this,。
after about an hour and a half, somebody called。
a gentleman who was at home with his family,。
sleeping I imagine, and he drove back。
to the airport and he let us in.。
He let us move forward. That's what Christ does.。
Some of you here tonight, you feel。
like you can't move forward with your baggage.。
You can't stop. You can't get out of that trap.。
You can't forgive. You don't know what to do.。
He came。
to give you some new clothes.。
I got to tell you,。
the blood of Christ covers。
your sins. He has a covering。
for all this stuff.。
Oh, what's that doing in there?。
Righteous clothes.。
He takes your baggage.。
He took it on Himself, guys.。
He came to give you。
a new life to heal you.。
Make you spotless.。
That's what He did.。
He set you free. The scripture, this in Colossians,。
it starts with this beautiful text. I'm just going to read it to you.。
Verses 1-4 says, "Since then you have been raised。
with Christ. Set your hearts on things above where Christ。
is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds。
on the things above, not on earthly things, for you died。
and your life is now," listen, "your life is now hidden。
with Christ in God. When Christ,。
who is your life, appears, you then also。
appear with Him in glory." And isn't。
it amazing that God sees not your。
sin, but His payment.。
God sees not your sin,。
but His covering. God sees not。
your baggage, but His righteousness.。
God sees not your life,。
but the perfect life of His Son.。
And He gives you an inheritance,。
His glory, forever and ever。
and ever and ever and ever。
and a million years from now you're still。
with Him. And nobody's up there living with the。
regret of that abortion,。
the addiction, the drunkenness,。
the pornography, the relationship that you。
swore, completely coded, "There's no way I could。
live without Him." He says, "Yes you can.。
You're my son, you're my daughter.。
I've come to give you。
a new life.。
To give you life so that you might live it to the full.。
So you might live it with。
me." And I'm just crazy。
enough to think that in His。
sovereignty and power that He would have you right now。
here listening to this。
to remind you。
that He's crazy about you.。
He's in love with you.。
That He forgives you.。
He's gone to incredible, great。
lengths to forgive you, but you've got to move past。
yourself and begin to live your。
life for Him.。
Every day for Him.。
Faithfulness, long。
obedience in the same direction.。
Discipleship, recovery.。
And begin to work on your marriage.。
That may happen even 10 years from now.。
You can work on it now as you。
work on you and surrender to Christ。
to make His work for you.。
So I'm going to pray that you would do that.。
And we're going to worship.。
Christ, you said。
verse 13 that we've been forgiven.。
You said over and over。
and over that that's not who we are.。
We're not those things.。
That we've been made perfect in your image.。
Would you help us to see ourselves。
as you see us?。
Thank you for forgiveness through the cross.。
Thank you for new life,。
new creation that is no longer us who live。
in the flesh, but your spirit。
that lives in us, perfecting us,。
making us new.。
Father, thank you that we can bring our。
baggage to the altar, that we can。
check it there, and that we can move forward。
as your sons and your daughters.。
Is how the enemy lies to us。
and says that。
like, "Hey, you can't be fun if you're a Christian.。
And you have to die to the excitement。
of life. You have to settle for something。
bland." I've met few people。
who have partied。
and engaged in debauchery。
in the ways that I did.。
And I've found treasure, world.。
I've found。
treasure. Today I bear my cross as I wait。
for the crown, but I've got to tell you something.。
His burden is light. His yoke。
is easy.。
He did the hard part for me.。
And like this weekend, there's going to be a thousand。
people having a better。
time than they've ever had at any club with any。
bottle service or taking shots or doing。
any strip club, anything.。
And I know this, I don't say that naively, I know。
this because they come up to me and they're like, "Man, you wouldn't believe my story."。
Yes, I would. You won't surprise me.。
No offense, I just hear it every day.。
I found life in Christ. He set me free.。
Hey, some of you need not。
to leave. You need to find。
somebody with a shirt with a yellow light bulb。
on it, and you need to go up to them and say, "I need to talk to you.。
I need to confess my abortion。
to you. I need to confess my addiction to pornography。
to you. I need to confess that this week。
I had sex with my boyfriend/girlfriend.。
I have a gambling addiction."。
Whatever that is. Don't leave without telling somebody.。
And that's step one.。
But it's not the end. It's not the finish line.。
I want you to pursue recovery.。
You can show up here, this same room,。
Monday night at 630. It's not a room full。
of weirdos. It's a room full of broken people.。
It's the healthiest place in our church.。
And say, "Hey, help me with recovery.。
Come in with any addiction."。
And they would love to do that.。
If you're looking for community, if you realize。
you don't have that, tonight we have open community group.。
Guys, you can walk down this hallway. And girls, you can walk down that。
hallway, and there's a room full of people also looking。
for community. And if you're here in college,。
we do have our college hangout on the second floor.。
And I'll just reiterate, if you're a freshman, don't be a fool.。
Sign up for LaunchU. If we can help you do that, if money's the issue,。
talk to us. But we want you out there.。
It's going to be amazing, and we've saved spots for you.。
So you need to do that tonight if you're waiting until last minute.。
Tonight's last minute. So make that happen.。
I love you guys. If we can serve you in any way, let us know.。
Peace, love, and serve the Lord.。
[music]。
[MUSIC PLAYING]。
