[MUSIC]。
>> Porch, how we doing? You doing all right? Hey, it's great to be back. It's great to see you.。
So glad you're here. Thanks for making the time to join us this evening. Not just those of you that。
are here in the room, though, it's so good to be with you. A special shout out to Porch Live。
and all of our locations that are tuning in, especially Porch Live Springfield,。
Porch Live Des Moines, and Porch Live Fresno. Can we give it up for Porch Live, everybody?。
It's great to be together. Hey, well, just two weeks ago today, my life got flipped upside down。
because on November 5th at 2.06 p.m., coming in at eight pounds and eight ounces, mine and。
Brooke Perry's very firstborn son, Cass Levi Perry, came into the world.。
Text over stripes, am I right? The guy looks good. It's so on brand that we would have a Tuesday baby。
that he would show up, and I'm so grateful to TA that he would be a pinch hitter for me. He would。
show up and he would bless our room. Now, I don't know if you've ever been on the fence about raising。
kids, but take it from somebody that's been at it for two weeks. I recommend it. I recommend it. I。
think it's certainly worth the commitment should the day ever come that you can do so. And I say。
that as somebody that's not ever been one that's totally infatuated with the idea of having a whole。
household full of kids. Like, I'm not the guy that thought, "Man, I can't wait to have a harem full。
of kids." Like, that's not what I was looking for. I knew I wanted to have a big family, came from a。
big family, and yet I knew what it would cost me to have a son. Like, I was under no presupposition。
that it would not cost me something. I knew that I was going to be giving up an immense amount of。
sleep. I knew that we'd be spending a lot of money on all the latest baby gear. And I also knew that。
I would be just piled up with pounds of dirty diapers. I knew it would cost me a lot. And what。
I also knew is that this little guy wasn't going to contribute anything to our house. Like, he。
wasn't going to offer to pay the bills. He wasn't going to offer to pick up around the place. I knew。
that he wasn't going to agree to try and clean up his own mess. Instead, he was going to rely upon。
us to do that. In fact, he really hasn't been pulling his weight at all to this point. And yet,。
despite knowing all of this beforehand and realizing it every single day since,。
I'm totally enchanted with the kid. Like, I love him. Like, I'm mesmerized by the fact that he's。
mine and he's Brooks, that he is made in our image, that he is from God for us. Like, I'm blown away。
by the fact that he is my child. Like, I didn't realize just how wonderful it would be, just how。
captivated I'd feel, just how mesmerized I would find myself sitting on the couch and just looking。
at him and just staring at him, just waiting for him to do the next thing. And yet, that has been。
my reality. Like, I am nonetheless totally enchanted with this kid. I am wholeheartedly,。
totally, undeniably in love with the little guy. Now, what's happened to me over the course of the。
last two weeks is I've had a revelation that the way I love my son, it's an accurate reflection of。
how we should love Jesus. Like, we should be totally enchanted with him. Like, absolutely。
mesmerized, like captivated, gripped, arrested by the fact that you're mine. Like, I get to have you。
forever. And yet, what happens is we realize what it costs us. And now it doesn't pound up in piles。
of dirty diapers, but it does look like inconveniences in life, troubles that may be ahead,。
some cost will incur in the eyes of other people as we walk with Jesus. And what happens along the。
way is our enchantment is replaced with disenchantment. It becomes disillusionment.。
It even becomes discouragement to walk with him any longer.。
It shouldn't feel that way. Like, that's what's hit me over the last two weeks. Like, I realized。
if all of this is true, like if Jesus really is wonderfully enchanting and he is totally。
mesmerizing and he captivates the hearts of any and every person because he is God, it doesn't。
make sense then that I would ever fall out of love with him. And yet, if we can be honest with。
ourselves, if you can look yourself in the eye tonight, you might find yourself in the spot where。
this is in fact true for you. Like, you may know that, man, I was totally enamored with him at。
first. I couldn't get enough of him. I wanted to spend time with him. I wanted to sit and learn as。
much as I could. I wanted to soak in the scriptures because it was the way that I was getting to。
understand who he was and I was learning who I now am. And yet, somewhere along the way,。
you fell off. You lost your love. Your excitement fell flat. Your passion burnt out and your。
affections ran dry. What do you do when that's the case? Well, that's the question that I want。
to answer tonight. What do we do when we find ourselves totally disenchanted with the person。
of Jesus? And to answer it, what I want us to do is look at the book of Revelation. So, if you have。
a Bible, you can turn with me to Revelation chapter 2. Revelation is the last book in your Bible, so。
it's easy to find. If you don't have a copy of the scripture, don't worry. We'll have it on the。
screens behind me. We've been in a series called Disciple, where we've been looking at what it。
means to very simply walk with Jesus. And that idea is one that many of us hear and we kind of。
tune our ears out. We turn our brains off because we think we know what it means to walk with him.。
And yet, what we've been challenging you is that this idea that to be a true disciple of Jesus is。
not just to know about the guy, it's to know him personally. And we've been looking at it through。
the eyes of the guys that knew him best, that walked with him nearest, those disciples, which。
we read their stories in the gospel accounts. And yet, tonight, what I wanted to do as I came back。
is I actually wanted to break the script. Like, I wanted to pause our regularly scheduled programming.。
I wanted to make an exception to our rule of being in this series because I wanted to tackle an idea。
that as I've sat with you over the last several months, many of you just in one-on-one coffees,。
like out in this coffee shop, spending time together and learning your story, what I realized。
is across this room, we have a big problem. I've been trying to talk to you about what it means to。
walk with Jesus. And yet, so many of us are convinced that we're walking with Christ.。
When in reality, we are just wandering about in the Christian life. Like, we're not moving with。
any kind of conviction. Instead, we're just meandering along in comfort because we know the。
right things to do. We know the right things to say. We know the right places to go. We know the。
right people to spend time with. And yet, we do all of these right things for all of the wrong reasons.。
And so, I wanted to take an evening to just challenge this idea and help us get on the。
same page of what it means to walk with Jesus rightly. And so, looking at verse 1,。
the right reason for walking with Jesus, we see it says this,。
"To the angel of the church in Ephesus write, 'The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right。
hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands.'" Now, what you need to know is that Jesus is speaking。
to the apostle John, and John is receiving a revelation, a vision from God for us. And what we。
know is that it's speaking specifically to the church at Ephesus in this moment. And so, what we。
should do is we should be good Bible students, and we should ask, "What do we know about Ephesus?"。
Well, a couple things that you should know about the place of Ephesus. Ephesus was the capital city。
of Asia Minor. It was socially advantageous to live there. It was an incredibly wealthy city,。
and it was politically strategic if you were a person of power. Like, it attracted the likes of。
anybody that was somebody. People like Alexander the Great, and Julius Caesar, and Cleopatra,。
and Mark Antony, they all made stops in Ephesus. It was like New York, right? Anybody that somebody。
lives there, if you can make it there, you can make it anywhere. And yet, what we know is it。
wasn't just an attractive spot for the rest of the world, it was also an attractive spot for。
Christians to go. Some of the most significant believers that we know of actually made their。
way through Ephesus. People like Paul, and Timothy, and John, Priscilla, Aquila, Tychicus,。
Apollos, all of them made their way through the church at Ephesus at some point. And I don't know。
about you, or who you podcast on Sundays, because the guy preaching up here may not be the guy that。
you want to listen to at different points, but what you need to know is that you don't need to。
podcast anybody else, because this is an NBA super team of talent. Like, their preaching rotation is。
stacked, because these people are unlike anybody else. These names may not mean much to you, and。
yet what you know is that the 27 books in the New Testament, 19 of them were pinned in some degree by。
these names in specific. Like, 19, 70% of your New Testament came from these people that taught at the。
church at Ephesus in some time. Like, this church had an embarrassment of riches when it came to。
spiritual influence. And the results, they corresponded accordingly. Like, we read it in。
verse 2 and 3. It says, "I know your works, your toil, your patient endurance, how you cannot bear。
with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found。
them to be false. I know you are enduring patiently, and you're bearing up for my namesake,。
and you have not grown weary." Like, can we just call it like it is? The Christians in Ephesus。
are better Christians than all of us. Like, what Jesus just said is he gave nine commendations,。
descriptors that approved of their religious zeal. Like, just how awesome they were,。
outwardly speaking. He says, "Hey, I know your works, your toil, patient endurance, you can't。
bear with those who are evil, tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, you found。
them to be false. I know you're also enduring patiently, bearing up for my namesake, and you've。
not grown weary." Like, these people are so zealous for the things of God to live the Christian life。
that if they were here in our modern time, like, they would literally, at five o'clock in the middle。
of rush hour, hop in their car, gas it up, and get out in the midst of traffic just so they could。
encourage people at the most heinous time of day. Like, that's how zealous they were for the。
goodness of God. They were zealous to live this life that God had called them to live. They're。
genuinely, hands down, more impressive than any one of us. And yet, the next thing that Jesus says。
is pretty alarming, because he says in verse four, "But I have this against you, despite all of that,。
you've abandoned the love you had at first."。
So let's just make sure we have this straight. Here we have a group of successful,。
persevering, theologically interested, and resilient believers who, in the eyes of the world,。
are the type of people that Jesus should be most proud of. Like, they're radically counter-cultural,。
they're obedient to the word, and yet Jesus just said, "Hey, I observe all of your outward obedience."。
And yet, when I cut straight to the inward heart, what I see is someone that,。
you may do all of the right things, but you do them for all of the wrong reasons.。
Like, there's not a white hot flame of affection for me. Instead, all you have is a cold sense of。
duty and doctrine. They looked the part. Like, they sang the songs, and they prayed the prayers,。
and they answered the questions, and they showed up on Tuesday nights, and they made sure to take。
down good notes, and make sure to take a picture to share with the rest of their followers on。
social media. They did all of the right things. They looked the part, but they had no heart.。
They abandoned their first love. That's what it says,。
which is an interesting way of describing what they did. They didn't forget their first love.。
They did not lose their first love. They didn't misplace their first love. They didn't lose that。
loving feeling at any given point in time. No, it says that they abandoned their first love.。
Like, this was a love that they did not lose. It's a love that they left. Are you tracking with me?。
Which begs the question, what did they do that led to that end? How did they fall out of love。
with God? Well, how do you fall out of love with anything? Well, one quick Google search,。
and you can read what psychologists would describe as being the primary reasons we fall out of love。
with anyone or anything. What do you see? You stop communicating. You have unrealistic expectations。
of the other person. You lack intimacy. You grow bored. You break trust. You even fall in love with。
someone else. I remember when I was 14 years old, me and some neighborhood buddies, we came up with。
this bright idea that we wanted to start a garage band. And so doing the only sensible thing, I。
decided I needed to buy a guitar because I wanted to be a part of the crew. And so I went and I bought。
a baby blue speckled Fender Stratocaster. And I love that thing. I love that guitar. Like, I love。
showing it to people, and I love talking about it with people, and I love the credibility it gave me。
amongst other people. The fact that I was in the band. And yet, if you asked me today,。
"Hey man, can you play the guitar?" I would say no. Why? Because though I outwardly loved。
that guitar, I inwardly did not love that guitar. Though I publicly loved that guitar, I privately。
did not love that guitar. Like, I would pull it out of the case, and I would take it,。
and I would show it, and I would talk about it. And yet, whenever I would go home,。
I'd put it on its stand. I'd push it to the corner. Much of the same way many of us。
take God and push him into some corner of our life until it is。
benefiting to pull him out and show him to those that are in our sphere of influence.。
You see, we don't want God. We want what God gives.。
And yet, it's not coincidental that in John 1:38, the very first question that Jesus ever。
asks the disciples is one that points straight to the heart of their affection. He asks them,。
"What do you want?" Not, "What do you know?" or "What do you need?" or "What do you believe?"。
"Where did you come from?" No, the first question Jesus ever asks his disciples is, "What。
do you want?" Because he knows whatever it is that you desire will ultimately drive your life.。
Like, what you want in life determines where you go in life. At least that's what Proverbs 4:23。
says. It says, "Above all else, guard your heart." Why? Because everything you do flows from it.。
Everything you do, it flows from your heart. Like, literally everything. There's no exception.。
What you want most determines what you want now. Like, what you want most determines what you want。
right now. Everything you do, everything you say, every place you go, every thought you think,。
everything you eat, it all points to the fact that you love whatever that is the most.。
So, when you look at your actions, how you spend your time, where it is you go, the words that you。
speak, what do those actions tell you about what you really, truly care about? Like, do you really。
care about your career? Like, you just want to have a seat at that table. You just want to ascend。
to that position. You just want to make it on Forbes 30 Under 30. Like, you're just trying to。
bank a million in this next year. Like, what is it for you? Is it your career? Maybe it's。
your relationship. Like, maybe it's spending time with that guy or that girl. Maybe it's the reason。
why you're willing to push physical boundaries, because what you really want is you want to be。
connected to that person, and you're willing to even bend the rules to make it happen. You're。
willing to compromise your purity to make it happen. Maybe it's not a relationship. Maybe it's。
an experience. Like, what you want is you know the days are numbered. I don't have long, Kylan,。
and so what I want is I want to live it up. I want to have a good time. I want to be happy in life.。
I want to make my days count. Maybe it's not experience. Maybe you just really care about。
what others think of you, so much so that you're willing to morally compromise, bend your integrity,。
even blur the lines between what's right and what's wrong just so people will think well of you.。
Maybe that's not the case. Maybe you care what people think of you so much that whenever you。
walk away from a conversation you had and you said something stupid or you did something dumb,。
you can't help but replay it over and over and over and over and over again, and all you do is。
beat yourself up over the fact that I can't believe I said that. That was so stupid. What do they。
think of me right now? You're riddled with social anxiety. Maybe you really care about Jesus,。
or you're just playing the Christian game. Like, do you say one thing but then do something else?。
Do you look the part when really you could care less?。
Friends, so many of us, we have an aptitude for God, but we do not have an appetite for God.。
Y'all tracking with me on that? We have an aptitude for God. We know。
this game is easy. It's not hard to be a Christian. Like, you just gotta be a good person.。
You just gotta do the right things. You just gotta say the right things. You gotta show up to the。
right places. Gotta spend time with the right people. Gotta make sure that you repent, you。
know? Like, it's not hard to play this game, and yet so many of us have, we have grown content with。
an aptitude for God, when in reality we need an appetite for God. Like, we have all the knowledge.。
We can handle ourselves in spiritual conversations. We can answer all of the questions, but we have。
lost the internal rumblings of wanting more of God for solely ourselves.。
We have no hunger pains for holiness. Like, seeing your friends and meeting other young adults and。
running into certain people here on Tuesday nights that you're really hoping you might。
bump into at some point, or serving even. Showing up on Sundays, singing the songs,。
enjoying the worship, taking notes down whenever the teaching's happening. Like,。
all of those are good things, but listen, they're not God things. They're not the best things.。
They're not the right thing. If you're showing up for those reasons and those reasons alone,。
then you want what God has to give, and you don't want God himself.。
So what do you do if this is you? Verse five tells us, "Remember therefore from where you've fallen,。
repent and do the works that you did at first. If not, I will come to you and I'll remove your。
lampstand from its place unless you repent." So how do you stir your affections for Jesus again?。
If you find yourself at a place tonight where, man, you're not actually walking in the warmth。
of his company, but you've subscribed instead to cold orthodoxy or comfortable Christianity,。
how do you reignite the flame of faith? How do you get your affections burning again?。
He tells us, "You remember, you repent, and you return." You remember. Like, you remember what。
it was like when you first met Jesus, where you were, how that felt. Like, you're reminded of the。
joy of your salvation, and then you repent. You look at these things which led you away from God,。
which distanced you away from his company, and you turn them aside. You push them off,。
and you move back towards him. You return. You go back to doing those things which catalyzed。
your love for God and all the affection he deserves in the first place. You remember,。
return. You remember, repent, and return. What you don't do is you don't recognize regret and repeat.。
Like, notice it doesn't say that. Like, you don't recognize that, "Yeah, man, like, I'm further away。
from God than I actually want to be, but I don't know necessarily how to get back." And then you。
regret the fact that, "Man, I shouldn't be here. I shouldn't have done that thing. I shouldn't have。
said those words. I shouldn't have heard that person." And then you, despite the fact that you。
know you shouldn't, you repeat it anyways. That's not what he's saying. He's not telling you to just。
recognize it's wrong, regret the fact that it happened, but then still repeat it. Come tomorrow,。
and then come the day following, and come the day thereafter. He's telling you to remember,。
return. Remember, repent, and return. And as I was prepping this, like, I know there's some of you。
here in the room, and you're like, "But, Kylan, like, it's too late. Like, I started off this。
year, and I had the best of intentions. Like, I really wanted it. Like, I wanted to walk with。
God this year. I wanted to give him my whole heart. I wanted to go all the way in. I wanted。
to push full tilt in my faith, and yet I did that thing, or I spent my time with that person, or I。
did that thing, and I can't take back. Like, I don't know what it is for you, and yet what you need to。
know is it's not too late. Your love may have run out, but your time has not run out. You can remember。
tonight. You can repent tonight, and you can return tonight. How do you do that? Well, we actually get。
a really good picture of what this looks like, some good handles to hold if we go back to the。
beginning of Ephesus. If we turn the page, if we rewind the tape, and we look at where they were。
before they abandoned their first love, and we see that in Acts chapter 19. You can turn there if you。
want. I'm going to have it on the screens, and I'll read it to you here, but what you need to know in。
Acts chapter 19, just for some background, is that Paul comes to the church in Ephesus, and he gives。
the Holy Spirit to some disciples he finds there, and what happens when he gives the Holy Spirit to。
these disciples is revival breaks out. Like, people start repenting of their sin. They commit their。
lives to Christ, and miracles are happening. Life for these people, it gets turned upside down,。
because that's what happens whenever you meet Jesus. Like, everything changes when you meet。
Jesus, and so we read this in Acts chapter 19, looking at verse 17, "And this became known to。
all the residents of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks, and fear fell upon them all, and the name of the。
Lord Jesus was extolled. Also, many of those who were believers, they came confessing and divulging。
their practices, and a number of those who had practiced magic arts, they brought their books。
together, and they burned them in the sight of all, and they counted the value of them, and they。
found it came to 50,000 pieces of silver." It's a lot of literature. "So the word of the Lord。
continued to increase and prevail mightily." So what can we learn from the life of these Ephesians。
at the beginning? Three things that correspond with remembering, repenting, and returning. The first。
is that if you want to remember, you've got to get focused on Jesus. That's the first point.。
If you want to remember, then you have to get focused on Jesus. If you're here, and the flame。
of faith has gone quietly dim in your life, you feel disenchanted with Jesus. You're not sure if。
this walk is really worth it. You feel like it might be too late. The first step you take。
on the road to remembrance is you get focused on Him. You get focused on Jesus. That's what it says。
in verse 17, that after seeing all that had been done in the name of Jesus, fear fell upon them all.。
Everyone who witnessed the power of God in the story, in the preceding verses, their response。
is they extolled Jesus as Lord. They look at Him, and they're like, "You're the God. You're the Lord.。
You're the master. You're the one in charge." That's their response. Now, we don't use the word。
extoll a whole lot in modern English, but the idea of extoll is to worship or to praise or to celebrate.。
It's what you do whenever you go to a big game, and you're supporting a team that you really love,。
and they score. You go to a concert, and that song comes on. "Boy, I've been waiting for that song."。
What response do you have? You lift your hands. You get a little bit indignified. You start。
bouncing around. You start slapping hands. You start cheering with the people around. You start。
to celebrate because you are worshiping something that's worthy of your worship. That's what's。
happening right here. Like the Ephesians, they experience wonder and awe, and the response is。
revival breaks out. Psalm 22, 3, it says that, "Yet you, God, are holy, and you're enthroned on the praises of Israel."。
That word "enthroned," it means that God inhabits or he dwells in the praises of his people.。
That's what Israel is. It's the people of God, and what's so significant about that。
is the fact that when we praise God, guess what? He's here. He's present.。
Like, just let that sink in on you, that when we sing, here in just a minute,。
God delights to inhabit。
your song. He wants to be here with his people.。
Their response is one of radical reverence,。
and yet ours is so often a response of casual indifference.。
This song again, I've heard this one already. We sang this on Sunday,。
and what we do is we move through the motions,。
and raise our hands in the right moments, beat our fists because we don't want to just stand still.。
We look the part, but we've lost the heart,。
and yet what we see for these Ephesians is that at the appearance of God's presence and power,。
they realize just how big he is and how small they are, and we have to do the same thing.。
How do we do it? Well, you remember, every single day you get focused on Jesus.。
Every single day you think as often and as much of Jesus as possible.。
As often and as much of Jesus as possible. Like, you give him quantity of thought,。
and you give him quality of thought. In the same way, if you're trying to get good at anything,。
if you're trying to learn to hit a golf ball, if you're trying to learn how to shoot a basket,。
if you're trying to learn how to shoot a gun, whatever it is for you, what you have to do。
is you have to put up a lot of shots, a quantity of repetitions, but you have to make the reps count.。
You also have to add to them quality of effort. That's what we do. That's how we get focused on。
Jesus. That's how we remember who he is, and we take this first step. What does that actually look。
like? Well, it varies. It depends on the person. What stirs your affections? Like, when you gather。
in here on Tuesday nights, or when you come in on Sundays, or you're spending time with。
God in the mornings, or whatever it is for you, what actually leads you to love God more?。
Whatever that is, you should do it. A lot. And with great intentionality. Like, that's the idea.。
Like, what I know is that if you want to grow in your love for Jesus, what you're going to have to。
do as you spend time with him is you're going to have to do what you would do with anybody. If you。
want to spend time and grow a relationship, you're gonna have to listen to him, and you're gonna have。
to talk to him. What relationship thrives without communication? The way we communicate with Jesus。
is we read his word, because all of this communicates who he is from him to us, and。
then we pray back. Because when we pray, we're not just lifting up empty thoughts and words that。
bounce upon the ceiling. No, we're talking to God. We're communicating with Christ. You read the word。
every single day. You pray often, in private and in company. You get outside, and you marvel at the。
spectacle of God's creation. You find reason to be grateful, because our world gives us plenty of。
reason to complain. You enjoy good food, because it's from God. You spend time with good people。
in a way that leaves you feeling innocent by the end of it all. You do whatever it takes for you to。
love God more by the end of the day than you did at the beginning of it. You got that? That's how。
you remember. That's where you first start. You do whatever it takes. And here's what you got to know,。
man. God comes wherever he's wanted. Like, if you're showing up, and you're wanting for God,。
and you're pursuing him in a way that accords with his word and is obedient to his will,。
he'll come to you. Like, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. God comes wherever it is。
he's wanted. So, if God feels far off, the question is not, "Where has he gone?" The question is,。
"Where have you gone?" That's the first point. Second point is in verse 18. It says, "Also,。
many of those who were believers, they came, confessing and divulging their practices."。
So, the second step to remembering your first love, to growing your affections for Christ,。
is you got to repent. And the way that you repent is you get honest about your sin.。
That's what we see here in verse 18. Like, that's how this works. Like, when you see Jesus for how。
perfect he is, you see yourself for how polluted you are. And the only natural thing to do in that。
moment, when you see how great he is and how wrong you are, is you repent. Like, that's what all。
revivals are forged upon. Like, that's the anvil upon which revivals are built. They're built upon。
repentance. Like, it doesn't start—like, a revival doesn't come to a city until it first comes to an。
individual. I think it's fascinating. I'll probably make some enemies for this. In our nation right。
now, people are so invigorated about the idea of revival. Like, they want a movement of God to just。
sweep over the nation. And I'm all for that. I think that's a great thing to desire. And yet,。
you cannot want for it to come to the nation before you want it to come to the person.。
It doesn't come to the masses. It comes to the one. National revival, it's birthed through。
personal renewal. Which is why we have to get honest about our sin. Like, personal renewal。
happens when we take a good, hard look inside of ourselves and we see, "Wait, what's wrong?"。
And we respond the same way they did. What we see from these Ephesians is they understand Jesus'。
willingness to forgive sins. And they're like, "What? What? Like, you're willing to forgive sins?。
Then, wait, wait. Here's everything I have. Here's all of my sin. If you're willing to forgive it,。
let me get it all out to you. Because I don't want any of it to go unforgiven. Like, I want all of it。
to be known. I want all of it to be—I want all of it to be covered. I want all of it to be washed.。
Jesus, this is everything I have. Let me tell you it all." Which is why it's so fascinating to me。
that we hide our sin from God and one another. Like, Jesus is wanting to forgive it. Like,。
he has the power to forgive sins, him and him alone. Like, he has the power to love the very。
worst version of you. And it's the very reason it came. Like, there is nothing in you that would。
ever turn him off, would ever turn him away, would ever lead him to say, "No, not you. You're。
the exception. Everybody else is great, but not you instead." No, like, your sin, it did not repel him.。
It compelled him. Like, it didn't push him off. It pulled him in. He saw where you were, and he's。
like, "I don't want that for my people. I'll do what it takes. I will swoop in and save the day.。
I will bear their sin. I will hang upon their cross. I will die their death, and I will rise。
from the grave for their sake." This is what Jesus is wanting, which is why we should be honest about。
our sin, and we should turn away from it. Second Peter 3, 9 says, "The Lord is not slow to fulfill。
his promises. Some count slowness, but he's patient towards you, not wishing that any should perish,。
but that all should reach repentance." Luke 15, 7 says, "I tell you in the same way,。
there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons。
who do not need to repent." You want to send the heavens into a ruckus accord? Then repent.。
That's all it takes. And let me just be really clear on this, because I think often we can get。
this confused. When I talk about repentance, I'm not talking about remorse. Repentance is not just。
feeling bad about the bad thing you did. It's turning away from the bad thing you did。
and moving back towards the only good one, which is God. It's leaving it behind. It's turning it。
away. Some of you here, you're so grieved over your sin, but not so much that you're ready to let it go.。
You're so eaten up, the struggle's so hard,。
yet you're not so consumed that you would finally let Jesus win the battle for you.。
The best thing some of you can do tonight, the bravest thing some of you can do tonight,。
is actually repent of that sin, that lingering sin, which has plagued you for so long.。
And the formula is not hard. It's acknowledge it, confess it, accept his grace, and walk away.。
That's all it takes. This could be, for some of you, the single moment that you've been wanting。
for all year to finally feel the freedom that Christ has afforded you. If you would come down,。
would repent of your sin, and leave it here forever. Do you want that? Because that's。
on the table tonight. You can have that. That's available here.。
That's available here. If you want to stir your affections for Jesus, then you got to repent.。
Because God, he is closest to honest sinners than silent sufferers. The third thing we see。
if we want to remember our first love is we have to return, which means that we have to get really。
serious about surrender. We got to get really serious about surrender. That's what it says in。
verses 19 through 20. "And a number of those who had practiced magic arts, they brought their books。
together and they burned them in the sight of all. And they counted the value of them and they found。
it came to 50,000 pieces of silver." Like the Ephesians, they fall so in love with Jesus that。
they start regularly repenting and they burn up these books from their old way of life. Like all。
of these books about magical arts and divination, they once cherished them. And yet, the minute they。
realized that they stand in opposition to their true love, they strike a match and they get rid。
of them. Like they got so serious about their surrender that nothing would stand in the way。
of them getting more of Jesus. And we have to do the same. Like there are some things here tonight。
that are robbing you of your love for Christ. Robbing you. What do you do to prevent being。
robbed? You lock your doors. You set your alarms. You install some cameras. Like I remember when my。
wife and I bought our house in Houston, it came with a security system installed. And I loved it.。
Not just because I could check out the footage, see what was going on down the street. But because I。
knew I was able to protect the ones I loved. Some of you are getting robbed and you're doing nothing。
about it. Like the enemy is swooping in to steal your joy, take your affection, and you're letting。
him. When in reality, there are steps you can take tonight. So let's talk about those. Like really。
practically. Like there are some things in your life, and here's the thing, like they may not be。
bad things. They may be totally morally neutral that you need to give up. Like social media that。
stirs up comparison. Staying over at your boyfriend's house because it's just too late.。
Playing sports because you get overly competitive. That was one for me. Hanging out with those。
friends that you always have one too many with. Listening to that music or watching that TV show.。
Whatever it is, and this is the point, we have to get serious about setting those things aside.。
Whatever's robbing your affection of Jesus, you have got to cut it out of your life.。
You have to light it on fire. You have to burn it where it stands. You've got to get serious about。
surrender. Here's the thing, and I know that this is a really heavy talk. I knew that coming in,。
I felt this pressure to like load this thing up with a bunch of stories, to get a bunch of laughs,。
and yet what I care more about than hearing your laughter is hearing your learning.。
Knowing that you're actually comprehending the truth of God's word.。
And so this is another hard thing that I want to tell you.。
Some of you, you want so badly for the anointing that God has on someone else's life, and yet you're。
not willing to pay the price to get it. Like some of you want so badly for the blessing that God has。
put on somebody else's life, but you're not willing to pay the price to get it. Like some of you want。
so badly to get the kind of adoration that God has given to someone else, and yet you're not willing。
to pay the price to get it. Here's what you have got to know. The price of what you lose in this。
world, it is nothing in comparison to the prize of what you will find in Christ. That's why you have。
to give whatever it takes, because you get everything and more. Like that's the promise of。
Christ. Like in him is all the riches and fullness and glory of God. Why would you look anywhere else。
for it? Like nothing's worth having if it keeps us from having him. So last story.。
It was this Tuesday, exactly one year ago, when I preached my final message here at the porch。
before I accepted the offer to become the director here in Dallas.。
And I remember like when my wife and I made the trip down to spy out the land and see if this is。
where God wanted us, we were really conflicted. Which is funny for people when I say that,。
because they're like, "What are you talking about, man? Like it's the porch." And yet we were a part。
of something that was amazing. Like in a ministry where God was moving and lives were changing and。
stories were shaping and ministry was growing. Like we were a part of something so significant。
that was right at the heart of who God was and what he wanted for people. And so when we came。
here, I was like, "Man, it's going to take a lot to just get us out of where we've been. It's going。
to take more than just a big room with a lot of people and multiple streaming sites across the。
nation. Like that's not enough. Like I don't want to just show up and be the weekly entertainment.。
Like I don't care about the widespread crowds. I care about the lives of people.。
God moving in your story. And what I know is it's happening where we are. And so God, I need to know。
if it's going to happen where we're going. And so I showed up here and I preached a year ago today.。
And I remember asking God, "Lord, what I want to see when I'm begging you to give the confirmation。
I require, if you'd be gracious enough to give it, is I need to see hunger. Hunger.。
Desire in the lives of these people to not just hang their hat on the fact that, man, like the。
porch is awesome. Look at what God's done. But to believe that God's not finished. That he's still。
doing something in this city, in your city, and in every city. Not because of who we are,。
because of who he is. And as I preached that night, a stranger to this room and every single one of。
you in attendance, I remember I closed my Bible, shut my iPad, said amen, and walked off this。
platform. And as I did, I heard applause. Now that can feel really silly to you, like a trite。
confirmation. And yet it wasn't an applause that approved of me. It was an applause that approved。
of this, that agreed with the word and the God therein. It was an applause from a people。
that had been fed by this truth and were hungry for more.。
And I remember, like, when I walked off that platform,。
what I felt in that moment was what I feel still today, that God is far from finished in this place.。
Not just because we've got great facilities and a really talented band and all the right。
production equipment. No, none of those things. God is far from finished because of people like。
you and the hunger you have. Some of you are here and you have lost that hunger,。
but you can find it again tonight. God comes wherever it is he's wanted.。
Are you wanting for him this evening? We know that Jesus Christ has proven all of this to us。
because while we now know we should get focused on Christ, he never lost sight of you.。
Well, now we know we should be honest about our sin. Jesus loved your honest self most of all.。
And while we now know that we should be serious about surrender, Jesus was so serious。
about himself that he surrendered his life for your sake and mine.。
Are you hungry? He is wanting for you. He is willing to give the kind of life you want。
and even better still. Remember, repent and return. God, we're grateful for tonight.。
Thank you for this time. God, I just confess as I stand on this platform and I worked through。
this message, I was unsure of how this content would land. Knowing God that it's heavy,。
it can feel hard, even inaccessible to some, to those here, God, that don't know you.。
And yet, Lord, what I'm begging, what I'm praying。
is that people would know here at the porch。
and in the lives of those that gather in this room,。
we will not settle for disenchanted discipleship,。
but we want to walk in all the wonder and splendor and beauty you and you alone afford.。
We want you. God, we want you. Come to us now. Come to us now.。
