(gentle music)。
- Well hello, Porch friends, how we doing?。
(audience cheering)。
I love being here on Tuesdays.。
Thank you for having me tonight.。
We have prayed much already, so I shall dive right in.。
We're wrapping up a series that we've been doing here,。
if you haven't been around, and I know I've met some folks。
who are here for the first time, we're glad you're here.。
But we've been walking through a series called Adulting.。
What we're looking at here is just a mature view on life.。
The Bible says, "When I was a child, I thought as a child."。
But I gotta let those things go away。
'cause I'm not a child anymore.。
There is a phrase that has been laid on your generation,。
which I believe is not necessary or correct。
if you don't want it to be.。
And that is that you are the generation。
of perpetual adolescence.。
In other words, you just don't wanna grow up.。
Hashtag adulting, man.。
Every now and then, you'll do things that look like。
what a grownup would do,。
but you're just not ready to get it done.。
So we date like children,。
we think of relationships like children,。
we forego family and responsibility like children,。
we play with faith like children,。
and not in the way that Jesus commands.。
We deal with our money like children.。
We talk about things of corporate。
and communal relationships like children,。
and I'm telling ya, it won't go well with you。
if you do that.。
And so we're not talking about what it means。
to be a generation of men and women,。
and not just any men or any women,。
but godly, spiritually appraised, informed men or women,。
so that it might go well with you.。
Let me just start by saying this,。
because every chance I get,。
if I could speak only on one topic,。
it would be on the nature and character of God.。
Why?。
Because my job is to be a servant of Christ。
and a steward of the mysteries of righteousness.。
I've got nothing to offer you except what I've been given,。
and I want to proclaim to you the excellencies of God.。
And that starts with understanding who God is。
and what he's done for you,。
but the reason I want to talk about who God is。
and what he's done for you is because the very first lie。
out of the chute attacked the very nature of God.。
And the problem that all of us have。
and the reason that we act like children,。
or if you will, impetuous, feeling-driven,。
emotionally-based people,。
is because we don't believe that there is a God。
who is good, that we are culpable to,。
that is sovereign, and that is wise, and that he loves us.。
And so we suppress truth and unrighteousness。
because we think that running away from this authority。
figure is what's going to give us authentic life.。
That lie doesn't just affect millennials.。
It affects folks 20 years ahead of you like me,。
and it affects folks 10 years behind you.。
It affects everybody.。
It's the first lie right out of the chute.。
God isn't good, his word's not true,。
disobeying him is not that big a deal.。
The very first lies that came.。
Now you need to know this about God。
because one of the things that a wise and mature person。
will do is he won't jump to conclusions。
based on just some preliminary examination of the facts.。
He knows that not every good book has a great cover.。
And so he wants to see what the depths。
of the content are there.。
Now when you want to find out who somebody is,。
you listen to their words because the words。
are the overflow of a man's heart.。
And then you want to look not just at their words,。
but how their works back up their words.。
So let me just take you to the words and works of God.。
What God has done in this book called the Bible,。
the book, that's an arrogantly titled book,。
the Biblias, the book, it is the one book you need to know.。
Why?。
Because it's the one book that tells you。
where you came from, why you're here,。
why while you're here the world is in the condition。
that it's in, what to do about that condition,。
why you can live with hope in the midst of this condition,。
and what the remedy to your condition is.。
The Bible is not a rule book, it is a love letter from God.。
It is his effort to explain to you things。
that eye hasn't seen, ear hasn't heard,。
things that haven't entered into the mind of man.。
The Bible is trying to let God share with you。
what is going on in his story.。
And what's happened is we're living in his story。
in a moment in time that is not as he desired,。
but because he is not a divine rapist,。
he does not impose on us that which we do not choose.。
God is a God of relationship,。
and because he's a God of relationship,。
he has given us the ability to make decisions.。
And because we have the ability to make decisions,。
some of our decisions can go in a way。
that though they seem right to us in the beginning,。
they end up as the way of death, just like children.。
Children sometimes think, if I eat this way,。
it'll be good for me, 'cause it always tastes good up here.。
But we know if you always eat what tastes good,。
it doesn't always go well with you from the neck down.。
It won't look good, and it won't feel good。
if you just put in your mouth whatever tastes good.。
Children run into danger, they don't know the difference。
between a rope and a snake, a curb and a cliff.。
And they need somebody to guide them.。
So I wanna tell you, what God has done in this book。
is he's told you that we are in the condition。
that we're in because we have rejected this idea。
that God is good, and that we can find life and light。
and hope and love and satisfaction in him,。
even though everything in the human experience early on。
testified that that was the case.。
We believed the lie, God wasn't good.。
The reason, the liar said, that he doesn't want us。
to eat of the tree of good and evil。
is not because we should show faith in him。
and have a relationship with him。
rooted in our own election.。
And the reason that, that's why God put it there,。
and the reason that God doesn't want us to eat of that tree。
is not because he thinks if we eat it。
we can be as smart as him and not need him,。
it's because he knows that nobody。
is intrinsically good except him.。
Our goodness comes from him.。
And knowing good and evil, we won't always choose。
that which is good.。
Can I get an amen from this crowd on this?。
Most of the mistakes that we make, even in our 20s,。
is not a mistake that we make from a lack of information.。
We know that probably ain't right.。
Okay, being addicted to two-dimensional images of women。
and finding my sexual satisfaction there。
and finding my affirmation from women there。
in a fantasy world is probably not the best route to go.。
It'd be much better if I could really share my heart。
and soul with another and enjoy in reality。
what is only a fantasy for me.。
I am not all pro if I'm all maddened on Xbox.。
And so I'm not gonna sit there and wear a Hall of Fame。
jacket 'cause I kick tail in some Xbox league。
and wonder why the world doesn't take note.。
I know that to be a man really in that small world。
of football, I gotta get out there。
and compete where it matters.。
And yet some of us give more time to being great。
with our thumbs than we do be actually great in our living.。
There's so many illustrations that most of the mistakes。
we make are not mistakes made because of a lack of knowledge.。
See, God says, look, here's your deal, Wagner.。
You can know everything that I know,。
but you're not gonna do what I do。
'cause you're not intentionally good.。
What you need is a relationship with me.。
And the reason I don't want you to eat of this tree。
that will make you think you don't need me。
is because you do need me.。
And the day you don't think you need me,。
you'll start doing things that seem right to you。
but will end up with death.。
So the story goes that we bought the lie。
that we don't need God.。
We bought the lie that he wasn't good,。
that his word wasn't true.。
And we bought the lie that disobeying him。
was not that big a deal.。
And that got us to 2016 and where we are.。
But here's what you need to know about God.。
In Deuteronomy chapter four, God is starting to tell you。
a little bit about who he is and what he is like.。
And he's going to do that by developing。
a relationship with people.。
And he's going to choose a certain group of people。
to work with, not because he loves those people。
more than other people, but because he's gonna show。
the world that through these people。
who he will give eyes to see, ears to hear,。
and hearts to respond, by the way that they begin。
to walk with God again, and by the way that they are blessed。
other nations would go, hey, what's going on with you?。
And they were to respond, not we're better than you,。
smarter than you, brighter than you,。
we got a better military than you.。
They were to respond, we have come to know。
that God is good and we have walked with him.。
So this is what God said to this group of people。
that he chose to reveal himself to.。
This is Deuteronomy chapter four, verse 32.。
He says, indeed, ask now concerning the former days。
which were before you, since the day that God created。
man on the earth, and inquire from one of the heavens。
to the other.。
In other words, go look back through all of human history.。
Has anything been done like this great thing,。
which is you who were lost and in darkness。
have been called out of darkness into this great light.。
Has anybody ever heard of anything like this?。
This isn't just some myth, this is anchored in history.。
Verse 33, has anybody heard the voice of God。
speaking from the midst of a fire。
as you have heard it and survived?。
No, God, the very God of creation,。
the power of the internal earth has come to you。
and told you something, or has a God tried to take。
for himself a nation from another nation。
by trials, by signs, and by wonders,。
and by war and a mighty hand and an outstretched arm?。
Now watch this, and by great tears。
as the Lord has done for you, know that the Lord,。
he is God, there is no other beside him,。
it says in verse 35.。
This is the God you've come to know.。
This is the words of Moses as he's getting ready。
to advocate his leadership, pass it on。
to the next generation of leaders,。
and he's telling them, just observe who you are,。
where you've come from, why you've been given。
what you've been given, out of the heavens,。
he lets you hear his voice to discipline you,。
and on earth he let you see his great fire,。
the scripture says, and you heard his words。
in the midst of the fire, why?。
Why does God give us his words?。
The scripture tells us in verse 37,。
because he loves your fathers.。
Therefore he chose to love the children of those fathers,。
and he personally brought you out of slavery。
and bondage and oppression from wicked rulers,。
which is represented by Egypt to the Israeli people,。
by his great power.。
You didn't do anything except follow God to life,。
just like in the New Testament.。
And when you got into this land you're about to go in,。
he's gonna drive out nations that are greater。
and mightier than you to bring you。
and to give you in their land for an inheritance。
as it is today, know therefore today,。
watch this, we're getting to the point,。
know therefore today and take it into your heart。
that the Lord, he is God in heaven, above,。
and on the earth below, there is no other.。
Know that he is God, know that he is good,。
know that his word is true, know that he's trying。
to save you from oppression, the oppression of self,。
or some sick other human who is trying。
to establish himself by oppressing you.。
And he says this to you, so you shall keep his statutes。
and his commandments which I am giving you today.。
That's not new information, right,。
that God wants you to listen to him,。
but I want you to listen to why.。
That it might go well with you。
and with your children after you,。
and that you may live long in the land。
which the Lord your God is giving you for all time.。
Did you see what the heart of God is?。
The heart of God is that you would grow up。
and not think like an impetuous child。
who always thinks he knows more than other people。
and who will throw fits and tantrums and cry。
and use intimidations and every manipulation。
known to humankind to get what they want。
because they are absolutely certain。
that their dad must hate them。
because he doesn't pour Mountain Dew on his Lucky Charms。
breakfast, lunch, and dinner.。
And yet that dad goes, listen, I'd love nothing more。
than to give you a bowl of ice cream every now and then.。
I love the marshmallow, you know,。
in that little bad sugar-coated wheat inside Lucky Charms,。
but we can't live like that.。
It's not because I'm mean.。
It's 'cause I love you.。
And see, what happens as you grow,。
you start to understand。
that your mom wasn't just a jerk。
and your dad wasn't oppressive.。
They really wanted it to go well with you,。
and so you start then to act like them。
and feed yourself like them。
and hopefully walk like they wanted you to walk。
if you had parents who pushed you in that direction.。
This is the story of who God is.。
He is our Father.。
Some of you guys did have parents。
who loved you well and led you well.。
And God, the Scripture says,。
has a special place in his heart for you.。
And he doesn't want you to continue。
the legacy of dysfunction.。
He wants it to go well with you,。
that it might go well with your children after you,。
and that you might live long in the land,。
not be defined by despair.。
Now, here's the thing.。
The way things go with leaders。
is typically the way things go with the land.。
The reason I love to talk to the porch。
is because this is true.。
The philosophy of schoolchildren in one generation。
will be the philosophy of government in the next.。
Let me say that again.。
The philosophy of schoolchildren in one generation。
will be the philosophy of government in the next.。
And so what you're seeing in America today。
is leadership that has not been discipled。
and that acts like children。
and that doesn't know that there is a God。
who they should trust in,。
that if they trust in him,。
it will go well with them and for their children,。
and they will live long in the land.。
What you're seeing is that we are about。
to put ourself in a position。
where our land is no longer secure.。
If there's anybody that's suffering in America today,。
it is children, and it is not going well with us in general.。
We keep pretending we don't have $19 trillion in debt.。
We keep pretending that annihilating 60 million Americans。
because they seem inconvenient to us is not a problem.。
And the fact that we don't keep adding workers。
to our workforce that would go to work。
and contribute to the social welfare system。
and the fact that they're absent。
isn't part of the reason that we have a problem。
supporting this generation of folks who aren't working now.。
We just suppress the truth that unrighteousness。
is not going well with us,。
and there's going to be a day very soon。
when we are not secure in the land,。
and I'm gonna tell you,。
already we see our children suffering immensely.。
Depression is at an all-time high with children.。
Suicide rates at an all-time high with children.。
Drug use, medicating ourselves, all-time high.。
Emptiness, lostness, despair,。
fracture in the home, all-time high.。
Because we don't have leaders who are adults,。
who understand truth and consequences.。
And God loves you.。
Here's what I want to tell you something.。
You guys look at this and you go,。
"What is this world that our parents have given us?"。
And you probably look specifically。
at leadership and government and you go,。
"I don't have any interest in government.。
"I have no interest in politics。
"because politics is not the source of my hope."。
And let me just encourage you,。
you are absolutely right when you say。
politics are not the source of your hope,。
but I'm gonna tell you something.。
Politics are something that you're responsible for.。
And the source of your hope。
wants you to have an effective politic.。
And what I'm gonna talk to you tonight about。
is having an adult view of government, policy, and politics.。
Because let me tell you,。
right now in this generation,。
apathy towards politics is at an all-time high.。
And on one hand, I wouldn't blame you。
because you go and say。
there's nothing but corruption that is there.。
Let me just read you a few quotes。
that have been around when you start to think about。
politics in general.。
And I love these because you're not the first people。
that have been discouraged。
when you start to think about politics and how they go.。
John Adams.。
That's like, "We're just getting started, John Adams."。
Said this, "That in my many years,。
"I have come to a conclusion。
"that one, useless man is a shame.。
"Two is a law firm.。
"Three is Congress."。
All right?。
And that's like right out of the chute.。
Mark Twain said this, "Suppose you were an idiot.。
"And suppose you were a member of Congress."。
"But I repeat myself."。
That's what he said.。
G. Gordon Liddy, who worked in the Nixon administration,。
said this.。
He said, "A liberal, or somebody who doesn't live by laws。
"that are right, is someone who feels a great debt。
"to his fellow man, which debt he proposes to pay off。
"with your money."。
He didn't trust folks in government.。
P.J. O'Rourke, a guy that was another leader and thinker,。
said, "If you think healthcare is expensive now,。
"wait until you see what it costs when it's free."。
And one guy said this 400 years before Christ.。
"Just because you don't take an interest in politics。
"doesn't mean politics won't take an interest in you."。
In other words, let me just tell you something, guys.。
Politics comes from the root word which means citizen.。
When you talk about politics,。
you're talking about citizenry.。
One of the same words that has the same root word。
as citizenry is the word for polite.。
In other words, politics is us talking about governance.。
How are we going to live?。
What is right, what is wrong,。
what is going to make it go well with us,。
and what is going to lead to despair?。
And so if you, Christian, if you,。
a person who's supposed to seek the welfare。
of the city in which you live, why?。
Because you're like your father。
who seeks the welfare of people。
and seeks to rescue them from darkness。
and deliver them to light.。
You, who are here as aliens and strangers,。
'cause you don't live like the rest of the children。
who don't know that there is a set standard。
of righteousness and good given you by a loving father。
who wants it to go well with you,。
you seek the welfare of others。
by being heralds of righteousness。
and declaring to others the way, the truth,。
and where life can be found.。
You should be concerned with the way。
that men govern their lives,。
because the way that men govern their lives。
will lead to the way that men live.。
And so you can't afford to be apathetic,。
apathetic from the word pathos, which means emotion.。
We get empathy.。
I feel your pain.。
If you are apathetic, it means you don't really care.。
One kid was asked by his teacher one day,。
"Hey man, what's apathy mean?"。
Johnny, and Johnny, "I don't know, I don't care."。
Okay, so that was the only question he got right, right?。
That's what apathy means.。
We can't afford to be apathetic about conduct.。
The same root word for politics。
is the same word for polite.。
The word polite is the word for what is right.。
The word right is the same root word for righteousness.。
If we're not concerned for righteousness,。
what are we concerned with?。
And the reason that God is concerned for righteousness。
is because he's concerned with you.。
And so I'm just gonna tell you something, gang.。
You don't have the option to sit back there。
and just say, "I don't care about polity,。
"governance, politics."。
The idea of being a citizen, that's an office in our country。
we have a country that is a government of the people,。
by the people, for the people, and God is for people.。
And so he wants you to govern in a way。
that leads to blessing.。
What you are doing when you vote。
is you are delegating your right to rule to somebody else.。
And so you better not be apathetic about that.。
You better care deeply about who your rulers are,。
and you better want to know who rules your ruler.。
If you're not actively, gang,。
taking on the swift destruction that's in our land,。
if you're not paddling against wrong,。
then you are being swept away。
by the current of unrighteousness.。
And it is the job of adults to say enough is enough.。
And I'm gonna tell you something,。
your generation had better grow up.。
Because we need you, because a lot of people。
in my generation have failed you.。
And so I'll tell you what you can do.。
You can say, "My daddy was a drunk,。
"my daddy left my mama, so I'm gonna be a drunk。
"and I'm gonna leave my mama."。
And guess what, your kids will be just as angry as you.。
You can say, "My mom medicated herself into numbness,。
"my mom slept with six, seven, eight different guys。
"while I lived in the home with her,。
"and so I'm just gonna find my significance。
"and prostitute myself out to men in my 20s。
"and probably all the way through my life, just like mama."。
And you can be just as miserable as mom.。
Or you can say, "I'm gonna break the chain.。
"And I'm gonna maybe be the first person in generations。
"to start to not live like a child."。
And so I'm just gonna tell you, we, my generation,。
some of us have tried,。
but there has not been enough of us to make a difference.。
And we are giving you a problem.。
What children do when there's problems。
is they grab their blankie,。
they stick their thumb in their mouth,。
they go in the corner and they curl up and they go,。
(kissing)。
and I'm gonna tell you, we can't afford。
to have another generation of children.。
We need you to be men.。
We need you to be on the alert,。
to stand firm in the faith, to act like men,。
to be strong, to let everything you do be done in love.。
It is time for a generation to rise up。
and to understand truth.。
It is a fact that your generation is, right now,。
the major reason that a socialist。
is getting a lot of attention for leadership in his party.。
Socialism sounds like a great idea to children.。
I'm not gonna do anything,。
I'm gonna sleep in on Saturdays,。
I'm gonna play Xbox,。
and I expect there to be good food on my table。
in the evening.。
I'm gonna work out, I'm gonna be infatuated by body,。
I'm gonna play with myself and play with others' bodies,。
and I'm gonna expect to get to do that again the next day.。
If it's hard, I don't wanna do it very long.。
I want what I want, that's what children say.。
Somebody else can do the work.。
Feed me, clothe me, dress me, take care of me,。
and it will not go well with you.。
Now look, before I talk more about socialism in general,。
let me just tell you that I'm not wild。
about any of the solutions that are being put before you。
that are out there.。
I don't know if you guys have seen this little meme。
that's been out there right now.。
There's Sanders, there's Trump,。
there's Hillary, there's Cruz.。
(audience laughing)。
I ain't gonna go with Pinestraw.。
You ever feel like that?。
You're like, what the, you know, why?。
That's why you're apathetic.。
Hey, let me just say something to you real quick,。
because people ask me this time,。
what do I do right now?。
How do I vote?。
How do I determine how I participate。
as a person charged by God and given the freedom。
to have an office in a democratic republic,。
which means that we have the right。
to delegate authority for governance to other people.。
What do I do if I don't see anybody fit there?。
Well, I'll tell you what you don't do.。
Sometimes you can vote for the lesser of two evils,。
and this is important.。
I want you to listen to me.。
Until Jesus Christ himself runs for office,。
you will always be voting for the lesser of two evils.。
The Bible says all men are liars.。
Jesus says that when you look at a woman。
with lust in your heart, you commit adultery,。
but watch, listen to me.。
While it's true that compared to the righteousness of God,。
all men are liars, that doesn't mean you hire somebody。
who habitually practices deceit.。
Just because it's a fact that if you look at somebody。
with lust in your heart, you're an adulterer,。
it doesn't mean, gals, that you just marry a guy。
and you ignore his philandering ways.。
There are individuals who the direction of their life。
is not towards deceit, although compared。
to the holiness of God, all men are liars.。
There is none who does right.。
It's always the lesser of two evils,。
but is there a man whose practice。
and who the direction of their life, not the perfection,。
but the direction of their life is towards rightness?。
Are they humble?。
Are they ruled by a wisdom that is more。
than just the polls of the day?。
Do they know that there is a God who intends it。
to go well with them, who defines morality, not culture?。
And there are times when you will look。
at different candidates and you'll say,。
I think I can support this candidate,。
but I'm gonna tell you, there are certain things。
that you look at in candidates and you go,。
I can't call that a lesser of evils.。
That is flat evil.。
When you have somebody who says as part。
of their effort to be in office,。
I think it's okay to kill people,。
you cannot delegate your authority to that person.。
When you say, I think it's okay to treat people differently。
because of the color of their skin,。
or their gender, or their nationality,。
to oppress them, to treat them as worms,。
or cockroaches, or as less than human,。
you cannot vote for that person.。
Because you can't delegate your authority to them,。
so you'll tell, what do I do if it's them or Pinestrong?。
Okay, one of the things that really bothers me。
is I hear people say this, well, I'm not gonna vote。
for that person because they're not electable,。
not enough people will vote for them,。
and so if I vote for them, I'm throwing my vote away.。
You are never throwing your vote away。
when you stand for righteousness, ever, okay?。
And what happens is too many people have bought the lie。
that you can't elect somebody like that,。
and all of a sudden, we quit pursuing something like that.。
Do you guys know that maybe what we think。
is the greatest president who ever lived, Abraham Lincoln,。
when he ran, there were two primary parties。
in our system of government.。
They were the Whigs and the Democrats,。
and he ran as a third-party candidate,。
something called a Republican, and he got elected.。
Sometimes, a third-party candidate won't get elected,。
but what he'll do is he'll start to awaken the country。
to something better, and people sometimes don't think。
that there is something better out there。
because everybody either settled or was apathetic,。
didn't care, and didn't participate.。
You don't have that freedom.。
Adults don't put their thumb in their mouth。
and sit in the corner and sulk.。
They seek justice, they do good, they speak up,。
they stand firm, they stay humble, and they serve their king.。
So sometimes, gang, you might have different views。
on certain financial policies,。
you might have different views。
on even certain immigration policies。
about who we should let in。
and how we should deal with folks who are here illegally,。
and you might say that's a lesser of two evils,。
but there are certain things where you're gonna say,。
"I cannot vote for a lesser of two evils。
"because I can't delegate my authority to evil."。
And if that is the case, you write in, you speak up,。
you tell people why you can't,。
and you rally support behind somebody。
whose direction is towards righteousness,。
and maybe eventually, we'll have something better.。
But you cannot not vote because our country's leaders。
are not chosen by people who have the right to vote.。
Our country's leaders are chosen by people who vote.。
And actually get in there and do it.。
And adults don't back down.。
They go to work, and they stand firm.。
So let me just say to you, as individual citizens。
who are concerned, therefore, with,。
as the Latin word for citizen is the same word as politic,。
it's a politike, and that person is concerned。
with governance, he governs himself well,。
and he decides to have others govern the land well.。
Let me tell you that one of the problems we have。
is that only a virtuous people。
are capable of enduring freedom.。
As nations become more and more corrupt,。
as they become slaves to more and more masters,。
they will be victims of more and more tyranny.。
In fact, when the Constitutional Convention in 1787 gathered。
and there was a lot of secrecy about what was happening。
and putting together the Constitution,。
a lady caught Benjamin Franklin as he was walking out。
of the Constitutional Convention, and she said,。
"Mr. Franklin, what kind of republic have you given us?。
"What kind of government have you given us?。
"Is it a republic or is it a monarchy?"。
And with no hesitation, Franklin looked at her,。
and he said, "It is a republic, ma'am,。
"if you care to keep it."。
Now, how do you keep it?。
You keep it in the way that our early leaders said。
that we should keep it.。
Listen to some of this stuff right here,。
and then I'm gonna tell you guys what we can do。
in light of where we are.。
This is George Washington。
at our very first presidential inauguration speech.。
He says, "The foundation of our national policy。
"will be laid in the pure and immutable principles。
"of private morality.。
"The propitious smiles of heaven。
"can never be expected on a nation。
"that disregards the eternal rules of order and right。
"which heaven itself has ordained."。
John Adams said, "Our constitution was made。
"only for a moral and religious people.。
"It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other."。
One guy said this about government in general。
when he took a look at everything that was going on,。
and that is this, that the best argument against democracy。
is a five-minute conversation with the average voter.。
"Democracy," one guy said,。
"gives every man the right to be his own oppressor."。
In other words, once people figure out。
that they can vote for themselves their own entitlements,。
it's the beginning of the end.。
This is why you have got to speak up to your generation。
who has somebody running for national leadership。
in the same way that you ran for class president。
in the fourth grade.。
How'd you do that?。
- If you make me class president,。
we'll have ice cream every day for lunch。
and pizza every day,。
and we'll have summer recess, we'll go for six months,。
and lollipops and cotton candy。
and finally they just pull you off the stage, right?。
(audience laughing)。
But people are like,。
"Wow, he's gonna give us ice cream every day for lunch.。
"Let's vote for Todd."。
(audience laughing)。
Well, Todd didn't exactly approve that with the school board。
and those that fund ice cream every day for lunch.。
And so I just wanted to say this to you guys。
because that's a child's view.。
Let somebody else work for me.。
I'm gonna be lazy and selfish.。
So I wanna just acknowledge this.。
The inherent vice of capitalism,。
by the way, Churchill said this.。
The inherent vice of capitalism。
is an unequal share of the blessings.。
Some people work hard and get more,。
or some people work and get lucky.。
And so within a capitalistic society,。
there is an unequal sharing of the blessings,。
but the inherent blessing of socialism。
is the equal sharing of misery.。
Margaret Thatcher said the problem with socialism。
is that eventually you run out of other people's money.。
I love this quote by a guy named Herbert Spencer.。
He said, "The ultimate result of shielding men。
"from the effects of folly。
"is that they'll fill the world with fools."。
You can't legislate the poor into prosperity。
by legislating the wealthy out of prosperity.。
It just doesn't happen.。
What one person receives without working for,。
or another person must work for without receiving,。
that's a problem.。
And what happens is when half the people get the idea。
they don't have to work。
because somebody else is gonna work for them。
and they will take care of them,。
then when the other half gets the idea。
that it's no good to work。
because they don't get taken care of。
with their own effort and work,。
then nobody works and then you've got real problem.。
That's the problem with socialism.。
I love this meme that's been put out there right now。
that just says, "Hey, look, man, here we go."。
Right?。
So, hey, I took half of your sign。
because you had one and I didn't.。
I'm sure you understand.。
See, that's the problem with socialism right there, okay?。
That's not the way it works, children.。
You go to work, you take care of yourself,。
you take care of those who cannot take care of themselves.。
You're generous and because you are not just a capitalist,。
but you're a capitalist whose life is informed by Christ,。
you, like him, though you are rich,。
become poor for the sake of others,。
just like Jesus did for us.。
All right?。
So, gang, listen.。
[audience applauding]。
Your generation is feeding off。
this fourth grade elementary school candidacy.。
Your generation is apathetic towards what is polite,。
political, right, righteous.。
We can't do that.。
There's 83 million of you.。
You have the ability to go,。
"Hey, look, I came from a dysfunctional family。
"who for the last 16 years and the 10 years before that。
"and the 10 years before that has lived irresponsibly.。
"I'm not gonna continue the cycle of madness。
"that my parents have given me.。
"I'm gonna say we're gonna break the chain.。
"And I'm not gonna be apathetic about how we're governed.。
"I'm gonna get engaged.。
"I'm gonna cast my vote for righteousness。
"and I'm not gonna delegate my right to rule。
"to people that aren't ruled rightly."。
That's what adults do.。
So here's what I would just encourage you guys with.。
I would encourage you guys in the midst of this situation。
that we're in is to know this,。
that anarchy and rebellion is easy.。
But administration, okay, which is righteous rule, it's not.。
And children always do what's easy.。
Adults do what's hard.。
If they're good adults, right,。
that's what you wanted your dad to do,。
to do the hard thing 'cause it was right for the family.。
And some of you guys don't like dad。
because he advocated his role.。
And this is your time.。
And so if you see poor leadership before you learn from it。
and don't repeat their sins,。
somebody has to say enough and make it your generation.。
Let's change this thing.。
And say, "I'm not gonna vote."。
Certain people, they're not just the lesser of two evils.。
That is evil and I will not support that.。
That is irresponsible.。
That's that oppression of the poor,。
that discriminatory racial language, that fascism,。
that murder of the innocent.。
I cannot delegate my authority to you.。
I will find another.。
But I will not just do nothing.。
Anybody can rage against the man, folks.。
That's what kids do.。
They throw tantrums against the man.。
Adults step up and go, "I'll be the man.。
"I'll do right.。
"I'll take this thing on and I'll change this bad boy around。
"and I'll be a part of the solution."。
And so what I'm gonna do tonight with you guys。
is just encourage you to get busy and be the solution.。
What I wanna tell you to do is to make sure。
that you're not somebody that thinks。
that the solution is government,。
but you're also not somebody that thinks。
there is no opportunity to do something。
in the way that we are governed.。
That we wanna be people who step up and say,。
"Hey, I'm gonna try and make a difference。
"in this world, in this life."。
Let me just encourage you,。
this is the purpose of government.。
It's in 1 Peter chapter two, verses 13 and following.。
It says, "Submit yourself for the Lord's sake。
"to every human institution,。
"whether to a king as to one in authority。
"or to governors as sent by him。
"for the punishment of evildoers。
"and the praise of those who do right."。
That's the purpose of government,。
to punish evildoers and to praise those who do right.。
And so you wanna make sure that you put in office。
people who know what evil is。
and call evil, evil and good, good.。
And woe to a land when they call evil, good and good, evil.。
"For such is the will of God,。
"that by doing right,。
"you might silence the ignorance of foolish men.。
"So act as free men," the scripture says.。
"Do not use your freedom as a covering for evil,。
"but use it as bond slaves of God.。
"Honor all people, love the brotherhood,。
"fear God, honor the king."。
We wanna be individuals that understand。
that the way we choose a king is we ask our king,。
again, ask our ruler, who rules my ruler?。
And I wanna just share with you。
this little section of scripture。
also in Deuteronomy in chapter 17.。
This is what God said to Israel。
about something that needs to be true of the king.。
The king's gotta know that God is good, his word is true,。
that disobeying him is gonna cost people eventually.。
One of the problems we have is that right now,。
people go, "Well, it's still working.。
"We're still being disobedient, we're still being lazy.。
"It's not hurt us yet, so I guess we can keep doing it."。
And we're just ignoring the law of the harvest.。
That's you reap what you sow.。
You reap it later than you sow it,。
and you reap more than you sow.。
What do I mean by that?。
If you sow an apple seed,。
you're not just going to get an apple,。
and you don't just get an apple the next day.。
It takes time for that apple seed to germinate, die,。
and go in the ground,。
but when an apple seed germinates and grows,。
what do you get, an apple?。
What do you get?。
You get an apple tree.。
You reap what you sow, you reap it later than you sow it,。
and you reap more than you sow.。
Adults know that.。
And they don't keep reaping destruction。
and think it's gonna turn to prosperity.。
You don't just entertain your flesh。
and do whatever the heart wants。
and expect there not to be a devastation in your life。
and the life of those that are around you.。
You know that, you've experienced that.。
And so this is what God said to the nation of Israel.。
When you go to enter into the land,。
which the Lord, dear God, gives you in verse 14,。
and you possess it and you live it,。
and you say, "I will set a king over me。
"like all the nations who are around me,"。
he would say, "That's a problem,"。
but he says, "You're probably gonna do that one day."。
And he says, "When you do that,。
"I want you to make sure that he does this."。
Jump down to verse 18.。
He says, "It shall come about。
"when this king sits on the throne of his kingdom,。
"he shall write for himself a copy of this law。
"on a scroll in the presence of the Levitical priest."。
So watch this.。
This is the only person in the entire nation,。
okay, gang, that was supposed to have。
his own copy of the law.。
And when he becomes a ruler,。
he was supposed to sit down and to hand write out。
the constitution for how people should be governed.。
And he wasn't just to do it on his own.。
People were to look over his shoulder,。
hey, hey, Chumlee, you just missed。
an entire paragraph there.。
Well, I'm not really wild about it.。
It's not yours to decide what part。
of good governance you adopt.。
This is the constitution that will lead to blessing.。
We believe in rex, not rex lex, but lex rex.。
What's that mean?。
It's an old Latin phrase for the king is not the law.。
That's rex lex.。
We are lex rex.。
The law is king.。
There are certain things that we can't tamper with.。
And if you tamper with them,。
it's not gonna go well with us.。
So let's make sure you get it right.。
And by the way, this is where the idea came。
that our president says,。
"I'm gonna live by this constitution,"。
which understood sin, nature of man,。
which is why it divided powers,。
because they knew that power corrupts。
and absolute power corrupts absolutely.。
They knew that this nation had come about。
because of divine providence.。
They knew that all men were given by their creator。
certain inalienable rights.。
And they knew that if they did not govern themselves,。
it wasn't gonna be long before the government。
of the people, by the people who didn't govern themselves,。
would have a government for the people,。
which was leading to destruction.。
David and I were talking about this beforehand。
and I've mentioned before,。
and he reminded me of the fact。
that the communist government of China。
looked at America and the fact that America kept winning.。
Have you heard one of our candidates say,。
"China's killing us because our leaders are idiots.。
"They're killing us, they're killing us."。
Well, here's the truth.。
For a long time, China looked at America,。
"They're killing us."。
And China sent sociologists over here to study America.。
And when they came over here,。
they thought that the reason that we were successful。
is because of maybe our history, our political systems,。
our economic systems, our cultural perspective.。
They thought maybe it was 'cause we had powerful guns。
or some system of politics or economics.。
But it says they studied over 20 years。
and they went back home and they reported。
to the communist leadership of China。
that the reason that the culture of America。
is more prosperous than the culture of China。
is because of the moral fabric of the nation。
being built on this thing called a Judeo-Christian ethic.。
That is the communist observation.。
They go, "Interestingly enough,。
"this church that we've tried to oppress in China,。
"when it's come in here and it's gone into certain villages。
"and the Christian moral foundation in China。
"has swept through a village。
"where the culture of faith emerges inside Chinese villages,。
"we can see that there is a reduction in opium addiction,。
"there's a reduction in crime,。
"and Christian communities and families。
"grow wealthier in China than their neighbors."。
It's almost like Deuteronomy 4 is true.。
And what the Chinese government said is,。
"Look, gang, it's what Alex de Tocqueville found。
"when he came over here from France.。
"He said the secret of America is her greatness,。
"and when she ceases to be good, she will cease to be great."。
And folks, what you've got going on right now。
is we have a nation of children who want what they want,。
and we no longer work for the common good,。
and we no longer pursue what divine providence。
has embedded into law, and we're acting like children.。
And I feel this way, so it must be okay.。
You have to let me do these things.。
I don't care if it redefines the historic family,。
which has always been the root foundation of strength。
for any civilization.。
I don't care that life and future generations。
are the source of our strength and posterity.。
If we don't want it, we'll kill it.。
And when they come, we'll ignore them。
and keep choosing our own little fantasies,。
and we'll never grow up.。
Some of you guys have grown up in those homes,。
and it's time for some adults to show up,。
and this generation can do it.。
And we need you.。
And some of you guys need to be reparented。
and reeducated by the Father in heaven who loves you。
and cares for you.。
Now look, here's what I'm gonna tell you.。
I don't believe that hope rides on Air Force One.。
I believe the hope of our nation rides。
in the hearts of individuals,。
and it rides in a righteous generation.。
The way to affect an election,。
ultimately the way to affect a country,。
I would tell you is simply this,。
is to share with others how they can become。
and walk among the elect.。
The elect are those, literally,。
that means to be called out of darkness。
into His marvelous light.。
The way to change your country is to change its citizenry,。
and the way to change citizenry is to proclaim Christ.。
And so why you should vote, every chance you get,。
you vote with your life, and you vote with your prayers,。
and you vote with your mouth,。
and you declare the goodness of God.。
Let me just encourage you, gang.。
You should desire righteous laws,。
because righteous laws lead to prosperous lands,。
and because you care about people,。
you want there to be a governance that is good.。
And you go, well, Ty, I don't know if I wanna,。
you know, legislate morality.。
I don't know if we should legislate morality.。
That's what law is, it's a moral code.。
There is no such thing as a law。
that is not the legislation of somebody's morality.。
The question is not should we legislate morality,。
the question is whose morality are we going to legislate?。
Man's, it seems right, but ends in death,。
or God's, 'cause he wants it to go well with you,。
your children, and your posterity.。
Just so you know, this thing called the Establishment Clause。
which was written into our Constitution,。
which says that government should make no law。
respecting the establishment of the religion。
or prohibiting the free exercise thereof,。
was written not to keep the church out of government,。
but to keep the government out of the church.。
That idea of separation of church and state,。
it's not in your Constitution.。
It was written by President Jefferson at the time。
to a group of Baptists in Connecticut。
who were concerned that the Congregationalist church。
which dominated in Connecticut。
and was trying to influence government。
by having their particular expression of following Christ。
to be the rule and the law of the land,。
the Dansbury Baptists said to the President,。
"We're concerned that we may not get。
"to participate in government。
"because we're not Congregationalists."。
And he said, "We will make sure。
"that there is a wall of separation。
"between church and state."。
And what that means is we're not gonna let the state。
tell you how to worship God.。
But it was never ever intended to say。
that we don't want the church。
to inform how we govern ourself.。
That's where righteousness comes from.。
So I'm not here, gang, listen, this is my job。
and this is your job。
and this is what I'm gonna ask of you tonight.。
We're not here to impose our will on anybody,。
but we are here to make a divine proposal.。
And that is, gang, there's a better way.。
And we tell our friends, look, I know you think。
that right now you're in your 20s。
and you can just kinda party on。
and you'll get serious about life later,。
but that's not gonna go well with you.。
I know you feel this way.。
I know the world's telling you。
it's okay to chase your feelings,。
but I'm telling you, feelings are real,。
they're not reliable.。
And what you wanna do is be somebody。
just like Jesus makes a proposal,。
there's a better way, come with me.。
Somebody who used to live in darkness,。
but now has been called out and I'm living in light,。
come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden,。
I will give you rest.。
They may not listen.。
It's not our job to change them,。
but it is our job to make sure。
that we don't participate in their anarchy。
and rebellion against a government。
that they don't get to vote for.。
Loving people won't do it.。
They will speak up, stand firm, stay humble,。
and serve the king.。
So I wanna just encourage you with this, man.。
This is not new information that we're gonna live in a land。
that goes through what we're going through.。
You know, we were told that in the last days,。
difficult times will come,。
and men will become lovers of self.。
And so here's what I would offer to you,。
just a couple of quick points.。
Number one, don't panic.。
Don't panic, man.。
But let's start with just praying.。
First Timothy chapter two says this.。
First of all, then, I urge that entreaties and prayers。
and petitions and thanksgivings be made for all men.。
First Timothy two.。
And especially those who are in authority,。
so that we may lay a quiet and tranquil life。
in all godliness and dignity.。
Because this is good.。
You see this?。
This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior.。
He wants kids to live lives of peace,。
not rebellion and anarchy,。
not raging against the man,。
but following men that seek justice,。
do good, serve God,。
and honor the righteous king.。
So we wanna pray.。
We wanna be people who, as it says in Jeremiah 29,。
seek the welfare of the city in which we live in.。
And so part of seeking the welfare。
is that we speak with informed tongues,。
and we propose a better way.。
And we say, guys, I know that kinda,。
you know, the prevailing wisdom of the day。
is, you know, kinda try before you buy and live together,。
but let me just tell you, from a sociological perspective,。
that's not working out well for people.。
I know that our generation has been told。
and sold a bill of lies that if we feel a certain way,。
we should chase it, but let me just tell you,。
that doesn't go well with anybody.。
That's the way that children live.。
Not people who stand firm and act like men,。
and let everything they do be done in love,。
not in lust and licentiousness.。
Colossians chapter four says this,。
devote yourself to prayer,。
keeping alert in it with an attitude of thanksgiving,。
praying at the same time。
for those that are also participating。
in trying to prevail polity and righteousness,。
that God will open to us a door。
for the words that we may speak forth the mystery of Christ,。
for which Paul at this time had been in prison.。
He said, pray that we'd speak clearly and winsomely.。
Pray that God would let it be obvious to me。
in the way I ought to speak,。
and then meanwhile, all of us,。
let's conduct ourself with wisdom toward outsiders,。
making the most of every opportunity.。
Let our speech always be with grace,。
seasoned with salt, as it were,。
so that we'll know how to speak to every person.。
So gang, we need to pray.。
And need to be people that aren't panicking,。
aren't surprised, but we pray.。
Secondly, we want to purify ourself.。
We want to lead from moral authority.。
This is what the scripture says。
in first Peter chapter three, verse 15, it says,。
but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts.。
In other words, if you're gonna call people to light,。
you don't want to be people who keep living in darkness.。
It doesn't mean you're gonna be perfect.。
Hypocrites, people who sin are not hypocrites.。
You need to know that.。
People who say something is wrong。
and then do it as if it's right, that's a hypocrite.。
Somebody who makes a mistake and goes, that's a mistake,。
that's not a hypocrite.。
That's human.。
And as you mature, you become less and less。
prone to those mistakes.。
You discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness.。
You sanctify yourself as a follower of God who is good.。
And you follow the Lord in your heart,。
always being ready to make a defense.。
When anyone asks you to give an account for the hope。
that is in you, and you do it with gentleness and reverence,。
and you keep, it says in verse 16, a good conscience.。
So the thing in which you're slandered。
as people who are oppressive and who think。
that they're more self-righteous than other people,。
the thing in which you are slandered,。
those who revile your good behavior in Christ。
will eventually be put to shame.。
In other words, just what Jesus did when he was accused.。
He just said, hey man, look.。
Wisdom will vindicate itself by our deeds.。
If you like what you got, keep doing what you're doing.。
Vote for that candidate.。
But I'm just gonna tell you, if you keep doing。
what you're doing, you're not gonna like what you got.。
And so, I'm gonna suffer if I'm in a land。
where the majority of people want to pursue。
a lack of wisdom and unrighteousness.。
And I'm gonna love you and not be angry。
and be forgiving towards you, but I'm gonna just。
keep telling you there's a better way.。
And I'm gonna live in this land that is letting。
perversity and evil be the rule and the law of the land.。
I'm not gonna participate in that.。
And you may mock me because I judge you,。
but eventually you're gonna come back to me.。
And you're gonna go, you know what?。
There's something about your home。
that's different than my home.。
There's something about your leadership。
that's different than my leadership.。
There's something about your love。
that's different than my lack of love.。
Would you teach me more of your will and way?。
So we pray.。
And we purify ourself.。
And then gang, I'll just end with this.。
We proclaim.。
We are heralds of righteousness.。
We are declarationers.。
First Peter chapter two, verse nine says this.。
But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood,。
a holy nation, a people for God's own possession。
so that you might proclaim the excellencies。
of him who has called you out of darkness。
into his marvelous light.。
Gang, I wanna tell you something.。
The reason that our country is in the condition。
that it's in today is because of the church.。
This is not a radical homosexual problem.。
This is not a pro-choice problem.。
This is not a democratic problem.。
This is not a republican problem.。
This is a spiritual problem.。
And the reason there's a spiritual problem in America。
is because the church has been weak,。
ineffective, and compromising.。
Because we don't teach the word of God.。
We don't sanctify Christ as Lord in our own life.。
We've either made politics our savior。
or we've made it our sworn enemy.。
And both of those are unbiblical.。
Instead, we're servants of the king。
who seek the welfare of the city that we're in.。
And we don't vote for compromised evil people.。
And when we have evil as the law of the land,。
we don't participate in it.。
We live rightly.。
And we love.。
And we propose a better way.。
With our speech seasoned with salt, as it were.。
And we just say, man, listen,。
I think what you're doing is wrong.。
I think it's gonna hurt you.。
But I'm gonna love you.。
And I'm gonna live my life this way.。
You live your life that way.。
If that's what you wanna do, I'm not gonna endorse it.。
I'm not gonna condone it.。
I'm not gonna call it right.。
I'm not gonna participate in the craziness。
of the spirit of the age.。
I'm gonna represent the one who created the age.。
The ancient of days.。
And I'm gonna tell you he's good.。
And he loves you.。
And there's a way out.。
Pray.。
Purify.。
Proclaim.。
Participate.。
Step up.。
Speak out.。
Stand firm.。
Stay humble.。
Serve the king.。
Father, I pray that this is the generation right here。
where we turn this mess around.。
That we stop being children who think。
that we don't have to do anything。
and someone else will take care of us.。
That we stop being small-minded and think。
that there is no law that we're in any way。
accountable to or responsible for.。
We know better.。
We know we reap what we sow.。
And we just keep kicking the can down the road.。
And our parents did it and they seemed。
to quote unquote get away from it。
even though we were miserable growing up underneath it.。
We know there's a real debt that's there.。
We know it's just a matter of time。
before the world gets its piece of us。
and says your devalued currency,。
which is the rule and the law。
and the monetary system of the world,。
is just a joke.。
And if we could, we'd come get you.。
And so Lord, I pray we'd start to live。
austere, wise, humble lives.。
Not be bullies.。
Not be arrogant.。
I pray we wouldn't be hopeless either.。
But we would do exactly what the scripture says.。
We would honor the king.。
We'd pray.。
We'd sanctify Christ as Lord in our hearts.。
And we would live our lives in a holy way。
before the people.。
Proposing to them a better way。
that you have shown us because you're good,。
your word is true.。
And following you is a blessing in Jesus' name.。
Amen.。
