(soft music)。
All right, well, Porch, how are we doing tonight?。
We're doing okay?。
It's great to see you.。
Thanks for being here this Tuesday night.。
It is, it's a joy, man.。
Like every single week,。
we genuinely believe there's never a Tuesday like another.。
And that means that tonight we sit at the center。
of a really special opportunity。
because I think God wants to do something。
very unique in your life.。
I mean that.。
Like I'm not just selling something up here.。
I really genuinely believe。
that the God of heaven and earth,。
he is here amongst us right now.。
He is moving by way of his spirit。
and he is wanting to offer you something,。
whether it's for your mind or it's for your heart。
or it's for your soul,。
that will lead you to walk away from this room。
different than how you entered in.。
You believe that?。
Can you think of that for yourself?。
Give me an amen if so.。
All right, you can talk back to me.。
That's okay.。
I know sometimes we worry if that's allowed,。
but you can do so.。
Hey, we're so grateful you're here.。
We've got so many young adults all over the nation。
that are tuning in with us tonight as well.。
We've got Porch Live locations。
all over the great United States of America.。
We've got Porch Live locations specifically。
in Springfield, Boise and greater Lafayette。
that we wanna give a very special shout out to.。
We love you guys so much.。
Hey, let me kick things off with a story。
just to get us going here.。
Well, when I made the leap from corporate America。
into full-time ministry, I need to confess,。
I genuinely found myself second-guessing that decision。
in my earliest days.。
And now the reason for that isn't because I worried。
whether or not the position。
was gonna be the right fit for me.。
No, I really liked the job that I was getting to do.。
It wasn't because I was concerned。
if the organization was everything that I had hoped for,。
because it was an amazing organization.。
And it wasn't that I was second-guessing.。
God, did you call me into this?。
I genuinely believed with a wholehearted conviction.。
God had called me into a life of ministry.。
So why then did I second-guess all of it?。
Because I really loved all of the comforts。
that came with corporate America in the Western world.。
Like I genuinely loved my old paycheck。
because as a single guy, I never had to count my dollars。
or worry about budgeting anything.。
I could spend my money where I wanted to,。
when I wanted to and how I wanted to.。
I loved all of the confidence that came with my old job。
because I could walk into a variety of rooms。
and talk to a smattering of people.。
I could visit with friends.。
I could talk to family.。
I could go out on the weekends.。
I could find myself visiting with whole strangers。
and feel like I had something impressive to offer them。
because my career was respectable.。
And I loved the opportunities。
that came with that old job too.。
I loved that it indulged my competitive edge.。
It gave me a ladder to climb up。
and prove that I was worthy of following after.。
I could leave a legacy.。
I could make my mark on the world.。
I could even make a name for myself.。
I loved all of this about my old job.。
So when I made the switch,。
having left the halls of power。
to do things like fold t-shirts by the thousands。
and lick envelopes by the millions。
to send out newsletters to all of the people。
that follow along with the ministry,。
I often second-guessed, "God, did I make the right decision?"。
I remember very specifically.。
There was one summer day。
in the middle of the heat of August,。
the first week of school at Texas A&M,。
I was sitting out front of Kyle Field。
and I had borrowed this grill。
because we were gonna pass out hot dogs.。
And yet as I fired that grill up,。
only one of the six burners worked.。
And yet I had a cooler of 2,000 hot dogs to cook.。
And as I stood there baking in the heat。
of a Texas summer, I asked,。
"Oh God, why do you test me so?"。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because we all can relate to that experience, can't we?。
Maybe not the cooking hot dogs。
in the middle of the heat of Texas,。
but in feeling like God is testing you.。
I don't know what your situation is。
and I don't know how serious your situation may be,。
yet we have all been in a situation。
where we have found ourselves asking the very same thing.。
"God, why are you testing me?"。
Like you hit it off with someone。
and yet the relationship, it ended unexpectedly.。
It fell far short of where you thought it would go。
or you are expected to take over the family business.。
And yet at some point during your journey through life,。
you realize God's giving you a different passion。
for something else.。
And now you fear that you're gonna let everybody。
in your family down or you love hanging out。
with those friends.。
And yet every time you go out with them,。
you always feel pressured into compromising.。
And then you wake up on Saturday or Sunday morning。
and you're just filled with regret。
because of the guilt by way of the things。
that you did the night before,。
or you have applied for 50 different jobs.。
And yet, despite all of your effort,。
you cannot get a response back.。
We have all been in a place where we're wondering why?。
Why God?。
Like, why are you testing me?。
Why are you making it so very difficult?。
That's what I wanna talk to you about tonight.。
Because as we continue in our series。
of the book of Genesis, we're gonna visit with,。
we're gonna specifically dial in to the life of Abraham。
in a key moment where he asks the very same thing.。
He is confronted with this great test from God.。
One that has marked the history of humanity。
across the globe in so many different places,。
and yet has relevance even for us here tonight.。
I want to talk to you about the sacrifice of Isaac.。
So if you have a Bible, you can grab it。
and you can turn with me to Genesis chapter 22.。
While you're turning there, we have been in this series。
where we've been walking through the book of Genesis.。
And while we can't look at every single chapter,。
we have thought to ourselves, you know what?。
In an effort to understand, God, who are you?。
Let's look at 10 iconic moments。
over the course of this book.。
And last week, we turned the corner。
into really focusing on the family of Abraham.。
You see, you get all of the primeval history,。
everything that happens across the globe,。
and then it slowly dials down into this one man。
and the rest of his family, because it's from that man。
and his family that Jesus Christ himself is gonna come。
and God is going to bless the rest of the world.。
And so as we jumped into Abraham last week,。
we found that he was walking with God。
in a manner that you and I very similarly do.。
We find ourselves journeying with him。
through a variety of different highs and lows,。
ebbs and flows, and yet what we know is that。
as we go with him, often it's not perfect,。
but it can be faithful.。
That's the story of Abraham.。
We see in him this guy that has just said yes to going。
with God, and as he's gone with him,。
he's found that, man, there have been high peaks。
and there have been low valleys,。
and yet through it all, God has continued to be faithful.。
And yet as we come to chapter 22,。
what we need to know is that Abraham。
is now over 100 years old.。
And in this spot at his life, he's really grown in his faith.。
A lot has taken place since chapter 12.。
In chapter 12, he kind of took a flyer on God.。
God looked at him and said,。
"Hey, I've got big plans for you."。
And Abraham said, "Cool, okay."。
And so he left his home, he left his family,。
he left his inheritance, and he began to journey with God。
into the promises that God had given him.。
And as we come to 22, we realize a lot of those things。
have come to pass.。
Like he has received the son of promise.。
He has entered into the land which God wanted to give him,。
and yet through it all, as Abraham has grown。
in his knowledge of who God is, in his love for that God,。
what we realize is all of it has come by way of testing.。
All of it has come by way of testing.。
Him knowing God's heart, obeying God's voice,。
trusting God's character.。
Like the very things that I hope would be true of you,。
it all, literally all of it, came by way of testing.。
Notice I said testing.。
I didn't say tempting,。
because though those things can feel very similar,。
they are very, very different from one another.。
The Bible makes it really plain.。
James 1:13 says, "Let no one say when he is tempted,。
"I'm being tempted by God.。
"For God cannot be tempted with evil,。
"and he himself tempts no one."。
Why do I tell you that?。
Because it means things like the thirst traps。
in your algorithm, or the pressure you feel。
to kind of perform and look successful before your peers,。
that's not from God.。
He didn't do that to you, that's on us.。
God does not tempt anyone, but he tests everyone.。
Because if you just look up north of verse 13 in James 1,。
what you find in verses two through four is it says,。
"Count it all joy, my brothers,。
"when you meet trials of various kinds.。
"For you know that the testing of your faith,。
"it produces steadfastness.。
"And let steadfastness have its full effect,。
"that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing."。
You see, testing does in fact come from God,。
and it comes from God for very good reason.。
It comes to refine your character, and grow your faith,。
and shape your maturity, and ultimately lead you。
to look more like the person of Jesus.。
That's what tests do.。
Tests, they show you where you are,。
and then they show you where you want to be.。
I remember experiencing this at the age of 15,。
whenever I went to pass my driver's exam,。
because I did not pass my driver's exam.。
I failed that test miserably,。
and the reason for it is I didn't prepare.。
I thought that I could figure out the rules of the road。
all on my own, and so as I showed it to the DMV,。
I failed to become what I wanted,。
and yet that test was so useful,。
because it showed me, and that cruel woman。
that ultimately handed me the results,。
that I was not roadworthy.。
And so what happened?。
I knew I needed to grow.。
And so I set out to learn traffic law.。
I wanted to know when to merge, when to yield.。
How long should I sit at the stop sign?。
When can I and can't I turn right on red?。
I wanted to know all of it,。
because I had dreams of driving,。
and though they had been dashed upon the rocks in my past,。
I believe there was a brighter day still ahead.。
That's what tests do.。
They show you where you are,。
and they show you where you want to be.。
I love the way St. Augustine describes it.。
He says, "Trials will prove and improve us."。
The thought there being that when you undergo trials。
and tests in life, God is trying to tell you,。
hey, this is who you are.。
And he's trying to show you who you're meant to become.。
And listen, that's what he's doing with some of you tonight.。
Which is why if you're here and you feel like,。
man, I missed my calling.。
I chose the wrong career.。
I picked the wrong guy.。
I picked the wrong girl.。
I can't get the things that I'm praying for.。
I've waited too long, oh Lord.。
If that's you, you're probably facing a test.。
And it means that God's trying to teach you something.。
About himself, yes, but also about you too.。
So how do we know if we are being tested?。
And more importantly, why are we being tested?。
We'll look at verse one.。
It says this, "After these things, God tested Abraham.。
And he said to him, 'Abraham.'。
And he said, 'Here I am, which I just love.'"。
Doesn't that tell us something about the nature。
of Abraham and God's relationship?。
Like by this point, Abraham has been walking with God。
for a very long time.。
And as they have journeyed through everything,。
again, we said the highs and lows of life.。
What we see is that they have a closeness。
in relationship to each other。
that helps Abraham to actually know when God is speaking.。
He knows God's voice.。
Like what good relationship can you have in life。
where you do not know the other person's voice?。
There is no relationship like that。
because you must talk to each other.。
Abraham has been talking to God.。
God has been talking to Abraham.。
And what we see is that when God calls, Abraham responds.。
He knows the voice of God,。
which raises a really big question。
that we do not have time to actually discuss.。
And yet I'll put it before you。
because it's worth considering.。
Do you know when God speaks?。
And how do you respond when he does?。
Abraham, he responds instinctively.。
Like he just gets up and he goes.。
God says, "Abraham," he's like, "Hey, yeah, what's up?。
"Right here."。
Like he's so ready for it.。
And yet for so many of us, that's not the case.。
For some of you here tonight, it's hard for you to discern.。
Is that God's voice or is that my own thinking?。
For others of you, it's difficult to make it out。
through all the noise and distractions。
of what's going on in your life.。
Others of you, you don't know what he sounds like。
because you've never actually listened to him.。
So what do you do to pick up the trail,。
the accent of God's voice?。
You read this, you spend time studying the scriptures,。
meditating on their truths,。
and not only memorizing what it says,。
but realizing every word, it speaks to you.。
This is timeless and it is tailored directly to you.。
This is his word.。
It is living and active.。
It is sharper than any double-edged sword.。
And it is still piercing even today.。
If you want to know his voice, you got to get into this book。
because the question is never,。
is God asking something of me?。
Because he's asked something of Abraham.。
How do I know if he's asking something to me?。
That's never the question.。
God is always asking something of you.。
The question is, what?。
What is he asking of you?。
Because God has a lot that he wants to say。
about the way you live your life.。
What you do and how you do it,。
because he ultimately wants to shape you into a person。
that experiences all the fullness。
that he's come to give through Jesus.。
And you cannot get there if you cannot hear him.。
So what does it look like then。
for you to understand his word?。
We don't have time to really unpack that,。
but we've got a team out back.。
Once you leave the service,。
you can go and you can visit with them.。
They're at the welcome desk。
and they would love to talk to you。
about how you can actually learn the word of God。
and you can engage with it at a personal level.。
So as we keep going, we see Abraham hears God's voice。
and he responds, it's instinctive.。
And so it says this in verse two.。
He said, God, take your son, your only son, Isaac,。
whom you love and go to the land of Moriah。
and offer him there as a burnt offering。
on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you.。
Now, why would God do that?。
What a crazy request.。
Like, why would God come to Abraham and be like,。
hey, yeah, your boy, the most precious thing in your life,。
that thing, the one that you treasure above all,。
I want you to give him to me.。
Why would he do that?。
Doesn't that feel so inconsiderate?。
Doesn't that feel absolutely unloving?。
Here's why he does it.。
He does it because tests expose what we love most in life.。
Why is God testing you?。
He wants to expose what you love most in life.。
That is why he gives this deliberate instruction。
to Abraham, it's so interesting.。
It feels like as you read it, it's redundant,。
but it's anything but redundant.。
He comes to Abraham and he says,。
take your son, your only son,。
the one who you love, and give him to me.。
Why is he so emphatic about this?。
Because he wants Abraham to know。
that thing which you cherish most in life,。
I know full well about it, and I want all of it.。
I want to be first in your life.。
And so that which would ever compete against me,。
I want you to stack us against one another and devaluate.。
Am I better or is it instead?。
That's why God looks at me and says,。
hey, I want you to give him to me as a burnt offering.。
If you study the Levitical law,。
what you realize is there's a whole variety。
of different offerings that the people of God。
could present to the Lord.。
And yet this type of offering, a burnt offering,。
or as the Hebrew would describe it, a going up offering,。
it was a total offering.。
The thought there being, nothing is held back.。
Nothing is kept for the priests or the people.。
All of it is given to God.。
And so he's looking at Abraham and he's saying,。
hey, that thing, Isaac, who you love most,。
I don't only want him, I want all of him.。
I want the entirety of that which you cherish。
above everything else.。
And the reason he does it in the life of Abraham。
and he speaks it into the life of you and I here tonight。
is he knows there's nothing worse for somebody。
than to love something more than him.。
So I don't know what it is for you.。
I don't know what's most precious in your life,。
if it's your body, if it's your money,。
if it's your appearance, if it's your job,。
if it's your intellect, if it's your health,。
if it's your happiness,。
but God will not settle for second place。
in comparison to anything.。
And it isn't because he's insecure.。
Oh no, they like social acceptance more than they like me.。
What will I ever do?。
How will I move on?。
God does not feel that way about you.。
He is not insecure because he has always been secure。
before you and I ever showed up on the scene,。
he was totally secure then,。
and he will be totally secure whenever we are gone.。
He is not insecure in the slightest.。
Instead, he knows there's nothing better out there for you.。
So come to me, that's his heart.。
It is one of love.。
And yet what we realize is we don't often do this.。
Psalm 115, four through eight,。
it tells us such a haunting passage。
because it tells us what happens to people。
that love things other than God.。
It says their idols are silver and gold.。
The work of human hands.。
They have mouths, but they do not speak.。
Eyes, but they do not see.。
They have ears, but they do not hear.。
Noses, but they do not smell.。
They have hands, but they do not feel.。
They have feet, but do not walk.。
And they do not make a sound in their throat.。
And here's the kicker.。
Those who make them become like them.。
So do all who trust in them.。
You see it?。
When you worship something lifeless,。
you become something lifeless.。
That's what that's saying.。
So much so that when you value your body, for instance,。
when you value your body so much so。
that you're hyper-focused at the gym。
that you can't even take pride。
in the things that you've been able to achieve。
because you're also hyper-aware of how much further you go,。
what ends up happening is it robs you of the achievement。
because you always feel。
like you have someplace further still to reach.。
It's why so many of you,。
you care so much to control your life.。
And so what happens is you fill up your calendar。
'cause that gives you some sense of security.。
And the reality is your calendar ends up running your life。
as opposed to you running your calendar.。
It's why others of you,。
you find comfort in unwinding with a few drinks。
at the end of the day.。
And yet what happens as you do that。
and you give yourself over to it more and more and more。
is you become as empty as the bottles。
you're draining themselves.。
You ultimately become that which you worship.。
We know what this is like.。
And here's the really dangerous thing about this。
is so many of the things in your life。
and everything I just described, they're morally neutral.。
They're not intrinsically evil.。
They're not wrong in any way by theirselves,。
but they become evil whenever we mistreat。
what God created as good,。
because anything good can become bad。
if it's worshiped as best.。
So what will God do?。
He will come and he will put his finger。
on whatever that is in your life。
and he will ask you to give it to him.。
And the reality is if you do not give it to him,。
he will ultimately remove it or he will destroy it.。
And that will be his mercy to you.。
I remember my own life.。
Let's try to think of a different story。
'cause I think I've shared this one before,。
but it is the best story from my life to give you。
because several years ago, several years ago,。
it was a long time ago now that I'm thinking about it.。
I stood on a stage like this for the very first time.。
And as I did it, I had all the feels。
like I was anxious and nervous and excited and giddy。
because I had been in your seat before。
and I had been deeply impacted by the words men like myself。
standing on stages like this had spoken into me.。
Like I had been fascinated by the word of God。
and I had been marked, etched out。
by all the things that he said were true.。
And so having been impacted by it,。
I was so eager and I was so eager to be a part of that work。
in the lives of other people.。
And I've been a first communication guest.。
And so whenever my moment came to finally climb the platform。
and get in front of a crowd like this, I was ecstatic.。
I was so expectant.。
It isn't until I froze in front of 3000 people。
for the very first time I ever stood on a stage like this.。
And it wasn't for just like a couple of seconds.。
It was for like a lot of seconds,。
like an uncomfortable amount of time。
to the point that ultimately I felt deeply humiliated.。
It's one of the most embarrassing moments in my life.。
It was miserable and yet it was merciful.。
It's actually where I learned the tagline,。
miserable mercies.。
Because though that felt so wrong in me,。
it was so right for me.。
God knew as I climbed that stage。
and I stood before that crowd, I didn't love him.。
I didn't love his ministry.。
I love that stage and the chance that I got to stand upon.。
And so what did God do?。
For years, he kept me long and far away。
from any stage like it.。
Because he needed to work something out of me。
before he would ever work something through me.。
So that way now as I stand here,。
I know I don't need anything from you.。
I just want everything for you.。
I can be a fool to the glory of God。
because he is crazy about you.。
And I know for he has been crazy about me as well.。
This is what he will do.。
Now, does that mean that he'll never let you。
have what you love?。
Does it mean that you're never gonna get。
to achieve your dreams,。
live in the fulfillment of all your hopes?。
No, I'm standing here.。
But what it does mean is God is not content。
to be second best in your life。
because he doesn't want second best for your life.。
You see what I'm saying there?。
He knows he's the best thing for you.。
And so anything that would ever get in the way of it,。
he will challenge it, he will obstruct it,。
he will oppose it。
because he ultimately wants your satisfaction.。
And that satisfaction is not found in this world,。
it is found in him.。
He wants you to have as much of him as you can get.。
And here's the thing, he loves you so much。
that if there was anything better out there for you,。
he would be the first to point you to it.。
But because there isn't,。
he is the first to point you to himself.。
He says, come to me because in me,。
you will have life and life abundantly.。
So how do you know if he's first in your life?。
Well, it depends on your response when he calls,。
which is what we see as we keep going.。
Look at verse three.。
So Abraham rose in the morning, he saddled his donkey,。
and he took two of his young men with him and his son Isaac.。
And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and he arose。
and he went to the place which God had told him.。
And on the third day, Abraham lifted up his eyes。
and he saw the place from afar.。
Okay, so in just these two verses,。
we learned something really big。
about the level of Abraham's trust in God.。
Because again, it reads kind of normal,。
but there's nothing normal about this.。
Like this is an insane request from God,。
and yet it is an even more insane response from Abraham.。
'Cause what does he do?。
He gets up early and he gets to work。
and he starts cutting the wood and he makes his way out.。
Like he is like in no way, shape or form contesting,。
protesting this call from God.。
He just snaps into action and begins to act obediently.。
How, how can he do that?。
Because he has a massive faith in God.。
Abraham has massive, massive faith in God.。
That's why God tests him and that's why he tests you.。
God tests us to reveal the quality of our faith.。
God tests us to reveal the quality of our faith.。
And the bigger the test you face,。
the bigger the faith required, right?。
So we actually know this idea。
because we see it all the time in reality television.。
Like it's not enough to just have people。
go and compete for a prize.。
No, instead we need to ship them off。
and strain them on a deserted Island.。
It's not enough to just look at people。
and see who's the best cook.。
Instead, we need to package。
the very worst ingredients possible。
and see what they can make out of them.。
It's not enough to just put people on a show。
and see if they can find love with one another.。
No, what we need to do is we need to see。
if they can do it blind.。
This is always perpetuating this idea。
that if we raise the stakes,。
we'll see if their belief also rises.。
The difference though between them and Abraham。
is they are filled of a self-belief。
and he has a God belief.。
Abraham's faith is not in his strength.。
It is in God instead.。
And what happens because of it,。
he does something completely insensible.。
Like, what are you doing if you're in this position?。
I'm probably protesting the logic on this one.。
I'm probably looking at God and being like,。
did you get enough sleep big guy?。
You know, like this seems a little bit shaky.。
I'm not real sure you said this one thing.。
This feels contradictory to that.。
So why don't we just sleep on it。
and we can revisit tomorrow.。
That's what I would do.。
What would you do?。
I would expect you'd probably come up。
with some kind of justification。
because the reality is we do this all the time.。
We come up with weak justifications。
to justify our disobedience.。
Like, I know that my friends think he's bad news。
but they just don't know him like I do.。
Or I know I should delete those apps。
but how then would I know what's happening in the world。
or what my friends are up to?。
Or I know I should stop hanging out with those people。
but when would I ever get to go out。
and hang with people I actually enjoy?。
But here's the reality.。
Abraham does not indulge a weak justification。
because he doesn't feel confident in what God has asked.。
Instead, he looks at God and he considers what he's asked。
and he says yes. How?。
How can he do it?。
Because this is genuinely insensible.。
How does he find himself in a position。
where he can say yes to God?。
Well, I love, it tells us that he rode。
from Beersheba to Mount Moriah and it took him three days.。
And the reason I love that is because if you look on a map。
and you actually consider how far someone。
would have been able to travel by way of donkey。
in the ancient Near East, more than likely,。
the trip from Beersheba to Mount Moriah。
should have taken something like one to two days。
depending how fast you're pushing it.。
But he takes three.。
Why does he go three days?。
Because Abraham obeys quickly, but he processes slowly.。
He knows God's asked it of me, so I'm going.。
But I'm gonna need some time to work this thing out as I go.。
Notice he is not in any way slow to the draw.。
He does not have a delayed obedience.。
He gets up and he goes, he prepares all of the mechanics。
for what God has asked him to do with his son, Isaac.。
And yet, though he has done all of it,。
he's just driving a little bit below the speed limit.。
Like he knows the destination, but he's just taking his time。
'cause he wants to make sure。
that he's not just begrudgingly going along,。
that he's not just blindly following God,。
but instead he is in agreement with everything God has asked.。
Do you see it?。
He wants to get his heart on board,。
which means some of us really need.。
We really need to do the same in our own life。
because too often we hear the commands of God。
and we want to be good Christian soldiers.。
And so we just say yes, and we go and do,。
and we actually don't ever let it trickle from our head。
into our heart and change who we are.。
You need to process slowly.。
You need to really consider.。
Others, that's not our issue.。
You know what we do?。
We're quick to process and we're slow to obey.。
We don't like what God's asked.。
And so we want to pray about it a little bit longer,。
maybe talk to community, get a little bit of counsel,。
sleep on it, wake up in the morning,。
maybe sleep on it again.。
We want to take our time because we're not confident,。
nor are we convinced of whatever it is。
God has asked us to do.。
And yet Abraham doesn't do any of that.。
He gets himself on board, head, heart,。
the entirety of who he is, and he says yes,。
which is a really big deal.。
Because if you remember what God has asked,。
it is a seemingly contradictory request.。
And I need you to hear this because this is so important。
to the crux of the story.。
He knows God has told him.。
It is through Isaac that you will become。
the father of many nations.。
And it is Isaac that I want you to kill.。
How does Abraham make sense of that contradiction?。
Hebrews 11 actually tells us.。
This is what's amazing about the Bible.。
It often interprets itself.。
It tells us in 17 through 19,。
by faith, Abraham, when God tested him,。
offered Isaac as a sacrifice.。
He who had embraced the promises。
was about to sacrifice his one and only son,。
even though God had said to him,。
it is through Isaac that your offspring will be reckoned.。
Abraham reasoned that God would even raise the dead.。
And so in a manner of speaking,。
he did receive Isaac back from death.。
It says that he reasoned,。
and it's the product of processing.。
He processed, how is God going to keep his promise。
if he kills my son?。
And he arrived at this conclusion.。
It must mean then that he's gonna raise him from the dead,。
which is a crazy conclusion to draw。
because by this point in human history,。
no one had ever experienced resurrection.。
And yet, though this is such an unreasonable thing。
in the eyes of the world, in Abraham's mind,。
it is more reasonable to believe the impossible with God。
than reasonable to think。
he would ever contradict his character.。
He believes in God.。
So I know some of you here,。
you've been asked by God to do something。
that feels pretty unreasonable.。
You've been asked to end that relationship,。
even though you've been together so long,。
to admit you lied,。
even though that person may never forgive you,。
to follow Jesus, even though your parents may disown you,。
to get some help,。
even though it's hard to admit you're suicidal,。
to keep the baby,。
even though it's probably gonna mess with your future.。
But just because it feels unreasonable to the world。
does not mean that it's unreasonable to God.。
See, God, he is still in the business of writing stories.。
He's still in the business of making miracles,。
and he is still in the business of keeping his promises.。
All of that is available for you.。
If it's available for Abraham, it is available for us,。
because he is the same God yesterday, today, and forever.。
Amen.。
Now, does that mean that you're gonna understand。
the details of how God's gonna do all of it,。
how he's gonna work it all out?。
No, because we see Abraham didn't.。
Look at verse five.。
Then Abraham said to his young men,。
"Hey, stay here with the donkey.。
"I and the boy, we'll go over there and we'll worship,。
"and we'll come again to you."。
You see it?。
We'll come again to you.。
The confidence.。
God will do something to save my son.。
And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering,。
and he laid it on Isaac, his son.。
And he took in his hand the fire and the knife.。
And so they went, both of them, together.。
And Isaac said to his father, Abraham, "My father."。
And he said to him, "Here I am, my son."。
He said, "Behold the fire and the wood,。
"but where's the land for the burnt offering?"。
And Abraham said, "God will provide for himself。
"the land for the burnt offering, my son."。
And so they went, both of them, together.。
Hand in hand, side by side,。
in complete complicity with each other.。
They went towards Mount Moriah.。
There's a lot of debate around what's actually happening。
in this scene, because conservative scholarship。
puts Isaac at like 13 to 20 years old.。
He's not a young boy.。
He's a young man, in some respect.。
And yet what you see is that he could get away。
from Abraham, who's north of 100, close to 120。
by this point.。
He goes with his father.。
Why?。
That's not because Abraham's pulled the wool over his eyes.。
It's not because he's planning to stab him in the back。
when he's not looking.。
I think the reason that they go together。
is because Abraham's just honest with him.。
He tells him, "Father, where's the lamb?"。
"I don't know, son, but the Lord will provide."。
Like he doesn't make anything up.。
He doesn't hide his cards.。
He just deals honestly。
because he actually believes the Lord will provide,。
which tells us the last thing you gotta know。
about why we face tests.。
Tests teach us that God always provides.。
Tests teach us that God always provides.。
You see, Abraham's confidence isn't in understanding。
the details of how God is gonna work this out,。
and ours should not be either.。
Last week, we talked about you do not need。
to understand everything to trust God.。
Here's the second part to that idea.。
But you do need to understand God。
to trust everything with him.。
Does that make sense?。
Like you don't have to know how things are gonna play out。
to know how God will play it out.。
But therein is the reason why some of you。
struggle to trust God.。
Some of you struggle to trust God。
because you actually don't know him.。
And I don't mean that as like a jab.。
I'm not trying to stir the pot。
or get anybody upset or insecure.。
But whenever we distrust God,。
it is the byproduct of not knowing God.。
Because it's not crazy to distrust someone you don't know.。
It's actually recommended.。
If you don't know them, don't get in the car with them,。
you know?。
And yet, it's a good telltale sign.。
If you distrust God, there may be something about him。
that you don't actually know.。
And the real danger of this is,。
because we live in the buckle of the Bible belt,。
is you know just enough about him.。
You grew up in the church, you've sung the songs,。
you know when to raise your hands in the right moments,。
you can answer the questions,。
you pray before your meals, even out in public,。
and you even can answer questions。
to all that the world might ask.。
And yet, though you can do all of that,。
your distrust of him,。
the fact that you rely on your own strength,。
the fact that you actually take safety in your insecurity,。
the fact that you live a double life,。
it testifies against you that you do not know him.。
Because if you did, you would trust him.。
You would do what Abraham does.。
Verse nine.。
So when they came to the place of which God had told them,。
Abraham built the altar there,。
and he laid the wood in order,。
and he bound Isaac his son,。
and he laid him on the altar, on top of the wood.。
Then Abraham reached out his hand,。
and he took the knife to slaughter his son,。
but the angel of the Lord called him from heaven。
and said, "Abraham, Abraham."。
And he said, "Here I am."。
He said, "Do not lay your hand on the boy。
"or do anything to him.。
"For now I know that you fear God,。
"seeing you've not withheld your son,。
"your only son from me."。
Question, does it bother anybody else。
that God waits until the last possible minute to stop him?。
Like, he waits until after Abraham。
has taken every single step.。
Like, he rose early in the morning.。
He saddled his donkey.。
He cut the wood.。
He gathered his servants.。
He made the journey three days long to Mount Moriah.。
He works it all out in his mind.。
They arrived there together.。
He leaves the servants.。
He and his son ascend at the same time.。
They get to the top.。
He builds the altar.。
He lays the wood.。
He binds his son.。
He puts him down.。
He picks up the knife and he raises it above his hand.。
And then God says, "Hey, stop."。
Why?。
Why does God do that?。
Because here's the thing that's really confronting for me.。
God is omniscient.。
He knows everything.。
Like, he knew.。
He knew already what Abraham was going to do。
before Abraham did any of it.。
Isaiah says, "God knows the end from the beginning."。
So there's nothing here。
that God is learning for the first time.。
In fact, Abraham is walking right in step。
with everything God already anticipated.。
So why then does God have him go this far?。
And this is big.。
God does not need to know that Abraham trusts him.。
He needs Abraham to know that he trusts God.。
That's why he has him go through with it.。
That's why he has him go this far.。
It's why God will test you in this life.。
And the truth is,。
he's already testing some of you here tonight.。
You know it for yourself.。
You know the situation,。
the circumstances that you're in right now.。
And yet you can know God is testing you。
because he wants you to be affirmed,。
to have this strong confidence,。
this rooted conviction that you trust him.。
You may not be able to make sense。
of why it's all happening the way it's happening.。
You may not know how this accords。
with his goodness or purposes.。
And yet you can be assured God is in fact good.。
He does have a great purpose。
and he will lead you forward in his great kindness.。
And because you do,。
it leads you to do what Abraham himself does.。
It leads you to put everything on the altar。
because you actually believe nothing is better than him.。
You see, this is the crazy thing.。
When you do, when you know beyond a shadow of a doubt。
that you trust God, you know what happens to you?。
You become like unlocked from the cares of this world。
and you become unleashed to move through this life。
in a way that the rest of the world knows nothing about.。
It frees you.。
It compels you.。
It drives you to be completely different.。
You become a force of nature for the kingdom of God.。
That's what God wanted for Abraham.。
He had great purposes.。
He had better plans and that's what he wants for you.。
But just as Abraham had to come to the altar,。
so too do we because the ultimate act of trust。
is always surrender.。
The ultimate act of trust is always surrender.。
I'll close with this in just a couple of minutes.。
When you have a newborn, every night feels like a test。
because I don't know if you know,。
but newborn babies don't sleep very much,。
which means you don't sleep very much either.。
And so when my wife and I brought our little boy Cash home。
for the very first time,。
then through the first few months with him,。
I realized, you know what, I'm gonna be up a lot.。
And so I should take advantage of the opportunity.。
God, how do I maximize this time with you?。
And I remembered the words of what some friends,。
some other fathers had told me in the past。
that I should think about my theology when I hold my son,。
that God will teach me much about himself as father。
when I myself as father hold my boy.。
And so here's what he taught me.。
Lessons from a father for a father.。
The things God taught me in the wee hours of the morning。
as I held my own son.。
Number one, every time he cries, I come running.。
Oh God, how much quicker do you come running。
when I cry to you?。
God, Cash never misses a meal and look how he's growing.。
Oh God, how foolish am I to not feast on your word。
for by it I grow too.。
If ever he's hurt, I'm never inconvenienced to care for him.。
Oh God, what a sweet reminder。
that I'm never an inconvenience to you either.。
When we dropped Cash at daycare for the first time。
into a situation unfamiliar and unknown to him,。
he may have feared that we abandoned him,。
but nothing could be further from the truth.。
Oh God, you too never abandoned me。
no matter what my circumstances may say.。
God, I often sing over Cash in the middle of the night。
to comfort him.。
Thank you that you sing over me too.。
And lastly, does he ever reach for me。
that I don't with love scoop him up?。
Oh God, so too are you compassionate to me.。
God taught me a lot in those early days,。
in those early hours with my son.。
But it was just a couple of months ago。
when I found myself in what felt like a long forgotten memory。
asking the same question, God, what you would teach me.。
Because as I put my son to bed, he was a little sick.。
And so he laid his head on my chest.。
Normally he's reaching for the crib。
and he's trying to get away.。
And yet this night, he just wanted to rest.。
And as I held him again, I asked God,。
God, is there anything you wanna teach me tonight?。
Only this time, God did not want to teach me about his heart.。
He wanted to teach me about mine.。
Because as we were talking with one another,。
in the dark of that room,。
I sensed the prompting question come to mind.。
Kylan, do you trust me enough。
to surrender your son fully to me?。
And as I stood there, sound machine in the background。
swaying back and forth, tears filling my eyes,。
I thought to myself,。
I do trust you, God, I do trust you.。
And the reason I trusted him then,。
and the reason you can trust him tonight。
is because he has provided.。
We see it at the end of the story, verses 13 and 14.。
And Abraham lifted up his eyes and he looked.。
And behold, behind him was a ram,。
caught in a thicket by his horns.。
And Abraham went and he took the ram。
and he offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son.。
So Abraham called the name of that place。
the Lord will provide.。
As it is said to this day,。
on the Mount of the Lord, it shall be provided.。
On that day, God looked at Abraham and he said,。
only one of us will sacrifice our son.。
And so God did.。
For on the same Mount, Mount Moriah,。
which Abraham ascended to offer his son,。
God had his own son ascend that same Mount。
to lay down his life for the sins of the world.。
For by his own blood,。
every curse of sin has been cleansed。
for those that place their faith in him.。
And we can know just as God surrendered his son。
that we might trust in him tonight.。
In response, we can surrender whatever it is。
that might be obstructing our affections。
as we trust in him again.。
Let me pray that you would.。
God, I ask you now to do what only you can do.。
First God, I pray that you would impress upon my friends。
here in the room how real this moment is,。
that God, this moment right here, right now,。
it would be so easy to just get up and to move on,。
to feel, God, all the distractions of an inbox。
and a calendar and other preoccupations, Lord,。
that would lead us to disconnect.。
And yet, God, I know, God, I believe。
that we move through these evenings。
and over the course of it all,。
but particularly right now, you minister to us.。
And so, God, I pray we would do what Abraham himself did,。
and this is secondly.。
I ask, God, that we would come to the altar,。
and, oh, Lord, we would lay down whatever it is, God,。
that we love, we cherish, we value, God,。
even possibly more than you,。
as a declaration that for you, God,。
who loved us so much that you would send your only son,。
we, God, who love you in response,。
would offer up anything and everything。
that might stand to challenge you.。
Jesus, I pray, would my friends here know。
you did ascend that mount, you carried that wood,。
you even, Father, by way of your son,。
took the instrument of your death and you slayed yourself。
so that we, God, might not die the death deserving。
of our sin, for you died instead,。
but rather because you rose in victory,。
we can place our faith in you and we can rise ourself.。
Would you help us, God, now to respond?。
Oh, God, let us respond, please, we pray in Christ's name.。
Amen.。
