My heart is very full. My stomach is also very full. I ate at Terry Black's today. Praise。
God. New York City is known for food, but not brisket. So, feeling blessed. Hopefully。
this goes well so I can come back and eat at Terry Black's again. Tonight, I want to。
talk to you about the season we are in in the body of Christ. Fair warning, this is。
more of a sermon for if you're already a Christian. If you're not a Christian, I'm so glad that。
you're here, but this is kind of like an in-house word. If you are a believer, I think we are。
in unprecedented days. We're in a moment of time that we need to be aware of and lean。
into. So my frame, my goal for you tonight is really, one, that we would see the season。
we are in. Number two, to set a new bar for you in this season. And the third thing is,。
how do we step in and seize this season of what God is up to on the earth? My passage。
is going to be based out of Joel, chapter 2, verses 12 through 17. It's one of my favorite。
verses in the Old Testament, quoted often in the New Testament. But before we begin,。
I do need to address one thing. You're probably sitting there wondering, "What part of New。
York is this guy from?" I often joke I'm from the southern part of New York. I'm basically。
from the southeast, grew up in Alabama. I think it's hilarious to hear him say I can。
articulate. I think that's the first time something's been said about someone from Alabama。
being able to articulate. One of my favorite stories, moving to New York, I've lived there。
for about five years now. I am proof and evidence that God can use anybody, anywhere, at any。
time. I help oversee a citywide prayer movement happening in the city in all five boroughs.。
When I first moved to the city, I was meeting with a pastor from Queens, and he said, "Man,。
what country are you from?" And I was like, "Well, I guess you could say I'm from the。
country." He's like, "No, seriously, what country are you from?" He's dead serious.。
I'm like, "Dude, I'm from, like, the country, the south, the woods." And I said, "Dude,。
what country are you from?" He said, "I'm from Queens." I said, "That's not a country,。
we'll let it pass." So it is good to be back here in the south with you guys. If you would。
turn to Joel chapter 2, 12 through 17, I believe it'll be on the screens with me here. It's。
the word of the Lord, "Yet even now declares the Lord, 'Return to me with all your heart,。
with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning. And rend your hearts and not your garments.。
Turn to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding。
in steadfast love. And he relents over disaster. Who knows whether he will not turn and relent。
and leave a blessing behind him, a grain offering and a drink offering for the Lord your God.。
Blow the trumpet in Zion, consecrate a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the people,。
congregate the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children, even nursing infants.。
Let the bridegroom leave his room and the bride her chamber. Between the vestibule and。
the altar, let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep and say, 'Spare your people,。
O Lord, and make not your heritage a reproach, a byword among the nations.' Why should they。
say among the peoples, 'Where is their God?'" This is the word of the Lord, let's pray.。
Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your spirit. Father, we thank you。
for the bold and confident access we have to the broken body and the shed blood of Jesus.。
Father, tonight we invite you to fill this space. You're already here, but we ask you。
to increase your presence in the room. I pray for the spirit of wisdom and revelation and。
the knowledge of you to fill this place. Lord, I do not come tonight in eloquent words denying。
the gospel of its power. I desire that I would sound like a fool and you'd be present more。
than me sound eloquent and you'd be absent. And so we just invite you now individually。
but also corporately to fill this space, to awaken us not just for a moment, but to awaken。
us for a movement of what you are desiring to do on the earth. In Jesus' name we pray,。
amen. Joel 2 is an incredible passage because this invitation, the yet even now from the。
Lord is given in a time of judgment. It's given in a time of decline when God's people。
are decaying and yet there's this window that's opened yet even now. This is often one of。
my favorite things to pray is that no matter how far someone has gone, there's still always。
the yet even now. It wasn't yesterday, it isn't tomorrow, but there's a now window of。
time. And that invitation is based and it requires a response of God's people, but it's。
based on who the Lord is. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding。
in steadfast love. This is the announcement that God gives to himself. In Exodus 34, it's。
the first time that God describes who he is. In Exodus 34, he steps down with Moses and。
the Lord announces in his own procession, the Lord, the Lord, gracious and compassionate,。
slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. That is the most quoted passage in all the。
Bible when God is announcing who he is. And because we know who he is, that demands a。
response in our lives. You know, the gospel is not something we initiate to in our own。
action. It's something we respond to once we received it. But the gospel does require。
a very specific response. My goal tonight is to kind of awaken a new response inside。
of you, to stir a new thing inside of you, to shake something awake inside of you. I。
don't do this from a place of arrogance. I don't do this from a place of having it figured。
out. Um, I was pastored in South Carolina for over 12 years and I was a prayerless pastor.。
I love Jesus. I love the word. I love missions. I love the church. I love God's people, but。
I mean, I just struggled in a place of prayer. And the Lord started taking me on this journey。
where I've been a part of large churches. I've been a part of seeing incredible things,。
but man, just this angst and desire that I just think there's more. There's this now。
window where God is trying to do something. How do we step into that? But it ends with。
this question of why should they say among the peoples, where is their God? And I believe。
we are in a very significant season where the question, where is their God is now changing.。
We are seeing signs of awakening all over the Western church, all over the American。
church. There is this awakening to who the Lord actually is. And I believe if we steward。
this moment, we will actually see a significant shift in the body of Christ. And so this first。
thing I want to help you see this season, the moment we are in, there is a now window.。
Not in 10 years, not when you settle down and figure out your life, there's a now window。
of return. And this invitation to return and Joel, no one is left out. Children, you're。
getting married. You're brought to the table. Everyone, elders brought to the table. This。
is not a gen Z movement. This is an everyone movement. This is, we all have a part to play.。
And if we want to see where the name of Jesus in our culture currently is mocked and laughed。
at, Jesus is more of a swear word in New York city than is a word that's honored and revered.。
But I pray every time it's in the atmosphere that one day, one day, every knee will bow.。
And if we want to see the name go from where is their God to, I believe we're going to。
see a shift in Psalm 24, who is this king of glory that you're going to have people。
in your life. And you might even be those people in the room that you had this, where。
is their God to now you bow down before the king of glory. We've lived in seasons of history。
like this before. Now it's important to note, I don't think we're at the fullness of that.。
I think it's just now begun. I'm using the word tonight seasoned very intentionally.。
I would love to use the word moment. It sounds better, you know, maximize your moment, step。
in your moment. When I'm talking about a season, you need to know this. God works in times。
and seasons. God's appointed the stars, the moons and Genesis for times and seasons. The。
enemy works in cycles. And if you want to grow in your walk with God, you need to learn。
how to pay attention to the signs and seasons, the times and seasons in which God is moving。
and stay in step with that. We're super aware in our lives of our seasons. We're super aware。
of what we're walking through, but I often think we're missing heaven's invitation and。
what heaven is walking through. One of my frames of reference is I love to study revival。
history and we've got to experience this season shift in America. In the year 1966, the cover。
of Time Magazine was this, "Is God Dead?" Decay and decline was so rampant in the body。
of Christ, it provoked news articles, Time Magazine asking the question, "Is God Dead?"。
Well, what I love is it's times like this of decline and decay that God begins to do。
something and that God begins to step in. And when we have done a poor job representing。
him to the world, he'll just say, "Hey, don't mind me, but I'm going to represent myself."。
What's amazing is five years later in 1971, this is the cover of Time Magazine, "The Jesus。
Revolution." We have seen a shift in our lifetime of something like this happening. But what's。
also unfortunate, if you study revival history, a lot of maybe your parents or people you。
know were deeply impacted by the Jesus movement that hit America. But most revival historians。
will tell you this was the least stewarded move of God in history. That God was moving。
in mass and he was moving in such a way that the church and the people of God were not。
ready to handle it. Often because the church did not know what to do with the people who。
were coming back to God because he was drawing them to themselves, they just had to kind。
of go off and separate. And so my goal is as we say, "Hey folks, I don't think revival。
is here yet. I don't think awakening is here yet." I do believe we're seeing the early。
signs of it. And I don't want us to celebrate too soon. I don't want us to get enamored。
with hype. I don't want us to get enamored with we've made it. We are just getting started.。
When I am saying the word season, I am talking to you right now in the 40-year version of。
future you. When God is talking about seasons, he's talking about decades. He's not talking。
about days. And I think we are entering into a season in the body of Christ where his name。
is going to be made known. His name is going to be made renowned. I feel like I can hear。
heaven's invitation sometimes saying like, "He's coming. Are we ready yet?" And so my。
goal is to really help us get ready for that window of time and how can we steward better。
to where we're not just in this cycle once again, going, "Is God dead?" We're seeing。
the early signs of awakening, but how do we steward this to not just be a visitation from。
God from a moment in a generation, but turn into a habitation that goes on to future generations?。
So with that, I just have to address something. I want to help set the bar for you in this。
season. I'm very convinced that no one wants to live a lukewarm faith. No one signed up。
to follow Jesus just like, "Hey, I'm just going to kill this half-heartedly." The issue。
is, we just need to have somebody to show us how to burn. Someone to show us what a。
life in following God looks like. We've got so afraid, me and AJ traveled with me here。
from New York and we were talking about this on the way here is, honestly, it's our rejection。
of legalism-like culture that has led us to a place where we're actually a little bit。
lawless in the body of Christ. And what's helpful to know is, "Hey, it's actually helpful。
to have a bar set for you to know where we're going." Leonard Ravenhill says this, "To。
the question, 'Where is the Lord God of Elijah?' we answer, 'Where he has always been, on the。
throne.' But where are the Elijahs of God? One praying man stands with the majority with。
God. Today, God is bypassing men, not because they are too ignorant, but because they are。
too self-sufficient. Brethren, our abilities are our handicaps and our talents are our。
stumbling blocks." I love Ravenhill and I love this quote, "Where is the God of Elijah?"。
And he says, "No, no, no, the question is, where are the Elijahs of God?" I want to set。
a bar for you, set a baseline for you in what following Jesus should look like. This is。
said very invitationally, not legalistically. This is said from a presence base, not a performance。
base. But I wish when I was early in my walk with God and even in pastoral ministry, someone。
would have said, "Hey, Sam, I love that you like the Bible. Can I just set a bar for you。
like how much time you should spend in the Word? Like, I just invite you to what formation。
would look like." I know you guys can't tell, but I hate working out. It's like my least。
favorite thing on earth. We're here looking at Kyle and like, "Lord, impart that to me.。
I need a miracle. I need power." I've done all the stuff, you know, like if you go to。
the gym a lot, you'll like it more. And it's like, it actually turns out the more I go,。
the less I like it. What I feel like we're doing in the body of Christ is not to make。
light of this is because we're so afraid of legalism. Everyone's like, "Hey, you should。
read your Bible." A new Christian walks in the door and they're like, "Yeah, read my。
Bible. Man, I found this Bible app. It's called the verse of the day. I'm on the subway heading。
from the Bronx to Manhattan. Get my verse of the day and I'm fed." It's the equivalent。
of me like, "Hey guys, I'm gonna let y'all know, but I'm starting working out." Went。
to the gym. And it's like, and I just keep telling my friends, boasting and working out.。
It's like, "I walk in the gym, I pick up one dumbbell, a curl, walk out." That'd be my。
preferred method of working out anyway, if that could count. Like that would be insane.。
Any of us would tell our friends like, "Hey dude, that's like not how you actually work。
out." I appreciate the fact that you're going to the gym, but you might need to get a trainer。
or a coach to help you understand how the equipment actually works. That is really my。
goal is to invite you. And again, this is said, I'm the most joyful, fun guy. I often。
say this line, "In the kingdom of God, God grades on a good bell curve." 60% of the kingdom。
is an A. So do not feel a yoke of legalism come over you, but hear an invitation from。
the Lord. Romans 12, I know Kylin preached on this. "Therefore, I urge you, brothers。
and sisters, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and。
pleasing to God. This is your true and proper worship." If you have not looked at this through。
the lens of the mercy of God, through the lens of the broken body and the shed blood。
of Jesus, you're looking at it inappropriately. If what I get ready to invite you into starts。
with you, we've already missed the point altogether. This invitation is based on who he is and。
what he has done for us. It's also Dallas Word that has this quote that I love, "Grace。
is not opposed to effort, but to earning." And it's important to note this because the。
background we are currently under is there's an awakening right now of spiritual curiosity,。
but spiritual formation is still on the decline. And so if we're not awakening people to what。
they should actually be walking in, my question would be, what are we awakening them into?。
So the latest Pew research on fasting cultures in American religion. So these are American。
stats. 80% of American Muslims fast. 49% of American Jews fast. 40% of American Catholics。
fast. 34% of black Protestants fast. 16% of white evangelicals fast. And there's a lot。
of talk right now about, you know, New York has a Muslim mayor and there's all about the。
rise of Islam. And my question is like, "Hey, are you talking about it? Are you responding。
to it with your body?" That Joel 2, he says, "Return to me, not with your mouth, with fasting,。
mourning." The return to God isn't just said with words, it's returned with a lifestyle.。
And so here, my friends, very cautiously, but very invitationally, I want to give you。
a baseline bar for what it means to follow Jesus. And I say baseline because what we。
call radical right now is not even recognizable to the faith we've inherited. If you looked。
at the early church right now, don't say it's any bit of shame, but this is like get mentored。
by church history. What we call radical in our day and age would just be called normal。
Christianity. Number one, read the word daily. No, you know that I recommend an hour a day。
in the word. 30 minutes in the morning, 30 minutes at night. Bonus points if you get。
the verse of the day in at your lunchtime. You know, if you just want to be a overachiever,。
you're a gold star. Folks, I often, I live in New York. It's a busy place, short on time.。
I don't know if you're consistently haunted about thinking I never have time. And then。
somebody at Apple's a Christian because they send you your screen time report on Sunday。
mornings. I'm usually sitting in church like, God, I'm just like giving you my everything.。
I got screen time. I was like, apparently not. Apparently I don't give my attention。
to a lot of other places. Folks just want to say, if you're not spending 30 minutes。
in the morning and 30 minutes at night in the word, you are being way more formed by。
Instagram, Netflix, all those things. And I say that as a person, I love to binge watch。
just as much as anybody. But this is a good baseline of like, man, you should spend an。
hour a day in the word. If I can give you a helpful kind of impartation here, meditation,。
repetition, and saturation. Meditation, repetition, and saturation. You should saturate yourself。
with the word of God. What I mean by that, you, I don't know if you know this, but in。
the early church, when they got like the book of Hebrews, they didn't go verse by verse,。
line by line. They read the whole thing. Like you read in the book of like Ezra, it's like。
they stood and read the law of the Lord. I don't know if you ever stood up and read the。
law of the Lord, it's pretty long. But like, there's this thing about saturating yourself in the word.。
I want to say this, if you struggle walking in purity in your life, Psalm 119 says, how。
can a man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. Learning to saturate。
your mind. Guys, it's never been easier. We've got things like the dwell app. I walk around。
New York city, just listen, somebody can read it to me even better. Saturate your spirit.。
Read it. Find a passage of scripture, pray the Psalms, pick Psalm 24. If you don't know。
what to do and just recite Psalm 24 over and over, repeat it, chew on it, mull it over.。
And then meditation. Man, get lost in a passage. Spend hours in Colossians 1. Like read deeply。
in those spaces. So often you find people that like pick their preference. Like they。
love like the 30 day shred Bible reading plan. Don't recommend. Or they're like, man, I love。
just like one chapter, one verse. It's like, you know what I love? All of it. I'm just。
trying to go like the buffet of the Bible and eat as much of it as I can, as often as。
I can, because you need to know that something is forming you. Let's just make a decision.。
That'll be the word of God that's forming us. So just invite you an hour a day in the。
word, 30 minutes in the morning, 30 minutes at night. God grades on a good bill curve.。
Amen. The next one fast weekly. I recommend a 24 hour fast with an extended 72 hour fast。
monthly. Ooh, I hate fasting. Hey, me too. You know, I love feasting. That's my favorite。
spiritual discipline. I'm good at it. I'll be at Terry Black's every day, but you just。
cannot deny fasting carries power. It really does. There's a lot. I could teach a whole。
sermon on that, but I do want to say Jesus, his disciples are confronted with something。
in the gospels and in the gospels, they're confronted with something. They're not able。
to do anything. And Jesus begins to ask them, Hey, what do we need to do? Like his disciples。
say, why could we not cast this out? Jesus comes to him and says, Hey, this kind only。
comes out through prayer and fasting this kind. I think we're facing something in this。
generation that only comes out. But what's important to know is Jesus did not call a。
three day fast there. Jesus did not call in that moment of time, a prayer meeting. Jesus。
had a lifestyle. Jesus had a rhythm of fasting. If you know the fabric of the ancient near。
East society, it was normal for them to practice fasting in a significant way. And so you would。
experience a lifestyle of this happening. And so I want to invite you not to a moment。
of fasting for a specific breakthrough you need, but a lifestyle of fasting so that when。
that moment comes, you've got a well of power to pull from. You've got a reservoir of a。
history with God that you're able to do something. Read the word fast weekly, pray intentionally。
one hour, at least four times a week. Folks. Again, I'm not trying to Lord some legalistic。
thing over you, but Kylan spoke about this earlier. He said, I heard him say this in。
a huddle meeting. The spirit is willing. The flesh is weak. Jesus, when confronted with。
his disciples, inability to pray three time confronts them in March chapter 14. And he。
says, could you not pray one hour? But what's interesting, he says, could you not pray so。
that you would not enter into temptation? Again, if you feel succumb to temptation in。
your life, I would invite you to Jesus says the issue with temptation is you need to learn。
how to spend an hour in prayer. One hour prayers for temptation. If you want to see your like。
college campus taken back for Jesus, if you don't see your workplace shift, your neighborhood。
shift is going to take more than just one hour of prayer. Again, folks, I'm just, this。
is the bar Jesus said, not me. This is the bar that our church history speaks up. Read。
the word daily, fast weekly, pray intentionally, seek God deeply, extended times once a month.。
So seeking God deeply. I love that Sabbath has gotten really popular. It's beautiful.。
Sabbath is a day set apart for God. Most people, I feel like their Sabbath rhythm is like how。
they're going to order their like buffet of the day. Extended times with God, spending。
time with God that you want to engage with someone that you know, and you like, I often。
try to set aside one day, once a month can be a Saturday just to spend like eight hours。
uninterrupted with God. It can like walking an apartment and saying, Lord, here's my day.。
I'm offering it to you. I want to spend time with you. Getting lost in the word, getting。
lost in the beauty of the world, but man carving out this space so you can spend time with。
him. All right, so back to the baseline bar, read the word daily, fast weekly, pray intentionally,。
seek God deeply, share your faith weekly. Folks, this is so important. The gospel was。
not meant to be received, but meant to be proclaimed. People in your workplace should。
know you're a Christian and not because of your political view, but because you're in。
love with Jesus and you talk about him often. Some people are more natural evangelists,。
but we're all called to be witnesses. And so I love to set this up. Hey, share the gospel。
or pray with someone publicly once a week. I'm around people all the time in New York。
city. I'm around prayer meetings often. I can easily just leave the prayer meeting,。
go right back to my thing and actually miss people that God has brought into my life to。
minister to. Just have it your aim. God, if you're looking for someone to share your heart。
with today, I'm available. This can often lead to a gospel conversation, but often it。
can just lead to a moment to pray for someone. I don't know if you know this, people are。
not doing that well in the world. It might look good on the outside, but typically people。
are depressed, anxious, worried, and they're longing for hope. They're longing for some。
measure of escape. And we are the people who are carriers of that thing. Let's be bold。
in sharing that public faith and public witness. And then last, but certainly not least is。
gathering consistently. Would you just resolve right now to commit to the corporate life?。
Here's what I mean by this. The corporate expression of the church, this, a Sunday gathering,。
a daily gathering, the early church gathered daily. There's this element right now where。
people keep pulling themselves away and isolating away from the greater body. And it's like,。
no, no, you need to be radically committed to the corporate body in what God is doing.。
Ladies and gentlemen, this is, if we want to step into this season in which God is moving,。
we got to set a new bar for us. And I want to say right now, Hey, if you're at, I've。
never prayed more than five minutes a day. Don't shoot for an hour yet. You know, I'm。
not working out, so I'm not going to go try to lift 315 pounds from day one, right? I'm。
going to have like eight spotters and all the help I can get. But just once they start。
somewhere, I was a prayerless pastor in my life. And I just want to say, just invite。
you just to turn it up one degree, wherever you are, just turn up one degree. If you spend。
25 minutes a day in the word, then start spending 30. And then slowly over time to start turning。
that notch up. And you will be astounded at where your life with God is in a decade, resetting。
a new baseline. But that leads to, Hey, if we want to see a moment shift and want to。
have a significant season happen, we also need to seize the season we are in. God works。
in times and seasons. And there is a window of mercy right now. I think over the Western。
church and over the Western world. And I want us to step into it and seize it with everything。
we've got. This is about positioning yourself. You've played sports. You know, this often,。
I often got, I wasn't the best at sports. I'm super tall, but do not mistake my height。
with athleticism. Um, I, my clumsiness outpaces my height. And often the basketball coach。
say, Sam, you're out of position and you got to get positioned and postured in a way in。
the moment that we are in. If we want to see God move in a significant way to sustain this。
lifestyle. I love how God moved at the awakening conference, but I want to invite you to as。
an awakened lifestyle and awaken lifestyle lived out over the course of 30 or 40 years,。
not just three or four weeks. The enemy wants nothing more than you to cycle back down.。
And I think God wants you to step fully into what he's asking you to do. So I'm gonna hit。
five postures quickly that we need to step into the posture to position yourself to step。
in fully into the season and what God is getting ready to do. The first one is seek the posture。
of pursuit, resolving yourself to live a lifestyle of seeking God. One of the things I actually。
love about pastoring in New York city is the human heart is designed to seek things. And。
in New York city, that's just on full display. The city is full of seekers, seeking fame,。
seeking fortune, you name what it is they're looking for. You'll find it there. Now, someone。
who's from the South and pastoral South is a little bit different in Southern Christianity.。
I would actually say the thing you got to watch for in the South is we'll fall asleep。
too quickly. New York city, they're seeking the wrong thing. And the South will often。
seek the wrong thing, but they will also just fall asleep with comfort. But it's important。
to note this, that the apostle Paul quotes this, he's quoting the Psalmist that no one。
seeks God, no, not one. You need to understand this. It is a supernatural thing for you to。
hunger and thirst after God. You know what changed my life is I wake up every day assuming。
my heart has grown cold. I wake up every day assuming my heart is drifting away from God。
and just saying, Holy Spirit, would you help reawaken love for Jesus in me? Would you reawaken。
this on a daily basis? It is just as supernatural for you to want to seek God as it is anything。
else. And so just resolving, man, I want to live a lifestyle of everyone is seeking something.。
I just want to seek the one thing that actually matters. Jesus in a day and age when culture。
is just overwhelmed in life, he's talking about, don't worry about what you're going。
to eat, what you're going to wear. I know the cares of the world, but he says, but seek。
first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.。
Commit to living a lifestyle of seeking God. Hebrews 11, get this in your spirit. Without。
faith it is impossible to please him. For everyone drawn near to God must believe that。
he exists and he rewards those that seek him. Folks, you know what faith is? Faith is believing。
number one, that God is real. Number two, that he rewards those that seek after him.。
You have no idea what is on the other side of you committing to living a lifestyle of。
seeking God for God's sake. That is full of results and rewards that you could not believe.。
Commit yourself to living a life seeking him. The second posture we need to take if we're。
going to sustain what God is doing in this hour and in this season is a posture to submit.。
The posture of allegiance. I don't know if this is your journey, but early in my walk。
with God, I would actually exchange serving for obedience. I would show up and do a lot。
more stuff because I was actually disobeying God in other areas of my life. A.W. Tozer。
says you cannot substitute praying with obeying. I love that God is awakening prayer right。
now all over the Western church, but the reality is I also hope at the same time that obedience,。
it is awakening responsive hearts to us. Quick hearts to yield. Everyone is committing their。
allegiance to something. I just want us to commit to the one who is worthy of our allegiance.。
I often say this in prayer, Jesus, you are worthy of my attention, my affection, my adoration,。
and my allegiance. Receive all of it. Holy spirit helped me to give my allegiance to。
Jesus, not to lesser things today. The next posture that we need to learn how。
to operate in, I think this is really important in the Western church right now, is the posture。
of confidence in standing. I've been in full-time pastoral ministry for 15 years now, and I've。
actually become more impressed with what people often are not impressed by. So often we love。
the seasons of zeal. We love the seasons of fervor. We love the moments like an awakening。
conference where like God does and he awakens us a significant way. But I've actually come。
to respect and honor even more is when someone is walking through a super difficult time。
and they just keep showing up. The word endurance, steadfast, immovable, words like that are。
quoted over 400 times in the Bible, 200 times in the New Testament alone. Pastoring in New。
York City, I pastor what I call high-performance individuals. Usually the best of the best,。
best schools, best colleges. You see this a lot with athletes. People who are really。
good at performing and doing well struggle in seasons where they're just showing up.。
But I would make the argument to you, I think it's just as supernatural to stand now. It's。
just as supernatural for you to show up when you don't feel like it, show up when life。
is hard. And it's in those moments I think God is actually more enamored by your life.。
Those moments actually require more faith. I love the zeal. I love the passion. I also。
love to see what happens when their life starts getting pressed. And some of the people I。
respect the most, it's in those difficult seasons, they just show up and they remain。
standing. In Ephesians 6, he says, "Therefore, take up the whole armor of God that you may。
be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand, stand therefore."。
I often talk about, I'm gonna date myself here a bit, forgive me. I'm an expert in rocky。
theology. Who here has seen the Rocky movies? Please show of hands. Okay, I'm in Texas,。
this feels good. I asked that question in New York and it was like nobody. So, feel。
better already. I often say, I had a spiritual father tell me years ago, "Life is like a。
Rocky movie. You just need to know which one you're in." This preaches all day. Rocky 1,。
if you don't get knocked out, you win. Sometimes you're in a season of life where if you just。
don't get knocked out, you win. Rocky 2 is coming, we take down Apollo Creed. Rocky 3。
is coming when you get domesticated and get lazy and Clever Lane starts coming through。
the ranks. Mick tells him, "The worst thing that ever happened to you would happen to。
a fighter. You got domesticated." Then Rocky 4 will come, you know, one day God will send。
you to the nations to shake nations. And then the best part is generational transfer begins,。
the Creed series. And Creed is so good. So, I just wanna tell you, sometimes this is not。
a joke. I'll be sitting in the place of the Lord going, "Oh, I think I'm in Rocky 1 right。
now." Most of you think you're in Rocky 2 or Rocky 4. And I wanna tell you, you know,。
right now you're probably in Rocky 1. Just don't get knocked out, you're doing better。
than you think you are. Just stand. It's supernatural for you not to get knocked out. Hold your。
ground because that ground belongs to you. So, learning how to seek, how to submit, how。
to stand, but then in your standing, learn how to strike. The posture of war. Ladies。
and gentlemen, I hate to tell you, you are born into a war. Retreat is not an option.。
Learn from yourself. You have an adversary roaming around looking to devour you. He is。
not looking how to discourage you. He's not looking how to distract you. He is looking。
to steal, kill, and destroy from your life. So often in the West, we've made it me and。
God. It's like, "Hey, folks, there's a whole 'nother party out here actively coming against。
your life. You've gotta wake up to that." Colossians 1, 13-14 says, "He has delivered。
us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son, in。
whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins." I just don't know if you know this.。
You need to pay attention. There is no neutral in the world. People are either in the kingdom。
of light or the kingdom of darkness. Right now, it's amazing to me, New Age spirituality,。
what we would call witchcraft back in the day, is taking a forefront, but we're seeing。
people like never before come out of that world. Just recently in the city, we had someone。
that was a tarot card influencer on TikTok give their life to Jesus because they said,。
"I had an encounter with love that I cannot ignore, and it's demanding that I lay down。
my life for this." The reality is we think that's like a cool trend, but no, that's been。
on the surface for a long time. John Piper has this in, and I wanna give you a couple。
practicals on how to strike. He says, "Prayer is a wartime walkie-talkie. It is not a domestic。
intercom to ring up the butler to bring another comfort to the den where we're already more。
secure than we should be." So my picture of the Christian life is that when you get saved,。
you get recruited. God doesn't recruit Christians for ministry. He recruits unbelievers for。
it. If you are saved, you are a soldier or you're AWOL. And he recruits us, and he gives。
us a walkie-talkie called prayer. This is important to know. He's talking about why。
does prayer not get answered. He's like, "Hey, because you think you're calling a butler,。
you're actually calling a general." The God of angel armies. But you need to learn how。
to steward that. So let me give you a couple quick things. Number one, you wanna become。
effective at striking, causing damage. In a season where you're standing, you can still。
strike. What do you need God to do for you? Ask him to do that for other people. It is。
amazing if you can learn how to shift what you are walking through into prayer for other。
people, how effective of an intercessor you become. For example, I meet with pastors often.。
There's this phrase called pastor's kids. It's just like, "Hey, while we're praying。
for your son to come home, let's just take a moment and pray for a thousand other pastor。
kids to come home. While we're praying for that family member that has cancer, let's。
just start lifting up every family in the Dallas-Fort Worth area that has cancer." Like,。
when you start broadening your reach of what you need God to do just beyond you, you become。
real dangerous in the kingdom of God. The second thing I wanna caution you with is you。
need to understand your words matter. I think we're often striking one another without even。
knowing it. Friendly fire. I wrestle often with, "When do you start praying and when。
do you stop?" Is it when you close your eyes and bow your head? Is it then within the middle。
of a phrase you just say, "Father?" So it's interesting if you think about this often,。
I think we don't understand the power of this in our words. And often I can spend time in。
praying but then just go right to that place of prayer and begin to speak poorly about。
my brother or sister and I think I'm doing just as much damage. So caution you to guard。
your tongue in this season. And the third thing I wanna say is it's not just about restoration。
of what is lost, you need to ask for restoration with interest. One of my prayers is for every。
year of decline we've had in the Western church, which right now we're on a 40-year decline,。
it's just started shifting upwards. I want a decade of revival. Right now New York City。
has tons of protests, protesting injustice, which I actually think is a deep cry for their。
longing for God. And my prayer often is, Lord, for every parade of injustice on the earth,。
every protest of injustice on the earth, I want a thousand parades of your justice. When。
they see your righteousness and justice rolling like a river through the streets, I want there。
to be a parade, people partying how just and kind you are. Ask not just for restoration。
of what was lost, but restoration with interest. If you can learn how to strike in prayer,。
guard your mouth, and then ask for things with interest, you will be a weapon in the。
kingdom of God. And last but certainly not least, these are postures, how to position。
yourself to step into the moment in which God is asking us to do is you need to sing.。
The posture of triumph. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to get that song of defeat out。
of your mouth. For years, I would wake up every day and read an account of revival history.。
Did this for many years just to stir my faith for what's possible, what God can do. Last。
year, I felt the Lord tell me to stop. Didn't like it because I'm a routine person and Lord。
actually started asking me to read accounts of martyrdom every day. And, uh, not quite。
as fun as revival history. It's like not the best way to start your day is brutal. And。
I was actually wrestling with the Lord about this. And I felt the Lord said, Hey, there's。
something you're missing. I just want you to see. And what's amazing if you read through。
the history of the faith that we've received, saints who've lived incredible lives, there's。
a trait that goes from the Roman empire all the way over Scotland. I mean, you really。
trace this. It is when people are being martyred. It's not just, they're willing to stand for。
Jesus that often in that moment, they sing, they'll sing the Psalms. I've never seen the。
righteous go hungry or without bread. And what's amazing is while people were threatening。
to take their lives, what they recognize is you could not take my song. And some of you,。
you allow the songs of culture, songs of the world, the song of the moment you're in to。
dictate the song that you sing. But I want to invite you, there is a song that has been。
sung for many generations. There's a song, there's a name that has been lifted for thousands。
of years. That name is a real name. That throne is a real throne. Today, the realest thing。
about our lives today is there's a real throne in heaven. There's a real King seated on that。
throne. He was worthy of praise a thousand years ago. He'd be worthy of praise a thousand。
years from now. And I'm just joining my voice with the song that people can sing. There's。
an old Scottish proverb. Let me make a nation's music and I care not who makes this loss.。
The Spurgeon that once said this, "Any fool can sing in the day. It's easy to sing when。
we can read the notes by daylight, but the skillful singer is he who can sing when there。
is no ray of light." I want to invite you that you need to, I'm not a worship leader.。
I'm not a music guy, but there's an atmosphere of your heart. There is a song, there's an。
anthem in you. You're singing it, whether you know it or not. It might be the song of。
the world. It might be the song of the moment, but there's a song of the land that needs。
to be sung all the time. It's why you feel moments in worship of revenants when you start。
saying like, "Worthy is the lamb, worthy, holy." These things that start coming out。
of us because it's like, "Oh, we're joining in the anthem of heaven right now." Second。
Corinthians 2:14, "But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal。
procession and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere." Folks,。
you carry a song. It's not a song that's telling about a moment. It's not a song that shifts。
by how things feel. You have a song of victory on your lips because the blood of the lamb,。
the word of your testimony, and who loved not your lives unto death. And so I beg and。
implore to you that if we want to see God shift our culture in the next 40 years, you。
need to see the moment you're in and respond accordingly. You need to set a new baseline。
bar for what actually following Jesus looks like and you need how to posture yourself。
and position yourself so we can step in fully into the moment that God has for us. I'm going。
to pray for us. I'm going to invite the Holy Spirit. I'm going to invite the band up. If。
you would just move, maybe open your hands. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank。
you for your ministry. And so we invite you right now, come Holy Spirit. You've been here.。
When we ask you to come, we're actually just asking you to come deeper. Get closer. It's。
going to take a few seconds here to wait upon the Lord. He might be speaking to you already.。
Just allow him to speak. Come Holy Spirit. Increase. Increase.。
There's a few impressions here. Just keep your heads bowed, your eyes closed. But often。
in atmospheres like this, when so much life is being breathed into a gathering or breathed。
into people, you could feel, I felt life was palpable during worship on the front end.。
That often what the adversary does is start stirring up death again. It just really feel。
like there's people that are in the gathering and I don't like these types of words, but。
thoughts of suicidal ideation, suicidal planning, maybe even self-harm. Specifically, if you're。
from a military background. In praying that quote about you're either a soldier or you're。
AWOL, and I just thought, man, you're either in the military or come from a military family,。
but your life is, it's not you just psychologically struggling with suicide. It's a spirit of。
death assigned to you. And so Father, right now, for those that are in the room, Lord,。
what we just asked, we break that in the name and authority of Jesus. Lord, that assignment。
of death actually reveals your assignment of life. And so Lord, we speak life over their。
mind, life over their bodies, life over their family lines. Lord, I just pray right now。
for generational healing for military families. Lord, I pray anywhere where we feel like the。
word commander almost does something to us, a bracelet that they would feel the loving。
touch of a father right now in the room. Holy Spirit, it's your assignment to shed the love。
of the Father abroad in hearts. And so to just put a demand on you and your word right。
now to do that. Comfort, comfort my people says your God, Holy Spirit, come and comfort。
them.。
Two other invitations that we'll just kind of go into response. And these feel a bit。
more corporate, but, um, just as we're talking about stepping into the season and seeing。
the moment, seeing what God is up to setting a bar, there's two people in the room, just。
holistically, I feel as I was praying for you guys, one, you need, uh, there's, you。
want to step into the new thing that God is doing the new season, but you're carrying。
the dust from the past. Jesus would tell us disciples in a place that you were rejected,。
shake the dust off your feet. And the worst thing that we often do in the body of Christ。
is God invites us to something new, but we bring in and we track in that place with dirty。
feet. And I just feel like the Lord wants to shake the dust off of a previous season。
off of you. It could be your vocation, like you're changing jobs. It could be a relationship。
you were in that was painful. It could be like a church. Something's happened in the。
church and you're in a new season, but like, it's the pain of that previous season, but。
it's just time to shake the dust off, get that residue off.。
And the next one is, I just felt like seeing people who wanted to step in, but you've got。
a bit of hesitation in you, a stutter step. It's like when a professional athletes has。
knee surgery and they're getting back in the game and they just don't pivot quite as well.。
There was a time in your life in your early teen years where you were all in, and then。
man, you just kind of got disappointed and you feel the invitation to get back all the。
way in. Like, you know, it's there, but there's a stutter step to you. There's this hesitation,。
like you're serving, but you're not there fully. You're guarding yourself. You're guarding。
that injury. You're guarding that place. I just believe that God wants to heal that place.。
So if you're in the room and you're one of those two categories, you need to shake the。
dust off from a previous season, or maybe there's a sense of hesitation over you. Would。
you just be bold enough to be willing to stand? Just if you're in the room, that's you that。
would identify the season you're in. Amen. Then man, I need to shake the dust off of。
me to step into this new thing that God wants to do. Or man, I need to get this sense of。
hesitation off of me, step in fully. Yes, people all over the room. Father, thank you.。
You're already clean because the Word was spoken over you. So Father, right now we welcome。
the gentle washing of your Word. Lord, I pray that you would wash rejection off, disappointment。
off. Lord, I just pray right now a shaking off of any kind of staleness from a previous。
season, kind of crustiness come off in Jesus' name. Lord, I pray a freshness in their walk。
with you. Lord, I pray a freshness in their encounter with you. Lord, make it real and。
make it new once again. It says you put a new song in my mouth, and Lord, I pray you。
would take a familiar song out of their mouth and put a new song in their mouth. Lord, for。
every injury that's in the room, internally and externally, Lord, we just ask for healing.。
Lord, I pray that this would be a room and this would be a people that step fully into。
the season you are, not without limitation, not without hesitation, Lord, fully in. Lord,。
if you're looking for a people to offer themselves fully, Lord, I pray there would be an unhindered。
offering on the altar to your name. Father, I pray that Isaiah 11 speaks about the spirit。
of wisdom, understanding, counsel, and might. Lord, I pray over this room collectively a。
spirit of might over the room, not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, and your spirit。
comes with might. And so, Lord, I ask that there be an impartation on this gathering,。
on this house of might to step fully into everything you are doing in this day and in。
this time, that we would see a radical shift, that we would see a radical reversal in our。
day and age. In Jesus' name, amen.。
I'd like to invite everyone to stand. I want to go into a time of ministry, a time of worship.。
We've got prayer people up at the front. If there's an area of your life you need to surrender。
something to Jesus, there's been an area you've been holding something back, I think he's。
just offering and inviting you for a wholehearted devotion tonight. If there's an area that。
they could pray for you, we could pray for you. We'd love to do that, but I just want。
to say, do not leave the room carrying something God intended to leave at this place. So, Lord,。
we just offer you this worship. We offer you worship not just with our words, but with。
our lives. We just bless you. We honor you, Jesus. You're worthy. In Jesus' name, amen.。
